
                               1 of 187 DOCUMENTS

                         St. Petersburg Times (Florida)

                 March 23, 1996, Saturday, 2 Late Tampa Edition

Benefits for illegal aliens defended

BYLINE: REENA SHAH STAMETS

SECTION: TAMPA & STATE; Pg. 3B

LENGTH: 391 words

DATELINE: TAMPA



After California voters said yes to Proposition 187 - a ballot initiative
banning illegal immigrants from getting public aid - in 1994, two copycat
signature campaigns sprouted in Florida.

On Friday, several representatives from Hispanic organizations and migrant
worker groups met at the University of South Florida's College of Public  Health
to form a statewide campaign against these movements.

"We're approaching this as a public health issue, as an issue for the  public
good," said Alayne Unterberger, a public health program coordinator at  USF.
"Diseases don't care if you're black or white or Hispanic, or if you're  legal
or illegal."

Margarita Romo, who has long organized farmworkers in Dade City, said  public
sentiment against immigrants has risen so much that it is even  affecting some
American citizens - the U.S.-born children of migrant workers.

In Pasco County, she said, illegal immigrant parents applying for food  stamps
on behalf of their citizen children have been reported to immigration
authorities by welfare officials.

"Somebody has to speak for the children," Romo said. "Because no matter  if
their parents are illegal, they should have the full rights of any American
child to eat."

The group decided to fight against racial prejudice, overturn  anti-immigrant
legislation and educate people about the health care risks of  excluding illegal
aliens from health services.

The two Florida groups promoting Proposition 187 have yet to place their
petitions formally on the 1996 ballot. The Orlando-based Save Our State group
has claimed it has collected the 43,000 signatures necessary to get the
judicial nod to put a petition on a ballot. The other, group, Boca Raton-based
FLA-187 Committee, says it will have those signatures counted by early next
month.

At the meeting, a representative of Gov. Lawton Chiles said however needy
illegal immigrants may be, they cost Florida millions in health care and  public
education. He was shouted down by some of the group's members. Chiles  has
claimed in a 1994 report and an unsuccessful lawsuit against the federal
government that Florida's 350,000 illegal immigrants cost the state  $
884-million a year.  For information

For information about the organization, contact Alayne Unterberger at  974-6703.

LOAD-DATE: March 25, 1996

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DISTRIBUTION: TAMPA & STATE; CITY & STATE; METRO & STATE

                    Copyright 1996 Times Publishing Company


                               2 of 187 DOCUMENTS

                         St. Petersburg Times (Florida)

                    February 8, 1992, Saturday, City Edition

Bush signs jobless benefits extension

SECTION: NATIONAL; NATIONAL DIGEST; Pg. 4A

LENGTH: 475 words

DATELINE: WASHINGTON; ATLANTA; PASADENA, Calif.; STANFORD, Calif.



President Bush signed legislation late Friday to extend unemployment benefits by
13 weeks, a measure Congress rushed to him earlier in the week to help 2-million
jobless Americans including 600,000 whose benefits would otherwise run out this
month. Asked about the fact that he had twice killed unemployment benefits bills
after Congress passed them last year, he replied: "I said I want to do it, but I
want to do it within the budget agreement." The legislation he signed Friday
meets that condition, he said.
 Peach packer fined for smuggling aliens
 ATLANTA Federal immigration officials Friday levied a record $ 1.1-million fine
against a peach packing company where four employees have been convicted of
running an illegal alien smuggling operation. The fine against Lane Packing Co.,
one of Georgia's largest peach harvesters and packagers, is the largest civil
fine ever levied by the U.S. Immigration and Naturalization Service (INS), the
agency said. INS officials in Atlanta said Lane employees, for at least two
years, smuggled about 250 alien workers each month into its own orchards in
Georgia and to other harvesters in Florida and North Carolina.
 Solar probe
 nears Jupiter
 PASADENA, Calif.  The Ulysses solar explorer spacecraft flew into Jupiter's
intense radiation belts Friday as the probe accelerated toward a close encounter
with the solar system's biggest planet. Ulysses, jointly operated by the
European Space Agency and the National Aeronautics and Space Administration, was
scheduled to make its closest approach to Jupiter at 1:02 a.m. today, flying
within 235,000 miles of the planet's cloud tops. The spacecraft was about
416-million miles from Earth Friday, speeding at about 50,000 mph. Jupiter's
gravity will make Ulysses fly southward out of the plane in which the planets
orbit the sun. That will put Ulysses in position to accomplish its goal:
observing the sun's south polar regions during June-September 1994 and north
polar latitudes in 1995.
 First volume of King papers unveiled
 STANFORD, Calif.  The first volume of the Rev. Martin Luther King Jr.'s
writings, unveiled Thursday after six years of intense research, shows the civil
rights leader overcame an early hatred of whites. It includes letters, school
papers and essays covering the years from King's birth in 1929 through 1951.
King, who grew up in a close-knit religious community in Atlanta, wrote that he
first experienced racism at age 6 when he and a white friend had to go to
separate schools and could no longer play together. "I was greatly shocked, and
from that moment on I was determined to hate every white person," King wrote at
age 21 in a college essay. "I did not conquer this anti-white feeling until I
entered college and came in contact with white students through working in
interracial organizations."

LOAD-DATE: November 4, 1992

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: DIGEST

                            Times Publishing Company


                               3 of 187 DOCUMENTS

                         St. Petersburg Times (Florida)

                     November 9, 1992, Monday, City Edition

Down on the farm

SECTION: EDITORIAL; EDITORIALS; Pg. 12A

LENGTH: 618 words



Farm workers are no better off than they were six years ago, according to a  new
federal report previewed by the New York Times. The Commission on  Agricultural
Workers, an 11-member body appointed to study the impact of the  1986
Immigration Reform and Control Act, found that illegal immigrants are  still
pouring into the United States where they continue to be exploited by  the
farming industry.

  Three-million illegal farm workers were granted amnesty under the 1986  law.
The government's goal was to reduce illegal immigration and establish  better
working conditions at the same time. While illegal workers had been  brutality
exploited by growers and crew bosses, workers with nothing to fear  from
immigration authorities could stand up for their rights, the government
reasoned. Agribusiness would be forced to upgrade conditions or risk losing  its
work force to better jobs.

  It hasn't happened that way. An estimated 1.2-million illegal workers  were
caught crossing the border from Mexico during the 1992 fiscal year, and  many
will seek work in the fields, where proficiency in English is not  required.
Counterfeit documents are easy to get and readily accepted by  potential
employers. Working conditions are still substandard, but there is no  shortage
of desperate Central American refugees who won't complain about  pesticide
exposure or the absence of sanitary facilities, unemployment  insurance and
workers' compensation.

  Growers who opposed the 1986 immigration reforms complained that newly
legalized workers would seek better jobs, leaving them short-handed at harvest
time. Instead, the commission found, most legalized migrants have remained in
the fields. Now their situation is even worse because they face competition  for
the same old jobs from new illegals who place no demands on employers.

  The commission is proposing to break the cycle by enforcing immigration  laws
more tightly, abolishing a foreign worker recruitment program and making
agribusiness a safer, more attractive industry. Employers would no longer be
exempted from providing standard benefits, including overtime pay. Crew bosses
would be strictly regulated, and the farmers who contract with them would be
legally liable if workers were abused. Another proposal would give the  children
of farm workers better access to schools and health care.

  There are questions surrounding the immigration control proposals,  especially
one that might require farm workers to carry special documents. In  contrast,
the proposals that address working conditions are remarkable only  for their
newness. It is well past time to bring agricultural work up to the  minimum
standards that must be maintained by other American industries.

  Passing new regulations is just an empty gesture, however, unless more
resources are devoted to enforcing those protections already guaranteed by  law.
Federal and state agricultural bureaucracies are so understaffed that  even the
most basic field and housing conditions cannot be properly monitored.  How many
other industries would routinely expose their workers to potentially  fatal
chemicals, or fail to provide toilets and fresh drinking water - with no
concern for legal consequences?

  The Commission on Agricultural Workers was originally appointed to  appease
growers; more than half of its members belong to the agribusiness
establishment. Despite their own monetary interests, they produced a sharp
critique of current conditions and strong proposals for further reform. In
other words, it is obvious that many farm workers continue to face truly dire
circumstances.

LOAD-DATE: November 16, 1992

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: EDITORIAL

                            Times Publishing Company


                               4 of 187 DOCUMENTS

                         St. Petersburg Times (Florida)

                    January 13, 1996, Saturday, City Edition

U.S. strengthens patrol of border with Mexico

SOURCE: Compiled from Times Wires

SECTION: NATIONAL; IN BRIEF; Pg. 3A

LENGTH: 363 words

DATELINE: WASHINGTON; NEW YORK; LOS ANGELES; ALVORD, Texas



Just one week after Congress increased its budget by 24 percent, the
Immigration and Naturalization Service said Friday that it was beefing up
enforcement along the Southwestern border to prevent any increase in illegal
immigration that might be caused by Mexico's severe economic problems.

Local law-enforcement agencies will help the Border Patrol, and the armed
forces will continue providing assistance, officials said.

Attorney General Janet Reno said the immigration service was sending 200  Border
Patrol agents and 100 additional inspectors and investigators to  California and
Arizona. About 2,200 agents now patrol that section of the  border.

Doris Meissner, the commissioner of immigration and naturalization, said
Mexico's economic crisis, including the devaluation of the peso, "definitely  is
creating migration pressures."

Elsewhere

   NEW YORK - A jury will have to decide whether Richard Owens, who knew he  was
infected with the AIDS virus, answered honestly when he told Berkshire  Life
Insurance Co. in 1992 that he believed he was in good health. A judge  Thursday
sent the case to trial. Berkshire wanted to void Owens' coverage for  misleading
the insurer. Owens, in a countersuit, argued that testing positive  for HIV is
not synonymous with AIDS or certain death.

LOS ANGELES - A backlash against O.J. Simpson grew Friday as some TV  stations
refused to air an ad for a video in which the ex-football star talks  about his
double-murder trial. Other stations have called for a boycott of the  video,
O.J. Simpson: The Interview; its producers, in turn, threatened to sue  anyone
interfering with efforts to take mail orders. Simpson, acquitted on  Oct. 3 of
murdering his ex-wife Nicole Brown Simpson and her friend Ronald  Goldman,
declined to give testimony at his trial.

ALVORD, Texas - A woman's eardrums were severely damaged and her face and  hands
burned Friday by a package that exploded after it was delivered to her  home.
Police later issued a warrant for former boyfriend Roger Eugene Gresham,  50.
Sheryl Taylor, who is in her 30s, was listed in critical condition Friday
night.

LOAD-DATE: January 15, 1996

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: DIGEST

                    Copyright 1996 Times Publishing Company


                               5 of 187 DOCUMENTS

                         St. Petersburg Times (Florida)

               March 9, 1996, Saturday, 0 South Pinellas Edition

Reform immigration fairly

SECTION: EDITORIAL; EDITORIALS; Pg. 14A

LENGTH: 840 words



Some offspring of immigrants who entered the American Dream through Ellis
Island - the main port of entry from 1892-1924 for some 16-million newly
arrived, prospective U.S. citizens - are part of the chorus demanding tough
action to curb the flow of immigrants into this country. Our national
immigration policies are overdue for reform, but many of the proposed changes
are confusing, counterproductive, selfish and short-sighted.

For example, some advocates are purposely confusing the issues of legal and
illegal immigration, proposing harsh penalties for immigrants and would-be
immigrants who have followed our rules. Other bad ideas would create new
burdens for states and cities left to compensate for federal cutbacks. Yet
others would make it much more difficult for genuine political refugees to  find
haven in the United States. Meanwhile, some much-needed reforms, such as
stiffer penalties for American businesses that knowingly profit from the labor
of illegal immigrants, are being ignored.

Congress and President Clinton still have a chance to salvage some positive
immigration reforms, but the proposals now on the table require serious review
and revision. The bipartisan Commission on Immigration Reform headed by  Barbara
Jordan, the late congresswoman from Texas, laid the groundwork for  many of the
proposals before Congress. One of the most controversial calls for  a
computerized registry using Social Security numbers for employers to verify
worker eligibility and detect undocumented aliens. That proposal already has
encountered strong resistance from the American Civil Liberties Union and  other
groups.

The immigration policy overhaul is being led by House Republicans. Sensing  that
public opinion is on their side, they are taking their cue from  California's
success in passing Proposition 187, the ballot initiative that  would deny all
benefits to illegal aliens. House Republicans want to go much  further and bar
even legal immigrants from dozens of federal assistance  programs.

"People should not expect to come to this country with their hands out to
receive benefits paid for by taxpaying Americans," said Rep. Bill Archer, the
Texas Republican who heads the House Ways and Means Committee, expressing a
popular resentment GOP presidential candidate Pat Buchanan has tapped.

In addition to reducing the current level of about 800,000 legal immigrants  per
year to 500,000, the Republican proposal would kill eligibility for vital
programs such as health care, job training, college loans, school lunches,  cash
payments under Aid to Families with Dependent Children and the  Supplemental
Security Income program.

As Florida knows too well, the cost of absorbing new immigrants, legal and
illegal, can be staggering. But the impact is not all on the deficit side of
the public ledger. Many immigrants become hard-working taxpayers who  contribute
to the cultural and economic vitality of America. And while the  stereotypical
immigrant is an agricultural or domestic worker, huge numbers of  technically
and professionally trained immigrants are coveted by industry.

This is terribly short-sighted. Many of the proposed cost-cutting remedies,
such as denying health care to children of illegal workers, will cost  taxpayers
more in the long run. Does it make sense to deny education  opportunities to the
children of immigrants?

Some of the other proposals under consideration would:

 Make it difficult for foreigners to gain political asylum and place a  ceiling
of 50,000 on the number of refugees admitted each year - about half  the number
admitted annually in the last five years.

 Sharply increase the financial requirements for an American citizen to  sponsor
an immigrant.

 Eliminate some significant categories of immigrants with automatic entry  into
the United States, including brothers and sisters of legal residents and
children over the age of 21.

Rewriting our immigration laws is serious business, and it should be done  with
great care and precision.

Lawmakers already have yielded to powerful interest groups with a stake in  the
outcome. House Republican leaders last week caved in to pressure from  business
interests and dropped a proposal that would have forced state  employers to
verify the work status of new hires. Earlier, bowing to farming  interests, the
House Agriculture Committee approved an amendment that would  grant temporary
work visas to up to 250,000 foreign farm workers, even though  critics say it
would only encourage a flood of illegal immigrants.

This country has a right to set reasonable limits on immigration and to  revise
its preferences. The president and congressional leaders should rise  above
political fashion this election year and focus on changes that are fair  and in
the national interest. Whatever changes Washington makes, they should  not chill
this nation's tradition of welcoming immigrants and refugees to its  shores.

LOAD-DATE: March 11, 1996

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: EDITORIAL

                    Copyright 1996 Times Publishing Company


                               6 of 187 DOCUMENTS

                         St. Petersburg Times (Florida)

                 May 5, 1996, Sunday, 0 South Pinellas Edition

Senate passes bill to fight illegal immigration to U.S.

SECTION: NATIONAL; KEY VOTES IN CONGRESS; Pg. 6A

LENGTH: 357 words



Following weeks of often emotional and divisive debate, the Senate on  Thursday
overwhelmingly approved legislation that would strengthen border  patrols and
impose new restrictions on illegal immigrants living and working  in the United
States.

The 97-3 vote followed numerous compromises that gave the bill bipartisan
appeal. The final measure makes no change in current legal immigration quotas,
but seeks to attack the problem of illegal immigration by augmenting border
patrols, hiring more immigration officers and expediting the deportation
process.

Three Democrats voted against the bill: Russell D. Feingold of Wisconsin,  Bob
Graham of Florida and Paul Simon of Illinois.

The Senate bill must now be reconciled with a House version that contains a
controversial provision that would allow states to expel the children of
illegal immigrants from public schools.

Voting to pass the bill to curb illegal immigration: Mack (R).

Voting against: Graham (D).

   EXPANDED IMMIGRATION CHECKS: The Senate on Wednesday endorsed the creation
of an immigration program that would require employers to verify the  identities
of prospective employees.

A bipartisan block of senators led by Republican Spencer Abraham of  Michigan
and Democrat Russell D. Feingold of Wisconsin tried to eliminate the  program,
but the Senate voted 54-46 to table their move.

Voting to establish worker identification program: None.

Voting against: Graham (D), Mack (R).  STATE DEPARTMENT BILL: The House on
Tuesday failed to override President  Clinton's veto of a bill to trim the
nation's foreign affairs bureaucracy. The  vote to override was 234-188, 48
votes short of two-thirds.

Clinton vetoed the measure April 12 on the grounds that the bill's cuts in
funding for the State Department and other foreign affairs agencies were too
drastic.

Voting to override State Department reorganization veto: Bilirakis (R),  Canady
(R), Fowler (R), Goss (R), McCollum (R), Mica (R), Miller (R),  Ros-Lehtinen
(R), Scarborough (R), Stearns (R), Weldon (R), Young (R).

Voting against: Brown (D), Gibbons (D).

LOAD-DATE: May 8, 1996

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                    Copyright 1996 Times Publishing Company


                               7 of 187 DOCUMENTS

                         St. Petersburg Times (Florida)

                      June 30, 1989, Friday, City Edition

No Big Brother solutions, please

SECTION: EDITORIAL; Editorials; Pg. 16A

LENGTH: 528 words



The Immigration Reform and Control Act of 1986 was supposed to make    it so
hard for illegal immigrants to find work in the United States    that they would
stop trying. Employers must demand documentation, and    the job-seeker who
can't show a photographic ID card such as a driver's    license as well as a
Social Security card, birth certificate or    immigration permit will probably
be out of luck.

     There is evidence, however, that this may be more of a nuisance for
citizens than a deterrent to border-crossers. In recent surveys    conducted by
the Center for U.S.-Mexican Studies, 63 percent of    Mexicans who had been in
the United States illegally said it was still    possible to find work and 31
percent said forged documents are    available to help them evade the law. There
are still unscrupulous    employers to whom the profits from exploiting illegal
aliens are well    worth the risk of a $ 2,000 per worker fine for knowingly
hiring them.

     This is the background for the modest proposal that the    commissioner of
immigration and naturalization, Alan C. Nelson,    expressed last week. He
called for a nationwide computer system to    verify the validity of documents
that job applicants submit to their    prospective employers. Nelson said it
would work "just like the    systems used in stores to check your credit cards."


     Nelson resigned Monday, and it would be a good thing if his Big    Brother
scheme went with him. That's not likely, though, since the    entire Immigration
and Naturalization Service bureaucracy that spawned    it remains in place. In
any case, Nelson's departure appears to have    had more to do with a critical
management audit than with his    insensitivity to fundamental civil rights.

     Illegal immigration is not the worst thing that can happen to a    H
country. An infinitely more dangerous circumstance would be the    creation of a
federal bureaucracy to say in advance whether an American    citizen may have a
job or not. That is the premise of the Nelson    proposal even if it
superficially entails only a yes or no response to    the validity of a Social
Security number. From that beginning, it would    be a short easy step to
establishing a national data bank that details    a person's entire job history
at the request of any government snoop.

     Nelson's analogy to credit cards was totally misplaced. One doesn't    have
to acquire or use a credit card, but for most people there is no    alternative
to getting and holding a job. And while improper credit    card charges may
never be recovered, no lasting damage is done by    giving a job to someone who
isn't entitled to have it.

     There are plenty of tactics available to the government that do not
infringe on civil rights, such as the vigorous prosecution of document
forgers and employers who wink at the law. Attorney General Dick    Thornburgh
should satisfy himself that the next immigration    commissioner won't be such a
patsy for Big Brother solutions.


LOAD-DATE: November 9, 1992

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: EDITORIAL

                            Times Publishing Company


                               8 of 187 DOCUMENTS

                         St. Petersburg Times (Florida)

                   December 14, 1989, Thursday, City Edition

Company hit with big immigration fine

SECTION: NATIONAL; NATIONAL DIGEST; Pg. 5A

LENGTH: 457 words

DATELINE: WASHINGTON; CAPE CANAVERAL; HUNTSVILLE, Texas



WASHINGTON - Immigration officials levied a record $ 580,000 fine    Wednesday
against a South Carolina pillow factory accused of hiring    more than 100
illegal aliens, including a 12-year-old boy. Working    conditions for three
Mexican boys "almost bordered on bondage when you    look at the age of these
people," said Thomas P. Fischer, head of the    Immigration and Naturalization
Service office in Atlanta. "They were    being paid in cash; there was no
documentation." The illegal aliens    were found working at the Piedmont
Quilting Corp. in Walhalla, S.C.,    during a July 17 raid. The company had no
comment on the fine, which it    has 30 days to contest. There are also criminal
charges pending against    the company.



 NASA pushes back    'Columbia' launch

 CAPE CANAVERAL - NASA said Wednesday it has delayed the pre-Christmas    launch
of space shuttle Columbia at least two days because of lagging    work at the
launch pad. "They're still assessing a new date, but it    appears (Wednesday)
is now the earliest," said Karl Kristofferson, a    space agency spokesman.
Shuttle managers were expected to select a firm    date later this week.



 U.S. to compensate    jetliner victims

 WASHINGTON - The United States said Wednesday it expects to make
compensation payments soon to the families of some non-Iranians killed    when
an American warship shot down an Iranian jetliner last year.    "With respect to
the non-Iranian nationals, we expect to make some    payments to families in the
near future," the State Department said.

 It gave no details. U.S. officials have said previously they offered to    pay
$ 250,000 per full-time wage-earning victim and $ 100,000 each for    all other
victims of the incident. Iran has rejected the offer and    filed suit in the
World Court.



 Court throws out    murder conviction

 HUNTSVILLE, Texas - A Texas appeals court set aside the conviction of    death
row inmate Clarence Lee Brandley Wednesday, more than two years    after a judge
ruled the black man was unfairly tried in the slaying of    a white teen-ager.
"This will make this Christmas as bright as can be.

 It was worth the wait," said Brandley, 38. The appellate court said    Brandley
did not get a fair trial when a jury convicted him of the 1980    strangulation
and rape of a teen-ager at Conroe High School, where    Brandley was a janitor.
Brandley was ordered released into the custody    of the Montgomery County
sheriff for a possible new trial. Prosecutors    could not be reached to
determine if they will pursue a new trial.



LOAD-DATE: November 10, 1992

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: DIGEST

                            Times Publishing Company


                               9 of 187 DOCUMENTS

                         St. Petersburg Times (Florida)

                     January 22, 1993, Friday, City Edition

Opposition growing to Baird's approval as attorney general

BYLINE: KARL VICK; DAVID DAHL

SECTION: NATIONAL; Pg. 15A

LENGTH: 819 words

DATELINE: WASHINGTON



The confirmation of Zoe Baird as U.S. attorney general is still up in the  air,
and the longer it stays there the more likely it will land with a crash.

President Clinton on Thursday put out the word he stood by his choice. And
Baird declined to withdraw, repeatedly insisting she has "the potential to be  a
great attorney general."

But opposition grew both inside and outside the Senate, as calls continued  to
pour into senators' offices from people outraged at the prospect of a chief  law
enforcement officer who admitted to breaking the law.

"They're hard, unforgiving calls - from women mostly," said Sen. Alan  Simpson,
R-Wyo. "One woman said, "If I'd had 500,000 bucks I'd hire Lady Di  to take care
of my kids.' "

Baird, who did make half a million dollars last year, is under fire for  hiring
an undocumented Peruvian woman to care for her 8-month-old son. The  woman's
husband, also an illegal alien, was hired as a part-time driver.

Baird admitted she knew the hiring was a violation of immigration law and
admitted failing to pay the couple's Social Security taxes.

Baird has since paid the taxes, as well as a $ 2,900 fine imposed by the
Immigration and Naturalization Service - an agency that would be under her
jurisdiction at the Justice Department.

"We believe this incident raises serious questions about whether Ms. Baird  is
the appropriate person to head the department," said a letter signed by  six GOP
congresswomen and the only Republican woman in the Senate, Nancy  Kassebaum of
Kansas.

The letter was released early Tuesday. By that afternoon it was clear that  what
Baird supporters hoped would be an unfortunate incident - illustrating  the
tensions faced by working mothers - was sizing up as the first controversy  of
the Clinton presidency.

By afternoon, Senate Minority Leader Bob Dole, R-Kan., was sending  questions to
Judiciary Committee Republicans to keep up the pressure on Baird.  Two GOP
members announced they will "with regret" vote against her.

Five Democratic senators who are not on the committee also urged Baird to
withdraw.

"Although not excusable, it seems to me to that it is explainable,"  Judiciary
chairman Joe Biden, D-Del., told Baird, recalling his own days as a  working
father. "You did what you did, it's wrong, but it's a civil  violation. It's a
violation that took place in the context of a woman in her  mid-30s in a jobthat
most men don't get if they ever get it till they're in  their mid-50s. And with
an 8-month-old baby."

What Baird did was advertise for a nanny for her son Julian. Her last  live-in
babysitter had quit on short notice, and Baird was about to start a  job as
general counsel of Aetna Life and Casualty.

An employment agency put Baird in touch with the Peruvian couple, whose  names
have been kept confidential. The woman had "enough experience with  children to
know what the unstated signals meant," as Baird put it. Her  husband could drive
Baird to work.

Baird testified she knew neither immigrant had a green card but left to  her
husband whether they could hire them regardless. Her husband, Paul  Gewirtz, is
a Potter Stewart professor of constitutional law at Yale. He is  expected to
testify today.

"I don't mean to cast aspersions, but you have a very qualified husband  who's a
leading constitutional lawyer, and maybe you're all absent-minded  professors,"
Biden said.

Working women say that won't fly.

"We all know what the rules are," said Alex Sink, a mother of two who is
executive vice president of the NationsBank in Tampa. "We all know what the
right thing to do is."

Sink called the Baird episode "a blatant abuse of the law."

Senate confirms most of Cabinet: The Senate on Thursday approved  severalmembers
of President Clinton's Cabinet, including Florida's Carol  Browner.

The Senate approved: former Democratic National Chairman Ronald H. Brown,
commerce; former Rep. Mike Espy, D-Miss., agriculture; Harvard professor  Robert
B. Reich, labor; University of Wisconsin Chancellor Donna E. Shalala,  health
and human services; former San Antonio Mayor Henry Cisneros, housing  and urban
development; power company executive Hazel R. O'Leary, energy;  former South
Carolina Gov. Richard W. Riley, education; disabled veterans  advocate Jesse
Brown, veterans affairs; former Denver Mayor Federico Pena,  transportation; and
former Arizona Gov. Bruce Babbit, interior.

Others confirmed were: Browner, Environmental Protection Agency; former  Rep.
Leon E. Panetta, D-Calif., director of the Office of Management and  Budget
(OMB); former Congressional Budget Office director Alice Rivlin, deputy  OMB
director; Los Angeles lawyer Mickey Kantor, special trade representative;
investment banker Roger C. Altman, deputy secretary of treasury.

- Material from the Washington Post was used in this report.

LOAD-DATE: January 27, 1993

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                            Times Publishing Company


                              10 of 187 DOCUMENTS

                         St. Petersburg Times (Florida)

                     February 1, 1993, Monday, City Edition

U.S. cannot afford to be the world's 'welfare agency'

SECTION: EDITORIAL; LETTERS; Pg. 13A

LENGTH: 2271 words



Now that President Clinton is considering what his immigration policy should
be, it behooves all citizens to take a long, hard look at the present illegal
immigrant situation and its impact on our society and the country's economy.
This is a growing problem not only for Florida, Texas, California and New  York;
it is a growing problem for all communities of our nation, and  particularly the
larger ones.

It is estimated that at least 6-million people have entered the United  States
illegally just in the past few years. More millions will come in this  year. (In
1986 Congress granted amnesty to all illegals who had managed to  avoid
detection for five years.) Very, very few of these numbers can properly  claim
that they are political refugees. Nearly all are poor people trying to  escape
the living conditions of their native country. Many carry the AIDS  virus; many
are criminals and drug pushers or addicts. Nearly all are  immediately added to
our overburdened welfare system. Those who do find work -  like the employees of
Zoe Baird - take jobs that would otherwise be available  to the most
underemployed group of our own citizens. A Rice University  professor reports
that illegal aliens probably double the jobless rate of  working Americans.

Our hospitals, by law, must provide free medical care for these people; our
schools must provide free education - often bilingual education - for their
children, and new schools for their increasing number. In our crowded jails,
according to the U.S. General Accounting Office, 20 percent of all state and
federal prisoners are illegal aliens. Immigration experts estimate illegal
aliens cost U.S. taxpayers as much as $ 35-billion annually for public housing
and these other services.

It is easy to understand and to sympathize with the desire of these people  to
better their way of life. As for the "political refugees" - if they are  all
permitted to come to this country, who remains behind to help correct the
conditions they are fleeing? Just as we cannot afford to be the world's
policeman, so we cannot afford to be the world's welfare agency. Immigration
has been good for this country in the past; controlled immigration with
reasonable quotas can help us again. But we must regain control of our borders
or the American dream and the American way of life will cease to exist, not
only for our citizens but, as well, for those who come to our shores hoping  for
something better than what they have left.

The president and our representatives in Congress need to be informed of  our
views on this situation.

Raymond P. Warrell, St. Petersburg

  Re: Turmoil in Haiti, by Marlene Sokol, Jan. 24.

I'm sure that the story is factual, but the real tragedy lies in the fact  that
if the United States accepts Haitian citizens as political refugees en  masse,
and if a large percentage of these refugees choose to make their home  or
permanent residence in Florida, how will this state absorb them all -
particularly in view of the fact that the majority of these unfortunate people
are unskilled laborers who are both homeless and penniless to boot?

The statement by Jean-Claude Bajeux, a human rights leader in  Port-au-Prince,
that "7-million Haitian people (Haiti's entire population)  have a right to
political asylum" is frightening, particularly if the  majority desire to take
asylum in the United States.

Their next-door neighbor, the Dominican Republic, has all but closed its
borders to its Haitian neighbors, and Cuba and Jamaica are dragging their feet
on admitting additional numbers of refugees, so in the Haitians' mind,
everything now seems to depend on the United States admitting them. And at the
present time, with a new administration and a marginal recovery from the
recession of the last four years, plus trouble in other parts of the globe,
perhaps the Haitian situation can best be handled by the United Nations rather
than placing the entire political burden on the United States.

While the average American is totally sympathetic to the plight of the
Haitians, if they are allowed into the United States en masse, it could cause
chaotic conditions, particularly in southern Florida, and perhaps set a
precedent for other nationalities seeking political asylum in the future.

If it were ever to be put to a vote in Florida whether or not to open the
floodgates to political refugees, considering the current circumstances of the
economy, joblessness, homelessness, medical coverage, stretched budgets, etc.,
I wonder how the average American citizen would vote.

G. MacDonald, Largo

When are you going to stop pleading the case of the Haitians and start
publishing much needed and unbiased articles about the needy and homeless in
this country? That pathetic picture on the front page of the Jan. 24 paper
turned my stomach. But then pictures of the homeless are poor copy and don't
sell papers.

I was a correspondent in the Army in 1942 and learned that sensationalism  sells
- no matter. Since you are a bleeding heart for the Haitians, donate  enough
money - not news - to supporting these aliens, give them free health  care,
educate them, put them on welfare - then house them in your  neighborhood. But
don't expect me to pay for them.

W. E. Carroll, St. Petersburg

Respectable run, except . . .

Re: Reagan and Bush had a respectable 12-year run, by David S. Broder, Jan.  17.
It was a respectable run except for one thing, but that exception,  Reaganomics,
was a doozy!

Reaganomics was a huge success for the richest 1 percent of Americans, but  was
a disaster for the other 99 percent. The net worth of the richest 1  percent
tripled during the last 12 years, while our industries died and  millions of
Americans became underemployed.

Reaganomics cut the top tax rate from 70 percent to 28 percent and the  larger
take-home pay was supposed to induce the rich to invest in new stock to  provide
capital for starting or improving our industries. It didn't happen!  The rich
invested in old stock, including takeovers, causing the Dow Jones  Industrial
Average to triple (isn't it interesting that the wealth of the rich  increased
at about the same rate as the Dow?).

Of course, buying old stock (which Ross Perot called "a dice throw on Wall
Street") doesn't provide money for improving our industries any more than  does
buying baseball cards.

Jack Gregg, Largo

  Re: David Broder's Reagan and Bush had a respectable 12-year run, Jan.  17.

I look in the mirror and turn red when I remember voting for them both -  but
not the last election.

Chas. S. Ulbinsky, Palm Harbor

Back to basics

  Why is the public school system so expensive? It is something that most
people accept without question. But I've taken the time to explore the
situation.

First, the public schools were designed so that children could learn simple
math, to read and write, commonly known as the basics. Our forefathers  realized
that it was necessary to learn to read and understand the Bible.  Through the
years many programs were added, until the system became the  monster of today.

Schools have ignored the basics, dwelling on sports and too many programs  that
should be learned outside of the system. Taxes are out of control because  of
this extra burden placed on society. The proof is that education is going
downhill. Kids can't read, spell or understand simple problems because schools
have ignored the purpose of it all - basics.

Public schools have gone too far with their ideas, well beyond the
responsibility of society. Mr. and Mrs. Taxpayer, you are being ripped off.

Robert W. Sturtz Sr., St. Petersburg

Tobacco costs

It's ironic that the two letters to the editor appeared the same day the
Associated Press reported that 800 randomly selected people were all found to
have by-products of nicotine in their blood, whether or not they were smokers.
Having lived 10 years in Richmond, Va., home of Philip Morris and thousands of
tobacco workers, I've seen a lot of letters like these.

The oft-repeated reasoning that smokers pay excessive taxes, and that the
government gleefully reaps this windfall, appears flawed when you consider the
costs of tobacco use. Do these taxes cover the cost of public health care for
smokers who develop any of the diseases caused by tobacco? Do they foot the
astronomical bill for research to treat and prevent diseases caused by an
addiction lovingly nurtured by the tobacco industry, which writes off its
gigantic advertising costs? Dr. Elizabeth Whelan wrote, "Smoking costs the
nation about $ 11-billion in direct medical expenses and $ 36-billion in lost
productivityeach year. Smokers pay only $ 7-billion annually in excise taxes,
however, and even with the tobacco industry's contributions$ 22-billion per
year - we still come up short."

And why do tobacco apologists always insist that we should rid ourselves of  all
other forms of pollution before we tackle second-hand smoke? At least cars
serve a purpose; tobacco addiction does not, unless you count the jobs it
provides to people who don't mind living off someone else's misery.

I count many smokers among my relatives and dearest friends. They are  largely a
considerate and responsible bunch. (You haven't experienced personal  risk until
you've ticked off a tobacco worker; one once threatened to beat me  up, while I
was holding my 10-month-old daughter, because I complained to a  cashier in a
store that this person, whom I was stuck next to in a line, had  lit up in
violation of local fire regulations.) I don't nag them. I don't  think less of
them for smoking, either; I'm only sorry that the tobacco  industry managed to
snare them at an early age and control them through an  expensive addiction
considered more powerful than that caused by heroin. If  hiking taxes and
enforcing public smoking restrictions nudge even a few people  in the direction
of getting help and kicking their addiction, it's worth it.

Those friends and relatives I mentioned? I've lost several of them to  horrible,
lingering, painful diseases like lung cancer and emphysema. While we  all have
to go sometime, these are not deaths anyone would willingly choose.

V. L. Dorrough, Palm Harbor

There is often a silver lining to a dark cloud (of cigarette smoke). For
example, take the Jan. 22 letter to the editor titled, Puffers pay. Imagine
what would happen if all the heavy smokers really did stop smoking. Look at  all
the people they would put out of work.

Hundreds of companies employ thousands of people to take care of old  smokers,
people who rent wheelchairs, hospital beds, respirators, breathing  machines and
deliver oxygen and personal care when you can't make it to the  bathroom on your
own. And don't overlook all the doctors and nurses and their  support personnel.

Your considerable tax contribution while smoking is acknowledged, but your  help
in keeping all these people employed at this time, when good steady jobs  are
hard to find, is particularly appreciated.

Frederick E. King, Pinellas Park

  Re: the smoker who believes he has the right to smoke in the presence of
non-smokers. Personally, I find it a criminal act to place my and other
innocent victims' health at risk. If smokers wish to smoke in their own homes,
away from non-smokers, it is their choice, but they do not have the right to
jeopardize my well-being.

In my opinion, second-hand smoke is a slow and cruel way to commit
manslaughter. What this person whose letter I read claims to spend on
cigarettes and tobacco does not begin to cover the financial and emotional
losses of this country because of the harmful effects of smoking.

Suzanne Dabroski, Clearwater

Shadow of doubt

Re: Senator heeds tip about tab, Jan. 12, about state Sen. John Grant  involving
a lobbyist paying for a Commerce Committee dinner. The last sentence  of the
article clearly describes one of the root causes of our nation's  salient social
ills and a debilitating ethical deficiency not uncommon at all  levels of
government. The last sentence reads, "And if there is a problem  with letting
lobbyists pick up the tab for a committee meeting, Grant suggests  the law
should be changed."

Contaminating the morals in our society is a bottom line philosophy, "you  can't
stop me from doing it, because there is no law against it." In recent  years the
moral and ethical problems surfacing from within our governmental  structures
have outraged the electorate. The influence of lobbyists and the  often
associated payoffs for legislative favors have been a major ingredient  of the
outrage. Under the circumstances, Grant revealed a lack of astuteness  failing
to recognize the implications of his attitude. He should have rejected  the
lobbyists' offer at the outset. To absolve himself of any wrongdoing by
declaring there is no law against it reveals a shameful "business as usual"
mentality. It is flagrantly contrary to his constituents' demands that  cleaning
up the act of politics is the indisputable order of the day. It casts  a heavy
shadow of doubt over his ethics-in-leadership qualifications for  chairing the
Commerce Committee.

William W. Fries, Bayonet Point

Share your opinions

Letters for publication should be addressed to Letters to the Editor, P.O.  Box
1121, St. Petersburg, FL. 33731.

LOAD-DATE: February 6, 1993

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: LETTER

                            Times Publishing Company


                              11 of 187 DOCUMENTS

                         St. Petersburg Times (Florida)

                     May 26, 1993, Wednesday, City Edition

Smuggling ship testing U.S. access

SOURCE: Compiled from Times Wires

SECTION: NATIONAL; THE NATION; Pg. 6A

LENGTH: 263 words

DATELINE: SAN FRANCISCO



Immigration officials say America's ability to control its borders is being
tested by an international smuggling operation responsible for sneaking a ship
into San Francisco Bay and dropping more than 180 Chinese near the Golden Gate
Bridge.

"They're feeling out the soft spots," said Joseph Brandon of the  Immigration
and Naturalization Service. "It's a very lucrative business. . .  . They are
trying to find the routes of least resistance."

David Ilchert of the INS said passengers who arrived Monday on the Pai  Chang
paid $ 1,000 down and were expected to pay a total of $ 20,000 for their
passage to America. That means the human cargo was worth more than  $
3.5-million to those who recruited and smuggled it in.

Officials arrested 184 passengers and said an unknown number of others got
away. Ten crew members also were arrested on suspicion of smugging illegal
aliens.

Thirty-five of the detainees said they were under 18, and Ilchert said  they
would be allowed to live with families in San Francisco if any offered to  pay
the $ 4,000 bond. The rest were distributed to two detention centers where  they
will be charged with illegally entering the United States.

The United States has seized seven ships with 1,599 Chinese aboard since
September 1992.

"Frankly, this is only the beginning," said INS spokesman Michael  Smirnoff. ".
. . We're estimating that at this rate there will be 13,000  undocumented
Chinese here by (December) 1993."  - Information from San Francisco Examiner and
Reuters was used in this report.

LOAD-DATE: May 27, 1993

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                            Times Publishing Company


                              12 of 187 DOCUMENTS

                         St. Petersburg Times (Florida)

                      June 3, 1993, Thursday, City Edition

Stowaways have not said where they came from

BYLINE: RICHARD DANIELSON

SECTION: TAMPA BAY AND STATE; Pg. 3B

LENGTH: 438 words

DATELINE: TAMPA



Four of the five West African stowaways rescued from a barge last week were
well on their way to recovery Wednesday, but they hadn't gotten any closer to
home.

The problem is that the men, who speak English and French with varying  degrees
of proficiency, have given inconsistent accounts about where they came  from,
according to a spokesman for the company that owns the barge.

"All they've really shared with us was that conditions were not at all  good in
the area where they came from," said Mike Mahoney, spokesman for TECO  Energy,
the parent company of Gulfcoast Transit.

"One of them talked about a civil war in Monrovia (the capital of  Liberia),"
Mahoney said, "and another talked about generally horrible  economic conditions
in that part of the world."

As a result, Gulfcoast Transit has called in the U.S. Immigration and
Naturalization Service to help find out the stowaways' nationalities. Federal
law requires the owner of the barge to feed, house and repatriate the
stowaways. Immigration officials often help companies in similar circumstances
contact foreign diplomats to arrange for the return of illegal aliens.

"It's not unusual, especially for stowaways or people with no documents,"  said
James Minton, officer in charge of the service's Tampa office.

Immigration officials had their first meeting Wednesday with the four  stowaways
released from Tampa General Hospital over the past week.

Based on the names the men gave after their rescue last Thursday morning,
hospital officials have tentatively identified them as Lock Johnson, 22;  Steven
Thompson, 25; Alpha Mamadow, 21; and Ali Sienne, whose age is not  known.

The fifth man, identified as Joseph Oford, remained in serious condition in
Tampa General's intensive care unit Wednesday.

Mahoney said Gulfcoast executives aren't sure those names are correct and  are
waiting to find out more from immigration officials.

The company is holding the stowaways in an undisclosed hotel, where Mahoney
said "they've been well-fed, well-lodged (and) they've watched a lot of
American television." He said the men are in "generally good spirits."

Authorities said they believe the men sneaked aboard the barge Pearle Jahn  as
it was being towed from its last port of call, the Ivory Coast city of  Abidjan.

For 22 days, they hid in a hot, dark space aboard the barge. They brought  food
and water for only 10 to 12 days, so they were forced to drink their own  urine
during the last part of the 22-day passage. Officials said they were  badly
dehydrated and emaciated when they were rescued.

LOAD-DATE: June 3, 1993

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DISTRIBUTION: TAMPA BAY AND STATE

                            Times Publishing Company


                              13 of 187 DOCUMENTS

                         St. Petersburg Times (Florida)

                    January 6, 1994, Thursday, City Edition

An unfair burden on Florida

SECTION: EDITORIAL; EDITORIALS; Pg. 14A

LENGTH: 454 words



Gov. Lawton Chiles plans to sue the federal government for reimbursement of
costs incurred for the education, housing and health care of undocumented
immigrants in Florida. Those costs were estimated for 1992 alone at  $
739-million.

Chiles' action is in response to a very legitimate concern, also expressed  by
the governors of California, Texas and Illinois, about the financial drain  of
caring for the illegal immigrants who are in the country because of  outdated
immigration laws and uneven, even spotty, enforcement.

About 3.3-million undocumented immigrants reach the United States each  year,
and fewer than half of them are apprehended by U.S. Immigration and
Naturalization Service. The Heritage Foundation, a conservative policy study
group in Washington, puts the cost of the illegal immigrants at $ 7.7-billion a

 year, although that cost is offset somewhat by the $ 1.2-billion annually they

 are estimated to pay in taxes.

About half of all the illegal immigrants wind up in California, where Gov.  Pete
Wilson says they cost the state and local governments $ 3-billion a year.
Wilson asked the Clinton administration for help in defraying those costs, but
got only $ 324-million. For their part, INS officials say they recognize the
hardship on several heavily affected states, but they say they can't do more  to
help defray the cost because they don't have the money, either.

Chiles says the selective enforcement of immigration laws by the INS has  turned
Florida into a haven for the foreign homeless. In the southeast part of  the
state, the governor said, INS releases Haitians, Nicaraguans and others  before
their requests for asylum can be evaluated, and there is no penalty  when they
don't return later for status hearings. Cubans, he said, are granted  asylum
immediately, under a law passed nearly 30 years ago and long since  outdated.

Chiles' lawsuit could be doomed, since the courts in the 1980s dismissed  two
similar suits dealing with the cost of illegal immigrants. But it can't  hurt to
spotlight the issue again, out in the open where the Clinton  administration
can't miss it. The proper response would be a comprehensive  review of
immigration policy with an eye to a major overhaul of its  implementation.

The United States cannot turn its back on the oppressed, but neither can we
tolerate a continuation of the trend in Washington to devise policy, mandate
results and tell the states affected that they'll just have to find a way to
deal with the financial fallout. In that regard, Chiles' message to Washington
is clear: Pass fair laws and enforce them to the fullest - or pay for the
consequences yourself.

LOAD-DATE: January 8, 1994

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: EDITORIAL

                            Times Publishing Company


                              14 of 187 DOCUMENTS

                         St. Petersburg Times (Florida)

               March 21, 1996, Thursday, 0 South Pinellas Edition

House: no school for illegal aliens

BYLINE: ELLEN DEBENPORT

SECTION: NATIONAL; Pg. 1A

LENGTH: 932 words

DATELINE: WASHINGTON



At the urging of House Speaker Newt Gingrich, the House on Wednesday slammed
the schoolhouse door against children who are in this country illegally,  voting
that they have no right to public education.

"This is the right thing to do to send the right signal around the  world,"
Gingrich said in a rare speech on the House floor. " "Come to  America for
opportunity. Do not come to America to live off the American  taxpayer.' "

The vote wasn't close, 257-163.

Each state would be allowed to decide whether to continue to educate its
children. Florida spends more than $ 400-million a year for illegal immigrant
children in its schools, with no help from the federal government.

But Gov. Lawton Chiles has said he opposes measures like the one the House
passed. He says he would rather have the children in school than on the
streets.

In a series of votes, the House took steps to nationalize California's
Proposition 187, which was passed overwhelmingly in 1994 to deny nearly all
benefits to illegal immigrants. It has been tied up in California courts every
since.

The House said illegal immigrant parents should not be allowed to apply for
welfare on behalf of their children who were born in this country and are U.S.
citizens. Lawmakers said it's a back door way to collect welfare, which  already
is banned for illegal immigrants.

They voted to test a new workplace system to try to catch illegal  immigrants if
they apply for jobs. Employers could call an 800 number to see  whether a job
applicant is legally in the country. One congressman dubbed it
1-800-BIG-BROTHER.

But the lawmakers stopped short of requiring hospitals to turn over the  names
of illegal immigrants for deportation after they seek medical treatment.

All this is a long way from becoming law. The House is working its way  through
an enormous immigration reform bill, with a final vote expected today.

The Senate, which is working on its own bill, would have to agree to these
measures, then the president would have to sign them into law. President
Clinton has said he wants to keep the kids in school.

But even if he changed his mind - and Clinton will need to win big  immigration
states including Florida, Texas and California to get re-elected -  the school
ban surely would head to the U.S. Supreme Court.

The court ruled in 1982 that states have an obligation to educate all  children,
regardless of their immigration status. But the ruling noted that  Congress had
never addressed the matter.

Gingrich said people are living in "fantasyland" if they don't think  welfare
and a free education are drawing immigrants to this country. Educating  the
children in California, New York, Florida and Texas alone costs about  $
3-billion a year, he said.

If the federal government can't stop the flow of immigrants, then Congress
should pay for their schooling, Gingrich said.

His words enraged Rep. John Bryant, D-Texas, a sponsor of the immigration  bill.
A number of members would have loved to see federal funds to educate  illegal
immigrant children, but the Republican-controlled Rules Committee  wouldn't let
them bring it to a vote.

"I say shame on you, Mr. Speaker," Bryant said.

The immigration bill, which Bryant is sponsoring with Texas Republican  Lamar
Smith, tries in a variety of ways to make America less attractive to  illegal
immigrants. Schools, welfare and jobs are thought to be what draws  them, and
the bill tries to curtail each one.

The House fought for hours about the workplace verification system but  agreed
to a three-year pilot project in five states, including Florida.  Employers who
volunteer for the project would call an 800-number to see  whether a job
applicant's name matches his Social Security number.

"We know what's coming next - national ID cards in all likelihood," said  Rep.
Steve Chabot, R-Ohio, who tried to kill the system.

Others complained the verification system would violate privacy and civil
liberties or would burden businesses. One compared it to tracking down the
Japanese to put them in internment camps.

Employers already have a verification system they don't like. They must ask  to
see a Social Security number and file a form swearing the employee is  legal.
But they have no way of knowing whether the number is valid, and fake  documents
are a booming business in immigration states.

Republican Ken Calvert said as a businessman in California, "I saw my  share of
suspicious documents over the years. 1-800 would give me peace of  mind."

As for welfare, about 100,000 American children will be barred from welfare  if
their illegal immigrant parents cannot apply for it, said Rep. Nydia  Velazquez,
a New York Democrat who immigrated from Puerto Rico.

She argued that the bill would create two tiers of U.S. children, some  entitled
to aid and others not. The House was not moved.

"I do not believe we should reward those who break our laws and then  provide
them with generous welfare checks," said Rep. Elton Gallegly,  R-Calif. The
money should be used for bus fare to send them home, he said.

Florida votes

A "yes" vote is a vote to add the amendment to the bill. An X denotes those  not
voting.

   Republicans - Bilirakis, Y; Canady, Y; Diaz-Balart, N; Foley, Y; Fowler, Y;
Goss, Y; McCollum, Y; Mica, Y; Miller, Y; Ros-Lehtinen, N; Scarborough, Y;
Shaw, Y; Stearns, Y; Weldon, Y; Young, Y.  Democrats - Brown, N; Deutsch, Y;
Gibbons, N; Hastings, N; Johnston, X; Meek,  N; Peterson, X; Thurman, N.

LOAD-DATE: March 21, 1996

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                    Copyright 1996 Times Publishing Company


                              15 of 187 DOCUMENTS

                         St. Petersburg Times (Florida)

                     July 28, 1993, Wednesday, City Edition

Immigration restrictions urged

SOURCE: Baltimore Sun

SECTION: NATIONAL; Pg. 1A

LENGTH: 689 words

DATELINE: WASHINGTON



President Clinton, responding to the public's widespread fear that America's
immigration policy is out of control, has asked Congress to take specific  steps
to keep terrorists out of the country, severely punish those who smuggle  aliens
and reduce the vast number of illegal immigrants pouring over the  borders.

"We cannot tolerate those who traffic in human cargo, nor can we allow our
people to be endangered by those who would enter our country to terrorize
Americans," the president said Tuesday.

Clinton requested an additional $ 172.5-million, most of which would go to
hiring 600 more Border Patrol agents and upgrading communications technology
and management so that the State Department can communicate with its  consulates
to keep those identified as dangerous from obtaining visas.

An increase in immigration inspection and other fees and a surcharge on
machine-readable visa applications would cover $ 87-million of the cost, the
White House said. The rest already has been approved by the Senate
Appropriations Committee and is working its way through Congress.

The president also proposed using government racketeering statutes as a way  of
coming down hard on the "coyotes" who lead immigrants across the Mexico  border,
or help the sophisticated Chinese gangs boating people halfway across  the
world.

Finally, Clinton wants to streamline procedures for granting asylum to  refugees
so that every would-be immigrant who claims to be escaping government
persecution is not necessarily guaranteed a court hearing. Some would be
interviewed by immigration officials at their port of entry and, if their
claims were determined to be bogus, put on an airplane and sent home.

A group of immigration lawyers immediately characterized the change as "an
overreaction" that would result in the deportation of legitimate refugees,  but
the president's reforms appear to have the backing of the widest  ideological
spectrum in Congress.

Sen. Alfonse D'Amato, a conservative New York Republican, attended the  White
House announcement and praised the bill. So did Democratic Sen. Dianne
Feinstein of California, who said the present asylum procedures are "a
mockery."

Because Congress has decreed that America should serve as a haven for those  who
face persecution in their own nation because of religion, political  beliefs or
ethnicity, some illegal immigrants from places such as Central  America, the
Mideast, China, Cuba, Haiti, Ethiopia and other troubled nations  simply ask for
asylum when caught.

This claim puts them in a special administrative category at the  Immigration
and Naturalization Service. They are free to live in the United  States until a
formal hearing is held, a process that takes months because of  a backlog
estimated at 300,000 cases.

Vice President Al Gore, who formulated the new procedures, noted Tuesday  that
many who claim to be refugees do not even show up for their hearings.  They
simply vanish into the huge immigrant undergrounds that exist in major  American
cities.

The potential for abuse was brought home to administration officials  recently
when the freighter Golden Venture ran aground of New York City  carrying
hundreds of undocumented Chinese reportedly being smuggled into the  country.
When apprehended, many applied for asylum, some on the basis that  China's
population restrictions would leave them open to persecution if they  decided to
have more than one child.

Sensitive to charges of prejudice and to the fact that America is a nation  of
immigrants, the president, like the members of Congress who attended  Tuesday's
announcement, took pains to insist that the United States will not  "close our
borders."

Recent public opinion surveys, however, show that an overwhelming number of
Americans believe the nation should curtail immigration. This view does not
appear to be primarily based on racial fears, either: The polls found that
Mexican-Americans wanted immigration restrictions - even though Mexico has  sent
more immigrants in the last 12 years than any other nation.

LOAD-DATE: July 28, 1993

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: BLACK AND WHITE PHOTO, Associated Press; Sen. Edward Kennedy, D-Mass.,
talks over immigration controls with President Clinton on Tuesday.

                            Times Publishing Company


                              16 of 187 DOCUMENTS

                         St. Petersburg Times (Florida)

                    September 2, 1990, Sunday, City Edition

Immigration paper chase multiplies

BYLINE: MARLENE SOKOL

SECTION: BRANDON TIMES; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 958 words

DATELINE: RUSKIN



The "officials" seemed to be in too much of a hurry, and the fees to process the
"work papers" were, oddly, negotiable.

    So Ernesto Copto and Antonio Sandoval, migrant workers from Mexico, showed
the documents they had purchased for $ 350 to a neighbor who lived near their
mobile home park.

    The neighbor arranged a meeting with the man and woman who had sold them the
papers and then placed an anonymous phone call to the Hillsborough County
Sheriff's Office.

    Sheriff's deputies arrested Cesar Vega and Blanca Granados on June 16. The
couple, who are immigrants themselves, pleaded guilty to grand theft and now
face deportation proceedings, according to the Immigration and Naturalization
Service (INS).

    Vega and Granados are not unique. In fact, law enforcement officials say the
only thing unusual about their case is that somebody turned them in.

    Immigrant communities in East Hillsborough and elsewhere are crawling with
phony document sellers profiting from the nation's tougher immigration laws.

    Since 1986, federal law has required employers to ask workers for proof of
their birthplace or immigration status, such as passports, birth certificates,
Social Security cards, or residency papers commonly known as "green cards."

    But no one requires employers to make sure the documents are valid. And that
loophole in the law has created a multimillion-dollar market for bogus
documents, frustrating INS officials who had hoped finally to stem the flow of
illegal immigration.

    "False documents are highly available on both sides of the border," said INS
spokesman Duke Austin in Washington, D.C. "It has become a rampant cottage
industry."

    Document fraud is "the major fraud of the day," said Lynn Nelson Paretta,
the INS' senior special agent for investigations. "We are adding more resources
and funding, and working with other agencies to try to combat it."


 Counterfeiters are selling Social Security cards, birth certificates, green
cards, and just about any other document that can be used to establish legal
residency.

    They charge $ 50 to $ 500, or "whatever the market will bear," she said.

    And the market is substantial. A study published in the New York Times
showed that of 900 aliens arrested at their workplaces, 233 admitted having
counterfeit Social Security cards and 142 admitted having a fake green card,
numbers that INS officials said were probably low.

    INS has only recently started to keep statistics on document fraud. Between
October and April, the service investigated close to 1,200 cases, and convicted
151 people, Paretta said.

    Most were "facilitators," who sold $ 10,000 to $ 100,000 worth of documents,
Paretta said. Some were "organizations" grossing more than $ 100,000.

    About two-thirds of those convicted are immigrants, she said.

    And the statistics do not include those who forged their own documents.

    In December, the INS told its field offices it is making document fraud a
priority. Since then, some INS regional offices have teamed up with local police
to form task forces and have applied for special financing to conduct
investigations.

    George Waldroup, an INS special assistant in Miami, said he could not say
whether Florida has any such task forces.

    Larry Sprinkle, who heads INS investigations in Tampa, said that with only
four agents, his office does not yet have enough resources to investigate many
fraud complaints. "We get a lot of information that we can't develop," he said.

    Though no one can accurately say how fast the practice is growing,
investigators think it received a major boost in 1987, when the federal
government introduced a temporary "special agricultural worker," or SAW program.


    SAW, part of the nation's sweeping amnesty program, enabled aliens to apply
for residency if they could prove with an affidavit that they had spent certain
amounts of time performing field work on farms.

    "A lot of people got into the business of selling affidavits," Paretta said.
"Once they were baptized, they moved up into green cards and other documents."

    Catching counterfeiters is difficult, as most victims are unwilling or
afraid to turn them in.

    Some officials think that most victims are aware that they are buying
counterfeit papers. Others say they are not so sure.

    "You've got a very exploitable population here," Austin said.  "They are new
to this country and they are unsure of themselves.  The green card is their pot
of gold."

    Either way, there is little reason for a victim to speak out.

    "I had something like 18 victims in one case, but only six would come
forward," said Hillsborough Sheriff's Cpl. Larry Scofield.  "Most of them are
afraid to come forward, because they are illegal aliens."

    Or they disappear. The St. Petersburg Times tried to contact several people
who were listed as witnesses in recent sheriff's complaints about fraudulent
documents. Almost all had left the area some for Mexico and others for other
U.S. cities, most without forwarding addresses or phone numbers.

    The INS sometimes allows witnesses in fraud cases to remain in the country
until an investigation is over. But beyond that, there is little the INS or
sheriff's deputies can promise.

    In one case, Scofield said, "I have talked to the INS and they are more
interested in arresting people than in sending the victims back to their
homelands."

LOAD-DATE: November 10, 1992

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DISTRIBUTION: BRANDON TIMES; TAMPA; TAMPA BAY AND STATE

                            Times Publishing Company


                              17 of 187 DOCUMENTS

                         St. Petersburg Times (Florida)

                March 8, 1996, Friday, 0 South Pinellas Edition

Sen. Simpson abandons plan to restrict immigrant hiring

BYLINE: ELLEN DEBENPORT

SECTION: NATIONAL; Pg. 7A

LENGTH: 613 words



Faced with the wrath of the U.S. business community, Sen. Alan Simpson  declared
defeat and said Thursday he will not try to change any of the laws  about hiring
legal immigrants.

Businesses can go right ahead recruiting foreigners with special skills or
filling shortages with foreign workers. They won't have to pay a $ 10,000 fee
for each foreigner, as Simpson had proposed, and the foreign workers won't  have
to meet any new requirements for experience or language skills.

Businesses can even fire Americans and hire foreigners at a cheaper rate,  which
Sen. Ted Kennedy said is an outrageous loophole in existing law.

"It is one more phase of turning our backs on American workers," said  Kennedy,
D-Mass.

He vowed to change it, so this fight may not be over.

Simpson, a Wyoming Republican, made his announcement as the Senate  Judiciary
Committee began work on his massive immigration bill, which covers  legal and
illegal immigration. The committee will amend the bill over the next  few weeks,
then take it to the Senate floor.

The bill's employment provisions drew fire for months from the business
community, with Bill Gates of Microsoft leading the charge. Business people
said they couldn't hire the best and the brightest workers to compete globally
under Simpson's bill and complained that not enough skilled Americans are
available to fill jobs.

Simpson said he tried to address their concerns but couldn't please them.

"Each time we resolved one, they became more creative, more novel."  Meanwhile,
he said, they spread horror stories about how his bill would  destroy U.S.
business.

So Simpson is removing "every single aspect, every shred" of the  employment
provisions from the bill.

That way, he said, Congress won't be distracted from another controversial  part
of the bill, which would limit the number of immigrants allowed legally  into
the country each year. Simpson said he wants to stop the "chain  migration" that
allows immigrants to bring siblings, elderly parents and  adult children to join
them.

He also wants to keep employers from hiring illegal immigrants. The trouble  is
in figuring out who is illegal, and this is where the national ID card  debate
arose again.

Simpson is not proposing ID cards, but his opponents said that is where it
would lead.

What Simpson wants is a way for businesses to check the Social Security  number
of a new hire to make sure that person is in the country legally. Maybe  they
could call an 800 number.

The committee agreed to try pilot programs in five states with high  immigration
- Florida being one of them - to test various systems. But the  proposal ran
into strong opposition from committee members who said it would  violate privacy
and burden businesses.

"We need to visualize the people in the real world who are going to have  to
deal with it," said Sen. Mike DeWine, R-Ohio. "In the real world, this is  a
nightmare."

Sen. Patrick Leahy, D-Vt., remembered how outraged he was to be stopped in
Vermont by a border-patrol agent checking citizenship. Leahy was miles from  the
border with Canada, he said.

"I'll be damned if I want to go and have to prove to anybody, law  enforcement
or anybody, that I'm an American," he said.

The committee also agreed to try to catch people who come to the United  States
legally as visitors, students or temporary workers but never go home.  They
account for half the illegal immigrants in the country.

The new proposal would add 300 investigators to find those who overstay  their
visas. Once caught, they would be deported and barred from the United  States
for three years.

LOAD-DATE: March 8, 1996

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                    Copyright 1996 Times Publishing Company


                              18 of 187 DOCUMENTS

                         St. Petersburg Times (Florida)

                       May 7, 1993, Friday, City Edition

U.S. threatens to fine Disney

SECTION: BUSINESS; BUSINESS BRIEFS; Pg. 2D

LENGTH: 590 words



Immigration authorities, accusing Disneyland in California of hiring illegal
aliens, threatened to fine the theme park nearly $ 395,000 - the largest such
penalty ever imposed.

Robert Reed, an Immigration and Naturalization Service special agent, said
Wednesday that investigators discovered 1,156 paperwork violations during a
review of Disneyland employee records.

The review also showed that about 150 employees had questionable work  papers,
including fake "green cards" or counterfeit Social Security cards,  Reed said.

Disney called the violations "technical."

FOOD LION VOWS COMEBACK. Food Lion president Tom Smith received a standing
ovation from shareholders Thursday at the company's annual meeting after he
promised the grocery store chain would bounce back from the worst year in its
35-year history. The meeting in Salisbury, N.C., was the first for  shareholders
since last year's ABC News broadcast of a PrimeTime Live report  that accused
the company of unsanitary food handling. Food Lion earnings for  the past two
quarters are off by 55 percent, and its stock has lost nearly  two-thirds of its
value.

 PRODUCTIVITY DECLINES. The Labor Department said Thursday the productivity  of
American workers declined 0.1 percent during the first quarter, the first  drop
in two years. Meanwhile, the number of Americans filing first-time claims  for
jobless benefits was unchanged last week.

 S&L CLEANUP APPROVED. The House Banking Committee approved Thursday what  it
hopes is the final installment on cleaning up the savings and loan  disaster.
Price: $ 34-billion. If approved by Congress, it would push the total  of all
money spent or promised on S&Ls since 1988 to more than $ 190-billion.

 TECH RESEARCH TO CALL WARRANTS. Technology Research Corp. of Clearwater  said
it is preparing to call its outstanding Class A stock warrants. A warrant
represents the right to buy stock at a certain price. If all warrants are
exercised at $ 1.05 per share, the company would raise $ 2.8-million in
additional capital. Warrants not exercised will be redeemable for 5 cents  each.
Technology Research develops and makes electronic control and  measurement
devices related to the distribution of electrical power, and  specializes in
safety products that prevent shock and electrocution.

 SEARS OUTLET TO CLOSE. The Sears Catalog Outlet at 4301 34th St. S in St.
Petersburg will close May 15. Closing dates have not been set yet for two  other
catalog outlets in St. Petersburg's Rutland Plaza and Tampa's Britton  Plaza.
All three stores are closing as part of a massive restructuring of  Sears,
Roebuck & Co., which is is shutting down its catalog operation for good  this
summer.

 GRUMMAN CLOSING PLANTS. The Grumman Corp. announced Thursday it was  closing
three plants in New York, Texas and Maryland and laying off 424  workers because
of a declining defense budget and a need to cut costs.

 KMART PLANS SPANISH ANNOUNCEMENTS. Kmart will begin broadcasting
Spanish-language announcements and music next week on its in-store radio
systems at locations serving Hispanic communities in 10 states, including
Florida, the retail chain announced Thursday.

FORMER EXEC SENTENCED. A former vice president of discount drugstore chain
Phar-Mor Inc. was sentenced Thursday in Cleveland to six months of home
detention for his role in an alleged $ 1-billion fraud and embezzlement scheme.

 Jeffrey Walley, 37, was also placed on probation for three years.

LOAD-DATE: May 8, 1993

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: BLACK AND WHITE PHOTO; TOM SMITH

TYPE: DIGEST

                            Times Publishing Company


                              19 of 187 DOCUMENTS

                         St. Petersburg Times (Florida)

                    February 24, 1989, Friday, City Edition

INS has its camp ready, and refugees stay away

SECTION: NATIONAL; Pg. 3A

LENGTH: 271 words

DATELINE: BAYVIEW, Texas



BAYVIEW, Texas - Empty tents flapped in the breeze, and immigration    officials
stood chatting idly in the sunshine Thursday at a federal    detention camp that
was expanded to handle thousands of political    asylum claims by Central
American refugees.

     The refugees simply did not show up.  Where they went remained a
mystery.

     More than 600 people a day presented applications at the    immigration
detention facility even last week, but on Wednesday only 51    people appeared
and Thursday there were just a dozen.

     The sudden dropoff followed the adoption Tuesday of federal    policies
under which applicants for asylum face detention and    deportation if their
claims are rejected.

     Officials of the Immigration and Naturalization Service (INS)    repeatedly
predicted that virtually all claims would be rejected.

     On Tuesday all but two of the 233 applicants were turned down.

     Linda Yanez, an immigration lawyer, said, "I think that once    people
figured out that they would get locked up if they went to make    an application
here, they just decided to take their chances and try to    get somewhere else
in the country."

     Jim Buck, deputy INS commissioner, asserted Thursday, "We expected    the
numbers to fall off, and they have fallen off very quickly."

     Buck acknowledged that the INS was not certain what happened to the
refugees. "We do not think that they are here," he said, "and it is    too early
to tell whether they are on the other side of the border."



LOAD-DATE: November 9, 1992

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                            Times Publishing Company


                              20 of 187 DOCUMENTS

                         St. Petersburg Times (Florida)

                    January 3, 1996, Wednesday, City Edition

The costly traffic in human flesh

SECTION: EDITORIAL; EDITORIALS; Pg. 12A

LENGTH: 447 words



When most Americans hear the expression "national security problem," they
probably don't think about the growing problem of smuggling illegal aliens  into
the United States. But a new interagency working group has sent a report  to
President Clinton recommending that this trade in human cargo be treated as  a
national security concern, not just as an immigration problem.

According to a nine-month study produced by the State Department, Justice
Department, Immigration and Naturalization Service, Coast Guard, CIA and FBI,
hundreds of thousands of illegal immigrants are smuggled into the United  States
by an expanding international criminal network that brings in billions  of
dollars annually. In China, for example, smugglers move 50,000 illegal
immigrants to the United States each year at fees of $ 35,000 each.

The problems facing INS are many. Budget constraints, for instance, are
preventing officials from increasing enforcement capabilities overseas and  from
broadening training programs in foreign countries. But the most serious
obstacle is the widespread corruption at all levels of most nations from which
the aliens come and from those serving as pipelines.

In many countries, high-level elected and appointed officials profit from  the
trade in human cargo. The INS reports that even some U.S. customs officers  and
airport officials are cashing in by looking the other way. Another problem  is
that the smugglers are well-organized and wealthy.

U.S. officials are fighting a losing battle, and they will continue to play
catch-up as long they lack sufficient funding and as long as they cannot get
foreign nations to criminalize immigrant smuggling. In most cases, when U.S.
authorities identify smugglers that should be arrested abroad, officials in
those nations refuse to do so, arguing that such trade is victimless. American
taxpayers know better. We pay huge sums each year not only in trying to  protect
our borders but also in providing basic services to those here  illegally.

The study suggests that, in addition to persuading foreign countries to
criminalize human smuggling, the U.S. government should deny or revoke the
visas of foreign officials connected to the trade. All countries have a right
to protect their borders. We cannot continue to absorb upward to 500,000
illegals each year.

As it sorts out the budget mess in Washington, Congress must realize that  this
growing trafficking in human flesh poses a national security threat. More  money
needs to be found, and the government should apply all of the diplomatic
pressure in its power to counter this corrupt enterprise.

LOAD-DATE: January 4, 1996

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: EDITORIAL

                    Copyright 1996 Times Publishing Company


                              21 of 187 DOCUMENTS

                         St. Petersburg Times (Florida)

                May 30, 1996, Thursday, 0 South Pinellas Edition

Efforts redouble to bar illegal aliens

BYLINE: ELLEN DEBENPORT

SECTION: NATIONAL; Pg. 1A

LENGTH: 700 words

DATELINE: WASHINGTON



The federal government is stepping up efforts to keep illegal immigrants from
coming to Florida, adding more agents, more money and a worker ID program to
prevent illegals from getting jobs.

Many of the moves announced Wednesday by Attorney General Janet Reno and  Gov.
Lawton Chiles at a Washington news conference expand on existing  programs, such
as deporting criminal aliens from Florida prisons. But a couple  of items are
new.

Florida will test an employment verification system, already being tried in
California. Employers will be able to call the Immigration and Naturalization
Service and check to see whether the person they are hiring is in the country
legally.

"Employers love it," said Chris Sales, INS deputy commissioner.

Well, maybe not all of them would love it, but the program will be  voluntary,
said Lt. Gov. Buddy MacKay. The tourism industry is especially  interested in
trying it. Hiring illegals as hotel maids and kitchen workers  has been a
problem, and big hotel chains don't want a reputation for hiring  illegals who
displace American workers, he said.

Chiles said he will soon sign an executive order forbidding the state to
contract with any employer known to hire illegal immigrants.

Under current law, when job applicants are hired, they have to fill out a  form
swearing they are U.S. citizens or legal residents, entitled to work. The
employer has no way of knowing whether it's true but is held responsible for
hiring illegals.

Sales, the deputy commissioner, said the verification system takes the onus  off
the employer. Every new hire must be verified, so the employer doesn't  have to
guess who might be illegal by appearance or accent. An employer who  guesses
wrong can be sued for discrimination.

The verification system also will be tested within state government.

INS is also setting up an airport court at Miami International Airport.  Anyone
who tries to enter the country without proper documents will be taken  to the
court. If they contest the proceedings, they will be jailed at the  Krome
Detention Center.

"Having the court at the airport, I can't tell you how important that's  going
to be," Chiles said. "That word will go back (to the countries of  origin) that
the minute you get off the plane, you go to court and go back."

Until now, people stopped at the airport have been entitled to endless
hearings, Chiles said, and they usually disappeared into the population.

Thirty-nine new inspectors will be assigned to airports in Miami, Orlando  and
Sanford, which is a customs checkpoint. Illegal immigration has been a  bigger
problem in those cities than in Tampa, Chiles said.

INS is also starting an anti-smuggling operation in the Caribbean, to keep
immigrants from being smuggled ashore, and is tripling Krome's capacity to 800
beds. Another 220 jail beds will be available in Manatee County.

Further, INS will hire 18 more agents to identify illegal immigrants who  are
already in jails or prisons for committing crimes, bringing the total  agents to
39. Some non-violent offenders will be deported immediately. Others  will wait
until they have finished their sentences.

Reno, the former state attorney in Miami, sounded especially pleased by  this
effort.

"I, as a prosecutor, watched these people who had served their time go  back to
the streets," she said.

Now they will be marched from their jail cells to a bus to the airport for
deportation, Chiles said. "We would rather have that bed for some violent  U.S.
citizen."

The cost of jailing criminal aliens is the only area in which the federal
government helps states pay for illegal immigration. Florida got $ 6.5-million
last year and should get more this year because INS has more to spend. Its
overall budget has risen 72 percent since President Clinton took office.

The cost of the other improvements in Florida will be $ 7.6-million for the
rest of this budget year, Sales said.

Chiles in 1994 sued the federal government to demand reimbursement for  other
costs, such as health care and schooling for illegal immigrants, but the  U.S.
Supreme Court this month threw out his case.

LOAD-DATE: May 30, 1996

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: COLOR PHOTO, Associated Press; Gov. Lawton Chiles and Attorney General
Reno stood together as changes were announced.

                    Copyright 1996 Times Publishing Company


                              22 of 187 DOCUMENTS

                         St. Petersburg Times (Florida)

                     July 18, 1990, Wednesday, City Edition

Immigration law results in blatant discrimination

BYLINE: ROGER E. HERNANDEZ

SECTION: BRANDON TIMES; COLUMN; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 813 words



John Smith and Juan Perez apply for a job at a factory. John, born in Cleveland,
is a blond-haired All-American type. Juan, a naturalized American born in
Chihuahua, Mexico, is dark-skinned and speaks with an accent. Who gets the job?

    A study by the Congressional General Accounting Office showed that, at more
than a million workplaces across the country, the job is more likely to go to
John, while Juan is going to find himself the victim of discrimination a bias
that stems directly from the Immigration Reform and Control Act passed by
Congress in 1986.

    The law granted permanent residence and work permits to immigrants who
arrived in the United States before 1982, and established heavy fines for
employers who hire illegal aliens. Since then companies have been requiring
applicants to present some form of documentation that attests they legally can
live and work in the United States.

    Sounds fair in theory. In practice, employers, fearing the penalties, have
opted for the easy way out and refused to hire people who look or sound
"foreign," even if they are American citizens.

    That the immigration law, known as IRCA, discourages the hiring of Hispanics
was noted in the GAO study, as well as in reports by state government
commissions in California and New York. The GAO study, in particular, uncovered
grievous prejudice.

    Of the 4.6-million employers surveyed, 227,000 admitted no ifs, ands or buts
that they do not hire applicants who appear foreign or speak accented English;
another 430,000 said they hire only people born in the United States. If you
were born somewhere else (read Latin America) you would be out of luck, even if
all your work documents were in order; 461,000 others acknowledged various forms
of discrimination. Keep in mind, these figures just show the ones who admitted
bias.

    In short, IRCA has resulted in a gross violation of the civil rights of
perhaps millions of Hispanics who have been denied employment because of the way
they look or sound or because they were born overseas.

    Of course, no responsible supporter of immigration reform is going to come
out in favor of discrimination, but IRCA still has its backers. In a way, the
law accomplished what it was meant to do.  Nearly every study from neutral
groups and those with an ax to grind on either side of the issue has found that
illegal immigration has been at least slightly reduced since implementation of
the law. One report, undertaken by the Rand Corporation and the Urban Institute,
estimates that illegal entries into the country are 20 percent lower than they
would have been had employer sanctions not existed. Illegal immigration has not
disappeared, perhaps it has even continued to grow. But IRCA apparently has
slowed the pace.

    This brings up a question: Is cutting illegal immigration worth the
violation of people's rights? My answer is that it is not. I can find no level
of discrimination that is acceptable, no matter what it accomplishes otherwise.
But Congress doesn't seem to care.

    Written into IRCA back in 1986 was a proviso that required the GAO to
undertake the study I mentioned above. After the report was issued, Congress was
supposed to act within 30 days to remedy any discrimination the GAO found.

    It has been three and a half months since the GAO report, and a House bill
to repeal the sanctions, sponsored by Bill Richardson, D-N.M., and Edward
Roybal, D-Calif., lies dormant in the House Judiciary Committee, which seems to
be want to avoid the issue altogether.

    Richardson says he is glad the bill didn't go to the House floor within the
30-day period. "We would lose badly," he told me.  "Congress right now does not
want the sanctions lifted." But he is angry that the committee still has done
nothing. Richardson and other members of the Hispanic caucus want the committee
to pass the bill and schedule a floor vote toward year's end. That may give
Richardson and his colleagues time to convince lawmakers that an injustice is
being committed in the name of immigration reform.

    Tighter border controls and stronger economic ties with Mexico can stem
illegal immigration without violating people's right to earn a living. But
Congress, looking at the apparent decrease in illegal immigration brought on by
the sanctions, seems happy with the status quo. "It is a callous attitude toward
Hispanic concerns," Richardson says.
  Roger E. Hernandez is an adjunct member of the journalism faculty at Fairleigh
Dickinson University and Bloomfield College in New Jersey. Born in Cuba, he came
to the United States in 1965 when his parents were exiled by Fidel Castro.
 1990 King Features Syndicate, Inc.

LOAD-DATE: November 13, 1992

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DISTRIBUTION: BRANDON TIMES; TAMPA

TYPE: COLUMN

                            Times Publishing Company


                              23 of 187 DOCUMENTS

                         St. Petersburg Times (Florida)

                     October 7, 1990, Sunday, City Edition

Immigration act clears house

SOURCE: Congressional Quarterly

SECTION: NATIONAL; HOW CONGRESS VOTED; Pg. 13A

LENGTH: 361 words



In the first move to overhaul the nation's immigration quotas since 1965, the
House Wednesday approved, 231-192, a bill designed to reunite families and bring
more skilled workers into the United States.

    The measure would increase the number of legal aliens allowed to enter the
United States from 540,000 to at least 800,000 annually excluding refugee
admissions, which are covered by a separate law.

    These legal aliens would be admitted on the basis of family ties and their
ability to fill specific U.S. labor shortages.

    Supporters stressed the need for legislation to allow permanent residents in
this country to be reunited with spouses and minor children. They also
emphasized the employment-based immigration aspect of the bill.

    "Unifying families . . . has been a critical priority of our immigration
system," said Bruce Morrison, D-Conn. "Nonetheless, under our existing law the
immediate relatives of people .  admitted to live permanently in the United
States may be prevented from joining their family members for years."

    Opponents argued that this measure was a "radical" departure from
immigration laws of the past and objected strenuously to the provisions allowing
amnesty for illegal aliens.

      "The administration shares their (bill supporters') desire to increase
immigration," said Lamar Smith, R-Texas. "That is not the point here. The point
is America simply cannot admit every single individual who wants to come to our
shores."

    Voting for the immigration act: Gibbons (D), Ros-Lehtinen (R), Smith (D),
Lehman (D), Fascell (D).

    Voting against: Hutto (D), Grant (R), Bennett (D), James (R), McCollum (R),
Stearns (R), Young (R), Bilirakis (R), Ireland (R), Nelson (D), Lewis (R), Goss
(R), Johnston (D), Shaw (R).



 Souter wins Senate confirmation: The Senate Tuesday overwhelmingly endorsed the
confirmation of David Souter to be an associate justice on the U.S. Supreme
Court by a 90-9 vote.

    Florida Senators Connie Mack and Bob Graham both voted to confirm Souter.


LOAD-DATE: November 10, 1992

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                            Times Publishing Company


                              24 of 187 DOCUMENTS

                         St. Petersburg Times (Florida)

                     October 26, 1990, Friday, City Edition

Canada liberalizes immigration rules

SECTION: NATIONAL; WORLD DIGEST; Pg. 21A

LENGTH: 475 words

DATELINE: OTTAWA; DUBLIN, Ireland; PANAMA CITY, Panama; CHICAGO; WASHINGTON



OTTAWA Canada announced a plan Thursday to substantially boost immigration over
the next five years while liberalizing rules to attract skilled workers to help
fill critical shortages. Immigration Minister Barbara McDougall said immigration
would increase to 250,000 people a year by 1992 from 220,000 in 1991 and 200,000
this year. Ethnic groups immediately praised the increase, saying the government
is moving toward their demand to increase immigration to roughly equal to 1
percent of Canada's population of 26-million. In the future there will be
greater emphasis on attracting skilled workers to accommodate labor shortages in
certain regions.

 Former police chief arrested in Panama

 PANAMA CITY, Panama A former Panamanian police chief accused of leading a coup
attempt against President Guillermo Endara was arrested Thursday for crimes
against the state, authorities said. Col. Eduardo Herrera was arrested at police
headquarters a day after he was brought in for questioning, according to a
statement from Attorney General Rogelio Cruz. The statement provided no details,
except to say that Herrera had been formally charged with crimes "against the
internal character of the state." Herrera, who returned here from Peru on
Wednesday.

 Six arrested, accused in IRA bomb attacks

 DUBLIN, Ireland Irish police arrested six men after IRA "human bomb" attacks in
Northern Ireland and charged them Thursday with membership in the outlawed
guerrilla group. They were arrested in the border county of Donegal after the
Irish Republican Army killed six British soldiers and a civilian who was forced
to drive a car full of explosives to an army checkpoint in British-ruled
Northern Ireland. The six, arrested under Ireland's anti-terrorist laws,
included four men from Londonderry, scene of the bloodiest blast in the IRA's
three-pronged attack against the British Army on Wednesday.

 Elsewhere . . .
 CHICAGO A federal appeals court has ordered an art dealer to return four
6th-century Byzantine mosaics stripped from a Cyprus church after Turkey's 1974
invasion of the Mediterranean island.  The 7th U.S. Circuit Court of Appeals on
Wednesday upheld an Indiana court's August 1989 ruling ordering dealer Peg
Goldberg of the Indianapolis suburb of Carmel to return the valuable religious
artwork to Cyprus.
 WASHINGTON Sudan is continuing to block distribution of international food
deliveries, endangering as many as 11-million Sudanese, U.S. relief officials
said Thursday. Administration officials, testifying before the House Foreign
Affairs subcommittee on Africa, said Sudan's military government refused to
recognize the danger and has derailed a U.S.-led rescue under U.N. auspices that
would have saved many Sudanese from hunger.

LOAD-DATE: November 10, 1992

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: DIGEST

                            Times Publishing Company


                              25 of 187 DOCUMENTS

                         St. Petersburg Times (Florida)

                   November 29, 1990, Thursday, City Edition

Immigration bill signed today

SECTION: NATIONAL; WASHINGTON DIGEST; Pg.  6A

LENGTH: 554 words



President Bush will sign into law today the most sweeping changes in U.S.
immigration policy in a quarter-century. The new law will increase by 400,000
the number of immigrants allowed into the country in the three years beginning
October 1991. It will also ease restrictions on visitors once barred for
professing communist or other unacceptable opinions. The changes are being
enacted as millions of people are leaving their homes because of the Persian
Gulf crisis and the collapse of communism in East Europe. The new law also seeks
to bring in wealthier and better-skilled immigrants.
 Agencies team up on safety
 Two government agencies said Wednesday they will coordinate programs to protect
employees and those who live near industrial sites. "This . . . effort will help
to minimize the potential for work-related injury and death, reduce adverse
health effects for the public and prevent environmental contamination," said
acting Labor Secretary Roderick DeArment. The Environmental Protection Agency
and the Occupational Safety and Health Administration, a part of the Labor
Department, will conduct joint n n inspections and training and exchange
information on violations.  The agencies initially will focus on petrochemical
plants and lead smelters. The agreement calls for targeting different industries
each year.
 Bush signs housing bill
 President Bush on Wednesday signed into law a housing bill that he hailed as a
vehicle to make public housing for the poor "a springboard for independence, not
a bottomless pit for dependency." The National Affordable Housing Act, with a
price tag of $ 25-billion for this fiscal year and $ 27-billion in fiscal 1992,
provides grants for low-income families to buy their public housing units or
homes that are vacant or have been foreclosed. The measure provides $
155-million for this fiscal year and $ 885-million for 1992 to help low-income
people buy their homes. Among other provisions, it authorizes $ 123-million this
fiscal year and $ 258-million for 1992 to provide services for the homeless.
 In brief ...
 Rep. Barney Frank, D-Mass., completed his gradual return to work Wednesday by
attending a White House signing ceremony on housing legislation. Frank said his
recovery from a mild heart attack Nov. 17 will require him to give up
weightlifting and cigar smoking but won't cut into his work on Capitol Hill.
 President Bush signed a bill Wednesday prohibiting tuna fishing within 200
miles of the U.S. coast by foreign ships unless they have federal permits.
 The government so far this year has collected $ 474-million in overdue child
support payments from 810,000 federal tax returns, the Department of Health and
Human Services said Wednesday.
 President Bush signed legislation Wednesday altering the Food and Drug
Administration's rules for policing medical devices. The measure requires the
agency to review the safety of the most risky medical devices by 1995 if they
have not been previously screened.  An earlier law allowed the devices to stay
on the market without review if they were in use before 1976.
 President Bush on Wednesday signed into law a five-year, $ 170-billion farm
bill that curbs federal subsidies and champions environmental protection.

LOAD-DATE: November 11, 1992

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: DIGEST

                            Times Publishing Company


                              26 of 187 DOCUMENTS

                         St. Petersburg Times (Florida)

                    December 24, 1990, Monday, City Edition

Immigration law sends new signal

BYLINE: REENA SHAH

SECTION: NATIONAL; Pg. 1A

LENGTH: 1939 words



Keep your tired, your poor, your huddled masses, but give me your Ph.D.s and
millionaires, America's new immigration law seems to tell the rest of the world.


    The new law, signed last month by President Bush, sanctions a 35 percent
increase in the number of immigrants starting next year.  That will allow
700,000 people a year to enter America. From 1995, the number of immigrants will
level off to 675,000 a year.

    The law, along with recent changes in Canada's immigration law, will make
possible the immigration of nearly 1-million people every year to North America
from other parts of the world.

    The bulk of America's immigrants, as always, will be relatives of U.S.
citizens and residents, and that number remains near 500,000 a year. But there's
a new effort to upgrade the quality of newcomers by dramatically increasing the
number of visas granted to highly skilled workers and investors. The current
level of 54,000 visas for skilled workers like doctors, engineers, professors
and entrepreneurs will be raised to 140,000 a year.

    "The significant change is that there are more visas for immigrants who want
to come because they have skills, an educational background or the financial
capability to offer something to America," said Duke Austin, a spokesman for the
Immigration and Naturalization Service (INS) in Washington.

    Until now, 90 percent of immigration has been based on family unification,
Austin said.

    The new law "hasn't eroded the idea of bringing together families.  It's
just increased the share of others by increasing the overall quota."

    Although a broad limit exists on immigration, it's a "pierceable cap." There
is no limitation on immediate relatives of American citizens.

     The new law marks the fourth historic change in America's immigration
policy since the nation's founding. Despite America's longstanding image as a
cosmopolitan mecca of opportunity, its immigration policies have traditionally
tried to keep out all but Europeans.

    Laws such as the Chinese Exclusion Act were passed to keep out non-white
immigrants and other people thought equally undesirable: prostitutes, criminals
and the mentally ill.

    Equal opportunity for immigration was granted only in 1965, when the last
major change was made. That law opened doors to all nations and ethnic groups
and instituted family ties as the basis for immigration.

    The new law upholds family unification as the linchpin of America's
immigration policy and for the first time institutes a substantial reward for
skilled migrants a system that is already in place in Australia and Canada to
attract qualified citizens.

       Among the visas granted to skilled workers, 10,000 will be given to
investors who are willing to spend at least $ 1-million to set up businesses
that create jobs for at least 10 Americans.

    One-third of such visas are to go to people who are willing to locate
businesses in rural areas or areas of high unemployment.

    Curiously, the AFL-CIO, a national federation of workers' unions, supported
the overall increase in immigration, but opposed the giving of visas to such job
creators. "It's the concept of buying a visa that we're against," said Jane
O'Grady, a legislative assistant.

    The new law also scraps some older rules. One of them, a McCarthy-era
provision, the McCarran-Walter Act has denied even visitor visas to more than
350,000 people whom the administration believed were subversive or leftist. The
list has included novelists Graham Greene and Gabriel Garcia Marquez and actor
Yves Montand.

    The earlier law also specifically barred entry to homosexuals, polygamists
and people with AIDS, but the new law doesn't categorically do so. But
terrorists, spies, drug traffickers, Communists, criminals and former Nazis are
still prohibited from coming into the United States and can be deported.

       Although there is no longer a blanket ban on people with different
political beliefs, the secretary of state can still deny admission to people
whose ideas he decides are dangerous to America's foreign policy.

    The immigration law also has a new provision that resurrects a preferential
quota for immigrants from Europe. Because 85 percent of recent immigrants come
from Asia, Latin America and the Caribbean to join spouses, children or siblings
already in the United States, the new law has been amended to make immigration
easier for people from 38 other countries, mostly in Europe, who may wish to
come to America but have no immediate kin in this country to sponsor them.

    A yearly total of 40,000 people from nations such as Ireland, Italy,
Britain, Germany, Japan, Poland, Albania, Algeria and Venezuela will benefit
from this special quota.

    The largest beneficiaries of this reform are Irish. For the purpose of
immigration under this category, Ireland and Northern Ireland will be regarded
as separate countries, and up to 16,000 Irish immigrants will be allowed each
year under this quota.

    Some citizens of Hong Kong will also benefit from the new law.  Their annual
immigration quota will be raised from 5,000 to 10,000 a year. And Hong Kong, a
British crown colony that is to become a part of China in 1997, will be treated
as a separate country for purposes of immigration to America.

    Another 12,000 visas a year will be granted until 1994 to high-level
executives of large American corporations operating in Hong Kong to prevent them
from emigrating to other nations with liberal immigration policies.

    The immigration quota doesn't include the 131,000 refugees who will also
come to America this year, mostly from Indochina and the Soviet Union. Refugees
have to prove they have a well-founded fear of persecution in their countries
before they can come to America and live permanently, said Pam Lewis, a State
Department spokeswoman.

    The changes in immigration law reflect how far America's gatekeeping
policies have come since the nation was settled by Europe. Until 1965, "it was
aimed at excluding entire groups of people based on ethnicity," said David Ray
of the Federation for American Immigration Reform (FAIR) in Washington. His
group believes America can absorb no more newcomers and favors halting
immigration, from all parts of the world.

    Early immigrants to America came from northern and western Europe, and there
were practically no restrictions on their numbers.  A 1790 law provided that
"any free white man of good moral character could become a citizen after he'd
lived in America for more than two years," said Carl Haub, a demographer at the
Population Reference Bureau, a Washington research group.

    But when immigration policies were later crafted, they were restrictive. The
first significant immigration policy was enacted by Congress at the end of the
19th century to virtually ban Asian particularly Chinese immigration after
rioters accused Chinese laborers of stealing jobs.

    "When the Chinese Exclusion Act was passed (in 1882), there were 39,000
Chinese," Haub said, mostly laborers building America's railroads. "That was the
peak of Chinese arrivals at that time, but it wasn't that much if you compared
it to the 250,000 Germans who came in the same year." Subsequent laws kept out
immigrants from other Asian nations. The ban on Chinese immigration wasn't
lifted until 1943, when China fought on America's side in World War II.

    In 1924, another law was enacted to restrict the number of immigrants from
southern and eastern Europe after studies pointed out such immigrants were
racially inferior, criminally inclined and didn't assimilate into America, Haub
said. That law decreed 82 percent of immigrants could come from northern and
western Europe, and only 16 percent from southern and eastern Europe.  Only 2
percent of immigrants could come from the eastern hemisphere, but literacy tests
(not applied to Europeans) and other prohibitions effectively kept out Asians.

    A landmark change was adopted in 1965. Since then, national origin has been
immaterial. Anybody who came to America and became a citizen or permanent
resident could invite his or her family to also become Americans parents,
spouses, children, brothers and sisters.

    Today, the largest traffic of immigrants comes not from Europe, but from
Mexico (20 percent), the Philippines, Vietnam, Korea, India, China, the
Dominican Republic, Jamaica, Iran and El Salvador.

    Still, immigration in the 1980s has broken some records too, Austin said.
The legalization of 3-million illegal immigrants in 1986 swelled the decade's
total to 10-million. In contrast, not more than 6-million people have immigrated
to America in any decade except between 1900 and 1910, when nearly 9-million
immigrants arrived.

    And despite the 1986 amnesty, there are 4-million illegal aliens living in
the United States. Some Americans believe that the country can absorb no more
newcomers and should drastically reduce or completely halt immigration.

    "This is no longer a nation that is being formed and filled," said John
Vinson, an official of the American Immigration Control Foundation in Monterey,
Va., a group that favors curtailing immigration. "When you build a house, you
may need a crew of carpenters and plumbers, but once it's built, you don't need
those kinds of services every day of the week."

    America's population increases by 1 percent every year, adding 2.3-million
people, said Haub of the population research group.  Immigration accounts for a
quarter of this increase.

    FAIR, the group that advocates halting immigration, maintains that
family-oriented quotas have brought in immigrants who are more likely to be
unemployed and depend on welfare.

    "The fault isn't in the immigrants, but in the way we selected them," said
Ray, the group's spokesman. "We designed a nepotistic system, and we're paying
for it." If the immigrants of the 1980s had all been skilled, America's national
income would be $ 12-billion more every year, Ray said, citing a study.

    But others say immigration is a part of America's heritage and isn't
burdensome. Past immigrants to America came to seek refuge from causes that were
little different: they fled poverty, persecution and the wars of Europe. And
they were joined by families who were often illiterate and unskilled. Poverty is
no longer accepted as a valid reason for coming to America, but new immigrants
come to join relatives or have been displaced by fighting in Vietnam and Central
America.

    "The people who come to America have to prove that they or their sponsor can
support them and they won't become a charge of the state," said Haub of the
Population Reference Bureau. Refugees are the only newcomers who depend on
social services.

    The AFL-CIO "has always had a pro-immigration position," said spokeswoman
Jane O'Grady. Some recent literature has pointed out that Americans have spent
more on welfare and been displaced by jobs lost to newcomers, but illegal
immigration is the culprit, she said.

    "Our view is that all the workers in America are products of immigration,"
O'Grady said. "We all came from somewhere."

LOAD-DATE: November 11, 1992

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: COLOR GRAPH, DON MORRIS; graph illustrating the major immigration
movements since 1820, how many left and why, with a photo of a family of
immigrants

                            Times Publishing Company


                              27 of 187 DOCUMENTS

                         St. Petersburg Times (Florida)

                     January 2, 1996, Tuesday, City Edition

America should do more to protect its own borders

SECTION: EDITORIAL; LETTERS; Pg. 13A

LENGTH: 1969 words



After reading the Times' and other articles relating to this nation's
immigration policy, it's apparent that our government has little control over
its borders.

This nation's government has allowed hundreds of thousands of unproductive
Third World immigrants to enter this country - immigrants who have little
education, few trades or even wish to speak our language. To many Americans,  it
seems strange, if not treasonable, that a nation fails to protect its own
borders and then doesn't hesitate to spend millions - and American lives - to
protect the borders of other nations.

Should the above sound like voices from the past, it is. Those words were
spoken and written by the brave people who fought against the British, against
taxes and, above all, for the borders that make up this great nation.

Robert Smith, Largo

Immigrant surcharge

      Re: Congress begins citizenship debate, Dec. 14.

  Since so many of our citizens feel that illegal immigrants deserve  protection
under the 14th Amendment, the solution to the funding problems  seems simple
enough.

According to the article, Florida spends $ 2.5-billion on immigrants,  one-third
of whom are illegal.

Let the state impose a surcharge on each taxpayer to help fund some of the
costs. When people have to pay for the costs of welfare directly out of their
pockets, new attitudes about this sorry state of affairs may emerge.

Peter Sbashnig, Spring Hill

We know about Bosnia

      Snide Mike Royko (Foreign affairs draws blank stares, Dec. 23) says
"Americans are the most uninformed and ignorant people ever" and do not know
where Bosnia is.

Most Americans know that Bosnia is a part of the former Yugoslavia where
America rushed to "recognize" the break-away states of Bosnia and Croatia
because Russia, fearing civil war, was against such breakup. The resulting
civil war was reported in every newspaper in America, complete with graphic
details of mass murder and rape. Three years(!) later, America finally used  the
good offices of the United Nations to try to stop the carnage we helped  induce
- and most American papers oppose this one rare act of international  decency
and humanity.

Although "most" Americans do not know the details, they do know where  Bosnia
is. They also know it is better to use our expensive, professionally  trained
soldiers to try to stop war than to fight one, and that it is the  decent thing
to do. As to its cost, our professional soldiers are paid whether  they are in
Bosnia or Virginia.

Milton H. Aronson, St. Pete Beach

   Re: In the Heartland, foreign affairs draws blank stares, Dec. 23.

This is the most insulting and hurtful article I have ever had the  misfortune
to read. Where were the editors that they let this be printed? An  apology and
retraction should be forthcoming. I am not from the "Heartland"  but from the
Boston area, and I feel very deeply this hurtful insult to my  fellow Americans.



Betty Swift, St. Petersburg

Circus has the media trained

   It's that time of year when all of the local media will give extensive and
free coverage to the Ringling Bros. and Barnum & Bailey Circus. (An ad the  size
of the color photo on page 1B, Dec. 19, of the Bengal tiger "currently  in
training with Ringling Bros. and Barnum & Bailey Circus" would have cost a
paying customer $ 5,700, according to your advertising department.) The caption

 states the tiger's "rompwas to promote the circus." And the St. Petersburg
Times obliges - free of charge.

And the free promotion continues. A look at the Times on just about any day  the
circus is in town will confirm that. No doubt we will see photos of the
elephants parading to the Bayfront Center - but we won't see them chained in
foul-smelling, dark railroad cars where they spend months traveling thousands
of miles standing in their own excrement unable to move.

We'll see colorful photos in the Weekend section of women in spangled  costumes
dangling from elephants' trunks and we'll see lions and tigers  jumping through
fiery hoops - but we won't see any photos of the cats  neurotically pacing back
and forth in the small cages in which they're  confined for life. And we won't
see the elephants chained for days behind the  Bayfront Center, lined up like
cars in a parking lot.

If we did, we would see that this archaic form of entertainment is not  really
the greatest show on earth.

Marilyn Weaver, Clearwater

Circus teaches wrong lessons

   The circus is coming to town once again, dragging with it elephants in
chains and big cats in small cages. As a public schoolteacher I am concerned
about what lessons children will learn about how we should treat animals,
especially those species that are threatened or endangered.

Most teachers, particularly those who teach the life sciences, earth  sciences
or ecology, encourage their students to develop a respect for all  living things
and for the incredible, complex web of life upon which we all  depend.

The circus, of course, teaches the exact opposite lesson. Impressionable
children learn that it is perfectly all right to remove animals from their
natural environment, to force them to live in chains and cages, and to force
them by means of bull hooks, iron rods, whips and electric prods to perform
unnatural, stupid tricks designed to demonstrate that man can dominate and
control these great creatures.

Following an appearance of the Ringling Brothers and Barnum & Bailey Circus  to
Washington, D.C., the Society for the Prevention of Cruelty to Animals and  the
Washington, D.C., Humane Society issued a joint statement which read,  "The
shackled, caged and tormented lives of many circus animals is demeaning  and
cruel."

One trip to a circus that uses animal acts can undermine much of what we  are
trying to teach young people in the classroom.

Michael Furlong, Treasure Island

Circus values its animals

      I would like to respond to a letter (Circus cruelties, Dec. 26)
concerning the care and treatment of circus animals. Although the writer does
not mention Ringling Bros. and Barnum & Bailey by name, we are pleased to be
wintering at the Tampa Fairgrounds again this year and would like to respond  to
his statements.

For over 125 years, Ringling Bros. has cared for and worked with exotic  animals
and has come to be regarded as expert in the field of animal  husbandry. Our
performing animals are an important and beloved part of our  circus family, and
their care and well-being are a commitment we take very  seriously.

The letter writer asserts that circus animals "perform "tricks' completely
foreign to their nature." But, in fact, circus acts are designed to duplicate
each animal's natural movements and all training is done through positive
reinforcement - a method which requires mutual respect and trust between
trainer and animal and which is the centerpiece of the Ringling Bros.
philosophy. A trainer who abused his animals would put his own safety at risk
and would not get the results he desired.

The debate over the use of exotic animals in entertainment is not about  animal
welfare but about a difference of opinion. The combination of federal  animal
welfare statutes and state and local animal cruelty laws provides ample
protection to performing animals and allows for the prosecution of those who
neglect or mistreat the animals in their care. Ringling Bros. and Barnum &
Bailey meets or exceeds all standards under the Animal Welfare Act, and is
subject to periodic unannounced inspections. In the 30 years under current
ownership, Ringling Bros. has never been cited for abuse, neglect or
mistreatment of its animals.

Many animal rights groups oppose the use of animals in entertainment for  purely
philosophical reasons. Many of these same groups also oppose the use of  animals
for food, clothing and even medical research which may save human  lives. While
they are entitled to their opinion, we believe they represent the  minority and
we object to their unfounded allegations of mistreatment.

Our circus is one of the few places in the world where humans and exotic
animals work together in harmony. Ringling Bros. provides millions of  wide-eyed
children with their first real-life encounter with an elephant,  tiger, lion or
zebra. We believe that by exposing people to the wonder and  majesty of these
animals, we can heighten the public's awareness of the need  to protect and
conserve endangered species and their habitats.

Ringling Bros. and Barnum & Bailey is proud of its history working with  exotic
animals and the role it has played in introducing these magnificent  animals to
generation after generation of circus-goers and their families.

Andy Ireland, senior vice president, Corporate

Animal Policy & Development, Ringling Bros. and

Barnum & Bailey, Vienna, Va.

Problem drug pricing

   Re: Exorbitant drug cost.

We are Canadians. On Dec. 22, my wife had a Canadian prescription for  Beconase
Nasal Inhalant (16.8 grams) filled at Eckerd's in New Port Richey.  The charge
was $ 38.49. The identical prescription in Canada cost the  equivalent of $ 21
U.S. The drug product is not covered by our Canadian drug  plan.

The Eckerd pharmacist, when queried, could not provide an explanation for  the
80-percent cost differential.

Our government claims our universal health care programs are out of  control. If
this one example is representative of U.S. prescription charges,  then you must
have even more serious problems with your corresponding  programs.

Ronald Freestone, New Port Richey

A disturbing silence

      Re: 22 soldiers at Fort Bragg have links to extremists, Dec. 23.

At a time when the congressional right wing is getting much political  mileage
out of blaming "popular culture" and the "liberal media" for a  host of crimes
committed by impressionable young people, I find interesting  their deafening
silence on the subject of these racist murders by young  soldiers stationed in
the home state of Sen. Jesse "Segregation Forever"  Helms.

Michael F. Thomas, St. Petersburg

Are these joke words?

      Re: The "N" word and others.

The other night HBO aired a comedy program that featured black entertainers  and
a predominantly black audience. Every entertainer liberally sprinkled his  jokes
with the "N" word, the "F" word and the "M-F" word. Virtually  every sentence
included one, two or all three of these expressions. The  audience laughed. One
entertainer singled out a white woman and compared her  circumstances to the
late Nicole Brown Simpson. The audience laughed.

Are we sick? Do black people think it's okay to become angry when they hear  the
"N" word and yet on national television use the "N" word and worse
continuously? After watching this program, anyone would think that these
expressions are okay to use in common discussion as long as it's in a  "kidding"

 tone.

Outrageous, isn't it?

Wayne Andersen, Treasure Island

Share your opinions

   We invite readers to write to us. Letters for publication should be
addressed to Letters to the Editor, P.O. Box 1121, St. Petersburg, 33731.

They can be sent by E-mail to letterssptimes.com or they can be sent by fax  to
893-8675.

They should be brief and must include the writer's address and phone  number.
Please include a handwritten signature when possible.

Letters may be edited for clarity, taste and length. We regret that not all
letters can be printed.

LOAD-DATE: January 3, 1996

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: BLACK AND WHITE CARTOON, DON ADDIS; Spectators view a cage of smokers
at the zoo.

TYPE: LETTER

                    Copyright 1996 Times Publishing Company


                              28 of 187 DOCUMENTS

                         St. Petersburg Times (Florida)

                March 15, 1996, Friday, 0 South Pinellas Edition

Deadline approaches for immigrant cards

BYLINE: REENA SHAH STAMETS

SECTION: CITY & STATE; Pg. 4B

LENGTH: 367 words



Wednesday is the last day for immigrants bearing old wallet-sized "green  cards"

 - proof that they are legal permanent residents just a step away from
citizenship - to apply for new, tamper-resistant pink ones.

Blue cards, issued before 1979, become invalid next week, said James  Minton,
officer in charge of the Immigration and Naturalization Service's  regional
office in Tampa. White cards still will be valid, but eventually will  be
replaced by pink ones.

The change affects thousands of immigrants in the Tampa Bay area. "It  doesn't
mean that after Wednesday people with old cards stop being (legal)  residents,"
Minton said. "It just means that they could have trouble proving  it."

Immigrants returning from abroad could face extra scrutiny and find it hard  to
re-enter the United States.

They also could find it difficult to convince employers they are legal, and
could face problems applying for Social Security and other benefits, Minton
said.

There was such a profusion of different-looking "green cards" and so many
counterfeit ones that immigration authorities began replacing them with pink
ones three years ago, Minton said. The cards used to be green decades ago, but
despite several color changes since, they continue to be called green cards.

The INS had set March 20, 1995, as the deadline for immigrants with I-151  or
old cards to apply for this change, but that was extended a year because  many
people did not know about it.

The pink card has a photo I.D. with the right ear visible - which officials  say
apparently is a unique marker for identification - and a fingerprint. It  must
be renewed after 10 years.

The Tampa office takes about four months to issue new cards, Minton said.  Last
year, the office processed about 100 cards each month. This year, that  figure
is about 40 cards a month.

Applicants need to fill out a Form I-90, and submit it with a $ 75 fee. It is
waived for some cases of financial hardship.

The form must be returned in person because immigration officials need to  take
fingerprints.

For information and forms, visit the the INS office at 5509 Gray St. in  Tampa
or call (800) 755-0777.

LOAD-DATE: March 15, 1996

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DISTRIBUTION: CITY & STATE; METRO & STATE; TAMPA & STATE

GRAPHIC: BLACK AND WHITE PHOTO, (2); The new pink card for legal immigrants has
a photo I.D. and a fingerprint., (ran CITY & STATE, METRO & STATE); Blue cards
for legal immigrants, issued before 1979, (ran CITY & STATE, METRO & STATE)

                    Copyright 1996 Times Publishing Company


                              29 of 187 DOCUMENTS

                         St. Petersburg Times (Florida)

                March 22, 1996, Friday, 0 South Pinellas Edition

Reform bill backs off legal immigration

BYLINE: ELLEN DEBENPORT

SECTION: NATIONAL; Pg. 3A

LENGTH: 653 words



The House passed an enormous immigration reform bill Thursday but first
stripped out the section that would have cut legal immigration, which brings  in
more than 700,000 immigrants a year.

This dims the chance that Congress will address legal immigration this  year.
The Senate might produce a separate bill to cut legal immigration, but  it is
still in committee.

"Legal immigration is a basic building block in the cultural development  of the
United States," said Rep. Ileana Ros-Lehtinen, a Miami Republican who
immigrated from Cuba.

The reform bill, sponsored by Republican Lamar Smith and Democrat John  Bryant,
both of Texas, would have cut legal immigration by 20-30 percent after  five
years, mainly by forbidding immigrants to bring over their brothers,  sisters,
adult children and most parents.

"Why should just being a relative be the primary reason you get to come  here?"
said Rep. Bill McCollum, R-Longwood.

The bill also would have altered the system of hiring immigrants with  special
job skills and would have limited the number of refugees to 50,000,  about half
the recent rate.

Nearly everyone found something to dislike in the changes. With an  emotional
fight looming in an election year, the idea simply to leave legal  immigration
out of the bill won widespread support, from President Clinton to  the Christian
Coalition.

But the bill still bars legal immigrants from most forms of government aid.
Their sponsors would be financially responsible for them until they became
citizens.

Congress is enthusiastically trying to crack down on illegal immigrants,  and
the rest of the bill targets them. Three-million to 4-million are thought  to be
living here with about 300,000 more coming each year.

The House earlier agreed to let states bar illegal immigrant children from
public schools. It wants to test a verification program to check whether job
applicants are in the country legally. It also barred illegal immigrant  parents
from seeking welfare for their U.S. citizen children born here.

The House approved - by three votes - an amendment by Rep. Charles Canady,
R-Lakeland, to require certain immigrants to pass an English language test  when
they arrive. Those would be immigrants who have special job skills or  those in
the diversity program, which is a visa lottery for countries that  ordinarily
don't send many immigrants to the U.S.

Some preference also would be given to English-proficient spouses and  children
who are on long waiting lists to join immigrants already here.

"It is our common language that brings us together as a nation," said  Canady.

After more than an hour of shouting Thursday, the House rejected a proposed
farmworker program that would have allowed up to 250,000 migrants a year into
the country to pick crops.

Lots of conditions were attached. The growers were supposed to try to hire
Americans first, and the migrants were to go home after 10 months. One-quarter
of their pay would be sent to them after they arrived home.

"If it was not for the migrant workers, our farmers would not be able to
harvest their crops," said Rep. Walter Jones, R-N.C.

Others angrily disputed that foreign farm workers are needed when so many
Americans are unemployed.

"I thought the whole purpose of this bill was to cut down on people coming  into
this country," said Rep. Gene Taylor, D-Miss. The farmworker program  would be
"bringing in a bunch of Mexicans to take American jobs."

Many House members also doubted the farmworkers would ever go home.  How Florida
voted

Republicans: Bilirakis, Y; Canady, Y; Diaz-Balart, N; Foley, Y; Fowler, Y;
Goss, Y; McCollum, Y; Mica, Y; Miller, Y; Ros-Lehtinen, N; Scarborough, Y;
Shaw, Y; Stearns, Y; Weldon, Y; Young, Y.  Democrats: Brown, N; Deutsch, Y;
Gibbons, N; Hastings, N; Johnston, X; Meek,  N; Peterson, Y; Thurman, Y.

LOAD-DATE: March 22, 1996

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                    Copyright 1996 Times Publishing Company


                              30 of 187 DOCUMENTS

                         St. Petersburg Times (Florida)

                April 22, 1996, Monday, 0 South Pinellas Edition

And justice not for all immigrants

SECTION: EDITORIAL; EDITORIALS; Pg. 6A

LENGTH: 496 words



Fauziya Kasinga's case has been heard and rejected by asylum officers and
immigration judges of the U.S. Immigration and Naturalization Service, and now
she waits in a cold York, Pa., prison cell to go before the Board of
Immigration Appeals. Since arriving in this country two years ago from Africa
at the age of 17, Kasinga has been shackled, imprisoned, denied clean  underwear
and put in an isolation cell for performing the morning Muslim  ritual of
washing her hands to pray. Last year during a melee at Esmor  Detention Center,
she was beaten and tear-gassed.

Kasinga was strip-searched and put in maximum security when her quest for
political asylum ended at Esmor. Her crime? She was fleeing female genital
mutilation in her country after an arranged marriage by an aunt, and she  lacked
proper documents when she arrived in the United States.

Women who leave their native country because of the cultural ritual of  genital
mutilation are a rarity. While the Immigration and Naturalization  Service has
issued a policy that allows asylum officers to consider female  genital
mutilations when they adjudicate asylum claims for women, the policy  is not
binding on immigration judges. "If they were serious, why weren't they  issued
as binding regulations?" Kasinga's attorney, Karen Musalo, asked.

This painful story of an innocent woman who arrived on these shores  expecting
justice after fleeing cultural injustice is not unique. Immigrants  fleeing
political persecution, who arrive without family ties or proper  documentation,
often end up behind bars.

The picture worsens under the immigration and anti-terrorism bills Congress  is
considering. "If Congress has its way, we won't even know about the  Fauziya
Kasinga stories in the future," Musalo says. "When they arrive at  the airport,
they will have a one-hour interview with an officer whose  decision will be
reviewed by his supervisor. If the supervisor agrees that the  person should not
be allowed into the country, they will be put back on the  plane immediately."

Kasinga's dilemma is another graphic example of the inexcusable flaws in  our
immigration policies. Many desperate asylum seekers have been imprisoned  or
turned away because of arbitrary distinctions between "political" and
"economic" refugees. Others, such as Kasinga, have been denied because
immigration rules do not properly account for the horror of female genital
mutilation.

The so-called immigration reforms now being considered by Congress do not
provide for a comprehensive overhaul of the policies that have made the quest
for political asylum so confusing and frustrating for many legitimate  refugees.
But even the problems with the current rules cannot account for the  inhumane
treatment Fauziya Kasinga has received from the government that she  had hoped
would protect her. She asks, as do we: What has she done wrong to be  imprisoned
for two years?

LOAD-DATE: April 23, 1996

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: EDITORIAL

                    Copyright 1996 Times Publishing Company


                              31 of 187 DOCUMENTS

                         St. Petersburg Times (Florida)

                             May 1, 1996, Wednesday

Senate maintains welcome for Cubans

BYLINE: ELLEN DEBENPORT

SECTION: NATIONAL; Pg. 10A

LENGTH: 544 words



 Immigration reform will keep a law allowing anyone from Cuba to become a
permanent U.S. resident.

Florida's two senators amended the Senate's massive immigration reform bill
Tuesday to make sure Cubans are welcomed more warmly to the United States than
immigrants from anywhere else.

Although the world has changed, Cubans are still fleeing a communist dictator in
our own back yard and deserve a safe haven, Democratic Sen. Bob Graham argued.

This has been the law since 1966. The Senate agreed 62-37 Tuesday to preserve
the Cuban Adjustment Act with the backing of both President Clinton and
Republican Sen. Bob Dole. With Florida up for grabs in the November presidential
election, both men have been paying close attention to the Cuban community and
the Everglades.

Graham joined forces with Republican Sen. Connie Mack to preserve the act, which
would have been wiped out in the immigration bill being considered in the
Senate.

The act allows anyone from Cuba to become a permanent legal resident - with the
coveted work permit or "green card" - after a year in the United States.
Permanent residents also may qualify for welfare and sponsor their relatives to
join them.

The act was designed in the 1960s for refugees escaping Castro's regime. They
were admitted with something called parole status, then adjusted to permanent
status after a year, hence the name.

It has remained in effect, granting permanent status to Cubans who arrived on
rafts or escaped in small planes or who came to the U.S. to visit and simply
stayed. They all could become legal residents and still can.

The sponsor of the immigration bill, Sen. Alan Simpson, R-Wyo., said the
adjustment act is a remnant of the past and now only encourages illegal
immigration.

"No other group or nationality in the world, even among some of our most brutal
adversaries, . . . is able to get a green card merely by coming to the United
States legally or illegally and remaining here for a year," he said.

Refugees from other regimes have to prove they are being persecuted.

The adjustment act has been under attack for years, and immigration officials
have agreed with Simpson that it is no longer needed.

But Graham said, "The law should be retained until democracy returns to Cuba."

He won strong support from Florida's two Cuban-American members of Congress,
Ileana Ros-Lehtinen and Lincoln Diaz-Balart, both Miami Republicans.

Until recently, the United States would accept any Cuban who managed to get
here. Clinton changed that a year ago when he agreed to let more than 30,000
Cuban rafters encamped at Guantanamo Bay Naval Base into the United States. He
said that from now on, 20,000 Cubans a year would be admitted to the United
States through legal channels, but any others, including rafters, would be
turned back.

Simpson's bill allowed those 20,000 to become permanent residents even without
Graham's amendment. But the adjustment act is still needed for Cubans already
here who are not yet permanent residents, a Graham aide said.

When the House passed its somewhat different version of immigration reform, the
Cuban Adjustment Act didn't come up. So the act apparently will survive, no
matter what else Congress does with immigration law this year.

LOAD-DATE: May 7, 1996

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                    Copyright 1996 Times Publishing Company


                              32 of 187 DOCUMENTS

                         St. Petersburg Times (Florida)

                              May 5, 1996, Sunday

Reform gone awry

SECTION: PERSPECTIVE; EDITORIALS; Pg. 2D

LENGTH: 684 words



Our country's immigration laws are badly in need of wholesale reform, but the
respective bills approved by the House and Senate are mishmashes that are in
many respects steps backward from the status quo. The House legislation in
particular contains inhumane and counterproductive provisions that would
warrant a presidential veto. Unless the worst elements of these bills are
jettisoned in the reconciliation process, the country would be better off if
the effort to rewrite our immigration laws started from scratch again next
year.

Both the House and Senate versions fail to meet what should be one of the  basic
tasks of immigration reform: bringing fairness and consistency to our
government's treatment of political refugees. Election-year politics can be
blamed for one of the most glaring distortions in the proposed legislation.
Florida Sens. Bob Graham and Connie Mack led the effort last week to add an
amendment that perpetuates an indefensible favor to the Cuban-American
community, but President Clinton and Bob Dole were co-panderers, too.

Until it was amended, the Senate legislation would have done away with the
Cuban Adjustment Act. The act, which became law 30 years ago, allows any
illegal immigrant from Cuba to become a permanent legal resident after  spending
a year in this country. This uncommon generosity to one privileged  class of
illegal immigrants has always stood in stark contrast to the  reception our
government gives refugees from every other corner of the globe.  Those seeking
asylum on our shores from genocide, political death squads and  various other
forms of inhumanity have not been able to rely on the warm  welcome that Cubans
receive as a matter of law.

That double standard would become even more dramatic if provisions  contained in
the House legislation become law. They would give immigration  officers at each
port of entry the individual power to deny the asylum claim  of an immigrant
(from any country other than Cuba) who arrives in the United  States without
valid travel documents. Such immigrants could be deported on  the spot without
judicial review.

At least one other provision in the House bill is intolerable. It would  allow
states to deny public education to the children of illegal immigrants.  That
provision isn't just uncharitable. By turning children onto the streets,  it
would create potential health and safety nightmares for many American
communities.

Both the House and Senate bills also include new restrictions on federal
benefits to legal immigrants. Sponsors of new immigrants would be required to
take on expanded financial obligations, and immigrants who receive welfare for
more than a year during their first five years in this country could be
deported. Sen. Bob Graham, one of only three senators to vote against the
Senate bill, correctly fears that its proposed cuts in federal support to  legal
immigrants would create new burdens on state and local governments.

Both bills include some welcome changes: a pilot identification program  that
would make it more difficult for businesses to get away with employing  illegal
immigrants; tougher penalties for those who smuggle immigrants into  our
country; money to pay for thousands of new Border Patrol agents and new
programs to improve the security of our borders.

The bills also rejected sponsors' efforts to make drastic cuts in the  number of
legal immigrants allowed into the country each year. Legal  immigration has long
been a crucial asset to this country, and it should not  become a victim of
efforts to control the flow of illegals across our borders.

However, the true reforms of these bills are not yet enough to redeem them.
Other provisions would harm children and deny to most refugees the democratic
processes that helped build this nation of immigrants. Congressional
negotiators still have a chance to salvage the best elements of these two  bills
and reject the worst ones. If they fail that task, President Clinton  should
have his veto pen handy.

LOAD-DATE: May 8, 1996

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: EDITORIAL

                    Copyright 1996 Times Publishing Company


                              33 of 187 DOCUMENTS

                         St. Petersburg Times (Florida)

                    January 12, 1989, Thursday, City Edition

Two Marine officers punished over death

SECTION: NATIONAL; UPDATE; Pg. 8A

LENGTH: 465 words

DATELINE: WASHINGTON; BROWNSVILLE, Texas; DALLAS



WASHINGTON - The Marine Corps punished two more officers Wednesday for
abandoning a lance corporal in the California desert where he died last
summer. A spokesman said the commanding officer of the corporal's    battalion,
Lt. Col. E. J. Robeson, and the battalion's executive    officer, Major T. L.
Holm, would be relieved of their duties Friday.

 Two junior officers have been relieved of duty; a third is being
investigated under the military equivalent of a grand jury, and a    sergeant
faces court-martial. Charges against another sergeant,    Christopher P. Clyde,
were temporarily withdrawn Wednesday after his    attorney argued the court
reflected a conflict of interest because it    was convened by Robeson.



 Judge extends    travel for aliens

 BROWNSVILLE, Texas - A judge Wednesday extended for three weeks the    period
in which Central American asylum-seekers can leave southern    Texas, where an
immigration policy was blamed for trapping hundreds in    desperate conditions.
U.S. District Judge Filemon Vela postponed until    Jan. 31 a hearing in a suit
filed last week against the Immigration and    Naturalization Service (INS). The
hearing had been scheduled for today,    when a temporary restraining order
against the INS policy was to    expire. The Dec. 16 INS policy required
asylum-seekers to stay close to    the application center nearest their point of
entry while requests are    considered.



 HUD releases more    land for homeless

 WASHINGTON - The Department of Housing and Urban Development (HUD)    released
38 federal properties Wednesday for use by state and local    governments and
non-profit organizations to provide shelters for the    homeless. The agency's
action came in response to a Dec. 14 order    issued by U.S. District Judge
Oliver Gasch, who told HUD to review more    than 300 properties in the General
Services Administration inventory to    determine their suitability for use by
the homeless. "Today's action    brings to 148 the number of properties (65
buildings and 83 land sites)    in GSA's inventory that HUD had judged
suitable," HUD said. State and    local governments and nonprofit groups may
submit applications to use    the properties to GSA and the Department of Health
and Human Services,    which will oversee the program. HUD is also reviewing
more than 1,600    other properties.



 Tower is released    from hospital

 DALLAS - Defense Secretary-designate John Tower was released from a    hospital
Wednesday, a week after entering for removal of a colon polyp,    a spokesman
said. A biopsy of the growth showed it was benign.



LOAD-DATE: November 9, 1992

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: DIGEST

                            Times Publishing Company


                              34 of 187 DOCUMENTS

                         St. Petersburg Times (Florida)

                    February 13, 1989, Monday, City Edition

One if by land, none if by sea

SECTION: EDITORIAL; Editorials; Pg. 14A

LENGTH: 666 words



Large numbers of refugees from Haiti and Nicaragua are desperate to    enter the
United States. Both groups are technically ineligible for    political asylum
status. Yet, as St. Petersburg Times reporter Barry    Klein learned last week,
Nicaraguans who do apply for political asylum    are 15 times more likely than
Haitians to get it.

     The most obvious reason for the disparity is political. Immigration
officials say Haitian refugees can't set foot on American soil because    they
seek "economic opportunity," not freedom from political    repression. The
distinction between these two motives is among the    broad guidelines of
American immigration policy, and it isn't always    , easy to make. In this
case, the United States has traditionally    maintained relations with Haitian
dictators, looking the other way    while the island's hapless citizens have
been tortured, murdered,    disenfranchised and ruthlessly exploited. Haiti, the
human rights    disgrace of the Western Hemisphere, has never been the focus of
    American military and diplomatic indignation.

     Some would argue that such less-than-benign neglect is preferable    to the
political attention lavished on another luckless neighbor,    Nicaragua. After
the lengthy tug-of-war between the Sandinistas and the    U.S.-financed Contras,
a number of Nicaraguans have concluded that the    best direction for them is
out. Thousands have already found their way    to South Florida, and the U.S.
Immigration and Naturalization Service    (INS) anticipates another 100,000 by
mid-1989.

     Immigration officials say the problem is impersonal and    bureaucratic,
and has nothing to do with the fact that Haitians as a    group are more
dark-skinned than Nicaraguans. They also say that    Haitians are more easily
turned away because they approach by boat or    plane and can be "excluded"
before they reach American soil.

 Nicaraguans, on the other hand, arrive by land and must be    "deported," a
much more complicated process.

     Once here, though, Spanish-speaking immigrants seem to get more    help
with jobs and essential services than do equally disadvantaged    Creole
speakers from the Caribbean. Observers call the disparity    racism, and some
say it has contributed to the tension that exploded    last month in Miami when
a Hispanic police officer caused the deaths of    two unarmed black men on a
motorcycle.

      South Florida cities, particularly Miami, are clearly overstressed    by
the immigration trend that has continued unabated since the late    1970s. The
federal government's refugee resettlement policies have    provided some relief,
but only for those refugees who qualify under the    same narrow definitions
used to turn the Haitians away. Much of that    money has gone to the Cuban
political prisoners released by Castro,    some of whom will never be able to
live independently. Now the federal    government is threatening to terminate
that aid, leaving Miami to    support even the legal refugees as best it can.

     Meanwhile, the Haitian "refuseniks" continue to risk their lives    in
overcrowded wooden boats - as 148 did two weeks ago - only to be    turned away
before they reach American soil. No amount of bureaucratic    red tape can
obscure the ugly fact that their skin color contributes to    the difference
between a helping hand and a hands-off attitude.

     The federal government should act now to review a policy that lets    15
Nicaraguans remain in Florida for every one Haitian who is granted    the
privilege of living in freedom. Federal, state and local officials    should
also reach out to help those Haitians who are already struggling    to survive
in America, acknowledging that racism has contributed to the    double standard
they are forced to endure.



LOAD-DATE: November 9, 1992

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: EDITORIAL

                            Times Publishing Company


                              35 of 187 DOCUMENTS

                         St. Petersburg Times (Florida)

                     April 6, 1989, Thursday, State Edition

INS rejects bid for freedom for Dutch visitor with AIDS

SECTION: NATIONAL; UPDATE; Pg. 10A

LENGTH: 580 words

DATELINE: STILLWATER, Minn.; CAPE CANAVERAL; DALLAS



STILLWATER, Minn. - Immigration officials refused Wednesday to free    from
prison a Dutch visitor who says he has AIDS, saying that allowing    him to
attend a forum on the disease might endanger the health of    others. "Parole is
an extreme item that would be used only in extreme    circumstances," said Tom
Schiltgen, district director of the    Immigration and Naturalization Service
(INS), explaining his rejection    of the request from Hans Paul Verhoef.
However, Schiltgen said a    decision is likely today on Verhoef's request for a
waiver from    immigration laws denying United States entry to individuals with
    dangerous contagious disease. Schiltgen said that to grant a waiver,    the
INS must verify that Verhoef's disease does not pose a health    threat and that
the U.S. government would not incur expenses for    Verhoef's care. Verhoef
wants to attend a conference on AIDS in San    Francisco.



 Astronauts at Cape for training

 CAPE CANAVERAL - The five astronauts who will fly the first space    shuttle
planetary mission assembled Wednesday for three days of    training, including a
practice countdown. Commander Dave Walker, pilot    Ron Grabe and Norm Thagard
flew in from the Johnson Space Center in    Houston to join Mary Cleave and Mark
Lee, who arrived earlier in the    week. NASA lists April 28 as the target for
launching the shuttle    Atlantis, but preparations have been running behind
schedule and    officials expect liftoff will slip as much as four days.



 2 'Blue Line' prosecutors resign

 DALLAS - Two prosecutors involved in the case of The Thin Blue Line
defendant Randall Dale Adams have resigned. The Dallas Morning News    quoted
Wednesday an unidentified source who said the assistant district    attorneys'
resignations this week were related to the office's handling    of the case. The
two were identified as John Creuzot, 31, and Leslie    McFarlane, 32. The
district attorney's office had come under national    scrutiny for its handling
of Adams' conviction and retrial attempts.

 Adams was imprisoned for 12 years, and at one time was condemned to    death,
for a 1976 slaying. He was freed March 22 and the state    announced the next
day that he would not be retried because of a lack    of evidence and witnesses.




 Travel waiver is refused for Dutch visitor with AIDS

 STILLWATER, Minn. - Immigration officials rejected a waiver Wednesday    that
would have released a Dutch visitor taken into custody because he    said he has
AIDS. An attorney for the visitor, Hans Paul Verhoef, then    asked for a parole
procedure under which Verhoef would be allowed to    attend an AIDS conference
in San Francisco, but then must return to the    Minnesota prison until the case
is resolved. Dean Hovie, Immigration    and Naturalization Service assistant
district director in the    Bloomington office, conferred with the U.S. attorney
general's office    in Washington to determine whether a parole would be
granted, said    Verhoef's attorney, Jonathan Burris. Hovie could not be
immediately    reached for comment. For years, immigration laws have required
people    who want to enter the United States to establish they have no
.  dangerous, contagious diseases. Congress added AIDS to that list of
diseases in 1987.



LOAD-DATE: November 9, 1992

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: BLACK AND WHITE PHOTO; Randall Dale ADAMS

TYPE: DIGEST

                            Times Publishing Company


                              36 of 187 DOCUMENTS

                         St. Petersburg Times (Florida)

                      July 16, 1989, Sunday, City Edition

Senators reject measures altering immigration bill

SOURCE: Congressional Quarterly

SECTION: NATIONAL; HOW CONGRESS VOTED; Pg. 4A

LENGTH: 237 words



Here is how Florida's U.S. senators voted on two recent immigration    measures:

        The Senate on Wednesday rejected 43-56 an amendment that would have
eliminated 4,600 visas set aside for wealthy would-be immigrants who    promised
to create at least 10 new jobs by investing $ 1-million in the    United States.


     The provision is part of the 1989 U.S. immigration-overhaul bill,    which
easily passed the Senate on Thursday.  The legislation is designed    to
increase the flow of skilled and educated workers into the United    States and
update immigration laws.

     Both Mack, a Republican, and Graham, a Democrat, voted against the
amendment to delete the provision.



   The Senate on Thursday turned back an attempt to give preferential
treatment to immigrants with English-language proficiency. The    provision,
which was offered as an amendment to the    immigration-overhaul bill, was
defeated 43-56.

     The amendment would have applied only to the roughly 9 percent of
immigration applications that are decided on the basis of points.

 Applicants receive points for qualities such as age, education and work
experience, and the provision would have given points for    English-language
proficiency.

     Both Mack (R) and Graham (D) voted against the English-language
amendment.



LOAD-DATE: November 9, 1992

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                            Times Publishing Company


                              37 of 187 DOCUMENTS

                         St. Petersburg Times (Florida)

                   September 16, 1989, Saturday, City Edition

State Department official defends immigration limits

SECTION: NATIONAL; WASHINGTON DIGEST; Pg. 5A

LENGTH: 498 words



A senior State Department official vehemently defended U.S. immigration
policy for Soviet Jews on Friday, while calling on other countries to    share
the burden by offering a home to some recent emigres. "I resent    the
implication that we have some heartless, niggardly, conservative    approach to
this problem," Deputy Secretary of State Lawrence    Eagleburger said. He was
responding to criticism from Congress and    Jewish organizations of the
administration's plan to admit 50,000    Soviet immigrants in fiscal year 1990,
which begins Oct. 1. "There are    limits on the numbers we can take," he said
at a hearing of the Senate    Judiciary subcommittee on immigration.



 Bush 'flexible' on anti-drug plan

 President Bush promised Friday to be flexible amid Democratic demands    for an
increase in anti-drug spending, while the Rev. Jesse Jackson    charged that
black leaders had been left out of the president's drug    war planning. Bush
said he still prefers the $ 7.9-billion drug-control    package he announced
last week, but added: "We're flexible." Jackson,    testifying on Capitol Hill,
told lawmakers that the "Bush plan does    not wage war on material and
spiritual poverty, which are the    preconditions for the drug crisis." The
remarks came as Senate    negotiators of both parties met to reach a financing
compromise.



 Panel charges fraud at FAA

 A House panel charged Friday that FAA officials lied under oath about
payroll records prepared during the 1981 controllers' strike and in    some
instances doctored time sheets to cheat the controllers. The    committee asked
the Justice Department to investigate. Faced with    insufficient documentation
to justify controller firings to the Merit    Systems Protection Board, Federal
Aviation Administration officials in    Chicago created attendance records to
bolster their cases, lawmakers    concluded. The report by the Public Works and
Transportation    subcommittee on investigations and oversight capped a
three-year probe.

 FAA spokesman John Leyden declined comment except to say, "The FAA has
received the report and will review it."



 Anti-pollution plan unveiled

 President Bush's smog-reduction plan got some competition Friday as a
bipartisan group of senators unveiled a rival bill to cut auto    pollution and
set new deadlines for cities to clean their air. The    measure, supported by
Majority Leader George J. Mitchell, D-Maine,    differs from the Bush approach
on automobile pollution but takes a    similar tack on setting cleanup
timetables for smog-choked cities. Sen.    Max Baucus, D-Mont., the bill's chief
sponsor, said the Bush plan    "won't get us across the finish line" in
improving air quality. He    predicted the new proposal would cut auto emissions
by 50 percent by    the year 2000.



LOAD-DATE: November 9, 1992

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: DIGEST

                            Times Publishing Company


                              38 of 187 DOCUMENTS

                         St. Petersburg Times (Florida)

                   January 20, 1993, Wednesday, City Edition

Baby sitters and legal 'technicalities'

BYLINE: MARTIN DYCKMAN

SECTION: EDITORIAL; COLUMNS; Pg. 15A

LENGTH: 773 words



Our ad for a full-time babysitter was not getting good results.

One caller had been let go from her last job. The more she talked, the more  it
was obvious why.

Another, between giggles, confessed she was only 15.

"Didn't you see," I asked, "that the ad said "mature?' "

"I'm mature," she said. More giggles.

That was how we came to hire a lady whose immigration status was, let us  say,
ambiguous. She had overstayed her visa and was trying to get it renewed.  She
had no green card. But she did have a Social Security card, we did pay the  tax
and the law at the time imposed no sanctions on employers. Thus we were  legal,
even if she was not.

But if President Clinton were to ask me to head the Immigration and
Naturalization Service (INS), I think I would have to tell him, "More trouble
you don't need. Better find someone else."

I am not entirely unsympathetic to Zoe Baird. No working parent who has  ever
faced a child-care crisis could be. There aren't many Mary Poppinses out  there.

Baird, Clinton's nominee for attorney general, spent Tuesday explaining to  the
Senate Judiciary Committee why she and her husband, a law professor, had  broken
the law that now makes it illegal to employ undocumented aliens.

It is a story many another well-connected parent could tell. The "yuppie
mistake," some call it.

They had advertised local "prevailing wages" for a live-in sitter. No one
wanted the job. So they hired an undocumented woman from Peru, whose husband
came along as their driver, on the advice of an attorney that it would be only
a "technical violation" of the law. Something above a speeding ticket,  perhaps,
but less than a crime. They got the Labor Department to certify that  no
domestic workers were available, which got the woman a place on the INS  waiting
list. Meanwhile, they paid her $ 13,000 a year and her husband a like  amount,
plus room and board. On legal advice again - more bad advice as it  turned out -
they paid no Social Security taxes, intending to pay them after  she got her
Social Security card.

It was a straightforward story, underscored by Baird's equally  straightforward
admission that "I clearly was wrong" and shouldn't have done  it.

She said she was "acting more as a mother than someone who would be  sitting
here to be confirmed as attorney general."

The only element missing, perhaps, was one simple question no senator  thought
to ask: Did it ever occur to this pair of highly accomplished lawyers,  with a
household income of more than $ 500,000 a year, to offer something more  than
"prevailing wages?"

Were Baird up for any other position in the government, her misstep might  be no
big deal.

But the attorney general is, among other things, the boss of the INS, which
enforces the law she and her husband flouted.

What a message that sends.

A woman I know holds a senior position in a sensitive government agency.  She is
also a working parent who pays her sitter more than $ 24,000 a year -  including
Social Security and health insurance - on a far smaller salary than  Baird
earned as general counsel for Aetna. Here is what she thinks.

"For every woman who has tried to be concerned about child care and stay  legal,
this business about a "technical violation' strikes a raw nerve," she  said.
"It's no mere technicality.. . . You either change the laws or you  follow
them."

Even so, she was unsure how she would vote on Baird if she were a senator.

So am I.

Compared to the baggage other nominees have lugged before the Judiciary
Committee - remember Ed Meese and Clarence Thomas? - Baird's transgression is
minor. It would be cruelly ironic if the committee that approved Thomas were  to
sack her. That prospect, in any case, is remote. Sen. Orrin Hatch of Utah,  a
key Republican, was eager to dismiss the episode as an "honest mistake"  and
promise Baird his support.

What he said next made it painfully clear why Clinton should have found  another
candidate after learning about Baird's babysitter. Hatch said he hopes  that
when Baird becomes attorney general her personal experience would lead  her to
remind zealous U.S. attorneys about how difficult it can be for people  to do
everything just right "in this complex, legal-ridden society."

In other words, if a prospective attorney general cannot be expected to know
and obey the law, who can be?

The immigration law today, the tax laws tomorrow?

Clinton should have anticipated that.

At least Baird has conceded her mistake.

Will Clinton?

Martin Dyckman is associate editor of the Times.

LOAD-DATE: January 23, 1993

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: COLUMN

                            Times Publishing Company


                              39 of 187 DOCUMENTS

                         St. Petersburg Times (Florida)

                     March 11, 1993, Thursday, City Edition

Unless immigration rules tightened, terror in U.S. could spread

BYLINE: JACK R. PAYTON

SECTION: NATIONAL; Pg. 2A

LENGTH: 846 words

DATELINE: WASHINGTON



A few thoughts on terrorism right here in the good old United States:

First, it seems fairly clear that the people arrested so far in connection  with
the bombing of New York's World Trade Center last month are small fish at  best.
They may even be innocent dupes.

Judging from the way they were tracked down, it's safe to say they aren't
professional terrorists. It's also a good bet that the real brains behind the
Trade Center bombing are long gone from these shores.

Second, it turns out that some of the people implicated in the latest  terror
attacks - at the World Trade Center and outside CIA headquarters in  Langley,
Va. - were in the country illegally. Either their visas had expired  or they had
gotten the visa through false pretenses.

That raises the question about whether we're keeping close enough tabs on
people entering this country and whether we shouldn't have quicker ways to
deport those who defraud the system.

But before we get into the problems at the Immigration and Naturalization
Service, let's consider the three people arrested as of Wednesday in  connection
with the World Trade Center attack.

We've all had a good laugh by now over Mohammed Salameh, the 25-year-old
Palestinian who was arrested when he tried to get back his $ 400 deposit on the

 rented van used to bomb the Trade Center. When you add in the fact that
Salameh rented the van under his real name, you're almost forced to conclude
one of three things - either he's not too bright, he's an innocent dupe or  he's
just plain innocent.

The same goes for Nidal Ayyad, a 25-year-old naturalized U.S. citizen of
Palestinian origin arrested Wednesday in New Jersey. Ayyad is a chemical
engineer whose business card was found on Salameh when he was arrested last
week. FBI officials say Ayyad had the expertise to build a bomb and had access
along with Salameh to the New Jersey storage shed where police found explosive
chemicals that may have been used to make the Trade Center bomb.

You also might not put too much hope in the arrest of Ibrahim Elgabrowny, a
42-year-old Egyptian who fought with federal agents when they tried to search
his New Jersey apartment last week.

My hunch about all three is that while they might have had a hand in the  Trade
Center blast, they certainly weren't the brains behind the operation.  Any way
you look at it, no experienced terrorists would have been so sloppy in  covering
their tracks.

I had lunch this week with an old acquaintance who lived in Beirut for many
years and who knows as much as anybody about how terrorists go about their
business. His hunch was pretty much the same as mine - the real organizers of
the New York attack are long gone, probably back home in Tehran, Cairo or some
other Middle East capital.

Egypt comes to mind, of course, because Salameh, Elgabrowny and possibly  Ayyad
were followers of Omar Abdel-Rahman, an Islamic fundamentalist preacher  whose
followers have been trying to overthrow the government of Egypt. Rahman  sneaked
into this country three years ago and ever since he has been using his  safe
haven in New Jersey to incite more violence against the civilian  authorities in
Cairo.

Thinking about Rahman brings up my second subject: America's seemingly
lackadaisical attitude about people who enter or stay in the country  illegally.

Rahman, for instance, got his tourist visa to enter the United States under
false pretenses in Sudan. U.S. authorities are partly to blame. Even though  the
blind preacher's name was on a watch list of terrorist suspects supposed  to
have been refused entry, he got in anyway.

Another terrorist suspect who apparently stayed in the country illegally  was
Mir Aimal Kansi, the 28-year-old Pakistani accused of killing two CIA  employees
outside the agency's Virginia headquarters in January.

These two men, and others, raise the obvious questions:

First, isn't there some system to keep track of when people's visas expire?
Second, when we find out that somebody is in the country illegally, how come  it
takes years to deport them, even when they've been involved in crimes?

In answer to the first question, officials at the Immigration and
Naturalization Service say they can't possibly keep track of the tens of
millions of foreigners who enter the United States each year.

As for the second question, INS officials say the law on deportation  procedures
almost guarantees lengthy legal challenges. Until the law is  changed, they say,
shortcuts are impossible.

Deportation proceedings against Rahman, for example, were begun shortly  after
he entered the country in 1990 and there's no end in sight yet.

Back in the 1960s, the United States sometimes refused entry to rock stars  such
as John Lennon or George Harrison because they smoked pot overseas. These  days,
we can't even seem to keep out known terrorists.

If, as some predict, the World Trade Center blast is the first shot in a  wave
of terrorism in the United States, we're in for real trouble.

LOAD-DATE: March 17, 1993

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: COLUMN

                            Times Publishing Company


                              40 of 187 DOCUMENTS

                         St. Petersburg Times (Florida)

                     March 18, 1993, Thursday, City Edition

Trade Center reopening to get under way today

SOURCE: Compiled from Times Wires

SECTION: NATIONAL; Pg. 1A

LENGTH: 256 words

DATELINE: NEW YORK



One of the World Trade Center's twin 110-story towers will begin reopening
today.

That's well ahead of schedule after the Feb. 26 bombing. Officials had said  it
might be April before the towers would reopen, since the bombing crippled  vital
communications and safety systems.

The first tenant to return today will be Gov. Mario Cuomo, whose office is  on
the 57th floor.

Two suspects in the bombing were indicted by a federal grand jury  Wednesday,
and an extremist Muslim cleric who preaches at the Jersey City,  N.J., mosque
where the suspects worship was ordered deported from the United  States.

The indictment returned Wednesday against Mohammed Salameh and Nidal  Ayyad,
both 25, said that Salameh and Ayyad "unlawfully, willfully, knowingly  and
maliciously" damaged the world's second-tallest buildings "by use of an
explosive device."

The suspects face life sentences without parole if convicted.

The single-paragraph indictment shed no new light on a motive for the blast  or
possible links between the alleged bombers and Sheik Omar Abdel-Rahman, the
Muslim cleric.

Abdel-Rahman, 54, had come before U.S. Immigration Judge Daniel Meisner on  Jan.
20 for a closed hearing requested by the Immigration and Naturalization  Service
to remove the sheik from the country.

The immigration service said Abdel-Rahman did not disclose in 1991 that he  is a
polygamist and that he was convicted of falsifying a check in Egypt in  1987.
Both are grounds for exclusion from the United States.

LOAD-DATE: March 24, 1993

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                            Times Publishing Company


                              41 of 187 DOCUMENTS

                         St. Petersburg Times (Florida)

                      June 22, 1993, Tuesday, City Edition

Aliens needn't buy new cards

BYLINE: JUDY GARNATZ

SECTION: LARGO-SEMINOLE TIMES; ACTION; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 778 words



Could you get some information on immigration law?

I was told to get a new green card because mine does not have my  fingerprint on
it. Now they tell me I don't need one.

This is very confusing. Can you find out the truth?

E. F.

Response: According to news reports, the Immigration and Naturalization  Service
did issue a rule last year ordering more than a million resident  aliens holding
green cards issued before 1978 to get new ones by August 1993.

The new rule was not well publicized, however, and not all resident aliens  were
getting the word. Besides, immigration lawyers said it was an unfair and
expensive burden to put on immigrants (the cards cost $ 70).

So the immigration people canceled the rule. Now resident aliens do not  need to
get new green cards.

Check grocery receipts

for phantom charges

Please advise your readers to double-check their cash register receipts at  all
supermarkets.

I recently bought $ 125 worth of groceries at Publix in Bardmoor Village.  Later
I found two items on my receipt marked "Test Scale Item" for $ 6.45 and  $ 6.42.

The office manager gave me a refund but I never got an explanation.

At other stores I have found items added to my grocery list that I did not  buy
or items that have been mispriced. One time I bought a package of  asparagus for
$ 1.21 and noticed a similar-size package marked $ 12.25.

Ever since that television program about supermarket cash registers  printing
higher prices on items than are marked on the shelves I have been  more
watchful.

Dorothy Lindquist

Response: Jennifer Bush, Publix assistant director of public relations,  tells
us that the store manager investigated your complaint and found that  Publix has
some meat items with similar labels.

"These incorrect codes would produce the description "test scale item' on  the
receipt, but this would not affect the value of the product or the  price," Ms.
Bush said. "Although scanning these labels would not create an  overcharge, we
truly regret the confusion which was caused," she said.

She added that these codes are normally used for state inspectors during
product weight inspections.

We thought the mystery had been solved until you wrote to say that all your
purchases that day were accounted for on the sales slip and there were no  other
meat purchases made.

Of course even honest mistakes can cost us money. So thanks for the  warning.

Starkey, Ulmerton road

repairs still on schedule

Why is it taking so long to complete the repairs at Ulmerton and Starkey and
Ulmerton and Belcher roads?

The repairs have been going on for a year and there are days and days when
nobody is working on the improvements.

Jerry Wallis

Response: Pinellas County Highway Division Senior Engineer Lloyd Thomas  said
that only Starkey and Ulmerton are left to be finished. The contractor,  who has
also been working on other projects, has until Oct. 27 to complete  this job,
Thomas said.

Two-tone steel door

often leaks when it rains

About three years ago we had Sears install two steel front doors at our  house.
We paid extra to get factory-painted chocolate brown doors.

Some guy came in a truck and proceeded to tear out the old wooden doors and
install the door jamb, which was not like the model shown by the salesman. I
protested but he paid no attention.

We were left with a crummy job. When it rained we had to use towels to stop  the
leaking. The inside of the doors was never finished properly.

Several times we have tried to get in touch with the salesman but he was  never
in. And what with illnesses and visiting grandchildren, two years  passed. Then
one day when passing through a Sears store we told our story to a  nice woman in
the home repair section. She gave us an 800 number to call.

This call resulted in a contractor coming out and repainting our doors not
once, but twice. Now our doors are two shades of brown.

I can take care of the inside of the doors but someone should paint the  outside
chocolate - and this time we would like one flavor!

John Stuart

Response: Sears tells us you will get your wish along with some caulking  and
filling.

Part of the problem, we're told, is that the salesman you kept trying to  call
left the company. You have since been given a number for the Sears  warranty
office.

If you have a question for Action, or your own attempts to resolve a  consumer
complaint have failed, write: Times Action, P.O. Box 1121, St.  Petersburg, FL
33731, or call your Action number, 893-8171, to leave a  recorded request for
Action.

LOAD-DATE: June 22, 1993

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DISTRIBUTION: LARGO-SEMINOLE TIMES; NORTH PINELLAS TIMES; CLEARWATER TIMES; CITY

 TIMES; COMMUNITY TIMES

TYPE: COLUMN

                            Times Publishing Company


                              42 of 187 DOCUMENTS

                         St. Petersburg Times (Florida)

                      July 18, 1993, Sunday, City Edition

A failed immigration system

SECTION: PERSPECTIVE; EDITORIALS; Pg. 2D

LENGTH: 497 words



Attorney General Janet Reno has made a bluntly honest assessment of the
Immigration and Naturalization Service's inadequacies, and she has some
sensible ideas for improving the performance of one of the most important
agencies under her jurisdiction. To help the country cope with a growing
immigration crisis, Reno says, the INS must "upgrade its management  abilities,
restore its credibility and develop . . . as a partner in law  enforcement with
the State Department and foreign intelligence agencies."

The INS' poor management and inadequate resources were a fact of life long
before Reno arrived at the Justice Department, and they are indicative of the
relatively low priority that the federal government historically has given to
the enforcement of immigration laws. By giving the agency's work the attention
it deserves, Reno can go a long way toward reforming the system.

However, even the most efficient and well-funded INS bureaucracy would be
incapable of enforcing a hodgepodge of immigration laws and policies that are
overdue for comprehensive review.

How does the government intend to resolve the apparent double standard  that,
for example, applies one set of rules to white Cuban refugees and  another to
black Haitian refugees?

Have the broader legal distinctions between political and economic refugees
lost whatever practical meaning they once may have had?

How do we protect the country from the threat of international terrorism  while
still protecting the constitutional rights of all immigrants.

What can be done to stem the increasingly sophisticated illegal operations  that
trade in a potentially overwhelming flow of immigrants from countries  such as
China?

What kinds of international agreements would help to assure that political
refugees are dealt with in a humane and orderly way?

These kinds of questions ultimately must be addressed at the White House  and in
Congress, not at the Justice Department, although Reno and her staff  are in a
position to provide important input.

Developing fairer and more effective immigration policies that reflect  modern
realities won't be simple, but two basic principles can guide the  effort.
First, the United States, like every other government, has the right  and
obligation to secure its borders and protect the citizens within them.  Second,
our immigration laws should be consistent with the constitutional  principles
that govern the federal government's treatment of its native-born  citizens.
Among other things, that means applying immigration laws  consistently and with
due process, without regard to economic, racial or other  variables.

Once the immigration laws are made more rational, Reno, with her valuable
experience as a prosecutor in Miami, is ideally qualified to lead the
enforcement of them. She already deserves high marks for alerting the White
House, Congress and the country to the urgency of the issue.

LOAD-DATE: July 19, 1993

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: EDITORIAL

                            Times Publishing Company


                              43 of 187 DOCUMENTS

                         St. Petersburg Times (Florida)

                  September 29, 1993, Wednesday, City Edition

Hearing held for war crimes suspect

BYLINE: TIM GRANT

SECTION: CITRUS TIMES; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 564 words

DATELINE: INVERNESS



Accused Nazi war criminal Alexander Schweidler appeared Tuesday in Federal
Immigration Court in Miami to defend himself against deportation proceedings.

It was the first court appearance for the 71-year-old Inverness man since  news
of his alleged Nazi past became public two months ago.

Schweidler is accused of killing two prisoners while serving as a guard at  the
Mauthausen death camp in Austria, and of concealing his wartime record  when he
entered the United States in 1965.

Schweidler appeared Tuesday at the U.S. Federal District Courthouse with  his
wife, Ann, and his attorney, Marshall Randall of Sarasota. Neither  Schweidler
nor Randall could be reached for comment.

Schweidler was told he had 30 days to answer the charges against him in
writing, designate which country he wanted to be deported to, and to identify
all witnesses, exhibits and evidence that he will present at the deportation
hearing, according to Heather Sarni of the Office of Special Investigations.

Sarni said 30 days after Schweidler identifies his witnesses, the  government
will list the witnesses and elements of its case, and a deportation  trial date
will be set shortly thereafter.

Immigration Court management officer Mike Ringstad said if Schweidler does  not
select a country to be deported to, the U.S. government will choose a  country
for him.

No foreign officials have requested that Schweidler be extradited to their
countries to stand a war crimes trial, Ringstad said. Those requests would be
made through the State Department, he said.

Officially a citizen of Britain, Schweidler came to New York City on July  6,
1965, with an immigrant visa issued at the U.S. Consulate in Liverpool,
England.

The Department of Justice alleges that Schweidler lied about his wartime
experience with the SS when applying for his visa, and therefore entered the
country illegally.

During a March interview with attorneys from the Justice Department's  Office of
Special Investigations, investigators say Schweidler told them that  he served
as an armed guard of prisoners at the Mauthausen death camp near  Linz, Austria,
from 1942 to 1945.

More than 67,000 prisoners died at Mauthausen and its subcamps during the
Holocaust. Schweidler told investigators that his duties were to guard the
perimeter of the camp and, with the help of a dog, control the prisoners and
shoot anyone who tried to escape.

The retired computer programer and his wife moved into their three-bedroom  home
in the Inverness Highlands in 1984. He might have lived the rest of his  life
here in quiet obscurity had he not traveled to England last year.

The investigation was triggered when Schweidler tried to re-enter the  United
States and immigration authorities in Jacksonville discovered that  Schweidler's
name appeared on a list of people who should not be allowed into  the country.

The watch list is maintained by the State Department and U.S. Customs  Service.

Schweidler's name was recently added to the watch list after historians  with
the Office of Special Investigations uncovered documents naming guards at  Adolf
Hitler's concentration camps. The researchers found a report that  Schweidler
signed on April 28, 1942, in which he stated that while guarding a  construction
detail he shot and killed two prisoners who tried to escape.

LOAD-DATE: September 30, 1993

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DISTRIBUTION: CITRUS TIMES

                            Times Publishing Company


                              44 of 187 DOCUMENTS

                         St. Petersburg Times (Florida)

                     October 31, 1993, Sunday, City Edition

Name change makes new citizen's day

SOURCE: Fort Worth Star-Telegram

SECTION: NATIONAL; PEOPLE; Pg. 4A

LENGTH: 256 words

DATELINE: FORT WORTH, Texas



Bashir Zeglan left his native Libya in 1982 looking for another country. On
Thursday, he got that country and a new name: that of actor Clint Eastwood.

Zeglan officially took Eastwood's name when he was naturalized as a U.S.
citizen. At 37, he chose the moniker because Eastwood is his favorite film
star.

"I thought about Marlon Brando, Sylvester Stallone and Al Pacino, too,"  he
said. "They're intriguing names, but Clint stands out from anyone else as  an
actor. I don't think anyone is as good as him. He's my hero."

During the naturalization ceremony at the federal courthouse, a chorus of
chuckles erupted when an immigration official recited the man's new name among
the 70 or so newest U.S. citizens.

"Hi, I'm John Travolta," joked another immigrant-turned-citizen, shaking  his
hand.

A used car dealer who lives in Fort Worth, Zeglan-turned-Eastwood lists  Dirty
Harry and Unforgiven as his favorite Eastwood flicks.

Prospective citizens often choose new, more Westernized names when they are
naturalized, but it's not often that it's that of a celebrity, immigration
officials said.

After coming to this country 11 years ago on a college scholarship,  Eastwood
nee Zeglan said he picked the name of the Hollywood tough guy last  month when
applying for his citizenship.

"It was a joke," he said. "The immigration people told me that I could  pick any
name for my legal name and to pick something I liked."

So he did. And once he went ahead and did it, he said it made his day.

LOAD-DATE: November 5, 1993

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                            Times Publishing Company


                              45 of 187 DOCUMENTS

                         St. Petersburg Times (Florida)

                     November 5, 1993, Friday, City Edition

Haitians reaching U.S. via Bahamas

SOURCE: Compiled from Times Wires

SECTION: NATIONAL; THE WORLD; Pg. 14A

LENGTH: 321 words

DATELINE: MIAMI



U.S. immigration officials expect a growing migration of Haitian boat people
from the Bahamas, where 40,000 or more refugees are increasingly unwelcome.

Wednesday night, a Bahamian smuggler's boat dropped 37 men, women and  children
on an island just a few hundred yards from Miami's bright lights. All  but one
were Haitian.

"In the last three or four weeks in South Florida there have been 200 or  so
arrivals by boat from the Bahamas - that's a lot for a short period,"  George
Waldroup of the U.S. Immigration and Naturalization Service said  Thursday.

The latest refugees told investigators they had paid Bahamian boat pilots  up to
$ 3,000 each to make the three-hour run from the islands to Miami,  Waldroup
said.

They were detained Thursday at the Krome Avenue Detention Center, but at  least
some could be paroled soon, he said.

Waldroup said U.S. interdiction efforts have interrupted direct migration  by
Haitian boat people, which increased sharply after the 1991 military  overthrow
of President Jean-Bertrand Aristide.

But he said 40,000 or more illegal Haitian immigrants live in the Bahamas.  Many
have set up their own communities on isolated islands, while others have
blended into the population, taking any menial jobs available.

"It's overburdened our health services and social services," said Deputy  Prime
Minister Orville Turnquest. "It's almost to the point of breakdown."

Strike shuts capital: A strike called by opponents of President Aristide
paralyzed Haiti's capital, Port-au-Prince, on Thursday. Shops and market  stalls
closed, public transport shut down and most streets were deserted on  the first
day of a 48-hour strike called by the Front for the Advancement and  Progress of
Haiti.

Front leaders have organized a series of protests and strikes against  Aristide
in recent weeks, mobilizing hundreds of civilian gunmen linked to the  police.

LOAD-DATE: November 10, 1993

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                            Times Publishing Company


                              46 of 187 DOCUMENTS

                         St. Petersburg Times (Florida)

                    December 31, 1993, Friday, City Edition

U.S. urged to release 6 Haitians held a year

BYLINE: DAVID DAHL

SECTION: NATIONAL; WASHINGTON; Pg. 6A

LENGTH: 675 words



The Clinton administration is under pressure to release six Haitian refugees
who have languished in Louisiana jails for more than a year because they are
unable to meet the bail set by immigration officials.

  Members of the Congressional Black Caucus, Florida Sen. Bob Graham and a  host
of celebrities, including actor Danny Glover and filmmaker Jonathan  Demme, have
urged Attorney General Janet Reno and the Immigration and  Naturalization
Service to release the Haitians.

"INS' incarceration of them is an abomination and must end," 13 members  of the
Congressional Black Caucus told INS Commissioner Doris Meissner in a  Dec. 9
letter.

The six are the last of 300 Haitians who were sent to various jails in  North
Florida, Texas and Louisiana in December 1992 and January after their  arrival
in South Florida swamped the INS' Krome Detention Center in Miami.

  All the others have been released, pending their asylum hearings. They  paid
bail ranging from $ 1,000 to $ 2,500 or, in many cases, were released to  their
families without posting bail, according to Steven Forester, a lawyer  with the
Miami-based Haitian Refugee Center.

  By contrast, bail is set at $ 4,000 for one of the jailed Haitians, at  $
2,500 for three others, and at $ 1,000 for a fifth, according to Forester. A
sixth has had his bail revoked because, in despair, he told INS he would  rather
go back to Haiti and risk death than sit in jail.

  The INS prisoners must pay the amount in full, unlike jailed criminal
suspects who usually can pay a bail bondsman 10 percent of the total.

  The plight of the six Haitians highlights the contrast between the way
Haitians and Cubans are treated when they arrive in the United States. Federal
law treats Cuban immigrants as political refugees, and they are granted asylum
at once. Haitians who flee their troubled country, on the other hand, are
detained and must make the case for asylum.

  INS officials point out that the law allows the agency to detain illegal
immigrants while they wait for a hearing on their requests for asylum. The six
jailed Haitians - two women and four men - have been charged with no crime.  And
despite being taken into custody more than a year ago, the Haitians'  asylum
cases could take another year to resolve, Forester says.

  INS officials explain that the bails on the six Haitians are set because  the
immigration agency fears they may flee and avoid their hearings. The bail  was
set by the INS district director in Louisiana, John Caplinger.

  "They have no right to any bond at all," said Janice Podolny, an INS  lawyer
in Washington.

  "If their bonds are too low, they might split," she said. "Why should  they
come back?"

  Forester counters that his clients have a "superb" history of  appearing for
court dates. He says he lectures the Haitians he represents that  it is in their
best interests to follow the law and show up for court.

  Forester has been negotiating with Justice Department officials off and  on
for weeks to win the release of the remaining detainees. Two recently  posted
bail, and he had hoped the rest would be released before Christmas.

  Late this week, Forester said he offered the Justice Department $ 7,000  as
bail for five of them. Most of the money has been donated by Demme, the
filmmaker.

  In the meantime, Forester said, "morale is very low" among the six,  who are
jailed in a facility in New Orleans. He said they are shackled when  they are
moved from place to place - such as when they visited with members of  exiled
Haitian President Jean-Bertrande Aristide's cabinet earlier this year.

  "They were not treated that badly by the Haitian coup oppressors," the
Congressional Black Caucus letter said.

  "Each of the jailed Haitians has family members in South Florida," the
caucus' letter said. "Unfortunately, today they remain prisoners of a  racially
and ethnically discriminatory policy which damages our country."

LOAD-DATE: January 4, 1994

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                            Times Publishing Company


                              47 of 187 DOCUMENTS

                         St. Petersburg Times (Florida)

               January 4, 1992, Saturday, North Suncoast Edition

Cuban refugee says "freedom is marvelous'

SOURCE: Cox News Service

SECTION: NATIONAL; Pg.  3A

LENGTH: 883 words

DATELINE: MIAMI



In a daring defection planned for months, 34 refugees in a Soviet-made Cubana
Airlines helicopter took off from a tourist resort in Cuba Friday and landed 75
minutes later at a small airport southwest of Miami.

    The helicopter was used to shuttle tourists around Cuba's most popular
vacation spot, Varadero Beach. It touched down safely with the refugees about 9
a.m. at Tamiami Airport, an airfield for private planes.

    The MI-8 helicopter, built for transporting troops, had taken off from
Varadero's airport, east of Havana, at 7:45 a.m. The U.S.  Customs Service saw
the aircraft on radar about 65 miles south of Miami and sent a jet and a
helicopter as escorts.

    "We've had airplanes defect from Cuba, but this is the first helicopter and
we've never had an aircraft carrying this many refugees," said Richard Smith,
district director for the U.S.  Immigration and Naturalization Service.

    The "four or five families" on board 17 men, 8 women, 7 juveniles and 2
infants are seeking political asylum, Smith said.  They all have relatives in
South Florida, he added.

    They were taken to the immigration service's Krome Avenue Detention Center
for processing. They are expected to be released quickly under a federal law
granting special residency status to Cubans.

    "Obviously, I'm very happy," one of the refugees told reporters after
stepping off the helicopter. "Freedom is marvelous. I couldn't take it anymore
over there."

    The refugees left behind a homeland devastated by food and fuel shortages
brought on by the collapse of the Soviet Union. As the crisis deepens, so does
resentment over the privileges capitalist j j tourists enjoy at Varadero and
other resorts.

    A press official in Havana blasted the defectors.

    "They are traitors. There is no other word for it," said Carlos Trapaga of
the government's International Press Center in Havana in a telephone interview.
"They're afraid. They're thinking with their stomachs, not with their heads.

    "In difficult moments, there are always people who don't have enough courage
and valor, and they get cowardly," he said. "But don't worry, there are another
10-million Cubans, and we're staying here."

    The helicopter's pilot, 27-year-old German Pompa, a former Cuban air force
lieutenant, and his wife, Zenaida, 30, plotted the escape, U.S. officials said.
Pompa reportedly drove a bus to a remote spot in Varadero, picked up the
families and headed for the airport.

    They boarded the helicopter pretending to be tourists about to take a jaunt
around the resort, Smith said.

    "The pilot was scheduled to take a tourist group out in the morning," Smith
said. "He would normally go to a hotel to pick up his passengers, but this time
he bypassed the hotel and went to the prearranged rendezvous."

    The pilot said the flight went smoothly.

    "We had no problems because from the first moment the helicopter was full of
fuel," Pompa said.

    He said that the flight had been planned for three months and that Miami
relatives of the refugees knew of their escape plan. The pilot said they had to
abort two previous attempts, including one last week. On the third attempt
Friday, Pompa dressed his brother-in-law and another defector as pilots. The
Varadero tourist flights normally carry three-person crews.

    While in the Cuban air force, Pompa served under Maj. Orestes Lorenzo, who
defected last year after landing a Soviet MiG jet at a  Key West naval air
station.

    Cuban exile leaders said the mass defection is indicative of the island's
rapidly deteriorating economic condition. In a desperate attempt to leave the
island, a Cuban man died last week after strapping himself to a trapeze-like
swing under a U.S.-bound jet airliner. More than 2,000 refugees on small boats
or inner tube rafts were picked up by the Coast Guard in 1991.

    "We are seeing larger groups, and we are also seeing military officials who
are defecting and taking very substantial risks," said Francisco Hernandez,
president of the Cuban American National Foundation.

    By midday, Trapaga, the Cuban press official, said he had not yet heard the
news of the defection in Cuba, where many officials in the Foreign Ministry and
other entities had been given an unprecedented weeklong vacation coinciding with
the 33rd anniversary of Fidel Castro's revolution.

    Trapaga said the vacations were part of an effort to save electricity amid
the severe economic crisis caused by the collapse of Cuba's main sponsor, the
Soviet Union. Nonetheless, he said the Cuban military remained on alert against
U.S. aggression. "The army never rests," Trapaga said. "The army is prepared 24
hours a day, 365 days a year."

    Cuban officials, however, apparently were fooled by the helicopter's
defection. Pompa flew the aircraft low to evade Cuban radar.

    Ariel Ricardo, the Cuban government spokesman in Washington, said Cuba
routinely investigates such incidents and requests the return of the craft to
Cuba. A State Department official involved with the return said a Cuban
helicopter crew will arrive "sometime soon" to take the craft back.

LOAD-DATE: November 4, 1992

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: BLACK AND WHITE PHOTO, Associated Press, (2); Police guard the
Soviet-made Cuban tourism helicopter that carried 34 refugees from Havana to
Miami in a daring flight to freedom The helicopter's pilot, 27-year-old German
Pompa, center, a former Cuban air force lieutenant, is flanked by other Cuban
refugees at Tamiami Airport

                            Times Publishing Company


                              48 of 187 DOCUMENTS

                         St. Petersburg Times (Florida)

                     January 31, 1992, Friday, City Edition

Speaker calls for immigration reform

BYLINE: REENA SHAH

SECTION: TAMPA BAY AND STATE; METRO REPORT; Pg. 3B

LENGTH: 581 words



Floridians pay $ 28-million a year to educate the children of Nicaraguan
immigrants, many of whom came to this country illegally.

    California, which draws 40 percent of the nation's annual total of 1-million
immigrants, would have to build a school every day for the next five years just
to absorb the newcomers.

    The United States continues to be the world's largest magnet for immigrants,
despite mounting costs and shrinking opportunity for its own citizens, said
Daniel Stein, executive director of the Federation for American Immigration
Reform, a non-profit Washington group that favors limits on immigration. The
consequences will be dire, he told the Suncoast Tiger Bay Club on Thursday.

    "Americans are paying so little attention to (the impact of immigration)
that they're going to experience a European-type backlash and an increasing
popularity of right-wing groups," Stein warned, referring to the rise of
neo-Nazi violence in Western Europe. "We're only a few years away from where the
Europeans are."

    Immigration is a subject most Americans know little about, but it is "a
powder keg we're sitting on," he said.

    "Even the most clear-thinking intellectuals and policy makers become all
fuzzy and sentimental when they think of immigration," Stein said. "They think
of the Statue of Liberty and how their grandparents came."

    Instead, people should examine the long-range effects of immigration, he
said.

    A 1990 law increased the number of immigrants allowed to enter the country
each year from 400,000 to 700,000. About 15 percent come to Florida, making it a
favorite destination of immigrants, along with California, Texas, Illinois and
New York.

    Stein said annual immigration should be capped at about 300,000 and
preference given to scientists and professionals instead of relatives of past
immigrants.     "There's a continuing role for immigration, but the 1990s are
different from 1830," he said. "The United States is not an empty country
waiting to be settled. We don't need a lot of cheap labor. We need people who
can help us compete in an age of information and high-tech."

    Increased immigration quotas displace poor and unskilled Americans, because
unskilled or illegal immigrants compete for jobs, Stein said. Ethnic lobbies
pressure Congress to raise immigration quotas, and although the federal
government lets them in, it is the states that have to pay the costs.

    Political instability and high population growth throughout the world, even
in the former Soviet Union, have resulted in a great increase in the number of
people who want to migrate to prosperous countries such as the United States.

    Recent efforts by more than 10,000 Haitians to come to Florida are one
example of this flow, Stein said. But most have been refused entry, not because
of racial bias, as is often perceived to be the case, but because Haiti is less
important politically to the United States than Cuba is, Stein said. Cuban
refugees are generally welcomed because U.S. foreign policy is strongly
anti-Castro, he said.

    For a nation its size, Haiti has long been one of the largest sources of
legal immigrants to this country, Stein said. "If you consider there are
6-million Haitians in Haiti and another 1-million living in the United States,
that's one out of every seven Haitians that the United States has accepted."
 REENA SHAH

LOAD-DATE: November 4, 1992

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DISTRIBUTION: TAMPA BAY AND STATE

                            Times Publishing Company


                              49 of 187 DOCUMENTS

                         St. Petersburg Times (Florida)

                    February 21, 1992, Friday, City Edition

HIV-infected refugees cause dilemma

SOURCE:  Associated Press

SECTION: NATIONAL; Pg. 9A

LENGTH: 256 words

DATELINE:  WASHINGTON



The Bush administration is trying to decide what to do about at least 230
Haitian refugees who may be eligible for political asylum but who also have
tested positive for the AIDS virus, officials say.

    Immigration officials have granted the refugees preliminary asylum, meaning
they have convinced immigration authorities they may be persecuted if they are
returned to their homeland.

    Left unanswered, however, is whether the Haitians will be allowed to pursue
their asylum claims in the United States or at the U.S.  naval base in
Guantanamo, Cuba.

    State Department spokesman Margaret Tutwiler confirmed without comment
Thursday that no decision had been made on the disposition of the HIV-infected
Haitians.

    Another official said the issue has been a divisive one. "There's been a
tremendous debate," the official said.

    Normally, aliens found to be infected with the HIV virus are not allowed to
emigrate to the United States, but officials said the law permits exceptions.

    AIDS cases in Port-au-Prince have reached epidemic proportions, with
estimates that 7 percent to 8 percent of the adult population have been infected
by the AIDS virus. The disease, spread mostly by heterosexual contact, is
believed to be the major killer of adults in urban areas.

    The officials said the 230 or so HIV-positive cases were found among the
first 3,440 Haitians who were tested at Guantanamo, a rate roughly equivalent to
the incidence in Port-au-Prince.

LOAD-DATE: November 4, 1992

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                            Times Publishing Company


                              50 of 187 DOCUMENTS

                         St. Petersburg Times (Florida)

                      June 6, 1992, Saturday, City Edition

Foreign student meets with INS

BYLINE: TERESA D. BROWN

SECTION: TAMPA BAY AND STATE; Metro REPORT; Pg. 3B

LENGTH: 371 words



Immigration officials say they are looking for ways to bring a happy ending to
Paola Sequeira's unusual predicament.

    Paola, a 17-year-old refugee from Nicaragua, lost her father to an
earthquake and her brother to a plane crash. The same crash left her mother
seriously disabled.

    Despite those tragedies, Paola graduated first in her class at Brandon High
School this year and has been accepted to the University of South Florida as a
pre-medical major.

    But Paola faces deportation because her student visa expired when she
graduated Wednesday. She didn't apply for citizenship during her 10 years in the
United States because she assumed she would return to Nicaragua.

    But the earthquake, plane crash and civil war in her homeland changed her
plans.

    Friday morning, Paola and two aunts met with Immigration and Naturalization
Service officials, who could decide whether she will be here when classes begin
next fall at USF.

    "We are trying to do everything we can to assist her," said James Minton, an
INS officer. "But no decisions have been made."

    Minton declined to discuss what action will be taken next, but Paola said
she is optimistic about her situation after meeting with Minton.

    "I'm starting to see the light at the end of the tunnel," she said.

    Paola's journey began in Managua during the country's civil war in 1982.

    Her parents sent Paola and her sister, Javiera, then 7 and 5, to Tampa to
stay with their aunt and uncle, Clarence and Brunilda Bender. The parents were
worried about their daughters' safety.

    Paola's father, Roberto, died in an earthquake in Mexico three years later.
Later that year, her mother, Elda, and her 12-year-old brother were in the plane
crash.

    Now that her visa has expired, Paola's stay is legally over, because student
visas are issued to foreigners who intend to return to their native countries.

    Paola wants to stay to fulfill her dreams of becoming a doctor.

    "I have great anticipation that a solution will be found," Brunilda Bender
said. "It's not fair to Paola to keep her hanging on."
 TERESA D. BROWN

LOAD-DATE: November 3, 1992

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DISTRIBUTION: TAMPA BAY AND STATE

GRAPHIC: BLACK AND WHITE PHOTO; Paola Sequeira

                            Times Publishing Company


                              51 of 187 DOCUMENTS

                         St. Petersburg Times (Florida)

                      June 21, 1992, Sunday, City Edition

Health money "must be managed better'

BYLINE: JIM FOX

SECTION: NATIONAL; Pg. 15A

LENGTH: 744 words



Canada's health-care system is ailing and may not have long to live, some
provincial health ministers are suggesting.

    Rising medical costs threaten the system that allows all Canadian residents
no-charge health care.

    Health Minister Benoit Bouchard said the $ 60-billion (Canadian) spent
annually on medical services gives Canada the best but most expensive publicly
financed system in the world.

    The money must be managed better to control rising costs, Bouchard said
during a two-day meeting of Canada's health and  finance minister last week.

    Provincial governments have complained that health care has deteriorated
because the federal government has cut back paying its share of costs.

    "They cannot continue to prescribe to the provinces a health care system
while they are vacating the field financially," said British Columbia Finance
Minister Glen Clark.

    Restraint measures have included closing hospital beds, laying off staff,
encouraging people to use clinics and capping insurance benefits for Canadians
outside the country.

    The federal government continues to refuse proposals to institute user fees
for patients.



   Critics says proposed changes to Canada's immigration laws will treat
foreigners like "criminals."

    The legislation would tell some immigrants where they can settle in Canada,
require virtually all refugees to be fingerprinted and give others special
treatment.

    The changes are "alarmist and border on fear of foreigners," says Jane Reble
of the Mennonite Coalition for Refugee Support in Kitchener, Ontario.

    Immigration Minister Bernard Valcourt wants to give priority to @ immigrants
with immediate family members living in Canada, bona fide refugees and those
with lots of money to invest.

    To ease job shortages, the government wants to be able to assign applicants
with certain trades to parts of the country where they are  needed for about two
years.

    All refugee claimants seeking asylum in Canada would be fingerprinted
because of concerns about criminals entering the country, Valcourt said.



   The inflation rate has dropped to its lowest level in 21 years with
predictions of better economic times ahead.

    Analysts said May's 1.3-percent rate shows Bank of Canada governor John Crow
has won the battle against inflation and there should be further interest rate
cuts.

    Price wars by Ontario grocery story chains were credited with helping push
the rate down 0.2 percent.

    Government critics say the low inflation rate and a fragile economic
recovery will mean only slow improvement for the 1.5-million unemployed
Canadians.



   Facts and figures: The Bank of Canada's key interest rate dropped Thursday to
5.91 percent from 6.08 as financial institutions set their prime rate rate at 7
percent.

    The Canadian dollar was lower at 83.53 U.S. cents Friday while a U.S. dollar
was $ 1.1972 Canadian.

    Stock markets were mixed, with Toronto's composite index at 3,350 points.




   In brief: Ontario Premier Bob Rae plans a minimum corporate tax before his
New Democratic Party government's term in office expires in 1995. He said
Ontario residents, however, shouldn't expect any big tax cuts unless they're
willing to live with severe cuts in Medicare, schools and social programs.

     The union representing 1,600 strikers at the Toronto Star will let delivery
trucks leave eight times an hour instead of four. Canada's largest newspaper,
which was hit by a strike two weeks ago and continues to publish, threatens to
seek an injunction to limit picketing and sue for damages to trucks.

     Many Canadians got a head start last weekend on celebrating Canada's 125th
birthday on July 1. National Neighborhood Parties were held across Canada with
street dances and backyard barbecues even garage sales while people waved flags
and sipped lemonade.

     Canadians now have to work almost half the year to pay their taxes.

    "Tax Freedom Day" when taxpayers theoretically free themselves from
government commitments fell on June 10 nationally, says the Fraser Institute.

    It said the average Canadian family with an annual income of $ 53,535
(Canadian) will pay $ 23,537 in taxes to the three levels of government.


LOAD-DATE: November 3, 1992

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                            Times Publishing Company


                              52 of 187 DOCUMENTS

                         St. Petersburg Times (Florida)

                    September 4, 1992, Friday, City Edition

Krome inmates cast to winds

BYLINE: CAROL A. MARBIN

SECTION: TAMPA BAY AND STATE; Pg. 1B

LENGTH: 924 words

DATELINE: MIAMI



Fearing government thugs were on his trail, Ho Guo Xiang left his native  China
after the 1989 Tiananmen Square uprising.

He went on a three-year odyssey that took him to Hong Kong, Panama, Ecuador  and
Miami.

Now he is in a jail cell somewhere in North or Central Florida, with no  earthly
idea why.

After Hurricane Andrew pummelled the Krome Avenue federal detention center
south of Homestead, Ho was one of hundreds of illegal aliens evacuated in the
middle of the night to jail cells throughout the state.

"We don't know whether he's in Tampa or Lake City," said his immigration
lawyer, Bob Boyer, in Miami. "They won't tell us where he is. He's probably
freaked out of his mind. He was very confused with the whole process to begin
with."

Ho's predicament underscores the concerns of families, immigration lawyers  and
others who fear that detainees, none of whom have been charged with a  crime,
have been needlessly thrown into prison cells where they face an  uncertain
future amid murderers and other criminals.

The Immigration and Naturalization Service's Miami office always has seemed
like the Tower of Babel to those unlucky enough to get caught entering the
country without permission.

Mostly, these are the huddled masses from the poorest and most repressive
regimes in Latin America and the Caribbean. They have thrown their fate to the
winds before: aboard makeshift rafts in the Atlantic Ocean.

But when Andrew's 164-mph gusts slammed into the federal detention camp,  they
never knew what hit them.

Uncertain future

Ho, 28, does not speak English, Boyer said, and what little he knows of  Spanish
certainly does not include the word for hurricane.

"There must be a word for it in Cantonese," Boyer said. "But I'm not  sure."

About 240 immigration detainees had been housed at Krome Avenue before  Andrew
swept through south Dade, said Michael Rozos, the assistant officer in  charge
of the camp. About 200 of them were hauled off Aug. 25 to jails in  Hillsborough
County, Manatee County and Lake City.

Most of the detainees can return to Krome Avenue after electricity and  sanitary
services are repaired, Rozos said, but it may be weeks or months  before that
happens. Restoring power to the private homes nearby is a higher  priority for
the local utility, he said.

Neither Carol Chase, the INS district director in Miami, nor Wayne Joy, the
deputy district director, returned several calls from the Times on Wednesday
and Thursday.

The Haitian Refugee Center, an advocacy group for Miami's large Haitian
community, has asked the federal government to release all 200 detainees on
parole as a humanitarian gesture, said the group's general counsel, Ira
Kurzban.

INS has yet to respond, he said.

"The reality is that these people have been placed in jails, possibly  alongside
people who have committed crimes, under conditions that are  considerably worse
than they were at Krome," Kurzban said.

For Samuel Etienne, being behind bars at all is a harrowing experience.

A member of ousted President Jean Bertrand Aristide's democracy movement,
Etienne had been arrested, imprisoned and tortured in Haiti, said his lawyer,
Candace Jean.

Etienne, 36, left Haiti on July 22 aboard a commercial jetliner and  requested
asylum as soon as he landed at Miami International Airport.

"His body bore the marks of beatings," Jean said. Since arriving in  Miami, she
said, Etienne has repeatedly sought treatment for the chronic,  severe head pain
that is a legacy of his torture.

Because his sister and brother-in-law, who is a U.S. citizen, live in  Miami,
Etienne was a good candidate for release, Jean said. Now, however, he  is once
again in a jail cell, this time at the Manatee County Stockade north  of
Palmetto.

In a sense, Etienne's sister is blessed. She knows where her brother is
sleeping tonight.

"An outrage'

For many relatives of the Krome Avenue detainees, there is only confusion.

Since returning to work Thursday, immigration lawyer William Sanchez spent  most
of the day trying to track down his 15 clients who were at Krome. He got
nowhere.

"They can't even tell me where they are," Sanchez said. "I have 15  families
calling me. I wish I could at least tell them where my clients are."

Immigration officials told Jean that her client, Jeunise Marcelin, a
22-year-old former secretary for Aristide, had been taken to the Hillsborough
County Jail on Tuesday night. But when Jean tried to call Marcelin on  Thursday,
jail officials said they had never heard of her.

Marcelin, who has had headaches, hives, and a bloody nose for weeks, has
desperately called her mother and her attorney collect several times since
being removed from the detention camp, Jean said.

All her attorney knows for sure is that they don't speak Haitian Creole at  the
jail she is in.

Immigration officials have no word on seven of Jean's other clients who  were
detained at Krome, including Jean Printemps, a 34-year-old Haitian  refugee with
a wife and 2-year-old daughter in Miami.

"I can't even tell them where he is right now," Jean said. "They don't  seem to
think that's outrageously irresponsible.

"It's shocking. Even before the hurricane, many of these people would have  been
paroled," Jean said. "To keep them detained, further isolating them  from their
parents and attorneys, I think, is an outrage."

"Their families are concerned and scared about them, as are our  families," she
added.

LOAD-DATE: October 13, 1992

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DISTRIBUTION: TAMPA BAY AND STATE

                            Times Publishing Company


                              53 of 187 DOCUMENTS

                         St. Petersburg Times (Florida)

                     March 11, 1989, Saturday, City Edition

Tension mounts at INS center

SECTION: NATIONAL; NATIONAL DIGEST; Pg. 6A

LENGTH: 312 words

DATELINE: BAYVIEW, Texas; NEW YORK; NAGS HEAD, N.C.



BAYVIEW, Texas - Tensions are high at the overcrowded immigration    detention
center where Central Americans, except Nicaraguans, are being    deported under
strict new political asylum measures, officials said.

 More than 2,000 undocumented aliens were crammed into dormitories and    tents
Friday at the Immigration and Naturalization Service's    minimum-security Port
Isabel Service Processing Center.  Mark Schneider,    an immigration lawyer,
said evidence of the tension includes fistfights    and ethnic slurs among the
detainees. Former U.S. Attorney General    Edwin Meese in July 1987 issued a
directive calling for special    treatment of Nicaraguan political asylum cases,
and for INS officials    to "encourage and expedite" their applications for work

    authorization.



 40 injured in N.Y. subway crash

 NEW YORK - About 40 people were hurt when one New York subway train    plowed
into the rear of another in a Friday morning accident that    caused major
delays for thousands of rush-hour commuters. Officials    said that about 10 of
the injured complained of major back pain but    that most of the other injuries
were minor. They said the cause of the    crash at 103rd Street and Broadway was
under investigation.



 Sea continues battering Outer Banks

 NAGS HEAD, N.C. - Officials sealed off beach areas Friday as gusting    wind
and waves battered oceanfront cottages and motels, but the weather    service
predicted relief from the storm. A proclamation by Nags Head    Mayor Donald
Bryan sealing off the beach was the first of its kind in    nine years. It bars
pedestrians and traffic from the beach road in    South Nags Head, except for
property owners. It also forbids anyone to    enter damaged buildings along the
beach.



LOAD-DATE: November 9, 1992

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: DIGEST

                            Times Publishing Company


                              54 of 187 DOCUMENTS

                         St. Petersburg Times (Florida)

                     July 25, 1990, Wednesday, City Edition

U.S. limits on imports linked to wave of immigrants from poorer countries

BYLINE: REENA SHAH

SECTION: NATIONAL; Pg.  3A

LENGTH: 487 words



When America shuts its doors to clothes from Mexico, coffee from Central America
and sugar from the Caribbean, it compels these regions to pour out more of a
major illegal export: their people.

    People migrate from villages to cities and across national borders looking
for opportunities to better their lives, and the best way America can stanch the
inflow of undocumented workers is to boost the economies of its impoverished
neighbors, says a federal commission report released Tuesday in Washington.

    "The only way to bring about lasting change is through accelerated economic
development," said Diego Asencio, a former assistant secretary of state who
chaired the Commission for the Study of International Migration and Cooperative
Economic Development.  "And the only way to do that is to promote international
trade."

    Congress authorized the commission as part of the Immigration Reform and
Control Act of 1986. The commission consisting of scholars and government and
church officials was asked to study the problem of illegal migration and suggest
ways to prevent it.

    The report warns that although creating jobs in other countries could check
the flow of migrants after generations, the results could be paradoxical in the
short run. An initial boost in prosperity could "stimulate migration by raising
expectations and enhancing people's ability to migrate," the report says.

    The United States already offers some preferential trade agreements, such as
the Caribbean Basin Initiative, which gives its southern neighbors duty-free
access for manufactured goods. But economic problems in the region outweigh such
small trade incentives.

    Although nations such as Mexico and the Dominican Republic are producing
more goods for export, there are few markets for them.

    The United States, their major trade partner, has quotas on items such as
clothing that favor older trade partners like Taiwan and South Korea. It also
has quotas that restrict imported sugar from the Dominican Republic, even though
it is cheaper and subsidies to U.S. companies end up costing the American
consumer $ 3-billion a year. Because of American sugar quotas, the Dominican
Republic exports less than one-fourth the sugar it did 10 years ago.

    And without an assured market for their exports, jobs in these nations dry
up. Governments use their skimpy earnings to pay interest on their huge foreign
debt and cut spending in areas such as housing and health, forcing people to
migrate.

    But "the single most important cooperative measure the United States could
take is to correct its own fiscal deficit," the report says.  In the 1980s,
America became the largest user of the world's savings, and its massive
borrowing has made credit more expensive for poor nations.

LOAD-DATE: November 13, 1992

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                            Times Publishing Company


                              55 of 187 DOCUMENTS

                         St. Petersburg Times (Florida)

                     August 24, 1990, Friday, City Edition

92 illegal immigrants rescued

SECTION: NATIONAL; NATIONAL DIGEST; Pg. 3A

LENGTH: 361 words

DATELINE: LA PUENTE, Calif.; NEW YORK; HOUSTON; SALT LAKE CITY; WASHINGTON; DEER
PARK, Texas; TRUTH OR CONSEQUENCES, N.M.



- Deputies rescued 92 illegal immigrants from El Salvador and Mexico who  were
allegedly held captive inside a one-story house by nine smugglers  demanding
ransom, authorities said. Los Angeles County sheriff's deputies said  dozens of
people had been locked inside a 8-by-20-foot room. Others were  locked inside
three small bedrooms. Nine people were arrested and charged with  kidnapping and
extortion. Investigators believed they were so-called  "coyotes," people who
make a clandestine business out of bringing immigrants  illegally across the
border.

CBS has new president - again

NEW YORK - CBS News has named its fifth president in five years. David Burke
left the position Thursday, and Eric Ober was named as his successor. One CBS
source characterized the reason for Burke's departure as a "leadership  issue"
and not arguments over budget with the cost-cutting president of CBS  Inc.,
Laurence Tisch. Burke, 54, who was hired by CBS in 1988, strongly hinted  in a
statement that he'd been forced out. Ober is currently head of CBS'  television
stations division.

Elsewhere . . .

HOUSTON - A private airplane crashed on takeoff and burned at Houston
Intercontinental Airport on Thursday, killing three people and injuring 12
others, officials said.

SALT LAKE CITY - Gunmen shot to death two Mormon missionaries in Peru, the
church announced Thursday. They were killed Wednesday on the outskirts of
Huancayo, 120 miles east of Lima, as they were going to the home of church
members for lunch, according to a statement from the church's world
headquarters.

WASHINGTON - Tests show that airlines could save hundreds of millions of
dollars in fuel costs with a new wing design that reduces drag from air  flowing
over a jetliner's wings, NASA said.

DEER PARK, Texas - Spilled solvent burst into flame at a Shell Oil Co.
petrochemical complex Thursday, causing a fire that injured two workers and
damaged a crude oil refining unit.

TRUTH OR CONSEQUENCES, N.M. - An Air Force F-111D fighter crashed in the  desert
Thursday but both crew members were rescued.

LOAD-DATE: December 10, 1992

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: DIGEST

                            Times Publishing Company


                              56 of 187 DOCUMENTS

                         St. Petersburg Times (Florida)

                    February 11, 1996, Sunday, City Edition

Immigration debate lacks facts

BYLINE: DAVID ADAMS

SECTION: NATIONAL; Pg. 8A

LENGTH: 663 words



How many immigrants are there? How much do they cost? Does anyone actually
know?

As the immigration debate heats up, there's one crucial element lacking:  facts.

Part of the reason for the confusion is that despite a number of studies,  no
one has been able to prove whether immigration is good or bad. The  statistics
just are not there.

Immigration experts say there is much confusion about which benefits  immigrants
are allowed to claim. It's not as easy to milk the system as some  fear.

Illegal immigrants are eligible only for emergency medical treatment under
Medicaid and limited food benefits. Most don't apply for these because they
fear detection by the Immigration and Naturalization Service. Many go without
preventive care because they cannot afford it.

According to the Urban Institute, a nonpartisan research organization, most
immigrants - more than 85 percent - come to this country legally. Legal and
illegal immigrants more than pay their way, contributing about $ 70.3-billion a

 year in taxes, while receiving about $ 42.9-billion in local, state and
government services. About $ 11.8-billion a year is spent educating their
immigrant children. Illegal immigrants pay $ 7-billion in taxes, chiefly
through the consumer sales tax.

Groups favoring tighter immigration restrictions say these figures do not  take
into account the added burden immigrants place on broader services such  as
police and sanitation. It is also impossible to calculate the cost of
corruption involving false immigration documents and fraudulent benefit  claims.

A 1993 study by Don Huddle of Rice University estimates that undocumented
immigrants cost American taxpayers $ 7.7-billion a year in public assistance.
Other research shows that immigrants crowd schools and hospitals and lead to
higher crime rates. Most new immigrants have less money and fewer skills than
immigrants in the '70s.

Studies often depend on the specific target of research. Dade County, for
example, is home to half of Florida's foreign-born residents. Consequently,
studies in the Miami area show greater costs to local authorities.

Demographics for the rest of Florida show most of the state looks a lot  like
the rest of the United States.

Estimates show that of Florida's 14-million residents, barely 13 percent  (about
2-million) are foreign-born.

New to Florida

There were 1.8-million foreign-born Florida residents included in the 1990
Census. Here are the top 10 countries of origin of the foreign-born residents
in the state:

                                          % of all

       Country           Number of    foreign-born

Rank     of origin          residents      residents

1.       CUBA               502,590          28.2%

2.       CANADA              85,902           4.8%

3.       HAITI               84,163           4.7%

4.       GERMANY             79,605           4.5%

5.       JAMAICA             76,495           4.3%

6.       NICARAGUA           73,074           4.1%

7.       UNITED KINGDOM      70,391           3.9%

8.       COLOMBIA            68,809           3.8%

9.       MEXICO              58,238           3.3%

10.      ITALY               32,520           1.8%

      Region

1.       CARIBBEAN          733,329          41.1%

2.       EUROPE             333,795          18.7%

3.       CENTRAL AMERICA    201,433          11.3%

4.       SOUTH AMERICA      169,950           9.5%

Source: U.S. Department of Commerce, Bureau of Census. Ethnic and Hispanic
branch, 1990 Census special tabulations

LOAD-DATE: February 13, 1996

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: COLOR CHART; the top 10 countries of origin of the foreign-born
residents in the state of Florida, icludes a map locating these countries and
Florida

                    Copyright 1996 Times Publishing Company


                              57 of 187 DOCUMENTS

                         St. Petersburg Times (Florida)

                    February 12, 1996, Monday, City Edition

Immigration hot topic for voters, not candidates

SOURCE: Miami Herald

BYLINE: ANDRES VIGLUCCI

SECTION: NATIONAL; VOICES OF FLORIDA; Pg. 1A

LENGTH: 1135 words



Survey after survey plainly shows it: American voters are preoccupied with
immigration, sometimes intensely so.

But in a presidential campaign in which partisan lines have been sharply  drawn
over welfare and the budget, the subject of immigration has yet to  provoke
muchof a stir. With the notable exception of Pat Buchanan, for  instance, the
major Republican challengers have been content to voice  approving soundbites
about legal immigration, while uniformly condemning  illegal entry.

A year after inspiring the Proposition 187 movement in California to deny
public services to undocumented aliens, though, illegal immigration is less  and
less the issue, at least in presidential politics. Everyone is against it,  even
many of the most ardent defenders of immigration, leaving little room for
argument.

It may simply be too early. The campaign, after all, has yet to move full  force
into the states where immigration really matters, like California and  Florida.

There may be a deeper reason, though: When it comes to immigration, there  is no
simple liberal-conservative divide. It's a Democratic president, Bill  Clinton,
who can lay claim to actually cracking down on illegals, and who has  endorsed a
proposal to reduce the levels of legal immigration by as much as a  third.

Only Buchanan has gone further. He calls for a five-year moratorium on most
legal immigration, while other Republican candidates, including Sens. Bob Dole
and Phil Gramm, have pointedly refused to follow his lead. To a man, they
defend legal immigrants as an asset, a wellspring of economic vigor for the
country.

Meanwhile, it is publishing heir Steve Forbes who has directly attacked the
Clinton-backed proposal to scale back legal immigration as "misguided."

With pro- and anti-immigration sentiment crossing party lines, some  political
observers say, there is little partisan advantage in attacking legal  newcomers
for Republican candidates - and potentially much to lose.

"This issue is not really a winner for most Republicans," said Frank  Sharry,
executive director of the National Immigration Forum, a  pro-immigration
lobbying group. "You have many traditional conservatives who  are very
pro-immigration. If you're a candidate who wants to win the  Republican
nomination, you have to be very careful. You could lose Cubans in  Miami, Asians
in California, 20 different ethnic groups in New York, and some  very
conservative Mexican-Americans in Texas."

A Voices of Florida poll last fall found that an overwhelming majority of
registered Florida voters, even Hispanic and foreign-born residents, consider
immigration to be a problem. The poll revealed that a majority of voters favor
tough measures to crack down on illegal immigration by denying access to  public
services such as health care and education.

Voices of Florida is a coalition of six newspapers, 11 television stations  and
public radio - including the Times, the Miami Herald, WTSP-Ch. 10 and  WUSF-FM
89.7. The news organizations joined forces to explore which issues are  most
important to voters in Florida.

In South Florida, where Cuban-Americans remain pivotal to the GOP, Dole,  Gramm
and Lamar Alexander have found themselves treading very cautiously  around the
immigration issue, avoiding talk about making English the nation's  official
language, sealing the borders and declaring the "American culture"  superior to
all others.

The gap between Buchanan and the others reflects deep divisions over
immigration in the Republican Party. Like Dole, Gramm, Forbes and Alexander,
the party's traditional pro-business and libertarian wings see the growth that
immigration produces as good for the economy.

They also regard some proposals to control immigration - including national  ID
cards and a tax on businesses that import workers - as intrusive big
government.

Gramm and Dole have taken firm stands on one issue: They have backed bills  that
would end or restrict immigrants' use of certain government benefits,  including
welfare and Social Security.

But their other forays into immigration-related issues have been careful,  even
tentative. In a highly publicized speech to the American Legion last  year, Dole
called for English to be made the country's official language and  blasted
bilingual education - then seemed to quickly abandon that course.

Alexander's main proposal has been to strip control of the country's  borders
from the Immigration and Naturalization Service and turn it over to  the
military or a private contractor. The former Tennessee governor said the  agency
is incapable of controlling illegal border crossings at the same time  that it
oversees legal immigration.

Those moderate stands could clash with the hard-line position of many in the
Republican rank-and-file.

In both houses of Congress, Republicans have introduced bills that would  scale
back legal immigration from the present level of about 900,000 a year,  some
drastically.

They would do so by varying methods. Most legal immigrants are relatives of
naturalized citizens or permanent U.S. residents. Some proposals would bar
parents, siblings and adult children of immigrants from joining them, or place
a strict cap on their numbers, for instance.

Buchanan has backed a bill that would freeze all immigration for five  years,
with the exception of spouses and minor children of U.S. citizens.

The idea, he says, is to keep the millions of recent arrivals from  overwhelming
the country culturally and economically, giving them time to  learn English, get
on their feet economically and join the American  mainstream. "We've got to
become one country again," Buchanan has said.

At least two bills are expected to make it out of committee this spring. As
they come up for debate, and as the presidential campaigns move into Florida,
California and Texas, immigration could again catch fire, and the candidates
could be forced to show their hands.

Alexander, Forbes and Gramm have criticized the bills, directly or  indirectly,
but none has given specifics about how he would deal with legal  immigration. In
columns in his business magazine, Forbes has suggested that  present levels suit
him fine.

Gramm has left the door open to some restrictions.

"We are here setting up arbitrary limits that prevent people who came here
legally, who have been successful, who have achieved the American dream, from
bringing their kinfolk to America," he said recently. "I do not think that  is
right. I do not think it makes any sense."

Yet, he added on another occasion, "I think we ought to put a premium on  people
who can bring new skills, new energy. But I'm not ready to tear down  the Statue
of Liberty."

LOAD-DATE: February 13, 1996

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: SERIES

                    Copyright 1996 Times Publishing Company


                              58 of 187 DOCUMENTS

                         St. Petersburg Times (Florida)

                March 15, 1996, Friday, 0 South Pinellas Edition

Hundreds of illegals die crossing into U.S.

SOURCE: Compiled from Times Wires

SECTION: NATIONAL; IN BRIEF; Pg. 10A

LENGTH: 400 words

DATELINE: HOUSTON; TOKYO



More than 300 illegal immigrants drown each year trying to cross the Rio  Grande
into Texas, and many wind up buried in unmarked graves with their  families left
wondering about their fate, researchers said Thursday.

"It's become a tragedy for families of those who disappeared," said  Nestor
Rodriguez, one of the directors of the study of 10 years of migrant  deaths
along the 1,000-mile Texas-Mexico border. "Families are working  against
terrible or impossible odds. If there's no documentation, families  won't find
their loved ones."

Because the victims usually strip to swim across the river, many of the  nude,
decomposing bodies are never identified.

The muddy Rio Grande is a mix of shallow, calm water and deep, swift  currents
racing between sheer cliffs. Migrants frequently make the crossing at  night in
the more dangerous, remote sections that are not so heavily guarded.

Japan drug firms

to pay AIDS victims

   TOKYO - Of Japan's 4,500 hemophiliacs, almost half contracted the AIDS  virus
from tainted blood products, a tragedy that victims say was caused by
bureaucratic negligence and corporate greed.

In a stunning and rare apology, the government and major drug producers  agreed
Thursday to pay lifetime support for those AIDS patients, who are now  dying at
a rate of one every three days.

"We extend and pledge our heartfelt apologies to those people and their
families who were the innocent victims of this insidious disease," said Bob
Hurley, president of the Japanese subsidiary of Baxter International, the big
health products company based near Chicago.

Takehiko Kawano, president of the Japanese drug company Green Cross, added  his
contrition.

The settlement includes a one-time payment of about 45-million yen, or  $
429,000, to each claimant, plus monthly payments of $ 1,428 for life to those
with full-blown AIDS. The government is to bear 44 percent of the cost, and
five companies will split the rest.

The agreement to compensate the victims was made in response to a lawsuit  filed
in 1989 by about 400 infected hemophiliacs.

The suit alleged that five companies, with the backing of the Japanese
government, aggressively marketed untreated blood products in Japan for two
years after 1983, when it became known that HIV, the virus that causes AIDS,
could be transmitted through blood.

LOAD-DATE: March 15, 1996

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: DIGEST

                    Copyright 1996 Times Publishing Company


                              59 of 187 DOCUMENTS

                         St. Petersburg Times (Florida)

                             April 14, 1996, Sunday

A self-defeating immigrant policy

SECTION: PERSPECTIVE; EDITORIALS; Pg. 2D

LENGTH: 385 words



The nation's increasing contempt for illegal immigrants was reflected a few
days ago in the House of Representatives' vote, 257 to 163, to deny public
education to the children of these immigrants. Senate Majority Leader Bob  Dole,
the presumed Republican presidential candidate, backs the proposed  legislation.

President Clinton opposes it. Fortunately, he is not alone. The nation's  major
police organizations, along with the Chicago Police Department, have  written to
Dole urging him to reverse his stand. Officials and beat officers  agree that
the government should do more to curb illegal immigration, but they  argue that
kicking kids out of school is not the answer. "One of our biggest  problems is
to develop a positive alternative to gangs and drugs for our  youngest children
with free time after school," Los Angeles County Sheriff  Sherman Block told the
New York Times. "To literally have them loose on the  street . . . I don't see
how that would be positive."

Block may be exaggerating the seriousness of the situation, but hardly  anyone
is overstating the cost to educate undocumented youngsters. California
lawmakers claim, for example, that the state instructs 355,000 immigrant  pupils
at a cost of $ 1.8-billion annually. Other states with high immigrant
populations, such as Florida, Texas and Arizona, also pay disproportionate  sums
to teach immigrant children. Clearly, this obligation represents the  worst kind
of unfunded mandate.

Few people expect the provision to get past the Supreme Court, which  already
has ruled that such a restriction is unconstitutional. Still,  something must be
done to give affected states adequate economic relief. The  omnibus immigration
measure contains several provisions that offer some hope.  Clinton, however,
promises to veto the entire bill if the school section  remains.

The president and the police are right. Kicking children out of school is  wrong
and self-defeating. Gov. Lawton Chiles has a better idea: The feds  should
tighten the borders, give immigration officials more authority and more  tools
with which to perform their job and automatically compensate school  districts
for the money spend on immigrant children. Shutting the schoolhouse  door is
unrealistic and wrong.

LOAD-DATE: April 15, 1996

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: EDITORIAL

                    Copyright 1996 Times Publishing Company


                              60 of 187 DOCUMENTS

                         St. Petersburg Times (Florida)

                May 14, 1996, Tuesday, 0 South Pinellas Edition

Florida's illegal alien suit dealt final blow

BYLINE: ELLEN DEBENPORT

SECTION: CITY & STATE; Pg. 1B

LENGTH: 432 words

DATELINE: WASHINGTON



For the third and final time, Florida was told Monday that it will have to  keep
paying the costs of illegal immigration unless Congress can be persuaded  to
fork over the money instead.

Illegal immigration costs Florida taxpayers about $ 1-billion a year, and  Gov.
Lawton Chiles filed a lawsuit in 1994 to try to force the federal  government to
pay.

The U.S. Supreme Court on Monday refused to hear the case, and two lower  courts
already have ruled against Florida. The lower courts said immigration  may be a
burden to the states, but Congress, not the courts, must decide who  pays.

Chiles issued a statement saying he was disappointed.

But he said, "Our lawsuit was successful in that it raised awareness of  the
extraordinary impact of illegal immigration on border states like  Florida."

Florida's appeal was supported by California, Arizona, New Jersey, Texas  and
Colorado, where taxpayers are complaining about the costs of schooling and
emergency medical care for illegal immigrants.

States also have to pay jail costs when illegal immigrants are arrested,  but
the U.S. Justice Department has begun to help cover that. Chiles credited  the
Clinton administration with trying to control illegal immigration and  funneling
more money to the states.

An estimated 4-million illegal immigrants are living in the United States,
about 345,000 in Florida.

In the lawsuit, Chiles likened illegal immigration to an "invasion" and
demanded that Congress control borders or pay the costs. He filed the lawsuit
while he was running for a second term and made immigration a campaign issue.
The lawsuit was thrown out a month after Chiles was re-elected, but the  appeals
have just now ended.

In the meantime, immigration has become a big issue in Congress. The House  and
Senate bills passed this spring do not include reimbursement to the  states,
however.

In fact, Sen. Bob Graham, D-Fla., has argued the bills would make matters
worse. The Senate bill would cut off nearly all benefits to legal immigrants,
which means they, too, would lean on the state for help.

Graham was one of just three senators to vote against the Senate bill.

The House bill would give states the option of refusing to educate children  who
are in the country illegally, but Chiles has already said he wouldn't keep  them
out of school, despite the $ 400-million yearly cost.

The House and Senate versions still must be reconciled by a committee and  voted
on a second time before an immigration reform bill is sent to President  Clinton
to be signed.

LOAD-DATE: May 28, 1996

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DISTRIBUTION: CITY & STATE; METRO & STATE; TAMPA & STATE

                    Copyright 1996 Times Publishing Company


                              61 of 187 DOCUMENTS

                         St. Petersburg Times (Florida)

                May 16, 1996, Thursday, 0 South Pinellas Edition

Stuck with the bill

SECTION: EDITORIAL; EDITORIALS; Pg. 14A

LENGTH: 493 words



Florida Gov. Lawton Chiles compares illegal immigration to an "invasion."  He is
so concerned with the high number of illegals crossing the state's  borders each
year that he filed a lawsuit two years ago in an attempt to force  the federal
government to reimburse Florida taxpayers for the approximately  $ 1-billion
they spend each year on immigrant-related education, medical care  and law
enforcement.

Much of the cost is residual, stemming from the 1980 Mariel boat lift that
brought 125,000 Cubans to Florida and the migration of 1994 that brought  37,000
Cubans. When expenses related to the tens of thousands of illegal  agricultural
workers who come to the state each year are added to those of the  Cuban influx,
officials are left with economic and social disasters waiting to  happen.

For the third time, though, the courts - this time the U.S. Supreme Court -
have rejected Chiles' suit. The courts have ruled that, despite Florida's
economic burden of caring for more than 345,000 illegal immigrants, Congress,
not the courts, establishes immigration policy and will determine who picks up
the tab.

Fine legalisms notwithstanding, Florida taxpayers are being soaked. And
something viable must be done.

After the Supreme Court refused to hear his appeal, Chiles made the best of  a
rotten situation, saying: "Our lawsuit was successful in that it raised
awareness of the extraordinary impact of illegal immigration on border states
like Florida." Chiles' conciliatory words may have been triggered by the
Clinton administration's promise to increase funding and other aid to Florida
and the other agricultural states that have high numbers of illegal  immigrants.

Perhaps Chiles could be more successful if Florida's congressional  delegation,
led by Sens. Bob Graham and Connie Mack, shared his concern.  Instead, our
representatives in Washington generally have failed to do enough  to help the
governor make the case for Florida taxpayers. At least Graham was  one of the
few Washington voices opposing new immigration legislation on the  grounds that
it does not adequately compensate states such as Florida for the  burdens of
illegal immigration.

With the courts now out of the picture, it is up to our congressional
delegation to make Florida's case. They should be with Chiles as he tries to
persuade Congress to carry out its duty of protecting the nation's borders. As
matters currently stand, Florida is the victim of an unfunded federal mandate.

As an advocate for children, the governor should be commended for rejecting  the
effort to deny education to the children of illegal immigrants, even  though the
bill comes to $ 400-million a year. Shutting the schoolhouse door is
counterproductive. The element of humanity must remain in the debate, for the
fight must be against bad immigration policy - not against people, especially
against innocent children.

LOAD-DATE: May 16, 1996

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: EDITORIAL

                    Copyright 1996 Times Publishing Company


                              62 of 187 DOCUMENTS

                         St. Petersburg Times (Florida)

               June 15, 1996, Saturday, 0 South Pinellas Edition

Chiles to meet in Haiti on immigration

BYLINE: PETER WALLSTEN

SECTION: CITY & STATE; Pg. 8B

LENGTH: 338 words

DATELINE: TALLAHASSEE



Three weeks after announcing new plans to curb illegal immigration, Gov.  Lawton
Chiles will travel to Haiti to discuss the issue with that country's  new
president.

Chiles will meet with President Rene Preval Monday in Port-au-Prince, where  the
two also are to discuss security in the unstable nation and stronger  economic
ties between Florida and Haiti.

"This is consistent with Gov. Chiles' approach to pursue every conceivable
option to prevent a mass migration crisis, and to reduce the burden on Florida
taxpayers," said Mark Schlakman, the governor's special counsel who  specializes
in Haiti issues.

The visit comes in the wake of the governor's announcement last month with  U.S.
Attorney General Janet Reno that they would strengthen efforts to protect
Florida's borders from illegal immigrants, including Haitians fleeing  political
unrest and poverty.

Chiles will travel with Gen. John Sheehan, chief of the U.S. Atlantic  Command,
and will be the guest of U.S. Ambassador William Lacy Swing.

The two-day visit is his first since May 1995, and the first since Preval
assumed the presidency in February. Preval, a former bakery owner, took over
from Jean-Bertrand Aristide.

Chiles also is to meet parliamentary leaders and business people, and tour  a
Port-au-Prince orphanage.

Haiti officials welcomed Chiles' efforts.

"If we have democracy where people can work and live without fear of  terror,
then there will not be refugees," said Michelle Karshan, Preval's  foreign press
liaison. "And that's the No. 1 issue for Florida."

But one advocate for refugees feared Chiles' immigration efforts were
misguided.

"I'm sure they're going to try an ensure that Haitians don't get to our  shores
regardless of whether or not they're fleeing political persecution,"  said
Cheryl Little, executive director of the Florida Immigrant Advocacy  Center,
"and that even those trying to come here legally by applying for  visas are
going to be discouraged from doing so."

LOAD-DATE: June 17, 1996

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DISTRIBUTION: CITY & STATE; METRO & STATE; TAMPA & STATE

                    Copyright 1996 Times Publishing Company


                              63 of 187 DOCUMENTS

                         St. Petersburg Times (Florida)

                     March 2, 1989, Thursday, State Edition

27 more suspected illegal aliens are caught at airport

SECTION: NATIONAL; NATIONAL DIGEST; Pg. 5A

LENGTH: 857 words

DATELINE: CHARLOTTE, N.C.; SONORA, Ky.; ST. PAUL, Minn.; NEW YORK; CAPE
CANAVERAL; LOS ANGELES



CHARLOTTE, N.C. - U.S. immigration agents apprehended 27 more suspected
illegal aliens Wednesday on a flight bound for New York City, bringing    to 175
the number detained in a government crackdown. Immigration and    Naturalization
Service (INS) agents, acting on a tip from a regular    commuter on the Piedmont
Airlines flight, were waiting for the 25 males    and two females shortly before
7 a.m. during a stopover at    Charlotte-Douglas International Airport. The
group on the flight, which    originated in Phoenix, Ariz., included two
Mexicans, eight Brazilians,    14 Salvadorans and three Ecuadorans, said Tom
Thomas, an INS spokesman.

 By 4 p.m., the detainees taken off the jetliner had been interviewed,
fingerprinted, photographed and put on a bus for an INS processing    center
near Brownsville, Texas. The bust was part of a three-day    crackdown in
Charlotte, Atlanta and Los Angeles, authorities said.



 Boy dies after treatment dispute

 SONORA, Ky. - A 6-year-old Amish boy, whose father was jailed for
terminating the child's chemotherapy treatments, died Tuesday at his    parents'
home, apparently of complications from brain cancer. Amos    Mast's father,
Danny Mast, had discontinued the boy's chemotherapy    treatment in November
after a dispute with doctors and was jailed three    days in January for
contempt of court. The father later agreed to    continue approved medical
threatment for Amos, and he was taken to a    medical center in Nashville, Tenn.
Doctors there sent him home Feb. 16    after determining the cancer had
progressed too far to respond to    treatments.



 Jury of moms dismays suspect

 ST. PAUL, Minn. - A man charged with trying to sell cocaine changed    his plea
to guilty after seeing a jury of "14 mothers with kids," his    lawyer said.
Kevin Allen Walker, 27, pleaded guilty Tuesday after an    all-woman jury had
been selected for his trial. "We picked a jury and    saw 14 mothers with kids,
and saw they were against drugs," lawyer    Earl Gray said. Police said they
found two pounds of cocaine, three    guns and $ 57,800 when they searched a car
Walker was using.



 Sentence light despite threats

 NEW YORK - A judge, refusing to bow to demands by angry demonstrators,    gave
a light sentence Wednesday to a teen who burned down a synagogue    and
destroyed six sacred Torah scrolls in September. New York State    Justice
Thaddeus Owens had to assure a packed Brooklyn courtroom that    he was not
anti-Semitic because he was sentencing Louis Franceschi to    16 weekends in
jail and five years on probation. The judge said that    since revealing his
intentions not to severely punish the 16-year-old    Franceschi, his estranged
wife's home has been pelted with rocks and    hundreds of people have sent him
hate letters. Twenty-four hours after    the September fire, more than 6,000
Orthodox Jews held a funeral    procession for the destroyed Torahs.



 Crushed part delaying shuttle

 CAPE CANAVERAL - The launch of the space shuttle Discovery will be    delayed
at least two days until March 11 because of a crushed    electrical part on a
main engine, NASA officials said Wednesday. The    delay apparently will resolve
a conflict brewing when a classified    military launching threatened to bump
the shuttle from its March 9    target date. NASA said that during a test of
Discovery's three main    engines, a controller on engine No. 1 shut down
prematurely. The    problem was traced to a crushed coil of wire on a valve.



 Bonfire of records planned

 LOS ANGELES - A talk-show host plans a bonfire of Cat Stevens' records    to
protest Stevens' support for a death sentence on Salman Rushdie, but
anti-pollution laws could douse the flames. Tom Leykis of the Los    Angeles
radio station KFI-AM announced on his show Wednesday that the    burning would
take place March 8. Stevens, a Moslem convert, has been    quoted as endorsing
Ayatollah Ruhollah Khomeini's order to kill the    author of The Satanic Verses.

 A spokesman for the South Coast Air    Quality Management District said "this
type of open burning would be a    violation of our regulations." He said the
station would have to apply    for an exemption.



 Pioneering satellites face demise

 Running out of money for the program, the U.S. government on Wednesday
ordered the shutdown of the last two American satellites in a series    that
pioneered the photography of Earth from space and offered a    valuable tool for
crop forecasting, mineral exploration and forest    management. The process of
notifying customers and turning off the    Landsat satellites will take a month,
giving backers of the spacecraft    time to try to save them. The satellites,
Landsat 4 and Landsat 5, were    launched in 1982 and '84 and have long outlived
their expected    lifetimes of three years.



LOAD-DATE: November 9, 1992

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: BLACK AND WHITE PHOTO, Associated Press; illegal aliens board
Texas-bound bus in Charlotte, N.C., after being captured at an airport

TYPE: DIGEST

                            Times Publishing Company


                              64 of 187 DOCUMENTS

                         St. Petersburg Times (Florida)

                     August 5, 1989, Saturday, City Edition

Stowaways 'without a country' held on Lykes ship at Texas port

SOURCE: Compiled from Staff and Wire Reports

BYLINE: STEPHEN KOFF

SECTION: NATIONAL; Pg. 3A

LENGTH: 870 words

DATELINE: ORANGE, Texas



ORANGE, Texas - A ship owned by the Tampa-based Lykes conglomerate    is the
setting for a frustrating, slow drama in which two African    stowaways are
being held until officials can learn where they are from.

 Some authorities fear the answer may never come.

     Texas State Rep. Al Price said he has exhausted all possible    efforts to
get the men, ages 19 and 17, freed for humanitarian purposes    and flown back
to their homes.

     "Our immigration laws, for all practical purposes, forbid any    person to
enter the country without the proper papers, even to have    them incarcerated
by the immigration service until they can obtain the    documents," Price said.


     The two are being held aboard the Gennevive Lykes, owned by Lykes
Brothers Steamship Co. The shipping company, based in New Orleans, is    part of
the Tampa-based Lykes Brothers holdings. Members of the    prominent Lykes
family are involved in a number of Tampa Bay    businesses.

     Officials of the company declined to discuss the ship. "We're    receiving
the utmost cooperation from them," said Royce McGill, a    supervisor with the
Immigration and Naturalization Service (INS).    "Right now (the company's)
hands are tied" because the stowaways must    be positively identified and
documented before they can be released      from the ship, McGill said.

     INS officials in Houston said undocumented aliens aboard    international
seaships must be restrained while in port. If they enter    the United States
illegally, the ship's owner faces strict fines.

     The stowaways have told conflicting stories about their homeland.

 At first, they said they were from Tanzania, the East African country    where
the two are believed to have stowed away on the Gennevive Lykes    while it was
docked in Dar-es-Salaam, the Tanzanian capital.

     But they may instead be from Uganda, an inland country north of
Tanzania, Price said. "While I was talking with them, one indicated he    was
from Kampala (the capital of Uganda). He talked about the civil war    that's
going on there and said his parents had been killed by soldiers    before they
left."

     Rumors about two men, who were reported to have been held    handcuffed and
chained in a 6-by-12-foot restroom aboard the Gennevive    Lykes at the
Bethlehem Steel dry dock in Port Arthur, prompted city    health officials to
investigate. Port Arthur Health Inspector Ed    Jefferson, who, along with
nurses, boarded the Gennevive Lykes Monday,    said after the visit that the
room the stowaways occupied was similar    to a small police holding cell.
Jefferson added that he found no    evidence of malnutrition, which must be
present for the city to    exercise jurisdictional actions.

     Subsequently, the Port Arthur chapter of the NAACP voiced    opposition to
the methods the ship's crew has taken to keep the men    from entering the
United States illegally.

     "Those are inhumane conditions that amount to torture," said the    Rev.
Raymond Scott, chairman of the legal redress committee of the    NAACP Port
Arthur chapter.

     McGill of INS said that conditions have improved. The stowaways are    now
in larger quarters with sleeping accommodations, he said.

     Velma Jeter, president of the local NAACP, said she wanted to thank
Martin Larius, the ship's captain, for moving the stowaways to better
conditions.

     Larius told Jeter that the stowaways were never at any time treated
inhumanely. The men are not handcuffed, he told Jeter. Both men are    being
held in the best conditions possible, Larius said.

     "As long as they don't try to damage their cabin or any part of    the
vessel, they won't be handcuffed," McGill said. There is a guard    outside the
cabin door to ensure the men do not try to escape, he said.

     McGill said a member of his staff will make daily visits to the    ship to
see that the men are being well cared for.

     P. Rwitunga, a minister of the Tanzanian Embassy in Washington,    D.C.,
has interviewed the stowaways but could not positively establish    that the two
were Tanzanian nationals.

     Rwitunga returned to Washington with photos and other information    that
he intends to distribute in Tanzania in hopes family members can    identify
them.

     "The embassy can only get them travel documents if they are    citizens. We
are trying to determine if they are Tanzanians. I am    unable to establish
their citizenship," said Rwitunga.

     But Price said the chances of getting positive identifications of    the
two are slim, at best.

     "You've heard of the short story The Man without a Country? Well,    these
two are the closest to being men without a country that I've ever    heard of.
Without papers, it may be difficult for them to ever enter a    country
legally," Price said.

 - Information from staff writer Stephen Koff and Cox News Service was    used
in this report.



LOAD-DATE: November 9, 1992

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                            Times Publishing Company


                              65 of 187 DOCUMENTS

                         St. Petersburg Times (Florida)

                   February 3, 1993, Wednesday, City Edition

Thousands illegally immigrate to U.S. by plane, study says

SOURCE: San Francisco Chronicle

SECTION: NATIONAL; Pg. 10A

LENGTH: 526 words

DATELINE: SAN FRANCISCO



The 25 Poles who flew into San Francisco International Airport last week with
forged Swedish passports may have been part of an uncoordinated but massive
airlift from all parts of the world, according to a new study.

Federal records of passengers flying into and out of the United States show  a
huge and unexplained gap of 2-million more arrivals than departures each  year,
says Lindsey Grant, who was deputy assistant secretary of state for  environment
and population during the Carter administration. His analysis was  published by
Negative Population Growth, a New Jersey-based organization  advocating
population controls.

The surplus of people flying into the United States each year hovered near
1-million in the late 1970s but more than doubled to 2.4-million by 1990,  Grant
reported.

These numbers "provide disturbing indications that immigration may be  running
at a substantially higher level than is generally supposed," Grant  noted. "If
it is, the present estimate of U.S. population and the Census  projections for
the future are all brought into question . . . (and) the  discrepancy may point
to an unrecognized source of problems like urban unrest  and falling wages."

The stereotype of illegal immigrants slipping across the Mexican border or
hiding in freighters from Asia ignores the large number of people who fly into
the United States and then do not leave, Grant said.

For instance, the Poles had flown in from Paris on Air France after paying  up
to $ 3,000 each to smugglers, who provided them with forged papers. Nine of  the
Poles managed to flee the airport without being captured.

Some government experts, however, think that data collection problems  rather
than illegal immigration explain most of the apparent gap between  arrivals and
departures.

"We don't think (2-million) can be right," said David Ward, a demographer  with
the Census Bureau.

Based on Census counts of the total population every decade, and taking  into
account the number of births, death, legal immigrants and probable  emigrants,
the total number staying on in the United States each year is  probably no more
than 200,000, Ward said.

But Grant thinks the Census grossly undercounts not only poor and minority
residents who distrust the government but also illegal immigrants who fear
being deported. The assumption that people are willing to be counted is wrong,
he said.

"In 1990, one-fourth of those people in identified housing units didn't  send in
their forms," Grant said.

The immigration service keeps its own tabs on airline arrivals and  departures
with a form required of every foreign tourist, business person,  student or
exchange visitor. But forms are not always picked up when  foreigners leave the
country, said Robert Warren, director of statistics for  the INS.

His highest estimate of people who arrive by plane and overstay their visas  is
250,000 a year. Some of them eventually return home, marry or otherwise  gain
legal status, or die.

"You can't make a strong case that the number (of illegal immigrants) is  very
far from 200,000," Warren said.

LOAD-DATE: February 9, 1993

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                            Times Publishing Company


                              66 of 187 DOCUMENTS

                         St. Petersburg Times (Florida)

                   December 29, 1993, Wednesday, City Edition

State may sue over refugees

BYLINE: ELIZABETH WILLSON

SECTION: TAMPA BAY AND STATE; Pg. 1B

LENGTH: 820 words

DATELINE: TALLAHASSEE



Gov. Lawton Chiles wants to sue the federal government to recover hundreds of
millions of dollars Florida has spent caring for the flood of refugees and
illegal aliens who have entered the state since 1980.

  Chiles outlined his request to Attorney General Bob Butterworth in a  letter
that was released Tuesday.

  Although Chiles' communications director Ron Sachs emphasized the  importance
of the request, the Governor's Office provided few statistics to  back up its
claims.

  And an official with the U.S. Immigration and Naturalization Service  said he
couldn't comment or release any historical statistics on refugee  arrivals or
deportations from Florida.

  "Officially, we're not going to make any comment at all because the  governor
of the state of Florida is directing litigative action at us," said  INS Miami
spokesman George Waldroup. "And in any litigative action we do not  comment."

  State officials hope the suit will abate the ever-spiraling costs of  refugee
services, and they also will ask the courts to make the U.S.  government
strictly enforce immigration and naturalization laws, Sachs said.

  "We have attempted to identify the costs associated with the care and  service
provided to these refugees and estimate it is in the hundreds of  millions of
dollars of unreimbursed expenditures," Chiles wrote in his letter  to
Butterworth.

"The people of Florida should not be compelled to subsidize the entry of
(refugees and) illegal aliens into the United States nor should they tolerate
continued failure of the United States government to carry out its duty under
the law."

  Butterworth plans to file suit for the governor in early January, said  Peter
Antonacci, deputy attorney general.

  Since the Mariel boat lift from Cuba began in 1980, Florida has become a
haven for wave after wave of refugees from Cuba, Haiti, the Dominican  Republic,
Nicaragua and other Caribbean and Latin American countries, Chiles  said.

  "While we have great sympathy for the plight of these refugees, it is  clear
that their arrival creates costs which are ultimately borne by Florida's
citizens," Chiles said. "This can range from the cost of a patrolman to  detain
them upon reaching our shores to in excess of $ 200-million expended by  the
Dade County School Board to teach English as a second language."

  Florida picks up expenses for welfare, criminal justice, health care and  a
variety of other costs, Sachs said.

   The Governor's Office could not provide total expenses the state has
incurred or offer statistics on the number of refugees who have entered the
state since the Mariel boat lift.

  Sachs did offer some examples of expenses the state has paid for refugee
services in the past few years:

   Health care. The Medicaid program for poor families, in which the state
picks up roughly 44 cents on the dollar and the federal government pays the
rest, cost the state $ 9.6-million for refugees from 1989 through 1992.

   Incarceration. Department of Corrections expenses from 1989 through  1993 for
locking up illegal immigrants and Mariel felons and supervising their  probation
and parole were $ 184.53-million.

   Education. Department of Education expenses from 1991 and 1992 for  programs
that teach children who have limited English skills totaled  $ 421.64-million.

Of all the expenses the state picks up caring for refugees, medical care is  the
costliest, Antonacci said.

  "When you have someone who's ill and is an illegal alien and they show  up at
Tampa General or Miami Jackson (hospitals) and they're sick, instead of
Medicaid picking up the tab, it's the taxpayers of Florida," he said.

  While Chiles served in the U.S. Senate, he unsuccessfully tried to sue  the
federal government on similar grounds. The courts ruled he did not have  the
proper standing to sue.

  "I have long believed that the United States has a duty to enforce
immigration laws currently on the books and to prevent the illegal entry of
individuals into this country regardless of their source country," Chiles  said
in his letter. "If the United States government chooses to selectively  enforce
the law, it has a corresponding obligation to incur the costs  associated with
this selective enforcement."

  For instance, the U.S. Immigration and Naturalization Service routinely
detains and releases Haitian, Nicaraguan and other refugees into Florida's
communities before determining their asylum status, Chiles said. Once that
happens, he said, no effort is made to deport the refugees back to their home
country.

  The governor has been talking to Butterworth about the suit for the past
month, Antonacci said.

 "We're committed to filing suit to try to force the federal government  to take
responsibility for its actions," Antonacci said.

LOAD-DATE: January 1, 1994

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DISTRIBUTION: TAMPA BAY AND STATE

                            Times Publishing Company


                              67 of 187 DOCUMENTS

                         St. Petersburg Times (Florida)

                   February 26, 1992, Wednesday, City Edition

America able to absorb a wide range of cultures

BYLINE: ROGER E. HERNANDEZ

SECTION: BRANDON TIMES; COLUMN; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 816 words



Something nasty is fouling the national mood. Along the Mexican border, a
panicky Bush administration declares it expects a record number of illegal
crossings, and announces it will hire hundreds of new border patrol agents. In
Florida, Haitian boat people are ordered back to a country run by a murderous
government. In New Hampshire, a candidate on an anti-immigrant platform almost
defeats an incumbent president.

    Granted, immigration was not the decisive factor in the primary. It is
something the people of New Hampshire don't think about much.  But people do
think about it in Texas, California, Florida and New York.

    Patrick Buchanan's strong showing is a reminder that immigrant-bashers will
help set the agenda for the key primaries in those states. They will tap the
fear that immigrants, particularly those who are Hispanic, menace this country.
History tells us it's not the first time immigrants have been assailed. And
history also  tells us fear is unfounded.

    Immigration was an issue in the mid- to late 19th century, when millions of
impoverished Irish arrived. The hysteria they generated is illustrated by a
newspaper editorial cartoon from the era that showed Catholic bishops, wearing
miters in the shape of a crocodile's mouth, crawling onto America's golden
shore. The message: Irish Catholics Buchanan's own ancestors will ravage
traditional Anglo-Saxon Protestant values. There were other problems. Irish
gangs ruled the inner cities; riots wracked New York, Chicago, Baltimore. But
"Popish priests" did not take over the country, and the Irish eventually
assimilated.     The next nativist scare followed World War I. Between 1890 and
1914, no less than 14-million immigrants arrived, most of them unschooled Jewish
and Italian peasants. By 1920 nearly half the United States population was
either non-white, born outside the country, or born of foreign parents. Again,
the newcomers were perceived as a threat to the American Way.

    In some ways they were. Although most immigrants were law abiding, many were
radicals who challenged capitalistic democracy itself. A bomb on Wall Street
killed 38 people and wounded more than 200; homes of government officials and
business leaders were blown up; labor unions largely made up of immigrants
battled cops on the streets.

    Reaction was swift. In the unconstitutional Palmer raids, federal agents
stormed restaurants and clubs frequented by immigrants, arresting 10,000 and
deporting several thousand. Immigration laws were changed to favor northern
Europeans, so that 65,721 Britons entered by 1927, but just 5,802 Italians and
2,712 Russians, most of whom were Jewish. Yet these latest immigrants eventually
joined the mainstream too, and by the 1940s nativist fears subsided.

    Ironically, even as immigration from southern and eastern Europe was
restricted, the door was kept open to the Western Hemisphere.  In 1929, 60,000
Mexicans arrived more immigrants than from any other nation that year.

    A national backlash took awhile to develop because the number of Mexicans
and other Hispanics grew slowly. In 1950 the Census Bureau estimated there were
just 4-million people with Spanish surnames. We all know what's happened since:
There are now at least 22-million Hispanics in this country, and by the year
2000 there may be 35-million.

    Some Americans of old stock, as well as some children of the once-despised
immigrants, look around them and see Hispanic youth gangs, Hispanics who don't
speak English, Hispanics mired in poverty, and assume Hispanics are a dangerous
threat to American values. What they don't realize is that we are right in the
midst of the transition period. The millions of Hispanic newcomers who have not
yet found their place make it appear that Hispanics in general will never become
real Americans.

    Earlier nativist panics always occurred in the middle of transitional
periods for other waves of immigrants, and the latest scare is no exception.

    To be sure, times are different. Ethnic pride is no longer supposed to be
shameful, so new immigrants are more likely to keep elements of their culture
than past groups. Still, this will enrich the cultural fabric of the country,
not tear it apart.

    Nativism is, unfortunately, as American as hot dogs and apple pie.  But so
is something else: the ability of this nation to absorb a myriad of cultures.
This ability, along with the democracy invented by the original colonists, is
what makes America great, sometimes in spite of itself.
 Roger E. Hernandez is an adjunct member of the journalism faculty at Fairleigh
Dickinson University and Bloomfield College in New Jersey. Born in Cuba, he came
to the United States in 1965 when his parents were exiled by Fidel Castro.
 1992 King Features Syndicate Inc.

LOAD-DATE: November 4, 1992

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DISTRIBUTION: BRANDON TIMES; TAMPA

TYPE: COLUMN

                            Times Publishing Company


                              68 of 187 DOCUMENTS

                         St. Petersburg Times (Florida)

                      March 7, 1989, Tuesday, City Edition

This shouldn't happen in America

BYLINE: ANTHONY LEWIS

SECTION: EDITORIAL; Columns; Pg. 12A

LENGTH: 703 words



It could be a story by Kafka.

     A man looks for freedom in a new country. He is educated there,    goes to
work, marries. Then the authorities declare him an enemy of the    state.

     He asks why, but they will not say. He hires lawyers, he goes to    court,
but he can never find out what he is supposed to have done. In    the end he and
his wife have to leave the country.

     But the story did not happen in the grim fantasy world of Franz    Kafka,
or in the reality of some Stalinist state. It happened in the    United States.

     The names of the characters are Emil and Judy Suciu. He came to the
United States from Romania 20 years ago, as a student. He studied
aeronautical engineering at MIT and went on to get master's and    doctor's
degrees at Boston University.

     Starting in 1972, Suciu sought permission from the Immigration and
Naturalization Service (INS) to stay in the United States after his    student
status ended. But the INS denied his application for permanent    residence. The
barrier was the McCarran-Walter Immigration Act's ban on    people who have
belonged to foreign communist parties.

     Suciu had indeed joined the party in Romania. He had to in order to
become a university student.

     He was allowed to stay in the country temporarily, and in 1977 Emil
Suciu and Judy were married. A lawyer advised him to try again, on the    basis
of his marriage to an American citizen, for adjustment of his    immigration
status to that of a permanent resident. Again the INS said    no.        In 1979
Suciu had a deportation hearing before an immigration    judge. Four years
passed without a decision. Then the judge called    another hearing. He ordered
an investigative report on Suciu's record    in this country, and the
investigators found no derogatory information.

 Suciu explained how he had been forced to join the party in Romania.

     The judge finally decided the case in the summer of 1983. He found    that
Suciu's party membership had been involuntary, so the    McCarran-Walter bar did
not apply. He noted that there were no blotches    on Suciu's record in 14 years
in America.

     But the judge nevertheless turned down the application for    permanent
residence. Why? He said he had been shown classified material    that indicated
Suciu might be a threat to national security.

     What was the charge? Who made it? The judge would not say. He    invoked
another provision of the McCarran-Walter Act, which allows the    use of secret
material in proceedings to exclude aliens from the United    States. (Because
Suciu had never been admitted as a permanent resident,    he was technically in
the status of an alien seeking entry.)        To label someone a threat to
national security without giving him a    chance to cross-examine his accusers,
or even to know what the charge    is about, sounds unconstitutional. But a
closely divided Supreme Court    held in 1956 that the guarantee of due process
of law in the    Constitution does not apply to entering aliens.

     Suciu was ordered deported to Romania. That would have put his life    at
risk because he had publicly condemned the tyranny of the Romanian
government.

     Judy and Emil Suciu asked Canada to take them as refugees. In    October
1985 they were admitted to Canada, and there they live. Suciu    still does not
have the faintest notion of what it is that has branded    him in official
American eyes.

     The United States should long since have outgrown the fear that    gave
rise to the McCarran-Walter Act. Congress should amend the law to    let someone
in Suciu's position have a chance of meeting the charge.

     But Attorney general Dick Thornburgh does not have to wait for    Congress.

 The statute allows but does not require him to rely on secret    charges in
such a case. He should establish a fair procedure to test    charges that can so
deeply wound a life.

  New York Times News Service

LOAD-DATE: November 9, 1992

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: COLUMN

                            Times Publishing Company


                              69 of 187 DOCUMENTS

                         St. Petersburg Times (Florida)

                     August 3, 1993, Tuesday, City Edition

This family has earned right to stay

BYLINE: JACQUIN SANDERS

SECTION: LARGO-SEMINOLE TIMES; FACES IN THE CROWD; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 545 words



It is a family off of a Fourth of July poster.

Father and mother are tall, smiling, athletic-looking. The girls are class
president-pretty and on their school honor rolls. The family pet is a kitten
named Fluffy.

They look - and live - like the stereotypical all-American family. And the
Immigration and Naturalization Service is trying to ship them from their home
in Dunedin to Poland.

"The girls are miserable when they think about it," says Waldemar  Linowski, 37.
"Only the oldest was born in Poland, and none of them can speak  more than a few
words of Polish."

But U.S. immigration law makes no allowances. The law says Poland is no  longer
a Communist state, but a democracy. Therefore Linowski, a supporter of
Solidarity, the anti-Communist union, is no longer in danger of political
persecution.

In 1980, Communist police caught him distributing the Solidarity newspaper.

"They took me to the police station and, off and on for the next 24 hours,  hit
me on the back. I didn't tell them anything, and they let me go home. But  from
then on, they followed me.

"There are two reasons we don't want to go back to Poland. One is that we  love
the U.S. The other is those same police who beat me up and then followed  me are
still there. Only the top layer of government in Poland has changed.
Underneath, the civil servants, the police are still on the job."

In 1981, Linowski, wife Renata, and oldest daughter Anna, then a baby, fled  to
Austria, then to South Africa, where Linowski, an electrician, worked in  the
gold mines.

There was more trouble for the family. They couldn't understand apartheid.
Linowski had 12 blacks working for him, and he could not learn to keep himself
aloof.

"When you had black people in your living room, you weren't supposed to  let
them sit on the couch or the easy chairs," Renata said. "If you do, you  have to
keep your curtains closed so nobody can see. We're religious people.  We
couldn't live like that."

Linowski got in trouble with a new set of police. "I saw some right wing  types
beating up a black man, so I reported them at the police station. A few  days
later, I went back to find out what had been done. They told me my report  was
lost."

Linowski was threatened, then beaten up. The family dog was poisoned.

They lived in South Africa for four years, and felt less and less at home,
although their younger daughters, Monika and Angelika, now 10 and 7, were born
there.

In 1986, the family came to America on a six-month tourist visa to visit
relatives who had settled in the Tampa Bay area. Linowski found work and
applied for an immigration visa for the family, citing danger of political
persecution in Poland and South Africa.

The legal battle has gone on since. "I work 10, 11, 12 hours a day to pay  legal
bills, and Renata works, too, in a nursing home," Linowski says.  Grinning, he
adds: "Other bills, too. Good American bills. For the house we  bought and the
car."

In July, lawyer Jeffrey Cosnow of Palm Harbor carried the case to the Board  of
Immigration Appeals Court in Washington, D.C. If the decision goes against
them, what then?

"We don't even think about living over there; we're American!" says Anna,  13.

LOAD-DATE: August 4, 1993

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DISTRIBUTION: LARGO-SEMINOLE TIMES; CLEARWATER TIMES; NORTH PINELLAS TIMES; CITY

 TIMES

GRAPHIC: COLOR PHOTO, SCOTT KEELER; The Linowskis of Dunedin: Waldemar, Renata
and daughters Monika, Anna and Angelika.

TYPE: COLUMN

                            Times Publishing Company


                              70 of 187 DOCUMENTS

                         St. Petersburg Times (Florida)

                January 17, 1993, Sunday, North Suncoast Edition

Baird, husband pay fine to INS

SECTION: NATIONAL; NATIONAL DIGEST; Pg. 12A

LENGTH: 897 words

DATELINE: LITTLE ROCK, Ark.; PITTSBURGH; MIAMI; NEW YORK; WASHINGTON



Zoe Baird, the nominee for attorney general, and her husband on Saturday paid  a
$ 2,900 fine for employing illegal aliens in their home. A Clinton transition
spokesman said the president-elect considers the matter resolved.
Communications director George Stephanopoulos said in a statement that Baird
and her husband, Paul Gewirtz, paid the civil penalty to the Immigration and
Naturalization Service. Baird's employment of an undocumented Peruvian couple
to serve as babysitter and driver had become an issue at her Senate
confirmation hearing.

Baboon liver patient improving

PITTSBURGH - The world's second recipient of a baboon liver was showing signs
of improvement Saturday, six days after his operation, but was still in
critical condition, doctors said. A spokeswoman for the University of
Pittsburgh Medical Center said the patient showed signs of becoming more aware
after his transplant surgery Jan. 10, and follow-up operations Thursday.  "They
(doctors) say he is a little more awake than previously and is now able  to
squeeze the hands of family and doctors when asked to," the spokeswoman  said.
But she said doctors were still treating the 62-year-old man as if he  were
experiencing organ rejection. He remains in critical but stable  condition.

CNN broadcast being probed

MIAMI - A federal grand jury is investigating Cable News Network in connection
with its 1990 broadcast of Manuel Noriega's telephone calls from prison, the
Miami Herald reported Saturday. Special prosecutor Robert Dunlap has  subpoenaed
two CNN staff members, demanding they produce tapes and other  information about
the telecast, the newspaper reported. The probe surrounds a  dispute between the
Atlanta-based television network and U.S. District Judge  William Hoeveler, who
presided over Noriega's drug trial. Hoeveler had ordered  CNN to refrain from
broadcasting the taped conversations between Noriega and  his lawyers.

Groups urge Colorado boycott

Representatives of two major religious organizations are recommending that
their groups support a growing list of national associations boycotting
Colorado since that state passed a law restricting gay rights. Rabbi Alexander
Schindler, president of the Union of American Hebrew Congregations, said he
would recommend that organization hold no more meetings in Colorado unless the
state reverses the law. Friday, a Denver district judge barred the measure  from
taking effect until a higher state court could determine whether it is
constitutional. In addition, members of several groups within the
8.9-million-member United Methodist Church have urged that denomination find a
new location for its general conference, set o be held in Denver in April  1996.



Journalist's remains identified

NEW YORK - Human remains dug up in Cambodia last year have been identified as
those of an American NBC correspondent who disappeared 23 years ago while
covering the war in Southeast Asia, an NBC official said Saturday. Welles
Hangen's remains were positively identified Friday night by the U.S. Army
Central Identification Laboratory, said Arthur Lord, a senior producer for NBC
News in Burbank, Calif. Hangen was one of five television journalists believed
executed by the Khmer Rouge following their disappearance in the Cambodian
jungle on May 31, 1970. He was 40.

FBI director avoided paying taxes on limo, Justice says

WASHINGTON - A Justice Department ethics inquiry has found that FBI Director
William Sessions engaged in a "sham arrangement" to avoid paying taxes on  the
unofficial use of his government limousine, administration officials said
Saturday. They also said he refused to cooperate with an investigation into
whether he received special favors on his home mortgage. Outgoing Attorney
General William Barr also concluded that Sessions had used his FBI aircraft  for
personal trips, sometimes adding on brief government meetings to make it  appear
that the trips were intended for legitimate business. The memorandum  did not
specify disciplinary action, but Barr directed Sessions to repay the  government
for at least three of the trips and change his administrative  practices, the
officials said. The findings of the inquiry were outlined in a  harshly worded
memorandum sent to Sessions on Friday by Barr. Sessions is at  the midpoint of a
10-year term. He could not be reached for comment.

Briefly . . .

Snowbound woman faces amputation: Doctors in Reno, Nev., on Monday will  partly
amputate the feet of a woman who survived eight days huddling with her  infant
son in a snow cave while her husband sought help. Surgeons said Friday  they
hope to preserve enough of Jennifer Stolpa's feet to allow her to walk  without
prostheses.

Manufacturers agree to reduce lead: Ten china manufacturers in Sacramento,
Calif., on Friday agreed to reduce by 50 percent the lead in glazes and
decorations on dishes and put warning labels on their products under  settlement
of a consumer-protection lawsuit.

Archdiocese to reopen sex abuse cases: A review board will reopen every case  of
child sexual abuse by still-living priests in the archdiocese of Boston to  make
sure the church response was adequate, Cardinal Bernard Law said Friday.

LOAD-DATE: January 20, 1993

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: DIGEST

                            Times Publishing Company


                              71 of 187 DOCUMENTS

                         St. Petersburg Times (Florida)

                   December 30, 1992, Wednesday, City Edition

Asian crime called rampant in United States

SECTION: NATIONAL; NATIONAL DIGEST; Pg. 7A

LENGTH: 427 words

DATELINE: WASHINGTON; SAN FRANCISCO; PASADENA, Calif.



Asian organized crime is running rampant in the United States and the world
because Western police forces are ill-equipped to deal with it, Senate
investigators reported Tuesday. Asian gangs are operating in the United States
and globally in everything from drug trafficking, computer chip thefts,
business extortion and money laundering, they said after a 15-month
investigation. Much of the crime is violent, investigators said, as they
pointed to ethnic Chinese groups dominating the expanding heroin trade. The
report was released by Sen. Sam Nunn, D-Ga., and Sen. William Roth, R-Del.,
respectively chairman and senior Republican of the Senate Permanent
Subcommittee on Investigations.

Ship's crew charged in immigrants case

SAN FRANCISCO - The nine crew members of the misery ship that brought 180
Chinese immigrants to San Francisco have been charged with conspiracy and
illegally smuggling immigrants. The complaint, filed Monday in San Francisco
federal court, is based largely on sworn statements in which the crew members
of the Manyoshi Maru admitted they had been hired to ferry their
multimillion-dollar human cargo from China illegally, and received bonus pay
for the job. An INS agent's affidavit describes a sophisticated smuggling
operation that used phony sailing papers, special radio channels and code
words, and was headed by a mysterious man identified only as "Mr. Wong." The
165-foot boat docked in the San Francisco Bay last Tuesday under U.S. Coast
Guard escort. The ship had languished off the coast without fresh food or  water
for 10 days after a landing boat failed to meet it and bring the  passengers
ashore. The nine crew members, all Indonesian nationals, are in  federal
custody. If convicted, each man faces up to 10 years in prison before  being
returned to Indonesia.

Brute force used to free "Galileo' antenna

PASADENA, Calif. - NASA used brute force Tuesday in a last-ditch attempt to
open the Galileo spaceship's jammed main antenna, which threatens to hinder  the
craft's $ 1.4-billion mission to explore Jupiter during 1995-97. Engineers
hoped to free the umbrella-like antenna within the next few weeks by quickly
turning its drive motors on and off thousands of times in a method known as
"hammering." The motors were turned on and off 180 times during the first  round
of hammering Tuesday morning, said Alan Wood, a spokesman at NASA's Jet
Propulsion Laboratory. The antenna has failed to open fully since April 1991.

LOAD-DATE: January 4, 1993

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: DIGEST

                            Times Publishing Company


                              72 of 187 DOCUMENTS

                         St. Petersburg Times (Florida)

                     August 28, 1992, Friday, City Edition

"I ain't got no place else to go'

SECTION: NATIONAL; Pg. 7A

LENGTH: 106 words



At the entrance to the Florida Keys and southwest of Homestead is Florida City
one of the areas hardest hit by Hurricane Andrew. The city is home to hundreds
of migrant workers and Haitian immigrants, and the storm left many without
homes, food, water or jobs the area's crops were destroyed. The National Guard
and International Red Cross handed out food and water Thursday to residents,
many of whom had not eaten for days.  "I was born here and I ain't got no place
else to go," said Lester Rohrer, who lives in his car because his house was
destroyed. "I guess I'll just get the floor cleared off and rebuild something."

LOAD-DATE: October 1, 1992

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: COLOR PHOTO, JACK ROWLAND, (5); COLOR MAP

TYPE: STAND ALONE ART

                            Times Publishing Company


                              73 of 187 DOCUMENTS

                         St. Petersburg Times (Florida)

                       June 7, 1992, Sunday, City Edition

AMERICA: a land of diversity

BYLINE: Maria D. Vesperi

SECTION: PERSPECTIVE; Pg. 1D

LENGTH: 1253 words



New data from a survey conducted during the 1990 U.S. Census reveal an
unparalleled pattern of ethnic diversity. The percentage of foreign-born
residents may have been greater early in the century, but the absolute number of
Americans born abroad, 19.7-million, is higher now than at any other time in the
nation's history.



   More than 31-million residents speak a language other than English at home,
and close to half of them, by their own account, do not speak English well. Some
8.6-million newcomers entered the country from 1980 to 1990, not as many but
almost as during the landmark decade of 1900 to 1910.

        The figures are particularly striking because most people continue to
associate mass immigration with the waves of Irish and Germans who came in the
mid-19th century, or with turn-of-the-century Ellis Island.

    Indeed, the continued dominance of Ellis Island as a symbol of immigration
extends well beyond its bureaucratic life. Defunct as an immigrant processing
center since 1943 and as a detention center since 1954, it is now a major
tourist attraction. As such, its nostalgic significance can be overwhelming to
visitors who wait patiently outdoors, often for hours, to travel there by ferry.
Some tourists seem to model their behavior after turn-of-the-century
photographs, which often captured immigrants in expressions of resigned
passivity.

      Perhaps there is a bit of romance in the notion of surrendering themselves
to the unknown, as their ancestors did. It is a fantasy not shared by most
Americans of African descent, or by those who think too long about some of the
reasons that prompted people to flee their homelands.

      What is shared by many people who have been here for a while is a longing
for the type of closure symbolized by Ellis Island, the monument to our
immigrant past. In a nation that is short on historical precedent and
perennially remolded by culture change, it isn't always easy to distinguish
xenophobia from that well-cultivated American trait, competitiveness. Big
influxes of newcomers don't just add bodies to the game, they rewrite the rules.


      In a 1989 book called Ethnic Differences: Schooling and Social Structure
among the Irish, Italians, Jews, and Blacks in an American City, 1880-1935, Joel
Perlmann of Harvard University tried to sort the factors that influenced school
attendance and grade level achievement among African-American and immigrant
children in Providence, R.I.

    Working from school records, census data and library archives, Perlmann
compiled an exhaustive collection of statistics. He then homed in on a variety
of ideas used to explain ethnic differences in school attainment levels, such as
pre-migration cultural history, economic status, parental literacy,
single-parent households, job opportunities and the discrimination experienced
by children in school. His findings, drawn from our earlier period of mass
immigration, are suggestive for policy makers today.

         Perlmann found, for instance, a strong correlation between Irish
political power and school attendance rates. In 1880, less than 4 percent of
teachers were the children of Irish immigrants. New Englanders of British
descent were in power, and they made no secret of their enmity for the Irish
Catholics. By the 1920s, however, the Irish were active in ward politics and
almost a quarter of the public school teachers had Irish immigrant parents, even
more had immigrant grandparents.


      The rate of high school enrollment jumped dramatically during that time,
from roughly 2.9 percent of Irish boys in 1880 to 73.5 percent in 1925. Even
controlling for other variables such as social background and parental income,
Irish children displayed a dramatic improvement in school.

      Perlmann surmised that the Irish began keeping their children in school
longer, at least in part, "because by that time they felt more comfortable with
the public schools. They felt more comfortable, in turn, because the bitter
feelings between them and the Yankees had diminished, because they exerted more
control over the schools than they had formerly, and because their own daughters
were
 now heavily represented among the teachers." He added that as job
discrimination eased, "the preparation for jobs . . . and the increased
awareness of opportunity, may have encouraged extended schooling."

       In other words, as the Irish forced changes in the system, school
achievement among their children and grandchildren came up to speed. Their
experience was starkly different from that of African-American families in
Providence, who were highly literate in 1880 and strongly motivated to send
their children to school. In 1900, African-American children had the highest
school attendance rates in the city. They also were least represented among the
child labor force, which drew many of the Irish and Italian children to
factories at early ages.

         Ironically, while discrimination kept the Irish out of school in the
1800s, it kept African-American children in. Perlmann found that these
youngsters were unable to get jobs or apprenticeships; going to school was their
only option. Once there, however, inordinate numbers were kept in the lower
grades or tracked in inferior programs if they did advance to high school. In
1915, only 11 percent of those who entered secondary schools were likely to be
hired in white-collar jobs, as compared to 68 percent of whites. Even
controlling for a complex mix of class, educational and family background
factors, "we are left with a huge race difference in occupational attainments
that cannot be explained by any of the factors we have considered," Perlmann
wrote.

      His conclusion, not surprisingly, was that "racial discrimination in the
job market was extraordinarily powerful and destructive" with regard to
African-American grade level attainment in the early decades of the century,
when immigrant children were forging ahead. Some children were promoted, of
course; a few even went to college.

    "There was no absolute exclusion of blacks from any program, no rule, spoken
or unspoken, that worked with the effect of a legal barrier," according to
Perlmann. With few role models among teachers or in the workplace, however, many
African-American students came to understand in the 1920s that they were marking
time in schools that weren't preparing them for adult roles.


   Around 1915, those Italian boys who went to high school (only 17 percent did)
were likely to enroll in the college preparatory program. One reason was that
Italian boys who did not follow the trend by dropping out were a self-selected,
academically motivated group. Another reason, Perlmann noted, was that "the
Italians were closest to the content of the classical curriculum. Much of it . .
.  involved the history and language of Italy, a fact that must have been a
source of pride in Italian homes. Moreover, the Latin language may well have
been perceived as less of a hurdle to children from homes in which Italian was
spoken."

    More than 75 years later, new groups of immigrants are surging through the
schools and into the workplace. Their success, and the future success of the
nation, will, as always, be affected by curriculum content and by the schools'
relevancy to their lives.
  Maria D. Vesperi is an editorial writer for the Times.

LOAD-DATE: November 3, 1992

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: COLOR PHOTO, courtesy Statue of Liberty National Monument; BLACK AND
WHITE PHOTO, Times files; BLACK AND WHITE PHOTO, courtesy Museum of the City of
New York; Early immigrants arriving at Ellis Island at the turn of the century;
New citizens take oaths of citizenship a year ago at Ruth Eckerd Hall in
Clearwater, 381 immigrants became citizens at one of the biggest naturalization
ceremonies in Tampa Bay's history; In a turn-of-the-century photograph, a group
of immigrants wearing "landing cards," waits for the ferry at Ellis Island to
take them to their new homes in the United States

TYPE: COLUMN

                            Times Publishing Company


                              74 of 187 DOCUMENTS

                         St. Petersburg Times (Florida)

                             March 24, 1996, Sunday

Don't shut the schoolhouse door

SECTION: PERSPECTIVE; EDITORIALS; Pg. 2D

LENGTH: 307 words



The U.S. House of Representatives has handed children of illegal immigrants a
sad lesson about American values with the approval of a measure that would
allow states to bar those children from public schools.

It doesn't matter that the House action may be merely symbolic because it  will
be stopped elsewhere in the legislative process. It is shameful.

The children of illegal immigrants are not here by choice. So why should  they
be punished? And once they are here, do we want them left to their own  devices,
maybe roaming the streets or getting into trouble? Wouldn't it be  better for
them and for the rest of us if they were in classrooms where they  might learn
enough to carve out productive lives for themselves?

No, say the 257 House members who voted to close the school doors.

"This is the right thing to do to send the right signal around the  world," said
House Speaker Newt Gingrich, speaking for the measure in a rare  floor speech.
"Come to America for opportunity. Do not come to America to  live off the
American taxpayer."

The measure is aimed at easing the financial burden on states such as  Florida,
with larger numbers of immigrants. The cost to educate children of  illegal
immigrants in Florida runs more than $ 400-million annually, all of  which is
paid by the state. Yet Gov. Lawton Chiles said he would rather have  the
children in school than on the streets, a humane contrast to the speaker  and
his bombast.

Rep. John Bryant, D-Texas, said Gingrich and the Republicans wanted to set  the
stage for a veto by President Clinton, which they would use against him in  the
election. Whatever the reason, shutting these children out of school would  be
wrong. We should be doing all we can to improve the lives of children, not
using them to score cheap political points.

LOAD-DATE: March 26, 1996

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: EDITORIAL

                    Copyright 1996 Times Publishing Company


                              75 of 187 DOCUMENTS

                         St. Petersburg Times (Florida)

                April 1, 1996, Monday, 0 South Pinellas Edition

House vote against immigrant services will hurt children

SECTION: EDITORIAL; LETTERS; Pg. 15A

LENGTH: 1970 words



This is to comment on the action of the U.S. House of Representatives which
recently voted against providing public education and health care to the
children of illegal immigrants. We have to point out that most of these
children are American citizens, and denying those services constitutes a
violation of human rights. Also, with this legislation we are creating two
classes of citizenship - one for a segment of the population with all the
rights and privileges, and a second-class citizenship of servitude with no
rights to those whose parents are illegal immigrants. The U.S. Constitution
only allows one type of citizenship that provides equality under the law to  all
American citizens.

The Universal Declaration of Human Rights, approved by the General Assembly  of
the United Nations in their articles 25 and 26, states that "everyone has  the
right to a standard of living adequate for the health and well-being of  himself
and of his family, including food, clothing, housing, and medical  care, and
necessary social servicesandthe right to education" Also, the U.S.  Supreme
Court decided in 1982 that the states have to provide public education  to the
children of illegal immigrants. It is for sure that this issue is going  to be
resolved again by the highest court.

It is incredible that the U.S. House of Representatives uses its great  powers
to persecute a powerless minority, especially children. These  congressmen are
the ones who do not hesitate in approving corporate welfare  with billions of
dollars to the rich and powerful, and allow a culture of  death trying to
eliminate the ban on assault weapons that are not necessary  for living. This is
a Congress that deprives those who don't have anything and  gives with full
hands to those who have everything.

Not permitting children to attend school and having them on the streets is
promoting crime; and denying health care is promoting diseases that don't
discriminate against any ethnic group. If this legislation finally is approved
and becomes law, it will be legal, but also immoral and unfair.

Arturo R. Rivera, Brandon

Good kids deserve recognition

      Re: Ushering in a Tinseltown tribute, photo, March 21.

Perhaps I failed to see any write-up except the photo pertaining to the
outstanding CineMania production created by hard-working teachers, students  and
school personnel. It was beautifully performed before a sold-out Bayfront
Center audience of 4,500.

With drastic budget cuts, when the school system and teachers work so hard  to
build, and reinforce, self-esteem amid much criticism, it is regrettable  their
hard work and very successful performances of all who participated in  such
coordination among participating schools did not receive the positive  coverage
it deserved. It would have shown how much the audience appreciated  the efforts
of all participants. Good coverage might also have enhanced the  extra sale of
your paper to proud relatives, friends and those unable to  obtain tickets due
to the sell-out. Sadly, ill behavior and juvenile crimes  receive much unworthy
notoriety. Please give recognition to the good things so  many of our young
citizenry are involved in.

Our thanks to all who worked so diligently to make this such a delightful
Festival of States event. Hopefully, it will be repeated next year.

Mildred Myers, Treasure Island

      Recently, I, my husband and several friends served as hosts at the
Canadian Pavilion at the Folk Fair at the ThunderDome. It was Friday morning
and afternoon, and thousands of teenage students from many of your local  middle
and high schools attended this fair.

We were both thrilled and proud to see so many teenagers enjoying  themselves,
patiently waiting at the food lines, being very responsive to  information,
asking informed questions and saying "Thank you" often.

Only too often do we get great press from one or two youngsters who have  gone
astray - so it was felt that these many kids should be complimented for  their
good behavior which encourages us to know the future of this great  country is
indeed in good hands.

Sincere compliments go also to the many parents and teachers who obviously  are
showing these kids good examples in living.

Austin and Eileen Malone, New Brunswick, Canada

Let prisoners teach prisoners

      Your recent editorial Hitting the books behind bars (March 22) addresses
an important issue. But it leaves out one vital dimension: teaching resources
among prisoners themselves, providing opportunity for them to teach one
another.

Appropriating more money to fund prison education, as that education now is
carried on, never will be a sufficient answer. The rest of the answer (and the
larger opportunity) is to redesign the learning-behind-bars education process
so that the inmates themselves provide much of the teaching resource,  augmented
by outside volunteers.

Doing this requires educating (and rating) prison management officials on
understanding and implementing effective programs to turn the prison  population
into a communal learning academy - in which inmates are organized  to teach each
other - with a minimum objective being the acquisition of a GED  for all.
Outside volunteer mentors then can be added as additional tutors.

It works. I know from first-hand experience. I helped design and implement  such
a program at a state prison in Indiana 20 years ago. I also was involved  in the
installation of such a system at a North Carolina state prison five  years ago -
a prison to which 300 volunteers came regularly to augment the  teaching
resource pool.

The cost of such a program is small. In effect, the prison staff educator
becomes a dean, coordinating the volunteers both inside and outside the
facility. Nearby colleges are drawn upon for those ready to take college-level
courses.

It's unconventional in the prison management field because wardens aren't  rated
on such outcome measures as how well remedial and continuing education  is
mobilized. Furthermore, inmates are expected to work substantial hours,  while
learning is something they are permitted to do only in the time left  over.

Better learning behind bars is a key to reducing recidivism and thereby
reducing multibillion-dollar pressures to build and expand prisons.

By itself, incarceration is severe punishment. Failure to mobilize on-hand
resources to make learning behind bars truly effective is not punishment - it
is shortsighted stupidity.

Morgan Doughton, St. Petersburg

Experimental surgery?

      Your paper has been very insightful when it comes to the HMO industry.  My
HMO, Principal Health Care of Florida, recently turned me down when my  doctors
requested approval to perform lung volume reduction surgery. Principal  claimed
that this was an experimental/investigative procedure. I wrote and  asked them
what their threshold for "experimental/investigative" was for  lung volume
reduction surgery. In other words, I wanted to know what they  would accept as
proof that this surgery was acceptable and safe. They referred  me to Blue Cross
regulations. In other words, Principal Health Care had no  knowledge what was or
was not acceptable but relied on the largest medical  insurer in the state of
Florida to set their standards for them.

After investigating this situation, I have found this is a common practice
throughout the medical insurance industry. It would appear that these  companies
are in collusion and operating a monopolistic enterprise.

Further, the federal government has contracted with Blue Cross to run its
Medicare program within the state of Florida. In a recent article in the  Times,
Medicare, after years of paying for this procedure, has put a  moratorium on
lung volume reduction, claiming it was  experimental/investigative. This is the
very same claim Blue Cross, Principal  Health Care and other HMOs are using to
deny non-Medicare patients this  procedure.

This is a safe and acceptable surgical procedure so long as you have the  money
to pay for it out of your own pocket. Largo Medical Center, Tampa  General and
Meese Hospital are just a few of the hospitals in this area that  are performing
this type of surgery. The medical insurance industry knows  there is a potential
for several hundred thousand patients who could be  candidates for this
life-saving procedure. In order to limit its exposure, the  medical insurance
industry has labeled this surgery as  experimental/investigative and has
successfully gotten Medicare to go along  with its coverup.

Richard Samson, St. Petersburg

Re: Medicare cancellation of lung volume reduction surgery.

I was scheduled to have this surgery done on Jan. 17 in Orange, Calif.  Medicare
was going to pay for the operation. All arrangements were made on  Dec. 6, 1995,
including four plane tickets. On Dec. 7, I was informed that  Medicare had
stopped paying for lung volume reduction surgery.

On Dec. 6, Chapman Medical Center in Orange, Calif., received notice that
Medicare issued notice of cancellation of coverage for this type of surgery
retroactive to Dec. 1, 1995.

This surgery is not a cure for emphysema patients, but it does give them a
productive life to live. If I were a convicted killer on death row, the
government would give me 12 to 20 years to fight for my life. But because I am
old and sick, they pull the plug. It's a shame the way the elderly and the  sick
are treated in our rich country. Now, all of a sudden, Medicare claims  this
surgery is still experimental and too risky. Do they really worry about  the
risk? Or is it the cost?

If I am willing to take that risk, it's my life. If a doctor in the medical
field wants to learn more about lung volume reduction, that's the only way to
learn - with risk.

I am 62 years old, on oxygen 24 hours a day and on a 50-foot leash, like a  dog.
You let a dog run once a day, but we emphysema patients can't.

Katie Marticiuc, Seminole

Dutch spoken there

      This is in response to the March 20 letter, Royko is insulting.

As a person of Dutch descent, I would like to set the writer straight on a  few
points.

Yes, there is a language called Dutch that is spoken in a country called  the
Netherlands by millions of people. Many of these Dutch people may also  speak
German, but they do so as a second, third or fourth language. German has  never
been, and will never be, the language of the people of the Netherlands,  that is
the Dutch people. Furthermore, I strongly recommend to the writer that  he never
suggest to Dutch people that they speak any form of German,  particularly not to
any person who lived under the German occupation of the  Netherlands during
World War II as my father and grandparents did. To do so  would probably invite
some sort of physical harm.

As a linguist who has studied and speaks both Dutch and German, I can say  there
are similarities in the two languages because they are both Germanic  languages.
(The same sort of similarities that are found in Spanish and  Italian, for
example, which are both Latin languages.) However, they are two  separate and
distinct languages, and Dutch is not some sort of "low German."

Renee J. White-Pheiffer, St. Petersburg

Share your opinions

   Letters for publication should be addressed to Letters to the Editor, P.O.
Box 1121, St. Petersburg, 33731. They can be sent by E-mail to
letterssptimes.com or they can be sent by fax to 893-8675.

They should be brief and must include the writer's address, signature and  phone
number.

LOAD-DATE: April 2, 1996

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: BLACK AND WHITE CARTOON, DON ADDIS; In a frame titled, "Same-Sex
Marriages", two electric plugs stand at a window selling adapters.

TYPE: LETTER

                    Copyright 1996 Times Publishing Company


                              76 of 187 DOCUMENTS

                         St. Petersburg Times (Florida)

                     January 25, 1993, Monday, City Edition

'Under the table' pay is sometimes a matter of survival

BYLINE: JENNIFER L. STEVENSON

SECTION: FLORIDIAN; PG; PARENTAL GUIDANCE; Pg. 1D

LENGTH: 470 words



Rosario has a saying, a steadfast rule that is never broken.

"I get paid weekly and in cash."

Rosario gets paid precious little to take care of the five children who  race
around the hardscrabble yard and small trailer in rural Hillsborough  County,
but she knows one thing.

If you take out taxes, she gets paid even less.

Her clients pay her $ 6 a child a day for babysitting services. If she cares
for five children, as she usually does, she makes about $ 150 a week.

"I make so little," Rosario said last week in Spanish. "I don't know  about
taxes."

It's a shadowy land, where the tax man is not welcome.

To add to her dilemma, she is an undocumented resident, an illegal alien.  If
her clients were to withhold taxes from her check, she would be reported to
Immigration and Naturalization Services.

"It's no good, these taxes," she said. "It causes problems."

Just ask Zoe Baird.

She knows all about the problems of hiring illegal residents as child-care
workers and failing to pay taxes: That scuttled her chances at becoming
attorney general last week.

But for Rosario, it's not a matter of political advancement but survival.  For
Rosario - not her real name - and thousands of other child-care workers in  the
Tampa Bay area, it might be the only way they can survive on minimal  wages.

"There's an entire underground economy," said Rochelle A. Reback, a  director
for the Florida Board of the American Civil Liberties Union and a  lawyer who
represents underprivileged clients. "The broader issue is why we  pay our
child-care workers so little money to begin with. We as a society do  not value
child-care work."

Lawyers, child-care advocates and providers all say that paying babysitters  and
nannies "under the table" is a common way to get around the complicated  tax
paperwork, and to give the employees extra money they might "lose" to  taxes.

For example, a nanny who makes $ 6 an hour without taxes makes about $ 240 a
week. But take out 27.5 percent owed to the government in taxes and Social
Security, and suddenly the take-home pay is about $ 174.

"The employer doesn't want to pay withholding because it costs more,"  Reback
said. "The employee doesn't want it because they will make more  money."

And when babysitters who receive welfare or other entitlements make extra
money, they might lose government help.

"It's a slippery slope," Reback says. But she stresses that all employees
should pay taxes - and if they are worried about their babysitter losing money
they should raise the sitter's salary.

Debbie Brown, owner of Nannies Who Care in Dunedin, says people most often  fail
to pay taxes because they are lazy.

"It's easy," she says. "When people aren't sure what to do, they just  write one
simple check."

LOAD-DATE: January 29, 1993

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                            Times Publishing Company


                              77 of 187 DOCUMENTS

                         St. Petersburg Times (Florida)

                      April 23, 1993, Friday, City Edition

Genetic find may help cancer research

SECTION: NATIONAL; HEALTH & MEDICINE DIGEST; Pg. 10A

LENGTH: 316 words

DATELINE: WASHINGTON; BOSTON



Biologists have found an exception to one of the fundamental rules of  genetics,
a discovery that promises to provide new approaches to the control  of cancer
and other genetic diseases. Researchers say that the finding  suggests that
cancer could be fought by restoring a simple process called  imprinting, rather
than by trying to repair a defective tumor gene. "This  implies that, in some
situations, it may not be necessary to kill cancer  cells. It might be possible
to reason with them or educate them," said Samuel  Broder, director of the
National Cancer Institute.

Health care for illegal aliens is debated

WASHINGTON - President Clinton's health care task force is trying to decide
whether its plan for all Americans should include the nation's 5-million
illegal aliens. Clinton is expected to introduce his health care package next
month, possibly in a May 25 joint speech to Congress. His decision on
undocumented immigrants is sure to stir passions. "Serving all people is a
public health issue, but I'm concerned that it's getting caught up in the
xenophobia running amuck across the country," says Jane Delgado, chief
executive officer of the National Coalition of Hispanic Health and Human
Services Organizations. Congressional aides and Hispanic advocates say the  task
force staff favors extending health care coverage to undocumented  immigrants,
largely for public health reasons.

Some AIDS virus may resist AZT

BOSTON - People can catch strains of the AIDS virus already resistant to AZT,
doctors' main weapon against the virus, a study confirmed. While this
possibility has been raised by earlier research, the study provides clear
genetic evidence that the resistant variety can be transmitted. "It's no  longer
just theoretical," said Dr. Henry H. Balfour Jr. of the University of
Minnesota.

LOAD-DATE: April 24, 1993

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: DIGEST

                            Times Publishing Company


                              78 of 187 DOCUMENTS

                         St. Petersburg Times (Florida)

                      May 29, 1993, Saturday, City Edition

Hospital releases 2 of 5 stowaways

BYLINE: RICHARD DANIELSON; MARLENE SOKOL

SECTION: TAMPA BAY AND STATE; Pg. 6B

LENGTH: 370 words

DATELINE: TAMPA



One of five West African stowaways pulled from a barge after a 22-day ordeal  at
sea remained in serious condition late Friday, according to officials at  Tampa
General Hospital.

The stowaway, who the hospital identified as Joseph Oford, was in the  intensive
care unit recovering from severe dehydration resulting from a  5,000-mile voyage
in a hot, dark machine room aboard the barge Pearle Jahn.

Authorities think the men sneaked aboard as the barge was being towed out  of
its last port of call, the Ivory Coast capital of Abidjan.

The stowaways told officials they brought food and water for only 10 or 12  days
and had to drink their own urine during the last part of the trip.

The five men, who appear to be in their 20s, were emaciated and badly
dehydrated when paramedics and officials from the Coast Guard, Border Patrol
and Immigration and Naturalization Service pulled them from the barge. A
tugboat crew preparing to maneuver the barge into Tampa Electric Co.'s Big  Bend
docks in south Hillsborough County found the men.

Two were released from the hospital Thursday; a third was to be released  late
Friday. Oford and the last of the stowaways, who was in fair condition,
remained hospitalized Friday.

Because the men carried no papers and were very weak when they arrived,
officials with the hospital and the company that owns the barge had few  details
about their nationalities or identities Friday.

Gulfcoast Transit, a subsidiary of TECO Energy, will be responsible for
housing, feeding and sending the men home. A TECO spokesman said Friday that
the stowaways who had been released were being held at an undisclosed hotel.

"They being well-fed, well-housed," TECO's Mike Mahoney said. "We've  purchased
some clothing for them. Our primary focus is repatriation."

Sending the men home could take three days to five days, Mahoney said.

At Tampa General, a man who answered the telephone in the room of one of  the
stowaways said the patient would not speak to a reporter.

"I'm responsible for him right now, and I'm not allowing any information  out,"
said the man, who gave his name as Bill Pomajzl and referred all  inquiries to
Gulfcoast Transit.

LOAD-DATE: May 29, 1993

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DISTRIBUTION: TAMPA BAY AND STATE

                            Times Publishing Company


                              79 of 187 DOCUMENTS

                         St. Petersburg Times (Florida)

                     June 24, 1993, Thursday, City Edition

Teenage stowaway will go back, INS says

SECTION: TAMPA BAY AND STATE; TIMES DIGEST; Pg. 1B

LENGTH: 302 words

DATELINE: MIAMI



He's not "Guillermo Rosales." He's not 13. He's not an orphan. And he's not
staying in the United States, at least not if the INS has its way. Juan Carlos
Guzman, 16, has admitted he lied about his identity in hopes of staying in  this
country after he stowed away in the wheel well of a jet from Cali,  Colombia, to
Miami. Authorities aren't too sure about the stowaway part  either, and the
Immigration and Naturalization Service says he has to go.  "The stuff he said
about his family, his name and his age, none of that is  accurate," said Walter
Cadman, local INS director. "Given the fact that  other things haven't panned
out, we don't know how he really got here."  Skepticism about his story had
grown steadily since his arrival June 4. Last  week, he admitted he had lied
about his identity. Tuesday, his mother told NBC  she wants her son to stay in
the United States. Jairo Lozano, brother of the  Miami police officer acquitted
in a controversial killing, wants to adopt him.  But, said Cadman, "He can't
stay here because he has a family in Colombia."

Rape suspect knew

of HIV, officers say

MIAMI - Ignacio A. Perea Jr. kidnapped three boys and raped them, authorities
say. They've charged him with attempted murder because, they say, he knew he
was infected with the virus that causes AIDS. Perea is accused of snatching  the
boys off the street, blindfolding them and driving them to a warehouse or
private home where they were assaulted by Perea and an accomplice who has not
been found. Perea had a receipt for T-cell testing, records show. T-cell
testing is used after a diagnosis of HIV. A prosecutor declined to say whether
the boys, two 11-year-olds and one 13 at the time of the 1991 attacks, have
tested positive for HIV.

LOAD-DATE: June 24, 1993

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DISTRIBUTION: TAMPA BAY AND STATE

TYPE: DIGEST

                            Times Publishing Company


                              80 of 187 DOCUMENTS

                         St. Petersburg Times (Florida)

                      August 6, 1993, Friday, City Edition

Paralyzed alien's bid for asylum rejected

BYLINE: CAROL GENTRY

SECTION: TAMPA BAY AND STATE; Pg. 3B

LENGTH: 695 words



A paralyzed illegal alien who cost Bayfront Medical Center almost $ 150,000 in
free care has received word that his application for political asylum has been
denied.

But Jairo Barrios Avila says he is making no plans to return to his native
Guatemala. He is consulting a lawyer about filing an appeal, which could take
months. And he plans to marry his American girlfriend, a step that immigration
experts say could end the entire process.

Barrios Avila, 27, said he wants to stay in this country because here he  could
get vocational training and maybe a job as a telephone or computer  operator. In
Guatemala, he said, there is no help for people in wheelchairs.

Last year, when Barrios Avila fell out of a tree and became paralyzed from  the
mid-chest down, Bayfront treated him for months at no charge because the  state
pays only for life-threatening emergencies for illegal aliens.

Then, unwilling to keep him in a $ 700- to $ 800-a-day bed that he no longer
needed, the hospital paid a nursing home $ 3,800 a month to take care of him.

Barrios Avila's case was featured in the St. Petersburg Times on Jan. 10,  under
the headline, "We can't turn (him) out on the street." Those were the  words of
Mary Ann Wanucha, patient and family services director for Bayfront,  a
nonprofit hospital in St. Petersburg that provides charity care.

Worried that Bayfront could end up paying for Barrios Avila's care for  years,
Wanucha helped him apply for permanent residency in hopes of winning  him
coverage under Medicaid, a government health insurance program for the  poor.

Barrios Avila, who left the nursing home in March to live with his  girlfriend
in Bradenton, received notice last month that his application was  denied.

Wanucha says cases like Barrios Avila's raise fundamental questions about  the
health care system in the United States: "Is health care something we  want for
everybody? Is it an inalienable right, like the fire department or  the police
department?

"If so," she said, "somebody has to pay for it."

When a community hospital takes a big hit on an unpaid bill, those who pay  for
it are the insured patients who pay higher bills and ultimately higher
insurance premiums.

In November 1989, Barrios Avila crossed the Mexican border into Texas with  some
Salvadoran refugees. He said a judge allowed him to remain as a political
refugee. But authorities said they could find no record of such a hearing and
that Barrios Avila was in this country illegally.

At any rate, Barrios Avila made his way to Clearwater working freelance as  an
auto mechanic. He was injured while climbing a tree at a party last June.

The fall left Barrios Avila a quadriplegic, with only partial use of his  arms
and hands. He could push his wheelchair around and feed himself but could  not
dress, shower or use the bathroom on his own.

At first, his needs were met by Bayfront, then by The Laurels nursing home.  Now
his girlfriend, Christina Teofilak of Bradenton, takes care of him. She  met him
while visiting an injured friend at Bayfront last year.

Each day, before she leaves for her job as an X-ray technologist, Teofilak
helps Barrios Avila into a recliner chair, where he remains until her return  at
5:30. He spends the day watching TV and lifting hand weights to develop his
upper body strength.

Teofilak said she sometimes takes her boyfriend to her sister's house in  Tampa,
where he is learning how to operate a home computer. And she takes him
swimming, using a raft to support him.

Barrios Avila no longer wants to kill himself, as he did when he first
discovered he would never walk again, Teofilak said. "He's met a lot of  people
in wheelchairs and found there's a life," she said.

The couple plan to marry soon, they said, but have not set a date. "I've  never
been married before and he's never been married either, so we're going  to make
it something to remember," Teofilak said.

She hopes that after the marriage, she will be able to get health insurance
coverage for Barrios Avila through her company's plan. She said there is a
one-year waiting period.

LOAD-DATE: August 6, 1993

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DISTRIBUTION: TAMPA BAY AND STATE

GRAPHIC: BLACK AND WHITE PHOTO, FRED VICTORIN; Jairo Barrios Avila, paralyzed
since last year, entered the United States at the Texas-Mexican border in 1989.

                            Times Publishing Company


                              81 of 187 DOCUMENTS

                         St. Petersburg Times (Florida)

                     November 1, 1993, Monday, City Edition

Illegal alien, out of work, gets in a messy situation

BYLINE: JUDY GARNATZ

SECTION: LARGO-SEMINOLE TIMES; ACTION; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 795 words



I received a postcard in the mail stating there was a package awaiting me.  When
I called the number given, I was invited to tour the American Buyers
Association premises. Following the tour on June 26, I became a member.

I told the tour guide that I had been unemployed since April and that my
non-immigrant visa had expired, making me an illegal alien. To become employed
I needed a sponsor for permanent residency.

The guide assured me that if I was forced to return to Scotland a full  refund
of my $ 99 deposit would be made.

I never used my membership card because I couldn't afford to buy anything  and
on Aug. 3 I requested a refund.

They said if I produce a copy of a one-way ticket to Scotland, they would
return my money. I have many uses for this money now because I do not qualify
for any financial assistance. I plan to go home the end of October.

If this is a legitimate business, why did they even consider persuading an
unemployed, illegal alien who is also a single parent to become a member?

Lorraine Sinclair

Response: Good question. Here's another one.

Why did an unemployed, illegal alien, single parent commit herself to such  an
obligation?

The retail installment contract you signed gave you three days to cancel  but
makes no mention of a refund in case of unemployment, said Todd  Haliburton,
director of member relations for American Buyers.

The contract states that you must make 18 monthly payments of $ 54.72.  Since
you did not make any payments, your contract was turned over to the  company's
collection department.

However, Haliburton said, he is canceling your contract and relieving you  of
any further financial obligation.

If you produce documentation that you are leaving the country, he will  return
your $ 99 deposit.

Fall proves to be a pain

I'm having some trouble over a fall I took in the Home Depot store in Port
Richey.

I was standing in the main front aisle getting information from a salesman  when
my thigh touched a compressor behind me and I went flying backwards in  the air.
My head hit an iron bar on a table behind the compressor forcing me  to bend
forward and land - kerplunk - on my tailbone.

The store gave me authorization to go to a doctor. I chose a chiropractor.  When
she called Home Depot, they told her they would pay $ 1,000 and then they  would
settle with me. Later she called again and asked if she could take more  X-rays
but they refused that request.

I called and asked for authorization to see an orthopedic doctor to make  sure
my pains were not permanent. No doctor would see me unless I put out the  money
first. But Home Depot's insurance company refused, saying the fall was  my
fault.

I tried to get a lawyer, but to no avail. I'm told that the salesman and
manager who were there when I fell are no longer with that store.

The insurance company sent me a form to sign, which would permit my doctor  to
release my medical report. I will not sign anything but I gave my doctor  the
okay to send it.

I am losing four months of my life going to the doctor and I would like  some
sincere care from the store.

Mary Delaney

Response: The compressor you fell over was large, obvious and on permanent
display, said Keith Rosenblum, Home Depot director of Safety/Claims  Management.
You backed up without looking and tripped over it, which was  unfortunate, he
said.

The store's insurance company authorized $ 1,000 for your emergency medical
care. That was more than ample for your chiropractic physician to adequately
diagnose your injury and provide some degree of treatment, he said, but for
some unknown reasons, that apparently has not happened.

An investigation by the store's insurance company and store management  found
that Home Depot did not act in a negligent manner or cause your injury,
Rosenblum said.

We hope you're feeling better and that your own medical insurance will help
with any doctor bills.

Action solves problems and gets answers for you. If you have a question, or
your own attempts to resolve a consumer complaint have failed, write: Times
Action, P.O. Box 1121, St. Petersburg, FL 33731, or call your Action number,
893-8171, to leave a recorded request for Action.

Requests will be accepted only by mail or on our voice mail system; calls
cannot be returned. We will not be responsible for personal documents, so
please send only photocopies. If your complaint concerns merchandise ordered  by
mail, we need copies of both sides of your canceled check.

We may require additional information or prefer to reply by mail;  therefore,
readers must provide a full mailing address, including ZIP code.  Upon request,
names will not be published.

LOAD-DATE: November 6, 1993

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DISTRIBUTION: LARGO-SEMINOLE TIMES; CLEARWATER TIMES; NORTH PINELLAS TIMES; CITY

 TIMES; COMMUNITY TIMES

TYPE: COLUMN

                            Times Publishing Company


                              82 of 187 DOCUMENTS

                         St. Petersburg Times (Florida)

                    November 16, 1993, Tuesday, City Edition

Iraq orders release of American worker

SOURCE: Compiled from Times Wires

SECTION: NATIONAL; THE WORLD IN BRIEF; Pg. 9A

LENGTH: 415 words

DATELINE: AMMAN, Jordan; OTTAWA; BEIJING



American oil worker Kenneth Beaty, who was sentenced to eight years in prison
for illegally entering Iraq from Kuwait, was freed Monday after serving more
than six months in jail.

An Iraqi statement said President Saddam Hussein had ordered Beaty's  release in
response to a request from Sen. David Boren, D-Okla., and other  Americans.

Beaty, looking healthy but tired, arrived at Marka Civil Airport near  Jordan's
capital, escorted by Boren.

Beaty was arrested April 25 when he strayed across the border after  checking an
oil well in northern Kuwait. On May 3, a Baghdad court sentenced  him to eight
years in prison for trespassing.

Beaty, 45, of Mustang, Okla., was head of exploration for Dallas-based  Santa Fe
Oil Co. His release had been sought on humanitarian grounds because  of heart
problems.

Beaty's release was widely seen as a goodwill gesture by Hussein's regime,
which is striving to have the crippling U.N. sanctions lifted.

Canada opens

Miami consulate

OTTAWA - The Canadian government said Monday it will open a consulate in  Miami
to help the growing number of Canadians who visit Florida, undeterred by
violent crime.

Consular staff will be moved from Atlanta to Miami to turn Canada's  existing
trade office into a full-fledged consulate to provide tourist, police  liaison,
immigration and customs services, a foreign ministry statement said.

An estimated 2.5-million Canadians visit Florida each year, including  hundreds
of thousands of retired couples who flee the north's harsh winter  months.

Travel agents say the number of Canadians traveling to Florida has fallen
slightly, but they blame a weak Canadian dollar more than the recent wave of
violence against tourists.

Three Canadians have been robbed and killed in Florida since October 1992.

11 people dead

in China air crash

 BEIJING - China confirmed that 11 people died when a civilian MD-82  airliner
with 102 people aboard crashed near the western city of Urumqi on  Saturday, but
officials declined to give any details on injuries.

A spokesman for the Xinjiang provincial government said Monday that 10
passengers and one crew member died when the China Northern Airlines plane
pitched into a field just outside Urumqi after a flight from Shenyang via
Beijing.

"We still don't have the exact figure for the number of people injured,"  the
spokesman said.

The accident is the third reported in China this year.

LOAD-DATE: November 19, 1993

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: DIGEST

                            Times Publishing Company


                              83 of 187 DOCUMENTS

                         St. Petersburg Times (Florida)

                     January 24, 1992, Friday, City Edition

Stowaways' try not unusual

BYLINE: BILL ADAIR; VICTOR JUNCO; SUSAN BENESCH

SECTION: TAMPA BAY AND STATE; Pg. 1B

LENGTH: 843 words

DATELINE: TAMPA



The stowaways came to find prosperity and freedom, but they left in handcuffs.

    Eleven men who hid in a cargo ship and waded ashore near Gibsonton were sent
Thursday to a federal detention center in Dade County, where officials will
determine whether they will be deported.

    Although much publicized, the stowaways' attempt is not unusual.  U.S.
Border Patrol officials say the Tampa Bay area is an increasingly popular place
for stowaways and other aliens to try to enter the United States.

    Last week, five people from Turkey who were in a ship docked in Tampa
removed their clothes, covered their bodies with grease and slid through a small
porthole. They dove into the chilly water and were never found.

    On Wednesday, the 11 stowaways came ashore and begged residents for food,
water and clothes. They were caught by Hillsborough sheriff's deputies and
turned over to the Border Patrol.

    "We deal with this all the time," said Maj. Larry G. Arthurs, who heads the
patrol's Tampa office. "These crewmen and stowaways are our version of an
illegal border entry."

    In just four months, the six agents who patrol Hillsborough and 11 other
counties in west-central Florida have caught 368 people from 25 countries.
That's up 60 percent from the same period last year.  There are countless others
who aren't caught.

    Of the 368 people, 58 were stowaways or crew members caught as they tried to
enter the United States from ships. The other 310 were picked up by the Border
Patrol after they were caught committing crimes or after agents received tips
about them. Co-workers or disgruntled spouses often report aliens, Arthurs said.



 He attributes the increase to tougher enforcement of immigration laws and a
steady stream of people who want to find prosperity here.

    As one stowaway was being led to a Border Patrol van on Thursday, he said,
"We have been oppressed long enough in our country. There is nothing there."

    Another said, "We want freedom."

    They were caught Wednesday after they jumped from the Asian Erie, a cargo
ship that had come from the Dominican Republic. Six of the 11 continued to say
Thursday they are from Cuba. Four said they are Dominican and one said he is
from Haiti.

    "Everybody will claim to be from Haiti or Cuba because they think they will
get better treatment from the U.S. government," Arthurs said. "One of them tried
to say he got on a raft in Cuba and floated right into Tampa Bay."

    Arthurs said 10 of them probably were from the Dominican Republic and one
was from Haiti. The stowaways will be interviewed today at the Krome Detention
Center outside Miami, where officials will try to determine their nationality.

    "We'll be able to track that caper pretty quickly," said Carol Chasse,
deputy director of the Immigration and Naturalization Service in Miami. "We have
employees from the Dominican Republic and Cuba, and it will be easy for them to
tell if (the stowaways) are from that country."

    Their fate will depend largely on what nation they are from.

    Cubans almost automatically are granted work permits and permanent residence
under a federal law. Dominicans usually are not given asylum because they are
not considered political refugees.

    The same is true of Haitians. The U.S. government has granted political
asylum to only a tiny percentage of the Haitians who have fled as boat people in
recent years, maintaining that they left their country for economic reasons.
About 7,000 Haitian boat people are being held at the U.S. Navy base in
Guantanamo Bay, Cuba, awaiting a U.S. court decision on their fate.

    Two-thirds of the people caught by the Tampa Border Patrol office came from
Mexico, which probably reflects the large number of Mexican migrant workers in
the area. Refugees from the Dominican Republic, Haiti and Cuba account for only
4 percent of the cases here.

    Arthurs said Thursday that the 11 stowaways probably will be sent back to
their home countries. The owner of the Asian Erie is required to pay all
expenses.

    "This is one the taxpayer doesn't have to pay for," he said.

    The Asian Erie, which was being loaded with fertilizer in Tampa on Thursday
evening, is headed for Los Angeles and Japan, Arthurs said. So if the stowaways
are sent back to the Dominican Republic, they'll have to go by plane or another
ship. Often, stowaways are sent home on the same ship in which they arrived.

    Allen von Spiegelfeld, an attorney representing the owner of the Asian Erie,
said it is common for stowaways to try to sneak into the United States through
Tampa.

    "It's virtually impossible for a crew to keep stowaways off a ship," he
said. "You have longshoremen coming and going, and (the crew) can't tell which
are which. The ship is a big place."

 Times staff photographer Victor Junco and staff writer Susan Benesch
contributed to this report.

LOAD-DATE: November 4, 1992

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DISTRIBUTION: TAMPA BAY AND STATE

GRAPHIC: COLOR PHOTO, Victor Junco; BLACK AND WHITE PHOTO; Some of the stowaways
are escorted as they begin their trip Thursday to a detention center near Miami;
Border Patrol Officer Larry G. Arthurs

                            Times Publishing Company


                              84 of 187 DOCUMENTS

                         St. Petersburg Times (Florida)

                    September 6, 1992, Sunday, City Edition

Stowaways detained on ship

BYLINE: KAREN F. BROWN

SECTION: TAMPA BAY AND STATE; Pg. 3B

LENGTH: 145 words

DATELINE: TAMPA



U.S. Border Patrol officers worked this morning to return to Colombia six
stowaways who have been detained aboard a ship in Tampa Bay since Thursday.

The men sought medical treatment Saturday, claiming they were dehydrated.

Joyce Williams, emergency room nursing supervisor at Tampa General  Hospital,
said the men were in fair condition late Saturday night, and she  expected them
to be released.

Maj. Larry Arthur of the Border Patrol in Tampa said the eight men hid in a
store room of the M/V Bakri Pan Am, a small tanker.

About midway into the four-day trip the stowaways came on deck with the
23-member crew.

He said the men were apparently unarmed. Border patrol officers began  tailing
the tanker before it reached the Skyway bridge. Four men jumped ship  at
Hooker's Point. Two of them were captured; two escaped.  - KAREN F. BROWN

LOAD-DATE: October 13, 1992

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DISTRIBUTION: TAMPA BAY AND STATE

                            Times Publishing Company


                              85 of 187 DOCUMENTS

                         St. Petersburg Times (Florida)

                       June 4, 1990, Monday, City Edition

Israel: Soviet Jews can decide where to live u

vn .  "@

SOURCE: nyt;New York Times; apAssociated Press @

BYLINE: YOUSSEF M. IBRAHIM F@.

SECTION: ANATIONAL; THE SUMMIT DAY FOUR @; Pg. 9A

LENGTH: 550 words

DATELINE: JERUSALEM "@



Israel has reiterated that it has no plans to settle Soviet Jewish
 immigrants in the Israeli-occupied West Bank and Gaza Strip.

 K    The Israeli statement was issued Sunday night by Avi Pazner, a
 senior adviser to Prime Minister Yitzhak Shamir. It came in response to an
apparent threat by Soviet President Mikhail
 Gorbachev to stop the flow of Soviet Jews to Israel unless the Soviet
 Union was assured they will not be settled in the occupied $ territories.

 E    Discussing Israeli immigration at a news conference with President Bush in
Washington on Sunday, Gorbachev said:

 Q    "We are facing the following situation: Either after these meetings
 and exchanges with the president of the United States of America
6 on this particular issue, our concern will be heeded in Israel and
 they will make certain conclusions, or else we must give further
 thought to it in terms of what we can do with issuing permits for
 exit."

 N    Pazner said: "We will make clear to Gorbachev our policy that we
a are not sending, not encouraging, and not giving incentives to Soviet Jews to
settle in the areas of Judea, Samaria, and Gaza." Judea and
% Samaria are the biblical names for the West Bank.

 M    All Jews immigrating to Israel are given help in resettling, and
 those who choose to settle in the occupied territories are given extra
incentives by the government.

 M    "The Jews arriving here have complete freedom of choice and can
?  choose where to live, and it is a fact that very few, until now, have
 chosen to live in these areas," Pazner said in an interview.


, P    Another Israeli official, who asked not to be identified, dismissed
B the Soviet threat as a bluff, saying that the Soviet Union would face
 severe economic penalties from the United States and Western
 European nations if it acted to slow the flow of Soviet Jewish ( emigration to
Israel, which is at an all-time high.

 P    About 150,000 Soviet Jews are expected to move to Israel this year.
( Israeli officials say only about 200 new arrivals have settled in the
, occupied lands.

 J    "I think the comments were meant for Arab consumption," the
 official said. He added that the Soviets, who are seeking financial
T and economic cooperation in the West, are "too vulnerable on this
.  issue to act on it."

 G    At their summit meeting in Baghdad last week, Arab nations
 asserted that the flow of tens of thousands of Soviet Jews to Israel
 threatened the peace process in the region by diminishing the
 chances of negotiating an independent Palestinian state in the
 occupied territories.

 F  Soviet refuseniks reacted angrily to Gorbachev's warning.

 Q  "It is a human right to be able to emigrate," said Leonid Stonov, a
 spokesman for refuseniks Jews who have been refused permission to leave the
Soviet Union.

 L    "It is one question to allow someone to leave the country, and O@Equite
another to decide where that person will be allowed to live."

J 9@/ Information from AP was used in this report.
 "@

LOAD-DATE: November 13, 1992

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: ;

                            Times Publishing Company


                              86 of 187 DOCUMENTS

                         St. Petersburg Times (Florida)

                      June 18, 1990, Monday, City Edition

Pair charged with selling fake papers

BYLINE: MARLENE SOKOL

SECTION: BRANDON TIMES; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 361 words

DATELINE: RUSKIN



Hillsborough County Sheriff's deputies have charged a Palmetto couple with
peddling phony immigration papers to two Mexican farm workers.

    Sheriff's deputies arrested Cesar Vega, 24, and Blanca Granados, 26, late
Saturday, and charged them with grand theft and uttering forged instruments. The
couple were in Hillsborough County Jail on Sunday, each in lieu of $ 2,000 bail.


    Deputies said this was not an isolated incident and an investigation
continues.

    "We've had victims of similar scams in the past" in east Hillsborough
County, said Lt. B. Hoffman.

    The arrest happened at 9:45 p.m. at a mobile home park at 111 21st St. SE in
Ruskin, where the couple sold fake papers to farm workers Antonio Sandoval and
Ernesto Copto, deputies said.

    Sandoval, 20, and Copto, 24, said they met Vega and Granados last Wednesday
in Ocala. Speaking in Spanish, the two farm workers said they have lived in the
United States less than a year.

    The couple, they said, offered to arrange temporary immigration papers that
would enable them to work legally while they applied for immigrant work permits
known as green cards.

    The farm workers, who said they generally earn $ 150 a week harvesting and
selling tomatoes, were interested. The fee: $ 250 apiece.

    Sandoval said he borrowed $ 250 from his brother in Ruskin. Copto wrote a $
90 check as part payment. Vega, they said, told them he knew someone who worked
for the U.S. Immigration and Naturalization Service in Texas and she would
process their applications.

    "Everything was always rushed," Copto said.

    Later Wednesday, the workers said they showed their newly purchased papers
to a neighbor, who recognized them as phony and called the Sheriff's Office.

    The neighbor then asked the workers to call Vega back and tell him they had
more friends interested in buying work permits.

    The workers said they made the call Thursday and lured the couple to the
mobile home park Saturday. The neighbor then summoned sheriff's deputies, they
said.

LOAD-DATE: November 13, 1992

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DISTRIBUTION: BRANDON TIMES; TAMPA

                            Times Publishing Company


                              87 of 187 DOCUMENTS

                         St. Petersburg Times (Florida)

                     July 11, 1990, Wednesday, City Edition

Can America rise above its old Cold War habits?

BYLINE: ANTHONY LEWIS

SECTION: EDITORIAL; COLUMNS; Pg. 14A

LENGTH: 655 words



"The walls that once confined people and ideas are collapsing." With those words
the leaders of the Western alliance celebrated the end of the Cold War. They
pledged their efforts to "overcome the legacy of decades of suspicion."

    NATO's London declaration responded to the new realities in Europe in terms
more forthright and more eloquent than the usual official prose.

    Can the United States be as forthright in facing the end of the Cold War in
its own attitudes? The question is a profound one. In numberless ways American
law and policy are built on fear of communism. As communist ideology
disintegrates, we too are challenged to "overcome the legacy of decades of
suspicion."

    An example is the ideological test imposed on foreigners who wish to visit
the United States. Since 1952 American law has barred aliens who are Communists,
anarchists or supporters of radical doctrine. Eminent authors and others have
been excluded on suspicion of being in that category, to the repeated
embarrassment of the United States.

    The State Department and the Immigration and Naturalization Service keep a
list of suspected characters who may try to enter. It is called the National
Automated Immigration Lookout System, or NAILS.

    The astonishing dimensions of NAILS were uncovered last month in a Freedom
of Information Act suit by the Lawyers Committee for Human Rights. Since 1980,
238,140 listings have been put into the system, most of them in the category of
ideological exclusions.  There are some duplications, but it seems that more
than 200,00 people were designated as ideologically unfit to enter the United
States in the last 10 years. In the first three months of this year alone, the
State Department added 4,390 new entries reflecting denial of visas on
ideological grounds.

    Even as the perceived communist threat in the world faded, the ideological
guardians were evidently intensifying their efforts. In February Congress passed
and President Bush signed a law providing that no one may be denied a visitor's
visa because of beliefs or associations that would be protected here by the
Constitution. But suspect aliens are still being excluded, then required to seek
a waiver. A first step in recognizing the end of the Cold War should be to stop
that humiliating process and take no  account of visitors' ideas.

    Americans also face restrictions on their travel abroad. Executive orders
forbid most travel to Cuba, Vietnam, North Korea, Cambodia and Iran. Warning
travelers about their safety is fair enough. But it is long past time to stop
limiting Americans' right to travel for ideological reasons.

    The Cold War has badly compromised the American constitutional premise that
government is accountable to the people. Vast areas of government activity are
now cloaked, for asserted reasons of national security, in a secrecy that
prevents effective discussion of policy.

    Worse yet, there has been increasing pressure since the start of the Reagan
administration for officials to sign lifetime secrecy agreements that forever
hobble their ability to blow the whistle on waste and bad policy.

    All those areas cry out for a re-examination of Cold War premises.
President Bush would do well to ask for advice from a special committee of his
administration or a commission. The kind of hard look that is needed is not
likely to come from administrators who are used to the existing system and to
the protection that secrecy gives them.

    American ideals of freedom and openness had a good deal to do with inspiring
the revolution in Eastern Europe. They are in the minds of the true democrats in
the Soviet Union. And we should be renewing our commitment to them as the Cold
War ends.
 New York Times News Service

LOAD-DATE: November 13, 1992

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: COLUMN

                            Times Publishing Company


                              88 of 187 DOCUMENTS

                         St. Petersburg Times (Florida)

                                 July 11, 1990

BYLINE: ANTHONY LEWIS

LENGTH: 656 words



 "The walls that once confined people and ideas are collapsing." With those
words the leaders of the Western alliance celebrated the end of the Cold War.
They pledged their efforts to "overcome the legacy of decades of suspicion."

    NATO's London declaration responded to the new realities in Europe in terms
more forthright and more eloquent than the usual official prose.

    Can the United States be as forthright in facing the end of the Cold War in
its own attitudes? The question is a profound one. In numberless ways American
law and policy are built on fear of communism. As communist ideology
disintegrates, we too are challenged to "overcome the legacy of decades of
suspicion."

    An example is the ideological test imposed on foreigners who wish to visit
the United States. Since 1952 American law has barred aliens who are Communists,
anarchists or supporters of radical doctrine. Eminent authors and others have
been excluded on suspicion of being in that category, to the repeated
embarrassment of the United States.

    The State Department and the Immigration and Naturalization Service keep a
list of suspected characters who may try to enter. It is called the National
Automated Immigration Lookout System, or NAILS.

    The astonishing dimensions of NAILS were uncovered last month in a Freedom
of Information Act suit by the Lawyers Committee for Human Rights. Since 1980,
238,140 listings have been put into the system, most of them in the category of
ideological exclusions.  There are some duplications, but it seems that more
than 200,00 people were designated as ideologically unfit to enter the United
States in the last 10 years. In the first three months of this year alone, the
State Department added 4,390 new entries reflecting denial of visas on
ideological grounds.

    Even as the perceived communist threat in the world faded, the ideological
guardians were evidently intensifying their efforts. In February Congress passed
and President Bush signed a law providing that no one may be denied a visitor's
visa because of beliefs or associations that would be protected here by the
Constitution. But suspect aliens are still being excluded, then required to seek
a waiver. A first step in recognizing the end of the Cold War should be to stop
that humiliating process and take no  account of visitors' ideas.

    Americans also face restrictions on their travel abroad. Executive orders
forbid most travel to Cuba, Vietnam, North Korea, Cambodia and Iran. Warning
travelers about their safety is fair enough. But it is long past time to stop
limiting Americans' right to travel for ideological reasons.

    The Cold War has badly compromised the American constitutional premise that
government is accountable to the people. Vast areas of government activity are
now cloaked, for asserted reasons of national security, in a secrecy that
prevents effective discussion of policy.

    Worse yet, there has been increasing pressure since the start of the Reagan
administration for officials to sign lifetime secrecy agreements that forever
hobble their ability to blow the whistle on waste and bad policy.

    All those areas cry out for a re-examination of Cold War premises.
President Bush would do well to ask for advice from a special committee of his
administration or a commission. The kind of hard look that is needed is not
likely to come from administrators who are used to the existing system and to
the protection that secrecy gives them.

    American ideals of freedom and openness had a good deal to do with inspiring
the revolution in Eastern Europe. They are in the minds of the true democrats in
the Soviet Union. And we should be renewing our commitment to them as the Cold
War ends.
 New York Times News Service

LOAD-DATE: November 8, 1992

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                            Times Publishing Company


                              89 of 187 DOCUMENTS

                         St. Petersburg Times (Florida)

                     July 18, 1990, Wednesday, City Edition

Israel court deals blow to Sharon plan

SECTION: NATIONAL; WORLD DIGEST; Pg. 14A

LENGTH: 538 words

DATELINE: JERUSALEM; LUSAKA, Zambia; PRAGUE, Czechoslovakia; CARACAS, Venezuela;
WASHINGTON; BEIRUT, Lebanon; ROME; KINSHASA, Zaire



An Israeli Cabinet minister and the Supreme Court have both dealt blows to
Housing Minister Ariel Sharon's emergency program to provide housing for the
huge influx of Soviet Jewish immigrants.  The court on Tuesday invalidated the
special powers the Cabinet granted Sharon two weeks ago so that he could
override the bureaucratic hurdles that delay the start of most housing
construction as long as a year. Later in the day, Tourism Minister Gideon Patt,
like Sharon a member of the Likud bloc, said his office would not cooperate with
Sharon and other immigration officials who want to alleviate the housing crisis
by temporarily lodging thousands of immigrants in low-occupancy hotels and guest
houses.
 Freed nurse denies
 journalist was spy
 LUSAKA, Zambia A British nurse jailed by Iraq for helping a journalist who
later was executed for spying said Tuesday neither she nor the reporter did
anything she considered illegal. Daphne Parish, 53, acknowledged that she drove
Farzad Bazoft, a reporter for the British newspaper The Observer, to the site of
an explosion near an Iraqi military installation but saw no wrong in their
action.  "It didn't appear improper at the time. We didn't do anything I
considered illegal," she said in the Zambian capital. Parish was released Monday
after an appeal from Zambian President Kenneth Kaunda.
 Elsewhere . . .
 PRAGUE, Czechoslovakia The Czechoslovak government announced a 50 percent
increase in gasoline prices, to take effect at midnight tonight.
 CARACAS, Venezuela The American founder of Venezuela's English-language Daily
Journal, Jules Waldman, 74, was fighting for his life after thieves broke into
his home, bound and gagged him and stole his valuables.
 WASHINGTON Some 162 members of Congress expressed support for Iran's opposition
movement, criticizing what they called Tehran's "medieval dictatorship." Rep.
Mervyn M. Dymally, D-Calif., initiated the letter to Massoud Rajavi, leader of
the Iraq-based People's Mujahedin of Iran. They offered condolences to Rajavi
over the April killing of his brother Kazem Rajavi by an Iranian hit squad in
Switzerland.
 BEIRUT, Lebanon Palestine Liberation Organization guerrillas moved in to block
an offensive by the pro-Iran Hezbollah on the rival Amal movement in southern
Lebanon. Police said 52 people have died in the battle and 167 wounded.
 JERUSALEM An off-target 155mm artillery shell landed near reserve soldiers
during a training exercise, killing five of them and wounding 10, the army
command said.
 ROME The United States pledged $ 3-million to help Libya fight a deadly fly
infestation that is a potential threat to wildlife and livestock in much of
Africa. The United States led other nations in committing money to halting the
spread of the screw-worm fly, but the fund-raising effort fell far short of the
money needed to carry out the eradication, U.N. officials said.
 KINSHASA, Zaire Zaire's one-party parliament approved the creation of a limited
multiparty system. The law, proposed by President Mobutu Sese Seko, allows three
legally recognized political parties in the central African country.


LOAD-DATE: November 13, 1992

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: DIGEST

                            Times Publishing Company


                              90 of 187 DOCUMENTS

                         St. Petersburg Times (Florida)

                     July 28, 1990, Saturday, City Edition

Miami fears influx of Cuban refugees

BYLINE: BRIAN MURPHY

SECTION: TAMPA BAY AND STATE; Pg. 7B

LENGTH: 425 words

DATELINE: MIAMI



With memories of the chaotic Mariel boatlift still fresh, South Florida
officials Friday responded to the distant prospect of a Cuban refugee influx by
calling on the federal government for cooperation.

    "We cannot tolerate another Mariel. There is no way the community can absorb
it," said Dade County Manager Joaquin Avino, referring to the flotillas that
carried more than 120,000 Cubans to Florida during a five-month period in 1980.


    The reaction came in response to statements Thursday from Cuban President
Fidel Castro, who suggested he would allow an exodus from the island if visas
are granted by the United States or European nations.

    If refugees are forthcoming, Miami area leaders say they would need help in
resettling refugees and seek federal controls on the numbers of visas to avoid a
repeat of the frenzy after Castro opened the northern Cuban port city of Mariel.


    A ragtag armada of Cuban-Americans sailed across the Florida Straits
believing they were picking up relatives, friends and political prisoners. Cuban
officials required the boat owners to return to the United States with convicted
criminals and vagrants.

    The unexpected volume of immigrants forced officials to erect a temporary
tent city under a highway in Miami and several resettlement camps across the
South. An estimated 2,600 "Marielitos" are still in federal custody and 173 were
returned to Cuba, according to federal immigration records.

    "One can hardly oppose the free emigration from Cuba of people who are
seeking freedom," said Miami Mayor Xavier Suarez, who was born in Cuba. "We need
the usual safeguards and guarantees so we wouldn't get people from jails."

    In a speech on the 37th anniversary of the beginning of Castro's
revolutionary movement, the president invited the United States and other
nations to issue entrance visa and send boats to pick up refugees.

    In was unclear, however, whether Castro was suggesting another Mariel-type
situation.

    U.S. Immigration and Naturalization Service spokesman Verne Jervis said the
agency has a contingency plan for a Mariel-type refugee surge, but details have
not been made public.

    Coast Guard spokesman Alastair Worden said there were no reports Friday of
Cuban-Americans launching vessels to the island.

    So far this year, 216 Cuban refugees have been found this year in boats
floating toward Florida, Worden said.

LOAD-DATE: November 13, 1992

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DISTRIBUTION: TAMPA BAY AND STATE

                            Times Publishing Company


                              91 of 187 DOCUMENTS

                         St. Petersburg Times (Florida)

                    August 30, 1990, Thursday, City Edition

Travelers are too often stuck in customs, air officials say

SOURCE: Compiled from Staff and Wire Reports

SECTION: NATIONAL; Pg. 1A

LENGTH: 780 words

DATELINE: WASHINGTON



It takes much too long to pass through customs at many of the nation's airports,
travel officials said Wednesday.

    The officials say more immigration inspectors are needed. To pay for them,
the industry wants Congress to broaden an existing $ 5 user fee to include
anyone traveling from Mexico, Canada and the Caribbean.

    Right now, all people flying into the United States, including Americans,
pay a $ 5 inspections fee unless the flight is from Canada, Mexico or the
Caribbean. Overturning the exemption would generate about $ 80-million to be
used for hiring additional immigration inspection officers.

    "This summer, airline passengers have routinely waited more than two hours
to clear customs and immigration at 15 major international gateways across the
United States," said Robert Aaronson, president of the Air Transport
Association. "We think it is disgraceful that it takes the government that much
time to process incoming airline passengers."

    The officials want Congress to legislate that immigration inspections take
no more than 45 minutes. Other steps would include reducing paperwork and
expanding the pre-inspection procedures whereby some customs agents work at
foreign airports.

    During a news conference, Aaronson and other executives representing airport
operators and international carriers said they had no data to support their
claims of long waits at most of the nation's major international air terminals.

    They did, however, cite a long list of anecdotal horror stories about
foreign tourists, already exhausted from long flights, being forced to sit
another hour on the plane because there was no room at the customs area, which
was backlogged for hours.

    For example, Aaronson said, last Sunday at Los Angeles International
Airport, 250 passengers arriving on a Swissair DC-10 were stalled at the airport
gate for five hours because immigration checkpoints couldn't handle the crowd.

    "That's some welcome mat for the millions of tourists who visit our country
each year," he said.

    Duke Austin, an immigration spokesman, recognizes that long lines are a
problem.

    "We've done a lot," he said. "We went from a staff of 557 in 1986 to 1,475
today." With the estimated $ 80-million in revenues that would be generated by
charging passengers from North American and Caribbean countries, he said, the
immigration service could hire about 450 more inspectors.

    Compared with some of the nation's most congested airports, Tampa
International Airport has fared relatively well, thanks partially to the clout
wielded by U.S. Rep. Sam Gibbons, D-Tampa, a senior member of Congress'
tax-writing Ways and Means Committee, said James Gordon, director of
international affairs for the Airport Operators Council International.

    "Things are not bad in Tampa, but the airport has had to use its
congressional influence to secure additional inspection-service staffing,"
Gordon said from Washington.

    The airport's 402,893 international arrivals for the 12 months ending June
30 were up 25 percent from a year earlier, he said, but both immigration and
customs typically have enough personnel to staff the inspections desks.

    As a result, he said, it normally takes no more than 45 minutes to one hour
to clear inspections at Tampa International even during the peak winter travel
months.

    Aaronson, the air transport president, said travel by foreign tourists is
the fastest-growing segment of the air travel industry and generated $ 1-billion
more than the amount Americans spent abroad. "How long do you think that surplus
will last with five-hour delays?"

    Airport immigration operations blamed for the worst delays this summer
included those at Boston Logan, Chicago O'Hare, Cincinnati, Denver Stapleton,
Detroit Metropolitan, Honolulu, Houston Intercontinental, Los Angeles
International, Miami International, Newark International, New York J.F.K, San
Francisco, San Jose and San Juan, Puerto Rico.

    Why were flights from Canada, Mexico and the Caribbean exempted from the $ 5
charge in the first place? It was originally a trade incentive for U.S.
neighbors, said Gordon, the airport group's official.

    But, he added, any advantages it brought have now been more than outweighed
by the long lines and hot tempers generated by the long airport waits.
 Information from Times staff writer David K. Rogers, the Los Angeles Times and
the Associated Press was used in this report.

LOAD-DATE: November 10, 1992

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                            Times Publishing Company


                              92 of 187 DOCUMENTS

                         St. Petersburg Times (Florida)

                    September 10, 1990, Monday, City Edition

Ellis Island's Great Hall is reopened as immigration museum

SOURCE: Los Angeles Times; Associated Press

SECTION: NATIONAL; Pg. 3A

LENGTH: 557 words

DATELINE: NEW YORK



At joyful, dignified ceremonies, the "Golden Door" through which 12-million
immigrants entered the United States was reopened on Ellis Island Sunday.

    Trumpets sounded, a military band played, 49 new Americans were sworn in,
guests sipped champagne and Vice President Dan Quayle cut a broad white ribbon
opening the island's restored Great Hall, now an immigration museum.

    "They taught us to give the very best of ourselves to ensure that our
freedom endures forever," Quayle said.

    "There are thousands of different names, thousands of different stories, but
you stitch all of them together and you have one huge saga, and it's our saga,"
said Chrysler chairman Lee Iacocca, who spearheaded the campaign that raised $
156-million to restore the 90-year-old immigration station.

    About 1,500 guests gathered outside the huge, four-towered brick building
that reopens to the public today as a museum. The restoration project, the most
expensive of its kind in American history, was entirely financed by private
contributions to the Statue of Liberty-Ellis Island Foundation.

    The new citizens were sworn in by Supreme Court Justice Antonin Scalia.

    And six citizens who passed through Ellis Island were honored as symbols of
the millions who teemed ashore.

    They included Clara Larsen, 92, who emigrated from Russia in 1911. A
white-haired woman who now moves about with the aid of a walker, she traveled
alone as a teen-ager to the United States and later became a founding member of
the International Ladies Garment Workers Union in New York.

    Also on stage was Johanna Flaherty, 84, who was 16 when she left Ireland.
She came to America, she said in an oral history preserved at the immigration
museum, because she "didn't want to wake up and stare a cow in the face every
morning."

    From 1892 to 1954, when the Ellis Island Immigration Station finally closed,
some 12-million immigrants with an estimated 140-million descendants passed
through its portals.

    In 1907, Ellis Island's peak year, more than 1-million immigrants were
processed 12,000 of them on April 17 of that year, the busiest day ever. Most of
the newcomers spent from three to five hours on the island. Part of the ritual
included medical examinations to find the unhealthy.

    Iacocca dedicated the American Immigrant Wall of Honor, which bears the
names of about 2,000 immigrants whose descendants donated $ 100 or more to the
renovation effort. The names are inscribed on a long copper strip on the
island's sea wall, about 400 yards from the Statue of Liberty.

    One of the names was that of Antonio Macchiarola, 80, of Johnston, R.I., who
arrived at age 11.

    In retrospect, Macchiarola said, it all seems "like a pilgrimage. . . . I
was just a little bit of a kid, and I had to go through these lines to be
examined. Everybody was afraid they wouldn't make it."

    Macchiarola did, like 98 percent of those who landed at Ellis. But for those
who were turned back including a little girl who traveled with his family and
was rejected because of eye disease Ellis was called the Isle of Tears.
 Information from the AP was used in this report.

LOAD-DATE: November 10, 1992

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                            Times Publishing Company


                              93 of 187 DOCUMENTS

                         St. Petersburg Times (Florida)

                  September 12, 1990, Wednesday, City Edition

Immigrants must not let racism crush their hopes

BYLINE: ROGER E. HERNANDEZ

SECTION: BRANDON TIMES; COLUMN; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 759 words



This week's opening of the Ellis Island Museum is a reminder, as the New York
Times put it, that immigration is "the definitive American experience." If we go
back far enough in our family trees all of us, even Native Americans, will find
an ancestor who literally took the decisive first step onto a new world. So
whether our forefathers trekked through an ancient land bridge that now is the
Bering Strait, sailed an ocean or waded across the Rio Grande, the fact is we
are all either immigrants or children of immigrants.

    People sometimes forget this. Old immigrants don't always welcome the new
ones.

    There is a 19th-century political cartoon, drawn by Thomas Nast during the
height of the exodus from Europe, in which men wearing bishop's miters shaped
like the menacing mouths of crocodiles crawled out of the sea and onto American
shores. It was an attack on the millions of Catholics Italians, Polish, Irish
who were coming to the United States.

    The cartoon expressed the fears of those whose forefathers arrived from
England in colonial times. They believed that foreign Catholics were going to
destroy the American way of life. The "papists" would mortgage America's liberty
and independence to "the dictator in Rome," thought the nativists.

    Fear of Catholics was just one expression of paranoia. Americans were aghast
at the poverty and crime that existed in the slums where most immigrants lived.
Gangs of Italian or Irish hoodlums terrorized decent citizens. Children dropped
out of school and millions of adults could not even speak English. The
immigration policy of those years loomed like a disaster.

    The original English immigrants, now Americans through and through, only saw
the new immigrants as a foreign threat. They had forgotten their own families
too were once newcomers struggling to make it.

    Indeed, those 19th-century immigrants who frightened so many people changed
America forever. But not in a negative way. They shaped a new identity for the
United States. Today Catholics are this country's largest denomination. Yet
freedom survives. And the descendants of those ghettoized immigrants, whether
Catholic, Jewish or Protestant, are making enormous contributions in every
conceivable field.

    They are now the old immigrants. But once again, they have forgotten who
their ancestors were.

    In the 1960s a landmark event took place: It was the first decade in which
more people immigrated from Latin America than from Europe. Few people noticed.
Hispanics were simply not part of the national consciousness then.

    But the number of Hispanic newcomers has grown every year since, so much so
that now nobody fails to notice the new immigrants. The Hispanic population is
growing five times faster than the population at large and some descendants of
the 19th-century immigrants, who by now consider themselves as American as the
nativists who rejected their grandparents, are wondering what all these
foreigners are going to do to "their" country.

    Fears that the European immigrants were going to tear apart the United
States seem silly today. Will the fear of Hispanics also appear ridiculous 100
years from now?

       The 19th-century immigrants fought prejudice and faced the difficulties
everyone in a new land must confront. But they did not allow these problems to
blind them to opportunities to climb up the socioeconomic ladder.

    The new immigrants from Latin America must do the same.  Hispanics cannot
let the future of their children be decided by bigots. This doesn't only mean
that Hispanics, as a group, must work to end racism. It also means that
Hispanics, as individuals, must not permit themselves to believe racism is so
powerful it can crush hopes for a better life.

    Look into the soul of the United States and you will find an immigrant. Yet
new immigrants are not always welcome. The latest chapter of this classic
American epic is unfolding before our eyes, and it is no surprise that history
is repeating itself. In the final analysis, newcomers can rely on no one but
themselves.
 Roger E. Hernandez is an adjunct member of the journalism faculty at Fairleigh
Dickinson University and Bloomfield College in New Jersey. Born in Cuba, he came
to the United States in 1965 when his parents were exiled by Fidel Castro.
 1990 King Features Syndicate Inc.

LOAD-DATE: November 10, 1992

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DISTRIBUTION: BRANDON TIMES; TAMPA

TYPE: COLUMN

                            Times Publishing Company


                              94 of 187 DOCUMENTS

                         St. Petersburg Times (Florida)

                     October 1, 1990, Monday, City Edition

Immigrant crushed to death on escalator

SECTION: TAMPA BAY AND STATE; TIMES DIGEST; Pg. 1B

LENGTH: 230 words

DATELINE: MIAMI



An elderly Cuban immigrant taking her first steps in the United States was
crushed to death Sunday in an escalator accident at Miami International Airport,
police said. At least five other passengers were injured. Bertola Agrispina
Acosta-Bereda, 75, was killed under the weight of other passengers as they fell
on an escalator to the U.S. Customs Service and immigration offices, said police
officer Ralph Fernandez. "As they came up the escalator, someone fell, causing
other people to fall. It was a domino effect," he said. It was not immediately
clear whether the escalator malfunctioned or whether the immigrants'
unfamiliarity with the machinery prompted the fall, police said. "It's possible
they've never seen an escalator before," Fernandez said. Airport spokeswoman
Amalia Fernandez said the six arrived on an Eastern Airlines flight, a weekly
charter from Havana bringing Cuban immigrants to the United States and exiles
home from visits to the island. At least five people, including the dead woman's
husband, were taken to Jackson Memorial Hospital, said Fernandez, who declined
to release the husband's name. Sam Cratis, duty administrator at the hospital,
said all were in stable condition, but he refused to describe their injuries.
Fernandez said Ms.  Acosta-Bereda and her husband were moving to Miami.

LOAD-DATE: November 10, 1992

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DISTRIBUTION: TAMPA BAY AND STATE

TYPE: DIGEST

                            Times Publishing Company


                              95 of 187 DOCUMENTS

                         St. Petersburg Times (Florida)

                     October 21, 1990, Sunday, City Edition

Immigration is changing the nation's face

SOURCE: The Economist Newspaper Limited

SECTION: PERSPECTIVE; Pg. 8D

LENGTH: 1315 words



This article was written for The Economist magazine.
 Economic expansion may have transformed the physical face of California, but by
far the greatest social and economic changes in the past 10 years have been
wrought by foreign immigration.

    The signs are everywhere. The port city of Long Beach, once known as "Iowa
by the sea," is now home to 40,000 Cambodians.  Daly City outside San Francisco,
once a mostly white, blue-collar town, is now called "Little Manila" because of
its large Filipino population. Fresno, a farming town in the Central Valley, has
become home to 30,000 Hmong, a Laotian hill tribe.

 :    A stretch of shops and malls between Garden Grove and Westminster in
Orange County conjures up a vision of what Saigon might look like, if it were
lucky enough to enjoy American-style affluence. Some 80,000 Vietnamese refugees
live in the area and thousands more visit it on weekends to shop and socialize.

    Los Angeles's Hispanic barrio, the destination of a flood of new Latin
American immigrants (both legal and illegal), has spread far beyond its
traditional core in the east side of the city out to a string of suburban towns.


    Asians and Hispanics helped to build California, even if they got little of
the credit. But the speed with which the racial makeup of California's
population is changing is probably unprecedented anywhere else in peacetime. Of
the nearly 6-million people added to California's population in the 1980s, an
estimated 40 percent came from abroad, according to the Center for Continuing
Study of the California Economy, a private think tank.

    Immigration and the higher birthrate among ethnic minorities have meant that
75 percent of the population growth has been accounted for by Hispanics, Asians
and blacks. Minorities made up 33 percent of the state's population in 1980.
This year that figure is 40 percent, and soon after 2000 whites themselves will
be in a minority or so the Center predicts.

    Such an influx of newcomers has touched almost every aspect of life. Though
racial discrimination exists, modern Californians are admirably tolerant of each
other. Few other societies could have absorbed so many different types of people
so rapidly without violent conflict. Instead, Californians are proud of their
cultural diversity.

    Able to draw on the talents and energies of a huge pool of people, the
economy has boomed. Silicon Valley boasts some 400 electronics companies owned
by Asian-Americans. Many Chinese from Hong Kong and Taiwan arrive with plenty of
money. Japanese firms have invested over $ 8-billion in California, about a
quarter of total Japanese investment in America, and employ 68,000 workers.
Koreans have become shopkeepers everywhere. Mexicans and other Latin Americans
have filled millions of low-wage jobs.

    And yet California's experience is challenging the conventional American
ideal of assimilation. The melting pot took generations to work even among
racially similar European immigrants. Among the array of skin colors and racial
characteristics in California's population, it may never work. And though the
state's Asians and Hispanics have readily embraced American ways, they also want
to change them to reflect their own histories and values.

    In addition, divisions exist between new immigrants and the second, third
and fourth generations, who often share no more than surnames and appearance.
Even within immigrant groups, the differences can be significant. Though lumped
together as "Asians," Japanese, Chinese, Koreans, Filipinos, Vietnamese,
Cambodians and Laotian hill tribes have little in common, except perhaps
histories of mutual animosity.



   The first wave of Vietnamese and Cambodian refugees in the 1970s was drawn
from those countries' educated, urban elites. The second wave in the 1980s
consisted mostly of poor, illiterate farmers.  Education has been where tensions
have surfaced most visibly.

    Last year Stanford University in Palo Alto, one of the country's top
institutions, altered a required humanities course by adding Asian, Hispanic,
black and female authors to a reading list of conventional European classics.
Though such revisions are normal at universities, the move provoked attacks from
political conservatives.

    Berkeley, the state-owned University of California's most prestigious
campus, has infuriated Chinese and white parents by operating a complex quota
system (though it does not like the word quota) to achieve a racial balance
which reflects that of the state as a whole.

    "We want to create a mixed leadership group for 15 years down the road,"
says Michael Heyman, Berkeley's chancellor for 10 years until his retirement in
July. But admitting more blacks and Hispanics has meant keeping out better
qualified Asians (mostly Chinese and Japanese) and whites. If admissions were
made on academic criteria alone, concedes Heyman, these two groups would account
for 98 percent of undergraduates. This year's class of new entrants is 22
percent Hispanic and 7 percent black.

    Despite such efforts, the behavior of Berkeley's students is not an
encouraging omen. The campus is balkanized, with undergraduate groups organized
along racial lines and little fraternization between students of different
ethnic types. To break down these divisions, Berkeley plans to double the amount
of university supplied undergraduate housing.

    Heyman's successor as chancellor is Chang-Lin Tien, the first person of
Asian ancestry to hold such a senior post in any big American university. His
assignment is to lead Berkeley toward its declared goal of building "a
multicultural, multiracial university community."

    Tien has his work cut out for him. In fact California's educators have got
it upside down. Rather than lowering standards at the university level, the
effort to create a more equitable racial mix should be in the primary and
secondary schools, where students from every background could be raised to the
standards of privileged whites and so could compete on an equal basis.

    Unfortunately, California's schools are barely able to cope because the
state's aging, mostly white voters do not want to spend more on schools. They
are making a terrible mistake. One in six Californian schoolchildren was born
abroad. Nearly 30 percent of school children have parents who speak a language
other than English at home, and half of these children do not themselves speak
English well enough to be taught in it. Over 80 different languages are spoken
by students in the city of Los Angeles's public schools, where only 15 percent
of students are white and 62 percent are Hispanic.

    Alarmingly, the number of bilingual teachers in Los Angeles is actually
declining, and they are in chronically short supply throughout the state.
Dropout rates among Hispanic students are high. Since well over half of new
workers over the next 10 years are expected to be Hispanic, this bodes ill for
the state's labor force.  Hispanics now represent a quarter of California's
population. By 2000 the number is expected to be 30 percent.

    Some fear that a huge, unskilled Hispanic underclass will emerge whose
poverty and alienation will rival that of America's poor blacks. That does not
have to happen. But if Hispanic children are not brought more directly into
California's affluent mainstream, primarily through education, it could.

    An impoverished Mexican peasant may be grateful for the chance to be a
janitor or fruit picker. His American-born children will expect something
better.
 990 The Economist Newspaper Limited.

LOAD-DATE: November 10, 1992

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                            Times Publishing Company


                              96 of 187 DOCUMENTS

                         St. Petersburg Times (Florida)

                     November 4, 1990, Sunday, City Edition

Prepare for a long wait

BYLINE: PETER S. GREENBERG

SECTION: TRAVEL; THE SAVVY TRAVELER; Pg. 10E

LENGTH: 961 words



It was a typical day at the Tom Bradley International terminal at LAX.

    In the arrivals area, lines of incoming passengers were everywhere .  . .
and no one was moving.

    In one two-hour period, 11 international flights had arrived at the
terminal, and nine of them were jumbo jets.

    Could the terminal adequately handle the thousands of jet-lagged passengers?


    From a design perspective, the answer is yes. At LAX, the international
arrivals building has 70 primary inspection stations where customs and
immigration officers can process incoming passengers.

    The problem has been inadequate staffing. On an average, only 15 of these 70
stations are staffed at one time.

    "The most we've ever seen staffed at one time has been 27," says one station
manager for a European carrier. "It's a mess. We've had some of our passengers
held on the plane because of the crowds, and then, even when they get off, it
has sometimes taken two hours for passenger processing."

    Similar scenes of crowds and madness are repeated at any number of U.S.
airports of entry, including Honolulu, Miami and John F.  Kennedy in New York.

    In the last five years, tourism to the United States has grown 49 percent.
As a result, the number of people arriving in the United States has greatly
outpaced immigration and customs facilities and the staff needed to process
them.

    A recent U.S. General Accounting Office report blamed a lack of proper
airport and federal inspection facilities and staff for passenger waits of up to
three hours at peak airline arrival times.

    The GAO report surveyed 13 U.S. international airports and found congestion
and long immigration and customs waits at each of them. LAX was by far the
worst.

    Average processing delays: Atlanta: 1 hour, 45 minutes; Chicago: 1 hour; San
Francisco: up to two hours; New York's JFK: 1 to 2 hours; Los Angeles: 2 to 3
hours.

    "We suffer from a facilities problem," says Donna Blanchard, duty manager
for British Airways at Chicago's O'Hare Airport. "Right now, until we get the
new international terminal, we're operating out of a converted garage."

    And things in Chicago only threaten to get worse. "Every international
carrier, including British Airways, wants to add flights here," Blanchard says.

    Current plans call for O'Hare's new international terminal to be operational
in October . . . of 1993.

    Last year, JFK had 9.25-million international passenger arrivals pass
through customs. Miami came in second with 4.7-million and Los Angeles third
with 4.1-million. But LAX seems to be the airport experiencing the longest
delays and the most problems.

    "When you have a plane in from British Air, one from Lufthansa, another from
the Caribbean, one from the Middle East, and two that are delayed, we get crazed
we can't recover from that kind of passenger load," says Jane Arellano,
assistant district director of examinations for the Immigration and
Naturalization Service in Los Angeles.

    "It's not our fault if all the airlines want to arrive at the same time,"
says one INS official. "Sure there are the physical facilities to process
passengers. But we don't have the staff."

    Still, nothing angers passengers more than to arrive at an airport and see
empty inspection stations along with long lines of passengers waiting to be
processed. Predictably, government officials blame the airlines, and vice versa.


    The Air Transport Assocation blames the federal bureaucracy.  The ATA wants
the government to hire an additional 1,200 inspectors. In addition, the airlines
are lobbying the government to incorporate into U.S. law the current 45-minute
international standard for processing incoming passengers.

    President Bush has signed a trade bill that allocates $ 38-million for
additional Customs Service inspectors, but it still is not enough to solve the
problem.



What about preclearance?

    At present, passengers entering the United States from Canadian airports,
the Bahamas, Bermuda and some other Caribbean nations are precleared by U.S.
Customs and Immigration officials stationed in those countries. When passengers
arrive in the United States, they only need to pick up their baggage and leave.

    A few years ago, the United States tested some preclearance airports in
Europe. Now the preclearance idea is taking off again, and not a moment too
soon.

    United Airlines has begun a test program to ease entry pains for U.S.-bound
passengers from Tokyo. Passenger information is printed on a machine-readable
card, which is recorded at check-in and then sent by computer to the U.S.
Customs Service in Los Angeles or San Francisco while the plane is en route.

    On Sept. 25, another four-month preclearance test began for U.S.-bound
passengers at both Heathrow and Gatwick airports in London. From Gatwick to Los
Angeles, Virgin Flight 007 is being tested.     "It's been fantastic," reports
Mackenzie Grant, Virgin Airlines' vice president for North America. "We're so
excited about it that we want them to make it permanent."

    As in previous tests, U.S.-bound passengers on Virgin clear customs in
London and board their plane. When they land in Los Angeles, there's no waiting
in line.

    "They head straight for the baggage carousels and get their luggage," Grant
says. "On some days, we've had passengers land, get their bags and be out of the
terminal in 15 minutes."

    Now that's a great welcome to America.

LOAD-DATE: November 10, 1992

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: COLUMN

                            Times Publishing Company


                              97 of 187 DOCUMENTS

                         St. Petersburg Times (Florida)

                                November 4, 1990

BYLINE: PETER S. GREENBERG

LENGTH: 961 words



It was a typical day at the Tom Bradley International terminal at LAX.

    In the arrivals area, lines of incoming passengers were everywhere .  . .
and no one was moving.

    In one two-hour period, 11 international flights had arrived at the
terminal, and nine of them were jumbo jets.

    Could the terminal adequately handle the thousands of jet-lagged passengers?


    From a design perspective, the answer is yes. At LAX, the international
arrivals building has 70 primary inspection stations where customs and
immigration officers can process incoming passengers.

    The problem has been inadequate staffing. On an average, only 15 of these 70
stations are staffed at one time.

    "The most we've ever seen staffed at one time has been 27," says one station
manager for a European carrier. "It's a mess. We've had some of our passengers
held on the plane because of the crowds, and then, even when they get off, it
has sometimes taken two hours for passenger processing."

    Similar scenes of crowds and madness are repeated at any number of U.S.
airports of entry, including Honolulu, Miami and John F.  Kennedy in New York.

    In the last five years, tourism to the United States has grown 49 percent.
As a result, the number of people arriving in the United States has greatly
outpaced immigration and customs facilities and the staff needed to process
them.

    A recent U.S. General Accounting Office report blamed a lack of proper
airport and federal inspection facilities and staff for passenger waits of up to
three hours at peak airline arrival times.

    The GAO report surveyed 13 U.S. international airports and found congestion
and long immigration and customs waits at each of them. LAX was by far the
worst.

    Average processing delays: Atlanta: 1 hour, 45 minutes; Chicago: 1 hour; San
Francisco: up to two hours; New York's JFK: 1 to 2 hours; Los Angeles: 2 to 3
hours.

    "We suffer from a facilities problem," says Donna Blanchard, duty manager
for British Airways at Chicago's O'Hare Airport. "Right now, until we get the
new international terminal, we're operating out of a converted garage."

    And things in Chicago only threaten to get worse. "Every international
carrier, including British Airways, wants to add flights here," Blanchard says.

    Current plans call for O'Hare's new international terminal to be operational
in October . . . of 1993.

    Last year, JFK had 9.25-million international passenger arrivals pass
through customs. Miami came in second with 4.7-million and Los Angeles third
with 4.1-million. But LAX seems to be the airport experiencing the longest
delays and the most problems.

    "When you have a plane in from British Air, one from Lufthansa, another from
the Caribbean, one from the Middle East, and two that are delayed, we get crazed
we can't recover from that kind of passenger load," says Jane Arellano,
assistant district director of examinations for the Immigration and
Naturalization Service in Los Angeles.

    "It's not our fault if all the airlines want to arrive at the same time,"
says one INS official. "Sure there are the physical facilities to process
passengers. But we don't have the staff."

    Still, nothing angers passengers more than to arrive at an airport and see
empty inspection stations along with long lines of passengers waiting to be
processed. Predictably, government officials blame the airlines, and vice versa.


    The Air Transport Assocation blames the federal bureaucracy.  The ATA wants
the government to hire an additional 1,200 inspectors. In addition, the airlines
are lobbying the government to incorporate into U.S. law the current 45-minute
international standard for processing incoming passengers.

    President Bush has signed a trade bill that allocates $ 38-million for
additional Customs Service inspectors, but it still is not enough to solve the
problem.



What about preclearance?

    At present, passengers entering the United States from Canadian airports,
the Bahamas, Bermuda and some other Caribbean nations are precleared by U.S.
Customs and Immigration officials stationed in those countries. When passengers
arrive in the United States, they only need to pick up their baggage and leave.

    A few years ago, the United States tested some preclearance airports in
Europe. Now the preclearance idea is taking off again, and not a moment too
soon.

    United Airlines has begun a test program to ease entry pains for U.S.-bound
passengers from Tokyo. Passenger information is printed on a machine-readable
card, which is recorded at check-in and then sent by computer to the U.S.
Customs Service in Los Angeles or San Francisco while the plane is en route.

    On Sept. 25, another four-month preclearance test began for U.S.-bound
passengers at both Heathrow and Gatwick airports in London. From Gatwick to Los
Angeles, Virgin Flight 007 is being tested.     "It's been fantastic," reports
Mackenzie Grant, Virgin Airlines' vice president for North America. "We're so
excited about it that we want them to make it permanent."

    As in previous tests, U.S.-bound passengers on Virgin clear customs in
London and board their plane. When they land in Los Angeles, there's no waiting
in line.

    "They head straight for the baggage carousels and get their luggage," Grant
says. "On some days, we've had passengers land, get their bags and be out of the
terminal in 15 minutes."

    Now that's a great welcome to America.

LOAD-DATE: November 8, 1992

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                            Times Publishing Company


                              98 of 187 DOCUMENTS

                         St. Petersburg Times (Florida)

                    December 17, 1990, Monday, City Edition

Elevator inspections may be on the way down

BYLINE: DIANE STEINLE

SECTION: CLEARWATER TIMES; COLUMN; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 747 words



Bartola Agrispina Acosta-Pereda, a 75-year-old Cuban woman who had just arrived
in her new home, Miami, stepped onto an escalator in Miami International Airport
Sept. 30. She was headed for the customs and immigration offices upstairs.

    The escalator was crowded with other newly arrived immigrants when a
heavyset woman at the top apparently lost her balance and fell.

    "It was like bowling balls. Everybody went down," said Bob Donovan, chief of
the state's Bureau of Elevator Inspection, which inspects elevators and
escalators. Acosta-Pereda took the force of all those falling bodies and was
crushed to death.

    Although they usually don't result in death, escalator accidents are pretty
common, according to Donovan. People lose their balance, or they don't plan
their step off properly and fall down.  Children get their fingers or shoelaces
caught in the mechanism and are hurt.

    People mistakes, Donovan calls them.

    Elevators are a different matter. When someone gets hurt in an elevator,
it's usually because the elevator malfunctioned. The state has a detailed
elevator safety code based on national standards and employs 21 elevator
inspectors who look for violations and potential malfunctions.

    They want riding elevators to be a pleasure. They don't want elevators to
fail to open, or get stuck between floors, or shimmy and shake in the shaft, or
horrors drop. So when they find a violation, they give the owner 30 days to get
it fixed, then they begin levying a fine if the violation still exists.

    But in Florida these days, there is a lot of belt-cinching going on in state
agencies. And Donovan won't be a bit surprised if the Florida Legislature next
year decides to look at ways to cut back costs and duties in the Bureau of
Elevator Inspection.

    It wouldn't be the first time. In 1985, the Legislature passed a law that
exempted from inspection all elevators in two-story buildings where an elevator
maintenance company is employed to take care of the elevators.

    That means inspectors have had about 4,200 fewer elevators to inspect. But
that also means that most elevators in two-story buildings such as department
stores and apartment houses haven't been inspected since the law took effect.

    If you are a person who gets nervous in elevators, but find some comfort in
telling yourself that the elevator probably has been inspected recently, this is
not good news.

    Under current law, if a building has three or more floors and the owner
contracts with an elevator maintenance company, the elevator is inspected once
every two years. It is inspected once a year if there is no maintenance company
involved.

    The people who are in charge of elevator inspections began to wonder this
year if the lack of regular inspections in two-story buildings has had any
detrimental effect. And they wanted to be prepared with facts and figures if the
Legislature began looking at extending the inspection exemption to, say, three-
and four-story buildings.

    So last month they began spot-checking elevators in two-story buildings,
even though the law says it is not necessary. The project hasn't been a top
priority for busy inspectors, however, and the results are not yet in. "God
knows we have enough to say grace over as it is," Donovan said.

    There's another change coming. Those posted permits in elevators that note
the date of the last inspection and the inspector's name are being changed. They
won't have the date or name anymore.  Since elevators aren't inspected as
frequently now, and since most elevators in two-story buildings aren't inspected
at all by the state, elevator riders kept getting upset when they saw how long
it had been since an inspection, Donovan said. The inspectors' names are being
removed because when inspectors left or died, their names remained indefinitely
in the elevators in their districts.

    Although there are changes occurring in elevator inspection in the state,
the field of elevator manufacturing isn't changing much.  "Basically, elevators
just go up and down," Donovan said matter-of-factly.

    But one of the latest innovations is a soothing, computer-generated voice
that talks to elevator riders. "Good morning," croons the voice. "Second floor,
lingerie."


LOAD-DATE: November 11, 1992

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DISTRIBUTION: CLEARWATER TIMES; LARGO-SEMINOLE TIMES; NORTH PINELLAS TIMES; CITY
TIMES

TYPE: COLUMN

                            Times Publishing Company


                              99 of 187 DOCUMENTS

                         St. Petersburg Times (Florida)

                   December 19, 1990, Wednesday, City Edition

WORLD WAR II50 YEARS AGO TODAY

SECTION: NATIONAL; WORLD WAR II: 50 YEARS AGO TODAY; Pg. 6A

LENGTH: 203 words



From newspapers of Dec. 19, 1940: The U.S. State Department announces that it
has "unblocked" immigration quotas to admit 2,000 European refugees, men and
women "of intellectual superiority, of education, of culture, of character."
More than 1,000 visas already have been issued, chiefly for refugees from the
Netherlands, Belgium and France who now are in unoccupied (Vichy) France
sheltering from "the near approach of the hostile army and the agents of the
Gestapo." The State Department says millions of refugees have fled from
persecution but gives no indication of admitting greater numbers to this
country. It is learned in Washington that the Roosevelt administration has
advised Britain to go ahead with new war orders of $ 3-billion without worrying
too much where the money or credit is coming from for payment. Britain has
indicated that it is running out of money to buy arms from the United States.
Pierre Laval, dismissed as vice prime minister of France some days ago, has been
released from house arrest in Vichy and now is in Paris. Laval's release is seen
as a minor concession by French Prime Minister Marshal Henri Philippe Petain to
Adolf Hitler

LOAD-DATE: November 11, 1992

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: SERIES

                            Times Publishing Company


                              100 of 187 DOCUMENTS

                         St. Petersburg Times (Florida)

                    December 24, 1990, Monday, City Edition

Israel facing "emergency' from Soviet Jews

SOURCE: Associated Press DL JERUSALEM

SECTION: NATIONAL; Pg. 5A

LENGTH: 620 words



Israeli officials said Sunday that emergency efforts are needed to accommodate
an influx of Soviet Jews, who the immigration minister said are "raining from
the sky" in record numbers.

    In southern Beersheba, immigrants set up a tent camp to protest lack of
housing. Other Israelis there staged a demonstration to urge that mobile homes
for immigrants not be put near their prosperous neighborhood.

    About 5,500 Soviet Jews reached Israel in a special airlift from Thursday
through Saturday, with an additional 1,500 arriving Sunday.

    State television broadcast footage of the unprecedented flood of immigrants
being processed at Ben Gurion International Airport outside Tel Aviv.

    "I've never seen anything like this here," said Shifra Oren, a longtime
volunteer at the terminal.

    Immigration Minister Yitzhak Peretz said the influx of newcomers had forced
authorities to resort to emergency housing solutions for the first time since
the immigration wave began in mid-1989. He said about a third of this weekend's
arrivals were housed in hotels.

    Officials attributed the upsurge to fears of political instability and the
economic crisis in the Soviet Union, and to improved transit through Eastern
European countries.

    "The trick is to get the Jews out as quickly as possible," Seymour Reich,
outgoing chairman of the Conference of Presidents of Major American Jewish
Organizations, said after stepping off a plane.

    Reich said the urgency was partly out of concerns triggered by Thursday's
resignation of Soviet Foreign Minister Eduard Shevardnadze. The resignation has
aggravated fears of growing  unrest in the Soviet Union.

    Jewish groups planned to ask the Bush administration "to use every means
possible at their command to bring the Jews out," Reich added.

    The sense of urgency was pointed up by a government waiver of the usual ban
on Friday evening and Saturday flights, the Jewish Sabbath. Israel's national
carrier El Al was ordered to use every plane available to ferry the Jews from
Eastern Europe.

    Simcha Dinitz, chairman of the quasi-governmental Jewish Agency that handles
immigrant transportation, said the rate was expected to increase to a regular
influx of 1,500 Soviets daily.

    Officials expect more than 30,000 Soviets in December, bringing this year's
immigration total to 200,000. That includes all Jewish immigrants. Israel
expects about 1-million Soviets by the end of 1992.

    Uri Gordon, chief of the Jewish Agency's Immigration Department, urged the
government to declare a state of emergency.

    "We witness a real drama of a people in migration. But we should remember we
will be tested by absorption. We have to declare a state of emergency in the
country and create a new set of priorities," Gordon said.

    "We should immediately freeze housing prices and each one in the Israeli
society personally has to help. . . . The government alone won't solve the
problem."

    In the Negev desert town of Beersheba, where thousands of Soviets have
settled, eight new immigrant families raised a tent camp in the southern town of
Beersheba to dramatize the housing crunch.

    "The allowance they receive is not enough to rent an apartment," protest
spokesman Ilya Schneider said. He said a two-bedroom apartment in the least
expensive Beersheba neighborhood costs $ 400 a month.

    An immigrant family of three receives $ 9,000 a year in government allowance
to cover rent, food, clothing, education and transportation expenses.

LOAD-DATE: November 11, 1992

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                            Times Publishing Company


                              101 of 187 DOCUMENTS

                         St. Petersburg Times (Florida)

                   December 26, 1990, Wednesday, City Edition

Elevator inspections may be on the way down

BYLINE: DIANE STEINLE

SECTION: BRANDON TIMES; COLUMN; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 761 words



Bartola Agrispina Acosta-Pereda, a 75-year-old Cuban woman who had just arrived
in her new home, Miami, stepped onto an escalator in Miami International Airport
on Sept. 30. She was headed for the customs and immigration offices upstairs.

    The escalator was crowded with other newly arrived immigrants when a
heavyset woman at the top apparently lost her balance and fell.

    "It was like bowling balls. Everybody went down," said Bob Donovan, chief of
the state's Bureau of Elevator Inspection, which inspects elevators and
escalators. Acosta-Pereda took the force of all those falling bodies and was
crushed to death.

    Although they usually don't result in death, escalator accidents are pretty
common, according to Donovan. People lose their balance, or they don't plan
their step off properly and fall down.  Children get their fingers or shoelaces
caught in the mechanism and are hurt.

    People mistakes, Donovan calls them.

    Elevators are a different matter. When someone gets hurt in an elevator,
it's usually because the elevator malfunctioned. The state has a detailed
elevator safety code based on national standards and employs 21 elevator
inspectors who look for violations and potential malfunctions.

    They want riding elevators to be a pleasure. They don't want elevators to
fail to open, or get stuck between floors, or shimmy and shake in the shaft, or
horrors drop. So when they find a violation, they give the owner 30 days to get
it fixed, then they begin levying a fine if the violation still exists.

    But in Florida these days, a lot of belt-cinching is going on in state
agencies. And Donovan won't be a bit surprised if the Florida Legislature next
year decides to look at ways to cut back costs and duties in the Bureau of
Elevator Inspection.

    It wouldn't be the first time. In 1985, the Legislature passed a law that
exempted from inspection all elevators in two-story buildings where an elevator
maintenance company is employed to take care of the elevators.

    That means inspectors have had about 4,200 fewer elevators to inspect. But
it also means that most elevators in two-story buildings such as department
stores and apartment houses haven't been inspected since the law took effect.

    If you are a person who gets nervous in elevators, but find some comfort in
telling yourself that the elevator probably has been inspected recently, this is
not good news.

    Under current law, if a building has three or more floors and the owner
contracts with an elevator maintenance company, the elevator is inspected once
every two years. If no maintenance company is involved, it is inspected once a
year.

    This year, the people who are in charge of elevator inspections began to
wonder if the lack of regular inspections in two-story buildings has had any
detrimental effect. And they want to be prepared with facts and figures if the
Legislature starts looking at extending the inspection exemption to, say, three-
and four-story buildings.

    So last month they began spot-checking elevators in two-story buildings,
even though the law says it is not necessary. The project hasn't been a top
priority for busy inspectors, however, and the results are not yet in. "God
knows we have enough to say grace over as it is," Donovan said.

    There's another change coming. Those posted permits in elevators that note
the date of the last inspection and the inspector's name are being changed. They
won't have the date or name anymore.  Since elevators aren't inspected as
frequently now, and since most elevators in two-story buildings aren't inspected
at all by the state, elevator riders kept getting upset when they saw how long
it had been since an inspection, Donovan said. The inspectors' names are being
removed because when inspectors left or died, their names remained indefinitely
in the elevators in their districts.

    Although changes are occurring in elevator inspection in the state, the
field of elevator manufacturing isn't changing much. "Basically
 elevators just go up and down," Donovan said matter-of-factly.

    But one of the latest innovations is a soothing, computer-generated voice
that talks to elevator riders. "Good morning," croons the voice. "Second floor,
lingerie."
 Diane Steinle is editor of editorials for the North Pinellas editions of the
St. Petersburg Times.

LOAD-DATE: November 11, 1992

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DISTRIBUTION: BRANDON TIMES; TAMPA

TYPE: COLUMN

                            Times Publishing Company


                              102 of 187 DOCUMENTS

                         St. Petersburg Times (Florida)

                    January 5, 1991, Saturday, State Edition

Immigrants can't be excluded for AIDS

SECTION: NATIONAL; NATIONAL DIGEST; Pg. 6A

LENGTH: 585 words

DATELINE: WASHINGTON; VISALLIA, Calif.; NEWARK, N.J.; NEW ORLEANS; NEW YORK;
KANSAS CITY, Kan.



WASHINGTON Secretary of Health and Human Services Louis Sullivan has decided to
remove infection with the AIDS virus from a list of medical conditions for which
immigrants can be excluded from the United States, a department spokesman said
Friday. The decision came two months after Congress passed a law requiring
Sullivan to revise the list of such conditions. It was welcomed Friday by
public-health experts and AIDS activists, who have strongly opposed the U.S.
policy barring HIV-infected immigrants and travelers since it went into effect
in 1987. Sullivan also has proposed removing several other conditions from the
list, leaving active tuberculosis as the only disease for which immigration
officials could refuse an immigrant or traveler entry to the United States.

 Woman ordered to use Norplant device

 VISALIA, Calif.  A California judge has ordered a woman convicted of beating
her children to have the recently approved Norplant birth control device
implanted in her arm for three years.  Tulare County Superior Court Judge Howard
Broadman found Darlene Johnson, a 27-year-old pregnant mother of four, guilty of
beating her children with a belt. As part of a plea bargain with her
court-appointed attorney, Broadman sentenced Johnson to one year in jail and
three years of probation. Broadman also ordered Johnson to have an array of six
rubbery plastic Norplant tubes inserted into her upper arm by June.

 Navy in battle over antique bell

 NEWARK, N.J.  The Navy and a New Jersey antique dealer are fighting over
ownership of a bronze bell from the Confederate ship, the CSS Alabama, which
sank off the coast of France in a major Civil War sea battle. Assistant U.S.
Attorney Susan Cassell said the bell was the "spoils of war" and belongs to the
United States. "It struck its colors and surrendered," she said. But antique
dealer Richard Steinmetz, of Westwood, N.J., who bought the bell 14 years ago
for $ 12,000 after it had been used for years to ring the last call for drinks
in an English pub, wants to sell it at auction. He argues that thousands of
military relics are in private hands. U.S. District Judge Dickinson Debevoise
reserved decision after a hearing Friday.

 Elsewhere
 NEW ORLEANS David Duke, a former Ku Klux Klan leader turned conservative
Republican, Friday announced his candidacy for governor of Louisiana in the 1991
fall elections. Duke got 44 percent of the vote in losing a U.S. Senate race
last November.
 WASHINGTON A team of inspectors has discovered numerous safety and
environmental problems at the nuclear facilities at Brookhaven National
Laboratory on Long Island, N.Y., but none serious enough to halt operations, the
Energy Department said Friday.
 NEW YORK Lawyers for the accused assassin of extremist Israeli rabbi Meir
Kahane said Friday they may ask their client to plead not guilty by reason of
insanity. A Manhattan judge gave the lawyers and accused assassin El Sayyid
Nosair 10 days to make the decision.
 KANSAS CITY, Kan.  Freezing rain caused a chain-reaction accident on Interstate
635 Friday involving 52 cars, injuring at least five people, authorities said.
The interstate was closed for 90 minutes.
 NEW YORK Mayor David Dinkins said Friday that thousands of city workers will be
laid off because revenues are only trickling in, turning the budget gaps for
fiscal years 1991 and 1992 into a chasm of $ 2.5-billion.

LOAD-DATE: November 12, 1992

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: DIGEST

                            Times Publishing Company


                              103 of 187 DOCUMENTS

                         St. Petersburg Times (Florida)

                    January 26, 1991, Saturday, City Edition

377 take oath of citizenship

BYLINE: MIKE JACKSON

SECTION: TAMPA BAY AND STATE; PINELLAS; METRO REPORT; Pg. 3B

LENGTH: 159 words

DATELINE: TARPON SPRINGS



Three hundred seventy-seven immigrants took part Friday in a mass naturalization
ceremony at a civic hall in Tarpon Springs.

    The ceremony just missed becoming the largest mass naturalization ever in
the Tampa Bay area, but 25 people didn't show up, officials said. In November,
386 people swore an oath to the United States at the Tampa Theater and that was
the largest.

     Friday's ceremony was unusual in that guards passed metal detectors over
everyone and searched pockets and bags before admitting people. Officials said
the tight security was brought on by terrorist threats from the Middle East.

    Becoming citizens guarantees the rights and privileges set forth by the
Constitution, said U.S. Magistrate Thomas G. Wilson, who  presided over the
ceremony.

    "The war that we are now in underscores the importance of this great
document," Wilson said.

 MIKE JACKSON

LOAD-DATE: November 12, 1992

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DISTRIBUTION: TAMPA BAY AND STATE

                            Times Publishing Company


                              104 of 187 DOCUMENTS

                         St. Petersburg Times (Florida)

                   January 30, 1991, Wednesday, City Edition

New future for Israel

BYLINE: WILBUR G. LANDREY

SECTION: NATIONAL; Pg. 5A

LENGTH: 847 words

DATELINE: JERUSALEM



Along with the great new wave of Soviet Jewish immigration, the Persian Gulf war
has brought about one of those historic turning points that in critical hours
have galvanized and changed the Jewish state.

    So far Israel has been persuaded to stay out of the fighting despite the
Scuds falling almost nightly on Tel Aviv. While Prime Minister Yitzhak Shamir
has promised to do nothing without coordinating first with the United States,
the anger and tone are mounting, and the impression is that Israel is ready and
prepared to strike.

    A chemical warhead on one of those Scuds would be the trigger. It might take
less if Israelis believed the threat was imminent or a Scud got through to cause
terrible damage and loss of life.

    "Look, if worse comes to worse, we're going in," said a senior Israeli
official I've known for years, as we sat in his office Tuesday watching Cable
News Network (CNN) correspondent Peter Arnett's interview with Saddam Hussein.
"We'll just tell the Americans we're coming and please let us work."

    The official is in an excellent position to know.

    Even before the war, Israelis saw the massive immigration of Soviet Jews
200,000 last year, perhaps 300,000 this year as possibly the most significant
development since the foundation of the Jewish state in 1948. Then, too,
immigration, war, and diplomatic maneuver came at the same time.

    And even if Israel doesn't get into the fighting this time, Israelis know
that after the war, nothing in the Middle East will be the same. The balance of
power between Israel and the Arabs will have changed, almost certainly in
Israel's favor.

    From outside, pressure will grow on the right-wing Likud government to
negotiate in some way with the Palestinians, even discredited, demoralized,
defeated and angry Palestinians. Most world leaders have long since been
convinced that peace in the Middle East won't be permanent, nor stability long
lasting, until the Israeli-Palestinian quarrel is solved.

    Inside Israel, the argument will again be over whether the occupied West
Bank and Gaza Strip should be held in thrall or whether a territorial compromise
is still possible. Rather than negotiate, the temptation will be great and the
pressure strong to try to suppress the Palestinians once and for all.

    Ehud Olmert, one of the young stars in the Likud who is in his first Cabinet
post as health minister, confirmed that Likud believes that the occupied
territories "are ours and we have the strongest claim."

    Even if Saddam Hussein isn't destroyed, as Israel hopes, Olmert said, he
would be like Egypt's Gamal Abdel Nasser after Egypt's defeat in the 1967 war,
popular maybe, but powerless.

    Simcha Dinitz, the head of the Jewish Agency responsible for bringing
immigrants here, comes from the opposition Labor Party, which on the contrary
favors a territorial compromise "enough land for peace, but not enough to
destroy our security," Dinitz said.

    After the war, he predicted, the United States will be tougher on Israel; he
hopes not too tough.

    On the left of the Israeli spectrum, peace activists were shocked when they
saw the Palestine Liberation Organization (PLO) side with Saddam Hussein and
West Bank Palestinians celebrate when Scuds fell on Tel Aviv.

    Amos Oz, probably Israel's best-known novelist, charged the European peace
movement with "appeasement" in the mass demonstrations that seemed to blame the
war on everyone but Saddam Hussein.

    "The Palestinians have once again for about the umpteenth time committed a
deadly mistake for the Palestinians themselves," Oz told a press conference. But
he stuck to his convictions by continuing to demand self-determination for the
Palestinians.

    "Self-determination is not bestowed on nations because of good behavior," he
said.

    Finally, Ze'ev Chafets. It's hard to think of better and funnier company or
sometimes tougher opinions than those of Chafets, an American-born Israeli who
was director of the foreign press office here when Menachem Begin was prime
minister. Chafets is now managing director of the Jerusalem Report, a new weekly
magazine that prints some of Israel's best and brightest writers, including
himself.

    "I have never been so angry as when I sat in the sealed room with my
8-year-old son wearing a gas mask," Chafets fumed Tuesday. "I said to myself I
was going to do everything I can to frustrate those who would let this happen
again."    All of this is an argument Americans will easily be drawn in to.
Israel's past battles have sometimes been won not only on the battlefield but in
the United States, its government, its Congress and its public opinion. Having
fought the war, the United States should insist that this time the Palestinian
issue be settled, taking Israel into account certainly, but others, too.

LOAD-DATE: November 12, 1992

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: COLUMN

                            Times Publishing Company


                              105 of 187 DOCUMENTS

                         St. Petersburg Times (Florida)

                   January 17, 1996, Wednesday, City Edition

America remains a nation of immigrants

SECTION: EDITORIAL; LETTERS; Pg. 11A

LENGTH: 1978 words



Re: America should do more to protect its own borders, letter, Jan. 2.

I am pleased that the "nativists" are pointing out all the problems  caused by
"immigrants." I guess we have suffered far too much because of  those lazy,
poor, uneducated, (add your own stereotype here) foreign types.  They should all
go back to where they came from. For hundreds of years those  "aliens" have
invaded our shores bringing disease, crime, poverty and ruin.

Would you round-up everyone who is not an indigenous American and put them  on
the boat back to Europe? That's where most of "them" came from. (To  correct a
colossal blunder by one seriously lost Italian, only real  "Indians" would be
herded back to India.) Unless, of course, you'd like the  rules bent so that the
door closes behind you and not me, but then you  wouldn't be a true "nativist."

We have never been anything but a nation of immigrants, the great melting  pot.
You shame your foreign ancestors with your ridiculous, extremist views.  For 500
years the economics of freedom in a free market has drawn these  people, and it
will for hundreds of years to come. The laws and the guards and  the guns will
never be realistic solutions to border control, if the fall of  the Berlin wall
was any sort of oft-repeated historic lesson.

Kevin Quillen, Largo

It was the Indians' land

   Re: Not everyone is screaming BINGO! in Marianna, Dec. 25.

Please allow me to ask the people of the United States where they got their
land from. Where are the people they bought - or should I say stole - this  land
from? Living in poverty, the worst poverty of any other group in the  United
States.

I have never written a letter to the editor before, but I am so angry about  the
article about the Indians and the casinos that I just can't believe the  nerve
of some people. Why didn't you just totally kill all the Indians? As  soon as
they try to make any money to improve their lifestyle, white people  still jump
right on them! How dare someone question their right not to pay  taxes on the
land stolen from them!

And then to say the Indians "will burden their schools." You are  burdening
their land!

Anyone who feels burdened by American Indians can go back to Europe, or
whatever country their ancestors are from, so the Indians are not burdened by
them. It is the shame of all Americans that they allow the most beautiful,
sensitive people in the world to live in such poor conditions with prejudices
that never allow them to succeed. You should all be ashamed!

Sharon L. Hoopes, Clearwater

In defense of Muslims

      As a Muslim and an American, I have had enough of the vicious and unjust
campaign that is currently being launched against Islam, Muslims and even
Americans who have relations with Muslims. I echo the concerns of former
American congressman Paul Findlay in his book, They Dare to Speak Out. He
criticizes the Jewish-American lobby for targeting Americans for their support
of Palestinian human and national rights. He also cites their attempts to
squash public debate and control U.S. foreign policy in the Middle East. He
rightly claims that their tactics are undemocratic and are against the  American
interests.

The latest campaign was initiated by freelance journalist Steven Emerson in  a
PBS documentary Jihad in America in November 1994. It was clearly  anti-Islamic
and full of unsubstantiated allegations. It distorted the meaning  and essence
of the Islamic term Jihad.

In May 1995, the Tampa Tribune picked up where Emerson left off and began a
series of articles by Michael Fechter in which a University of South Florida
professor, Dr. Sami Al-Arian, is alleged to have ties with Middle Eastern
terrorists.

As a result of these unsubstantiated articles, USF buckled under pressure  and
suspended its agreement with WISE (World and Islam Studies Enterprise). In  a
Tribune editorial dated Nov. 3, 1995, USF professors as well as the Muslim
community were strongly criticized for defending WISE and its relationship  with
the university.

In the Tribune's simple-minded logic, they claim that since Ramadan  Abdullah, a
former WISE director, was recently elected head of the Islamic  Jihad, they had
proven the "ties to terrorism." Once again, however, they  provide no evidence
to support their allegations. Their rationale is as  follows: A person is
accused of committing a crime at age 40; he is therefore  guilty of having been
a criminal all his life without a fair trial or a guilty  verdict by a jury; his
associates are also criminals.

What kind of journalism is this? It is unjust, un-American and  undemocratic.
Some professionals have even likened it to "journalistic  terrorism" -
McCarthy-style. I commend the St. Petersburg Times for its fair  and objective
coverage on this issue.

If Muslim rights as citizens are squashed, then so can others' rights be
trampled. That is when our democracy will crumble and give way to a police
state.  Pilar Saad, Tampa

Exercise caution

   The St. Petersburg Times is to be commended for its thoughtful editorial
regarding our country's relations with the Islamic world (Islamic
opportunities, Jan. 2).

We must distinguish between Islamic moderates and Islamic extremists.  Indeed,
it may be appropriate to distinguish between Islamic fundamentalists  and
Islamic fundamentalist terrorists. Actually, fundamentalists of all  religions
are to be admired for their faith.

On the other hand, there are cautions which should be taken in respect to
"Islamic opportunities." As the editorial suggests, we should support  secular
Islamic states attempting to develop democracies. Some of the most  dangerous
Islamic states, however, are secular. Saddam Hussein is a secular  tyrant, and
Iraq still remains a major threat. Assad of Syria is secular, and  he wiped out
over 20,000 of his own countrymen in the fundamentalist city of  Hama.

In our desire to develop "Islamic opportunities," however, we must not be
manipulated into providing safe havens for terrorists posing as academics.
Unfortunately, this we have done at our own University of South Florida. While
we should try to understand the Islamic world, we can only achieve such
understanding by offering balanced courses taught by objective scholars. To
allow the apologists for the worst representatives of Islam to prevail is a
serious error.

Norman N. Gross, president, PRIMER (Promoting

Responsibility In Middle East Reporting),

Palm Harbor

Memories of the '60s

   Re: Boom!, Jan. 1.

A happy and peaceful birthday, Francene Penhallow! And kudos to John A.  Cutter
for his Jan. 1 well-written article about this former flower child who  is now
50 years old. I am the father of one who will be the same age in  February and
it brought back many happy memories to me as I read it.

My daughter, now the Rev. Virginia Hershberger of Sarasota, and I, who am a
retired chief electrical engineer living in Spring Hill, shared many happy
experiences during that magical era. We never missed a Peter, Paul and Mary
concert, among many others, were part of the "be-ins" in the park every  Sunday
and spent a multitude of weekends in Greenwich Village, traveling from
Philadelphia to New York on the train. I regret to this day that I was not  with
Virginia at Woodstock because I had to go on a business trip, which I  will
always consider an error in judgment on my part.

Each of our homes contain mementos of those days when love and peace were
realities and today's violence was not a way of life. We reminisce about those
times whenever we are together. I recall my carefree wanderings through  England
on a limited budget, in the company of an impoverished British acting  troupe.
In fact, I still correspond with an Irish actress, Eileen Pollock, who  now is
on the legitimate stage and plays in BBC sitcoms. Our friendship has  endured
over the years and we occasionally manage to visit with each other.  Although my
main interests now are writing and playing the theater organ, I  frequently dust
off one of my old Beatles records and listen to their music of  that golden
yesterday.

I admit that I could write pages describing my experiences, but I must be  brief
if I hope to have this letter published.

Francene, may you always hold the memories of the '60s in your heart.  Peace!

Edgar H. Althouse, Spring Hill

Boomers should take offense

      Re: Boom!, John Cutter's front-page lead article depicting the present
status of the baby-boom generation.

What a distorted, unrepresentative, inappropriate and unfortunate choice of  a
generally negative symbol of the baby-boom generation! I have no quarrel  with
the lifestyle Francene Penhallow has chosen; she has been and still is
completely free to do "her thing," whatever that is. But certainly her  "career"

 represents the small minority and the fringe element in the  millions of
baby-boomers, most of whom went to high school, on to college,  graduated, got
jobs, got married, made commitments to themselves, their  spouses, family and
society, and have made and are continuing to make  significant contributions to
this country and its citizens and to the world.  Tens of thousands of them
fought in a distant and unpopular war, and thousands  "gave their last full
measure of devotion" - their lives - on that distant  battlefield.

They did not trot off to New York City to scream under the windows of the  hotel
in which the Beatles were staying, and they did not hasten to make a
"pilgrimage" to Woodstock - they had other things to do, like working their  way
through school or holding a steady job. Also, they did not forsake the  United
States and move to England; they felt then and still feel a strong  sense of
obligation and loyalty to this nation which has given them such  unlimited
opportunities for accomplishment.

Mr. Cutter, you have done a gross disservice to, and offended and insulted,
millions of baby-boomers who are, thankfully, a far cry from the
"representative" you so unfortunately chose for your front-page story. Your
distortion of the lifestyles of the majority of baby-boomers is inexcusable  and
reprehensible. At the least, you owe them a very humble apology.

Victor J. Rudolph, Clearwater

Male birth control missing

   Re: New generation of birth control stalled, Dec. 27.

I read this article with the hope of hearing some hint that the other half  of
the human race would be included in the "new generation of birth  control."

How is it that research in this field has managed to avoid devising  effective
birth control for males? Males continue to not be perceived as  socially
responsible for avoiding unwanted pregnancies and it is doubtful  society will
expect males to be accountable until they, too, have the option  of a pill to
pop or an implant to maintain.

If research and development are failing due to product liability and the
politics of medicine, how long can we ignore what is probably a more  clinically
receptive and viable market for birth control?

Roberta Jordan, St. Petersburg

Share your opinions

   We invite readers to write to us. Letters for publication should be
addressed to Letters to the Editor, P.O. Box 1121, St. Petersburg, 33731.

They can be sent by E-mail to letterssptimes.com or they can be sent by fax  to
893-8675.

They should be brief and must include the writer's address and phone  number.
Please include a handwritten signature when possible.

Letters may be edited for clarity, taste and length. We regret that not all
letters can be printed.

LOAD-DATE: January 17, 1996

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: BLACK AND WHITE CARTOON, DON ADDIS; In front of the pearly gates of
"EXTINCTION" is a sign that reads "FLORIDA PANTHER CROSSING."

TYPE: LETTER

                    Copyright 1996 Times Publishing Company


                              106 of 187 DOCUMENTS

                         St. Petersburg Times (Florida)

                     January 19, 1996, Friday, City Edition

Population report comes under attack

SOURCE: Compiled from Staff and Wire Reports

SECTION: TAMPA BAY AND STATE; BRIEFLY; Pg. 5B

LENGTH: 304 words

DATELINE: MIAMI



Florida's population growth, fueled in part by high levels of immigration,
threatens to overwhelm the state, a Washington think tank said in a report
released Thursday.

The study by the Center for Immigration Studies concludes that immigration
accounts for almost a third of the growth in Florida's population, and it
recommends federal action to halt illegal immigration and "sharply" reduce
legal immigration.

If population growth is not curbed, the report said, Florida could be home  to
22-million people by 2025, compared with 14-million now. The byproduct  would be
strained government services, even more crowded schools, accelerated  loss of
wetlands and logjammed roads.

The report came quickly under attack from immigration advocates, who noted  that
the Center for Immigration studies advocates reducing immigration.

"I have the impression they started with the conclusion and tried to find  the
figures to support it," said Cheryl Little, an attorney with Florida  Immigrant
Advocacy.

Senior group reviews

action against Chiles

A senior citizens group from Arlington, Va.,  says it is considering a
class-action lawsuit against Gov. Lawton Chiles and Lt. Gov. Buddy MacKay for
"stealing" the 1994 election.

Jim Martin, president of 60 Plus Association, which promotes tax fairness  for
seniors, will be in Tallahassee today to discuss the suit.

In a statement released Thursday, Martin said the calls made by the Chiles
campaign to senior citizens violated their civil rights and stole the  election.

Callers who said they were with a tax fairness group also infringed on his
group's long-standing slogan, Martin said. The nonpartisan group gives annual
awards to members of Congress for "senior-friendly votes."

- Compiled from wire reports

LOAD-DATE: January 19, 1996

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DISTRIBUTION: TAMPA BAY AND STATE; TAMPA TODAY

TYPE: DIGEST

                    Copyright 1996 Times Publishing Company


                              107 of 187 DOCUMENTS

                         St. Petersburg Times (Florida)

                    February 11, 1996, Sunday, City Edition

Voters want crackdown on immigration

BYLINE: DAVID ADAMS

SECTION: NATIONAL; VOICES OF FLORIDA; Pg. 1A

LENGTH: 1352 words



Dr. Kenneth Becker tells his students it isn't easy to become an American.  But
he is happy to show them how.

Nighttime citizenship classes are free at Hialeah adult education center,  in
the heart of Miami's most densely populated Hispanic neighborhood.

Immigrants are signing up for the 72-hour course in record numbers.  Provided
they have been legal residents for more than five years, and can pass  a written
test, they soon will be eligible for a U.S. passport.

"These are hard-working, good people. They want to live the American  Dream, and
that's good for America," says Becker, who is the assistant night  principal.

Or is it?

Not according to Jesus Diaz, 59, who lives a few blocks away. When he came  from
Cuba 36 years ago he says immigrants had a tougher time. There were fewer
benefits and you had to work hard.

"Every day it's getting worse and worse. The people who come now don't  want to
work. They only come to have fun, drink, steal and cheat the welfare  system,"
he says. "I feel sorry for the Americans who were born here. They  are becoming
an extinct species."

The immigration debate is almost as old as the nation. But not since the  1980
Mariel boat lift, which brought 125,000 Cubans to Florida, has it been so  hotly
disputed across the state.

A Voices of Florida poll last fall found that an overwhelming majority of
registered Florida voters - even Hispanic and foreign-born residents such as
Diaz - consider immigration to be a problem. The poll revealed that a majority
of voters favor tough measures to crack down on illegal immigration by denying
access to public services such as health care and education. Voters also  demand
that all government workers be required to speak and write  comprehensible
English on the job.

The poll was based on interviews with registered voters across the state.  The
main purpose was to explore which issues are most important to voters as  the
next election cycle nears. The Voices of Florida coalition of six  newspapers,
11 television stations and public radio - including the Times,  WTSP-Ch. 10 and
WUSF-FM 89.7 - are working together to focus on these issues.

In dozens of follow-up interviews conducted in January across the state,  from
Jacksonville to Tampa Bay to Miami, voters were asked to explain their
attitudes. While not a scientific survey, their answers help explain why
immigration has become such a contentious issue. It also reveals how the  debate
is lacking solid facts, with attitudes often determined by emotions and
personal experiences.

Some Floridians such as Becker still believe in immigration as a pillar of
American values, the melting pot that gives society its diversity and  vitality.
Most of those interviewed, though, say they believe America is being  overrun by
immigrants. If something isn't done, before long the melting pot is  going to
reach meltdown.

Many expressed strong support for tighter border controls to stop illegal
immigrants entering the country, as well as measures to limit legal
immigration. They complain that the federal government has abdicated its
responsibility, leaving a system open to abuse and out of control. Immigrants
are perceived to be over-crowding public schools and hospitals and responsible
for higher crime rates.

"It's a fear of the unknown," says Russell Bloom, refugee and immigrant
services program director for Lutheran Social Services in Jacksonville.

Despite slight regional variations, the Voices of Florida poll found that
opinions are broadly consistent across the state, even in the north where
communities have been far less affected by immigration.

"South Florida has the problem now, but we can feel it too," says  Jacksonville
surveyor Jeff Cavin. "It's creeping northward."

Far from being an economic burden, the refugees quickly become contributors  of
tax dollars, both on consumer products they purchase and through Social
Security deductions and income taxes, Bloom says. Ninety percent of the
refugees in his program find jobs within three months and usually buy their  own
home within two years. In fact, the Lutherans say job offers outnumber
available immigrants. The only complaint: Pay tends to be low, about the $ 4.25

 an hour minimum wage.

The Voices of Florida poll found that 85 percent of voters agreed it was a
problem that "immigrants work for lower wages and take jobs from American
workers." The economic effect of immigrants continues to surface as one of  the
strongest anti-immigration grievances.

"Sure, the Mexicans in the construction industry do good work," Cavin  says.
"But they are making only 50 to 70 percent of the going rate. Who else  is going
to work for that kind of money?"

Like many surveyed, Cavin suggests the system should be more selective,  with
would-be immigrants required to have skills and some knowledge of  English.
Illegal immigrants should be denied access to benefits and deported,  he says.

"We have to do something to make it less attractive to come here," Cavin  says.

Some, like Gary Schmitter of Zephyrhills in Pasco County, support far  harsher
measures to keep out illegal immigrants.

"How did the East Germans control their border?" says Schmitter, 51, who  moved
to Florida from Michigan after 30 years with General Motors. "They sat  on the
wall with machine guns."

Echoing a widespread perception that America has or soon will have more  people
than its economy, environment and society can reasonably accommodate,  many
Floridians argue that the economy should be given a chance to catch up  with the
rate of immigration.

A minority, albeit 44 percent of voters surveyed, think immigration should  be
halted for five years. Others say it should not be renewed until there is  zero
unemployment.

While immigration has yet to have had much of a direct effect on northern
Florida, it's a different story from Tampa southward. Polls show that the
retirement communities of southwest Florida are more concerned than any other
region about the effect of immigration.

As the frost line has moved farther south, the economy of central Florida  has
changed. Parts of what was once Florida cattle country have been taken  over by
the citrus industry, bringing with it large numbers of seasonal farm  laborers
from Mexico and Central America.

In DeSoto County, inland from Sarasota, the influx of migrant laborers has
strained the social and economic fabric. The county numbered just over 27,000
permanent residents in 1990. Since then an additional 23,000 Hispanics -  almost
all of them Mexican farm workers - have arrived.

Most of them work in the orange groves, and with millions of new trees  being
planted each year, state farming authorities estimate the migrant  population
will continue to grow.

In Arcadia, the county seat, local stores have welcomed the new business,  and
some new shops have opened. Town leaders say they are proud of the
revitalization of the historic town center.

Other members of the community, though, complain that the county school  system
and the local hospital are over-strained. They blame the migrants for a  rise in
crime and delinquency. The county Sheriff's Office says that's unfair.  Crime
inevitably goes up as the population increases.

"We're all immigrants, right!," says Hazel Summeralls, 36, a half-Irish,
half-Seminole waitress at Wheeler's cafe, the oldest in town. "There's plenty
of work for everyone in Arcadia. You just can't get the white guys to work in
the orange groves anymore."

She points out that Wheeler's was saved from closure in 1994 when it was  bought
by current owner Eddie Tang, an immigrant from Hong Kong.

Tang admits he worries about America's ability to absorb more foreigners.  "But
you have to give the Mexicans credit," he says.

"Without them coming to Arcadia and getting involved in the farm business,  it
would be awfully difficult for this town to survive."

MONDAY: Immigration issue "not really a winner" for Republican candidates.

LOAD-DATE: February 13, 1996

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: COLOR PHOTO, DAVID ADAMS; COLOR PHOTO, (3); Hazel Summeralls and Eddie
Tang; Russell Bloom; Jeff Cavin; Gary Schmitter

TYPE: SERIES

                    Copyright 1996 Times Publishing Company


                              108 of 187 DOCUMENTS

                         St. Petersburg Times (Florida)

                    February 16, 1996, Friday, City Edition

CFCC trustees pick interim president

SECTION: CITRUS TIMES; TIMES DIGEST; Correction; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 317 words

DATELINE: OCALA; LECANTO



The Central Florida Community College board of trustees this week appointed
James H. Hinson Jr. to the job of interim president. Hinson, who served as
president of Tallahassee Community College from 1983 until last year, will run
the college until the board picks a permanent replacement for William Campion,
who recently resigned. Hinson has been an educator since 1949 and his work
history reflects experience at every level of education. A Tennessee native,  he
began his career as a teacher and coach in Atlanta and has worked as an
elementary and high school principal, education laboratory director,
superintendent of schools for DeKalb County, Georgia, president of DeKalb
Community College and chancellor in the Virginia community college system. His
earned a bachelor's degree in humanities and economics from Oglethorpe
University. Hinson has a master's degree from Emory University and an  education
specialist degree and doctorate in administration from the  University of
Georgia.

Extra Citrus jail space

will house illegal immigrants

LECANTO - The first of what eventually could be 40 new inmates started  arriving
at the Citrus County Jail Wednesday. The inmates are illegal  immigrants whom
the U.S. Immigration and Naturalization Service are holding  pending
determination of their cases. Federal officials are paying $ 46 per day  for
each inmate. Of that, $ 42 goes to Corrections Corporation of America,  which
operates the jail on the county's behalf, and the rest goes to the  county. Some
24 inmates entered the jail Wednesday; there is room for as many  as 40,
officials say. They will be housed in a separate pod, away from the two  pods
for county inmates and the one pod for juvenile offenders.

Correction

Robert Zontini of Inverness is 59 years old. A story in Sunday's Times gave a
different age.

LOAD-DATE: February 16, 1996

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DISTRIBUTION: CITRUS TIMES

GRAPHIC: BLACK AND WHITE PHOTO, STEVE HASEL; Kathy Kelloway gets some help with
her homestead exemption filing from Dawn Baucom of the property appraiser's
office Wednesday in Inverness.

TYPE: DIGEST; CORRECTION

                    Copyright 1996 Times Publishing Company


                              109 of 187 DOCUMENTS

                         St. Petersburg Times (Florida)

               March 7, 1996, Thursday, 0 South Pinellas Edition

In Congress, rooting around the family tree

BYLINE: ELLEN DEBENPORT

SECTION: NATIONAL; Pg. 4A

LENGTH: 567 words



Rep. Mark Foley loves to tell the story of his grandmother who immigrated  from
Poland and worked as a motel maid to get her start in America.

She eventually became a citizen and sent a grandson to Congress. Foley, a  West
Palm Beach Republican, says his immigrant heritage gives him a  "passionate
respect for the freedom and liberties so many of us take for  granted."

He just doesn't think every baby born in America should automatically be a
citizen.

Heart-warming immigration stories are in vogue in Congress this month as
members begin serious work on two measures that would cut the number of
immigrants allowed into the United States legally.

The Senate Judiciary Committee today will take up an enormous
immigration-reform bill proposed by Sen. Alan Simpson, R-Wyo., which has drawn
screams of protest from immigration groups, free marketeers and the business
community.

A similar bill by Rep. Lamar Smith, R-Texas, is to reach the House floor in  a
couple of weeks.

The issue is "very solidly based on emotionalism," said Sen. Arlen  Specter,
R-Pa. "It's based on our parents and grandparents, and it is what  has made our
country great."

Specter waxed nostalgic about Pvt. Harry Specter, his father, who came from
Ukraine at age 18, fought in World War I for the United States and carried
shrapnel wounds on his legs the rest of his life. He settled in Russell, Kan.,
and ran a junkyard.

The Irish potato famine in the 1840s apparently is responsible for a number  of
other members of Congress being here.

Sen. Mike DeWine, R-Ohio, said his great-great-grandfather came from  Ireland on
a cattle boat. DeWine wants to let immigrants keep coming. "To  turn our back on
what history tells us about this country would be a very sad  event," he said.

But Sen. Dianne Feinstein, D-Calif., who serves with Specter and DeWine on  the
Senate committee considering immigration, says times have changed.

Her grandfather at age 14 stowed away on a ship to escape the pogroms in
Poland, she said. Her mother escaped the Bolsheviks, arriving in America with
no education, no money and very little English.

"They produced a U.S. senator," she said.

Yet nearly 40 percent of America's modern-day immigrants live in  California,
her state, with another 3.7-million waiting for visas. Feinstein  said
immigrants are more likely to live in poverty, more likely to need public  aid
and less likely to have health insurance.

"People are coming in too fast to be able to provide the job  opportunities, the
homes and the education," she said.

The United States admits about 800,000 immigrants a year legally. In raw
numbers, that's about the same as were being admitted at the turn of the
century, but it is a much smaller percentage of the population now.

Another 300,000 immigrants are believed to settle illegally in the United
States each year. The House and Senate bills attempt to stop that.

A few immigrant citizens serve in Congress, including the two Miami  Republicans
who were born in Havana, Ileana Ros-Lehtinen and Lincoln  Diaz-Balart.

But there's no clue to the ancestry of Simpson and Smith, the sponsors of  the
bills causing so much fuss. Simpson brags that his father and grandfather  were
Wyoming lawyers, but he doesn't go back any further. Smith would say only  that
he's a fifth-generation Texas rancher.

LOAD-DATE: March 7, 1996

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                    Copyright 1996 Times Publishing Company


                              110 of 187 DOCUMENTS

                         St. Petersburg Times (Florida)

               April 6, 1996, Saturday, 0 South Pinellas Edition

Videotape of beating isn't just one image

BYLINE: DAVID ADAMS

SECTION: NATIONAL; Pg. 1A

LENGTH: 1386 words

DATELINE: MIAMI



Everyone who watches the news has seen the video.

A speeding pickup carrying a score of illegal Mexican immigrants weaves in  and
out of traffic on a Southern California highway, with sheriff's deputies  in
pursuit.

The pickup halts by the side of the road. And the immigrants scatter, all
except two, a woman and her boyfriend, who are trapped by two deputies and
beaten with nightsticks.

Everyone views the same video, but in racially torn California, different
people see different things in it.

Focusing on the beatings, Hispanic civil rights activists say the action of  the
deputies is symbolic of a disturbing pattern of abuse against illegal
immigrants.

According to this version, the clubbing was the direct result of a  crescendo of
anti-immigrant sentiment in the United States, fueled by  political campaigns in
the run-up to November's presidential election.

But immigration critics say the spotlight should shine on the events taped
before the beating: the car chase.

The victims of Monday's attack deserve no sympathy, goes this version.  "They
are not heroes, they are common criminals," says Barbara Coe of the  Coalition
for Immigration Reform, referring to the two Mexicans who were  beaten.

Virtually ignoring the force used by the deputies, this interpretation  turns on
the notion that there would have been no violence if the Mexicans had  not tried
to enter the country illegally and then dodge the police.

The car chase, which lasted 80 miles, reached speeds of up to 100 mph, the
pickup swerving dangerously between vehicles traveling on a busy interstate.
Witnesses have alleged that the passengers threw beer cans at pursuing patrol
cars.

Some defenders of California police agencies have blamed the incident on  the
irresistible effect of adrenaline on officers involved in high-speed  chases.

It is dubbed "high-speed pursuit syndrome" by some, although California
commentators mockingly refer to it as "mad-cop disease."

Hispanic community leaders reject such theories. "They are officers who  are
professionals who are supposed to be trained to be able to control their
emotions and their adrenaline," said Luis Carrillo of the Mexican-Cuban  Lawyers
Association.

Instead, civil rights groups in California say the case of the two Mexicans  is
typical of a growing list of abuses committed along the border. The only
difference this time was that it was caught on film.

Hispanic leaders have called on U.S. Attorney General Janet Reno to create  a
national task force to investigate the beating and to deter

mine whether there is a pattern of such conduct by Southern California law
enforcement officials.

Recent studies have documented dozens of cases of abuse.

In an April 1995 report titled "Crossing the Line," the New York-based  group
Human Rights Watch alleged that Border Patrol agents "engage in "Wild  West'
behavior entirely inappropriate for a professional, federal law  enforcement
agency."

The group said that a series of unpunished incidents - including three
shootings, 16 beatings and one rape - indicated agents were being allowed to
commit abuses with impunity by the Immigration and Naturalization Service,
which had failed to provide sufficient training and supervision, "virtually
guaranteeing future abuses."

The rights groups recognize that the job of a Border Patrol agent is  difficult
and frustrating because many illegal immigrants who are detained and  returned
to Mexico often re-enter the United States.

"Unfortunately, the frustration that this apparent futility causes is  often
taken out on the persons apprehended," said Human Rights Watch.

Such abuse is inexcusable, the group added, "particularly when one  considers
that the vast majority of individuals apprehended are not suspects  in violent
crimes but simply people looking for work."

Ironically, after having been beaten, the two Mexicans, Enrique Funes and
Alicia Sotero, may have discovered a painful new way of securing a work  permit.
They could also win the jackpot, after lawyers filed a $ 10-million  lawsuit on
their behalf.

Watching events from a nervous distance are the governments of Mexico and  the
United States. They share a common view, seeing only a problem they hope  will
go away quickly before any more damage is done to already battered  cross-border
relations.

That's unlikely. Newspapers in Mexico this week ran stories and photographs
across their front pages while television networks broadcast the video
repeatedly. Fearing protests - which never materialized - police posted extra
riot police around the U.S. Embassy.

Officials from both countries were privately grateful that the Easter  holidays
are so religiously observed in Mexico, where offices were closed all  week.

Relations between the United States and Mexico have been on the slide for  some
time after passing a high point in 1994 with the North American Free  Trade
Agreement.

The taped beating joins a growing list of disputes, including alleged  dumping
of cheap Mexican tomatoes in the U.S. market, drug trafficking,  cross-border
trucking regulations and trade with Cuba.

Mexicans take special offense to the current debate over cutting public
services to illegal immigrants, as well as frequent criticism of Mexican trade
and immigration by American politicians.

Many Mexicans were surprised to see police in the United States behave in a
manner more associated with their own authorities.

Mexican police have been widely accused of using brutal interrogation
techniques, often against immigrants from Central America trying to cross the
country's southern border.

"It was a shock. I thought there the police were supposed to be more  upright,"
Mexico City taco vendor Manuel Cardenas told Reuters.

Mexico's foreign ministry expressed "profound concern" over the beating,  and
the country's National Human Rights Commission said the incident  demonstrated
"racist and xenophobic attitudes" in the United States.

But that was it.

With the Mexican economy struggling to climb out of a 15-month crisis and  its
future highly dependent on U.S. investors and government loans, analysts  say
Mexico is unlikely to take a stronger stance and risk angering the same  U.S.
administration that helped bail it out of its current crisis.

Mexico's economic crisis is also a headache for Washington. Nearly  2-million
Mexicans have been thrown out of work since a peso devaluation put  the economy
into a tailspin last year.

In response to the increased border flow - and political pressure - the  Clinton
administration recently approved the biggest budget increase in INS  history,
doubling the number of Border Patrol agents.

Now activists fear a current hiring frenzy will mean too many green  officers in
front-line jobs. "It's more than the agency can handle," said  Allyson Collins,
one of the authors of the Human Rights Watch report.

Some analysts warn that more "immigrant bashing" is inevitable.

The anti-immigrant campaigns of Gov. Pete Wilson and presidential candidate  Pat
Buchanan are creating a climate in California that encourages it.

It's a climate fostered by Proposition 187, the California initiative that
seeks to deny public services to illegal immigrants, as well as a proposal in
Congress to deny public education to the children of illegal immigrants.

"I think there is a connection between this type of (beating) action by  the
police and the immigration measures being discussed," said Max Castro, an
immigration expert at Miami University.

As more and more politicians join the anti-immigration movement, "it's  becoming
more and more legitimate to dump on these people," said Castro.

"The mainstream has shifted to a more extreme position and that percolates  all
the way down through society, including the police. It gives them a  license to
act this way."

But California supporters of Proposition 187 say frustration with illegal
immigrants is at a boiling point.

"There is going to be a civil war in Los Angeles," said Glenn Spencer who  heads
the group Voice of Citizens Together. "It's inevitable."

- Information from Reuters and the Associated Press was used in this story.

LOAD-DATE: April 8, 1996

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                    Copyright 1996 Times Publishing Company


                              111 of 187 DOCUMENTS

                         St. Petersburg Times (Florida)

                April 12, 1996, Friday, 0 South Pinellas Edition

Beating case shouldn't enrich illegal immigrants

SECTION: EDITORIAL; LETTERS; Pg. 15A

LENGTH: 1958 words



Re: the incident in which two illegal immigrants were beaten after a long
high-speed chase.

The deputies who did it clearly committed an egregious act. They should be
disciplined and/or punished as severely as the law allows. I don't understand
how they can be given essentially paid vacation while the incident is
investigated.

On the other hand, the FBI and others are looking into possible civil  rights
violation. I don't think the two illegal immigrants - or any illegal  immigrants
- should have any "civil rights" in this or any other matter.  There may be a
disciplinary and/or criminal issue with the deputies, but as  for the illegals,
we should take care of any emergency medical needs and then  send them back.

This may sound harsh, or be a "Catch-22" for illegal immigrants, but  logically,
don't illegal immigrants put themselves in this situation?

Ernie Lane, Safety Harbor

It is regrettable what happened to Enrique Funez and Leticia Gonzalez (the
illegal immigrants) in California. The officers involved should be punished to
the fullest extent of the law. High-speed pursuits, while necessary at times,
should not be used as an excuse to beat offenders. I do not buy this
"adrenaline-rush" defense. Police officers are required to keep a level  head.
They must do this in order to "defuse" potentially violent/dangerous
situations. They must protect and serve.

However, punishment of these officers will not be enough. The victims in  this
case will surely be "rewarded" for their pain and suffering. My  question
(comment) is, why should Enrique and Leticia gain financially for  breaking the
law? Most of the reports seem to be forgetting this. Why? Only in  America can
one be enriched for violating the law.

Punish the officers - fully. Pay hospitalization bills of the victims. Then
send them home.

Christopher M. Hoekzema, St. Petersburg

Frightening behavior

      The Pat Oliphant political cartoon on April 8, Open Season in  California,
made me pause to think about the pictures of the beating of the  immigrants that
were on your front page last week and the comments of those  approving of the
officers' actions.

True, we live in an increasingly violent society with a high crime rate.  I'm
sure there are many frustrations and terrible stress in police work. Does  that
justify the officers becoming not only the apprehenders, but also the  judge,
jury and instant executioners of any offense they deem punishable? Does  a badge
and uniform make them any different from a mob of vigilantes?

I would like to ask those who felt this is acceptable behavior for those  sworn
to uphold the law and protect us, who will protect us from our  protectors? "Oh,
it was only immigrants." Who is next? Scary, isn't it?

Madelyn Lawson, Clearwater

On the side of the police

      Just as in the Rodney King case, the video of the police beating of
several Mexicans on a California highway does not tell the whole story.
Commentators and newspaper reporters have told us that a car chase of speeds  up
to 100 miles per hour preceded the beating. Also, the dilapidated pickup  truck
had sideswiped two cars in attempts to divert the police.

The executive director of the California Immigrant Workers Association is
quoted as saying, "The pigs in uniform committed the real illegal act." I  guess
he thinks that illegal border crossing is okay, but arresting the border
crossers is not. I think you will find that when the entire truth is known,  the
American public will sympathize with the police.

I would very much like to know if the events preceding the beatings (i.e.,  the
100-mph chase and the sideswiping of the cars) are also on tape. If so,  will
they be shown? Probably not. They are not sensational enough. Also, they  might
provide reasons for the beatings.

The police were stupid to continue the beatings if they knew they were  being
taped. But I am still on their side in this dispute.

James V. Christy, Clearwater



Instead of condemning the officers in this case for brutality, we should be
commending them for their bravery.

America, you had better wake up and smell the coffee quick. If we continue  to
berate our men and women in blue for simply doing their jobs, it won't be  long
before officers across the country decide that the hazards involved with  their
profession are simply no longer worth it. If that should happen, the  next time
you call 911 in need of help, you may find out that there is none  available.
Then what?

Thomas A. Timcik, Seminole

Officer's suit is ill aimed

      Re: Police officer sues woman he saved, March 29.

I am appalled at Sgt. Mark Byers' attorney, Charles Morehead, blaming the
victim of domestic violence for Byers' injuries. Morehead stated that since  the
woman cheated on her husband, she created the potential for murder and, as  a
result, an officer was injured. Morehead is, in effect, saying the victim
controlled her husband's actions instead of the husband taking full
responsibility for what he had done. I wonder if Morehead would also say that
every husband who cheats on his wife creates the potential for murder. For  some
reason I doubt it.

This is just another example of male oppression and an attempt to keep  women in
their place. As Sgt. Byers stated, he saved her life that night  because it was
his job. It is unfortunate Byers was injured, but he needs to  focus his lawsuit
on the perpetrator, not the victim.

Rita Tomalin, Dunedin

Lenient sentence is contemptable

      Re: Woman who stole $ 61,000 gets mercy, April 4.

I would not call the sentence received by Mamie Hall mercy; I would call it
contempt - for the citizens whose taxes paid for this fraud; for the men,  women
and children who need state benefits and can't get them because of a
technicality which makes them ineligible; and even for the clients who do
commit fraud, who were not paid $ 21,000 annually by the state but have
minimum-wage jobs and didn't report the income so they could get "caught up"  on
expenses or pay for an old clunker to get them back and forth to the job.

Judge Frank White was concerned about what would happen to Hall's children  if
she went to prison. Did he wonder what kind of message he was sending her
children with this sentence? The message is "Crime pays."

Anyway, where do I stand in line to get my $ 61,000 interest-free loan from
Judge White?

Robert B. Fleming, St. Petersburg

         Did the judge listen? Mamie Hall stole $ 61,000 from the taxpayers of
Florida by creating false HRS cases of need and pocketing the money herself.
For over two years, her greed negated any example for good that she may have
shown her children, but now that she's been caught, she's concerned for them.
She has jeopardized the reputation of every honest HRS worker.

And yet, Judge Frank White did not listen to her admission of guilt, had no
concern for the stolen monies that probably will not be repaid by honest
employment (she took extra money as an HRS employee), threw out any semblance
of justice in not penalizing her for the crime she committed, and sent her out
- free to bilk another employer.

Justice calls for a more severe penalty. She is not a good example for her
children who now can believe that they can break the law and go free if you  get
the right judge.  Frances P. Lund, Gulfport

Festival campers deserve support

      Re: Festival campers draw complaints, March 17.

People fear the things they do not understand. They drive by the  Renaissance
Festival campground and see a lot of strange-looking people and a  collection of
aging vehicles. We are strange-looking to them because we are  largely
self-employed and the only "dress code" we have to follow is to be  in
appropriate costume on festival days. There are two reasons as to the older
vehicles. First, they are cost-effective and, second, they are easy to work  on.
Since we travel for a living, a reliable form of transportation is  paramount.

In general, we are far more intelligent and much better educated than the
average American population. We are self-reliant and a close-knit family. We
make our livings bringing happiness and diversion to our patrons' frequently
mundane existence. Causing problems for people would be counterproductive to
our way of life, and rare is the patron that I talk to in my shop who does not
envy our way of life.

As to the complaint about trash when we used to camp at the festival site -  in
years past I have worked for Mid-America Inc., cleaning up the grounds at  the
end of the festival run, and 99 percent of the trash I picked up was left  in
the parking lot by patrons. For the most part, when we leave an area, it is
cleaner than when we arrived.

It was suggested that we stay at "regular" campgrounds. Anything within a
reasonable distance from the site is incredibly expensive, and most of us  don't
make that kind of money.

So, for those of you who think we don't belong in your neighborhood, come  out
to the festival. Meet us, talk to us. We really are a genuinely nice bunch  of
people.

Mike S. Masta, Arlington, Texas

The suffering of the animals

      Re: Article on 4-H pig-raising.

As I read the March 27 story about the pig-raising program for the 4-H
children, I couldn't help but be saddened at the thought that we still live in
a world where innocent children are taught to accept and participate in having
a being they've grown to know and love sent off to have its throat cut. Almost
as horrible as the killing itself is the fact that they're being told it's  okay
because the pigs were raised to be food animals in the first place.

Intentionally inflicting pain, suffering and death on a living creature  when we
have the option not to do so for reasons other than self-defense or to
alleviate a greater suffering in that creature is wrong.

Just as we have in the past managed to broaden our compassion for others to
include other races, religions and nationalities, we will one day broaden it  to
include other species as well, and we'll wonder how in God's name something
like the pig-raising program was ever allowed to take place.

James E. Lewallen, Lutz

"Babe' deserved better

      Re: Steve Persall's March 29 Weekend column on the Academy Awards.

I couldn't agree more with Persall's assessment of the "same-old-story"  Best
Picture Academy Award winner. I, too, felt that Babe was far more  deserving - a
perfect gem of a picture in every way. In fact, I have been  lending my copy of
the tape to formerly scoffing co-workers, who now agree  that this "movie about
a pig" is a charmingly told story about life itself,  with the many
relationships and challenges we all encounter. Thanks, Steve,  for voicing your
support!

On the same subject of Academy Awards, I have long wondered how in the  world we
fanatic movie-lovers can ever get to see the various documentary and
short-subject films that are nominated annually. It is very frustrating to
listen to all the enthusiastic acceptance speeches, etc., while knowing we
local fans will never get to the films themselves! Perhaps Persall could
address this in a future column.

At any rate, thanks for the continued good information on the films as they
arrive in the area. I don't, of course, always agree with Persall's reviews,
but he was absolutely right about Babe!

Elaine Coffin, South Pasadena

LOAD-DATE: April 12, 1996

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: LETTER

                    Copyright 1996 Times Publishing Company


                              112 of 187 DOCUMENTS

                         St. Petersburg Times (Florida)

               June 22, 1996, Saturday, 0 South Pinellas Edition

INS district director bumped out of office

SECTION: CITY & STATE; AROUND THE STATE; Pg. 12B

LENGTH: 455 words

DATELINE: MIAMI



Miami immigration district director Dan Cadman, implicated in an elaborate
scheme to dupe a visiting congressional task force, has been recalled to
Washington and will be replaced by an acting administrator from Texas, the  U.S.
Immigration and Naturalization Service said Friday.

Beginning Monday, Cadman's job will be filled in an interim capacity by Bob
Wallace, the district director in Houston, an INS veteran.

Cadman, the powerful district director in Miami since early 1993, will be
assigned "non-supervisory" duties at INS headquarters pending a Department  of
Justice review of the allegations, said agency spokesman Paul Risley.

The announcement of the move came one day after the release of a scathing
report concluding that unnamed top agency officials released dozens of aliens
from the overcrowded Krome Detention Center and boosted staffing at  overwhelmed
Miami International Airport passport checkpoints.

The report said they were attempting to paint a rosy picture of INS  operations
in Miami for a congressional task force that visited in June 1995.

Girl won't be forced

to visit mother

   A girl now living in New York who had her throat slit and watched her
6-year-old sister die in Florida won't be forced to return today for a visit
with her mother, a New York judge ruled Friday.

The order by state Supreme Court Judge Donald Wisner effectively stays a
Florida court's ruling that required Sayeh Rivazfar, 16, and her 12-year-old
brother, Arash, to go to Florida for an eight-week stay with their mother, New
York Attorney General Dennis Vacco said Friday.

Sayeh, who lives with her father in Greece, a Rochester, N.Y., suburb, has  been
defying the Florida court order, saying she has nightmares about Florida.  She
has called her mother abusive and blames her mother, Pat Pafford, for not  doing
more to protect her and her sister, Sara.

Pafford's friend, Raymond Wike, abducted the sisters on Sept. 22, 1988,  from
their mother's apartment in Pensacola. He took them to some woods, where  he
repeatedly raped Sayeh, who was 8, and then slashed the girls' throats.

Sayeh feigned death and later escaped. Her sister died.

Bungled burglary

gets a thumb down

   MIAMI - As burglars go, this guy was all thumbs.

It started out as a break-in at an East Kendall apartment.

"He was going to steal a shotgun," said Metro-Dade detective Dorothy  Diaz. "The
gun was zippered up in a carrying case. As he put the gun down, it  fired.

"He shot off his thumb."

Rafael Santiago, 34, of Miami Beach, is recovering in the jail ward at  Jackson
Memorial Hospital. He is charged with armed burglary and grand theft.

LOAD-DATE: June 24, 1996

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DISTRIBUTION: CITY & STATE; METRO & STATE; TAMPA & STATE

TYPE: DIGEST

                    Copyright 1996 Times Publishing Company


                              113 of 187 DOCUMENTS

                         St. Petersburg Times (Florida)

                    January 10, 1989, Tuesday, City Edition

Cubans kept from returning to U.S. after trip to Canada

SECTION: NATIONAL; News of Canada; Pg. 6A

LENGTH: 204 words

DATELINE: NIAGARA FALLS, Ontario; UNITED NATIONS



NIAGARA FALLS, Ontario - American officials have refused to allow a    Cuban
family back into the United States after they entered Canada    because of
doubts about their refugee status, a U.S. official said.

 Immigration officials stopped Carlos Fajardo, his wife and her two    children
Dec. 24 at the Rainbow Bridge in Niagara Falls when they    attempted to return
to the United States.  Fajardo said the family    crossed the border "for 20
minutes" to see the falls from the    Canadian side. But none of the four could
prove they had U.S.    citizenship, Benedict Ferro, a U.S. immigration official,
said Sunday.

 Fajardo emigrated from Cuba to Miami four years ago.



 Canada pays its U.N. dues

 UNITED NATIONS - Canada, which began a two-year term on the Security    Council
on Jan. 1, has paid in full its 1989 U.N. dues of just more    than $
23-million, a U.N. spokesman said Monday. "That makes Canada,    with the five
Nordic countries, among the first six states who have    paid their full
contribution to the budget in 1989," the spokesman    added. Denmark, Finland,
Iceland, Norway and Sweden paid their dues    last week.



LOAD-DATE: November 9, 1992

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: DIGEST

                            Times Publishing Company


                              114 of 187 DOCUMENTS

                         St. Petersburg Times (Florida)

                     January 22, 1989, Sunday, City Edition

Economic crisis fuels new exodus from Nicaragua

BYLINE: ROBERT COLLIER

SECTION: NATIONAL; Pg. 2A

LENGTH: 1054 words

DATELINE: MANAGUA, Nicaragua



MANAGUA, Nicaragua - These are hard times in Nicaragua, and its    people are
leaving for a better life elsewhere in numbers unequaled    since the 1979
revolution, perhaps ever.

     With even Sandinista government officials admitting that the    economy
will worsen considerably this year, just about everyone here    expects the wave
of emigration to grow.

     Sitting in the Aguila del Sur travel agency, Marlene Fonseca said    she is
ready to join the crowds heading north. She had just bought a    ticket for
herself and her 5-year-old daughter on the bus leaving today    for the Texas
border.

     "Things are just so bad here," she said. "I don't mind being    poor, but
everything is just getting worse, and everything is going    down . . . and
there's no hope here for Jessica," she said, motioning    to her daughter.

     Hundreds of Nicaraguans like Fonseca have deluged Miami in recent    days,
ever since a federal judge in Brownsville, Texas, ordered last    Monday that
border guards in the area had to stop restricting    immigrants to the area near
the Mexican frontier.

     The influx has overwhelmed Miami's ability to deal with refugees.

 Many speculate that the new wave of Latin immigrants was in part    responsible
for violence in Miami's black community last week.

     Fonseca's husband left Nicaragua two years ago, and recently sent    home
from Miami the money for she and her child to join him.

     From Managua, the bus most immigrants take goes to Guatemala, the    only
nation in Central America that does not require entry visas for    Nicaraguans.

     Going through Honduras, a Honduran army soldier boards the bus and    rides
it until arrival at the Guatemala border to prevent any riders    from getting
off.

     In addition to 10,000 Nicaraguan Contra rebels, Honduras already    has
some 100,000 Nicaraguan refugees. Honduras has enough problems and    doesn't
want more hungry people.

     From Guatemala, the bus is taken over by a man known in the trade    as the
"coyote." He is the guide who will take the refugees through    Mexico and
deposit them at an isolated spot on the banks of the Rio    Grande in view of
Texas. After that, it's up to them to wade across and    climb the fence to the
United States.

     That may not sound like much of a trip for the $ 950 or so it costs,    but
it has made the travel agency business one of the few booming    sectors in
Nicaragua's otherwise crumbling economy.

     Last year, the number of travel agencies in Managua that specialize    in
taking Nicaraguans north to the United States mushroomed from 10 to    about 70.


     "It's a good business," said Elena Aguilar, owner of the Aguila    del Sur
agency. She said her biweekly buses each carry about 30    customers north.

     She started the business on a shoestring eight months ago. When    asked if
she plans to join her customers some day in the trek north,    she smiled and
said, "Next year. I've already sent most of my family.

 But I'm only going when I have saved up enough. . . . It's kind of    funny,
isn't it - I'm making more money here than they are in Miami."

     But if the rumors here are true, she may have to go earlier.

 Guatemala, it is rumored, is planning to require entry visas for all
Nicaraguans. That would rob the agencies of the badly needed way    station en
route to Texas. Aguilar predicts that much of the Nicaraguan    emigration
traffic will be shut down as a result.

     As usually happens in such circumstances, the rumors have triggered    a
rush to the travel agents.

     Oddly enough, Nicaragua's leftist Sandinista government poses no    real
obstacles to emigration. Except for few abortive attempts in    previous years
to slow the paperwork process, and negative reporting by    the government media
of exiles' problems in the United States, the    Sandinistas have never tried to
stop the flow of people heading for the    capitalist life to the north.

     Perhaps one reason for that is that the exiles send back an    estimated $
60-million a year to relatives in Nicaragua - a figure equal    to one-third of
the nation's total exports. But rather than being a    boost to the economy,
much of the money is used by those relatives to    finance their own departure
from the country.

     While nobody has exact figures, it is estimated that more than    500,000
Nicaraguans have left the country since the 1979 Sandinista    revolution. More
than 40,000 left in 1988 alone. Most of those who    leave have settled, legally
or otherwise, in neighboring Honduras and    Costa Rica.

     The first wave of emigration occurred came just after the    revolution and
was made up mostly of wealthy landowners and officials    of the
pre-revolutionary Somoza dictatorship. In the early and    mid-1980s, a second
wave began of professionals and smaller landowners    from areas where fighting
was fierce in the war against U.S.-backed    Contra rebels.

     A third wave - this time including many poor Nicaraguans - has been
under way for almost two years, spurred by the country's economic    collapse.

     Last year inflation hit an unbelievable 23,000 percent. For an    average
worker that translates this way: The average daily wage now    buys only two
eggs or one quart of milk. In 1979, a day's pay bought 30    eggs or 12 quarts
of milk. To deal with that kind of inflation and    handle the costs, the
government laid off 20,000 workers. The crisis is    expected to get even worse
this year.

     With little international aid arriving to help Nicaragua rebuild,    many
Sandinistas and Western diplomats expect a further increase in the    rate of
inflation and more government layoffs.

     Economists estimate that the Nicaraguan standard of living has    shrunk to
pre-World War II levels.

     "I would like to stay, but there is nothing here," said    exile-to-be
Marlene Fonseca. "Nicaragua is going to pieces, and it's    sad."



LOAD-DATE: November 9, 1992

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: BLACK AND WHITE PHOTO; Nicaraguans gather at a private shelter in Miami

                            Times Publishing Company


                              115 of 187 DOCUMENTS

                         St. Petersburg Times (Florida)

                     January 22, 1989, Sunday, City Edition

More immigrants, sluggish growth

BYLINE: MARLENE SOKOL

SECTION: BUSINESS; BUSINESS PREVIEW 89; Pg. 10I

LENGTH: 604 words



The economic trends that have carried South Florida through the 1980s    have
suddenly speeded up, making 1989 look like a year of massive    immigration and
stagnant economic growth.

     Boatloads of Haitians and busloads of Nicaraguans are showing up in
record numbers. As many as 300 Nicaraguans arrive each week, some    sleeping in
sports stadiums and others doubling up with relatives in    the overcrowded
suburb of Sweetwater. In recent weeks, the U.S. Coast    Guard has intercepted
hundreds of Haitians; no one knows how many have    sneaked into the city
unnoticed.

     It is unclear how the city will absorb these new refugees, many
unskilled and unemployed. Despite some growth in the apparel and    fabricated
metal industries, there is little net job growth, if any.

     "I sort of see us leveling our growth rate to about 1.5 percent in    jobs
in Miami," says John Cordrey, an analyst with the Beacon Council,    Dade
County's economic development agency. "It's still up, but it's    not up as much
as it had been around 1985 and 1986."

     Eastern Airlines, which has reduced its work force from 42,000 to    30,000
since it was taken over by Frank Lorenzo three years ago, is    still fighting
in court to lay off workers and shut down unprofitable    routes. And there is
still the ever-present threat of a strike.

     "Eastern is our biggest cloud," says Cordrey. "We would lose a    large
portion of our executive-type jobs."

     Two of the county's other big companies also face uncertainty under    new
corporate ownership - the Burger King restaurant chain, purchased    as part of
the Pillsbury takeover by British Grand Metropolitan PLC,    and Burdines
department stores, now owned by Canadian developer Robert    Campeau.

     The Miami News, the city's second-largest daily newspaper, folded    on New
Year's Eve.

     As in past years, the business growth is occurring north of the    Dade
County line, in Broward County. Workers are about to break ground    on a
150,000-square-foot convention center near Port Everglades. Plans    are also
under way to build an extension of the Cleveland Clinic near    Weston.

     Broward County is attracting several banking operations offices,
including a BankAtlantic facility in Coral Springs and a CenTrust    center in
Miramar, says James Garver, president of the Broward Economic    Development
Board. About 35 percent of the new business in Broward has    moved from
crime-plagued Dade, Garver says.

     Business leaders in both communities are pinning their hopes on    tourism
this year.

     "We think that the tourism sector will be our growth sector,"    says
Cordrey. "The American dollar is still a good buy for    Europeans."

     The 1989 calendar is loaded with high-attendance events, starting    with
the Super Bowl today and ending with the Breeders' Cup horse race    in
November. But there is no telling how the tourist industry will be    affected
by last week's race riots in Miami's Overtown and Liberty    City neighborhoods.


     Spring Break, which used to be one of Broward's strongest    money-earners
before the county began a couple of years ago to    discourage the flocks of
teen-agers, is slowing down to a trickle.

     "There still will be a bunch of kids here, but the emphasis this    year
will be on the family," Garver said. "Personally, I hope the      kids go to
Daytona Beach."



LOAD-DATE: November 9, 1992

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: SPECIAL SECTION

                            Times Publishing Company


                              116 of 187 DOCUMENTS

                         St. Petersburg Times (Florida)

                    February 7, 1989, Tuesday, City Edition

Open arms; ticket home // Hispanics, Haitians get different U.S. treatment

BYLINE: BARRY KLEIN

SECTION: NATIONAL; Pg. 1A

LENGTH: 1411 words

DATELINE: MIAMI



MIAMI - The Rev. Gerard Jean-Juste says the resentment boiling    through this
city's large Haitian community is easy to understand once    you compare the way
government officials here recently greeted two    different groups of refugees.

     The first group was thousands of Nicaraguans fleeing the Sandinista
regime. Many had no place to sleep in Miami, so city officials    converted a
baseball stadium into a temporary shelter. Many wanted work    permits, so the
city manager flew to Washington to lobby on their    behalf. The city even set
up an employment office inside the stadium to    help the illegal aliens find
jobs.

     The second group was 148 Haitians who fled their island nation in a
rickety sailboat. The boat was less than seven miles from Miami Beach    when it
was intercepted last week by the Coast Guard. U.S. Immigration    officials
offered the refugees food, medical treatment and a one-way    ticket back home.
The Haitians were not allowed to step foot on U.S.    soil.

     Jean-Juste, director of Miami's Haitian Refugee Center, calls that
treatment discriminatory.

     "U.S. immigration policy clearly favors lighter-skinned Hispanics    over
black-skinned Haitians," says Jean-Juste, one of an estimated    75,000 Haitians
who live in Dade and Broward counties. "There is    little sensitivity for
people who do not speak with a Spanish accent."

     That sentiment is being echoed by many of this city's American-born
blacks. They believe the thousands of Hispanic refugees flooding South
Florida are taking away jobs that rightfully belong to them. Many    believe the
racial violence that recently rocked Overtown and Liberty    City was fueled by
resentment toward those refugees and by the belief    that a local government
dominated by Hispanics pays little attention to    black concerns.

     "There is a belief that Hispanics receive preferential treatment    ... and
it has created considerable tension," says Marvin Dunn, a    black psychologist
who co-authored a study on the 1980 Liberty City    riot.

     "We think there is a double standard, and it must stop," says    state Sen.
Carrie Meek, one of Miami's most powerful black officials.

     Hispanic officials deny that they discriminate against blacks or
Haitians. If there are inequities, says City Manager Cesar Odio, they    are the
result of federal immigration policies.

     Immigration officials say they are just following the laws    established
by Congress.

     "The result may not seem fair when you compare Haitians to    Nicaraguans
... but it's still the law," says Richard B. Smith, the    Immigration and
Naturalization Service (INS) deputy district director    in Miami.

 A tangled thicket

   Here's what that comparison shows:        From 1985 through 1988, according
to INS statistics, only 12 of the    1,196 Haitians who applied for political
asylum in the United States    were awarded that status. That amounts to about 1
percent.

     During that same time period, almost 15 percent of the 41,683
Nicaraguans who applied for political asylum received it. In other    words,
Nicaraguan refugees were about 15 times more likely to receive    asylum than
their Haitian counterparts.

     Those numbers do not include thousands of refugees from both    countries
who are living here illegally or who were granted legal    status under a
one-time amnesty program offered last year.

     But the numbers do reflect a gross disparity. The explanation for    that
disparity, says Smith, can be found in the tangled thicket of laws    and
guidelines that regulate legal access to U.S. borders.

     Here's how the system works:        In order to qualify for asylum, a
refugee must be able to prove a    "well-founded fear of political persecution."

 It's not enough to be    fleeing the economic repression of Haiti and
Nicaragua, two of the    poorest nations in the Western Hemisphere.

 'It's extremely difficult'

   Nicaraguan refugees have an easier time meeting that requirement    than
Haitians, Smith said. Despite Haiti's long history of political    repression,
the U.S. government maintains formal diplomatic relations    with the
authoritarian regime that runs the country. The United States    " for several
years financed a covert war against Nicaragua's Sandinista    government.

     "It's extremely difficult for an individual from a nation that is
considered friendly to the U.S. to receive political asylum," Smith    says.

     That doesn't mean it can't be done. If a Haitian refugee has    witnesses
to political persecution - or can provide press clippings    that show the same
- "he will get strong consideration," Smith said.

     Another problem for Haitian refugees is geographic. Because Haiti    is an
island, most refugees flee either by boat or by air, which means    they are
usually caught before they actually make it onto U.S. soil. As    a result, they
are subject to "exclusion" rather than    "deportation." It's an important
distinction.

     Under exclusion laws, refugees must prove they have a legal right    to
enter the United States. If they can't, they are either imprisoned    or
immediately sent back to their home country.

     Most Nicaraguans enter the United States on foot, which means those    who
are caught are already on U.S. soil. As a result, they are subject    to
deportation rather than exclusion.

     Under deportation laws, the burden of proof is on the government    rather
than the refugee. Deportation proceedings often last for years    and provide
refugees with a greater chance of remaining in the United    States.

     "It's a strange process," says Smith, "but that's the way it    works."

     The Rev. Thomas Wenski is pastor at Notre Dame d'Haiti Roman    Catholic
Church, a handsome building located in the heart of Miami's    Little Haiti, the
largest Haitian community in the United States south    of New York.

     The community is filled with small shops and rundown apartments    that are
hopelessly overcrowded. Unemployment is common in Little    Haiti. So is
resentment.

     "Most of the people who live here don't begrudge the Nicaraguans    what
they get," says Wenski. "They just want the same."

     Most experts believe Haitians will have a harder time succeeding in
South Florida than the Cubans who preceded them.

     Many of the Cubans who arrived soon after Fidel Castro consolidated
power in the early 1960s were well-educated and had marketable skills.

 They helped ease the transition for the hundreds of thousands of Cubans    who
arrived here in the 1970s and 1980s.

     That transition was so successful that there are many parts of Dade
County where a knowledge of English is not a requirement for success.

     "Many of us speak only Creole," said Michel Dernessie, a Haitian    who
arrived in Miami five years ago. "One cannot succeed speaking only    Creole."

     (The Creole language spoken by Haitians is French-based, with    African,
English and Spanish influences.)
Wenski says little will change until the Haitians living in South    Florida
acquire political power.

     "It's easy to pick on Haitians because they aren't a constituency    that
matters to politicians ... especially the Republicans in    Washington," he
says. "We're talking about a few thousand Haitians    compared to hundreds of
thousands of Central Americans and Cubans."

     Haitians have one champion in Washington. U.S. Rep. Claude Pepper,    whose
district includes Little Haiti, introduced a bill last week that    would
require Coast Guard vessels intercepting Haitians at sea to bring    the
refugees to land for immigration interviews. Pepper said interviews    at sea
had the potential to become "kangaroo courts."

     Dernessie likes that idea.

     "Immigration can be very frightening," he says. "It is hard to    come
somewhere new."



LOAD-DATE: November 9, 1992

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: BLACK AND WHITE GRAPH, Trich Redman; BLACK AND WHITE PHOTO, Associated
Press; A composite of 2 graphs and 1 map, showing locations of countries, the
number in thousands of Haitians stopped by the Coast Guard from 1981 through
1988 and a comparison of the Haitians and Nicaraguans as to who applied for
asylum and who received it from 1985 through 1988; A U.S. Coast Guard boat
intercepting a wooden boat packed with 148 Haitians who were not allowed on U.S.
soil.

                            Times Publishing Company


                              117 of 187 DOCUMENTS

                         St. Petersburg Times (Florida)

                   February 8, 1989, Wednesday, City Edition

Restore aid for refugees

SECTION: EDITORIAL; EDITORIALS; Pg. 14A

LENGTH: 533 words



Last year the federal Office of Refugee Resettlement gave Florida    more than $
16.7-million to help underwrite basic services for refugees.

 This year, the federal government announced recently, Florida's share    will
drop by more than $ 3-million. Next year, Florida won't get    anything.

     It is impossible to understand how federal authorities can make    such a
judgment, given that an estimated 6,600 aliens have settled in    South Florida
communities within the last six months alone. This year,    immigration
officials say, some 100,000 more are expected - and that's    just from
Nicaragua. Then there are the 3,000 political prisoners    expected from Cuba,
the Haitians who come by boat, the unknown number    of aliens seeking asylum in
Texas who may take advantage of a    three-week grace period to travel to
Florida. For a variety of reasons,    many immigrants who visit South Florida
want to stay here.

     Sen. Bob Graham pointed out these details and much more in a letter    he
fired off recently to the Family Support Administration of the    Department of
Health and Human Services. Labeling the proposal to cut    aid "unconscionable"
and "ill-advised,' Graham explained that such a    move would cause immediate
hardship for communities in Hillsborough,    Broward, Dade and Palm Beach
counties. These counties now use the    federal money to help mainstream
eligible refugees by providing health    care, day care, employment, education
and mental health services.

     Oddly enough, most of the newly arrived immigrants are not eligible    for
federal assistance. Although most arrive penniless, under difficult
circumstances, they are not technically considered refugees. So while    they
continue to pour into South Florida - and stay here - immigration    authorities
don't count them when tallying the impact of resettlement    on targeted states.


     Nancy Wittenberg, refugee program administrator for the Florida
Department of Health and Rehabilitative Services, says she hopes    immigration
authorities will take a look at the broader immigration    picture. "We do want
them to understand that we are communities under    stress from immigration
problems," she says.

     The orderly assimilation of such large numbers of newcomers cannot    be
accomplished without these support services. As Graham observed, the    federal
government should not make immigration decisions and then deny    responsibility
for the outcome, leaving local communities to manage the    consequences as best
they can.

     "Immigration control is a federal responsibility," Graham    stressed.
"Accordingly, any costs to local communities associated with    foreign policy
decisions or a failure to control U.S. borders should be    borne by the federal
government."

     If this sounds unfriendly to refugees, it isn't. Federal    authorities
aren't doing these vulnerable families and individuals any    favors by allowing
them to enter the United States and then abandoning    them to fend for
themselves.



LOAD-DATE: November 9, 1992

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: EDITORIAL

                            Times Publishing Company


                              118 of 187 DOCUMENTS

                         St. Petersburg Times (Florida)

                      March 17, 1989, Friday, City Edition

Immigration woes cast shadow on St. Patrick's Day for some

SECTION: NATIONAL; TIMES DIGEST; Pg. 1A

LENGTH: 111 words

DATELINE: BOSTON



BOSTON - As Boston rolled out a green carpet for St. Patrick's Day,    some
Irish natives were grappling with immigration woes and a feeling    v v that
America has not been very hospitable of late. "With all the Irish    names and
the festivities and the shamrocks and shillelaghs, I find it    ironic that
Irish people are living in the shadows," John Dillon, a    spokesman for the
Irish Immigration Reform Movement, said Thursday. As    Bostonians prepared
green beer and green bagels, the Immigration and    Naturalization Service
raided four firms suspected of employing illegal    aliens and arrested 10 Irish
natives.




LOAD-DATE: November 9, 1992

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: DIGEST

                            Times Publishing Company


                              119 of 187 DOCUMENTS

                         St. Petersburg Times (Florida)

                     March 25, 1989, Saturday, City Edition

Senators urge Bush not to cut refugee aid

SECTION: TAMPA BAY AND STATE; Pg. 2B

LENGTH: 238 words

DATELINE: MIAMI



MIAMI - Florida's senators Friday urged the Bush administration not to    follow
through with a plan to slash federal funds for areas burdened by    refugees
covered by special U.S. immigration policies.

     The potential loss of $ 3.3-million in refugees funds "would have a
disastrous effect" on Florida, which has absorbed thousands of Central
Americans in recent months in the latest wave of refugees, according to    a
letter signed by Sens. Bob Graham and Connie Mack.

     The letter states that South Florida schools and social services    are
especially strained by the influx of Central Americans, many of    whom are
granted political asylum status.

     Last year, Dade, Broward, Palm Beach and Hillsborough counties    received
$ 16.8-million in federal aid for education and health services    for the new
refugees and Cuban and Haitian immigrants.

     A decision by the Bush administration is expected next week.

     Graham, a Democrat, filed a bill Feb. 23 that would allow the U.S.
attorney to release up to $ 20-million in refugee aid without declaring    an
emergency. Mack, a Republican, was a co-sponsor.

     The bill has also been co-sponsored by Sens. Lloyd Bentsen and Phil
Graham of Texas and Sens. Alan Cranston and Pete Wilson of California.

 Both states have significant numbers of refugees.



LOAD-DATE: November 9, 1992

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DISTRIBUTION: TAMPA BAY AND STATE

                            Times Publishing Company


                              120 of 187 DOCUMENTS

                         St. Petersburg Times (Florida)

                     April 6, 1989, Thursday, City Edition

Clearance sought for immigrants

SECTION: NATIONAL; WORLD DIGEST; Pg. 16A

LENGTH: 449 words

DATELINE: WASHINGTON; STOCKHOLM, Sweden; ROME



WASHINGTON - The Bush administration asked Congress on Wednesday to    permit as
many as 150,000 additional immigrants, many of them from the    Soviet Union, to
enter the United States over the next five years.

 Administration officials said the proposal was the result of a flood of
Soviet Jews and Armenians seeking to leave their homeland under    Moscow's
newly relaxed exit policies. The Immigration and    Naturalization Service said
the first beneficiaries of the proposal    would include about 19,000 Soviet
citizens. The favoritism toward    people coming from the Soviet Union has drawn
criticism from some    groups concerned about the plight of thousands of Asians
and Latin    Americans who have been denied legal entry.



 Airlines receive terrorist threat

 STOCKHOLM, Sweden - Scandinavian airlines were put on a security alert    after
Arab terrorists threatened to hijack a jet or attack an airport    in the
region, an airline official said Wednesday. Scandinavian    Airlines System,
which is owned by the governments of Sweden, Norway    and Denmark, received the
threat Tuesday. "It's apparently a general    threat against planes and airports
in all Scandinavian countries,"    spokeswoman Carina Sandefjord said.



 Charges imminent in Palme killing

 STOCKHOLM, Sweden - A Swedish state prosecutor said Wednesday that a
42-year-old man will be charged with the 1986 murder of Prime Minister    Olof
Palme. "Evidence against the suspect has . . . become    sufficiently strong,"
Prosecutor Axel Morath said. The suspect may not    be named publicly under
Swedish law.



 Bush to extend Panama sanctions

 WASHINGTON - President Bush will sign an executive order this week to    extend
economic sanctions against Panama for one year, administration    officials said
Wednesday. They said Bush might expand the sanctions if    the presidential
election scheduled in Panama for May 7 is fraudulent.

 The president will sign the renewal despite bitter complaints that the
sanctions hurt American business interests more than the government
controlled by Gen. Manuel Antonio Noriega.



 Fifteen countries listed as neediest

 ROME - The U.N. Food and Agriculture Organization says 15 developing

 countries require "exceptional or emergency assistance" to make up    for
serious food shortages. The agency listed the countries as Angola,
Bangladesh, Ethiopia, Haiti, Jamaica, Laos, Lebanon, Mozambique,    Nicaragua,
Peru, Sierra Leone, Somalia, Sri Lanka, Sudan and Vietnam.



LOAD-DATE: November 9, 1992

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: DIGEST

                            Times Publishing Company


                              121 of 187 DOCUMENTS

                         St. Petersburg Times (Florida)

                     April 15, 1989, Saturday, City Edition

The nation is caught in a third great crime wave

BYLINE: TED ROBERT GURR

SECTION: EDITORIAL; Columns; Pg. 17A

LENGTH: 770 words

DATELINE: WASHINGTON



WASHINGTON - Many streets in America's big cities are in a state of    anarchy.
The reason is that the United States is in the grip of the    third of three
great crime waves. They began about 50 years apart -    approximately 1850, 1900
and 1960 - and each has lasted for 20 to 30    years. The current wave is more
serious than the last one, which    Prohibition helped sustain into the early
1930s.

     Each year in this decade, about 20,000 Americans have been    murdered,
mainly in street fights, family quarrels and robberies.

       Our crime waves stand out against the long-run trend of declining
personal violence in Western society, which the cultural historian    Norbert
Elias attributed to "the civilizing process." By that he    meant the restraint
of aggressive impulses, acceptance of humanistic    values and establishment of
ordered routines of life that minimize    occasions for violence.

     America's three great crime waves can be linked to immigration,    economic
deprivation and war, which all interfere with the civilizing    process.

     From the 1840s to the end of large-scale European immigration after
1918, each new wave of immigrants - Irish, Germans, Italians - added
disproportionately to crime and mayhem in our cities. Many were    rootless
young men who indulged a penchant for drinking and street    brawling. As these
immigrants were absorbed into the industrial    economy's routines and received
its rewards, they committed fewer    crimes of violence.

     Most blacks in northern cities were persistently barred from the
industrial labor force. Except for a few years during and after World    War II,
they lacked the chances of immigrants to participate in an    economy that
produced a growing middle class. Since the best jobs were    closed to them, a
disproportionate number turned to gambling,    prostitution and dealing in
alcohol and drugs.

     However, when economic opportunities for blacks began to open up in    the
1960s, their rate of death from homicide declined - by about 30    percent
between 1970 and 1983. Since then, the resurgence of inner-city    poverty and
the onset of deadly drug wars have arrested the decline.

     During the same period, homicide rates among whites increased by    about
the same 30 percent. This was accompanied by a rise in poverty    and a family
breakdown among whites - conditions that breed violent      crime in all ethnic
groups.

     In any case, the first and second episodes of violent crime wound    down
as immigrants were incorporated into the expanding economy.

 Reforms in policing and criminal justice policy made arrest and    punishment
more certain. Civic associations and reform movements    transformed
crime-ridden neighborhoods and cities. Other institutions,    especially
churches, reasserted conservative moral values that    heightened inhibitions
against violence.

     Today's epidemic will not go away without similar concerted action.

 Multiple concurrent strategies are needed to undercut conditions that    breed
and sustain crime.

     The poverty cycle must be broken. Economic opportunities and    discipline
must be created for the alienated, poorly educated young    people at the lower
margins of black society - who still suffer from    the persistent consequences
of historical segregation - and of white    society.

     More-certain justice for repeat offenders is essential. This means
additional police officers (depending upon how they are used), more    prison
space and streamlined criminal court procedures. Community    efforts in every
neighborhood threatened with crime are also crucial.

 This requires public support for self-help projects such as teen-ager

 employment programs and for citizen crime patrols, and probably    acceptance
of direct action such as running drug dealers out of    neighborhoods. Of
course, comprehensive drug control and rehabilitation    programs are
indispensable if the other policies are to work.

     Unless we mobilize money and people to pursue all these policies,
today's crime wave will be our longest and most costly - and more    streets
will become nightmare alleys.



 - Ted Robert Gurr is professor of political science at the    University of
Colorado. He is editor of the forthcoming book Violence    in America: The
History of Crime. -



LOAD-DATE: November 9, 1992

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                            Times Publishing Company


                              122 of 187 DOCUMENTS

                         St. Petersburg Times (Florida)

                       May 12, 1989, Friday, City Edition

Immigrants locked down as authorities fear unrest

SECTION: TAMPA BAY AND STATE; Pg. 10B

LENGTH: 198 words

DATELINE: MIAMI



MIAMI - A hunger strike by 125 Haitian detainees and evidence that    materials
were being gathered to start a fire prompted authorities    Thursday to put the
Krome Avenue detention facility under a full    lock-down, immigration officials
said.

     Sixty riot officers were brought to the western Dade County    facility,
where illegal immigrants await hearings on their status, and    another 30
officers from Texas and Louisiana were en route because of    understaffing at
Krome, said Perry Rivkind, district director of the    Immigration and
Naturalization Service.

     "The information we have is, they started to gather strips of    cloth,
paper and other flammable materials along with storing matches    in order to
start a fire at Krome," Rivkind said.

     The lock-down was ordered in light of trouble expected Sunday when    a
demonstration is to be held outside the facility, Rivkind said.

     The lock-down means that the more than 700 detainees must eat in    their
barracks, escorted while in groups, that recreational activities    are limited,
and that visits from outsiders are halted.



LOAD-DATE: November 9, 1992

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DISTRIBUTION: TAMPA BAY AND STATE

                            Times Publishing Company


                              123 of 187 DOCUMENTS

                         St. Petersburg Times (Florida)

                     May 24, 1989, Wednesday, City Edition

Hillsborough gets part of grant

SECTION: TAMPA; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 121 words

DATELINE: TAMPA Z



TAMPA - Hillsborough County will receive $ 111,549 to provide    services to
refugees and Cuban/Haitian immigrants, said Gregory L.    Coler, secretary of
the state Department of Health and Rehabilitative    Services.

     The financing represents part of $ 73-million in federal money
appropriated to help immigrants to Florida become legal citizens. The    money
comes as a part of the State Legalization Impact Assistance    Grant.

     The grant is used by state and local governments as reimbursement    for
costs incurred in the legalization process. Hillsborough and Palm    Beach
counties are the first two counties to participate in the grant    program.



LOAD-DATE: November 9, 1992

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DISTRIBUTION: TAMPA

                            Times Publishing Company


                              124 of 187 DOCUMENTS

                         St. Petersburg Times (Florida)

                     June 21, 1989, Wednesday, City Edition

Couple hope to stay in America

BYLINE: KARA BAUDER

SECTION: CITY TIMES; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 914 words

DATELINE: CLEARWATER



CLEARWATER - Even though U.S. immigration officials threatened more    than a
year ago to deport Norma and Norman Rhodes, the British couple    are still
selling American flags and volunteering daily at their    church.

     The South Pasadena couple own and operate the Spirit of '76 flag    store
in Clearwater and volunteer at the Holy Name of Jesus Catholic    Church in
Gulfport.

     Their troubles started innocently enough.

     They first came to the United States in 1987 on visitors' visas,    but
decided they wanted to live here permanently, Rhodes said. To do    that, they
needed to change their visa status from visitor to investor.

     Despite considerable community support, immigration officials    denied the
couple's application. Investors' visas, an immigration    official said last
year, are designed to provide Americans jobs from    foreign investment, not
jobs for foreigners in America.

     So since June 1988, the Rhodeses have been illegal aliens.

     But they haven't heard from immigration officials since August    1988.

     Friends describe the Rhodeses as caring, hard-working, lively and
outgoing. And now that the couple have been here two years, most of    their
friends say their lives would be changed without them.

     As a result, many have tried to help ensure the Rhodeses remain in    the
United States, said Sue Frank, a member of the Gulfport church.

 They have circulated petitions and sent them to state officials, she    said.
And several people said they sent letters to U.S. Sen. Bob    Graham, D-Fla,
although they got no response. Graham's office also did    not respond to
inquiries from a reporter.

     Rhodes said he doesn't expect politicians to help them since they    are
not constituents.

     Although it is difficult, the Rhodeses say, they are trying to lead    as
normal a life as possible, much to the delight of friends.

     "I feel we are a richer community since they have joined us,"    Frank
said. "Their involvement in the community has a ripple effect.

 Other people try to act like them."

     Frank, 42, of St. Petersburg, coordinates the Helping Hands    Ministry for
the Aged through the Holy Name of Jesus Catholic Church.

 She said she has known the Rhodeses since they became volunteers for    the
program shortly after joining the church.

     "They sought me," she said. "They said, 'What can we do to help    you?'
That doesn't happen very often. Most of the time, I have to go    looking for
volunteers."

     Since then, Frank said, the couple never has turned down a request    for
help.

     Among other things, the Rhodeses pick up elderly residents in the    church
bus for Saturday Mass; they set up the church every morning for    daily Mass;
they help a man get from his bed to the living room each    day; and they
deliver Communion to the elderly who can't make it to    church, Frank said.

     Marie A. Brown, 91, of South Pasadena said she depends on the    Rhodeses.

     "I have never found people who would do things for others that    they do
for me," Mrs. Brown said. "No matter who needs help, they are    there. If I
need them, all I have to do is call."

     Shortly after Mrs. Brown met the Rhodeses, she said, they offered    to
pick her up from the airport, although she said she didn't really    expect them
to since they had just met.

     "If there had been an angel there, I wouldn't have been more    surprised
and more happy," she said. "I really can't say anything but    good about them."


     Louis Laghi, a church member, said he has witnessed the couple's    effect
on the church and hopes they will be able to stay in the United    States.

     "We pray for them every day," he said. "Prayers are answered.

 Sometimes, God says no. That is what I told them, is maybe God wants    them to
go through this."

     To be deported, the Rhodeses would have to be arrested and tried in
court.

     "That could happen any day for us," Rhodes said. "Sometimes I    don't
think that would be so bad. At least I could give my side of the    story in
front of a judge. Maybe they don't want to come and stir up a    hornet's nest."


     Larry Sprinkle, acting officer in charge of the Tampa immigration
office, said he could not speak specifically about the Rhodeses' case,    but
said status violations such as the Rhodeses' generally are not a    high
priority for deportation officials. Instead, aliens convicted of    criminal
offenses and employers employing aliens get top priority, he    said.

     Sprinkle said there is no way to know if or when deportation    proceedings
will be brought against the Rhodeses.

     Regardless of what happens, Rhodes said, they want to be able to do
things everybody else can - such as visit their five children and one
grandchild in London or put up wallpaper without wondering whether they    will
be there to enjoy it.

     Though it is frustrating, Mrs. Rhodes said, the people are what      keeps
them in this country.

     "If and when we go, we will leave a great part of our hearts    here,"
Rhodes said. "We don't know what the future holds."



LOAD-DATE: November 9, 1992

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DISTRIBUTION: CITY TIMES; CLEARWATER TIMES; LARGO-SEMINOLE TIMES; NORTH PINELLAS
TIMES

GRAPHIC: COLOR PHOTO, Steve Hasel; Norma and Norman Rhodes, who own and operate
the Spirit of '76 flag store in Clearwater

                            Times Publishing Company


                              125 of 187 DOCUMENTS

                         St. Petersburg Times (Florida)

                      July 23, 1989, Sunday, City Edition

English bubbles out of educational melting pot // Immigrant students mix fun,
science to learn language

BYLINE: JENNIFER BIALOW

SECTION: CLEARWATER TIMES; Pg. 21

LENGTH: 705 words

DATELINE: CLEARWATER



CLEARWATER - Some say the minority will be the majority in America's    future.
Ted Leveroos has reason to believe this prediction may come    true.

     Leveroos is the originator and an instructor of a summer school    science
program for 55 immigrant and refugee children who cannot speak    fluent
English.

     Twelve languages were represented in this year's English Immersion
Summer Science Center at Eisenhower Elementary School, spoken by    students
from countries as diverse as Albania, Greece, Haiti, India,    Israel, Puerto
Rico and Vietnam.

     The program has existed in northern Pinellas County for three    years. The
main goal is to teach English to children in kindergarten    through fifth
grade, and writing skills through hands-on experience    with scientific
experiments and concepts.

     "If the children are involved in a project and there is    excitement, they
share a common bond and want to talk about it with    everyone," said Leveroos,
who worked with two assistants, Ann Kirwin    and Joann Diveris.

     As the rules stand, English is the only language spoken in the
classroom. But occasionally, Leveroos has overheard some bilingualism,    he
said.

     Many of the students had no education before entering the Pinellas
County school system. Leveroos said the children from refugee camps had
rudimentary instruction, but their parents' education was a priority.

     However, most adults did not learn English and continue to converse    in
their native languages at home. "The education stops when they go    out of the
door," Leveroos said.

     The five-week program ended Friday.

      Activities included working with light, color, sound and plants.

 Each day students participated in cooking international cuisine.

     Thursday's food experiment was an American favorite - green and    pink
taffy. Like Santa's helpers, the students grabbed and pulled, tore    and
wrapped until there were enough pieces for everyone.

      Eleven-year-old Johanna Thomas from India led the group, but said    she
would rather become a doctor than a candy-maker. "I want to help    my country
and the whole world," she said.

     The program was designed to use cooperative learning techniques.

 Leveroos said children were placed in groups, with the most
English-proficient students acting as team leaders. Each child was    assigned a
responsibility, but was required to share his or her task.

     When an assignment involved ironing a transfer decal onto T-shirts,
culture differences became apparent. "The little Greek boys said, 'No,    that
is a woman's work' and asked the Puerto Rican girls to do the      ironing,"
said Ms. Kirwin.

     But overall, they seem to have adjusted to the American way of    life.
Although 12-year-old Costa Eleftheriadis said the movie Batman    was somewhat
difficult to understand, he loved it.

     They don't make movies like that in his native homeland, Greece.    "I like
America better because they have movies, good schools, and I    have too much
friends," said Costa.



   Yessenia Guido, an 11-year-old who came to the United States in 1987    from
Nicaragua, said she remembers "hearing the fighters making noise    at night."

     She said she enjoyed learning many new sounds at the summer school
program. The students created musical instruments and started a    make-shift
band.

     Other projects included making miniature hot-air balloons and    volcanoes.

 The students also had contests to discover who could grow    the largest plant
or the "grossest and fuzziest" mold.

      When school starts Aug. 24, a bigger challenge will begin. The
foreigners will be integrated into the mainstream and will receive some
individual help through the county's English to Speakers of Other    Languages
(ESOL) program.

     ESOL pulls students out of the regular daily curriculum for a    half-hour
to an hour each day, depending on students' needs.



LOAD-DATE: November 9, 1992

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DISTRIBUTION: CLEARWATER TIMES; NORTH PINELLAS TIMES

                            Times Publishing Company


                              126 of 187 DOCUMENTS

                         St. Petersburg Times (Florida)

                      July 28, 1989, Friday, City Edition

Woman gets temporary green card after long battle

SECTION: CITY TIMES; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 181 words

DATELINE: SEMINOLE



SEMINOLE - A 50-year-old British immigrant's battle to obtain a new    green
card after the original had been stolen during a burglary more    than a year
ago ended Thursday when she received a temporary card from    the Immigration
and Naturalization Service (INS).

     The woman picked up the temporary card from U.S. Rep. C. W. Bill    Young's
office in Largo.  It was mailed there because the woman does not    have a
permanent address. The woman, who is not being identified    because she was
sexually assaulted before the burglary, waited five    months to regain the
right to legally work.

     The woman was punched and kicked in the face during the attack May    19,
1988. It took her nine months to heal. Since her recovery, the    woman has not
been able to work and lost her mobile home.

     Federal paperwork problems delayed the woman's application for the
permanent card, an INS official said. The woman would be allowed to    work with
the temporary card until she receives a permanent card.



LOAD-DATE: November 9, 1992

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DISTRIBUTION: CITY TIMES; CLEARWATER TIMES

                            Times Publishing Company


                              127 of 187 DOCUMENTS

                         St. Petersburg Times (Florida)

                      July 30, 1989, Sunday, City Edition

British woman gets work permit

SECTION: LARGO-SEMINOLE TIMES; Pg. 7

LENGTH: 203 words

DATELINE: SEMINOLE



SEMINOLE - A 50-year-old British immigrant's battle to obtain a new    green
card after the original had been stolen during a burglary more    than a year
ago ended last week when she received a temporary one from    the Immigration
and Naturalization Service (INS).

     The woman picked up the temporary card from U.S. Rep. C.W. Bill    Young's
office in Largo, the woman said Thursday.

     It was mailed there because the woman does not have a permanent    address.


     The woman, who is not being identified because she was sexually
assaulted before the burglary, waited five months to regain the right    to
legally hold a job.

     The woman was punched and kicked in the face during the attack May    19,
1988. It took her nine months to heal. Since her recovery, the    woman has not
been able to work and she lost her mobile home in    Seminole. She has been
living with friends in Largo.

     Federal paperwork problems delayed the woman's application for the
permanent card, an INS official said. The woman would be allowed to    work with
the temporary card until she receives the permanent card, he    said.



LOAD-DATE: November 9, 1992

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DISTRIBUTION: LARGO-SEMINOLE TIMES; CLEARWATER TIMES

                            Times Publishing Company


                              128 of 187 DOCUMENTS

                         St. Petersburg Times (Florida)

                     August 1, 1989, Tuesday, City Edition

House votes to speed up citizen oaths

SECTION: NATIONAL; WASHINGTON DIGEST; Pg. 4A

LENGTH: 759 words



The House, acting to streamline the naturalization process, voted    Monday by
voice vote to allow immigrants to sidestep backlogged courts    and be sworn in
as citizens at an Immigration and Naturalization    Service (INS) office. Under
current law, only courts can perform the    citizenship ceremony. Because of
crowded court schedules, immigrants in    some cities have had to wait months or
even more than a year, according    to a recent study by the National
Association of Latino Elected and    Appointed Officials. The measure has
already been approved by the    Senate, and administration officials said that
they expect President    Bush to sign it.



 Florida GOP official suggests he'll stay on

 William Taylor, a Florida Republican criticized for using his    political
connections to lobby the U.S. Department of Housing and Urban    Development
(HUD), said Monday he may serve out the remaining three    years of his term as
GOP national committeeman. "I have no intention    of resigning any time soon,"
Taylor said in a telephone interview from    Jacksonville. Since his blunt
testimony last week before a House    committee investigating influence peddling
at HUD, Taylor has consulted    with family and political friends about his
future. Though some    prominent Florida Republicans have called for him to
quit, Taylor said    state GOP Chairman Van Poole has not asked him to step
aside.



 Bill targets misleading mailings

 The House on Monday approved a bill to clamp down on private    businesses and
others who attempt to mislead consumers by designing    their mailings to look
like U.S. government documents. The bill, passed    by voice vote and sent to
the Senate, would require such mass-mail    solicitations to have on the
envelope or wrapper: "THIS IS NOT A    GOVERNMENT DOCUMENT." Rep. Frank
McCloskey, D-Ind., said the bill was    needed to "protect the consumer,
especially because many of these    deceptive mailings appear to be targeted at
the elderly and other    vulnerable groups."



 Customs chief leaves with some zingers

 Outgoing Customs Commissioner William von Raab took a few last jabs    Monday
at colleagues who, he says, are not sufficiently committed to    the war on
drugs. At the 200th anniversary celebration of the Customs    Service, in his
letter of resignation, an interview and a news    conference, von Raab zinged
Treasury Secretary Nicholas Brady, his    boss, for allegedly not supporting
him; unidentified State Department    bureaucrats and their "quest to make the
world safe for cocktail    parties; " and "political jockeying, backstabbing and
malaise" in the    anti-drug effort. Brady sat expressionless on stage through
von Raab's    remarks.



 Bill would assess Northrop for B-2 defects

 The Senate voted Monday night to increase Northrop Corp. liability for
repairing any defects in the B-2 Stealth bomber that are its fault. It
approved by voice vote an amendment that would require the Air Force to    seek
a provision in Northrop's next B-2 contract that would increase    Northrop's
liability for such repairs at least enough to wipe out its    profits. It would
require the Air Force to report to Congress if it    determines in negotiations
with Northrop that such a liability clause    would be impractical. The Senate
approved last week most of President    Bush's request to begin production of
the radar-evading plane next    year, provided it passes flying and
radar-evasion tests. Both actions    were on a $ 305-billion defense
authorization bill for next year.



 House vote supports Chinese students

 In a new reaction to China's crackdown on pro-democracy demonstrators    in
June, the House on Monday approved a measure that would allow    thousands of
Chinese students in the United States to forestall their    return to their
homeland. The measure, adopted by voice vote, was sent    to the Senate for
further action. The legislation would affect 32,000    of the 40,000 Chinese
students in the United States, those who hold    "exchange visitor" visas. Those
visas require students to return to    China for at least two years following
their time in the United States    before being able to return or go elsewhere.
The bill would waive the    requirement that they return home for two years.



LOAD-DATE: November 9, 1992

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: BLACK AND WHITE PHOTO; William VON RAAB

TYPE: DIGEST

                            Times Publishing Company


                              129 of 187 DOCUMENTS

                         St. Petersburg Times (Florida)

                    October 4, 1989, Wednesday, City Edition

A paradox posing as policy

SECTION: EDITORIAL; EDITORIALS; Pg. 12A

LENGTH: 518 words



If you're free to leave a country it proves you aren't a refugee. So    goes the
latest Catch-22 in U.S. immigration policy. After years of    pressure from
Washington, the Soviet Union is once again allowing mass    Jewish emigration.
But the United States plans to admit only 50,000 of    the 300,000 Soviet
citizens who are expected to apply next year and has    made it more difficult
for them by requiring that they get their    American visas before leaving
Moscow. Many will have no choice but to    go to Israel, which is expecting some
100,000 Soviet Jews over the next    three to five years. Israel is pleased, of
course.

     And so is the Bush administration, which claims the United States    simply
can't afford to accommodate so many refugees. In so saying, it    ignores the
moral implication of once again turning away Jews from a    country where
anti-Semitism is on the rise. Washington also seemed    dense to the unfavorable
practical consequences for its Middle East    policies. Didn't anyone foresee
that Israel would try to settle many of    those refugees in the disputed West
Bank?

     Israeli Finance Minister Shimon Peres confirmed that likelihood    during a
visit to Washington last week, and other Israeli officials are    now describing
it as a virtual certainty. Since the future of the West    Bank would be central
to any Mideast peace agreement, each new Israeli    housing project in the
occupied territory is an automatic impediment.

 The United States has tried for a long time to discourage further    Israeli
settlement on the West Bank, and Secretary of State James A.    Baker III has
explicitly urged Israel to "stop settlement activity."

 Yet Israel is now asking for $ 400-million in U.S. housing loan    guarantees,
some of which would be used to accommodate Soviet emigres    on the West Bank.

     That audacious misuse of American aid was sure to be rejected, as    White
House spokesman Marlin Fitzwater said Monday it will be. But the    fact that
Israel could even make such a proposal implies at best that    its government
does not care what Washington thinks about West Bank    settlements. To make its
point, the Bush administration should consider    refusing all of the requested
loan guarantees until it is assured that    none of them will help to resettle
Soviet emigres on the West Bank.

     Unsurprisingly, Israeli officials are saying that they would send    some
of the Soviet Jews to the West Bank, and perhaps to Gaza as well,    even
without American help. That would be their choice, but it should    be made
clear to them that it would force the United States to    reconsider other aid
policies as well.

     Washington should also reconsider its hardheaded attitude toward    the
Soviet Jews. An immigration policy that is at once so ethically    indefensible
and so practically damaging discredits both the moral    judgment and the common
sense of the administration that adopted it.


LOAD-DATE: November 10, 1992

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: EDITORIAL

                            Times Publishing Company


                              130 of 187 DOCUMENTS

                         St. Petersburg Times (Florida)

                    October 26, 1989, Thursday, City Edition

$ 3.45-billion quake relief package clears Congress

SECTION: NATIONAL; WASHINGTON DIGEST; Pg. 7A

LENGTH: 770 words



The Senate voted 97-1 Wednesday to approve a $ 3.45-billion relief    package to
help northern California repair damage from last week's    earthquake. The bill
provides $ 1.1-billion to the Federal Emergency

 Management Agency, $ 1-billion for highway repairs, $ 500-million to the
Small Business Administration and $ 250-million in discretionary funds    for a
total of $ 2.85-billion in direct funding. The bill also    authorizes a $
600-million increase in SBA's lending authority. The    House had approved $
2.85-billion in aid Tuesday, but accepted the    Senate version late Wednesday;
President Bush was expected to sign the    bill quickly.



 House passes bill    on refugee status

 The House approved a bill Wednesday that would suspend for three years    the
deportation of illegal immigrants from China, El Salvador and    Nicaragua. The
vote was 258-162. Illegal immigrants from the countries    who register within
nine months of the bill's enactment and who have    lived in the United States
since July would be eligible to remain in    the United States for three years.
The bill still must be approved by    the Senate.



 Federal courts urged to    streamline civil cases

 Judges and lawyers must do more to keep non-criminal cases in federal    courts
from taking too long and costing too much, Congress was told    Wednesday. "The
excessive cost and delay associated with litigating    civil cases in America
should no longer be tolerated and can be    forcefully addressed through
procedural reform, more active case    management by judges and better efforts
by attorneys and their    clients," said a 39-page report prepared by a special
task force    following a nine-month study. The effort was suggested by Sen.
Joseph    Biden, D-Del., chairman of the Senate Judiciary Committee.



 Rockwell received bonuses despite nuclear plant woes

 The Department of Energy (DOE) awarded $ 27-million in bonuses to    Rockwell
International Corp. for running a nuclear-weapons plant during    a three-year
period in which serious safety and environmental problems    piled up, the
General Accounting Office has reported. The report this    week concluded that
DOE downplayed environmental and safety problems at    the Rocky Flats plant
near Denver between 1986 and 1989. Other DOE    documents released this week by
a House panel revealed that DOE paid    salaries and bonuses as high as $
371,790 last year to officials of E.I.    du Pont de Nemours & Co. for running
another problem-plagued    nuclear-weapons plant in South Carolina. Rep. Mike
Synar, D-Okla., the    subcommittee chairman, said the revelations underscore
the need for DOE    to reform its relationship with private contractors who run
the    nation's 17 weapons plant.



 Lawmakers urge boycott of tuna caught in drift nets

 Two lawmakers called Wednesday for a boycott of canned tuna imported    from
countries whose fishing fleets use drift nets. Rep. Peter DeFazio,    D-Ore.,
and Eni F.H. Faleomavaega, American Samoa's non-voting delegate    to Congress,
also urged consumers not to buy tuna from nations whose    canneries process
fish supplied by the nets. DeFazio said the small,    mesh nets that can stretch
more than 30 miles in length kill thousands    of marine mammals and sea birds
annually. DeFazio said virtually all    canned tuna from Southeast Asia contains
fish caught by drift net    fleets.



 Broom makers swept away by mistake in trade code

 The aim was admirable: Scratch extraneous words from a tongue-twisting    trade
code. But by deleting three, a government agency has mistakenly    opened the
nation's borders to cheap brooms - and U.S. broom makers    fear their sturdy,
corn-bristle sweepers will suffer. "It's thrown our    industry into turmoil,"
says Tim Monahan of Arcola, Ill., president of    Thomas Monahan Co., the
world's largest supplier of corn-broom    materials. The U.S. Trade Commission
changed the section that put    import restrictions and costly tariffs on brooms
made "wholly or    partly of broom corn." The rule now applies to brooms made
"of broom    corn." Now foreign producers can market brooms made of cheap
material    as corn brooms and sell them at about half the price, Monahan said
    Wednesday. An attorney for Mexican broom exporters said American makers
"just don't want competition."



LOAD-DATE: November 10, 1992

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: BLACK AND WHITE PHOTO; REP. MIKE SYNAR

TYPE: DIGEST

                            Times Publishing Company


                              131 of 187 DOCUMENTS

                         St. Petersburg Times (Florida)

                    November 12, 1989, Sunday, City Edition

Lawmakers accuse INS office of abuses

BYLINE: DAVID DAHL

SECTION: NATIONAL; WASHINGTON NOTEBOOK; Pg. 6A

LENGTH: 536 words



Two Florida congressmen have asked for an investigation of alleged    fiscal
mismanagement at the Miami office of the Immigration and    Naturalization
Service (INS).

     Reps. Tom Lewis and Bill McCollum say a shortage of INS personnel    has
resulted in a "massive backlog" of residency applications in    Miami. They say
there is a 14-month waiting period for residency    applications in the Miami
office, compared with waits of three to six    months in other cities.

     In a letter asking the General Accounting Office (GAO) to    investigate,
Lewis and McCollum called the delays a "gross injustice"    to people seeking
U.S. residency.

     The two Republicans assert that there are more than 100 vacant    positions
in the Miami INS office and that there are shortages in the    Border Patrol in
Florida as well. Lewis is from North Palm Beach and    McCollum is from Winter
Park.

 Vote proves costly

   When Rep. E. Clay Shaw Jr., a Fort Lauderdale Republican, failed to
support a key Democrat's transportation appropriations bill on the    House
floor, the punishment came swiftly.

     A $ 1-million project in Shaw's district was cut from the bill,    courtesy
of Miami Democrat Bill Lehman, chairman of the House    Appropriations
subcommittee on transportation. The money would have    gone to begin
construction of a tunnel under the Intercoastal Waterway    in Broward County.

     Shaw's sin was to vote to add $ 24-million to the transportation    bill
for the Coast Guard. He voted for the added money over Lehman's    objections.

     "He didn't support the bill on the floor," explained Lehman    spokesman
John Schelble. "Shaw voted for a budget-buster."

 Panel sets interviews

    A judicial screening commission set up by Sen. Connie Mack,    R-Fla., is
turning its attention to two federal court openings in South    Florida.

     The 21-member commission expects to interview applicants next month    for
the opening created when the Senate removed impeached Judge Alcee    Hastings
from the bench. Hastings was the state's first black federal    trial judge.

     The commission also will interview applicants to fill an opening    created
last year when U.S. District Judge Sidney M. Aronovitz became    a senior judge.

 Harry S. Raleigh Jr., a candidate recommended by the    Florida congressional
delegation last year, was not nominated by the    Justice Department.

     Thomas Schultz, chairman of Mack's commission, said the panel will
interview candidates in Miami Dec. 13 and 14. The panel will make its
recommendations to Mack by Dec. 15, and Mack will then interview the
applicants and send the names to the Justice Department for    consideration.

     Three judges were recommended by the commission last month to fill    an
opening on the 11th Circuit Court of Appeals. The commission also    expects to
be called on to consider nominees for several other federal    openings in
Florida.

 - Times staff writer David Dahl compiled this report.



LOAD-DATE: November 10, 1992

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                            Times Publishing Company


                              132 of 187 DOCUMENTS

                         St. Petersburg Times (Florida)

                    December 12, 1989, Tuesday, City Edition

Use U.S. workers before European immigrants

BYLINE: Kenneth Heaton

SECTION: CITY TIMES; My View; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 1092 words



An American industrialist was determined to establish a subsidiary    in West
Germany at the peak of the Cold War. His subsidiary, Unbrako    Schrauben, was
ready to hire personnel for its Koblenz plant in the    1960s. Highly skilled
workers were required but where were they to come    from? Established
industries already were importing personnel from    Spain and Italy. But on the
morning the employment office opened, there    was a long waiting line. Several
hundred people had come through the    Iron Curtain the night before. East
Germany had widespread unemployment    and saw this as an opportunity to place
some good workers.

     Today East Germans are streaming through by the thousands. They are
coming on their own initiative because they are hoping for a better    life.
Many will want to come to the United States and Congress already    is being
urged to raise the 54,000 visa limit. Attention is being    called to
contributions of recent immigrants from Southeast Asia: 22.7    percent college
educated; 23 percent from professional, technical and    managerial occupations.

 Attention also is being called to the United    States' need for a more
competitive work force if it is to keep up in    the global economic race.

     The United States must review its policies in the light of new
developments abroad. Undoubtedly we can help these young immigrants and
strengthen our own economy at the same time. In this policy review,    however,
Congress must not forget certain related issues that already    are calling for
attention.

     We must not forget that we already have an unprecedented number of    young
couples who are struggling just to get along even with two wage    earners. Over
the past decade the number of middle-wage jobs has been    reduced continuously
as a result of changes in production methods and    decline in sales of
automobiles and other products. In certain labor    agreements dual wage scales
have been adopted, giving one level of    remuneration to incumbents and much
less to young employees doing the    same work. There also are those who hold
jobs far below their aptitudes    and training. Then there are the chronically
unemployed who have given    up the job search and are no longer listed in the
unemployment    statistics. The number involved is indicated by the fact that 22

    percent of the under-30 population are living near or below the poverty
line, the proportion having doubled since 1973.

     This situation may not seem important to the economy as long as all
available jobs are filled. Very soon, however, and for the next 25    years
there will be fewer and fewer Americans in the 18-65 age span. If    jobs are to
be filled with immigrants as shortages develop, it will    condemn an increasing
portion of our current population to poverty or    t t near-poverty. Those who
remember Italy's experience with the    chronically unem ployed are aware of the
possible social and political    implications for the United States.



   This, frankly, is another plug for a joint effort of education,    industry,
community and government for the motivating, training and job    place ment of
those who are not ready to meet the requirements of    today's job market. There
are sufficient demonstrations to make clear    the possibili ties if only we had
an accepted policy and nationwide    effort.

     It may be helpful to look at the situation from the point of view    of an
employer. A Pennsylvania-based corporation saw the opportunity    for profitable
expansion if only it could staff it. The crucial need    was for some 125 people
for middle-management positions. These people    could be hired away from other
companies but this would be expensive    and could earn the enmity of the
business community. The company could    have set up a recruiting office near
the Iron Curtain. It chose instead    to develop its own team.

     Within and outside the company a search was launched for people who    had
been successful supervisors or who had otherwise demonstrated    leadership,
ability to solve problems on their own initiative and    sufficient
self-confidence to function effectively with a minimum of    supervision. Work
history was checked against the findings of the most    sophisticated
psychological procedures in order to predict their    ability to master new
technology and to grow on the job. The group of    125 who eventually were
appointed had as little as an eighth-grade    education and an average of 10th
grade completion, but an average    intellectual potential substan tially above
that of most college    graduates. They advanced rapidly in the technical
training essential to    their new assignments. Concurrently, similar search and
selection    procedures were employed in hiring new supervisors and workers from

    among those who were under-employed but with superior native aptitudes.

 There was a bonus in this approach. The positions at all levels were    filled
with people who suddenly had careers open up for them about    which they had
never even dreamed. Individual psychological findings    were shared with each
person hired, with the result that    self-confidence was increased. It is not
only immigrants who can be    expected to function with high motivation.

     We have no quarrel with the business journals that tell us that
"increasing the level of immigration would add skill to the labor    force" and
that, "at a time when the U.S. faces serious export    competition from all
parts of the globe, skilled immigrants should be    welcome here." Let us not
ignore the new reservoir of talent, nor    ignore available internal manpower
sources and problems.

     Tampa Bay need not wait for the initiative of the federal    government to
upgrade available personnel and solve problems. There are    steps a local
community can take that have not been given adequate    attention and that
should be fully explored before we turn to the new    European source for men
and women to fill our jobs.

 Dr. Kenneth L. Heaton is an industrial psychologist who lives in St.

 Petersburg. My View columnists, invited to contribute on a regular

 basis, write their own views on subjects they choose.



LOAD-DATE: November 10, 1992

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DISTRIBUTION: CITY TIMES

TYPE: COLUMN

                            Times Publishing Company


                              133 of 187 DOCUMENTS

                         St. Petersburg Times (Florida)

                   December 16, 1989, Saturday, City Edition

Students travel the world via their mentors' teaching

BYLINE: TERRI REEVES

SECTION: CITY TIMES; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 557 words

DATELINE: ST. PETERSBURG



ST. PETERSBURG - Erik Hosford got a chance to go to Sweden this week,    and he
didn't have to leave his portable classroom at Azalea Elementary    School.

     Erik and 13 other fourth- and fifth-graders in the gifted program    at the
school traveled all around the world with the help of some    mentors from
SPIFFS (St. Petersburg International Folk Fair Society).

     Over the past three weeks, the students, with the aid of 16    mentors,
studied the culture of their choice. They learned about the    country's
customs, foods, clothing, music and weather from the    mentor/volunteers, many
of whom have immigrated to the United States or    are first generation
immigrants.

     The culmination of the program came this week when each student    made a
presentation about his or her country.

      With the Lucia Song playing softly in the background and the crown    of
St. Lucia burning brightly, Eric was dressed in white to portray a    star boy,
an attendant to Lucia, for his presentation on Sweden.

      His mentor, Lotta Baumann, had donned her native costume - a red    skirt
with yellow bodice, green apron and a hand-embroidered elkskin    belt - for the
occasion.

     The somewhat shy fourth-grader got some occasional prompting from    Ms.
Baumann as he told his classmates about the Festival of St. Lucia    and other
Swedish customs.

     The students saw the costumes of Japan, Mexico, China and Italy,    and a
Chinese Readers Digest. And they learned about flags, such as the
blue-and-yellow Ukrainian flag, which symbolizes blue skies and golden    wheat
fields.

     One of the students wrote her name in Japanese. Two played Israeli    wood
pipes. One told that many of the fairy tales children have read    about were
set in the Black Forest of Germany.

     Both mentors and students gained something out of the process,
participants agreed.

     Ms. Baumann, who immigrated to the United states in 1972, achieved    her
goal to "preserve and promote the Swedish culture."

     David Hwang, 10, who learned about Mexico with the help of Vicki    Ponce,
said he learned many fascinating things. "I learned things the    encyclopedia
couldn't say. One of the most interesting was that the    pyramids in Egypt are
perpendicular with those in Mexico."

     This is the second year that the mentor program has operated at the
Azalea Elementary School, 1680 74th St. N.        "For years we've been sending
resource teachers into the schools    to share their personal insights with the
children," said Anna Trakas,    executive director of SPIFFS. But this program,
initiated by teacher    Robbie Bennett, is special because it gives SPIFFS
members the chance    to work one-on-one with the children, Mrs. Trakas said.

     The SPIFFS volunteers, she said, were receptive and very "excited    over
the program."

     And the teacher was satisfied with the results. "Not only are the
children learning about the countries, but they have become friends    with
people of another generation," Mrs. Bennett said. "Some of these    mentors have
even visited the children at home and met their parents."



LOAD-DATE: November 10, 1992

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DISTRIBUTION: CITY TIMES; CLEARWATER TIMES; LARGO-SEMINOLE TIMES; NORTH PINELLAS
TIMES

GRAPHIC: BLACK AND WHITE PHOTO, Kathleen Cabble; Student and mentor: Erik
Hosford and Lotta Baumann share Swedish customs.

                            Times Publishing Company


                              134 of 187 DOCUMENTS

                         St. Petersburg Times (Florida)

                   December 20, 1989, Wednesday, City Edition

Employ U.S. workers before hiring European immigrants

BYLINE: KENNETH L. HEATON

SECTION: PASCO TIMES; GUEST COLUMNS; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 1072 words



An American industrialist was determined to establish a subsidiary    in West
Germany at the peak of the Cold War. His subsidiary, Unbrako    Schrauben, was
ready to hire workers for its Koblenz plant in the    1960s. Highly skilled
workers were required, but where were they to    come from? Established
industries already were importing personnel from    Spain and Italy. But on the
morning the employment office opened, there    was a long waiting line. Several
hundred people had come through the    Iron Curtain the night before. East
Germany had widespread unemployment    and saw this as an opportunity to place
some good workers.

     Today, East Germans are streaming through by the thousands. They    are
coming on their own initiative because they are hoping for a better    life.
Many will want to come to the United States, and Congress already    is being
urged to raise the 54,000 visa limit.

     Attention is being called to contributions of recent immigrants    from
Southeast Asia: 22.7 percent college educated; 23 percent from    professional,
technical and managerial occupations. Attention also is    being called to the
need for a more competitive U.S. work force if it    is to keep up in the global
economic race.

     The United States must review its policies in the light of new
developments abroad. Undoubtedly we can help these young immigrants and
strengthen our economy at the same time. In this policy review,    however,
Congress must not forget certain related issues that already    are calling for
attention.

     We must not forget that we already have an unprecedented number of    young
couples who are struggling just to get along even with two wage    earners. Over
the past decade the number of middle-wage jobs has been    reduced continuously
as a result of changes in production methods and    decline in sales of
automobiles and other products. In certain labor    agreements dual wage scales
have been adopted, giving one level of    remuneration to incumbents and much
less to young employees doing the    same work.

  There also are those who hold jobs far below their aptitudes and    training.
Then there are the chronically unemployed who have given up    the job search
and are no longer listed in the unemployment statistics.

     The number involved is indicated by the fact that 22 percent of the
under-30 population are living near or below the poverty line, the    proportion
having doubled since 1973.

     This situation may not seem important to the economy as long as all
available jobs are filled. Very soon, however, and for the next 25    years
there will be fewer and fewer Americans in the 18-65 age span. If    jobs are to
be filled with immigrants as shortages develop, it will    condemn an increasing
portion of our current population to poverty or    near-poverty. Those who
remember Italy's experience with the    chronically unemployed are aware of the
possible social and political    implications for the United States.

     This, frankly, is another plug for a joint effort of education,
industry, community and government for the motivating, training and job
placement of those who are not ready to meet the requirements of    today's job
market. There are sufficient demonstrations to make clear    the possibilities
if only we had an accepted policy and nationwide    effort.

     It may be helpful to look at the situation from the point of view    of an
employer. A Pennsylvania-based corporation saw the opportunity    for profitable
expansion if only it could staff it. The crucial need    was for 125 people for
middle-management positions. These people could    be hired away from other
companies, but this would be expensive and    could earn the enmity of the
business community. The company could have    set up a recruiting office near
the Iron Curtain. It chose instead to    develop its own team.

     Within and outside the company a search was launched for people who    had
been successful supervisors or who had otherwise demonstrated    leadership,
ability to solve problems on their own initiative and    sufficient
self-confidence to function effectively with a minimum of    supervision. Work
history was checked against the findings of the most    sophisticated
psychological procedures in order to predict their    ability to master new
technology and to grow on the job.

     The group of 125 who eventually were appointed had as little as an
eighth-grade education and an average of 10th grade completion, but an
average intellectual potential substantially above that of most college
graduates. They advanced rapidly in the technical training essential to    their
new assignments. Concurrently, similar search and selection    procedures were
employed in hiring new supervisors and workers from    among those who were
underemployed but possessed superior native    aptitudes.

     There was a bonus in this approach. The positions at all levels    * were
filled with people who suddenly had careers open up for them about    which they
had never even dreamed. Psychological findings were shared    with each person
hired, with the result that self-confidence was    increased. It is not only
immigrants who can be expected to function    with high motivation.

     We have no quarrel with the business journals that tell us that
"increasing the level of immigration would add skill to the labor    force" and
that, "at a time when the U.S. faces serious export    competition from all
parts of the globe, skilled immigrants should be    welcome here." Let us not
ignore the new reservoir of talent, nor    ignore available internal manpower
sources and problems.

     Tampa Bay need not wait for the initiative of the federal    government to
upgrade available personnel and solve problems. There are    steps a local
community can take that have not been given adequate    attention and that
should be fully explored before we turn to the new    European source for men
and women to fill our jobs.

 Dr. Kenneth L. Heaton is an industrial psychologist who lives in St.

 Petersburg.



LOAD-DATE: November 10, 1992

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DISTRIBUTION: PASCO TIMES; CITRUS TIMES

TYPE: COLUMN

                            Times Publishing Company


                              135 of 187 DOCUMENTS

                         St. Petersburg Times (Florida)

                    December 26, 1989, Tuesday, City Edition

Hispanics hoping for a better life in Broward

BYLINE: BARRY KLEIN

SECTION: TAMPA BAY AND STATE; Pg. 1B

LENGTH: 1609 words

DATELINE: FORT LAUDERDALE



FORT LAUDERDALE - Julio Ibanez doesn't know it, but he's part of a    human
migration that is changing the face of Broward County.

        Ibanez, 27, is the son of Cuban immigrants who came to Miami in    the
early 1960s. He is college-educated, fluent in both English and    Spanish and
looking to buy his first home.

        And he wants to settle in Broward, a county that is becoming a    haven
for Hispanics who are spurning heavily Hispanic Dade County just    to the
south.

        "I'm just looking for a different environment," Ibanez, a    mechanical
engineer, said. "I want someplace that's a little less    frantic, a little more
suburban."

        Ibanez has plenty of company. According to U.S. Census figures,    the
number of Hispanics living in Broward County has increased by more    than 400
percent since 1970. Since 1980, Broward's Hispanic population    has grown
two-and-a-half times faster than the county as a whole. And    that growth is
expected to increase in the 1990s.

        Some of the new immigrants are the sons and daughters of the
Cuban-Americans who helped transform Dade County over the last 30    years. Some
are Puerto Ricans from New York and New Jersey seeking    sunnier climes. Many
are economic refugees from countries throughout    Central and South America.

        Their impact isn't hard to find.

        At least 600 Hispanic-owned businesses operate in Broward, as    well as
a Latin Chamber of Commerce. At least 28 churches in Broward    offer
Spanish-language services, and there are at least four    Spanish-language
newspapers.

        A Hispanic Democratic Club has formed, along with a Republican
counterpart. The county school system recently created a foreign    student
department to manage bilingual education programs at 27    schools. The Broward
County Sheriff's Department is looking to hire 150    Spanish-speaking deputies.


        "The influx is having a tremendous impact," said Ellen    Rodriguez,
director of the Broward County Office of Immigration    Services. "We're seeing
a need for increased social services for the    Hispanic community. We're seeing
a definite need for more bilingual    workers."

        What's not being seen, according to Hispanic officials in    Broward,
are the ethnic tensions that have made neighboring Dade County    so volatile in
recent years.

        "I believe most of the Hispanics living in Broward want to    integrate
with the community," says Diana Wasserman, a Cuban-American    and a Broward
County School Board member. "In Dade, thousands and    thousands of Cubans came
here at once. In Broward, the influx has been    slower, more gradual. That's
allowed for more gradual change, and far    fewer problems."

 Money: a common thread

   Local officials say the thread that connects many of the Hispanics    moving
into Broward County is money.

     "The majority of people moving here are looking for better jobs,    or any
job," said Joe Zunzunegui, president of the Broward County    Latin Chamber of
Commerce.

        Zunzunegui said many of the Hispanics moving down from New York    and
New Jersey are first-generation Cubans or Puerto Ricans who had    businesses up
north but think their chances of success are better in    South Florida.

        "And the weather is better too," Zunzunegui said.



      Many of the Hispanics moving to Broward from countries in Central    and
South America are economic refugees of a different kind, Rodriguez    said.

        She believes these Hispanics are deciding to live in Broward    rather
than Dade because of the many service-oriented jobs available in    Broward
hotels and restaurants. For years, many of the lower-end jobs    in Dade have
been controlled by Cubans, who tend to hire their own.

        "If you're Cuban, it's great in Dade," Rodriguez said. "But    if you're
not ... it can be tough finding work."

        But money isn't the only reason for the Hispanic migration. Some    of
the Hispanics moving into Broward, especially second-generation
Cuban-Americans, are coming here in search of a new lifestyle.

        "I think it's just part of the assimilation process," said Tom
Powers, the chief economist with Goodkin Research in Fort Lauderdale.

        Surveys indicate that as many as 20 percent of the people who    bought
homes in south Broward in recent years were young    Cuban-Americans, Powers
said.

        "These are the children of the Cubans who came here in large    waves in
the 1960s," he said. "They're comfortable outside Dade    County, and some of
them are looking for a different lifestyle."



      Zunzunegui agreed: "I do believe that many people moving here    are
looking to get away ... from the extremely conservative environment    of Cuban
Miami."

 Similarities and differences

      That doesn't mean there aren't some parallels between what    happened in
Dade County and what is now happening in Broward.



   As in Dade, Broward Hispanics have tended to cluster is certain
neighborhoods.

      There is a large Puerto Rican population in Hollywood, which last    year
opened a Spanish-language emergency line and hired a bilingual    clerk to
answer questions about bus routes. Several hundred Peruvian    families now are
living in Pompano Beach.

        Thousands of South Americans, most of them Colombian, are living    in
south Broward.

        "I got a call from the Plantation Chamber of Commerce because    they
were in shock over the number of Latin-owned businesses opening up    there,"
Rodriguez said. "Plantation is like middle America. ... They    weren't sure
what to do."

     The diversity of the foreign influx into Broward is perhaps most
apparent in the county school system.

     Nancy Terrel, the director of the new foreign students department,    said
the county has registered 2,600 new students from 75 foreign    countries in
just the last four months. Those students speak 33    different languages.

     Spanish-speaking students make up the largest group of the new    arrivals,
Terrel said. Haitians make up the second-largest group, and
Portuguese-speaking Brazilians make up the third-largest.

     But the Dade analogy is far from complete.

     Because the Cubans who moved into Dade over the last generation    came in
such large waves, they became a major political and economic    force relatively
quickly. Many were well-educated and well-traveled.

 Some arrived with substantial amounts of capital.

        The Broward migration has been much more dispersed, both
ideologically and economically.



      In Dade, for example, Hispanics are overwhelmingly Republican. In
Broward, Hispanics are divided fairly equally between Democrats and
Republicans.

        The economic impact of the Hispanic migration has been mixed.

        Some of the new arrivals, particularly the second-generation
Cuban-Americans from Dade, are making a sizable contribution to    Broward's
economy, Wasserman said. But many of the Hispanics arriving    here from other
countries are scraping to get by.

        "They're not able to contribute as much economically," said
Wasserman, who says that won't change until the new arrivals learn to    speak
English.

        So far, Broward has been able to avoid the ethnic tensions that    have
wracked Dade County during the 1980s. Many local Hispanics say one    reason is
the widespread availability of service-type jobs in Broward's
economy.

        In Broward, there is much less economic competition between    blacks
and Hispanics than in Dade, Rodriguez said.

        "Friction usually starts because of a fear that you will lose
something," she said.

        That doesn't mean things can't change if the number of Hispanics    z z
in Broward keeps increasing.

        Powers, for example, predicts there will be some "Anglo    flight" out
of Broward in the future, but nowhere near the amount that    has occurred in
Dade. A few years ago, a popular bumper sticker in    Miami said: "Will the last
American to leave South Florida, please    bring the flag."

        "You'll never see the intense Latinization in Broward County    that you
saw in Dade," Powers said. "The circumstances are just too    different."

 The changing face    of Broward County    In the past four months, 2,600
students from 75 nations have enrolled    in Broward County schools. Hispanics
make up the largest group with 750    new students. Haitians are the
second-largest group with 476 new    students. Portuguese-speaking Brazilians
make up the third-largest    group with 110 students.

 The Broward County school system has 27 bilingual teaching centers. It
recently opened a Foreign Student Affairs Department to handle the    influx.

 Also:    At least four Spanish-language newspapers are operating in Broward
County.

 At least 28 churches offer Spanish-language services.

 At least 600 businesses are Hispanic-owned.



LOAD-DATE: November 10, 1992

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DISTRIBUTION: TAMPA BAY AND STATE

GRAPHIC: BLACK AND WHITE MAP, Anne Hand; Population statistics for Broward
County for 1970, 1980, 1988 and projections for 1992.

                            Times Publishing Company


                              136 of 187 DOCUMENTS

                         St. Petersburg Times (Florida)

                    February 4, 1993, Thursday, City Edition

Haitians stuck at U.S. base want White House to act

BYLINE: SUSAN BENESCH

SECTION: NATIONAL; Pg. 2A

LENGTH: 624 words

DATELINE: MIAMI



The 267 Haitians on a hunger strike at the American military base in  Guantanamo
Bay, Cuba, say they are prepared to continue until they die.

They started the strike Friday after 15 months of confinement at  Guantanamo,
waiting for either the U.S. government or the U.S. courts to  decide what to do
with them. President Bush managed to ignore them for more  than a year, and now
the Haitians are trying to force President Clinton to  act.

They are in a deadlock because of two sad facts about their lives. First,  they
are potential political refugees, so they can't be sent back to Haiti.  Second,
nearly all of them have the HIV virus that causes AIDS or the disease  itself,
so they haven't been allowed to enter the United States, which is  their goal.
Because of a U.S. law excluding foreigners with communicable  diseases, Haitian
boat people were tested for HIV, and nearly all of those who  tested positive
were kept out.

There is no group of any other nationality in a similar predicament. Most
applicants for political asylum are already in the United States, and if they
are already here they are not tested for HIV, according to Duke Austin of the
Immigration and Naturalization Service. Applicants for immigrant visas to the
United States are tested for HIV, and they generally are not accepted if they
are HIV-positive.

The 267 Haitians are the last of more than 30,000 Haitian boat people the  U.S.
Coast Guard picked up in 1991 and 1992.

Overwhelmed by the sudden exodus that followed the October 1991 overthrow  of
Haitian President Jean-Bertrand Aristide, the U.S. government shipped the
Haitians to the American base at Guantanamo and held them there in tent camps
while the U.S. Immigration and Naturalization Service tried to decide which
ones had legitimate fears of political persecution. About 10,000 candidates  for
political asylum eventually were taken to the United States while the rest  were
forced to go back to Haiti.

In May 1992, President Bush ordered that Haitian boat people caught at sea  by
the Coast Guard be shipped directly back to Haiti, not to Guantanamo. The  tent
camps gradually shrank until about 300 Haitians were left, all of them
HIV-positive, according to the INS and the U.S. Navy, except about 40 family
members of the others who decided to stay.

About 38 of the group, including a sick child and several HIV-positive  women in
the last months of pregnancy, have been allowed to come to the United  States
because they needed special medical attention. The rest have simply  been
waiting for a decision. Fifteen of them have been at Guantanamo since  November
1991. Guantanamo was supposed to be a temporary stop for them, not an
indefinite home or a prison.

They all eat in a mess hall and live in tin-roofed shacks or cinderblock
barracks. Sometimes they are allowed to go fishing, if accompanied, and
American soldiers occasionally take them on expeditions to the base  McDonald's.

Afraid that the INS would decide to send the group back to Haiti,  immigration
lawyers have sued the U.S. government, charging that the Haitians  had the right
to access to legal counsel before final decisions were made on  their requests
for asylum. After several decisions and appeals, the U.S.  Supreme Court has
agreed to hear that case. Pending its decision, the Haitians  probably cannot be
sent back to Haiti even if they want to go, according to  INS spokesman Austin.

At any time, the U.S. attorney general could grant permission for all 267
people to be admitted to the United States. That would make the Supreme Court
case moot because American lawyers would then have access to the Haitians,
ending the deadlock.

LOAD-DATE: February 10, 1993

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: COLUMN

                            Times Publishing Company


                              137 of 187 DOCUMENTS

                         St. Petersburg Times (Florida)

                    February 19, 1993, Friday, City Edition

Refugee definition for women expanded

SOURCE: London Observer Service

SECTION: NATIONAL; Pg. 13A

LENGTH: 433 words

DATELINE: TORONTO



Women unable to find government protection from sexual or physical abuse in
their own countries may be welcomed into Canada under an expanded definition  of
refugees.

Women's organizations and human-rights groups hailed the Feb. 10 decision,  but
Immigration Minister Bernard Valcourt warned the change could open Canada  to
millions of women seeking asylum.

Toronto immigration lawyer Barbara Jackman said the policy is so broad that
"even the United States" could send women classed as refugees to Canada.

The change was instituted by Nurjehan Mawani, head of the Canadian  Immigration
and Refugee Board.

"In cases where the state makes no effort to protect a severely battered  woman,
or stop or punish a violent partner, and where no protection can be  obtained
within her own country . . . (and where women are) at risk of serious  harm,
(they) should qualify as refugees," Mawani said.

Until now Canada has relied on the 1951 Geneva Convention to define a  refugee
as someone with a "well-founded fear of persecution for reasons of  race,
religion, nationality, membership in a particular social group or  political
opinion."

Last month, Valcourt warned against widening that definition to include  sexual
attack or abuse.

"Some people seem to think that you can change this without impacting  severely
(on) the flow of people," he said. "Some people want to forget and  to ignore
that it is millions and tens of millions of people who are on the  move daily
around the globe. And Canada cannot act unilaterally - or even  argue - against
the principles of the United Nations to which we subscribe."

Last November the Canadian federal court ruled that Trinidad women subject  to
"wife abuse" could constitute a "particular social group" as defined by  the
1951 Convention and so be designated as refugees.

And the United Nations ruled in 1985 that member nations could consider
gender-based claims under the "social group" category.

"I believe that there is sufficient room within the present definition for  us
to provide protection to women claimants genuinely in need of protection,"
Mawani said.

Among the countries now providing a test for the new Canadian policy are  Saudi
Arabia, Bangladesh and Trinidad.

The case that brought the issue to a head in Canada was that of a  24-year-old
Saudi Arabian woman who sought refugee status in Canada after she  had been
beaten and stoned for refusing to wear a veil. She was initially  turned down by
the Canadian refugee board and urged "to comply with the  laws" of her own
country.

LOAD-DATE: February 25, 1993

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                            Times Publishing Company


                              138 of 187 DOCUMENTS

                         St. Petersburg Times (Florida)

                    February 23, 1993, Tuesday, City Edition

AIDS and immigration

SECTION: EDITORIAL; EDITORIALS; Pg. 6A

LENGTH: 553 words



Under current U.S. regulations, people seeking to immigrate to the United
States can be turned away for a variety of medical conditions, including being
infected with the virus that causes AIDS. Those restrictions are the result of
an effort to weigh the social and economic costs of granting entry to people
with communicable diseases. As currently applied, the restrictions may not
create a perfect balance between pragmatism and compassion, but they should  not
be casually tossed aside for reasons that have more to do with politics  than
public health.

Bill Clinton probably didn't intend to precipitate a full-scale rewriting  of
immigration policy last year when he made a campaign promise to lift the
regulation that denies entry to those infected with HIV. Instead, Clinton may
have been influenced by the embarrassment that resulted last year when U.S.
officials chose to deny entry to HIV-infected foreigners who planned to attend
an international AIDS conference at Harvard University. Most health experts
were critical of the U.S. policy, and the conference eventually was canceled.

The health authorities' criticism was justified. There was no reasonable  basis
for denying entry to those who would have been in the country only for  the
duration of the Harvard conference. However, there are reasonable concerns
related to HIV-infected foreigners who seek permanent residence in the United
States: How easily could the country tolerate the additional burden on an
already stressed health system? Would acceptance of HIV-infected immigrants
discriminate against foreigners with other communicable diseases, such as
tuberculosis?

Based on those and other concerns, the Senate voted 76-23 last week to give
legal force to the existing regulation that denies entry to immigrants  infected
with HIV. The House is not expected to follow the Sen-

ate's lead, though. That means the president still may have a chance to  reverse
the regulation with a stroke of his pen.

However, the president already has found himself trapped in too many
controversies that diverted attention from his legislative priorities. With  his
economic package in the balance, he can't afford the political cost of  ignoring
Congress' strong sentiment on the AIDS immigration issue.

In any case, this is a decision that should be made by health  professionals,
not indebted politicians. Dr. Louis Sullivan, secretary of  Health and Human
Services in the Bush administration, commissioned a study two  years ago that
concluded that HIV-infected immigrants should not generally be  disqualified
from entering the country. President Bush and Congress did not  follow through
on that recommendation, but it might now serve as the basis for  a broader study
that reassesses immigration policy toward all communicable  diseases, including
AIDS.

By agreeing with Congress to accept the conclusions of such a study, the
president would have a chance to fulfill his campaign promise without creating
an unnecessary institutional fight. That's a reasonable way of making U.S.
immigration policy consistent with the most current medical information about
AIDS.

It's also a reasonable way for the president and Congress to move on to  more
crucial issues.

LOAD-DATE: March 1, 1993

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: BLACK AND WHITE CARTOON, CLAY BENNETT; a man answering multiple phones
for the 'Depression Hotline' on election day

TYPE: EDITORIAL

                            Times Publishing Company


                              139 of 187 DOCUMENTS

                         St. Petersburg Times (Florida)

                      March 5, 1993, Friday, City Edition

Germany works to curb immigration

SECTION: NATIONAL; WORLD DIGEST; Pg. 12A

LENGTH: 225 words

DATELINE: BONN; WASHINGTON; FRANKFURT, Germany



Faced with right-wing extremism and a faltering economy, Germany began
rewriting its liberal asylum law Thursday to try to halt the rush of would-be
immigrants. The law in effect since 1949 offers asylum to all politically
oppressed people, but the government contends nearly all of the 440,000
asylum-seekers who entered Germany last year came for economic reasons. Under
the new law, people entering Germany from safe third countries could be turned
away at the border.

Elsewhere . . .

WASHINGTON: Ousted Haitian President Jean-Bertrand Aristide held out hope
Thursday that he and President Clinton could set a "date certain" for  restoring
democracy to Haiti. Aristide said it was a "big contradiction" for  the United
States to stop Haitians from fleeing while allowing foreign vessels  to deliver
oil to the government.

FRANKFURT, Germany: Germany will not ask the United States to extradite the
Ethiopian who hijacked a Lufthansa passenger jet to New York last month. U.S.
authorities will handle the case.

WASHINGTON: China exported nearly 2-million guns to the United States between
1989 and 1991, according to a Washington Post report Thursday. The small arms
sales, made to obtain hard currency and U.S. military technology, followed a
1987 Bush administration decision to allow the imports.

LOAD-DATE: March 11, 1993

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: DIGEST

                            Times Publishing Company


                              140 of 187 DOCUMENTS

                         St. Petersburg Times (Florida)

                     April 8, 1993, Thursday, City Edition

Immigration, free trade can benefit United States

BYLINE: CHRISTIAN VAN SCHAYK

SECTION: CITY TIMES; GUEST COLUMN; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 955 words



Our attitude toward immigration and trade is very ambivalent. While we
acknowledge the economic opportunities inherent in trade, we fear the changes
it brings. Likewise, as a nation of immigrants, we are proud that many of our
most inventive and entrepreneurial citizens speak with an accent. Yet in  recent
years, increasing resentment is evident. Opinion polls, protectionism  and even
violence all testify to the increase in anti-immigrant sentiment and  general
xenophobia.

This is not without precedent. Many times in our history we have turned  inward
and lashed out against the latest wave of immigrants, be they Chinese  or Irish.
But each time an expanding western frontier or, later, a growing  industrial
base managed to absorb each successive wave of hopeful arrivals. Is  there any
reason to believe that this time it will be different?

"Yes!" is the cry from those who look upon this latest influx of  immigrants
with horror because they are from the Third World. "They'll never  fit in" and
are a "threat to our culture" is the oft repeated criticism.  Perhaps those who
speak of Kulturkampf and call for the Berlin Wall to be  resurrected along the
Rio Grande River underestimate the power and resilience  of American culture.
Certainly we will be influenced, just as the immigrants  themselves will be
changed. But American culture is not endangered. The danger  comes more from
politicians who exploit fear, and from educators who hide  behind
multiculturalism to cover up their own failure to teach the basic  skills
necessary for success.

It is not American culture that is threatened, rather it is our economy.
Immigration today, as in the past, can make us a stronger and richer society,
but only if we recognize that some fundamental changes have taken place. In  the
past, world economic power was based on quantity - resources and people.  We had
plenty of resources, but few people. Immigration served us well. Today,  it's
not a country's resources but the education of its people, their tools  and the
economic system in which they work that make the difference. We've  been a
little late in recognizing that change and now face the tremendous  investment
task of upgrading our skills, factories and infrastructure to meet  the
challenge of world competition.

But while we retool, we face having to train and support Americans who need
help to make the transition to a high-skill economy. It is no small task and
will require all our ingenuity and a good deal of our resources. It was a
commitment to public education, made early in our history, that made possible
our economic success. Only by expanding that commitment to encompass lifelong
learning and training can we secure the foundation for prosperity in the 21st
century.

The implication for immigration policy is clear. We do not need more people
competing for low-skill jobs. We cannot solve the problems of other nations by
absorbing their economic refugees. So what do we do? Close the gate and turn
our backs to the world? No, we can still remain true to our principle of
freedom of opportunity through supporting free trade and by basing immigration
on an individual's ability rather than what country a person came from or
whether he or she has an "uncle in America."

America always has attracted many of the world's best and brightest. Our
culture and choice of lifestyles are, in a very real sense, a competitive
advantage. Yet our immigration policy seems designed to keep out the very
people who are needed the most. For example, foreign engineers and scientists
study at our universities where they often constitute a majority in many Ph.D.
programs. But, because of arcane rules and procedures, many are forced to
return to their native countries. Present provisions for foreign professionals
who have skills in short supply in the United States should be expanded.

Our culture also makes us naturals when it comes to world trade. Our  diversity
is helping to make trade with the developing world one of the  fastest growing
sectors of our economy. Whether it's Hong Kong or Honduras,  frequently the only
thing separating the local manager from his American  counterpart is one
generation. The opportunities have never been greater.  Respected leaders such
as President Salinas of Mexico are calling for "trade,  not aid." They are
opening their markets and ask that we do the same. Trade  is our best hope for a
prosperous future.

But while it is true that the majority benefits from increased trade, we  cannot
ignore those in this country who are at risk from foreign competition  (or from
increased immigration). All of us should be prepared to sacrifice to  assist the
working poor and invest in upgrading skills. The alternative,  protectionism,
simply is not viable. Paying U.S. workers First World wages for  Third World
jobs is unsustainable. Keeping developing nations poor by denying  them trade is
in no one's best interest.

The consequence of protectionism is not only higher consumer prices in the
United States, it also takes away hope from desperate people throughout the
world, leaving them with little to lose. The results are higher U.S. defense
budgets, increased worldwide environmental degradation and more refugees who
will compete for the very jobs being protected.

Christian van Schayk is an independent consultant specializing in the
development and transfer of information-based technologies and their
application to industrial productivity improvement. Guest columnists write
their own views on subjects they choose, which are not necessarily the  opinions
of this newspaper.

LOAD-DATE: April 10, 1993

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DISTRIBUTION: CITY TIMES

                            Times Publishing Company


                              141 of 187 DOCUMENTS

                         St. Petersburg Times (Florida)

                     April 10, 1993, Saturday, City Edition

Changes in INS rule get lost in shuffle

BYLINE: BRUCE VIELMETTI

SECTION: TAMPA BAY AND STATE; Pg. 1B

LENGTH: 615 words

DATELINE: TAMPA



The Immigration and Naturalization Service issued a rule last year requiring
more than a million resident aliens holding green cards issued before 1978 to
get new ones by Aug. 1, 1993.

The regulation was posted in INS offices and published in the Federal  Register,
a relatively obscure government document.

Few notices were mailed out to green-card holders; only one, relatively  small
media blitz was undertaken, and that reached only part of the  Spanish-language
population of the Southwest. Most of those affected heard of  the requirement by
word of mouth.

But slowly, word spread, and resident aliens began showing up in large  numbers
at INS regional offices. It was a tide that nearly coincided with the  agency's
decision last month to cancel the card-replacement program.

Just as the program was created in relative obscurity, so was it  demolished,
and word hasn't gotten around yet. So the INS continues to swap  cards for
people who think they are complying with a government requirement -  and
continues to charge them $ 70 and more for a transaction that is now  voluntary.

The whole affair has been confusing for aliens and INS offices alike.

"The important thing to tell people now is there is no longer a  requirement (to
change cards), and the old cards will still be valid after  Aug. 1," said Jim
Minton, officer in charge of the Tampa INS office.

Green cards haven't been issued in green for decades (they're more of a  salmon
color). No matter the color, they are the proof that aliens are legal  residents
of the United States. Loss of a card can lead to huge bureaucratic  wrangles,
even deportation.

Minton's office serves 16 counties from Manatee to Citrus, home to an  estimated
250,000 to 350,000 resident aliens. There are no satellite offices.

The replacement program was shelved after immigration lawyers lobbied  against
it. First, they said, it was an unfair and expensive burden on  immigrants, who
would lose a day's pay traveling to Tampa, then have to pay at  least $ 70 on
top of that. Moreover, there often are additional fees for  identification
photos and fingerprints.

And there was a danger, they argued, that aliens who didn't hear of the  program
might travel abroad mistakenly thinking their old cards would ensure  their
return to the United States.

"A lot of people still have family in other countries," said Fernando  Perez
III, a Tampa immigration lawyer. "If they had left the United States to  visit
relatives and tried to return after August with an old card, they would  have
been blocked."

INS officials announced the green-card exchange rule in June. The  justification
was that some green cards date to the 1940s and have only a  head-on photo of
the bearer. Cards issued since 1978 carry a more angled photo  considered better
for identification, as well as a fingerprint and signature.

Cards issued since 1990 have even more protections, like magnetic coding.

The INS thought that it would be easier to administer a single form of card  and
that the public would have an easier time recognizing a valid card, Minton
said. And the exchange process would screen out counterfeit cards.

The National Immigration Law Center in Los Angeles and other groups filed a
class-action lawsuit late last year, and in March the INS gave up its  campaign.

That suit, pending in California federal court, seeks lower fees, mail-in
procedures and refunds for green-card holders who already paid for the switch.

Meanwhile, if there are resident aliens out there who still want to make  the
switch to the newer cards, Minton says the INS stands ready to oblige -  for a
fee.

LOAD-DATE: April 13, 1993

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DISTRIBUTION: TAMPA BAY AND STATE

                            Times Publishing Company


                              142 of 187 DOCUMENTS

                         St. Petersburg Times (Florida)

                      April 11, 1993, Sunday, City Edition

Quest for missing birth certificate leads to Action

BYLINE: JUDY GARNATZ

SECTION: CITRUS TIMES; ACTION; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 828 words



I give up! You are my last resort. My original birth certificate was taken  from
me in September 1950. This was done on the ship, and being a new  immigrant, I
did not question the action. I thought it would be returned to me  some time
later. Not so.

I didn't bother about it until my disability retirement application asked  for
my original birth certificate.

At that time (February 1992) I inquired at the Baltimore Immigration  Office.
They said I should send Form G-884 containing personal information to  Miami,
which is in the state of my current residence. I sent this in May 1992.

I never received an acknowledgement from Immigration in Miami so I wrote  again
and again. Finally they said they had not received my Form G-884. They  also
lost a small picture (given to me on the ship) of my original birth
certificate. I wrote again but then all contact was completely cut off.

I am very uncomfortable about having to continually send personal  information
to a place where nobody acknowledges its receipt.

R.P.

Response: In your own words, "I have received my original birth  certificate.

"It is a shame that in dealing with federal agencies you have to send all  mail
registered and, even then, there is no acknowledgement assured. Then they  wear
you down by manipulation, attrition and plain frustration until you give  up
trying.

"Therefore I am doubly grateful to Action for caring."

Potential Rooms To Go customer denied credit

While looking at furniture at Rooms To Go I decided to take advantage of an
offer to buy a sofa with no down payment and no interest until August. I  filled
out the application and paid $ 100 down, even though all they required  was a $
30 down payment.

My application was turned down but the saleswoman said she would try  another
firm. Several days went by during which time I kept trying to reach  her.
Finally I received a letter saying my application had been rejected.

I decided I was disgusted with this entire matter and called to cancel the  sofa
order. First Rooms To Go said I would get only $ 80 back because it is  their
policy to keep 20 percent if a customer does not cancel within 48 hours.  I
pointed out the delay was their fault, not mine. The saleswoman said she  would
speak to the manager. When she finally got back to me she said I would  receive
only $ 80 but would also get a $ 100 certificate good for one year on  any
furniture purchase.

I do not think this is fair since I didn't have to pay $ 100 down in the  first
place.

D.R.

Response: You have your $ 100 deposit back. The problem, according to Rooms  To
Go, was that every credit company they tried turned you down because of
delinquent payments.

Customer finds jockey underwear is defective

Last winter I bought two pair of McGregor jockey underwear. I left them in
Florida when I returned to Wisconsin.

This winter I took them out of the package but the elastic was defective  (no
stretch).

I have no receipt and no idea where I purchased them. Could you get the  address
of the manufacturer so I can find out if something can be done for a  refund or
exchange?

F.R.

Response: Write to McGregor Corp., 600 Madison Ave. 11th Floor, New York, NY
10019.

Foreign lottery not only is a scam; it's illegal

 I received the enclosed " Official Canadian Lottery Notification" in the  mail
a few weeks ago. It had Panamanian stamps and return address.

They are asking me to send money, which you once said not to do. Seems like  a
scam. What do you think?

George Kruger

Response: It is a scam. It also is illegal.

Title 18, U.S. Code Section 1302, prohibits the use of the U.S. mail to  enter a
foreign lottery even though that lottery may be operating legally in  another
country.

Postal officials say that any solicitation to participate in foreign  lotteries
received through the U.S. mail should be referred to the nearest  postal
inspector. We suggest you write "Send To Postal Inspector" across the  front of
the envelope and drop it in a mail box.

Reaction

Thanks to your help I received a purse, wallet and free watch from Value by
Mail. It's the wrong color purse but at least I finally got something for my
money. I also got a good lesson.

Donna Lee Neveau

Action answers questions, opens government doors and fights consumer battles
for residents of and visitors to the Suncoast. Given sufficient information,  we
process or refer every serious inquiry, but we cannot guarantee response.
Requests will be accepted only by mail. We cannot be responsible for returning
personal documents, so please send only photocopies. If the complaint concerns
a mail order, we will need copies of both sides of your canceled check. Upon
request, names will be omitted from items used in the weekly column. Address
your letter to Action, Times, P.O. Box 2365, Inverness, FL 32651-2365.

LOAD-DATE: April 14, 1993

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DISTRIBUTION: CITRUS TIMES; HERNANDO TIMES; PASCO TIMES

TYPE: COLUMN

                            Times Publishing Company


                              143 of 187 DOCUMENTS

                         St. Petersburg Times (Florida)

                      April 23, 1993, Friday, City Edition

Khrushchev's son now U.S. resident

SOURCE: Providence Journal

SECTION: NATIONAL; PEOPLE; Pg. 8A

LENGTH: 324 words

DATELINE: PROVIDENCE, R.I.



Thirty-four years ago, in a memorable Cold War incident dubbed the Kitchen
Debate, Sergei Khrushchev's father leaned over the railing of an American  model
kitchen in Moscow and boasted to an equally boastful Vice President  Richard
Nixon that Nixon's grandsons would be living under communism.

But shortly after 11 a.m. Monday, with a bright new stamp in his Russian
passport, the 57-year-old son of former Soviet leader Nikita Khrushchev  emerged
from the U.S. Immigration and Naturalization Service here as a  permanent legal
resident of the United States.

Nixon was just one of many former top U.S. officials who had written  letters of
support on behalf of Khrushchev's petition for permanent residency.  Others
included former President George Bush.

Khrushchev's father, who became Soviet leader in 1957 and was ousted in  1964,
died in 1971.

Sergei Khrushchev explained why he decided to seek permanent residency in  the
United States.

For one thing, he has concerns that Russia's recent strides toward  democracy
could soon be reversed, "and I just don't want to spend the last  years of my
life somewhere in jail."

But the main reason, he said, is hardly so dramatic. It's simply that  getting
his "green card" and the legal residency it confers will make life  easier for
him and his wife, Valentina, and will give them considerably more  freedom to
travel.

Khrushchev, whose book about his father, Khrushchev on Khrushchev, was
published in the United States in 1990, is on a two-year exchange program as a
senior research fellow at Brown University's Center for Foreign Policy
Development.

What would his father have said about his decision to live in America, or  about
the collapse of a system he helped run from its prewar Stalinist days  until
1964?

"Who knows? Perhaps he would be furious," said Khrushchev, who bears a  striking
resemblance to his father though he is far slimmer.

LOAD-DATE: April 24, 1993

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                            Times Publishing Company


                              144 of 187 DOCUMENTS

                         St. Petersburg Times (Florida)

                      May 11, 1993, Tuesday, City Edition

Immigration, trade can help United States

BYLINE: CHRISTIAN VAN SCHAYK

SECTION: PASCO TIMES; GUEST COLUMN; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 934 words



Our attitude toward immigration and trade is very ambivalent. While we
acknowledge the economic opportunities inherent in trade, we fear the changes
it brings. Likewise, as a nation of immigrants, we are proud that many of our
most inventive and entrepreneurial citizens speak with an accent. Yet in  recent
years, increasing resentment is evident. Opinion polls, protectionism  and even
violence all testify to the increase in anti-immigrant sentiment and  general
xenophobia.

This is not without precedent. Many times in our history we have turned  inward
and lashed out against the latest wave of immigrants, be they Chinese  or Irish.
But each time an expanding western frontier or, later, a growing  industrial
base managed to absorb each successive wave of hopeful arrivals. Is  there any
reason to believe that this time it will be different?

"Yes!" is the cry from those who look upon this latest influx of  immigrants
with horror because they are from the Third World. "They'll never  fit in" and
are a "threat to our culture" is the oft repeated criticism.  Perhaps those who
speak of Kulturkampf and call for the Berlin Wall to be  resurrected along the
Rio Grande River underestimate the power and resilience  of American culture.
Certainly we will be influenced, just as the immigrants  themselves will be
changed. But American culture is not endangered. The danger  comes more from
politicians who exploit fear, and from educators who hide  behind
multiculturalism to cover up their own failure to teach the basic  skills
necessary for success.

It is not American culture that is threatened, rather it is our economy.
Immigration today, as in the past, can make us a stronger and richer society,
but only if we recognize that some fundamental changes have taken place. In  the
past, world economic power was based on quantity - resources and people.  We had
plenty of resources, but few people. Immigration served us well. Today,  it's
not a country's resources but the education of its people, their tools  and the
economic system in which they work that make the difference. We've  been a
little late in recognizing that change and now face the tremendous  investment
task of upgrading our skills, factories and infrastructure to meet  the
challenge of world competition.

But while we retool, we face having to train and support Americans who need
help to make the transition to a high-skill economy. It is no small task and
will require all our ingenuity and a good deal of our resources. It was a
commitment to public education, made early in our history, that made possible
our economic success. Only by expanding that commitment to encompass lifelong
learning and training can we secure the foundation for prosperity in the 21st
century.

The implication for immigration policy is clear. We do not need more people
competing for low-skill jobs. We cannot solve the problems of other nations by
absorbing their economic refugees. So what do we do? Close the gate and turn
our backs to the world? No, we can still remain true to our principle of
freedom of opportunity through supporting free trade and by basing immigration
on an individual's ability rather than what country a person came from or
whether he or she has an "uncle in America."

America always has attracted many of the world's best and brightest. Our
culture and choice of lifestyles are, in a very real sense, a competitive
advantage. Yet our immigration policy seems designed to keep out the very
people who are needed the most. For example, foreign engineers and scientists
study at our universities where they often constitute a majority in many Ph.D.
programs. But, because of arcane rules and procedures, many are forced to
return to their native countries. Present provisions for foreign professionals
who have skills in short supply in the United States should be expanded.

Our culture also makes us naturals when it comes to world trade. Our  diversity
is helping to make trade with the developing world one of the  fastest growing
sectors of our economy. Whether it's Hong Kong or Honduras,  frequently the only
thing separating the local manager from his American  counterpart is one
generation. The opportunities have never been greater.  Respected leaders such
as President Salinas of Mexico are calling for "trade,  not aid." They are
opening their markets and ask that we do the same. Trade  is our best hope for a
prosperous future.

But while it is true that the majority benefits from increased trade, we  cannot
ignore those in this country who are at risk from foreign competition  (or from
increased immigration). All of us should be prepared to sacrifice to  assist the
working poor and invest in upgrading skills. The alternative,  protectionism,
simply is not viable. Paying U.S. workers First World wages for  Third World
jobs is unsustainable. Keeping developing nations poor by denying  them trade is
in no one's best interest.

The consequence of protectionism is not only higher consumer prices in the
United States, it also takes away hope from desperate people throughout the
world, leaving them with little to lose. The results are higher U.S. defense
budgets, increased worldwide environmental degradation and more refugees who
will compete for the very jobs being protected.

Christian van Schayk is an independent consultant specializing in the
development and transfer of information-based technologies and their
application to industrial productivity improvement.

LOAD-DATE: May 12, 1993

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DISTRIBUTION: PASCO TIMES

                            Times Publishing Company


                              145 of 187 DOCUMENTS

                         St. Petersburg Times (Florida)

                       May 23, 1993, Sunday, City Edition

The power of language // A call for a common language

BYLINE: WILLIAM C. ANDERSON

SECTION: PERSPECTIVE; Pg. 1D

LENGTH: 821 words



Dade County taxpayers received a "collect call" from foreign language  speaking
citizens and immigrants last week when the Dade County Commission  voted to
repeal the county's 13-year-old official common English ordinance.

And it could well be an open-ended call. While nearly all the publicity has
focused on the fact that nothing now stands in the way of having county
documents published in Spanish as well as English, how many other language
groups can we expect to step forth and demand that their language needs be met
by Dade County, too? How about the Haitians? The Vietnamese? The Lebanese? Are
not their "language rights" important as well?

Most Americans think English already is the official language of the United
States. Most Americans are surprised that you can vote, or get a driver's
license, without being able to understand English. Most Americans believe
immigrants who voluntarily come to the United States to share in the economic
opportunities and our personal, political and religious freedoms should
"adjust" to the predominant language of this country, not expect this  country
to accommodate theirs.

That's how it has been since the beginning of our republic more than 200  years
ago. What has changed - and why?

U.S. English, founded 10 years ago by the late Sen. S. I. Hayakawa of
California, has as its objective official action at federal, state and local
levels making English the common language of government. Hayakawa believed
then, as U.S. English's 500,000 members believe today, that it is vitally
important that this happen for a variety of reasons.

First, it is unfair and unreasonable to call upon hard-pressed taxpayers to  pay
for multilingual government. The recent Los Angeles mayoral election saw
ballots printed in six languages other than English at an additional cost of  $
900,000. As a radio talk show host in Washington, D.C., said, "That would  have
paid for a lot of English teachers."

Based on actual expenditures for carrying out Canada's bilingual mandate,  it is
not unreasonable to project that multilingualism costs to government in  the
United States could run more than $ 10-billion a year if we continue down  the
path many would have us follow in this country.

Second, this is an issue of economics. By not being "up-front honest"  with
immigrants and telling them to quickly learn to communicate in English,  they
will be sentenced to the bottom of the economic ladder. Those who lead  new
Americans to believe they don't really need to learn English do them a
disservice and doom them to perpetual economic disadvantage.

Nearly all jobs above the most menial require an ability to communicate in
English. The Dade County action reinforces the growing belief among immigrants
that you don't really need to learn a new language.

And, finally, this is an issue of unity and cooperation. One need only read  the
daily newspapers to know that this country has come to "worship" the  technology
of communication. Fiber optics, information superhighway, on-line  PC services -
on and on go the descriptions of our technological advances and  dreams. But
what do we gain in acquiring all this technology if we end up  rejecting, as
they did last week in Dade County, the most important tool of  communication - a
common language?

The question being asked in the wake of the Dade action is "What next?"

In that Florida voters adopted an official English amendment to their state
constitution several years ago, one would assume that the Dade County  officials
will be cautious in going so far as to declare the county officially  bilingual
or multilingual. To make certain of that, U.S. English members and  supporters
are now discussing with Florida state legislators what actions  might be taken
in Tallahassee to contain and counter what has happened in Dade  County.

In the U.S. Congress, we are redoubling our efforts to enact the "Official
Language of Government Act of 1993" - H.R. 123 in the House and S. 426 in the
Senate. Three Florida House members - Mike Bilirakis, R-Palm Harbor; Earl
Hutto, D-Panama City; and Tom Lewis, R-North Palm Beach - currently are
co-sponsors of H.R. 123.

We cannot continue to kid ourselves with statements like "It really  doesn't
matter" and "It's only symbolic anyway."

I wonder if those were the thoughts that went through the minds of the
representatives of the several states when they formed the country once known
as Yugoslavia. A common language there would have gone a long way toward
allowing people of diverse ethnic and religious backgrounds to reach a  peaceful
conclusion to their differences rather than have that diversity tear  their
country apart.

It's certainly something to ponder.

William C. Anderson is director of government relations for U.S. English.

CR: COLOR CARTOON, Clay Bennett

LOAD-DATE: May 25, 1993

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Man reading newspaper headline at street sales rack. It says, "TEST
SHOW STUDENTS LACKS RIGHTING SKILLS."

                            Times Publishing Company


                              146 of 187 DOCUMENTS

                         St. Petersburg Times (Florida)

                      May 25, 1993, Tuesday, City Edition

Daring run delivers immigrants

SOURCE: Compiled from Times Wires

SECTION: NATIONAL; Pg. 1A

LENGTH: 827 words

DATELINE: SAN FRANCISCO



In a daring swoop inside the Golden Gate Bridge in the middle of the night,  a
freighter dropped off about 200 illegal Chinese immigrants at a San  Francisco
Bay pier and then fled.

Scores of the illegal immigrants were rounded up on the Presidio and in
surrounding neighborhoods Monday morning as a flotilla of Coast Guard vessels
and aircraft chased the ship believed to have dumped them.

Coast Guard cutters chased the freighter, Pai Chang, which refused to halt
despite repeated radio and visual signals. An Air Force plane and two Coast
Guard helicopters circled the fleeing ship. Cutters caught up with it in
international waters about 70 miles off the coast and were escorting it back  to
port.

At least 169 of the immigrants were rounded up, many of them as they stood
around in a Fort Point parking lot about a quarter-mile from where they were
dropped off about 1:15 a.m.

Others were caught as they walked or rode through residential neighborhoods
packed in vehicles. Some were found on a golf course in Lincoln Park, said  U.S.
Park Police Sgt. Dale Smith.

The Coast Guard estimated the ship had dropped off about 200 people.

Although smuggling of illegal Chinese and other Southeast Asian immigrants  into
the United States and Canada is increasingly common, Monday morning's  affair
was particularly brazen.

"This operation was a little bit bolder than a typical operation," said  Steve
Roman of the Immigration and Naturalization Service. "It's the first  time I
know of that a mother vessel has put into port and off-loaded."

Normally, the human cargo in what officials describe as a sophisticated,
multimillion-dollar smuggling racket worldwide is brought ashore in smaller
boats from ships safely anchored in international waters.

The latest group of Mandarin-speaking Chinese seeking to sneak into the  United
States apparently left their homes on March 30, according to Jason Wu  of the
U.S. Park Police. They were described as well-dressed and apparently  healthy,
although weakened from their journey.

INS officers questioned the immigrants in the shadow of the Golden Gate  Bridge,
but Wu said: "They're pretty much reluctant to say anything. They're  scared."

Coast Guard Chief Warrant Officer Lance Jones said the smuggling drama was
detected at 10:15 p.m. Sunday, when Coast Guard radar picked up the freighter
as it approached the Golden Gate Bridge.

The ship failed to respond to repeated radio calls asking its identity - a
radio silence it continued as it sped away Monday - and the radar center
alerted the Coast Guard base in Marin County that an unidentified vessel was
entering bay waters.

The Pai Ching passed under the bridge at 12:25 a.m. and docked at the old  Coast
Guard pier near Fort Point, former site of the Coast Guard's rescue  center and
regarded as one of the most highly restricted docks in the Bay.

The Coast Guard notified the Park Police, but when officers arrived less  than
45 minutes later, the ship already had unloaded and gone.

Authorities began a general search of the area after detaining a pickup  truck
loaded with seven immigrants, Jones said. He said officers saw about 150
immigrants in the parking lot. Half were detained immediately, while the rest
scattered into the woods.

"We just got lucky that we caught this big bunch all at once," said Smith  of
the Park Police.

Other suspects were caught on the Lincoln Park golf course, in the  exclusive
Sea Cliff neighborhood, and others along Presidio roadsides and in  the Marina
district.

"They were walking around in groups," Smith said. "Sometimes we'd drive  by and
say "All right, fellas, get in.' We just drove up to them and said "Get  in the
van' and they got in."

The detainees were taken by bus to the U.S. Border Patrol's detention  center in
Pleasanton. Roman said they probably would be sent to the INS jail  outside
Bakersfield, where they will be processed for return home.

Later Monday, the parking lot where the group was arrested remained  littered
with purses, backpacks, cans of food with Chinese labels,  undergarments and a
map of the United States.

Five vehicles, apparently there to deliver the illegal arrivals to the next
stop in the smuggling route, were impounded.

Roman of the INS said the arrests were an important breakthrough because  agents
were able to apprehend recruiters and mainland contacts of the  smuggling ring.

Several hundred illegal Chinese immigrants have reached San Francisco by  sea
over the past two years and an unknown number have slipped into the  country by
providing fake passports at the airport, said Jon Wu, an immigrant  attorney.

Authorities believe Chinese pay up to $ 30,000 for passage by international
smuggling rings operated by gangs or organized crime groups in Asia, possibly
Hong Kong.

- Information from AP and San Francisco Examiner was used in this report.

LOAD-DATE: May 26, 1993

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: COLOR PHOTO, Associated Press; BLACK AND WHITE PHOTO, U.S. Coast Guard
via Associated Press; Illegal Chinese immigrants who sneaked into San Francisco
early Monday are held for processing by immigration officials.; A Coast Guard
cutter caught up with Pai Chang on Monday in international waters and was
escorting it back to port.

                            Times Publishing Company


                              147 of 187 DOCUMENTS

                         St. Petersburg Times (Florida)

                       May 28, 1993, Friday, City Edition

Don't shut out immigrants; make their life at home bearable

BYLINE: WILBUR G. LANDREY

SECTION: NATIONAL; Pg. 2A

LENGTH: 869 words

DATELINE: PARIS



One of the proudest promises of the Germany democracy that rose from the  ashes
of World War II was the constitutional right of political asylum  extended to
all who demanded it.

Some 800,000 Germans, many of them famous names in science, literature and  the
arts, fled the pre-war Nazi regime as refugees. Article 16 of the 1949  German
constitution was intended as a measure of both atonement and thanks.

Alas, since of the fall of the Berlin Wall in 1989, it has worked only too
well, opening the gates to a flood of economic migrants seeking not political
asylum but a better life.

Some 440,000 showed up in Germany last year. Only about 2 to 4 percent  finally
qualify for asylum, but pending appeals, they can remain at public  expense for
several years. On Wednesday, after a sometimes emotional and  searing debate
that has gone on for more than a decade, the Bundestag approved  a
constitutional amendment designed to contain the flood. The upper house
Bundesrat is expected to confirm it today.

As of July 1, refugees will have to apply for entry before coming. All  caught
without it will be expelled forthwith.

Doors are slamming shut all over Europe in an echo of the economic migrant
controversy that also has plagued the United States, first over "illegals"  from
Mexico, Central America and Haiti and most recently from the poorer  southern
provinces of China.

Under a new right-wing government, France, with considerably fewer  immigrants,
28,000 last year, also is tightening its restrictions with a new  law now under
critical examination for constitutionality by the advisory  Council of State.

France also has tightened its nationality provisions. No longer will a  child
born of foreign parents automatically acquire French citizenship at age  18. He
or she now will have to make the choice formally and officially.

Interior ministers of the 12 European Community nations will meet in  Copenhagen
next week under the rotating Danish presidency to consider  tightening border
controls and immigration policies. Barriers already have  been raised in
Austria, Denmark, the Netherlands and Switzerland.

In Germany, the flood of immigrants has provoked a nasty backlash of  attacks on
immigrants, some of them fatal, carried out by neo-Nazis and other  extremists
who make immigrants the scapegoats for the economic crisis and  social ills that
have come with the increasingly painful reunification begun  in 1990.

In a chilling footnote this week, 27-year-old neo-Nazi leader Ewald Althans
appeared in a Munich court on charges of denying the mass murder of Jews and
giving the Nazi salute. "I merely doubted the Holocaust," he told the judge,
who ruled that such doubts were legally permissible.

But even moderate Germans object to the costs of supporting illegal  immigrants,
despite counter-arguments that many of them will be needed to do  the work that
Germans won't do even in time of recession. Public opinion polls  say the new
law is approved by some 70 percent of Germans, a majority  reflected in
Wednesday's 551-to-132 vote in the Bundestag.

The largest group of migrants are Romanian Gypsies who, with the Jews, bore  the
brunt of Nazi extermination efforts 50 years ago. Stories are rife about  "Gypsy
barons" living on their welfare checks much as the "welfare queens"  were
alleged to do a few years ago in the United States.

Germany is paying Romania to take some back. Since most of the illegals  have to
transit Poland and the Czech Republic, Germany has a similar deal with  Poland,
also in return for payment, and is seeking one with the Czechs.

Nearly a generation of prosperity made Germany the economic powerhouse of
Europe whose wages and social benefits also made it a magnet for migrants. But
the German model has become increasingly uncompetitive. With output expected  to
decline in 1993, Germany is now likely now to face some lean years, years  that
could also become politically dangerous for the mainstream parties that  have
governed since World War II.

"Industry and the economy are stuck in a cost and innovation crisis, labor  in
an employment crisis, the political class in a credibility crisis and  society
in an orientation crisis," President Richard von Weizsaecker said in  a recent
speech.

The ultimate question is whether Germany will remain the anchor of Western
European unity or see its strategic interests elsewhere.

In a world where the rich grow richer and the poor poorer, mass migrations
could well become the nightmare of the next century. In a recent article in
Foreign Affairs Quarterly, Pierre Lellouche, an adviser to conservative French
leader Jacques Chirac, raised the spectre of a Third World of some 4-billion
people in the Southern Hemisphere facing some "500-million aging Europeans
already in a squall of demographic depression."

Barriers against the flow won't suffice. The better and maybe only answer  lies
in urgent and energetic measures to make life bearable "down on the  farm" where
the poor masses live. But again, as in the problem of a worsening  environment,
none of the present world leaders is leading the way.

LOAD-DATE: May 28, 1993

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: COLUMN

                            Times Publishing Company


                              148 of 187 DOCUMENTS

                         St. Petersburg Times (Florida)

                       June 7, 1993, Monday, City Edition

Seven die as ship runs aground

SOURCE: Compiled from Times Wires

SECTION: NATIONAL; Pg. 1A

LENGTH: 751 words

DATELINE: NEW YORK



U.S. immigration officials had feared such a disaster. They've seen a  steadily
rising tide of ships jammed with illegal Chinese immigrants coming to  American
shores, as Chinese desperate for a better life pay black-market  prices for
passage to the United States.

Early Sunday morning, in dark and cold Atlantic waters, hundreds of illegal
immigrants - some wearing business suits, some in their underwear - jumped  into
the chilly surf when a smuggling ship ran aground near New York.

At least seven people died, including four who drowned. About 30 others  were
taken to hospitals, most for treatment of exposure or hypothermia,  officials
said.

More than 200 people fled the ship and about 100 others were taken ashore  from
the freighter. Officials were looking for about 25 people believed still  at
large.

Refugees told police the ship made several stops in China to pick up
passengers. New York apparently was their intended destination. Those not
hospitalized were held by immigration authorities.

"It looked almost like the movie about the invasion of Normandy," said  police
Detective Ming Li, who arrived shortly after the 150-foot freighter  Golden
Venture ran aground at 2 a.m. EDT.

Some swam and waded to shore clutching plastic bags of belongings. Others  rode
the surf in, using plastic jugs as makeshift floats. Many had to be  fished out
of 53-degree ocean waters off Rockaway peninsula in the borough of  Queens.
Medical workers reported treating 328 people at the scene.

Most of the immigrants were young men. About 20 were women.

The freighter hit a sandbar about 200 yards off a seaside park, near a  Coast
Guard station. Police were investigating whether the ship beached itself
intentionally to off-load its human cargo.

Most aboard were from China's Fujian province and had been at sea about 100
days, said William Slattery, director of the Immigration and Naturalization
Service in New York.

A 27-year-old immigrant from the city of Fuzhou in Fujian province said he  and
the others panicked when the ship ran aground.

"We completely didn't know what was happening," said the man, who would  not
give his name.

He jumped from the ship, and said it felt like "there was no one to save  us."
But a rescuer helped him ashore.

The man said the boat had been at sea for more than three months but he  didn't
know where it had been.

"Some days there was food, some days there wasn't," he said, speaking  Mandarin.
"It was very hard to get water to drink."

Immigration officials report a thriving trade in Chinese immigrants  attempting
to sneak into the United States, aided by smugglers who charge  $ 20,000 to $
35,000 per person. More than 1,800 illegal Chinese aliens have  been caught
since January.

Slattery said the Golden Venture was the 24th known shipload of Chinese  aliens
to reach U.S. waters in the past two years, but the first in New York.

He said a new federal task force was approved by the White House last week  "to
shut this traffic down."

Sunday's wreck was merely the latest and worst in a series of incidents
involving illegal smuggling of Chinese immigrants.

On May 24, 240 Chinese immigrants were dropped by a freighter beneath the
Golden Gate Bridge in San Francisco, thrusting the surge in Chinese alien
smuggling into the national spotlight.

Thirty-seven women aboard one smuggling ship said they were raped by crew
members last year en route to the United States.

A fishing boat nearly sank last fall while attempting to ferry 160 Chinese  to
Long Beach, Calif.

Very few Chinese can afford the thousands of dollars demanded by the
"snakeheads," or smugglers. So those who yearn for a better life in the  United
States borrow from relatives, friends and even neighbors.

Some want more political or religious freedom, or to escape from the  tyranny of
the village Communist Party secretary, but the most powerful force  usually
appears to be the yearning for a better life.

They may carry with them an entire village's hopes for a better future, for  if
the migrant prospers in the United States he will send back money and help
others migrate as well.

Many of the boat people are peasants, especially young men. The per capita
income for peasants in China is only about $ 125 a year, and land is so scarce
that most can look forward to farming only a fraction of an acre.

- Material from AP, Reuters and the New York Times was used in this report.

LOAD-DATE: June 8, 1993

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: COLOR PHOTO, Associated Press, (2); The illegal immigrants were
escorted off the freighter that ran aground near New York.; Many huddled under
blankets on the beach in the early-morning chill.

                            Times Publishing Company


                              149 of 187 DOCUMENTS

                         St. Petersburg Times (Florida)

                      July 3, 1993, Saturday, City Edition

a home away from home

BYLINE: SHARON KIRBY LAMM

SECTION: RELIGION; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1707 words



Many miles from their native lands, small groups of immigrants around the  Tampa
Bay area are finding fellowship at church services conducted in their  native
languages.

Ethnic congregations meet weekly to share Scripture and spiritual messages  in
languages other than English. Worshipers come from Pinellas and neighboring
counties for the opportunity to speak the languages of their ancestors and
rebuild the sense of community lost when they left their native countries.

The demand for such services is big - and growing. Between 1975 and 1992,
Pinellas County received more refugees from Southeast Asia - 2,669 - than any
other Florida county. Hillsborough was third with 1,371. Hundreds of other
immigrants have come from Eastern Europe, Latin America, Africa and elsewhere.

Here are profiles of three bay area ethnic congregations that are among  many
such groups in the region.

A silver lining

Dr. Ching Hwang and Joseph Hsieh, both from Taiwan, found a silver lining  in
the dark clouds of a thunderstorm about two years ago.

The storm prevented them and some other members of Seminole First Baptist
Church from making scheduled visits to congregation members. Instead, they sat
talking. As they talked, the idea of organizing a local Chinese-language
worship service was born.

A steering committee was established, Hwang said. Organizers placed ads in
several publications, including a local Chinese association newsletter and a
Chinese newspaper published in New York. They placed an announcement in  Chinese
characters on the church's marquee on busy Park Boulevard. They made  calls to
Chinese names in the local telephone book and they sent out letters.

Hwang, a dentist, told his Chinese clients about the planned  Chinese-language
services, and Hsieh (pronounced SHAY), a dental technician,  also helped spread
the word.

Eventually, their work paid off.

Their first service was early in March, and the group has continued to grow
steadily since then.  It meets at 10:50 a.m. in the fellowship hall, and
attendance usually runs between 15 and 30. The Rev. Harry Liang, 78, from
Lakeland, brings a message in Chinese the first and third Sunday of each  month.
On alternating Sundays, the Rev. Darrell Hudson, Seminole First  Baptist's
associate pastor, speaks in English while Hwang and Hsieh translate  into
Chinese.

The group uses bilingual Chinese hymnals and Bibles. Having the services
presented in Chinese and English has proved a blessing for Chinese immigrants
with young children who speak primarily English, and with mixed couples, where
one member is Chinese and one American.

"Not any family member is lost in coming here," Hwang said.

Hudson said the services provide "a good balance between Pastor Liang's
Oriental . . . culture and my American background."

The services draw "a good mix of ages and types of people," and those  attending
are developing friendships and getting to know each other better,  Hudson said.

Although more than 7,000 Chinese-Americans live in the Tampa Bay area,  "for
about seven years, there hadn't been a Chinese worship service in  Pinellas
County," Hudson said.

Hwang said the services let immigrants understand that they can worship  freely
here. Today in China, "Christians can go to church, but the people  still are
scared" because of repression there, he said.

"Also, it is good news to let (Chinese people who come to this country)  know
what God has done for us. It is important for personal life, family life  and
for the future to know God and Jesus Christ."

The entire congregation has been very supportive of the Chinese services,
Hudson said. Hwang, who has been in the United States 11 years, and Hsieh, who
has been here 10 1/2 years, both live in Seminole and are deacons at Seminole
First Baptist, which has about 800 members.

Hwang said there are no plans to begin a separate Chinese congregation.  "The
steering committee's ideology is, as large as this gets, it's still  going to be
a part of this church. The idea is to minister to Chinese people  as an arm of
Seminole Baptist Church."

Fellowship and community

Three services are offered simultaneously at 11 a.m. each Sunday at Norwood
Baptist Church in St. Petersburg. In addition to the English-speaking service,
weekly worship is conducted in Cambodian/Laotian and for Philippino/Americans.

"We just try to meet the needs of the people in our (surrounding)  community,"
said the Rev. William R. Topping, senior pastor for seven years.  He described
the area around the 68-year-old church as "sort of a locked-in  community. We do
not sit on a major thoroughfare."

About a dozen years ago, he said, many Cambodian and Laotian refugees  arrived
in the area, and the congregation began services for them. "Our  community
became Asian, so to speak, and that led us to the Asian ministry,"  Topping
said.

"In the early days, we helped the families with food, furniture, jobs,
education and interpretation. We began a ministry to the children, with
"backyard Bible clubs,' vacation Bible schools and recreation programs.

"It grew from that. We met the adults and brought them in. Then we called  a
pastor (for that group). Being a church, we're going to minister in the name  of
the Lord Jesus Christ, but we try to meet both the spiritual and physical
needs."

The active membership of the church is about 190, Topping said. That number
includes about 55 Cambodian and Laotian members of the church, and 30
Philippino/American members.

Most of the Philippinos are immigrants, and the fellowship with other
Philippinos is extremely important to them, Topping said.

Adults meet in three separate services, but all of the children join  together
for activities. "The children are westernized," Topping said. "The  kids get
along with one another. Kids don't see color or racial barriers, they  just see
kids."

The Rev. Kevin Kane, pastor of the Asian ministry at Norwood, said the
Cambodian/Laotian members "enjoy being together and having the support of
people from the same country and the same culture."

"The community tends to live close together and be together a lot. There  are a
lot of activities going on at the church, which gives the opportunity  for times
of fellowship, not just on special occasions and celebrations, but  several
times each week."

Kane said the church offers weekly fellowship group meetings, as well as
services on Sundays. "Two or three times a week, they are together for
fellowship and social contact, which is so important and which isn't always
available to them in the community," he said.

"A good feeling" for immigrants

When Romanian immigrant Emil Stanesu in Dunedin asked members of First  Baptist
Church of Dunedin to provide a meeting place for a Romanian-speaking
congregation, they agreed to make a room available.

At first, organizers each weekend brought people from an existing  congregation
in Hollywood, Fla., to help get the congregation started, said  the Rev. Wayne
Earnest, senior pastor of the church. "They looked up Romanian  names in the
local telephone book and called them," he said. "We got census  data which said
there were more than 1,600 Romanians in Pinellas County."

Before the Dunedin congregation began meeting in early March, there was no
Romanian worship service in Pinellas County, said the Rev. Titus Sfarlea, 56,
who moved from Hollywood to Dunedin in February to pastor the Romanian
congregation.

From that beginning, the group has grown to about 20, meeting from 10:45  a.m.
to about 1 p.m. each Sunday. Now the 1,100-member congregation of  Dunedin's
First Baptist Church is supporting the Romanian mission financially,  paying
Sfarlea's salary.

"We like to help them economically, socially and religiously," Earnest  said.

The American and Romanian congregations have had several joint services.  "It is
a lot of fun to hear them sing in Romanian," said Earnest, who has  been senior
pastor of the church for 10 years. "We don't understand (the  words) but we
understand the tune."

Starting a new life in the United States is difficult, said Sfarlea, who  came
to the United States 13 years ago from Romania.

"It is hard to find a job. This church provides a good feeling (for the
Romanian immigrants). I tell the people we come here not to do politics - we
are looking only for fellowship and for a good life with God. We are at home
here.

"People come who like to talk in the Romanian language," he said, adding  that
many of the Romanians living here "didn't go to church" before the  Dunedin
group began meeting.

Sfarlea was pastor of the First Romanian Baptist Church in Detroit for five
years, then was on a three-year mission in Canada. He later worked for the
Ontario Baptist Convention, starting new churches, before moving to Hollywood
to help begin churches in Florida.

The Romanian service is the first other-language mission the Dunedin
congregation has begun, although it has sponsored several new Baptist
congregations that are English-speaking.

"This great big church . . . open their hearts and hands to help our  mission,"
Sfarlea said. "We feel we are at home here.

"We like to have (services) in the Romanian language so we understand more  of
the Bible and prayer. Probably the next generation, our children, will
participate in American churches. (The adults) like to talk in Romanian to  help
each other to understand American society more, and to be part of this
society."

Worshipers include a wide range of ages. During times of fellowship,  Sfarlea
said, the adults speak in Romanian and the children speak in English.

"Titus and his people are some of the most dedicated people I've worked  with,"
said Earnest, describing the hard work that the small congregation is  doing to
increase membership and minister to those attending. "They never  meet for less
than two hours."

Earnest said working with the Romanian-speaking worshipers has been a  pleasure
"because of the commitment of these people. I think the Lord is  going to
continue to bless the work."

LOAD-DATE: July 3, 1993

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: COLOR PHOTO, JOHN P. JONES; COLOR PHOTO, JOAN KADEL FENTON; COLOR
PHOTO, SCOTT KEELER; The Rev. Kevin Kane speaks to an Asian group at Norwood
Baptist Church in St. Petersburg.; The Rev. Titus Sfarlea; The Rev. Harry Liang,

 78, from Lakeland, brings a message in Chinese to worshipers at the Seminole
First Baptist Church in Seminole.

                            Times Publishing Company


                              150 of 187 DOCUMENTS

                         St. Petersburg Times (Florida)

                       July 4, 1993, Sunday, City Edition

America's welcome center is a well worth a visit

SOURCE: St. Louis Post Dispatch; Providence Journal

SECTION: TRAVEL; Pg. 1E

LENGTH: 1938 words

DATELINE: NEW YORK



For 32 years, it was the most welcome sight in the lives of more than
14-million people.

Even the Statue of Liberty, gleaming nearby, took second place to the brick
buildings of Ellis Island, where immigrants from Europe would take their first
steps on U.S. soil.

Ellis Island today is a national park and immigration museum, one of the
must-see sights on any tour of New York.

For more than 100-million Americans, it's a sentimental journey, a visit  with
the memories of their grandparents, great-grandparents or great-great
grandparents, a chance to relive the first hours or days that their forebears
spent in this country.

Ellis Island was opened in 1892, after the federal government took  regulation
of immigration from the states during the 1880s and enacted the  Immigration Act
of 1891, which established the Bureau of Immigration.

The flood of Eastern Europeans had caused some critics to seek tighter
standards; a few were introduced, but the Open Door remained open.

Before the center was built on Ellis Island, replacing a naval gunpowder
storage depot, New York-bound Europeans landed at Castle Garden, now the site
of the ferry departure point.

Nothing in history matches the tide of immigration that flowed to the  United
States.

In 1790, the first national census determined a non-Indian population of
3.9-million people, about 80 percent from England and northern Europe, the
remainder of African origin.

After the Napoleonic Wars, crossing the Atlantic became more common. About
600,000 people came from 1820 to 1840, mainly from England and Ireland. But in
the next 20 years, five times that many arrived, mostly Germans, Austrians,
Hungarians and Irish.

Following a decade-long lull for the Civil War and the start of  Reconstruction,
immigration picked up again with heavy concentrations of  French-Canadians,
Scandinavians and the first Asians, who landed primarily in  San Francisco.

The largest influx of eastern Europeans came between 1880 and 1920 - about
23-million Italians, Russians, Poles and Slavs mainly.

At that time, Ellis Island handled 71 percent of all immigrants; the rest  came
through such ports as Boston, San Francisco, Norfolk, Va., and Key West.

During the '30s and throughout World War II, the island was used as a  detention
site for undocumented workers, criminals (such as Lucky Luciano)  awaiting
deportation and others. It processed its last immigrant in November  1954.

Ellis Island itself covered only three acres in early surveys by the Dutch,  and
it had several names before it was bought by Samuel Ellis, who built a  tavern
for picnickers and fishermen there after the Revolution.

After Ellis' death, New York State acquired it in 1808 and sold it to the  U.S.
government for $ 10,000. With the building of the Immigration Depot, more  land
was needed, and arriving ships dumped ballast as fill. New York garbage  did the
rest, and today, the island covers 27.5 acres.

The brick and limestone buildings, with high, arched windows and copper  domes,
are three stories tall. From the dock, with the eagerness of their  ancestors
but without the trepidation, today's visitors stream toward the Main  Hall,
duplicating the path taken by millions.

Though, as it turned out, only 2 percent of all those newcomers were denied
entry to America's "golden shores," Ellis Island was a fearsome place: the
place where the past - in a Russian village, or a Polish ghetto or the
cluttered alleyways of Genoa - was to be left behind forever, and a new life,
one hoped, embarked on.

The weary travelers, in kerchiefs and fur hats and wilted clothes, had just
spent two weeks in steerage or in third-class cabins deep in the bowels of
transatlantic liners.

The wealthier immigrants, able to pay $ 60 to $ 80 for a cabin, never had to
suffer the ignominy of being herded into the barrel-vaulted baggage room of  the
Ellis Island facility, and climbing the stairs under the eagle-eye of  medical
men searching for defects that might send them back.

First-class and second-class passengers were given their physical exams on
shipboard as soon as their vessel entered New York Harbor, and then - if all
was well - were taken directly to the shore.

But the steerage passengers, once they had been ferried to Ellis Island,  were
asked to leave their luggage in the luggage room and proceed with  processing.
Fearful of losing their only possessions, many refused, and  dragged their
bundles with them during the clearance process.

Up the wide main staircase they would be ordered. At its top, doctors  watched
to see if they were breathing heavily from the exertion. If so, they  were
likely to be marked in chalk with "H" for heart disease.

If they limped climbing the stairs, the chalk mark was "FT" for foot. For
pregnant women, "PG" was used. Eyelids were lifted with buttonhooks to see  if
there was redness underneath, an indication that the immigrant might have
trachoma, a contagious and sometimes fatal eye disease then rampant in  southern
and central Europe.

The terrified, mystified new arrivals - if they passed physical and mental
tests - then entered the labyrinth of the Registry Room. Winding their way  from
desk to desk, they were asked their place of origin, their skills, if  they had
children, a sponsor. Where did they wish to settle?

If they were admitted to America, a railway office on the premises could
provide them with tickets to anywhere in the country. At a money exchange,
their few shekels or lira or crowns would become dollars.

They would descend the Staircase of Separation and say their farewells to  the
friends they had made on the arduous voyage. Then, at the Kissing Post,  those
with relatives or acquaintances already in America would be met, and
representatives of ethnic groups would be on hand to offer a tardy welcome to
others who knew no one.

Neither single women nor children were allowed to leave until there was
assurance, in the form of a prepaid ticket to somewhere, or a telegram saying
they were expected. Women were not allowed, either, to depart in the company  of
a man who was not a relative - prompting some who were awaited by fiances  to
marry them then and there.

For those who were detained, there were two white-tiled dormitory rooms,  empty
today of the three-tier bunk beds that once filled them. Each held 300  people,
and though 80 percent of Ellis Island arrivals left on the day they  landed,
that other 20 percent might be kept for this reason or that for  several weeks.

There were also, of course, those who were ill - too ill to be sent back.  For
them, a 125-bed hospital was opened in 1902 and expanded time and time  again.
By 1911, there were 15 medical buildings on the little island.

The main floor is huge and the National Park Service has wisely left it as  open
as it was in its busiest times. A giant pile of antique luggage serves as  a
centerpiece and as a moment of history strong enough to cause a sudden  intake
of breath, an equally sudden stop.

Bags and boxes, satchels, suitcases and steamer trunks in all sizes and  shapes,
in carefully placed disarray, are reminders of the days when the  immigrants
were told to leave their baggage on the ground floor.

While the museum was in the building process, a call went out for people  who
wanted to share, either actually or in conversation, their histories,  their
memories. Thousands volunteered. Now, around the low glass wall that  protects
the baggage, telephone receivers allow today's visitors to hear  yesterday's
immigrants in recordings talk about their experiences on their  arrival in the
Promised Land.

Also, souvenirs and mementos were collected for the museum. While an old
railroad timetable or a worn-out passport would seem to have no value, they
symbolize precious memories, saved and protected for generations.

Photo murals hang above the exhibit, showing various scenes from Ellis  Island
in all the moods it created - fear, anticipation, joy, panic, dismay.  Behind
it, in another giant room, is a series of three-dimensional graphs and  charts
that show the history of immigration. Brightly colored and easy to  follow, they
illustrate the patterns and the backgrounds of those who came  here to find the
promise of the Declaration of Independence - life, liberty  and the pursuit of
happiness.

In showcase after showcase, the drama of the immigrant experience is  recounted
in words and pictures and artifacts. Excerpts from diaries recount  "I thought I
was in Heaven. I'd never seen a building like the Immigration  Building. I had
to cry," and "It's over. It's a miracle. I am in a free  land. It means more to
me than my native land."

A note from a Swedish immigrant recalls that "most dear to my family are  the
shoes my mother wore when she first set foot on the soil of America. You  must
see them to appreciate the courage my parents had and the sacrifices they
made."

Two giant displays dominate the first-floor room. One is an American flag.
Looked at from one angle, it's a flag; seen from another, it's a mosaic of  some
750 portraits, faces of Americans from every ethnic background. The other  is a
globe covered with streams of lights that mark immigration patterns  through the
centuries as people moved to new lands, embraced new countries.

The stairs to the second floor and the Registry Room, or Great Hall, are  new,
as is much of the lighting, but everything else has been restored, and  still
looks as it did in the early 1920s, dominated by its two-story-high  ceiling.

Even the long benches are the same as the ones on which the immigrants sat.  The
ground floor may be more dramatic in terms of sweep and scope, but the  second
and third floors are the spaces of intimate memory.

Again, photo murals are used to great effect, showing immigrants in their  own
countries, at embarkation stops, aboard ship and in their early days in
America, both here and in other cities. Newspaper ads show available jobs or
the lures of an American destination. An 1885 clipping, for instance, points
out that California has almost 44-million acres and "a climate for health and
wealth without cyclones or blizzards."

Another area, one of the most touching, includes displays of family  histories -
Bibles and rosaries carried across the ocean, diaries of the  journey, a shawl,
a menorah, a tablecloth, a handmade quilt. All of it was  donated by
descendants, in a beautiful display of gratitude.

There isn't much mention of the thousands of Ellis Island workers who  soothed
the frightened or nursed the ill, nor of the others who herded  newcomers along
like so much cattle, or who changed foreign-sounding names to  something more
"American." One of the few remembrances is a mention that  Fiorello H.
LaGuardia, later mayor of the city from 1934-46, worked here from  1907 to 1910
as an interpreter in German, Italian and Croatian, using his  salary of $ 1,200
a year to help finance his law studies.

IF YOU GO

The Statue of Liberty/Ellis Island ferry leaves about every 30 minutes daily
from 9:30 a.m. to 4 p.m. from Battery Park in lower Manhattan. The round-trip
boat ticket, which includes admission to both sites, costs $ 6 for adults; $ 3
for children. Call (212) 269-5755.

N.Y. Convention and Visitors Bureau

SIGN UP: New arrivals passed through the Registry Room, where they were asked
their place of origin and where they wished to settle.

LOAD-DATE: July 5, 1993

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: COLOR PHOTO, N.Y. Convention and Visitors Bureau, (2); Ellis Island;
The Registry Room at the Ellis Island Welcome Center

                            Times Publishing Company


                              151 of 187 DOCUMENTS

                         St. Petersburg Times (Florida)

                July 10, 1993, Saturday, North Suncoast Edition

U.S. asks Mexico to help with aliens

SOURCE: Compiled from Times Wires

SECTION: NATIONAL; THE NATION; Pg. 6A

LENGTH: 229 words

DATELINE: SAN DIEGO



U.S. and Mexican military ships tracked a small fleet of suspected smuggling
vessels carrying Chinese immigrants off Mexico's Baja California coast Friday,
as the Clinton administration confronted a rapidly developing test of its
crackdown on illegal Chinese immigration.

The United States asked Mexico to accept more than 600 Chinese boat people  from
three of the ships and has offered to pay the costs to send back any who  are
not refugees, said department spokesman Joseph Snyder.

And now the total of approaching vessels has increased to seven, according  to
authorities who estimated the number of suspected immigrants aboard at as  high
as 1,500.

Most of the passengers on the ships were believed to be economic migrants
rather than seekers of political asylum, Snyder said.

There was no immediate response to the request from Mexico City.

The smugglers apparently planned to land in Mexico and spirit the  immigrants
across the Southwest border, a major clandestine route for illegal  Chinese,
officials said.

The approaching ships are the first detected since at least eight Chinese  died
in a desperate landing off New York last month. Shortly after that  incident,
Clinton announced a new plan to get tough on illegal immigration  from China.

- Information from the Los Angeles Times and Reuters was used in this report.

LOAD-DATE: July 10, 1993

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                            Times Publishing Company


                              152 of 187 DOCUMENTS

                         St. Petersburg Times (Florida)

                     July 10, 1993, Saturday, City Edition

Mexico refuses to help with aliens

SOURCE: Compiled from Times Wires

SECTION: NATIONAL; THE NATION; Pg. 3A

LENGTH: 272 words

DATELINE: WASHINGTON



In the first test of its vow to stop uncontrolled immigration, the White  House
on Friday asked Mexico to detain 659 Chinese aliens on three ships that  were
intercepted by the Coast Guard this week in international waters  southwest of
San Diego.

But Mexico rejected the idea.

The three ships are part of a fleet of seven on their way to the West Coast  to
smuggle the immigrants into the United States, Coast Guard officials said.

By intercepting the ships on the high seas, the Clinton administration  hopes to
send a signal to the 100,000 Chinese who try to enter the U.S.  illegally each
year.

The Mexican Foreign Ministry issued a statement late Friday rejecting the  U.S.
proposal. "The government of Mexico . . . is not able to accept the  proposal of
the United States government," the statement said.

It said Mexico will continue to respect international law and the human  rights
of those trying to enter its territory and provide "required  humanitarian
assistance, including the immediate repatriation to their country  of origin in
conditions of dignity and with respect for their human rights."

Mexico's rejection leaves the United States with a delicate and potentially
embarrassing international incident on its hands. It is one thing to send
Haitian refugees back to Haiti, as Washington has done, and quite another to
send Chinese thousands of miles back across the Pacific Ocean.

The plight of Chinese paying small fortunes for passage to the United  States
was highlighted June 6 when a ship spilled nearly 300 immigrants onto  New York
City's shores. At least eight died.

LOAD-DATE: July 10, 1993

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                            Times Publishing Company


                              153 of 187 DOCUMENTS

                         St. Petersburg Times (Florida)

                      July 13, 1993, Tuesday, City Edition

Reno: INS can't keep out dangerous immigrants

BYLINE: EILEEN SHANAHAN

SECTION: NATIONAL; THE NATION; Pg. 4A

LENGTH: 516 words

DATELINE: WASHINGTON



Attorney General Janet Reno thinks the Immigration and Naturalization Service
lacks both the capable managers and the money it needs to do an effective job
of keeping potentially dangerous immigrants out of this country.

"We've got to upgrade its management abilities, restore its credibility  and
develop it as a partner in law enforcement with the State Department and
foreign intelligence agencies," she said Monday. The agency is part of the
Department of Justice, which Reno heads.

"I'm not sure the Miami criminal justice system could have functioned"  during
the years she headed it, she said, "if its management capabilities and
resources had been at the level the INS had."

Public concern that INS is doing a poor job of barring entry to potentially
dangerous immigrants has risen sharply after the bombing of New York's World
Trade Center building and disclosure of a thwarted plot to bomb multiple sites
in New York City and carry out multiple assassinations here and abroad.
Immigrants, both legal and illegal, have been arrested for both crimes.

Reno also disclosed that her department is in the process of developing
stronger laws that would "at the same time, protect constitutional rights and
permit those to come who should be here but quickly exclude those who don't
belong here."  Among other answers she gave to questions in a meeting with a
small group of  reporters were these:

Investigators have completed their inquiry into allegations against FBI
Director William Sessions, which could cost him his job if substantiated. The
charges focus largely on Sessions' allegedly improper personal use of
government facilities and personnel. Similar charges have surfaced in recent
years against his most noted predecessor, the late J. Edgar Hoover.

Without mentioning Hoover, Reno said that among those she asked to review  the
investigators' report is a career civil servant "who understands the
traditions" of the FBI, and "he has said he is satisfied with it." Reno has  not
finished reading the report, she said.

She thinks there is "enough reason to believe that violence on television  is a
contributing factor" to violent behavior. But rather than legislating  against
TV violence, she would like to see "Americans let advertisers know  what they
would like to see on TV at what times."

She was frustrated in Florida over the failure of the Legislature to  provide
money for enough prison cells to house violent criminals for long  sentences. "I
would transfer a three-time armed robber to the federal system  where I knew I
could get him a 15-year federal mandatory, whereas I couldn't  in the state
system."

Now, as the nation's chief law enforcement officer, she "would like to  work
with state officials to make sure we get the truly violent recidivists  put away
for the rest of their crime-producing lives."

In response to a question, Reno also said she does not understand her huge
popularity. In Florida, "I got elected by very large margins, but I wasn't
gushed over like it is here."

LOAD-DATE: July 15, 1993

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: BLACK AND WHITE PHOTO; Janet Reno

                            Times Publishing Company


                              154 of 187 DOCUMENTS

                         St. Petersburg Times (Florida)

                      August 9, 1993, Monday, City Edition

Trip ended obscure life of Nazi guard

BYLINE: TIM GRANT

SECTION: HERNANDO TIMES; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 603 words

DATELINE: INVERNESS



   Had he not traveled to Europe last year, Alexander Schweidler might have
continued his life of obscurity here in this quiet, tree-lined community.

For more than a quarter century, Schweidler had concealed his service as a  Nazi
guard at the Mauthausen death camp until he was caught last August while  trying
to re-enter the United States after a trip to England.

The 71-year-old retired computer programer had returned to the United  States
and when immigration authorities in Jacksonville were processing his  passport,
Schweidler's name appeared on a list of people who should not be  allowed in.

"His name was matched to computerized information on a watch list. That's  what
triggered this whole investigation," said Ronnie Eddleman, assistant to  Neal
Sher, director of the Department of Justice's Office of Special  Investigations.

According to Eddleman, the watch list is maintained by the State Department  and
U.S. Customs Service to identify people who, for a variety of reasons,  should
not be allowed into the country.

Eddleman said Schweidler's name was added to the watch list when OSI  historians
uncovered documents naming guards at Hitler's concentration camps  where more
than 6-million Jews and other people were killed in a genocide  during World War
II.

When Schweidler first entered the U.S. with an immigrant visa in New York  City
on July 6, 1965, the list did not exist. The OSI has been in operation  only
since 1979.

Schweidler was born in what is now Slovakia in 1922 and joined the Waffen  SS in
1938. He told OSI attorneys that his orders were to guard the fence line  and
shoot any prisoner who tried to escape.

The document that put Schweidler's name on the watch list was one  Schweidler
signed on April 29, 1942, stating that he shot and killed two  prisoners the
previous day.

Carole Perl, a researcher at the Simon Wiesenthal Center in Los Angeles,  said
that after the fall of communism in Eastern Europe, Nazi documents  including
assignment records, payroll slips and work reports were seized.  Names on those
documents were added to the U.S. government's "lookout  lists," she said.

The government wants to deport Schweidler because he allegedly lied about  his
Nazi past when he entered the U.S.

Schweidler denies that, stating that he told authorities at the time about  his
wartime activities. He said last week that he will fight the deportation
proceedings. An initial hearing is likely to be held in Miami in the coming
weeks.

Schweidler and his wife Ann, 77, built their three-bedroom home at 1816
Caldwell St. in 1979. While they lived in New York, they rented the house, but
moved to Citrus County in 1984. They have a daughter who lives in Connecticut
but is reportedly in town helping her father prepare for his hearings.

OSI Director Sher said the deportation process could be lengthy.  Ordinarily,
Schweidler would be sent back to Britain, where he is a citizen,  but the U.S.
will consider any extradition requests that may come from  Austria, Israel or
other nations, Sher said.

At least 122,000 Jews and other prisoners were known to have died at  Mauthausen
and its subcamps during the Holocaust, but many thousands of  prisoners were
killed before they became registered at the camp.

Mauthausen was one of the most notorious concentration camps. Prisoners at
Mauthausen were subjected to the most grueling work, starved and beaten.  Unruly
prisoners or captured prisoners of other camps were delivered to  Mauthausen for
punishment by beating, hard labor, shooting or gassing.

LOAD-DATE: August 11, 1993

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DISTRIBUTION: HERNANDO TIMES; CITRUS TIMES; PASCO TIMES; NORTH PINELLAS TIMES

GRAPHIC: BLACK AND WHITE PHOTO; Alexander Schweidler (ran CI NT)

                            Times Publishing Company


                              155 of 187 DOCUMENTS

                         St. Petersburg Times (Florida)

                   September 9, 1993, Thursday, City Edition

Florida lawmakers against Cuba pact

BYLINE: BARRIE LYNN TAPIA

SECTION: NATIONAL; WASHINGTON; Pg. 14A

LENGTH: 181 words

DATELINE: WASHINGTON



Florida Republican Reps. Ileana Ros-Lehtinen and Lincoln Diaz-Balart have
denounced talk of a possible immigration pact between Cuba and the United
States, and called for a multilateral trade embargo instead.

In recent months, Cuban leader Fidel Castro has legalized foreign currency  and
also said he would allow Cuban exiles to visit Cuba in greater numbers.

The steps have fueled talk of an immigration pact, but Ros-Lehtinen and
Diaz-Balart complain that normalized relations between the two countries would
come at the wrong time.

"We believe that any conversations which take place will clearly benefit  only
the dictator and will not be in the interest of freedom-loving Americans  or
freedom-loving patriots anywhere in the world," Ros-Lehtinen said at a
Wednesday news conference.

Those opposed to the pact say if it is implemented, Cubans would lose their
political asylum status, thousands residing in the U.S. would become  deportable
and those entering through Guantanamo Naval Base, the sea or third  countries
would be returned to Cuba.

LOAD-DATE: September 9, 1993

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                            Times Publishing Company


                              156 of 187 DOCUMENTS

                         St. Petersburg Times (Florida)

                   September 20, 1993, Monday, City Edition
                              Correction Appended

Ex-Iraqi soldiers not streaming into U.S.

BYLINE: KARL VICK

SECTION: NATIONAL; Pg. 1A

LENGTH: 1732 words

DATELINE: WASHINGTON



Florida congressman Cliff Stearns maintains that America has become a haven  for
Saddam Hussein's troops.

To draw attention to an immigration situation he calls "bizarre," the  Ocala
Republican has held news conferences, joined with veterans organizations  and
gathered signatures from more than 80 members of Congress.

Last week, the ruckus prompted the U.S. Senate to condemn the settlement of
Iraqi POWs by voice vote. As the House prepares to take up the issue, Stearns
has a majority of the Florida delegation lined up behind him.

"The American people are angry," Stearns said at a recent news  conference.
"Everywhere I go, people come up to me and ask if these stories  they see in
their local newspapers are true.

"Are we really spending tens of millions of dollars to resettle in our  country
the soldiers our troops fought during Operation Desert Storm?"

The answer, it turns out, is probably not.

Refugees who clear immigration and settle in the United States do cost
taxpayers money, about $ 7,000 each, by official estimate.

But the image of surrendering Iraqis filing from the trenches of the gulf  war
onto boats for America is not an accurate one, according to the branches  of the
U.S. government closest to the matter.

The Defense Department, for instance, reports that almost all of the  perhaps
100,000 Iraqi soldiers captured when allied forces crossed enemy lines  in
February 1991 were soon sent back to Iraq.

Of the several thousand who remained in Saudi Arabian camps, most are still
there today. This year the United States has accepted 533 former soldiers as
certified refugees. But of those only nine were taken prisoner during the four
days when U.S. troops faced ground fire from Iraqis.

The nine are all Kurds, the minority population that fought in vain for
independence in the weeks after the war ended. Like the overwhelming majority
of the other former soldiers, they apparently lined up not against the allies,
but against Hussein.

"You're giving me information I was not aware of," said Dunnellon  Democrat
Karen Thurman, one of 13 members of Florida's congressional  delegation
(including C. W. Bill Young, a Republican who lives in Indian Rocks  Beach) who
joined Stearns in writing President Clinton to protest admitting  former Iraqi
prisoners.

Thurman said she signed the letter, which cites an overburdened Florida  system
and "potential terrorism," without researching who the refugees  actually are.

"I'm not on the committee" that handles refugee affairs, she explained.

Neither is Stearns, who did not respond to repeated requests by the Times  to
discuss the issue. But a detailed accounting of Iraqi immigration is as  close
as a telephone call to the State Department, whose office of refugee  programs
keeps track of who actually fills the annual admission quotas set by  the
president for each nationality.

President Clinton is scheduled to show Congress his proposed quotas for the
coming year this week. The quota for the fiscal year that ends this month was
set by President Bush. It calls for admitting about 4,600 Iraqis.

Of that total, 2,500 will be Kurds who escaped northern Iraq, far from  Kuwait,
and are processed through European refugee centers.

The remaining 2,100 will come from the only remaining Saudi camp. Most are
civilians displaced by the war and fearful of returning to Iraq.

According to the United Nations, each has met its definition of a refugee:  a
well-founded fear of prosecution when they return to their homeland, based  on
race, religion, nationality, membership in a specific social group or a
political opinion.

In Iraq, Saddam Hussein's government continues to jail, kill and otherwise
persecute members of minority religious groups, such as Muslims from the  Shiite
sect, as well as ethnic minorities such as the Kurds.

Stearns pointed out as much at his Sept. 9 news conference.

"In fact," he said, "one of the things I find most disturbing about this
situation is that these soldiers have arrived in the United States ahead of
some of the very people they were persecuting in Iraq."

But according to those who screen the refugees, the former soldiers are  being
admitted to the United States because they are members of the oppressed  groups.

Of the 533 refugees with military backgrounds admitted this year, the State
Department reports:

453 said they deserted their units before Iraq invaded Kuwait.

71 were ethnic or religious minorities who, before the ground war began,
escaped the front lines where they felt they had been posted as  "sacrifices."

The nine Kurds surrendered to allied ground forces after reading pamphlets
(planned at the psychological operations unit at MacDill AFB) urging them to
desert.

Of the front-line soldiers, almost all are members of groups that face
persecution in Iraq: Assyrian Christians, Chaldean Catholics, Kurds or Shiite
Muslims.

Of those who deserted before the Kuwaiti invasion, all but a handful said  they
later fought Hussein's troops during the Shiite uprising of March 1991.

"Are we going to be rewarding these people for fighting that war?" asked  Rep.
Michael Bilirakis, a Palm Harbor Republican who also signed the letter to
Clinton.

Yes, was the answer from President Bush. As president, Bush publicly  encouraged
the uprising when the gulf war ended with Hussein still in power  (but did not
permit U.S. forces to suppress Hussein's helicopter gunships,  which cut down
the uprising after days of heavy fighting).

The defeated dissidents fled to Saudi Arabia, technically becoming  prisoners of
war when they entered the zone controlled by allied troops. When  the U.N. High
Commissioner for Refugees determined that the rebel soldiers  could not safely
return to Iraq, he asked other countries to take them in.

About 300 were among the 3,400 Iraqis the United States admitted in fiscal
1992, a State Department official said. Rebels account for a similar  proportion
of this year's quota.

"All those people that participated in the uprising, whether the Shiite
uprising or the Kurdish uprising, they helped the U.S. to weaken Saddam,"  said
a former Iraqi army sergeant who recently arrived in the country.

"There is a maxim in the Arab world that the enemy of your enemy is your  ally.
I'm the enemy of Saddam Hussein, so the U.S. is my friend."

The former sergeant spoke in the bedroom of a suburban Washington group  home
where he has lived for two months (after more than two years in the Saudi
camps). Because his wife and five children live in Baghdad, and because his
first name is not common, he asked to be identified as Ahmed, the name of his
son.

Ahmed said he left his Kalishnikov rifle in the trench where he was posted  for
six months and walked the 13 miles to the Saudi border, waving his  undershirt
on a stick to surrender to two U.S. tanks. A veteran of the  Iran-Iraq war, he
had obeyed a call-up the day Kuwait was invaded, and was  assigned to an
infantry battalion in the corner of Iraq between Kuwait and  Saudi Arabia.

A month of allied bombings had not broken his spirit, Ahmed said, but when  he
heard of other deserters being accepted in Saudi Arabia, he decided he  could
not fight for Hussein when the cause was not "righteous." He also knew  Shiites
were often sacrificed to the front lines.

His two years in the Saudi tents was wretched, he said. No Middle Eastern
country except Iran will settle the refugees, and the United Nations confirms
that several have died at the hands of their Saudi guards, who are hostile to
Shiites.

But gaining entry to the United States was not easy, either. Ahmed said he  sat
for four interviews, including a six -our marathon with the U.S.  Immigration
and Naturalization Service.

The INS examiner asked directly if he had engaged in combat with U.S.  troops.
As evidence he had not, Ahmed produced the 3x5 "Enemy Prisoner of War  Identity
Card" the Army issued on his date of capture, Feb. 15, 1991, more  than a week
before the ground war began.

As for others, he said through a translator, "very few people in the Iraqi  army
participated in the war against the Americans. But I believe they would  lie if
they wereasked. It is human nature. Anybody would, to be able to come  to the
United States."

An INS spokesman emphasized that its examiners are trained with that
presumption foremost in mind.

"If you just accepted self-serving statements, everybody in the world  would
qualify for refugee status," said Duke Austin, the spokesman. "We have  refugee
examiners who try to take in the totality of evidence."

Although Austin said INS, a branch of the Justice Department, does not  keep a
count of denials "because they never enter the system," Ahmed  recalled "many,
many" applicants being turned down. He said his examiners  compared his
statements from all four interviews for consistency.

"They were very skeptical," he said. "They said Saddam sends spies that  pretend
to be refugees."

In fact, the current flap over Iraqi immigration may be fueled partly by  the
World Trade Center bombing. Relief officials say they sense a backlash in
recent months, especially against Arabs.

"Everybody unfortunately is being lumped into the group that bombed the  World
Trade Center, and that's not fair," said Don Hammond of World Relief,  which
places refugees for the National Association of Evangelicals.

For his part, Stearns has noted the possibility of terrorism. But what  first
drew him to the issue was the rage of Hester Adcock.

The Ocala woman watched her son Michael die a year after returning from  service
in the gulf war. When the cancers that took his life at age 22 were  declared
"service related" after his death, it was a bitter epilogue to her  vain fight
with the veteran's system for medical care.

Adcock had worked with Stearns' office on that battle, and so she brought  him
reports of Iraqi POW immigration that had been passed along by another  Desert
Storm activist who was also offended by the implication.

She said the assurances of the State Department and the INS mean nothing to
her.

"They're not to be trusted," Adcock said. "No. No. Send them, every last  one,
back.

"Take care of our own first."

LOAD-DATE: September 28, 1993

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

CORRECTION-DATE: September 25, 1993

CORRECTION:
 Hester Adcock, whose son served in the Persian Gulf war and died of
service-related cancer, advocates returning Iraqi refugees to Saudi Arabia and
Kuwait. A quotation in a Sept. 20 article about ex-Iraqi soldiers entering the
United States as refugees may have left her position unclear.

GRAPHIC: BLACK AND WHITE PHOTO; Rep. Cliff Stearns

                            Times Publishing Company


                              157 of 187 DOCUMENTS

                         St. Petersburg Times (Florida)

                     October 22, 1993, Friday, City Edition

West flaunts its wealth, shuts door

BYLINE: REENA SHAH STAMETS

SECTION: NATIONAL; THE WORLD; GLOBAL VILLAGE; Pg. 12A

LENGTH: 924 words



We live in a world where 80-million people have uprooted themselves to  settle
in countries that are safer, freer or richer than their own. They are
immigrants, illegal aliens, factory and farm workers, and nearly one-fourth  are
refugees.

Another 25-million are displaced within their own countries, uprooted by  war
and natural disasters.

International law gives people the right to flee political persecution and  to
be sheltered in other countries. But why not get at the root of the problem  and
pass new laws to guarantee people the right to freedom, safety and the  means to
earn a livelihood in their own countries, eliminating the need for  escape?

German Chancellor Helmut Kohl recently hinted at the need to create such a
system. "No one is served when millions of people leave their homeland and go
somewhere else," he said in a speech. "In that somewhere else, there are  people
living who have their own rights."

Germany, a homogeneous country of 80-million people, has 1-million refugees  -
most of them still waiting to be screened. It had a liberal asylum policy
(revoked this year) that attracted these foreigners, but no tradition of
absorbing them (as immigration-born countries like the United States,  Australia
and Canada do). The presence of foreigners has sparked a surge in  neo-Nazi
violence. There have been 1,400 attacks against foreigners already  this year.

The problem with Kohl's solution is that it is more utopian and harder to
enforce than the troublesome refugee laws. International charters already
declare that freedom and equality are fundamental rights, but people and
governments routinely violate them.

Who is going to keep the peace in countries where governments oppress their
people? The United Nations, which cannot even prevail on member nations to
vaccinate all their children? The United Nations is only as strong as its
members want it to be, and there is a long history of offending governments
simply protesting that others have no right to interfere in their internal
affairs.

Who else is going to play headmaster to the world? The United States and
Western European countries, which are stable, wealthy and have strong armies?

Look at Somalia and Bosnia. They are both recent instances in which we  watched
and wrung our hands as the carnage got worse. We sent troops to  Somalia
reluctantly and very quickly found out that democracy as we know it  could not
be brought overnight to an anarchic country of impoverished nomads.  We have
certain proof that Bosnian Muslims are victims of genocide, but we  don't want
to mess with the former Yugoslavia.

Some conflicts do get resolved, but they take years of tortuous  negotiations
and generous amounts of military and economic aid to clean up.  But the burden
doesn't shrink. New conflicts spring up. Last year, 2-million  Afghan and
Cambodian refugees returned to their home countries. As many new  refugees were
created by fighting in the former Yugoslavia and in former  Soviet republics.

Bill Frelick, an analyst at the U.S. Committee for Refugees, a Washington
advocacy group, says there is a lot of hypocrisy in the apathy and blame  heaped
on refugees. There is clear proof that Bosnian Muslims are facing a  genocide,
he says, but the world does nothing.

"We can intervene, but people are not willing to do that," Frelick says.  "Or we
can send them arms so they have the means to defend themselves. We  don't want
to do that. The only other option people in this situation have is  to leave,
and we won't let them escape.

"Does it solve the problems of the Bosnian Muslims to tell them not to  flee and
be killed off?"

Think for a moment what the world would have had on its conscience if  countries
had refused to open their borders eventually to Jews escaping Nazi  Germany. Or
if America had rejected the 2-million people who fled famine and  poverty in
19th century Ireland. They would not meet our tough, modern  definition of
refugees.

But, one might argue, massive migrations were possible a century ago; our
societies are too crowded now to absorb large numbers of people from another
culture. The neo-Nazi movements blooming in various European countries are  just
an expression of anger by people who feel their culture is being swamped  by
outsiders. They want other countries to share more of the burden.

Statistics show otherwise. Many poor countries shelter a hugely
disproportionate number of refugees. One in 200 people in France, and one in
780 in Germany, is a refugee. In the United States, the most generous of
Western nations in absorbing refugees, one in 160 is a refugee.

Compare this burden to Malawi, with a per capita income of under $ 200 a  year,
where one in eight people is a refugee from Mozambique. In Jordan, one  in four
people is an uprooted Palestinian.

The real difficulty is that it is hard to judge whether someone is fleeing  for
political or economic reasons. Political outcasts can be denied jobs or  food
rations under a dictatorship. Should they wait till they barely escape  being
killed or maimed in order to prove their fitness as refugees?

Television broadcasts images of our prosperity to far-flung nations. Jumbo  jets
can bring hundreds of their people to our borders in less than a day.  There are
millions of economic migrants, but their hunger for a materially  better life
should not be equated with the genuine desire of refugees to be  free to think
and live.

LOAD-DATE: October 25, 1993

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: COLUMN

                            Times Publishing Company


                              158 of 187 DOCUMENTS

                         St. Petersburg Times (Florida)

                    November 19, 1993, Friday, City Edition

For the love of the Irish

BYLINE: TONY GREEN

SECTION: WEEKEND; GROUP SHOTS; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 392 words



A look at the Tampa Bay area band scene

Brendan Nolan

  Having first played at the Harp & Thistle Pub on St. Petersburg Beach in  1990
as a visitor from Canada, Brendan Nolan has now made the Pinellas beach  his
home.

Originally from Dublin, Nolan's poignant story-telling songs are expressed
through traditional Celtic/Irish folk stylings, but Nolan can be considered a
contemporary artist using old tools. His newest release, Across the Great
Divide, is a conceptual album that views Irish immigration to the United  States
as a mixture of pain and yearnings for the homeland.

"Being an immigrant and away from Ireland for so long, I've found my self
singing a lot more songs on the subject," Nolan confides in his smooth Irish
accent. "There was nothing very uplifting about the immigration experience  for
many people who left Ireland, particularly during the famine years."

Nolan adds that an exodus of Irish immigrants has continued through the  1980s
with the worldwide recession hitting Ireland especially hard.

"As dreams break like shells upon the shore/What are the days spent  waiting for
the sunset/When loneliness is never far away/But to sing across  the miles/To a
stranger's friendly smile/Made it all seem worth it anyway" -  lines from The
Curse of The Immigrant, a song that Nolan says is  autobiographical. Other songs
on Across the Great Divide are Far From Their  Home, No Irish Need Apply and
Flight of the Earls.

Nolan's evocative voice, which trembles with vibrato, is accompanied on  Across
the Great Divide by acoustic guitar and instruments ranging from viola,
mandolin, whistle and an Irish hand-played drum called a bodhran.

Although Nolan shuns the title of Ambassador of Irish Culture, he says,
relenting, "If that's the case, then I'd be comfortable doing it."

AT A GLANCE

Brendan Nolan, singer/songwriter, acoustic guitar/bodhran.

Highlights: recently played live on WMNF-FM 88.5's Monday Morning Live.

Style: acoustic Celtic/Irish folk.

Cassette releases: Across the Great Divide and Tempust Fugitive.

Upcoming gig: Nov. 27 at the Iron Horse, 121 E Tarpon Ave., Tarpon Springs,
937-8167.

Influences: Luke Kelly, Don McLean, Gordon Lightfoot.

Miscellaneous: "You never hear a song on the radio that has a story  anymore."

- TONY GREEN

LOAD-DATE: November 23, 1993

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: BLACK AND WHITE PHOTO; BRENDAN NOLAN

                            Times Publishing Company


                              159 of 187 DOCUMENTS

                         St. Petersburg Times (Florida)

                    November 22, 1993, Monday, City Edition

PTA wants funds for immigrants

SECTION: TAMPA BAY AND STATE; BRIEFLY; Pg. 3B

LENGTH: 207 words

DATELINE: ST. PETERSBURG; TAMPA



The Florida State PTA wants the federal government to provide money for the
education of immigrant and refugee children in public schools. The money would
cover the cost of providing classroom space, special education programs and
social services for those children, according to the resolution adopted late
during the group's 70th annual convention in St. Petersburg. This resolution
will be forwarded to the National PTA for possible inclusion in its  legislative
platform.

Suspect charged

in stabbing death

TAMPA - A 35-year-old man was charged with second-degree murder early Sunday  in
the stabbing death of another man outside a motel on E Hillsborough Avenue,
Tampa police Sgt. David Stead said. Joe Ross, 35, of 4324 E Hillsborough Ave.
is accused of fatally stabbing the man outside the Village Motel at 4100 E
Hillsborough Ave. at 4:30 a.m., Stead said. The man's identity was not known
late Sunday.

Police find body

in St. Petersburg

ST. PETERSBURG - Police found the body of Josey Brinson, 27, in a car late
Saturday. He had been shot to death. The car was parked at 34th Street and  18th
Avenue S, police said. Police had no other information Sunday.

LOAD-DATE: November 25, 1993

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DISTRIBUTION: TAMPA BAY AND STATE

TYPE: DIGEST

                            Times Publishing Company


                              160 of 187 DOCUMENTS

                         St. Petersburg Times (Florida)

                    November 30, 1993, Tuesday, City Edition

Defection total reaches 39

SOURCE: Compiled from Staff and Wire Reports

SECTION: SPORTS; SPORTS DIGEST; FANFARE; Pg. 2C

LENGTH: 495 words



In pairs, Cuban athletes evaded their security guards and informers to defect
during regional championships in San Juan, Puerto Rico. They sneaked out from
the pool, from the playing field or from their beds.

Waiting outside INS offices to make their formal appeals for political  asylum,
eight athletes said Monday they each plotted with a best friend,  sometimes
months in advance, to escape return to their communist homeland.

They didn't tell their families. One championship weightlifter, 23-year-old
Emilio Lara, said he didn't even tip off big brother Pablo Lara, a world
record-holding weightlifter, who also was among the 900-some Cubans competing.

"You can't trust anybody," Emilio Lara said. "We took the chance at  night, and
left."

The Cubans have been melting away from the Central American and Caribbean  Games
in record numbers. Thirty-nine Cuban athletes and officials had departed  as of
midday Monday, including top basketball player Andres Gibert; 27 had  formally
applied for political asylum by the end of the day, the Immigration  and
Naturalization Service reported.

Exiles and INS officials expect the total to climb before the competition  ends
late today.

   TENNIS: When the U.S. Davis Cup squad travels to India for next year's
first-round tie, the home team will be without its No. 1 player, Ramesh
Krishnan. Krishnan said he will boycott the matches with the United States in
March to protest remarks made by team officials in a dispute over money,  Indian
news agencies reported.

COLLEGES: The Colorado State women's softball team won a decision in the
Supreme Court when the nine justices refused to vacate a court order that
forces the school to field a team. Colorado State, citing budgetary problems,
dropped the women's softball and men's baseball teams in June 1992.

  BOXING: Evander Holyfield's next fight could be a unification bout against
WBC champion Lennox Lewis. Frank Maloney, Lewis' manager, said the possible
matchup is contingent on whether Holyfield decides to fight again. After
beating Riddick Bowe for the WBA and IBF titles this month at Las Vegas,
Holyfield said he might retire.

BASEBALL: The Cleveland Indians released right-handed pitcher Mike  Christopher
and said left-hander Jeff Mutis was claimed on waivers by the  Florida Marlins.
College Sports Magazine picked Florida State No. 2 in its  preseason Division I
baseball poll. Atlantic Coast Conference rival Georgia  Tech is the preseason
No. 1. Cal-State Fullerton, defending national champion  LSU and Wichita State
fill out the Top 5. Former major-leaguer Mike Ramsey was  named manager of the
St. Petersburg Cardinals. Jim Nettles was named manager  of the Dunedin Blue
Jays.

- Compiled from staff, wire reports

BOXING AIR: Michael Jordan oversees production of his Wheaties commemorative
silver box earlier this month. The package went on sale Monday.

LOAD-DATE: December 2, 1993

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: BLACK AND WHITE PHOTO, Associated Press; Michael Jordan oversees
production of his Wheaties commemorative silver box earlier this month.

TYPE: DIGEST

                            Times Publishing Company


                              161 of 187 DOCUMENTS

                         St. Petersburg Times (Florida)

                   January 19, 1994, Wednesday, City Edition

Cruise ship picks up a boatload of refugees

BYLINE: JANET SHELTON ROGERS

SECTION: TAMPA BAY AND STATE; Pg. 3B

LENGTH: 331 words

DATELINE: TAMPA



Six refugees who began their escape from Cuba in a 15-foot boat finished the
trip in style after they were rescued by a Tampa-based cruise ship.

The crew of the Regent Rainbow pulled the men from the water after they  were
found floating near Grand Cayman Island last week. Ship workers quickly  moved
the men from their small boat, which had a blanket for a sail, onto the  luxury
cruise ship, where they were given cabins, food and medical care.

The ship then continued its cruise to the Cayman Islands and Jamaica,  where, in
accord with international law, the ship's captain asked the  governments of both
nations to take responsibility for the refugees. Both  refused.

The ship returned to Tampa on Sunday with the refugees still aboard. Ann
Burguieres, spokeswoman for Regency Cruises, said the company put the men into
a motel Sunday and Monday. The six were taken to Miami on Tuesday, she said,
where the U.S. Immigration and Naturalization Service will determine their
fate.

George Waldroup, spokesman for the INS, said the men are considered illegal
aliens. But it is unlikely they will be deported.

The 1966 Cuban Adjustment Act gives permanent residency to Cuban refugees  who
reach the United States and live here for one year. Even if a request to  stay
in the United States is initially denied, the appeals process normally  takes
more than a year. At that point, the Cuban Adjustment Act would take  effect,
officials said.

Although it played the good guy, Regency Cruises could be fined for  bringing
the men to Tampa. Ship officials must prove they asked the other  governments to
take the aliens or face $ 3,000 in fines for breaking  immigration laws.

Waldroup said that, too, is unlikely, if the company can prove it tried.

The fear of fines will not change policy at the cruise ship line,  Burguieres
said.

"It's the law of the sea. If you see someone you try to rescue them," she  said.
"It was really a good deed."

LOAD-DATE: January 22, 1994

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DISTRIBUTION: TAMPA BAY AND STATE

                            Times Publishing Company


                              162 of 187 DOCUMENTS

                         St. Petersburg Times (Florida)

                     January 24, 1994, Monday, City Edition

Millionaire immigrants program a bust in U.S.

BYLINE: REENA SHAH STAMETS

SECTION: NATIONAL; Pg. 1A

LENGTH: 1365 words



Three years ago, Uncle Sam had an idea that was vintage free market, though a
bit peculiar: Sell U.S. citizenships for $ 1-million a pop.

Hence, by order of Congress, some cash-laden foreigners could jump to the  head
of the immigration line, in front of the tired and poor, if they could  invest $
1-million and create at least 10 jobs in the United States.

But many of the millionaires America had its eyes on - they were dubbed  "yacht
people" as a counterpoint to "boat people" - have surveyed the  marketplace and
decided to take their business elsewhere. They have found that  countries such
as Canada offer a better deal.

When the millionaires program began in 1991, Congress and immigration  experts,
fearing an international stampede, set a cap of 10,000 visas per  year. As of
today, not even a thousand millionaires have been lured by the  prospect of
American citizenship, let alone the 20,000 applications and  $ 20-billion in
investments Congress had expected by now.

"They were smoking something when they wrote it," said Harold Ezell, a  former
regional immigration commissioner whose law practice in Newport Beach,  Calif.,
has shepherded a few of the millionaire immigrants through the  program's
bureaucratic maze.

But many immigrants who had been enterprising enough to make a million  dollars
did some simple comparison shopping and concluded that Canada was a  much better
buy.

In Canada, the asking price for citizenship has been $ 200,000, the tax  burden
lower and there are no strict requirements about the kinds of  businesses or
jobs created. What's more, as Canadians, the immigrant  millionaires can
ultimately get visas to live and work in the United States if  they still wish
to. "We've shot ourselves in the foot," Ezell said.

According to the Immigration and Naturalization Service, 881 millionaires  have
applied since 1991, and less than half have been approved.

Meanwhile, Canada has received more than 10,000 investors who have injected  $
2-billion into its economy and created 11,000 jobs. The program has been so
successful that the government recently upped the asking price to $ 270,000,
said Guy Pilote, a Canadian official.

The U.S. program offered immigrant millionaires conditional residency for a
two-year trial period. If the businesses they created - and the jobs - still
existed after that, the investors would get permanent residency eventually
leading to citizenship. If the investor settled in a rural area, the program
required only a $ 500,000 investment.

U.S. immigration has traditionally been geared toward allowing in refugees  and
relatives of U.S. residents and in offering residency to skilled people  who
find jobs as nurses, university professors or scientists. Although foreign
businessmen can get visas to live and work in the United States, these permits
are temporary. The investor program offered citizenship, not just temporary
residence, to entrepreneurs.

"I would compare this to a situation where if there were two siblings, one  who
went into business and the other got a Ph.D, we could under our laws  invite the
Ph.D, but there was no way to invite the entrepreneur even if he  could make a
bigger economic contribution," said Warren Leiden, executive  director of the
American Immigration Lawyers' Association in Washington.

But the investor program failed because it was a belated and botched  effort to
imitate Canada's success and was vastly overpriced, U.S. immigration  attorneys
say. Canada and Australia both instituted their investor programs in  the 1980s,
when uncertainty about Hong Kong's future was high and Asian  economic tigers
like Taiwan and South Korea generated hundreds of wealthy  businessmen seeking
greener pastures.

By the time the United States came up with its program and Congress  finished
debating it in 1990, times had changed. The United States was  drifting into
recession, Asian stock markets were booming and not many  investors willing to
throw a million dollars into an uncertain U.S. economy  could be found.

"This could have been a marvelous way to attract good people and resolve  our
balance of payments problem and unemployment," said Bill Flynn, a Tampa
attorney. Instead, the program was so bureaucratic and "user-unfriendly"  that
many businessmen sensibly stayed away from it, he said. If a business did  not
do well enough in its first two years, the investor could be denied  residency
and deported. "Businesses do well or badly in good times and bad,"  Flynn said.
"There's no effort here to help people if they take a good-faith  risk that for
some reason fails."

"It's sort of naive to think that U.S. permanent residence (leading to
citizenship) is something people would blindly seek," said Charles Miller, an
attorney in Los Angeles. Many millionaires are discouraged by U.S. tax laws,
which would tax a citizen's worldwide income, not just money earned in the
United States.

And while the program seems designed for the super-wealthy jet-setter with
extra money to purchase American citizenship, Miller says, it makes no effort
to attract energetic Asian entrepreneurs who may have just a few hundred
thousand dollars but might galvanize the U.S. economy as they have their own.

Many of the millionaires who have been approved have sunk their investments  in
hotels and real estate, creating low-paying jobs and anchoring the bulk of
their money safely in property.

"Dollars don't build a country," Miller said. "You want the  entrepreneurial
spirit that you see in Asia. It's not a few wealthy people who  built Hong Kong.
It's the middle class. If we allowed some of these people who  have a nice nest
egg and can bring some of their energy to set up businesses  like gas stations
and restaurants, you'd get immigrants like this country got  a hundred years ago
from Europe who built the economy of this country."

Although the U.S. program has, by all accounts, been a flop, one former
congressman who helped write the law says he would rather see the program die
than soften its requirements to attract more wallets.

"The money was a part of it, but there's a lot of money in the world,"  said
Bruce Morrison, a former Democratic House member from Connecticut who now
practices immigration law. "The principal idea was to attract people who
directly create jobs."

Who are the people who have so far shown a desire to buy their way into the
United States? The Immigration and Naturalization Service won't say, but its
statistics show that the most applications have come from entrepreneurs in
Taiwan, China, Hong Kong, South Korea, Britain, Canada and India. There have
also been applications from Burma, Bangladesh, Ethiopia and Croatia. They
propose investing in real estate, hotels, sports goods stores, child-care
centers and garment factories.

Neither INS officials nor immigrations lawyers would disclose the names of  any
of those who have participated in the program.

Morrison opposes reducing the million-dollar threshold or easing the
responsibility of creating 10 jobs. "The question is, to what extent do you
sell admission to the United States? The idea that all you have to do is
deposit a million dollars would seem to be crossing the line."

A relatively spacious country like Canada, with 27-million people living in  an
area larger than the United States, can afford to welcome entrepreneurs  with
few strings attached, Morrison said. But he said the United States, with
already 250-million people and growing by 1-million immigrants a year, should
be more choosy.

Another immigration attorney said that since the program blatantly solicits  the
wealthy, it might as well demand $ 2-million.

"Basically, what people are doing is buying passports," said Edward  Gallagher,
a Washington attorney who steers his foreign clients toward other  less
ambitious investor visa programs. Considering that an immigrant's  parents,
children and eventually brothers and sisters can also migrate, the  United
States might as well keep a higher sticker price, Gallagher said.

LOAD-DATE: January 27, 1994

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                            Times Publishing Company


                              163 of 187 DOCUMENTS

                         St. Petersburg Times (Florida)

                    February 1, 1994, Tuesday, City Edition

States want U.S. to pay for aliens

BYLINE: ELLEN DEBENPORT

SECTION: TAMPA BAY AND STATE; Pg. 1B

LENGTH: 682 words

DATELINE: WASHINGTON



Florida taxpayers are spending $ 1-billion a year to cope with a flood of
foreign immigrants, but the Clinton administration offered only sympathy to
Gov. Lawton Chiles on Monday.

Chiles and the governors of Texas, California, Arizona, New Jersey, New  York
and Illinois banded together in Washington to demand help. American  borders are
a sieve because the federal government doesn't enforce the law,  they said, and
the federal government should pay.

  As it stands, the states are paying for immigrants - legal and illegal -  who
show up needing health care, education, welfare and sometimes jail.

  Chiles said in December that he is going to sue the federal government,  and
he said Monday that he expects the other states to join him. The governors  also
agreed to hammer their congressional delegations for help.

  "Virtually, we're looking at a majority of the members of the House of
Representatives" if the big states stick together, Chiles said. Congress
ultimately would have to provide the money for the states.

Florida still is trying to figure out just how many immigrants,  overwhelmingly
Caribbean and Latin American, are living in the state and how  much they cost,
but some information is known.

   It costs $ 421-million a year to teach English to immigrant children,  not
counting other school costs. States are required to educate children even  if
they are in the country illegally.

   It cost $ 9.6-million for the state's share of Medicaid to provide  health
care to refugees from 1989 to 1992, but Medicaid doesn't pay when  illegal
immigrants show up at charity hospitals such as Tampa General or  Jackson
Memorial in Miami. Taxpayers do.

   It costs $ 58.6-million a year to lock up 3,433 so-called criminal  aliens
who have been sentenced to state prison.

  The meeting Monday was closed to the press, but afterward, Chiles and  Texas
Gov. Ann Richards stepped into the chilly twilight outside the Old  Executive
Office Building to answer questions. They said administration  officials had
been very understanding.

  Attorney General Janet Reno talked about new efforts at border patrol.  Health
and Human Services Secretary Donna Shalala said Clinton's health-care  bill
would include some money for immigrants. Budget chief Leon Panetta said  federal
money is tight, but he wouldn't blame the states for filing a lawsuit.

  "It was really a very good exchange," Richards said. "I told them  that a
number of us were considering a lawsuit, that I didn't know how  successful we
would be, but we want to heighten the profile of the issue."

  Making the feds pay for immigration is not a new issue for Chiles. When  he
was in the U.S. Senate, he tried to sue the federal government on similar
grounds. The courts ruled that a senator did not have legal standing to sue.

  Because Chiles, a former chairman of the Senate Budget Committee, knows
Congress so well, he said he is not optimistic that immigration will become a
hot topic, especially in this year of crime, health care and welfare reform.

  "I know that this would not be a lot of people's priorities,," he  said.

  His approach is milder than that of California Gov. Pete Wilson. Wilson,  who
sent a representative to the meeting, wants to change the U.S.  Constitution so
that babies born to illegal immigrants in this country will  not become U.S.
citizens automatically.

  He wants to deny public education to the children of illegal immigrants  and
turn them away from hospital emergency rooms.

  Richards said the states would be helped tremendously if existing  immigration
laws were enforced. But stopping immigrants at some desert border  - even
building a big fence between the United States and Mexico - wouldn't  help
Florida.

  "We still have too many people who get off the plane with a tourist  visa and
they disappear until they go to Jackson (Memorial) or show up with  their kids
in school," Chiles said.

- Times researcher Beverly Bell contributed to this story.

LOAD-DATE: February 4, 1994

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DISTRIBUTION: TAMPA BAY AND STATE; TAMPA TODAY

                            Times Publishing Company


                              164 of 187 DOCUMENTS

                         St. Petersburg Times (Florida)

                     January 26, 1992, Sunday, City Edition
                              Correction Appended

Dance revives Ybor City's immigrant culture

BYLINE: Adeline Garcia

SECTION: BRANDON TIMES; GUEST COLUMN; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 384 words



At the turn of the century, the greatest thing Tampa had going for it was the
cigar industry. At one time, Tampa was considered the  cigar capital of the
world.

    Along with the cigar industry came a large influx of immigrants from Spain,
Italy and Cuba. These people brought with them their customs, traditions and a
culture that has remained for 100 years.  The immigrants settled all over Tampa,
but the center of their activities and culture was Ybor City. The cigar workers
were dedicated to the industry that had given them an opportunity to better
their lives in the new world.

    They worked hard; they played hard. Entertainment became important to them.
They organized clubs where they met for activities such as cards, dances and
theater performances. Some of these buildings still function as social clubs.

     The immigrants brought the songs and dances of their native villages.
Dances such as la jota came from the province of Galicia in the north of Spain
and the flamenco, universally known, was popular then as it is now. La
tarantella came from Italy. From Cuba we have the typical guajiro dances that
represented the country people.

    Today, audiences can relive Ybor City's past in music and dance through the
Ballet Folklorico of Ybor. This ballet company was organized in 1989 as a
non-profit organization whose objective is to preserve and promote a culture
that is particular to Tampa.

    The dancers are all professionals. In the last year new dances from Central
and South America have been added, since many other countries from our own Latin
hemisphere are part of the evolving Latin culture.

    The first performance of the Ballet Folklorico of Ybor in 1992 will be
tonight at the Tampa Theater at the Franklin Street Mall. This will be an
entertaining experience that will take its audience to Spain, Italy, Cuba,
Mexico and other Latin American countries and provide an opportunity to learn
something about our Latin heritage that is so important to our community.
 Adeline Garcia directs publicity for the Ballet Folklorico of Ybor.
 Anyone interested in submitting a guest column for Tampa and Brandon Times
should contact Sally Hicks at Barnett Plaza, Suite 1140, 101 E Kennedy Blvd.,
Tampa 33602.

LOAD-DATE: November 4, 1992

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DISTRIBUTION: BRANDON TIMES; TAMPA

CORRECTION-DATE: January 28, 1992

CORRECTION:
The first performance of the Ballet Folklorico of Ybor in 1992 will be 3 p.m.
Sunday. A column in Sunday's St. Petersburg Times gave an incorrect date.

                            Times Publishing Company


                              165 of 187 DOCUMENTS

                         St. Petersburg Times (Florida)

                    February 10, 1992, Monday, City Edition

Help for the Haitians and Florida

SECTION: EDITORIAL; EDITORIALS; Pg. 10A

LENGTH: 417 words



Congress may finally be moving to block the forced repatriation of Haitian
refugees. A new bill approved last week by the House Judiciary Subcommittee on
International Law, Immigration and Refugees would halt the action for six
months, and would also set aside 2,000 places for Haitians under annual
immigration quotas for refugees. A separate Senate proposal would halt
repatriation for two weeks.

       This significant if belated signal provides an opening for Florida to
press the issue of refugee relocation support. Among the 813 Floridians polled
in December for the Miami Herald and a South Florida television station, 57
percent said Haitian refugees should be allowed to stay in the United States
until perilous conditions in Haiti abate. Black, white or Hispanic, Republican
or Democrat, Floridians aren't ready to turn the hemisphere's most desperate
people away.

       Miami Mayor Xavier Suarez, who fled Cuba as a child, may have put it best
in an interview with the New York Times: "In my case, how could I not be in
their favor if I was accepted here 31 years ago and the whole world extended a
hand to me and my family? I think the old distinction between political and
economic refugees just doesn't wash anymore. The Haitians come here with a lot
of good strong societal values and just want an opportunity. We should give it
to them."



      Suarez, like most politicians, is ready to say it with bumper stickers.
The one he has been giving away says, "Interdict Drugs, Not Haitians."

       Empathy is a critical element, but housing and jobs can't be fashioned
from goodwill alone. Florida is still paying for the 125,000 who left Cuba
during the Mariel boatlift in 1980, and for a more recent wave of some 100,000
Nicaraguan refugees. In these cases, the federal government reaped political
credit and left state and local officials holding a combined total of more than
$ 100-million in relocation bills.

       Gov. Chiles and the Florida legislative delegation should redouble their
efforts to wrest $ 35-million from the federal Immigration Emergency Fund, and
to obtain guarantees that Washington won't shirk financial responsibility for
the Haitians. A large majority of the refugees who set sail for Florida would
like to live and work here. When the White House, the Supreme Court and Congress
tire of playing God with the Haitians' fate, federal officials should enable
Florida to do the right thing.


LOAD-DATE: November 4, 1992

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: EDITORIAL

                            Times Publishing Company


                              166 of 187 DOCUMENTS

                         St. Petersburg Times (Florida)

                   February 15, 1992, Saturday, City Edition

Rethinking immigration

SECTION: EDITORIAL; EDITORIALS; Pg. 20A

LENGTH: 374 words



While other employers are agonizing over layoffs, the Immigration and
Naturalization Services (INS) is planning to increase its work force by almost
1,200. The agency will need at least that many additions to make the 1-million
arrests expected this year, and to dig out from under the overflow of residency
applications and pleas for asylum.

    Far from reassuring, the announcement triggers alarms. Just as more prison
beds won't heal a society made desperate by crime, more bureaucracy and
enforcement at INS won't halt the flow of refugees and immigrants desperate to
get in.

    The ongoing struggle over the fate of some 10,000 Haitian refugees
highlights the confused state of U.S. immigration policy. Then there are the
Mexicans, a prime focus of INS attention. American companies are eager to build
factories on their soil, where they will be paid a fraction of the wages
commanded by U.S. workers. Not surprisingly, large numbers of them would rather
work here.

    Guidelines that seem clear on paper dissolve into vagaries under real world
conditions: Who should be allowed to stay, and why?  What divides economic from
political refugees? Who should determine when repatriation is tantamount to a
death sentence, and by what criteria?

    People so routinely risk their lives to reach America that those who are
U.S. citizens by birthright barely notice. When they do, the trials of
immigrants reinforce an inherited belief that no price is too high for the
privilege of living and working here. For Americans, immigration has always been
a risky business, driven by hunger, fear of persecution and, almost always,
economic limits at home.  Those who came as slaves prevailed against the most
cruel hardships of all, not just in passage but for generations thereafter.

    The America that once courted immigrant labor is now overwhelmed by
recession, high unemployment, inadequate housing and a shortage of basic
services. Meanwhile, immigrants are drawn here for the same old reasons war,
famine, the dream of a better life. It might seem easier, at least for now, to
simply hire more guards and bureaucrats to keep them away. That isn't what
America is about though. Or is it?

LOAD-DATE: November 4, 1992

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: EDITORIAL

                            Times Publishing Company


                              167 of 187 DOCUMENTS

                         St. Petersburg Times (Florida)

                   February 15, 1992, Saturday, City Edition

Immigrants learn English, gain hope

BYLINE: REENA SHAH

SECTION: NATIONAL; CHANGING AMERICA; Pg. 1A

LENGTH: 2367 words



Two hundred and nineteen years after the Boston Tea Party, a group of Cambodian
immigrants in a makeshift classroom are trying to comprehend why those
disgruntled Bostonians dressed as Indians and hurled crates of tea into the
harbor.

    Like humble converts mastering the rituals of a new religion, the immigrants
are earnest but confused. As part of their English class, they are learning
strange words and phrases as they study their new ancestors, these Boston
patriots.

    But more than that, each of them is slowly transforming into another person
who talks and thinks differently. An American.

    At this English class, held during the immigrants' lunch break at a St.
Petersburg seafood factory, the dozen students learn how to survive in a new
land and slough off old identities and loyalties.

    They represent a tiny fraction of fledgling Americans. Every year, 1-million
immigrants and refugees (and about another million illegal immigrants) come to
America. About 1-million are enrolled in English classes nationally. In Florida,
destination of the third-largest number of immigrants after California and
Texas, 113,000 immigrants are taking English courses.

    Although the Boston Tea Party seems a remote subject, the students respond
when the class begins to cover issues like fairness in government and rebellion
against tyranny.

    When their teacher, Wendell Gingrich, asks why the angry Bostonians
revolted, Phekhong Chang has an answer in recently acquired staccato English.
"They want the tax not high," she says.  "If the tax high, they can't have tea.
They can't pay money to buy tea."

    Gingrich talks to them about taxation without representation. No one in the
class can pronounce the phrase, but minutes after he has explained its meaning
in simple English, the class is abuzz  denouncing its unfairness.
    "In Cambodia we pay tax but never vote to King Sihanouk," Bui Chang Luk says
indignantly. "King get his father's job. No election."

    Gingrich smiles proudly. It will be a long time before his students become
fluent in English, and possibly they will never lose their Khmer accents. But
thanks to the grammar school-level history and civics texts he has been using,
they already identify with what being an American means.

    "They have seen and experienced in their countries the kinds of things like
fighting for liberty that we here read only in textbooks," Gingrich says. "I try
to show them what America is about. They have more of an understanding of what
America is than many people who have lived here all their lives."

    In their way, the class of Cambodians unconsciously gives their teacher a
lesson in classically American values like self-betterment through hard work. It
is their lunch break at the General Mills Restaurants Inc.'s seafood factory at
Bayboro, where they sort and process shrimp for local restaurants. But instead
of taking time off for a meal, they troop into a room in a nearby building
carrying folders, a lingering smell of fish and an eagerness to become another
person. There, they take free English lessons from Gingrich, a retired principal
who works part time for the adult education department.

    Their classroom, crowded with a few tables and chairs and a tiny blackboard
in a corner, looks less inspiring than the colorful classrooms their children
study in, and the classes run less than an hour a day. But they are happy. The
cell-like classroom is their escape into the larger world of opportunity
outside, where better jobs, larger paychecks and mortgage payments await them.
 Fitting in


   The class doesn't just learn new words like "revolt," "wet paint" and "thaw
tanks." For the students, learning English is a way of grasping new ideas and
familiarizing themselves with the ways and values of their new homeland. It is a
way of fitting in.

    And in some ways, English 101 is a way of discovering a new self, even
regaining adulthood. Many immigrants feel demoted to the status of their own
children when they come to America. Within months, though, young children become
fluent in their new language while their parents continue to struggle against
feelings of ineptness and dependence.

    Mrs. Bui Chang Luk wants to learn English so she can communicate better with
her two sons, who speak English nearly all the time, including to answer her
when she talks to them in Khmer.  She came to America 10 years ago as a refugee
and, like the rest of her family, is a U.S. citizen. But it isn't enough that
she can now read billboards and food labels. Her children, products of American
schools, have outstripped her. It embarrasses her that even her 5-year-old
speaks English more ably than she.

    Once, her 15-year-old son became angry when she tried to tell him something,
and what he said upset her deeply. "He say, "This is United States. You want
speak to me, you speak in English.' '

    Like Mrs. Luk, many other immigrants tend to live in ethnic enclaves and
work jobs where speaking skills are so marginal that they hardly get to learn
English, much less practice it. Luis Aguas was a seaman in Colombia; he works as
an attendant in a St.  Petersburg nursing home. His wife, Maria Quintero, works
as a hotel maid. Teresa Shaub, from Poland, cleaned the rooms of a motel she and
her husband own on St. Petersburg Beach. All say they immigrated to join
relatives and to seek a better life for their children. For them, English
classes are a doorway to a wide world of opportunity.

    But other immigrants decided to learn only after they realized they had no
choice. Janina Bawoski of Largo was a grocery store manager in Poland before she
came to America seven years ago. She has a job sewing mattresses, which does not
require her to speak much. For years, she lived in isolation with her
12-year-old daughter, Kinga, and close friends as her only connections to the
world outside. But she had to come out of her shell five months ago when she
decided to take a civics test to become eligible for U.S.  citizenship.

    "I need stay for this country," she explained. "I like this country.  People
no understand me, so I must learn English." She spent three months reading and
memorizing the fifth-grade level civics books immigrants are expected to know.
And she answered all questions at the oral test, except one. Asked to name the
two U.S. senators from Florida, she could only think of Connie Mack and forgot
Bob Graham. To her relief, she still passed the test.

    Now, Ms. Bawoski takes night language lessons, made available free to all
immigrants. Although immigrants have been coming to America for centuries, free
lessons on a national scale have been offered only since 1964, when the federal
government pledged to give states money to help people overcome language
handicaps.
 Generations @

   A century ago, the emphasis was on Americanizing immigrants as quickly as
possible. They received civics and American history lessons in factories and
ethnic enclaves, but English was something to be picked up on one's own, said
Ray Mohl, a history professor at Florida Atlantic University in Boca Raton who
specializes in immigration.

    "It's a myth that everyone just assimilated," Mohl said. Some groups, like
the Germans, lived in enclaves and had their own German-language schools,
rousing protests similar to those seen now among people who oppose Spanish
instruction in schools. But German-Americans disbanded their schools when World
War I broke out and it wasn't expedient to stand out as different.

    "Ultimately they all assimilate," Mohl said of immigrants. "It takes two to
three generations for the process to work."

    Although English lessons would have been desirable in the past, they have
become essential now, said Joyce Watson-Nutta, an administrator of the English
language program for Pinellas County.

    "Jobs then didn't require people to go beyond a basic reading level," she
said. "Now, you don't have those kinds of factories.  People have to know how to
answer the telephone, talk to customers, use a cash register. It's essential if
they want to get a job." The students she sees at adult education centers mostly
have day jobs but still show up for three or more hours of language classes in
the evenings. Bus services are sparse at night, and students often bike or get
friends to drop them off at school. When it rains heavily, attendance falls.
 Highly motivated


   Florida spends $ 150-million a year providing adult education, and 113,000
immigrants mostly in Dade County take advantage of it. The 1986 amnesty that
legalized millions of illegal aliens led to a 50 percent surge in enrollment
because immigrants who want to become citizens are required to have an
elementary school knowledge of English.

    "If these individuals cannot find a place in society where they can provide
for themselves, it may cost us more money in public assistance, health,
corrections," said Jim Dodd, a program specialist at Florida's Education
Department in Tallahassee. "They're already literate. We get them over a feeling
of being dependent, and they are so highly motivated I think it works very
well." Classes are made available in local schools, and sometimes during breaks
or after work in factories if employers are agreeable.

    The immigrants' eagerness to succeed and become accepted in American society
defines the language classes. "Sometimes, it's group therapy as much as it's an
English class," says Paige Oliver, who teaches a night class at Dixie Hollins
Evening Adult Center.  Students talk about job rejections, parenting, and the
frustration of not being understood by others. And they applaud those who make a
down payment on a home or a car, or get U.S. citizenship all notches of success.


    "My daughter she talk on phone for one hour," says Luis Aguas of his
13-year-old. "I don't understand. In America children talk, talk, talk on
telephone. When I tell her, she say, "Da-ad ' '

    "But you know," he confesses with secret pride. "She speak very good
English. She correct me all the time."
 Learning to dial 911


   Ms. Oliver focuses on teaching English through survival skills: how to fill
out a job application, what to say when you call an employer about job openings,
how to make an appointment with a dentist.

    One night, for three straight hours, she schooled each of her students on
what to do in an emergency. "They said they would call 911. But they didn't know
what to say after that," she said. So the students learned to say "Are you
okay?" to an imaginary victim, and also to tell an operator, "I am at 66th
Street and Ulmerton."

    For other students, learning English was not so much a way of finding their
way around as it was finding themselves.

    Mei Chen came to America with her family 12 years ago from Taiwan. She spent
the last 10 years rearing her children in New York City and never had much
opportunity to learn English herself.  The children came first, and she pushed
all three of them; all earned scholarships and eventually, doctorates.

    "It was not easy," she said recalling the despair of her teen-aged children,
who spoke no English when they came. "I remember my second daughter. She cry
because she cannot understand teacher in school. That day, I go to bookstore, I
buy dictionary." Her children stayed up long hours and memorized the dictionary.


    When Mrs. Chen and her husband moved to St. Petersburg, she decided it was
her turn to learn. "So I can understand Americans, and Americans can understand
me," she explains. Mrs. Chen kept a dictionary in her purse and learned to read
a new alphabet from left to right instead of top to bottom. She is embarrassed
that at 54, she is far older than other students at the Tomlinson Adult Learning
Center, but she boasts her linguistic achievements: Now she can read Time
magazine, and she has seen Gone with the Wind twice.  "Second time, I understand
it more."
 A teacher who is learning


   Teresa Shaub, a former teacher in Poland, came to St. Petersburg Beach in
1979, where she and her husband bought a motel. She began taking classes a year
ago and puts in eight hours of study every day. "I want to become a complete
person," she says. "How can I live in America and not know English? I want to
understand everything. Not just "this is door,' "this is floor.' ' Recently, she
read Mutiny on the Bounty and Huckleberry Finn "in the original" she boasts. And
there is another notch that tells her she now has the skills of a native. "Now I
can understand everything in The Golden Girls "

    Mrs. Shaub hopes to go to college and get an English degree. But as she
nudges closer to her American dream, she feels betrayed that her oldest daughter
is becoming American in another unexpected way. The 18-year-old didn't want to
go to college. She wanted to earn money, so she left working at their motel.
"Hard work. You break your nails," Mrs. Shaub explains. Her daughter waits
tables at a restaurant.

     The other immigrants, too, hope to get on. Mrs. Bui already leads her group
at the assembly line in the seafood factory. Luis Aguas wants to be able to take
courses to become an electrician or mechanic. Maria Quintero wants to become a
beautician.

    Their tongues may feel tied, but the new Americans all dream.  Janina
Bawoski dreams of being able to speak fluently one day with a vast circle of
friends, but for now she doesn't even feel sure enough to participate in PTA
meetings. She would like to be able to help her daughter Kinga with her
homework, but is relieved her report card tells her she doesn't need to. For
Mrs. Bawoski, success has meant small pay raises and a move to a more spacious
apartment, but she is happy Kinga will become more than the mattress-maker and
store manager her mother was. "She could be doctor, lawyer, anything," she beams
proudly. "You can become anything in America."

LOAD-DATE: November 4, 1992

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: COLOR PHOTO, Maurice Rivenbark; BLACK AND WHITE PHOTO, Maurice
Rivenbark, (2); Wendell Gingrich teaches the significance of the Boston Tea
Party to students at General Mills Restaurants; Paige Oliver drills her night
class on how to request emergency services after dialing 911 on the telephone;
Bui Chang Luk

                            Times Publishing Company


                              168 of 187 DOCUMENTS

                         St. Petersburg Times (Florida)

                    February 25, 1992, Tuesday, City Edition

Should U.S. shut out immigrants?

BYLINE: REENA SHAH

SECTION: NATIONAL; CAMPAIGN ISSUES: IMMIGRATION; DECISION 92; Pg. 1A

LENGTH: 1886 words



Third in a series
    For centuries, America has opened its doors for the world's tired and poor
to seek opportunity for themselves and build this nation.

    Now some Americans say their country has become tired and poor from taking
in too many immigrants and illegal aliens. It's time to raise the drawbridge,
they insist.

    But a landmark law passed in 1990 will make it possible for about 15-million
people to immigrate by the year 2000, the highest ever.

    Previous highs were in the 1980s, when 10-million people arrived, one-third
through amnesty legalizing undocumented aliens; and in the 1900s, when 9-million
people came here.

    Half of today's immigrants head for California. About 150,000 come to
Florida each year, making it the third-largest recipient of immigrants after
Texas.

    "Our politicians are for letting people in because they're sorry for the
people of Cuba, sorry for the people of China, of Mexico, because their life is
so hard," said Daniel Stein, executive director of the Federation for American
Immigration Reform (FAIR), a Washington group that favors limiting immigration.
"When are they going to take care of the American people?"

    Stein said immigrants compete for scarce jobs or become dependent on
welfare.

    Others favor immigration because it is how America came to be.

    "Everybody is an immigrant or has an ancestor who was an immigrant," said
Michael Fix, an attorney at the Urban Institute, a Washington group that studies
urban affairs. "Immigration is a way that we have been able to attract the best
and the brightest of the world to come and live here."

    Immigrants bring skills that have made America an economic leader, Fix said.
And today's immigrants tend to be more educated than immigrants of a century
ago. They work harder, he said, and some studies show that instead of displacing
other workers, poor immigrants take menial jobs that no one else wants.

    Attacks against immigration aren't surprising because of the recession, he
said, and America has "cyclical bouts of nativism," such as we are experiencing
now.

    The reason for that, he said, is not pleasant: race.

    Before 1965, immigrants largely were white and European. Quotas practically
excluded immigrants from other regions. If more people had come from a country
historically, large numbers could continue coming. So countries like Britain and
Ireland benefited from generous quotas.

    Only 2 percent of immigrants were allowed from the Eastern hemisphere.
Literacy tests, which were not applied to Europeans, screened out Asians.
Non-white immigration was a thin trickle because it had been restricted, and at
times banned.

     For example, thousands of Chinese who came to America to build its
railroads were barred from bringing families or relatives by the Chinese
Exclusion Act of 1882. It wasn't lifted until World War II, when China fought on
America's side. Since very few Chinese had been allowed into the country
previously, the country got a slender quota.

    In 1965, a law opened immigration to all countries and gave priority to
family reunification. That meant recent immigrants could get their families,
parents and siblings to join them.  Non-white immigrants began coming to America
in large numbers and their relatives followed in waves.

    The largest immigrant senders today are Mexico, the Philippines, Vietnam,
the Dominican Republic, Korea, China, India, the former Soviet Union, Jamaica,
Iran and El Salvador.

    Only 15 percent of immigrants now come from Europe. But when all immigrants
who ever came to America are added up, Europe stands out as the largest source:
Two out of three immigrants came from Europe.

    In 1990, Congress raised the number of immigrants allowed each year from
400,000 to 700,000 to speed up the rate at which families can be reunited. The
increase also tripled the number of highly skilled workers such as scientists
who can immigrate.

    And Congress offered 40,000 visas each year, by lottery, to immigrants from
countries that are underrepresented.

    When residencies given to illegal aliens who qualified for amnesty in 1986
are included, the number of immigrants doubles to 1.5-million.

    Those who oppose immigration say America can't cope with such a large
influx. But Fix and others who don't see immigration as a threat say the
increase is small as a percentage of total population.

    America's population increases by 1 percent each year, adding about
2.4-million people, said Carl Haub, a demographer at the Population Reference
Bureau, a non-profit research group in Washington. Immigration accounts for a
quarter to a third of the increase.

    In the early 1900s, nearly half of America's population growth was due to
immigration. Between 1900 and 1910, 10 immigrants were accepted for every 1,000
Americans; now, three immigrants are accepted.

     Although critics point accusatory fingers at immigration for contributing
to America's problems, the real economic burden comes from illegal immigration
and a surge in "boat people" who want to be recognized as refugees, said an
official of the Immigration and Naturalization Service. An estimated 1-million
illegal aliens slip into the United States every year, mostly from Mexico. That
more than doubles the yearly total of people moving into America.

    In 1986, the United States declared an amnesty and legalized 3-million
illegal residents who had lived in this country for several years. Still, there
are another 4-million illegal aliens. They live in the same border states that
the majority of other immigrants choose to live in. California, Texas, Florida,
New York and Illinois are the destinations of 80 percent of immigrants.

    "When you're a country of plenty in a world where the majority of people are
poor, there are going to be millions of people who want to come and live here,"
said Stein of FAIR.

    "We have to take control of our borders. We shouldn't repeat the mistakes of
Europe, or we're going to see a European-type backlash b b against immigrants,"
he said.

    In Europe, increased immigration from eastern Europe and the Third World has
led to a surge in neo-Nazi violence and the popularity of right-wing political
parties who favor curbing immigration.

    Immigration is an emotional issue because it affects everybody in some way
the number of jobs available and the kinds of people living in their
neighborhoods and kids sharing their children's schools. Refugees and illegal
aliens are most likely to go on welfare, at least for a while, and don't have
incomes high enough to pay taxes for services they use, such as schools.

    Legal immigrants must prove before they enter the country that they have a
job or someone to support them. But people who oppose immigration often fail to
distinguish between legal immigrants and refugees and illegal aliens.

    Where do the presidential candidates stand on immigration?  None except Pat
Buchanan who has said he would curb immigration has a stated position. Other
candidates had spokesmen vaguely explain they support immigration as long as it
helps the country.

    In a way, that is a part of the problem, officials of groups that oppose
immigration say. As the majority in the House and the Senate, Democrats have
solidly favored immigration and leniently granted residency to millions of
people who came illegally and decided to stay.

    An Immigration and Naturalization Service official in Miami complains
bitterly: "They are the ones who wrote the law, but when there's a problem, like
the Haitians coming or Cubans coming in boats, not one of these politicians
wants to look bad."

    Congress allows the would-be immigrants to stay on, but it is the states
that have to shoulder the burden of providing services, the official said. Most
congressmen can afford to turn their backs on states, since the bulk of
immigrants are drawn to only five states, including Florida, he said. By law,
children of illegal aliens must be allowed to enroll in public schools, placing
a burden on state and local governments.

    The benefits to America's economy from legal immigrants, such as investments
and scientific inventions, are hard to quantify. But immigration is widely
credited for skimming of the cream of workers in other countries and bringing
them to America.

    Still, the cost of illegal immigration sticks out. Floridians spend about $
20-million a year on rehabilitation, health care, schools and prison facilities
for refugees and illegal aliens. Thousands of Nicaraguans got political asylum
in the 1980s because the United States opposed the communist government in their
country, and many of them live in Miami. In 1988, Dade County public schools
absorbed more than 7,000 Nicaraguan students, many of them illegal aliens.

    California, which receives five times as many immigrants as Florida,
recently indicated that unchecked immigration has strained its resources. Its
Republican governor, Pete Wilson, said immigration had to be curbed to ease the
state's budget problems.  California has begun to cut social services available
to illegal aliens.

    But as long as the United States remains a magnet for the poor, and illegal
immigrants continue to flow in, states like California and Florida can do little
to stop them from moving inside their borders.
 What they say
 Where do the candidates stand on immigration? Some declined to answer because
they haven't formulated a policy.
    President Bush takes credit for the 1990 immigration law, which allows more
scientists and engineers to boost economic competitiveness.

    "I believe that stronger enforcement of existing laws not narrowness of mind
is our best deterrent to immigration abuse."



      Pat Buchanan has said he would attack illegal immigration by building a
"Buchanan fence," a deep trench along the U.S.-Mexico border.

    He has toned down his rhetoric since he was criticized for saying this
during an interview: "I think God made all people good. But if we had to take a
million immigrants in, say, Zulus next year, or Englishmen, and put them up in
Virginia, what group would be easier to assimilate and would cause less problems
for the people of Virginia?"

    He defends the statement, saying some groups assimilate more quickly than
others.



      Former California governor Jerry Brown said that during bad economic
times, it's easy to "look for scapegoats" in immigrants, but they are good for
America's economy.



   Sen. Bob Kerrey, D-Neb., said he would "maintain our historic open-door
policy."

    But he would give a boost to European immigration by "opening up new
opportunities for immigration from countries which have contributed so much to
our past, but which have been shut out almost entirely in recent years."



   Former Massachusetts senator Paul Tsongas says "things are okay as they now
stand" and he "would not change anything."


LOAD-DATE: November 4, 1992

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: COLOR MAP; Map of the world illustrating where various types of
immigrants come from.

TYPE: SERIES

                            Times Publishing Company


                              169 of 187 DOCUMENTS

                         St. Petersburg Times (Florida)

                      March 22, 1992, Sunday, City Edition

Le Pen's "France for the French' message plays well in Marseille

BYLINE: WILBUR G. LANDREY

SECTION: NATIONAL; Pg.  2A

LENGTH: 1545 words

DATELINE: MARSEILLE, France



Maybe half of France's eligible voters are going to the polls today in elections
that threaten a major defeat for President Francois Mitterrand's Socialists and
possibly a major breakthrough for Jean Marie Le Pen's extremist National Front.

    Although the elections are regional and local, the 63-year-old Le Pen has
become the center of national debate in the past two weeks of furious
campaigning for the support of a disenchanted and almost indifferent electorate
helped among other ways by an opponent who made the mistake of calling not only
him but those who vote for him salauds, that is, bastards.

    In France, you are either for or against him. He is striving for his major
breakthrough here along the Mediterranean coast, the second most populous region
in France, where his National Front has scored twice the national average in the
advance opinion polls and aims at becoming the largest party.

    If he comes even close, the beefy Le Pen will have taken a big step away
from a seedy background of barroom brawling and anti-immigrant, anti-Semitic
outbursts that he now either denies or tries to explain away.

    The depressed port of Marseille, with its large immigrant population and an
unemployment rate twice the national average, is made to order for his message
that France is for the French, that unwanted immigrants should be deported and
that only he can save the nation from crime and decadence.

    "For us, this is only one step," he proclaims. "In a year, there will be
legislative elections, in three years, presidential elections, that is, if
Mitterrand serves out his term. . . . Our vocation is to govern."

    A lot will depend on the turnout. Here, as in the United States, the
electorate is disgusted by political scandals and demoralized by unemployment
that is 9.6 percent nationally, two points more for the six departments that
make up this Provence-Alpes-Cote d'Azur (PACA) region, and 18 to 19 percent in
Marseille, a city known not only for its famous fish stew (bouillabaisse) but
for its sometimes shady politics.

    Its 847,000 inhabitants include 100,000 immigrants, mostly from North
Africa.

    A poll at the beginning of the campaign found that nearly half of France's
voters said they wouldn't bother to vote for largely unknown candidates in
elections many didn't understand.

    The lower the turnout, the better for Le Pen because his disciplined
followers, along with the Communists, are the citizens most likely to vote.

    Many who voted Communist to protest the established order now tend to voice
their protest by voting for Le Pen, whose 20-year-old Front is the first,
largest and best-organized extremist party in Europe, or for the Greens, who are
fielding two rival lists of candidates.

    "I don't say Le Pen is a dictator, but he is the seed of dictatorship," is
the opinion of author Edmonde Charles-Roux, the widow of Marseille's longtime
Socialist mayor, Gaston Deferre, who dominated politics here for more than a
generation.

    Whether or not Le Pen is the "fascist" that his opponents call him or the
"patriot" he calls himself, his rallies and oratory raise hairs on the back of
the necks of those who remember the rallies of the early 1930s when Hitler was
coming to power in Germany.

    North African immigrants, his critics say, are the scapegoats for Le Pen
that Jews were for Hitler. But polls also show that one out of every three
Frenchmen agrees with him about immigrants.

    Le Pen wound up his campaign in the PACA region Thursday night in the resort
city of Cannes, a couple hours' drive west along the coast.

    The night before, he had drawn several thousand enthusiastic supporters in
Paris, but in Cannes, Mayor Michel Mouillot refused to rent him anything but a
former movie theater that could hold no T more than 600 people. Wary after
violent clashes with anti-Le Pen demonstrators in Paris, police closed off the
streets for blocks around. Inside police lines were Le Pen's security guards,
wearing tight black caps.

    First came a movie of Le Pen at the center of wild demonstrations, Le Pen
orating, Le Pen shaking hands with world leaders ranging from Ronald Reagan to
the pope. Only Le Pen, intoned the announcer, could save France from its present
decadence, preserving its nationhood from a "Europeanization that would open the
gates to Third World immigration and Japanese and American products."

    Loudspeakers suddenly thundered the stirring chorus of Va, pensiero from
Verdi's opera Nabucco, once the Italian national anthem.

    Possibly unaware that it was supposed to be a chorus of Jews in Babylonian
exile longing for Israel, the crowd stood and began a slow clap for their
leader. The volume rose, and onto the stage he bounded, shaking both fists in
the air to suddenly wild applause.

    Microphone in hand, he strode back and forth for the next hour and 45
minutes (he can easily go on an hour or more longer), his words coming in an
unstoppable torrent, attacking opponents, bemoaning France's loss of Indochina
and Algeria and defending his relations with Saddam Hussein.

    Etymologically, he said, the name of Mouillot, the conservative Gaullist
Cannes mayor who denied him a larger hall, described "a small boy who pees in
his pants."

    "Traitors" were everywhere, he said; it was the 30th anniversary of the
"capitulation" that ended the Algerian war behind the backs of a "victorious
French army" in which he was a Foreign Legion paratroop officer.

    If anyone had supplied Saddam Hussein with the materials to make atomic
bombs, he said, it was the former government of Gaullist leader Jacques Chirac.
The United States, Le Pen said, built up Hussein militarily to help him fight
Iran. Who could deny it?

    Always thinking of the French hostages, Le Pen said, he refused to join the
"hypocritical consensus" that made a demon out of Hussein.

    "It was the National Front that got the French hostages released," without
payment or concessions, he said.

    "I defy anyone to find in my speeches where there is hate or exclusion," he
said, but in France, a "hierarchy of rights" gave social benefits to the French,
not immigrants.

    As for the United States, Le Pen said, it might be "the principal economic
and military power, but its pretense to dictate world policy is laughable,"
given its overwhelming debts.

    On and on until suddenly he shouted "Vive la France Vive le Front National "
and led the rapt audience in singing La Marseillaise, the French national
anthem.

    Le Pen is running for the 123-member regional council, one of 22 being
elected today.

    If his National Front gets the largest number of seats, he will claim the
council presidency now held by Jean Claude Gaudin, 53, the candidate of the
traditional "republican right" whose advantage is a good record and a genuine
Marseille accent.

    In contrast, Le Pen has "parachuted" in from outside. So has the other main
candidate, millionaire businessman Bernard Tapie, who is running for the
Socialists even though he owns the local football team.

    The most likely outcome is that no one will get an absolute majority.
Advance polls gave Gaudin a slight edge with perhaps 40 to 41 seats, several
fewer than last time. Le Pen would get 33 to 35, a big gain from the 25 in 1986.


    Tapie would come third, with 22 to 24, a big loss for the Socialists.  The
two rival Greens parties would win about four each, and the Communists 10 to 13.


    That would leave the presidency to be determined in back-room bargaining
later. Although Gaudin won the regional presidency last time with the National
Front's help, this time, he says, he will refuse any deals either to support Le
Pen or to accept his support for re-election.

    In short, here and throughout France, the system of proportional
representation in the regional council elections is likely to make the councils
ungovernable, deepening the French political crisis. But Le Pen still wins if he
captures more seats while others lose them. And because half the seats in
France's 96 departments are also being chosen at the same time under a totally
different electoral system, many voters are both confused and turned off.

    In the handsome 49-year-old Tapie, a self-made man, Mitterrand's Socialists
had hoped to put forward the one Frenchman here as charismatic as Le Pen. But by
barring Le Pen's meetings, they only won him sympathy. And Tapie never appears
to have recovered from the mistake of branding anyone who votes for Le Pen with
one of the most vulgar French insults.

    In a rousing speech in Aix-en-Province on Wednesday night, Tapie tried to
turn the word in his favor by emotionally recounting his wife's tears and his
own anger on visiting the memorial in Jerusalem for Jewish children killed in
the Holocaust, which Le Pen once described as a mere "detail."

    "Anyone who could call it a detail," Tapie said, "is . . ." He paused, and
his audience completed the sentence in unison . . . "a salaud."

LOAD-DATE: November 4, 1992

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: BLACK AND WHITE PHOTO, Times files; Jean Marie Le Pen

TYPE: COLUMN

                            Times Publishing Company


                              170 of 187 DOCUMENTS

                         St. Petersburg Times (Florida)

                      April 5, 1992, Sunday, City Edition

THE IMMIGRANTSAmerica's lukewarm welcome

BYLINE: Margo Hammond

SECTION: PERSPECTIVE; BOOKS; Pg. 4D

LENGTH: 1033 words



When presidential candidate Pat Buchanan suggested that a group of Englishmen
would be "easier to assimilate" in America than a group of Zulus, he
unfortunately was echoing a longstanding American belief: Not all immigrants are
created equal.

    The stirring poem at the base of the Statue of Liberty doesn't mention
anything about race, color or creed when it welcomes to our shores those
"yearning to be free," but this country over the years always has favored
certain immigrants over others.

    "Send me your tired, your poor . . . as long as they come from northern
Europe, are not too tired or too poor or slightly ill, never stole a loaf of
bread, never joined any questionable organizations, and can document their
activities for the past two years," wrote John F. Kennedy in A Nation of
Immigrants, a book he published in 1958 when he was still a U.S. senator.

    Kennedy's cynical version of Emma Lazarus' poem is quoted in Ellis Cose's A
Nation of Strangers: Prejudice, Politics, and the Populating of America (William
Morrow, $ 25), a book that chronicles the history of America's immigration
policies. It is a chilling tale of ethnic and racial discrimination and
shameless political opportunism. Xenophobia and racism have not been invented by
the likes of Buchanan or even David Duke. Anti-foreign sentiment in America and
the racism that has been its companion can be traced back to our very
beginnings. The first U.S.  naturalization law passed in 1790 reserved
citizenship for those "aliens being free white persons." Even Thomas Jefferson
questioned the wisdom of promoting immigration, arguing the merits of a
homogeneous society, says Cose, who is editor of editorials for the New York
Daily News.

    The names of the groups have changed, but the characterization of newly
arriving immigrants as lazy and corrupt has remained frighteningly constant.
"Catholics, Jews, Hindus, and Bolsheviks have, at one time or another all been
classified as grave threats to everything America represents, as have Irish,
Italians, Germans, Romanians, Chinese, and countless others," Cose says.

    In the mid-19th century with anti-Catholic hysteria running high, it was the
Irish Catholic who had difficulty assimilating. The Irish, along with other
groups not "easily assimilated," routinely were blamed for bringing crime to an
otherwise pristine America. "Had we no Irish or Germans or Italians in this
country, the duties of a police officer would be a sinecure," opined the New
York Herald in 1853.

    Sadly, it often has been the very groups that have been badly treated who
have become the most intolerant (as Buchanan, the Irish Catholic, demonstrates).
Long after the Civil War, Cose says, the Irish and other groups situated near
the bottom of white society "continued to focus their most furious resentments
on others even less able to win respect for their rights."



    Prejudice based on ethnicity, however, always has been easier to overcome in
America than that which is based on color. The sons and daughters of a white
immigrant even Eastern and Southern Europeans who were once considered
"inferior" can blend in to the mainstream. Once the Irish need not apply; now
Irish immigration is encouraged. A provision in the 1990 immigration law gives
special treatment to citizens of Ireland along with other "adversely affected"
countries. The program's sponsors, Sen.  Edward Kennedy and Rep. Brian Donnelly
(both of Irish descent who count a large number of Irish among their
constituents), insisted it was not an ethnic-preference measure. The provision,
however, obviously was intended to bolster European immigration, which has
drastically fallen off in recent years. Once the bulk of our immigration pool,
Europeans now represent only 15 percent of the newcomers.



    Legislators, however, could no longer cavalierly ignore the rest of the
world, says Cose. Other groups, including Hispanics and Asian-Americans, also
demanded special treatment. The result?  We now have a law that allows the
highest immigration ever: 15-million people by the year 2000.

    This, of course, is the irony of American immigration. For although
throughout our history we have been exclusionary, mean-spirited and downright
racist in our immigration policies, we have continued to let an unprecedented
number of immigrants of all colors, races and creeds into the country, and
eventually even have been convinced to give most of them the vote. "Again and
again, America has been forced to acknowledge that xenophobia is fundamentally
incompatible with the Constitution and the Declaration of Independence documents
that have worn infinitely better than the prejudices of the men who created
them," says Cose.

    But, as he points out in an all-too-brief epilogue in which he only begins
to explore the implications of our immigration policies, we have paid a high
price for our constant fear of the other. Animosity aimed at foreign-born
minorities, as well as native-born blacks, has alienated whole segments of our
population, making them magnets for conflict and hostility, he warns. As the
debates over the new immigration law and their implication that some ethnic
groups still are more worthy than others show, "no racial minority group has
totally outgrown America's prejudice," Cose says. The recent reaction to the
Haitian boat people certainly attests to that.

    Now the largest number of immigrants to America come from such diverse
places as Mexico, the Philippines, Vietnam, the Dominican Republic, Korea,
China, India, the former Soviet Union, Jamaica, Iran and El Salvador. Although
racial animosity and anti-foreign sentiment have proved to be a durable
political tool, particularly during times of stress, can we really afford to
continue to insist that certain ethnicities and races are more desirable than
others?

    "America is in the process of assembling an array of ethnicities and races
unlike anything previously assembled," Cose concludes.  "If we are wise, we will
choose to make that a virtue."
 Margo Hammond is book editor for the Times.

LOAD-DATE: November 4, 1992

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: BLACK AND WHITE PHOTO; COLOR DRAWING, Rossie Newson; Ellis Cose; the
Statue of Liberty

TYPE: COLUMN

                            Times Publishing Company


                              171 of 187 DOCUMENTS

                         St. Petersburg Times (Florida)

                      May 30, 1992, Saturday, City Edition

Judge issues new ban on logging

SECTION: NATIONAL; NATIONAL DIGEST; Pg. 7A

LENGTH: 508 words

DATELINE: SEATTLE; WASHINGTON



A federal judge on Friday imposed a preliminary injunction on timber sales from
national forests in the Pacific Northwest, extending a nearly 15-month ban to
ensure adequate protection of the northern spotted owl. U.S. District Judge
William Dwyer, who on Thursday ordered the U.S. Forest Service to rework its
plan to protect the threatened species, said the injunction was necessary during
the brief period required to complete the revision. "Not only is the loss of old
growth permanent and irreparable, the timber industry itself would be adversely
affected if sales were awarded that had to be nullified later," the judge said.
 Resident aliens' rights are defined
 WASHINGTON Ruling for a Palestinian that the government wants to deport, a
federal judge said in a decision announced Friday that resident aliens are
entitled to the same First Amendment protections as U.S. citizens. U.S. District
Judge Joyce Hens Green ruled that the government had violated the constitutional
rights of Fouad Yacoub Rafeedie of Houston. The government sought to deport him
because it said he supports terrorist organizations, the Palestinian Youth
Organization and the Popular Front for the Liberation of Palestine. Green wrote
that "although the government plainly may have a legitimate interest in
regulating subversive conduct, it cannot broadly prohibit teaching or advocating
unpopular tenets, or association with an organization that teaches or advocates
such doctrines." The Justice Department and the Immigration and Naturalization
Service did not comment Friday.
 Briefly . . .
 Food stamp list up: The U.S. food stamp list is up for the eighth month in a
row with a record 25.7-million people receiving benefits, the U.S. Food and
Nutrition Service said Friday. According to the new tally, 10.2 percent of
Americans received food stamps during March, the latest month for which figures
were available. The new enrollment total was 323,000 higher than the
25.4-million recorded for February and 2.77-million higher than March 1991.
Florida added 90,000 people in March for a total of 1.44-million.
 Texans have lottery fever: Texans plunged into the state's new lottery Friday,
risking more than $ 1-million an hour on instant-win tickets that offer a chance
to win up to $ 10,000. By 8 p.m., the state comptroller's office estimated that
22.7-million of the $ 1 tickets were sold more than one for every Texan. Sales
started at 6 a.m. Odds of winning one of the weekly $ 1-million drawings with a
single ticket were about 1 in 41.6-million. Texas becomes the 35th state with a
lottery.
 Rocket launch delayed: The launch of an Atlas rocket from Cape Canaveral was
postponed Friday because of a malfunctioning fuel valve and stormy weather. The
launch will be rescheduled for this evening if the suspect valve is cleared for
flight, said Jack Isabel, a spokesman for rocket maker General Dynamics Corp.
The rocket holds the $ 102-million Intelsat-K communications satellite, which is
to be hoisted into a 22,300-mile-high orbit.

LOAD-DATE: November 3, 1992

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: DIGEST

                            Times Publishing Company


                              172 of 187 DOCUMENTS

                         St. Petersburg Times (Florida)

                     June 3, 1992, Wednesday, City Edition

Amid tragedy, immigrant excels

BYLINE: TERESA D. BROWN

SECTION: NATIONAL; Pg.  1A

LENGTH: 802 words

DATELINE: TAMPA



Paola Sequeira has known a lot of pain in her young life.

    She was a refugee from the Nicaraguan civil war.

    Her father was killed in an earthquake.

    Her brother was killed in a plane crash that left her mother disabled.

    Yet, the 17-year-old Brandon High School student will experience a triumph
today. She will graduate first in her class.

    Soon, she hopes, she will begin the long road to becoming a doctor.

    "I don't know how to respond to it," said Paola, who couldn't speak English
until she was 10. "I just say yes, I'm valedictorian."

    But her happiness could be short-lived.

    She is not a U.S. citizen, nor is she permanently registered as a foreign
student in the United States. That has kept her from getting financial aid.

    That money would have allowed her to attend top-flight schools such as
Cornell, Duke, Boston and Johns Hopkins universities all of which accepted her
for pre-medical school work.

    And her lack of citizenship could result in deportation.

    If Paola is allowed to stay in the country, she plans to enroll at the
University of South Florida. USF has offered her two scholarships, but she can
not accept them because of the citizenship problem.

    Although her adopted parents, Clarence and Brunilda Bender, say they can
afford the in-state resident tuition of $ 50 per credit hour, they consider the
situation unfair.

    "She has worked so hard. She doesn't, you know, party," said Mrs.  Bender.
"She just works to get good grades so she can to to college."

    Paolo said she is just trying to stay focused on her goals.

    "I can't help but get upset, but I have to remember the important thing is
that I get my education," she said.

    The long journey that brought Paolo to this point began in war-torn Managua
in 1982.

    That's when Paolo's parents, who lived there, decided that their two girls
might not survive the violence of Nicaragua's civil war.

    Paolo and Javiera, 7 and 5 at the time, were sent to Tampa to live with the
Benders, who are the children's aunt and uncle.

    They arrived speaking only Spanish.

    Television, reading aloud, bilingual teachers and Bender's inability to
speak Spanish forced the children to learn the new language.

    The Benders say their nieces excelled.

    Then came what seemed like an unending series of tragedies.

    Three years after they arrived in the United States, the children's father,
Roberto Antonio Sequeira, died in an earthquake in Mexico.

    Then their mother, Elda, and their 12-year-old brother were in a plane crash
in Managua. The brother died and the mother was severely disabled.

    "Because of the war in Nicaragua, the girls came here on tourist visas,"
Mrs. Bender said. "We had the idea that they would only be in the U.S. with me
for a short time but the war continued and her father died. . . . Things
changed."

    Even as Paola earned top grades in her sophomore year at Brandon High,
tragedy struck again. Her uncle and aunt, Ernesto and Emma Lenore Sequeira, were
killed in a plane crash in Honduras.

    Through it all, Paola struggled to do the best she could.

    As she sent off college applications, she looked forward to the possibility
of a prestigious college education. She wanted to attend Johns Hopkins.

    But because she had never received permanent citizenship, financial aid
wasn't a possibility.

    Although Paola has lived in the country for 10 years, she has been here
either on a tourist visa or a student visa. She didn't apply for U.S.
citizenship because she thought she would be going home.

    As soon as she accepts her diploma today, her student visa no longer will be
valid, said James Minton, an Immigration and Naturalization Service officer.
That's because student visas are issued to foreigners who intend to return to
their homelands.

    Paola considers the United States her home.

    To become a citizen, she will have to apply for naturalization when she
becomes 18 next year, and wait five years before being sworn in as a citizen.

    That would be in 1998.

    On Friday, Paola will try to head off the inevitable deportation letter the
U.S. government will send her in light of her graduation.

    Rep. Sam Gibbons, a Tampa Democrat, has set up an appointment with
immigration officials to help her stay in the country.

    In the meantime, Paola still aspires to go to Johns Hopkins. But that will
depend on financial aid and her immigration status.

    "I might become a doctor before I get all this cleared up," she said.

LOAD-DATE: November 3, 1992

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: COLOR PHOTO; Paola Sequeira

                            Times Publishing Company


                              173 of 187 DOCUMENTS

                         St. Petersburg Times (Florida)

                       June 7, 1992, Sunday, City Edition

The right to be different

BYLINE: Jacob Neusner

SECTION: PERSPECTIVE; Pg. 1D

LENGTH: 1656 words



Elections in France and Germany have brought to the fore considerable public
concern about the impact of immigrants on those societies. Workers fear
competition for scarce jobs. Citizens fear inundation by foreigners to the
national consensus. So it is not surprising that, in this country, too, the
issue of immigration demands attention.

    For us, in general, the issue is not framed in political terms, as it is in
Western Europe. True to our pragmatic tradition, we have preferred to raise the
economic question of immigration: Are there jobs? Free-market and libertarian
conservatives have long favored immigration as a medium for establishing a free
market in labor, much as, through a common market with Mexico and Canada, we are
forming a free market in trade.

    The received American system is multicultural. To us that means everyone is
welcome, but no one is privileged; everyone can make a place, no one can demand
one; everyone can compete, no one can claim special rights by reason of skin
color or language or place of national origin. That received, old, traditional,
rooted system of the social order in this country amazes the rest of the world.




   Germany is a highly diverse society in fact; but in its theory of itself,
Germany has yet to come to grips with its own diversity.  Germans of Turkish,
Portuguese, Spanish, Italian and Greek origin today, like Jewish Germans who
lived a thousand years in Germany in times past, find themselves foreigners in
the country of their birth: assumed to belong somewhere else. But that is not
the case of Americans of Turkish, Portuguese, Spanish, Italian and Greek origin.
Britons from Pakistan, of Islamic religion, or from the Caribbean, of African
color, form tight little islands for themselves, entering only with difficulty
into the mainstream of society. Italians do not know how to make Italians out of
Somalis or Libyans. But that is not so in this country.

    There is another, radical multiculturalism, which wants an America without a
common language and a shared consensus of values. But the radicals reject the
traditions of this country, and the rest of us mean to protect and defend them;
multiculturalism in its radical wing formulation rejects the American system we
have known for close to 400 years, from the founding of Virginia and
Massachusetts. It is exclusivist, arbitrary, unfair, distinguishing as it does
between legitimate and illegitimate bigotry: police violence against blacks is
evil, mob violence against whites is okay.



   We worry that some people have a more compelling gripe against the common
good than others: Some are owed, and others are supposed to pay for crimes or
sins they did not commit. Imputed guilt, inherited obligations to entire classes
of persons these form the burden of this other multiculturalism. Out of that
definition of American society comes the concern that America is turning itself
into another Canada and breaking up.



   But the power of America has been that the American system has the power to
make an American out of anyone. The astonishing power of the American cultural
system to define an America that is black as well as white, Muslim and Judaic as
well as Christian, Asian and African as well as European, and yes,
Spanish-speaking as well as English speaking, that system begins with the very
beginnings of this country. This country was multiracial as soon as whites
joined the Native Americans on this continent, and within the same decade,
brought blacks here as well.

    America has never not been a multiracial society, though we have not always
been clear on what that must mean, and though much that that has meant has
produced misery for blacks in particular.  We have been diverse in religious
life from the beginnings as well, with Anglicans and Puritans contending. At
every point in our history, as much as today, we have been a multilingual
society as well. It is the multitude of languages that has guaranteed we should
all speak at least one language in common, which is the American English
language.

    What is wrong with multiculturalism as its radical advocates present it to
us is that it is exclusive, but the American system has been inclusive. In
seeking the worthy goal of according respect for all groups, multiculturalism
assigns "compensatory," therefore discriminatory, privilege to some groups over
others, giving a hearing to some minorities but not others, recognizing as
valuable the special cultural heritage of this one but not that one.

    So multicultural public policy in fact contradicts the multicultural ideal
of this country: no to "dead white Europeans," yes to some few, select others.
Since this country contains many more minorities than multiculturalism chooses
to recognize, what we have in this travesty of cultural liberalism is a new
exclusionism, an inversion of the old prejudices, not a step toward a still more
open society.

    In its correct rejection of radical multiculturalism, conservative, centrist
public policy correctly defends the recognition that Western civilization has
defined this country and not Asian or African and "dead white male Europeans"
have given us most of what has made this country a city on a hill, a model and a
beacon and a goal and goad to the rest of humanity. Conservative cultural policy
wishes so I think to keep the doors open to everybody, not to close the doors to
anybody. The radicals wish to dismantle a 300-year-old experiment in the
building of an ever-opening society let us not do their work for them.

    What then of Spanish-speaking America, the more than 20-million Americans of
Mexican, Cuban, Puerto Rican and other Hispanic origin? In the case of millions
of these Americans, they did not come to America, America came to them. Puerto
Rico, south Texas, New Mexico, Arizona, and California this country spread over
them.  Mexicans crossing the border enter lands that, scarcely a century and a
half ago, belonged to their country and their language and their culture. So,
for a long time now, the American system has encompassed a considerable Hispanic
component, and, as Texas, New Mexico, Arizona and California and South Florida
show, on the whole this country is better for it.

    But, people ask, what about the issue of language? Is American English
losing its paramount position? And are we going to go the way of Canada or South
Africa or Belgium or other bi- and multilingual countries, unable to call upon a
single, shared, language to express a single, shared culture?

    I think not. The American language, bearer of the riches of countless
immigrant groups, changes in response to Spanish, as much as it has to Yiddish
or German or Italian; as much as our cuisine has changed because new people came
and taught us to eat new things. But over time, no immigrant group has found
itself able to persuade its children to remain in a linguistic ghetto, and the
third generation of every immigrant group has found its way into the linguistic
mainstream of this country.


   True, because of the enormous power of Spanish nearby, people wonder whether
the Spanish-speaking population will find its way into the mainstream as did
prior groups. Not a single immigrant group in 350 years has preserved its
language. All have become monolingual in American English by the third
generation. For good or ill, like it or not, the Spanish-speaking peoples of
this country are going to have American English-speaking grandchildren or
great-grandchildren, and the only open question is whether the grandchildren
will understand the language of the grandparents.  Anyone who doubts that law of
American life and culture had better find some contrary evidence.

    Ours is not a melting pot, but it also is no mosaic. We are something else,
something different and special. We do not all aspire to become Protestants; but
in our diverse religions, all of us have made our own some of the strengths of
Protestant Christianity: its affirmation of individualism, for example, its
appreciation for religious freedom. We do not all wish to become British, but we
have all made our own the language that we have inherited from the English. We
do not want British passports, but we do want the laws and traditions of
parliamentary democracy and equal protection of laws. Ours is a diverse society
built upon a coherent foundation of values and shared beliefs and ambitions, and
the remarkable strength of our institutions to accommodate change and to make a
place for difference derives from a cogent ideal. It is not an ideal of race or
color, ethnic priority or linguistic preference.

    Ours is an ideal framed in terms of the common good, the public interest,
but also, the right to be different and the right to privacy and individuality.
We are not a melting pot, because we do not aspire that everyone become one
thing; and we are not a mosaic because none of us wants to live in a broken
society of mutually hostile ghettos.

    All of us want to swim in the mainstream, but we think, too, that there are
currents enough for us all. This country's civil order in history and tradition
accommodates without regard to race, creed, color, previous condition of
servitude, or any of the other distinguishing traits of the population, everyone
who wants a place among us. Ours is a country that long ago has transcended a
multiculturalism of ethnic cheerleading and reverse-snobbery.

    Most of us think it is demeaning to accord political preferment to scheduled
castes, whether defined by race or gender or sexual orientation. We have
outgrown those things, because this country is exceptional from its beginnings.
 Jacob Neusner is distinguished research professor of religious studies at the
University of South Florida.

LOAD-DATE: November 3, 1992

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                            Times Publishing Company


                              174 of 187 DOCUMENTS

                         St. Petersburg Times (Florida)

                      June 14, 1992, Sunday, City Edition

Immigrant couple sees daughter on U.S. team

BYLINE: GARY SHELTON

SECTION: SPORTS; OLYMPICS; Pg. 3C

LENGTH: 714 words



How do you get from Buenos Aires to Barcelona, Spain? Easy.  You go to
Baltimore, dream and take a right.

    At least, you do if you're 15-year-old Tamara Levinson, member of the United
States Olympic team, thank you very much.

    A dream came true for Levinson and her family last weekend when she made the
U.S. team in rhythmic gymnastics. A month earlier, she had been sixth in the
nationals, and her Olympic hopes were datelined 1996.

    But there was more to Levinson's dream than speeding up her progress. Hers
is the story of immigrant parents who risked more than their friends advised,
then watched as it paid off.

    When Tamara was 3, long before her dreams included Olympic theme songs, the
Levinsons brought their three children to Maryland from Argentina to find better
opportunities.

    When one of those opportunities became the Olympics, however, Isidro and
Viviana held nothing back. They hired a Russian coach, Catherine Yakhimovich.
They purchased an old body-shop warehouse and converted it into a gym. "We
painted it," Tamara said. "My mom drew things on the wall. We put carpeting in
and made it a happy place to train. We do spend a lot of time there."

    Nowadays, the Levinsons spend a lot of time smiling.

    "We came here as foreigners," Viviana Levinson said. "But we learned, if you
keep together, you can achieve everything you want."
    Byrds of a feather: Boxing missed another chance at a family affair this
week when Patrick Byrd was eliminated in the U.S. Boxing Trials. His older
brother, Chris, is still hopeful of a berth, and his father, Joe, is a coach.

    Not only that, but two older brothers, Tim and Ron, are pro boxers with a
combined record of 12-0. And mother Rose used to train Joe when he fought as a
pro.

    In other words, when you're in Flint, Mich., you don't mess with the Byrds.
"Especially not our sisters," Chris said.

    Chris and Pat train in their basement, where there is a heavy bag.  Pat says
Chris is the toughest of all, but Chris says Pat sometimes gets even by fighting
dirty. "After the bell would ring, I'd hit him low or something," Pat said.

  Deep water: After 20 years of waiting for another Olympic chance, Jamie McEwan
wanted to do it right. So, in order to represent the United States properly, he
left the United States.

    McEwan, who won a bronze medal in whitewater canoeing in 1972, moved to
France a year ago to train on the Olympic course in nearby Barcelona. McEwan was
shut out of the last few Olympics because whitewater was eliminated as a sport.
Whitewater's return has McEwan back in the Games.

  "I really wanted to train on the course," he said. "Obviously, with four
children, you don't make that move lightly. Actually, my wife and I had talked
about living in France as a culturally enriching experience for our children."

    One thing that two decades of waiting have taught McEwan, now 39, is how to
dress. McEwan still laughs about his 1972 suit.

    "It was all provided by Sears, and the styles were a little different," he
said. "This was a polyester shirt, a polyester coat and polyester tie. I think
the socks were also polyester. White patent leather shoes. The coat was white
also and the pants red, a little orangish I believe. It was a brilliant costume.


    "We were standing in the field in the center of Olympic Stadium, and I noted
people pulling newspapers over their heads. I couldn't figure out what was going
on until the pigeons were let loose nearby.  So all of these brilliant white
sports coats were covered with pigeon droppings."

    Foiled again: If Caitlin Bilodeaux and her husband, Jean-Marie Banos, ever
claim their own coat of arms, rest assured swords will be involved.

    Bilodeaux is the top women's foil fencer in the United States; Banos has
qualified for sabre for the Canadian team. They live in Montreal, where Caitlin
is a kitchen designer for a Swedish furniture company.

  Golden moments: Former Olympian Jim Ryun, on why there are so few new faces in
running: "We've become a little fat. We're missing a lot of the younger
generation. They're couch potatoes, Nintendo addicts."


LOAD-DATE: November 3, 1992

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: COLOR PHOTO, Associated Press; Kim Zmeskal flips on the vault in the
U.S. Olympic Gymnastics Trials at Baltimore.

TYPE: COLUMN

                            Times Publishing Company


                              175 of 187 DOCUMENTS

                         St. Petersburg Times (Florida)

                      August 3, 1992, Monday, City Edition

Setting up shop in a new land

BYLINE: KIM NORRIS

SECTION: BUSINESS; CENTERPIECE; Pg. 10

LENGTH: 763 words



They often have strong family and community ties, determination and the belief
that, if you work hard enough in this country, you will succeed.

    But they struggle to make a living and learn a new language and culture
while battling stereotypes and bureaucratic red tape.

    They are the nation's immigrants, coming to our shores daily from all parts
of the globe.

    In the 1980s more immigrants 8.7-million came to the United States than in
any decade since the early 1900s. In the 1970s and '80s, immigrants accounted
for 36 percent of our nation's population growth.

    In the Tampa Bay area, one in five of the foreign-born residents arrived
during the 1980s. In one county, Hillsborough, the immigrant population grew by
37 percent in that decade.

    Immigrants are drawn here by the weather, their families, history and the
promise of a better life.

    From 1982 to 1991, nearly 422,000 of the immigrants who entered the United
States said they planned to live in Florida.

    Almost 38 percent of the U.S. immigrants in those years came from Cuba and
Haiti.

    As they arrive, many immigrants are starting their own businesses.

    Their businesses are as diverse as the North Suncoast beverage
distributorships owned by three brothers from India and a Spanish grocery store
in Tampa owned by a Korean.

    The immigrants start businesses for the same reason American-born citizens
do: the chance to go as far as their own efforts will take them.

    But they also start their own businesses because they find that existing
jobs are often closed to them.

    Some foreign-born entrepreneurs have strong support networks of friends and
families who help each other with training and financial backing.

    Koreans, for instance, often form a Keh a monthly social in which trusted
friends and relatives pool their money and take turns withdrawing from the
communal pot. The money is used for business purposes, such as starting or
expanding an endeavor or paying taxes. Other groups rely on less structured
networks.

    Retail and service-oriented businesses are popular start ups for immigrants
as they are for entrepreneurs in general.

    That's because they don't require as much capital as, say, technology or
manufacturing undertakings, and they often can be run by a few family members.

    It's difficult to quantify the number of foreign-born entrepreneurs in Tampa
Bay, or to draw direct correlations between the number of immigrants and the
number of businesses they start.

    Statistics on this segment of our society are woefully lacking.

    The U.S. Census Bureau, from which other agencies cull their statistics,
tracks only businesses started by minority groups, such as Asians, Hispanics,
blacks and the all-encompassing "others."

    It does not break Asians into nationalities, for example, and does not keep
separate statistics on recent immigrants.

    Nevertheless, unprecedented numbers of businesses are being started here and
across the nation at a time when record numbers of immigrants are coming to the
United States.

    Following are stories of some people of other nations who are trying to grab
a piece of the entrepreneurial dream in the Tampa Bay area.
 Florida immigrants: Where do they come from?
 A total of 421,885 immigrants entered the country wth plans to move to Florida
between 1982 and 1991. Here's a look at where they came from and the percentage
of the total their homeland represented. Immigrants were asked to give their
intended residence upon entering the U.S. and these people listed Florida.
 Europe: 8.72 percent
  United Kingdom: 2.67%
  Germany+: 1.1%
  Soviet Union: .40%
  Italy: .39%
 Asia: 13.78 percent
  India: 1.48%
  Korea: 1.12%
  Philippines: 2.49%
  Vietnam: 2.3%
 Africa: 1.34 percent
  Egypt: .22%
  Nigeria: .18%
  South Africa: .22%
 Oceania: .22 percent
  Australia: .13%
  New Zealand: .05%
  North America: 55.5 percent
  Candada: 3.42%
  Cuba: 26.68%
  Mexico: 1.66%
  Haiti: 11.19%
   Dominican Republic: 2.15%
 Central America: 8.44 percent
  El Salvador: .78%
  Honduras: 1.84%
  Panama: .95%
 South America: 12 percent
  Argentina: .84%
  Colombia: 4.71%
  Peru: 1.59%
 +Figures include West and East Germany
 Note: Immigrants' countries of origin determmined by place of birth.
 Source: U.S. Department of Justice, Immigration and Naturalization Service.

LOAD-DATE: October 1, 1992

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: COLOR PHOTO, JIM STEM; COLOR PHOTO, MAURICE RIVENBARK; COLOR CHART; Tak
Choi, his wife Sharon and son Hendrik pose with relatives at the Oceanic
Oriental Supermarket in Tampa, (ran p.1); Jorge Fernandez in his Treasures of
the Carribean grocery store, (ran p.3); Charts percentages of immigrants coming
to Florida and their countries of origin

                            Times Publishing Company


                              176 of 187 DOCUMENTS

                         St. Petersburg Times (Florida)

                    September 6, 1992, Sunday, City Edition

Fear keeps aid from immigrants

SECTION: NATIONAL; NOTEBOOK; Pg. 8A

LENGTH: 397 words



Despite the aid flooding into South Florida, hundreds of immigrants are  missing
out because of language barriers and fear, community activists say.

Community activists said fear of military and immigration authorities was
keeping some Haitians and Central Americans away from aid distribution points.
Others hadn't gotten word of relief efforts in a language they could
understand.

On Friday, the U.S. Border Patrol, responding to unconfirmed reports of
harassment, pulled out 18 agents who had been bringing supplies to labor  camps.

The measure was meant to reassure immigrants whose homes and jobs were
destroyed by Hurricane Andrew, but some officials think it could backfire
because Border Patrol officers are knowledgeable about the isolated camps  where
the workers live.

South Florida's nurseries and orchards had employed thousands of Haitians,
Salvadorans, Guatemalans and Mexicans. Most are unaccustomed to seeking
government help.

"The helicopters scare the hell out of people," said Jack T. Leonard, who  works
with a community of 1,200 Maya Indians from Guatemala. "They associate
helicopters with strafing. "And nobody will go to the tent city because  they're
afraid of the Army. The army in Guatemala razed their houses and moved  them
into camps."  Taking advantage of crisis

On the day the hurricane struck, an executive at one of the nation's  largest
insurers wrote a memo calling the hurricane a chance to raise  premiums, an
internal memo shows.

"This is an opportunity to get price increases now," wrote J. W.  Greenberg, an
executive vice president at American International Group and son  of company
Chairman Maurice Greenberg. "We must be the first, and it begins  by
establishing the psychology with our own people."

The memo was obtained and released by the National Insurance Consumer
Organization, an advocacy group.

State and national insurance regulators Saturday called for an  investigation.

Bush expands aid to La.

President Bush announced on Saturday that the government would pay all  public
assistance costs in Louisiana caused by Hurricane Andrew.

Under normal cost-sharing requirements, state and local governments would  be
expected to pay for 25 percent of the costs.

The action is similar to a step Bush took to ease the financial burden  caused
by the storm in Florida.

LOAD-DATE: October 13, 1992

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                            Times Publishing Company


                              177 of 187 DOCUMENTS

                         St. Petersburg Times (Florida)

                     October 25, 1992, Sunday, City Edition

Aliens take taxis to get into Canada

BYLINE: JIM FOX

SECTION: NATIONAL; CANADA REPORT; Pg. 21A

LENGTH: 336 words



"Take me to Canada" is what U.S. cab drivers in border communities are
increasingly hearing.

Immigration agents say more than 300 people a week pull up to Niagara Falls
border crossings in taxis to claim refugee status in Canada.

Canadian immigration authorities say the "refugees" are using the United  States
as a back door into Canada "to get at this country's welfare and  medical
plans," the Toronto Sun reported.

Most of the aliens arrive by plane in New York City and Buffalo, N.Y.,  "and
head right away for Canada," said immigration spokesman Jim Kidd.

Facts and figures

The Bank of Canada lowered its key interest rate Thursday to 7.37 percent  from
7.81, but the prime lending rate remained at 8.25 percent.

The Canadian dollar ended the week lower at 80.12 U.S. cents, while a U.S.
dollar was $ 1.248 Canadian.

Stock markets were mixed, with Toronto's composite index at 3,253 points.

Lotto 6-49: (Wednesday) 7, 18, 26, 35, 38 and 48; bonus 49. (Oct. 17) 2,  13,
15, 24, 33 and 35; bonus 39.

In brief

Some shoppers who go to the United States to buy liquor and cigarettes  will
soon have to pay extra taxes and markups. The Ontario government will ask
customs officers to collect an extra $ 13 Canadian for each carton of
cigarettes, $ 11.75 per bottle of liquor and $ 1.07 for six packs of beer for
amounts above legal limits.

People over 100 are the fastest-growing age group in Canada. There will be  more
than 1,200 people celebrating the century mark this year, joining about  4,000
others 100 and older, says Statistics Canada.



City officials in Sudbury, Ontario, are threatening to fine a woman because
they don't like some of her dinner guests.

The problem involves the bird feeders Mary Maslan, 76, has in her backyard.
They attract many types of birds, including pigeons.

The regular feeding of pigeons from homes is a bylaw infraction subject to
fines of up to $ 5,000, she was told after neighbors complained to the city.

LOAD-DATE: October 28, 1992

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                            Times Publishing Company


                              178 of 187 DOCUMENTS

                         St. Petersburg Times (Florida)

                   November 21, 1992, Saturday, City Edition

Immigrants recall their own journeys

SOURCE: Religious News Service

BYLINE: GUSTAV SPOHN

SECTION: RELIGION; Pg. 1E

LENGTH: 773 words



What American over the age of 5, sitting down to a Thanksgiving meal, doesn't
know the story.

This late-November holiday harks back to the core of the American immigrant
experience, recalling an event in 1621 when the Pilgrims of Plymouth Colony,
Protestant outcasts from England, gathered with their Indian friends for a
feast of roast fowl.

They gave thanks for blessings; they shared customs; and no doubt, being  human,
they told stories.

And so it is for today's new Americans, people of many lands who embellish  the
traditional turkey dinner with elements of their own gastronomic  traditions -
rice cakes and tamales, hummus and caviar - as they give thanks  for surviving
hardships of their own.

"We should overcome our difficulties as immigrants. We should become  pioneers
for coming generations," said the Rev. Hee Min Park, pastor of the  7,000-member
Young Mak Presbyterian Church in Los Angeles. He predicts that  his
congregation's Thanksgiving service will be a joyful time, a celebration  when
recent immigrants, much like the Pilgrims of the past, look to the task  ahead.

For many of the newcomers, Thanksgiving is a favorite holiday because it is  so
distinctly American, so deeply rooted in their new nation's past. And for  some
it is an easy step to identify with the suffering of the first Americans,  who
made the 65-day journey on the Mayflower, an overcrowded and  underprovisioned
ship.

Many Haitians in Miami, recent survivors of perilous journeys by boat, have  a
deep understanding of what the Pilgrims went through. They think of the
Pilgrims as America's "first boat people," political exiles like themselves.

It's a bit of similar history that adds special significance to the Haitian
celebration of Thanksgiving, according to the Rev. Thomas Wenski, a Roman
Catholic priest in the Archdiocese of Miami who ministers to thousands of
Haitians in three congregations. "I tell them that there's no reason why the
latest boat people can't join in and thank God for surviving, if not much
else."

Like the Pilgrims who experienced severe hardships in their new land, many  of
the Haitian refugees now see the boat trips as the first of many struggles  to
come. In Miami, many Haitians found themselves in the midst of the  devastation
of Hurricane Andrew.

Yet, said Wenski, the Haitian tradition has always been to offer thanks,
despite hardship. He quoted a Creole proverb that, roughly translated, means,
"By saying "thanks' you're also asking God to continue his favors."

Other immigrants have survival tales of their own to recount.

In Los Angeles, Koreans are still hurting from the racially triggered riots
that rocked the city in the spring and left many of their businesses in ashes.
Some of those newcomers see the story of the Pilgrims as a ray of hope that
they, too, will triumph against the odds.

Park said they also find hope in a recent event: the election this month of
Chung Jay Kim to the U.S. House of Representatives. He will be the first
Korean-American to serve Los Angeles there.

In San Jose, Calif., the broad cultural diversity of Saint Philip's  Episcopal
Church is reflected at Thanksgiving services when immigrants from  Southeast
Asia, Latin America and the Pacific Islands join American Indians at  a harvest
altar to deposit gifts of fruit and grain. American Indians burn  sage and sweet
grass at the altar, a reminder, said the Rev. Jerry Drino, of  "the generosity
of the Indians to the immigrant people."

Drino, the pastor, views Thanksgiving as a way for his diverse congregation  to
share in a common custom, to make a bit of American culture their own,  while
incorporating foods and customs of their native lands.

"Most countries have some kind of harvest festival that easily adopts  itself to
the Thanksgiving motif," he said.

Marianna Morozov, a Russian Jew who settled in Kansas City, Mo., 17 years  ago,
said Russians have no harvest festival comparable to Thanksgiving. But  she
knows what it means to leave one's homeland for another country.

When she arrived in America as an adult in the mid-1970s, she got a  full-blown
version of the holiday from the teacher in her adult English class.

"She even taught us how to cook, what to eat," Morozov said.

While turkey is the centerpiece of the Morozov Thanksgiving dinner, some
Russian elements, such as caviar or winter salad, are added whenever possible.

What the family is celebrating, said Morozov, is, "We are here, we are  glad,
God bless America, and thanks for everything.

"We feel like Pilgrims," she said.

LOAD-DATE: November 27, 1992

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: COLOR DRAWING, (2); Drawing of pilgrims working in the fields.; A
barrel of fresh vegetables.

                            Times Publishing Company


                              179 of 187 DOCUMENTS

                         St. Petersburg Times (Florida)

                     February 9, 1996, Friday, City Edition

Bill would add to costs of hiring foreign workers

BYLINE: ELLEN DEBENPORT

SECTION: NATIONAL; Pg. 8A

LENGTH: 1363 words



Linda Kilcrease had the same thought that probably occurs to every American
worker who is laid off: "How am I going to pay my mortgage?"

The massive insurance company she worked for in New York hired an outside
contractor to take over its data processing. American International Group laid
off 250 employees, including Kilcrease.

The contractor brought workers from India to fill the jobs, and the  Americans
at AIG had to train their foreign replacements in their final days  at work.

"They threw us out in the street after we built their systems," said  Kilcrease,
48.

It hurt. But this is legal in America.

What made this case famous last year was that the contractor, Syntel, was
paying the Indians far less money than the Americans had made. It was caught
and fined by the U.S. Labor Department, but some of the laid-off Americans are
still looking for work. Kilcrease was lucky enough to find another job.

Now here comes Congress.

Sen. Alan Simpson has introduced a bill that he says would make businesses
think twice about laying off Americans to hire foreign workers. Among other
things, he wants them to pay foreign workers 5 percent more than an American
would make.

And in some cases, businesses would have to pay the government a fee of  $
10,000 or 10 percent of the foreign worker's salary, whichever is higher, to
train Americans in the same field.

Simpson isn't talking about migrant farm work or garment industry sweat  shops.
The jobs he is targeting are largely in the computer industry and the  health
field, with salaries that start near $ 40,000.

And this isn't the usual political matchup. Simpson, a Wyoming Republican  who
is retiring this year, has aligned himself on this bill with liberal Sen.  Ted
Kennedy, D-Mass., and Labor Secretary Robert Reich against an angry bunch  of
business lobbyists led by Bill Gates of Microsoft.

Gates says the Simpson bill would be "an absolute disaster."

Business people bristle at the accusation that they are throwing Americans  out
of work and bringing in foreigners at slave wages.

Syntel broke the law by paying less, said Harris Miller of the Information
Technology Association of America, a Washington lobbyist for the computer
industry. But, "To say this is a symptom of a larger problem is absolute
nonsense."

Businesses say the foreign workers usually are brought to fill labor  shortages
or bring specialized skills that Americans may not have. They say  that it costs
more to recruit them and pay the expense of bringing them here  and that the law
already demands that they be paid the prevailing wage.

For instance, Klockner Packaging Machinery in Sarasota and Clearwater has  25 or
30 immigrants among its 300-person work force, hired either for their  technical
skills or to help develop export markets because they speak foreign  languages
and understand other cultures, said Joseph Sabol, human resources  manager.

"By bringing in that foreign person, we've created jobs for a substantial
number of Americans. I don't think it takes away. I think it adds, creates
jobs," he said.

He and Charles Murray, vice president of sales and marketing, see Simpson's
bill as counterproductive.

"When I read about these guys saying they don't want this knowledge in the
United States where you have all these resources, it's crazy," said Murray, a
British immigrant.

Foreigners who come to the United States for specific jobs may come with
permanent visas, intending to stay forever.

But more likely, they come on a temporary visa called an H-1B, which allows
them to stay up to six years.

Technically, they are not immigrants, but they often end up staying anyway.  In
1994, more than half the immigrants who were granted permanent status, or  green
cards, were already here as professional workers who had been admitted  on H-1B
visas or as students.

"This isn't done because we're getting cheap labor, I assure you," said  David
van der Merwe, president of Saftronics in Fort Myers. He immigrated from  South
Africa 20 years ago and runs a company that makes industrial motor  controls.

About five of his 160 workers are foreigners on special skills visas. They  have
key jobs in development and engineering, he said.

"The quantity is the problem. We are not producing enough graduates in the  hard
sciences. The large corporations tend to gobble up the limited supply  that
exists. The smaller high-tech companies are simply starved for the talent
that's around," he said.

Applications to hire foreign workers on H-1B visas are soaring, the Labor
Department says, up 82 percent from 1992 to 1994.

But businesses say it's important to keep the numbers in perspective. The  U.S.
labor force has 130-million workers, and perhaps 390,000 foreigners are  on
H-1Bs at any given time, according to the Labor Department.

Simpson's bill would keep yearly admissions at 65,000, the current level.

The foreign workers are heavily concentrated in a few states - California  and
Florida lead the list - and in a few professions.

For instance, 35 percent of the computer programers in California's Silicon
Valley are foreign. Fully half the jobs filled by foreigners are in the health
field.

In Madeira Beach, a company called Interim Therapy Services does nothing  but
recruit physical and occupational therapists from foreign countries to  work in
the United States for a year or two. The therapists are leased to  hospitals and
nursing homes to fill shortages.

"I think almost anybody would support the idea of protecting American  jobs,"
said Rich Milroy, the marketing director. "But in this case, I think  the
overriding need is to provide adequate health care."

Simpson and the Labor Department look with suspicion on job contractors  where
all the employees are foreign, although Interim Therapy has never been  in
trouble with the Labor Department.

Simpson's $ 10,000 fee for hiring foreigners would apply to companies where
more than 10 percent of the employees are on H-1B visas, as well as those on
permanent visas. Milroy said that could drive his company out of business or
inflate the cost of health care.

One reason for the suspicion is that H-1B workers are at the mercy of their
employers. Their visas say they have to stay in the same job. If they quit or
get fired, they have to go home.

So they won't complain about low pay. That's one reason the Labor  Department
has a hard time catching violators like Syntel, said John Fraser,  deputy
administrator of the wage and hour division.

Until recently, the Labor Department had to wait until someone, usually a
competitor, complained that foreign workers were being underpaid before it
could investigate.

Even now when businesses apply to hire foreign workers and promise to pay  the
prevailing wage, the Labor Department doesn't have the authority to check  it
out.

In one embarrassing example, Larry Richards of Austin, Texas, who quit his  job
at IBM to lobby fulltime on behalf of displaced American workers,  submitted a
phony application to hire 40 foreign computer programers at $ 4.50  an hour,
scarcely more than minimum wage.

Labor officials approved it, thinking they had no authority to deny the
application. But Fraser said that kind of obvious violation wouldn't get past
them again. "We have since reconsidered."

The Labor Department says it has no problem with letting businesses hire
workers to fill genuine shortages, but it wants companies to try to find
Americans first and train them if necessary. That is not currently required.

What the Labor Department wants most, Fraser said, is to keep companies  from
laying off entire departments to hire foreigners. "There seems to be  wide
agreement that shouldn't be allowed."

Simpson's bill would forbid companies to hire foreigners within six months  of
laying off Americans.

Businesses warn that if they can't hire the workers they need, they might  be
forced to transfer the work - and all the jobs - to foreign countries.

Simpson's bill is to come before the Senate Judiciary Committee early this
year.

LOAD-DATE: February 9, 1996

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: BLACK AND WHITE PHOTO, RICARDO FERRO; CHARLES MURRAY, of Klockner
Packaging Machinery

                    Copyright 1996 Times Publishing Company


                              180 of 187 DOCUMENTS

                         St. Petersburg Times (Florida)

               April 18, 1996, Thursday, 0 South Pinellas Edition

Markets

SECTION: BUSINESS; Pg. 1E

LENGTH: 679 words



DOW DROPS: IBM's cautious outlook undercut the Dow Jones industrial average  and
the broader market Wednesday as investors took profits on a three-day  winning
streak. IBM accounted for nearly half of the Dow drop.

Nation

FTC OPPOSES MERGER: Claiming the deal will drive up the price of prescriptions
in nine states, the Federal Trade Commission said Wednesday it will sue to
block drugstore chain Rite Aid Corp. from buying competitor Revco D.S. Inc.
Rite Aid said it hopes to reach a settlement with the FTC that will allow the
deal.

HOUSING STARTS SLOW: Housing construction slowed in March, partly because of a
double-digit drop in new apartments. Housing starts fell 3.9 percent, the
Commerce Department reported Wednesday.

FOREIGN WORKERS ARRESTED: In a major crackdown on the employment of illegal
aliens, federal agents have arrested 1,176 foreign workers from 32 countries  at
more than 100 businesses, the Justice Department said Wednesday. The  arrests
resulted from operations by the Immigration and Naturalization Service  in 19
states, including Florida, Puerto Rico and the U.S. Virgin Islands.

SUNTRUST TO SPLIT STOCK: SunTrust Banks Inc. has approved a 2-for-1 split of
the company's common stock to be paid May 21 to shareholders of record May 1.
After payment of the stock dividend in May, the quarterly dividend rate will  be
20 cents per common share and the annual rate will be 80 cents per common  share
for the Atlanta bank holding company.

Tampa Bay/State

POE & BROWN ACQUIRES COMPANY: Poe & Brown Inc., an insurance agency with dual
headquarters in Tampa and Daytona Beach, is buying an Atlanta insurance
brokerage. Poe & Brown will pay an undisclosed amount for B&R International
Inc., which does business as Boger, Reid & Flournoy and sells commercial
insurance and employee-benefit programs.

PAGES EXEC RESIGNS: Richard A. Stimmel has resigned as president, treasurer  and
director of Pages Inc. for health reasons, the company said Wednesday.  Chairman
S. Robert Davis will assume the duties of president while a search is  conducted
for Stimmel's successor at the St.Petersburg-based publisher of  children's
books.

Earnings

FORD PROFITS FALL: Ford Motor Co.'s costs of launching redesigned vehicles
combined with weak U.S. sales for a 58 percent drop in first-quarter profits,
the No. 2 domestic automaker reported Wednesday. The company earned  $
653-million, or 54 cents a share, in first three months of the year, compared
with $ 1.55-billion, or $ 1.44 a share, a year ago.

ALLSTATE EARNINGS FALL: Allstate Corp. said Wednesday its first-quarter
earnings fell nearly 22 percent as the insurer was hit by a surge in claims
after severe winter weather. Net income for the three months ended March 31
fell to $ 424-million, or 94 cents a share, from $ 542-million, or $ 1.21 a
share, a year earlier.

AMR EARNINGS SOAR: AMR Corp., the parent company of American Airlines, said
Wednesday its first-quarter earnings more than quadrupled on the strength of
more passengers, higher fares and lower interest expenses. AMR earned  $
157-million, or $ 2.02 per share, in the quarter ended March 31, compared with
earnings of $ 37-million, or 48 cents per share, a year ago.

TWA CUTS LOSS: Trans World Airlines Inc.'s first-quarter loss narrowed by 70
percent to $ 37-million, or 98 cents a share, compared with a loss of  $
123-million a year ago. The company didn't report earnings-per-share a year
ago.

WINN-DIXIE PROFITS RISE: Winn-Dixie said Wednesday it had net earnings for the
12 weeks ended April 3 of $ 63.3-million, or 42 cents per share, compared with
$ 56.9-million, or 38 cents per share, a year ago.

DOW              DOLLAR              YIELD

30 INDUSTRIALS  VS. JAPANESE YEAN  30-YEAR U.S. BOND

5549.93          108.20               6.81

-70.09           +0.05              +0.02

LOAD-DATE: April 18, 1996

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: DIGEST

                    Copyright 1996 Times Publishing Company


                              181 of 187 DOCUMENTS

                         St. Petersburg Times (Florida)

                     August 13, 1989, Sunday, Tampa Edition

Migrant worker drowns

SECTION: TAMPA BAY AND STATE; Pg. 8B

LENGTH: 187 words

DATELINE: DOVER



DOVER - A 23-year-old migrant farm worker, who authorities said had    been
drinking, drowned in a retention pond Saturday night while    fishing, a
sheriff's deputy said.

     Deputy John Angelo said authorities are not certain what the man's    name
is but they believe he was an illegal alien.

     Angelo said the man had gone fishing at the 150- by 80-foot  retention pond
off Gallagher Road near Dover with another adult and an  11-year-old boy. About
7:40 p.m., the man went into the water, though    his friends said he did not
know how to swim, Angelo said.

     "He was fully clothed - boots and everything," the deputy said.    "We
believe he was intoxicated."

     Within minutes, the man had disappeared beneath the water, and the  other
man called the Hillsborough County Sheriff's Office. A dive team  searched for
the man for more than an hour and a half, finally    recovering his body at 9:30
p.m. in about 20 feet of water.

     Detectives will try and determine where the man is from so that his
relatives can be notified.



LOAD-DATE: November 9, 1992

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DISTRIBUTION: TAMPA BAY AND STATE

                            Times Publishing Company


                              182 of 187 DOCUMENTS

                         St. Petersburg Times (Florida)

                       May 23, 1993, Sunday, City Edition

Cubans inventive in 'stampede' to leave

BYLINE: SUSAN BENESCH

SECTION: NATIONAL; CUBA: SINKING; Pg. 1A

LENGTH: 1598 words



Third in a series.

Faced with food shortages and a worrisome future, large numbers of Cubans  are
leaving the island with government approval to work abroad, or with  tourist
visas, rafts, inner tubes or spurious marriages to foreigners.

Artists and intellectuals are streaming to Spain, Colombia, Venezuela,  Costa
Rica, Mexico and Miami, ostensibly on temporary visas for work or study.  In an
increasingly typical encounter, a Cuban pianist recently strolling in a  Madrid
street at 3 o'clock in the morning heard a cry, "Maestro!" and  suddenly
recognized an old student.

A Miami gallery opening Friday brought together three painters from the  1988
graduating class of the Instituto Superior del Arte, Cuba's main art  school,
and another from the previous year.

All live in Miami, studying English.

Only three of the 15 to 18 painters in the art school's 1988 graduating  class
are still in Cuba, said Ana Albertina Delgado, a classmate who lives in  Miami.
One of the three recently wrote to his exiled friends, asking for  paint. "If he
asked for them, that means there really aren't any," Delgado  said.

The "stampede," as one professor called it, has left those still in Cuba
lonely. A young writer in Havana said, "All of my friends have left the
country, this year and the end of last year. Many have gone on fellowships -
that's the best way to leave" (because it allows the possibility of  returning).
"But they won't be back for a long time.

"I could not do that, or at least it would be very hard for me," the  writer
added. "Whatever anguish I have, I would take with me to another  country.
Changing space (place) is not the solution." But she said, "Maybe  you'll come
back in a year and ask for me, and they'll say I've left for  another country."

Young, recent exiles show less interest in going back to Cuba than
Cuban-Americans who have lived in the United States for 30 years, because they
have painful memories rather than nostalgic ones. What they want most is to
paint, dance, make films or write.

Delgado, the painter now living in Miami, said she and her husband, Adriano
Buergo, another painter, left because there was no more space in Cuba for
artists, literally and figuratively. "You would go to a gallery and they  would
tell you: "Let's see if next year we can give you (an exhibition).' But  you
knew that they wouldn't."

During the late 1980s, the Cuban government began to allow greater freedom  for
artists, exhibiting paintings and sculptures that criticized the  government and
its policies. But in the last several years this tentative  opening has been
closing again.

Delgado, who lived in Mexico City for about a year until she asked for
political asylum during a Miami arts fair in January, noted sadly that people
now ask her more about Cuban politics than about her paintings. Paradoxically,
exile has not freed her from the subject. "I am here precisely because I  don't
want to be involved in that," she said.

But she said the large number of Cubans and Cuban-Americans in Miami made  her
feel more at home there than in Mexico.

In Cuba academics also find themselves under pressure. Some whose work is  not
favored by the government have stopped teaching and spend most of their  time at
home. Scores of others are hoping for visas. Nearly all of the  professors in
the University of Havana's history department have left or are  attempting to
leave, according to one of the university's professors.

Their ticket out is usually an invitation from a university or similar
institution abroad. With invitations, Cuban now frequently get exit permits
from the Cuban government - something that used to be rare.

Once outside Cuba, some ask for political asylum, knowing that means the  Cuban
government will not let them return. Others simply remain abroad for  protracted
work or study.

"They defect every place in the world," said Uva Clavijo, a Florida
International University professor who helped organized a program this weekend
called "Broken Wall - Cuban Artists in Exile since 1989" that included  Friday's
gallery opening.

Automatic acceptance

Cubans who cannot get an invitation to work or study abroad still have many
other ways to leave, and they have been using them all.

A record number of Cubans - 3,200 - left for the United States as political
refugees last year, said the consul at the U.S. Interests Section in Havana,
the equivalent of an embassy. Since 1991, when Cuba lowered the age at which
its citizens were permitted to visit their families abroad from 55 and 50, for
women and men respectively, to 20, American authorities have been flooded with
applications, accompanied by petitions from family members in the United  States
who must vouch for each visiting Cuban.

Last August, there was a backlog of 100,000 applications, said the consul,  who
did not want to be named, although some of those were duplicates from  Cubans
who kept on doggedly filing applications. The United States grants  2,000 such
visas a month, and an unknown number stay permanently in the United  States. Any
Cuban who asks to stay may do so.

Under the Cuban Adjustment Act, Cubans are automatically considered  political
refugees in the United States because of the nature of their  government. No
other nationality, including citizens of other communist  countries, enjoys this
privilege.

"It doesn't matter how a Cuban got into the United States, they will not  be
sent back out of the country," the consul said. That means that although  most
Cubans immigrate to the United States illegally, they are legally  recognized
once they arrive.

That includes the more than 5,000 boat people who arrived during the last  two
years, 48 Cubans aboard a hijacked Aero Caribbean plane whose pilot flew  it to
Florida in December 1992, and Orestes Lorenzo, the pilot of a MiG-23  Cuban Air
Force jet whose Cuba-to-Key West flight lasted only a few minutes in  1991.
Lorenzo broke U.S. law when he flew back to Cuba in December 1992 to  pick up
his family, but they were welcomed upon their return.

The U.S. Coast Guard also has evidence that boats from Florida are  traveling to
Cuba to smuggle Cubans across the Florida Straits. Last month,  the Coast Guard
formally asked the Border Patrol to investigate a case in  which eight Cubans
were found in a boat with three Cuban-Americans close to  the Cuban coastline.

Marrying foreigners

There are still other, safer ways of leaving Cuba. Marriage to foreigners  has
been a popular method for years, but it has now turned into a business  venture
for some Cubans and enterprising foreigners. Mexicans and other Latin  Americans
fly to Havana as tourists and present themselves as prospective  spouses.

The Cuban government's International Law Firm, in the Havana neighborhood  of
Miramar, charges about $ 1,000 for the wedding (payable only in U.S.  dollars)
and all related documents. A package deal for $ 6,000, arranged  clandestinely
in Cuba, includes the wedding, air fare to a Latin American  country and travel
to Miami, via the U.S.-Mexico border.

Yet another circuitous, illegal route is through the Dominican Republic.
Smugglers there obtain Dominican permits for Cubans to fly to Santo Domingo,
where they provide them with false passports in order to get them into a plane
to Miami, according to Cubans in Miami who have paid for their family members
to be smuggled in this way. In the plane or in Miami International Airport,  the
Cubans destroy their false papers, and once safely on U.S. soil, ask for
political asylum.

Tourism industry

Well-educated Cubans who do not obtain exit visas, rafts, foreign spouses  or
other means to leave can escape the difficulties of daily life through  another
government-sanctioned pressure valve: retraining for jobs in the  country's
tourism industry. Working with foreigners, Cubans can earn dollar  tips and
spend them at special stores to buy rare goods like milk or meat.

A former Cuban air force pilot and veteran of the war in Angola said he is  now
earning more money "flying a taxi." A National Symphony violinist  fiddled for
tourists during the Pan-American games two years ago at Havana's  Divina Pastora
restaurant. A former dean at the University of Havana is now  the night manager
at a downtown hotel. As part of a government retraining  program he did stints
in various hotel jobs and was spotted by his former  students as a bellhop,
hefting suitcases outside the Havana Libre hotel.

"There are people who give up their (university) studies in the fourth  year
because they are offered a tourism career," said a disgruntled but
pro-government Cuban. "That means no passion for the job but rather passion  for
money." Since tourism workers can buy in special stores and others  cannot,
"this sets up a clear inequality in a country where we have always  been talking
about equality."

Although dollar tips are keeping many families better fed than their  neighbors,
Cubans call the new system "tourism apartheid." The best food is  reserved for
tourists, and Cubans are often kept out of hotel lobbies by  scrupulous guards
who explain to hotel guests that they are being protected  from "the wrong kind
of Cubans." But young prostitutes, who were common  before the 1959 revolution
and virtually unknown during its first 30 years,  are now often allowed to enter
hotels with their laughing, aging foreign  customers.

LOAD-DATE: May 25, 1993

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: SERIES

                            Times Publishing Company


                              183 of 187 DOCUMENTS

                         St. Petersburg Times (Florida)

                       June 7, 1992, Sunday, City Edition

IMMOKALEE:No room for the new poor

BYLINE: RICK BRAGG

SECTION: NATIONAL; Pg. 1A

LENGTH: 2539 words

DATELINE: IMMOKALEE



Rosario Gallo staggers from whorehouse to flophouse with his pants and dignity
undone, dirt from a day's labor covering his shirt.  His Mayan ancestors built
temples to the sky, but Gallo works on his knees.

    He has toiled so long in the soil of Immokalee he believes he might die in
it, hands wrapped around the last of 1-million watermelons.  He tells a joke
about it. In the joke, the crew boss orders his dead body to get back to work.

    "But I am dead," his spirit would say.

    "You cannot die," the boss says.

    "Why?" his spirit asks.

    "Because God is too busy with the living," the boss answers.

    "Not in Immokalee," Gallo's spirit says. "God don't know where that is."

    It is an old joke here. Gallo laughs so hard that his belly shakes and his
beer spills on the floor of the flophouse, where $ 5 buys a narrow bed for the
night. Amid rows of strangers, the 43-year-old undocumented Mexican migrant
worker lies down to wait for one more dawn.

     Immokalee is on the edge of the Everglades, a 40-minute drive from Naples,
far enough that you can't see the concrete creeping in.  Since the 1960s, this
town of 15,000 residents and uncounted thousands of migrant workers has been a
dateline for some of the most shameful abuses in American labor.

    Now, as the economy slides, the last stop in the employment chain has never
been more busy.

    They are Mexicans, Salvadorans, Guatemalans, Haitians, poor blacks, even a
few white men so long without work they are willing to stand in line for the
wretched pay.

    Human rights activists have forced better housing and health care, but many
of the workers live as always. Life is a blur of poverty, alcoholism, AIDS, TB,
deportation, prostitution and prayer.

    These workers are essential to the national economy. Rosario Gallo, cheap
labor, is the reason a watermelon does not cost $ 20 at Publix.

    In the morning, he will walk to the parking lot where men and women mill
about like cattle, hoping to be chosen for picking crews.

    If Gallo is lucky, a crew boss will seat him on a bus and take him to the
fields, where he will wade through puddles laced with pesticide, kneel down a
thousand back-breaking times, then leave with his fingers sore and his knees
aching.

    When he gets home he will have a beer and perhaps a whore, and if any of the
young men insult him, he will cut them. At $ 1 per beer and $ 10 per whore, he
will spend all the money he makes that day and go to sleep thinking of the wife
and three girls he left in Mexico the night he waded the Rio Grande in . . .

    He can't remember.

    Tomorrow he will mail them money, he promises himself, if he has any.

    The air is thicker now, and mosquitoes are coming out to feed, the start of
a new rainy season. The harvest in Immokalee will go on a few more days. The
people watch the sky. People who work outside are students of the sky.

    The first dark clouds will blow in any day, and many of these people will
leave. The workers have sayings for it, in different languages and different
ways. The Haitians, who have more than a passing acquaintance with suffering,
say it best:

    The harvest of pain is never over until the sky begins to cry.
 The word of a liar


   The Japanese pickup had the grime from 15 states on it when it pulled into
Immokalee. The free fall for factory workers Thomas Green and W.A. Snider
started with a pink slip in New Jersey, and they just kept coming down, looking
for a job, any job. There was nothing for them on the Eastern Seaboard, nothing
in the Deep South.

    "God damn George Bush," said Snider, 35. "What if I had kids?  God damn
him."

    They were sharing a beer in Orlando when someone mentioned Immokalee, so
they drove all night. They heard they could find work picking cucumbers for $
140 a week. Snider said it is work beneath a blue collar white man, but he'll
take it.

    "I don't give a damn," he says. "There ain't nothing else."

    There isn't even that; they came too late. The crew bosses needed only a few
workers to pick the last watermelons. So they aimed the pickup for Miami and
said they'll look until they run out of gas, park it, and hang out a sign:

    WILL WORK FOR FOOD.

    There is no room for new poor in Immokalee.

    Corporations own most of the farms here, but the crew bosses run the fields.
They decide who gets to work and who does not. Most crew bosses are Mexicans.
They wear cowboy hats and boots, and ride in big four-wheel-drives. Migrants
crowd around, waving, pointing to their chests, smiling.

    The buses are mostly ragged, rusting hulks, and the workers whisper about
which ones have brakes. In the past year, seven workers died in accidents
involving bald tires and worn brakes, said Mark Finnegan, a lawyer with Florida
Rural Legal Services here.

    The crew bosses never ride a bus.

    Getting on a bus doesn't mean they will get paid. Sometimes a crew boss
takes too many, and tells the excess workers to go sleep on the bus for 10, 12
hours, said Francisco Ordonez, a Guatemalan.  Stranded out here, in the vast
fields, they must either wait or walk home.

    "Sometimes they let you work all day .  they don't care if you have a green
card," said Juan Valdez, a Mexican American who has his green card. "But at the
end of the day, they say: "If you don't have a green card we don't pay you.' '

    Some crew bosses pay what they owe and treat workers decently, some treat
the people like animals. It is easy to spot them. Their  buses are the last to
fill.

    But all the buses fill, sooner or later. The promise of a paycheck is
enough, so they take the word of a liar one more time.

    Henry Gomez's bus is clean and freshly painted, a carrier for David C. Brown
Farms. It is one of the first to fill. "We treat 'em right, we pay 'em regular,"
he says. He seems immensely proud.

    A migrant with work papers makes about $ 135 a week, but undocumented ones
make only $ 90. The crew bosses dock them for being illegals.

    The growers, in agreement, designed the Immokalee Agricultural Employers'
Identification Card, which they sell to workers for $ 7.  They've sold 56,000
cards. "And collected $ 420,000 off people who make $ 135 a week," said
Finnegan, the rural legal services lawyer.

    The crew bosses have extra cards, and sell them for $ 10 and $ 20 a day,
leaving workers with just a few dollars.

    A car hit Ordonez last year when he lurched across Interstate 95 near West
Palm Beach, drunk. He said Jesus healed him, but left him with a limp. The
bosses do not pick cripples. He walks to the door of a pickup to plead.

    The boss waves him away, but promises: manana.

    Ordonez says gracias, and bows.
 Watching a mugging
    Immokalee is a Seminole word. It means:

    My home.

    Ten men squeeze into a one-bedroom mobile home without plumbing or
electricity. They pay $ 50 a week, each. Three sleep on blankets on the floor.
One said he stuffs cotton in his ears before he goes to sleep, in case a bug
should crawl in.

    At the Immokalee HRS clinic, a woman brings in a child screaming from ant
bites. The ants covered her in her bed.

    "It looked like measles or chicken pox," said Otis Dykes, the nurse who
heads the HRS clinic here. "It was bites."

    Three families pay $ 150 a week, each, to share a rundown mobile home with
no utilities a tin shell to sweat in. A one-bedroom  shack goes for $ 185 a
week.

    "Behind every basket of tomatoes you buy," Dykes said, "a human being has
suffered."

    Not everyone lives this way. The luckier have decent homes in villages built
especially for them, thanks to screaming from human rights advocates. But only a
small number get a decent home. In the season, fall, winter and spring, people
live in cars and open fields.

    Al Curry, president of ABC Farms, said the growers would like to provide
housing, but the press and lawyers make it a liability. If he provides homes and
migrants allow them to become filthy, the next day a photographer snaps a photo
and he is blamed for providing sub-standard housing.

    "It's a black eye," he says. "The housing industry would actually be very
profitable for us . . . but it's like watching a mugging."

    They cannot afford to get involved.
 Otis and the spirits


   The spirits from a dozen cultures swirl over Immokalee, waiting to be called
down.

    In a parking lot beside State Road 29, a Mexican bruja, a sorceress, casts a
$ 2 spell from the back seat of a rusty black 1968 Cadillac. A crew boss did not
pay what he promised a man, so the worker wants him to be sick.

    For a dollar more, Luisa Marie would toss her bone chips and cause him to
have ugly children. She also can cure just about anything, headaches, fever, TB.


    "A bruja can make money here," she says. "Bad people . . . sad people."

    In a soon-to-be-abandoned house, a Haitian boccor, a voodoo priest of dark
magic, waits for one last customer. The boccor, a tall, thin, fearsome man with
the toes cut out of his boots, said a woman wants him to turn another woman into
a goat, for stealing her man.

    He snorts at that silliness. But he says he can slip into the woman's
dreams.

    Otis Dykes, registered nurse and clinic administrator, is locked in mortal
combat with the spirits of Immokalee for the ailing bodies of its poor.

    Because they rely on their witch doctors to make them well, they are
spreading TB, AIDS and other diseases. So Dykes goes to their healers for help.

    "We strike a bargain," he said. "I say, "You get 'em first, then you send
'em to me. And you can even tell 'em you cured 'em.' "

    Dykes is battling not only 20th century disease but timeless attitudes,
walking the streets of Immokalee to find people who wouldn't come to his clinic
even if they were dying.

    Fresh from rain forests, endless slums and isolated villages, they avoid
anything official. Some believe HRS and INS are the same thing, and fear being
sent home to the killing and poverty they fled.

    Immokalee has 110 active cases of tuberculosis, compared with 272 cases in
Miami. Miami has 2-million people, Immokalee has 50,000 at the height of the
season.

    Other diseases that inoculation stamped out elsewhere years ago visit Dykes'
clinic every day. Children are blinded and scarred because they don't get
treatment for measles, scarlet fever and chicken pox. When Dykes does treat
them, mothers sometimes just pick them up and disappear, to follow the crops. He
hopes, somewhere, they get treatment.

    Some of the most destructive diseases here are contracted through loneliness
and boredom. You catch them in the bottom of a bottle, or between the sheets of
a bed where you pay your money but you don't sleep.

    "I don't drink any more or go with the bad women," said Francisco Ordonez.
"I saw the light."

    The nights in Immokalee are long for Francisco Ordonez.
 Saturday night


   Outside the no-name bar, a man shouts curses into the dark and flicks open a
knife. He lurches to his left and right like Zorro, until he realizes there is
nobody there to fight. He sits down and starts to cry.

    Alcoholism is more than prevalent, health care people say, it consumes
people. Drinking themselves into darkness is blissful escape from Immokalee.

    Lt. Gene Cook of the Collier County Sheriff's Department first came here in
1967. He believes that on any weekend night, 85 percent of the people on
Immokalee's streets are drunk or high.

    "At night you got two choices," said Dykes. "You can either sit and watch
bugs fly around lights, or you can sit and drink and watch bugs fly around
lights."

    The crack cocaine pushers here have a tried-and-true system, Dykes said.
They hook a worker on crack, and soon his wife and daughters are selling
themselves to feed his habit.

    Every season there are fewer migrant families working the fields, and more
young men. Whores are bused in from Miami to meet demand. The ones who live here
are a scraggly bunch, pitiful, pot-bellied women, some trying to dress in big
city whore clothes, working barefoot, one in her fuzzy house shoes.

    This is not hotel hooking, this is bring the john home with you, get the $ 5
or $ 10 or whatever he can afford, and keep an eye peeled for the ones who like
to hit. A lot of them like to hit, one woman said, because the work makes them
crazy.  R    Not too many migrants can afford a hotel, but one recent night, six
men pooled their money for two prostitutes and one hotel room.

    Lt. Cook said deputies tend to look the other way. Immokalee is a frontier
town, in geography and attitude, a lot like the Old West.  The whores help ease
the tension.

    One Saturday night, several men ask for a woman named Cowboy because of her
boots but are told she is in jail. Or maybe the hospital. Or maybe she left.

    "I'll leave here," one young woman says. "As soon as I get $ 500 saved, I'm
gone." She has been here almost a year. She has a little more than $ 400 to go.

    It is a quiet Saturday night. No one is shooting. Lt. Cook is asked if he
has ever been shot at, but he doesn't rightly know.

    "All the guns going off . . . it's hard to tell."
 ... and Sunday morning


 In a town with so many different kinds of people, with so much suffering, there
is almost no racial violence. The races live apart and mix infrequently.    "The
problem here is not racism," said Dykes.  "They have a common problem."

    Poverty.

    There seem to be no atheists in Immokalee. Our Lady of Guadalupe Church has
services in Spanish, English and Creole.  First come the Hispanics, in pickups
and bolo ties; then the Crackers in old Pontiacs and permanent-press; then the
Haitians, who come on foot, in crumpled black suits, women in hats big as truck
tires.

    In Room 105 of the Immokalee Inn, someone has marked the index to Isaiah, 10
and 11, in the Gideon Bible.

    ". . .And it shall come to pass in that day that his burden shall be taken
away from off thy shoulder, and his yoke from off thy neck, and the yoke shall
be destroyed because of the anointing."

    They know about the yoke in Immokalee.

    Some of them do throw it off. Henry Gomez, who owns a bus with his name
printed on the side, calls it his Eden. Felton Woulard's daddy came here from
Georgia, worked his way up to crew boss, and found dignity.

    The others wait. At least one them believes it is already too late.

    A mile from downtown, a sign tacked to a pole on State Road 29 warns of an
end to all this sin and misery. It says:

    JESUS IS COMING

    IMMEDIATELY

    If he knows the way.

LOAD-DATE: November 3, 1992

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: COLOR PHOTO, RICARDO FERRO, (7); COLOR MAP; Haitian Marie Yolande;
Migrant workers in Immokalee wait for crew bosses to begin picking workers to
harvest watermelons; Santo's flophouse is mostly empty at midday as workers toil
in the fields; Saturday night: A no-name bar in Immokalee; Guatemalan Francisco
Ordonez eats a breakfast of orange Jello; HRS nurse and administrator Otis
Dykes; Haitians sit under shade trees outside, waiting for mass that will be
conducted in Creole.; Locates Immokalee near Alligator Alley in South Florida

                            Times Publishing Company


                              184 of 187 DOCUMENTS

                         St. Petersburg Times (Florida)

                    September 4, 1992, Friday, City Edition

Migrants: no shelter from storm

SECTION: EDITORIAL; EDITORIALS; Pg. 14A

LENGTH: 406 words



Ill-served and often invisible under normal circumstances, South Florida's
migrant workers have been last in line for hurricane relief. At the Everglades
Labor Camp near Florida City, reporter Catherine S. Manegold found that most  of
the 4,000 residents had begged rides to other work sites or were hiding in  the
swamp, fearful of immigration authorities who, the migrants say, had  visited
the area.

   The 200 adults and children who remained were trying to eat spoiled  food
that had been left at the site but not distributed. At least nine people
suffered food poisoning before the pile of food and supplies was burned to  help
contain the growing health hazard, Manegold reported in an article in the  New
York Times.

  "I keep hearing about 7,000 troops," a captain with the Apollo Beach  Rescue
Squad told Manegold. "But I only see 10, and this has to be one of the
worst-hit areas. I think it's disgraceful."

  "Because it's so remote, because it's known as rough . . . nobody  wanted to
come in here and set up a 24-hour medical service. Instead they just  passed
through," an official from Patrick Air Force Base told Manegold. The  Air Force
took charge at the camp Sunday, and conditions have since improved.

Dr. Jose Luis Elias of the East Coast Migrant Health Project found  dehydration
and other problems when he reached the camp Sunday. Relief workers  agreed that
much suffering could have been avoided if the migrants had been  granted equal
treatment.

  The slow response at this labor camp is simply another page in the
disgraceful history of state and federal relations with migrant workers.  Tucked
away in remote locations with minimal accommodations and no  transportation,
those who qualify for legal protections and social services  can't reach out for
help. Most of those who abandoned the Everglades for jobs  in other farming
states were forced to hitchhike.

  Illegal workers provide cheap field labor with no obligations attached.  All
it takes is an appearance by immigration authorities to make them - and  their
needs - disappear.

  Suffering is widespread among South Florida's poor and middle-class  hurricane
survivors, but people from Florida City were at least eating hot  meals at a
makeshift military kitchen in Homestead by Friday. At the  Everglades camp, only
four miles from Florida City, food was left to rot in  the rain.

LOAD-DATE: October 13, 1992

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: EDITORIAL

                            Times Publishing Company


                              185 of 187 DOCUMENTS

                         St. Petersburg Times (Florida)

                      June 11, 1990, Monday, City Edition

Krome protest

SECTION: TAMPA BAY AND STATE; BRIEFLY; Pg. 4B

LENGTH: 320 words

DATELINE: JACKSONVILLE; TAMPA



About 300 Haitians and their supporters massed Sunday outside the Krome Avenue
Detention Center near Miami. The protesters, objecting to the denial of all but
a few political asylum claims, said the immigration processing center would be
the target of monthly demonstrations.
 Effort to raise tugboat postponed
 JACKSONVILLE Plans to raise a tugboat that sank in the St.  Johns River were
postponed over the weekend, but only after workers made sure no more diesel fuel
was leaking from the 800-ton vessel, officials said. The Captain Bill, which
spilled about 1,000 gallons of diesel fuel when it sank Friday in Jacksonville,
was to be raised Sunday. But Coast Guard officials and representatives of
Crowley Towing and Transportation Co., which contracted the 117-foot tug, said
there was no reason to rush because the disabled tug is mired outside the main
shipping channel and is no longer leaking fuel. The Captain Bill had been en
route to Guantanamo Bay, Cuba, taking a 400-foot barge loaded with sand to be
used in construction, when a device used to secure the barge to the tug broke.
The tug was heading back to the Crowley docks when it sank about 4 a.m. Friday.
 3 additions planned for endangered list
 TAMPA A fish that can grow to 10 feet and 500 pounds, a hamster-like rodent and
a poisonous pink flower will be Florida's newest additions to the federal
government's list of endangered species. But the recognition of their plight
doesn't mean help or money is on the way for the Gulf sturgeon, salt marsh vole
or gentian pinkroot. The three Florida species won't officially be put on the
list until spring, but no opposition to the additions is expected, the Tampa
Tribune reported Sunday. Of the three species, only the Gulf sturgeon is being
studied to find out what is needed to bring it back from the verge of
extinction.


LOAD-DATE: November 13, 1992

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DISTRIBUTION: TAMPA BAY AND STATE

GRAPHIC: BLACK AND WHITE PHOTO, Associated Press; Haitians and their supporters
mass outside the Krome Avenue Detention Center near Miami to protest

TYPE: DIGEST

                            Times Publishing Company


                              186 of 187 DOCUMENTS

                         St. Petersburg Times (Florida)

                   February 5, 1992, Wednesday, City Edition

Refugees clash; 21 die in fire

SOURCE: Compiled from Wire Reports

SECTION: NATIONAL; Pg. 8A

LENGTH: 476 words

DATELINE: SHEK KONG, Hong Kong



Twenty-one Vietnamese boat people including five children were burned alive in a
vicious battle between rival groups in a Hong Kong detention camp, officials
said Tuesday.

    The fighting was the worst in the detention camps since tens of thousands of
Vietnamese began flooding the shores of this British colony 12 years ago in
hopes of emigrating to the United States and other countries.

    Tension has risen in the camps groups of huts surrounded by wire fences and
watchtowers housing some 58,750 boat people since the Hong Kong government
resumed forced repatriations in November.

    Conflict has flared periodically between those who have given up hope and
agreed to go home and those who still dream of a life in the West. North and
south Vietnamese also have ethnic divisions as well as political differences
stemming from the long civil war won by the Communist north.

    Hong Kong's Secretary for Security Alistair Asprey said at a news conference
the latest fighting broke out over hot water rations in one sector of the camp.
The fighting escalated when hundreds of refugees in a neighboring sector ripped
down a 17-foot fence and joined the brawl with iron bars, sticks and stones.

    The deaths occurred when one group believed to be south Vietnamese
surrounded and set fire to a corrugated tin hut containing northern refugees who
had agreed to return to Vietnam and were awaiting transportation home.

    "The crowd started pushing burning blankets through the roof and windows.
The hut had been locked from the inside," Asprey said. "It was a deliberate
attack on a group of people and a  deliberate case of arson."

    Rioters blocked access to the compound as hundreds of police tried to quell
the violence and put out the fire. After repeatedly firing tear-gas, riot police
finally restored order, more than four hours after the fighting started.

    By that time 21 refugees had died in the blaze. Apart from the dead, largely
people from northern Vietnam, 128 men, women and children were injured.

    Mai, a 12-year-old girl who witnessed the burning of the hut and was moved
to another center Tuesday, said: "I have three friends who were there and I
don't know what happened to them."

    Asprey vowed to track down the arsonists.

    He said the hot water dispute was symptomatic of a wider problem people
trapped for years without any hope of fulfilling their dream of emigrating to
the United States.

    Only Vietnamese deemed to be genuine political refugees can settle in the
West. The rest are automatically assumed to have fled Vietnam because of the
country's deep poverty. Only 4,300 boat people in Hong Kong have been classified
as refugees.
 Information from the Associated Press, Reuters was used in this report.

LOAD-DATE: November 4, 1992

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                            Times Publishing Company


                              187 of 187 DOCUMENTS

                         St. Petersburg Times (Florida)

                      May 31, 1992, Sunday, State Edition

Fire damages detention center

SECTION: TAMPA BAY AND STATE; STATE DIGEST; Pg. 7B

LENGTH: 253 words

DATELINE: MIAMI; FORT MYERS



Some detainees at the federal immigration detention center in suburban Miami had
to be evacuated Saturday after a fire raged through one of the dormitories,
officials said. Metro-Dade Fire officials said at least 70 firefighters were
battling the blaze, reported about 2:15 p.m., at the Krome Avenue Detention
Center. None of the 456 detainees of about 35 nationalities was injured, but two
firefighters were injured, said fire spokeswoman Rhonda Sabilia.  Their
conditions weren't immediately available. "Apparently it started in a food
storage area in a very, very large dormitory," said Sabilia. "They're having a
very hard time. Some of the mattresses are still on fire right now." She said it
was too soon to determine if arson caused the blaze. Richard Smith, Miami
district director for the immigration service, said he didn't immediately know
how much damage had been done.
 Man drowns in motel pool
 FORT MYERS A Fort Lauderdale man drowned Saturday at a Fort Myers motel while
attempting to teach his 15-year-old daughter how to swim, police said. Calvin
Roker Jr., 31, and his daughter, Kimberly Denise Wright, were found at the
bottom of the pool at the Floridian Motel just after 7 p.m., said Angela Savko,
a spokeswoman for the Fort Myers Police Department. They apparently had been
there between five to 20 minutes, Savko said.  Roker was pronounced dead at Lee
Memorial Hospital. Miss Wright was breathing on her own, but was listed in
critical condition at the hospital, Savko said.

LOAD-DATE: November 3, 1992

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DISTRIBUTION: TAMPA BAY AND STATE

                            Times Publishing Company
