
                               1 of 302 DOCUMENTS

                         St. Petersburg Times (Florida)

                April 7, 2004 Wednesday 0 South Pinellas Edition

Gov. Bush backs bill to license illegals

BYLINE: STEVE BOUSQUET; JONI JAMES; SAUNDRA AMRHEIN DL: TALLAHASSEE

SECTION: NATIONAL; Pg. 1A

LENGTH: 767 words


One of Arnold Schwarzenegger's first decisions as California governor was to
repeal a state law allowing nearly 2-million illegal immigrants to get drivers'
licenses.

The move angered the state's large immigrant population, but Schwarzenegger said
he would only support a law with safeguards against terrorism. Critics had
designed posters showing Osama bin Laden's likeness on a license.

Now, Gov. Jeb Bush says he supports a bill in the Legislature to allow illegal
immigrants and foreign nationals in Florida to drive legally - subject to
safeguards that include criminal background checks.

Bush says hundreds of thousands of illegal immigrants commute daily to jobs all
over the state, many lacking licenses and insurance.

"We shouldn't allow them to come into the country to begin with, but once
they're here, what do you do?" Bush asked. "Do you basically say that they're
lepers to society? That they don't exist? A policy that ignores them is a policy
of denial."

The issue is particularly sensitive in Florida, and not only because of the
state's large immigrant population. Many of the 9/11 hijackers legally obtained
Florida licenses, and used them to rent cars and hotel rooms and move around
Florida without suspicion.

The Florida plan would require immigrants to be fingerprinted and provide a
second form of identification, such as an employee ID card. They also would have
to prove they own or lease a car and swear they are not convicted felons. A
license would be valid for two years, legal only in Florida. Its color would be
different from other licenses.

Bush's support for driving privileges for illegal immigrants was welcome news to
Aurora Gomez, who was stopped last year for driving with a broken taillight. The
mother of three from Dade City nearly faced jail time and certain deportation to
Mexico for driving without a license. But a judge allowed her to enter a
diversion program where she worked 40 hours in a local park. She said she has
not driven since November.

"Wherever I've wanted to go, (friends) have had to take me," Gomez said Tuesday.
She also pays for taxis.

Gomez supports her children by cooking for other immigrant workers, which means
she does a lot of grocery shopping. The closest supermarket is two miles away.

After the Sept. 11 attacks, Florida strictly enforced a 1999 law that required
proof of citizenship or "legal presence" in the United States as a condition of
getting or renewing a driver's license.

As a result, thousands of illegal immigrants have been driving unlawfully.

"They come to my office," said Rep. Gus Barreiro, R-Miami Beach. "They say
they've had their driver's license confiscated because they couldn't show
documentation they were a legal resident. They're in limbo."

Barreiro chairs the House Public Safety & Crime Prevention Committee, which
plans to consider the legislation as early as next week.

Barreiro said he met two months ago with consulate representatives of six Latin
American countries and the head of the state driver's license agency to seek a
solution.

The Senate version (SB 1360), sponsored by Sen. Rudy Garcia, R-Hialeah, passed
its first committee last week 13-1. Garcia said he has been lobbied by many in
the business community who deal with Latin America to find a way to let illegal
immigrants drive legally.

He says it makes sense to license the drivers, to better track their movements.

"Overall, I think this is a better measure for security," Garcia said. "It's a
stronger security measure to find out where these people are, where their bank
accounts are and asking whether they are a risk to Floridians."

The only senator who voted against the bill, Sen. Mike Haridopolos, R-Melbourne,
said he opposes any efforts to make life easier for illegal immigrants.

"We'd be condoning illegal behavior," Haridopolos said. "I want to make sure
people who play by the rules, and come to this country legally, are respected -
and those who are coming illegally are held accountable."

Three months ago, President Bush, the governor's brother, proposed
immigration-law changes to allow Mexicans to enter the United States legally if
they have jobs waiting for them.

Gov. Bush said calling the Florida plan too lenient on illegal immigrants is off
base.

"Florida will have the highest standards for illegal immigrants to be able to
get a driver's license," Bush said Monday. "It will require enough information
that we're comfortable that the people getting those driver's licenses won't be
terrorists."

- Information from the Associated Press was used in this report.

LOAD-DATE: April 7, 2004

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                    Copyright 2004 Times Publishing Company


                               2 of 302 DOCUMENTS

                         St. Petersburg Times (Florida)

                            October 26, 2003 Sunday

It didn't start with Wal-Mart

BYLINE: BILL MAXWELL

SECTION: PERSPECTIVE; Pg. 7D

LENGTH: 756 words


Wal-Mart is finally getting some of the comeuppance it earned a long time ago.
(For the record, I do not shop at Wal-Mart on principle: The conglomerate is
destroying mom-and-pop America.)

Federal immigration officials arrested between 250 and 300 illegal workers on
Thursday in 60 Wal-Mart stores in 21 states. Officials also raided the chain's
headquarters in Arkansas, where boxes of documents and tape recordings were
hauled away as part of a wide criminal investigation said to involve violations
of immigration laws that Wal-Mart executives had personal knowledge of.

Those arrested were mostly from Eastern Europe, and they worked in crews that
clean Wal-Mart stores. Others were from Central America and Asia. One official
said the arrests were significant and were "aimed at companies that are
employing illegal workers and increasing their profit margins by violating our
immigration laws."

Because profit margin is an end unto itself, many American companies use
independent contractors. In the case of Wal-Mart, the system works like this:
The giant retailer uses about 100 contractors to clean about 1,000 of its U.S.
stores. Because the work is hard, nasty and pays next to nothing, contractors
have a hard time hiring American-born workers. Even legal immigrants stay away.
The contractors, therefore, hire undocumented workers who are happy to find any
kind of work, who tend to keep their mouths shut.

The Mexican American Legal Defense Fund, which brought other labor-related
action against Wal-Mart several years ago, reports that the company pays some
workers less than the $5.15-an-hour minimum wage and that many never have
received overtime after working 55-hour weeks. Some workers were paid as little
as $2 a day, and none received health insurance. Vacation was unheard of.

In all their naivete, or disingenuousness, immigration experts told the New York
Times that the arrests of so many immigrants at Wal-Marts nationwide indicate
that these laborers have come to play a significant role in America's economy.

Well, of course.

Such workers have played a significant role in the U.S. economy for generations.
Many businesses, in fact, depend almost exclusively on undocumented workers to
keep their profits soaring.

Until now, the third-party contractor system has cushioned employers from legal
blame when illegal workers are rounded up. As is the case with Wal-Mart,
employers pretend they do not know their contractors are hiring undocumented
help.

When pushed for a response about the company's use of illegals, Wal-Mart
spokeswoman Mona Williams said: "No, we did not know. Our understanding was that
these third-party agencies had only legal workers."

Williams' response is mystifying in light of the fact that immigration agents
raided several Wal-Mart stores in 1998 and 2001 for hiring undocumented labor.
Then, about 100 immigrants were arrested. Authorities say they have direct
evidence that Wal-Mart executives knew full well that their contractors were
breaking the law.

Retailers such as Wal-Mart represent only one industry that relies on the
contractor system. By far, agriculture is the worst abuser. Although Florida, my
home state, was not a target of the Wal-Mart crackdown on Thursday, it would be
at the top of the list if federal agents raided the state's farms and groves and
corporate headquarters.

Almost all of Florida's vegetable and citrus growers rely on subcontractors,
often called crew chiefs, to hire and transport farm workers. Some contractors
provide substandard, expensive housing for the workers. As it does with
Wal-Mart, this system absolves growers of responsibility for the workers'
welfare.

Needless to say, farm workers are the lowest of the low in American labor. A
handful of other writers and I have been trying for decades to bring the
agricultural contractor problem to the attention of lawmakers. Because too many
elected officials and other movers and shakers are in bed with agribusiness,
legislation benefiting farm workers remains illusory.

In Florida, some of our most powerful elected officials have been farmers or
hailed from farming families. I know because I have gone head-to-head with a few
of them.

If federal immigration officials have a mind to, they should raid the fields and
groves of the Sunshine State. Wal-Mart's 250-300 arrests will pale in comparison
to the numbers here. I will bet a week's salary that the arrests would be in the
thousands.

Here is my plea to federal immigration agents: Come on down.

LOAD-DATE: October 27, 2003

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: COLUMN

                    Copyright 2003 Times Publishing Company


                               3 of 302 DOCUMENTS

                         St. Petersburg Times (Florida)

                            January 8, 2004 Thursday

WORK, LEGALLY;
 Mexicans welcome Bush plan

BYLINE: ADRIENNE P. SAMUELS

SECTION: CLEARWATER TIMES; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 438 words

DATELINE: CLEARWATER


The city's Mexican population is abuzz with the news of President Bush's
proposal to change immigration law for thousands of undocumented workers seeking
legal work status.

The plan, announced Tuesday, could have major ramifications for the 20,000 or so
Mexicans living in Clearwater and for their relatives back in Mexico.

Although Congress has yet to vote on it, the plan already is rallying political
favor for Bush.

"Reagan gave us amnesty in 1986 and he was a good president," Jose Lopez, 57,
said during a break from cooking at his restaurant on Drew Street.

"I believe this is a good opportunity for Mr. Bush to prove that what he's
telling is true," he said. "He has my vote for sure."

According to the Bush administration, the "temporary workers program" could
allow about 8-million illegal immigrants already in the United States to apply
for a three-year, renewable work permit.

A worker could bring his or her family along. The caveat is, the jobs must be
unwanted by U.S. citizens.

In Clearwater, jobs that would fall into that category include dishwashing at
restaurants, cleaning rooms at hotels and motels, and working at construction
sites.

At one restaurant, all the cooks had their eyes glued to an afternoon newscast
on Spanish television about Bush's statements.

"It's a good idea because I need the papers," said Lenia Sanchez, 26, from
Mexico City. "I didn't have a job in Mexico and the pay here is good. That's why
I'm here."

Old-timers who came over during the mid 1980s amnesty period wish the government
had proposed this 10 years ago.

If so, there wouldn't be so many broken families in Mexico, some said.

"It's hard for a father and mother to be separated," said Ruben Tepetate, who
owns Ixmiquilpan Tequila Latin Store and had to work for years to bring his wife
and children across the border.

Odilawn Mesquite, vice president of the local Mexican Council, shares Tepetate's
thoughts.

"We're neighbors," said Mesquite, who owns a lawn care service. "We're supposed
to work together. We do a lot of labor, a lot of work for this country."

The issue is a Catch-22, said Robin Gomez, who is Clearwater's city auditor and
is originally from Mexico.

Mexicans take jobs that historically are unwanted by others.

Gomez would "prefer to see Mexico improve their economy. That's the ideal
situation so people do not have to risk their lives to come to the U.S."

- Adrienne Samuels can be reached at 445-4157 or samuels@sptimes.com.

Ruben Tepetate, who owns Ixmiquilpan Tequila Latin Store, says the plan is
overdue. He worked for years to bring his family across the border.

LOAD-DATE: January 8, 2004

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DISTRIBUTION: CLEARWATER TIMES; NORTH PINELLAS TIMES; LARGO TIMES

GRAPHIC: PHOTO, SCOTT KEELER; Ruben Tepetate works in his Ixmiquilpan Tequila
Latin Store.

                    Copyright 2004 Times Publishing Company


                               4 of 302 DOCUMENTS

                         St. Petersburg Times (Florida)

               August 7, 2002 Wednesday 0 South Pinellas Edition

Immigration law cases doubled from '96 to '01

SOURCE: Compiled from Times Wires

SECTION: NATIONAL; Pg. 2A

LENGTH: 252 words

DATELINE: WASHINGTON


The number of people prosecuted in federal court for immigration offenses more
than doubled between 1996 and 2000, coinciding with a big increase in the number
of Border Patrol agents.

The number of prosecutions rose from 6,605 in 1996 to a record-high 15,613 in
2000, the Bureau of Justice Statistics reported Tuesday.

Almost two-thirds of the prosecutions occurred in five states: New York, Texas,
California, Arizona and Florida.

Dismissal sought of suit

over ABM Treaty

The Justice Department asked a federal court Tuesday to dismiss a lawsuit filed
by 31 House members challenging President Bush's authority to withdraw the
United States from the 1972 Anti-Ballistic Missile Treaty.

The United States officially left the treaty in June, six months after Bush
announced his intentions to do so. The plaintiffs are all Democrats, except for
one independent.

In a court document, the government said the Constitution grants the president
full control over the conduct of foreign affairs and most treaty matters.

Also . . .

LAFAYETTE CITIZENSHIP: The Marquis de Lafayette, who fought alongside George
Washington at Valley Forge and secured the aid of France during the
Revolutionary War, on Tuesday became the sixth person to be given honorary U.S.
citizenship. President Bush signed legislation calling him "forever a symbol of
freedom."

CRUSADER AXED: A Pentagon official has signed the final papers ordering the
termination of the $11-billion Crusader artillery gun program.

LOAD-DATE: August 7, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                    Copyright 2002 Times Publishing Company


                               5 of 302 DOCUMENTS

                         St. Petersburg Times (Florida)

               January 8, 2004 Thursday 0 South Pinellas Edition

Opening borders pleases industry, worries workers

BYLINE: SCOTT BARANCIK; SAUNDRA AMRHEIN

SECTION: NATIONAL; Pg. 1A

LENGTH: 745 words


Florida businesses embraced the plan President Bush offered Wednesday to relax
immigration laws, but the enthusiasm wasn't widely shared by immigrants or
U.S.-born workers.

Bush's plan would allow illegal immigrants to apply to work legally for up to
three years at a time. Those already in the country would be eligible, as would
workers abroad who lined up job offers.

At last count, in 2000, Florida was home to an estimated 337,000 illegal
immigrants, the fifth most in the United States. Foreign workers, legal and not,
are a critical part of the state's agriculture, tourism and restaurant
industries.

Bill Flynn, an immigration lawyer at Fowler White Boggs Banker in Tampa whose
clients include such employers, said the president's proposal would be an
enormous boon to Florida business. "We know there are jobs Americans won't
take," he said. "Drive by any fast-food enterprise, and you'll see the signs."

But such enthusiasm didn't extend far outside Florida's business community.

Some critics said the proposal would do little for U.S.-born workers, perhaps
even harm them.

Bruce Nissen, director of research at the Center for Labor Research and Studies
at Florida International University, said the Bush proposal would benefit "big
business" by driving down wages as more immigrants competed for jobs.

"They love the idea because it means cheap labor for them," he said of
employers.

Danny Johnson, a Verizon employee and business manager for Local 824 of the
International Brotherhood of Electrical Workers, agreed. "What could be the
effect for the real American people?" he said. "We've got 9-million people out
of jobs now."

At the same time, some immigrants argued Bush's plan offers them too little help
and hope.

Aurora Gomez, a 31-year-old illegal immigrant from Mexico who has worked in the
orange groves around Dade City for a decade, said she might be better off
staying "undocumented." Under the Bush proposal, she said, she would likely be
sent back to Mexico after three years, forced to decide whether to bring her
three U.S.-born children.

John Ovink, a Tampa lawyer who represents immigrants seeking legal status, said,
"If they are not going to give them an opportunity to earn lawful permanent
status, it's an empty statement. . . . If (workers) have jobs and pay taxes,
they should be able to become permanent residents."

In St. Petersburg, it takes a staff of more than 500 to keep the Renaissance
Vinoy Resort and Golf Club running. If not for immigrants, some of those jobs
might go unfilled.

A growing share of the workers who clean the hotel's 360 guest rooms are from
Bosnia. Openings for dishwashers, greenskeepers and physically demanding jobs
that pay relatively little can go begging for weeks or get mired in
immigration-law red tape.

Asked about Bush's plan, J. Marie Wallace, the hotel's human resources director,
said, "I think it's a good thing. I'm always in need of good employees." She has
23 job vacancies.

Immigrant workers also play a substantial role as laborers on construction
projects and in related businesses such as roof repair.

Joseph Narkiewicz, executive vice president of the Builder's Association of
Greater Tampa, said Bush's plan "may very well help to alleviate shortages of
labor the industry has been experiencing. Obviously, it would make it easier to
hire foreign-born workers."

Not all of the initial reaction ran along predictable lines.

The Bush proposal found some support among immigrants and their advocates in
Clearwater, home to 20,000 Mexican nationals.

City Auditor Robin Gomez, who serves as a liaison between Clearwater's growing
Mexican population and city government, said what's good for big business is
often good for native-born workers and immigrants, too.

"How many people here (Americans) are going to work at a manufacturing plant
that pays $8 an hour?" he said.

Lenia Sanchez, a 26-year-old cook from Mexico City, said he and his friends were
eager to get their "papers." "We're here because there's no jobs in Mexico and
the pay here is good."

Attitudes might change as Bush's proposal is refined by his administration and
reshaped by Congress. Flynn, a 25-year veteran of immigration law, said it could
be unrecognizable after lawmakers get their hands on it.

"I imagine we'll have some legislative adventures before this becomes law," he
said.

- Times staff writers Adrienne Samuels and Benita D. Newton contributed to this
report.

LOAD-DATE: January 8, 2004

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: PHOTO, SKIP O'ROURKE; PHOTO; Farm workers cut runners from strawberry
plants on Wetherington Farms near the eastern Hillsborough County community of
Sydney.; Harry Lieffers

                    Copyright 2004 Times Publishing Company


                               6 of 302 DOCUMENTS

                         St. Petersburg Times (Florida)

               February 21, 2001, Wednesday, 2 Late Tampa Edition

New rule gives illegal aliens false hopes

BYLINE: KATHRYN WEXLER

SECTION: TAMPA & STATE; Pg. 3B

LENGTH: 590 words

DATELINE: TAMPA



For a brief time, some illegals can stay in the country while seeking legal
status. But it's not an automatic green card.

No matter what immigration attorney Neil Lewis says to some of the excited
foreigners calling him these days, he can't make them understand that the United
States is not suddenly handing visas to all its illegal immigrants.

"They say, "No, no; I know that everyone who's here may pay $ 1,000 and get a
green card!' " said Lewis, a Tampa lawyer.

The hype - and its accompanying confusion - is sweeping immigrant communities
nationwide. It comes down to a provision in immigration law that is obscure to
the general public but known to millions of foreigners as 245(i).

Certain illegal immigrants can, for a brief time, petition for permanent
residency without leaving the United States. Until now, anyone living in the
United States illegally had to return home and plead to an American consulate
there.

The catch: They were barred from re-entering the United States for up to 10
years because they had been here illegally. That was enough to keep most people
lurking indefinitely on the dark side of the law.

Yet the United States is hardly flinging open its doors, immigration officials
emphasize. The change, which just reinstates a provision in effect from 1994 to
1998, does not relax standards for obtaining legal status.

Nor does it reduce the tedious paperwork required for an application. It still
takes a family member or employer to petition for a foreigner's permanent
residency, and the petition must be filed by April 30.

"This is in no way, shape or form, an amnesty," said Maria Elena Garcia, Florida
spokeswoman for the Immigration and Naturalization Service.

The INS estimates that up to 6-million people live in the United States
illegally. Only 100,000 to 150,000 will likely benefit from the reinstated
provision, said INS spokeswoman Elaine Komis. Even more could benefit from a
handful of other changes in immigration regulations that President Clinton
approved in his last days in office.

Florida has about 350,000 illegal immigrants, the fourth-highest number in the
country, according to 1996 estimates, the INS' latest figures. Clearly, say
local lawyers, the number of foreigners calling their offices for legal advice
and who can celebrate the changes are in the slim minority.

But that doesn't seem to be sinking in just yet, say immigrant officials, legal
advisers and charity workers. Desperation is driving misconceptions, say those
who work with immigrants. And immigrant advocates are worried that scam artists
will take advantage of the confusion and trade unsuspecting foreigners empty
promises of visas in exchange for hefty sums.

"People have been waiting for amnesty for so long, they want to believe it's
true," said Carlos Betancourt of Catholic Charities in Tampa.

To combat the confusion, Catholic Charities has passed out fliers explaining the
provision at churches that serve immigrant communities. Spanish-language radio
stations have devoted talk shows to the issue. Lawyers have advertised in print
and on Telemundo TV.

INS offices in Tampa, Miami and across the country have seen the numbers of
foreigners inquiring about their legal status shoot up. Hopeful immigrants are
also flocking to places like Lutheran Services on W Martin Luther King
Boulevard, which has always catered to legal immigrants.

Said Tampa attorney Mark Weiner, "People are going nuts."

- Kathryn Wexler can be reached at (813) 226-3383 or wexler@sptimes.com.


LOAD-DATE: February 22, 2001

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DISTRIBUTION: TAMPA & STATE; CITY & STATE; METRO & STATE

                    Copyright 2001 Times Publishing Company


                               7 of 302 DOCUMENTS

                         St. Petersburg Times (Florida)

              April 25, 2001, Wednesday, O South Pinellas Edition

Immigration deadline brings rush of cases

BYLINE: DAVID ADAMS

SECTION: NATIONAL; Pg. 1A

LENGTH: 1009 words

DATELINE: MIAMI



It's the biggest immigration rush in years.

Days before the midnight Monday deadline, thousands of illegal immigrants are
trying to take advantage of an obscure, widely misunderstood law passed during
the final days of the Clinton administration that allows illegal immigrants with
proven job skills to obtain permanent residency if they are sponsored by an
employer or a close family relative.

Lawyers are working overtime to cope with last-minute petitions all over the
country, and federal officials are gearing up for a long weekend.

Immigration and Naturalization Service offices in Tampa and Miami will be open
until midnight Monday to accommodate the expected last-minute applicants. The
U.S. Department of Labor, which has a say in employer-sponsored cases, will also
keep its Tallahassee offices open until midnight Monday to handle late filings.

"This provision is beginning to show the enormity of the underground population.
We are seeing people literally come out of the woodwork to investigate this
opportunity," said Michael Bander, senior partner at Bander, Fox-Isicoff and
Associates, a leading Miami immigration firm.

Florida has about 350,000 illegal immigrants, the fourth-highest number in the
country, according to INS figures. But lawyers say the Legal Immigration Family
Equity Act, as the law is known, applies only to a small number - barely 10
percent - of the estimated 5-million to 10-million foreigners living illegally
in the country.

Even so, Bander's firm has had to set up a legal "war room" to handle the extra
case load.

Charts on the walls plot the course of some 300 cases the firm is handling in
the last week before the law expires. Coffee mugs, staplers, hole punchers and
pens clutter a table where a half-dozen lawyers sort out cases.

"It's a big-time operation here," said war room chief Steve Murphy. "We're
helping a lot of people."

The firm has plane reservations to fly to Tallahassee on Monday to file the last
cases. They may send a car as well because all flights and hotels are booked.

It's been hectic since the law went into effect Dec. 21.

"Certainly the surge in applications is there," INS spokeswoman Maria Elena
Garcia said, referring to the Tampa Bay area. She said 1,100
adjustment-of-status applications had been requested from the Tampa office since
December.

"We are seeing longer lines at all our district offices," said Elaine Komis,
another INS spokeswoman. Calls to the INS' customer help line have leapt 30
percent, from 750,000 a month to more than 1-million.

"People are very interested in this piece of legislation," Komis said.

Lawyers and immigration officials say they battled early misunderstanding of the
law when rumors flew around that the government was offering a general amnesty
to anyone who paid $ 1,000.

But few illegal immigrants fulfill the law's criteria. Aliens with specialized
job skills must first find an employer willing to sponsor them. Many employers
are unwilling to take on the paperwork, often fearing the risk of coming under
suspicion for hiring illegal workers.

The position must be full-time and offered at a fair wage. Employers must also
first pay for advertising to check if there is a qualified American available.

Finally, employer petitions are complicated and require expert legal guidance,
costing around $ 8,000.

It can be far cheaper for family members seeking to sponsor a close relative.
Filing a family petition is fairly simple and can be done without legal help.
This has also led to a marriage blitz across South Florida, according to local
authorities. Broward County Courthouse has been so busy, officials turned the
lobby into a waiting room for couples.

The law temporarily revived an immigration provision that was in effect from
1994 to 1998. Known as Clause 245(i), the provision permits illegal aliens to
adjust their status without having to visit a U.S. consulate in a foreign
country.

This became crucial after Congress passed the Illegal Immigration Reform and
Immigrant Responsibility Act in 1996, which imposed stiff penalties on people
who left the country after having overstayed their visas, thereby discouraging
those considering trying to legalize their status.

A late departure of more than six months is punishable by a three-year ban on
re-entry, rising to 10 years for more than a one-year overstay.

"They want to make people legal. That's why they are doing this," Murphy said.
"They are bending over backward to give people a break. But there's lots more
people out there who aren't covered."

Jairo Lara, a 42-year-old interior painter from Colombia, is one of the lucky
ones, although his personal story is typical of the circumstances of many South
Florida immigrants.

He and his wife and daughter have been living and working illegally in the
United States for 18 months after they fled their home town of Barrancabermeja.
More than 200 people have died there in fighting between left-wing guerrillas
and right-wing paramilitaries during the first few months of this year.

"The guerrillas took away my farm. When I complained, they put a death sentence
on my head," he said.

His wife only heard about the law last week. Tuesday, Lara was at a lawyers'
office filling in the forms with his sponsor, Julian Garcia, the Cuban-American
owner of a Miami construction firm.

"Normally employers in my position don't want to know about people like him,"
Garcia said. "They don't want the hassle. They say "Go find another job.' "

Garcia, 44, who came to the United States from Cuba in 1969, said he sympathized
with Lara's predicament.

"Having had roots in a communist country and what it is to be persecuted, I'm
ready to help anyone within my reach," he added.

Lara said he was grateful for the window of opportunity provided by the law. His
10-year-old daughter is at the top of her class and already speaks perfect
English.

"This law has given us a chance. Now we don't have to hide anymore."

- Staff writer Curtis Krueger contributed to this report.


LOAD-DATE: May 4, 2001

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                    Copyright 2001 Times Publishing Company


                               8 of 302 DOCUMENTS

                         St. Petersburg Times (Florida)

              November 05, 2001, Monday, 0 South Pinellas Edition

Cut back on immigration and step up screening

SECTION: EDITORIAL; LETTERS; Pg. 11A

LENGTH: 1855 words



Years of mass immigration without properly investigating immigrants' backgrounds
have undoubtedly helped potential terrorists to settle among us in this country.
More than 1-million legal immigrants and more than 300,000 illegals enter the
United States every year. There is no way that immigration officials can
properly screen this mass influx.

It's high time that members of Congress realize that legal immigration should be
cut back, and illegal immigration should be brought to a screeching halt. In
view of the Sept. 11 cowardly attack on this nation, it should be very clear
that identity and background checks of immigrants be of the highest priority.
There is no way that this can be successfully done unless we cut back on the
mass exodus from other countries to our own.

Equally important is for Congress to pass "English only" legislation. If our
government continues in its taxpayer-financed promotion of multiculturalism, it
could destroy what has kept us together as a diverse, but unified, nation - our
English language. Foreigners who leave their own countries to settle in the
United States obviously must think that their lives in this country will be
better than in their native lands. Therefore, they should be willing to learn
English, embrace our customs and our way of life.

Richard Preston, St. Petersburg

Immigration reform required

An associated Press report appearing in the Times on Oct. 28 states that there
are 8-million illegal immigrants living in the United States.

In the wake of the attacks on New York and the Pentagon, I deem it necessary and
of the utmost importance that we review our immigration policies. Terrorists,
taking advantage of our laxity and loose laws found it entirely too easy to
enter this land of opportunity and to inflict a dastardly and cowardly act upon
innocent and unsuspecting people.

Sloppy administration of our immigration laws must no longer be tolerated. We
desperately require reform. Naivete invites disaster. Students, travelers and
those seeking political relief and/or medical aid using the visa privilege
should be more closely monitored. Stories about students and others overstaying
and getting lost in the system abound. Are we so inept that we cannot devise a
more stringent method of control?

Orfeo Trombetta, Seminole

War has no room for niceties

While a case may be made for some measure of "political correctness" in American
society, its practice in an all-out war on terrorism causes a damaging effect to
our military strategy.

For example, our leaders should not feel obliged to regularly confess that we
have injured or killed Afghan civilians. We need only to acknowledge that our
forces cannot fight a surgically antiseptic war. It is well-established that the
Taliban regularly locate themselves among the civilian population. American
television and newspapers should cease showing close-ups of injured Afghan
children, portraits that can weaken our national resolve. Instead we should
endlessly repeat that civilian casualties are an absolute necessity of war.

Acknowledging incidents of "collateral damage," as we regularly do, only serves
the enemy's propaganda.

Also, we should stop acknowledging our sensitivity to the enemy's Ramadan
holiday, which lasts for a month. Helping the Taliban to celebrate their holiday
would virtually destroy our military campaign. Such "sensitivity" was not shown
by the Japanese at Pearl Harbor on the Sunday Sabbath, or in the Arab attack on
Israel on Yom Kippur, or during the Iraq-Iran War when Ramadan was suspended for
nine years.

War is hell, Gen. William Tecumseh Sherman once advised us. There's no room for
political correctness, religious holidays or the observance of other niceties.

Our motto throughout this war forced on us by the terrorists should be:
"Remember the twin towers, remember the Pentagon, remember Pennsylvania."

Laurence M. Christman, lieutenant colonel, U.S. Army

(retired), South Pasadena

We mustn't fight for revenge

I've been a part of war. I saw massive carpet bombing in Cambodia as well as
South Vietnam. I saw huge arsenals of air power in Vietnam as well as in
Thailand.

What did it get us? Tragedy. Of course, when Americans get bombed, we call it
tragic. When civilians in poor Third World countries are bombed by us, we call
it "regrettable."

I am as patriotic as anyone. But I don't want us to be responsible for the
deaths of starving Afghans this winter. We can't only blame the Taliban, as
distasteful as that group is.

International security is important, as well as homeland security. But that
won't be helped by bombing Afghanistan. We are embarking on a reckless campaign
that will have far reaching repercussions for the entire century. Pakistan may
be destabilized. World War III will be a sustained, low-intensity conflict and
won't be winnable militarily. It will be high-tech terror against clever
manipulation of weak links in security. The suitcase will prove to be the
ultimate weapon, not missiles - except ours, of course.

A massive campaign of police work and humanitarian aid will accomplish more for
international peace than all the air power in the world, and we have the
majority of either at our disposal. Our "peace-loving" nation is wanting to slit
throats, but this is only what the enemy wants. And it won't work without
restraint and nonviolent strategy. I can fight in combat or defense as well as
anyone, but not in revenge at the expense of innocents.

Also, I am aware of the manufactured lies that got us into Vietnam in the first
place, and continue to be doubtful of the wisdom of those who march us forward
into another sustained war.

Jim Willingham, Veterans for Peace, St. Petersburg

Shakespeare can teach us much

As Alfred North Whitehead, with some justification, remarked, there is nothing
in the world so useless as well-informed man. The study of history enables us to
see what has happened, but much of what has happened in the world is produced by
chance, circumstance, missed or seized opportunities, unexpected consequences.
Nothing goes as planned: "The best laid schemes o' mice an' men" History gives
us the material for understanding but not the understanding. If you want to know
about the nature of war, spend two weeks in infantry combat; that will teach you
what Clausewitz can't.

T.S. Eliot said that Shakespeare was true, not to actual history, but to
essential history. William Shakespeare was not interested, as Hamlet was, in
holding a mirror up to nature; he was interested in enabling us to understand
the meaning of human nature. History is at the service of art; Shakespeare's art
is at the service of teaching us what it means to be a human being. Although
Shakespeare's plays may be treated differently by different readers, unless the
plays are considered as moral documents, they will remain just literary or
social exercises.

And so, as a practical matter in these most difficult times, if you want to
understand human nature, turn off the braying TV set and study Shakespeare. If
you want, for instance, to know how dangerous and destructive a
self-perpetuating feud can be, study Romeo and Juliet. As the story of these
star-crossed lovers unfolds, you can discern how (abetted by feuding, by
mischance and unruly passion) a pliable Benvolio, a waspish Mercutio, a zealous
Tybalt, a time-serving Friar and an amoral Nurse can change Romeo from a
lovesick youth to a resolute husband and can transform Juliet from a willful
girl to a certified heroine. What a shame it is to watch these determined young
lovers commit deliberate suicide. But then their story is like a jewel in a
ghastly night, like a good deed in a naughty world. Romeo and Juliet fill up our
hearts with awe and wonder, utterly unlike the sickness and revulsion with which
those terrorists defile our minds.

William B. Bache, Tarpon Springs

The wonders of diversity

Re: American ignorance of Islam isn't bliss - it's embarrassing, Sept. 20.

This is another of those disgusting guilt-ridden articles by a do-good American.

It seems Mary Jo Melone didn't recognize a replica of an Islamic holy place,
thinking it was the U.S. Capitol. Ooh, I'm "dumb" and Americans are "ignorant,"
she says. As though we should be walking encyclopedias of forty-leben religions.
Isn't diversity wonderful?

President Bush even used the word "crusade," she rants; can't have that because
Muslims are sensitive to crusades that ended - now get this - 800 years ago.
Isn't diversity wonderful?

Muslims even claim to be offended by attempts at proselytizing them and got a
law in Australia against it. Isn't diversity wonderful?

Francis J. Sullivan, St. Petersburg

Display the flag properly

Re: There's more to good citizenship than flag-waving, The suddenly patriotic,
and Actions show patriotism, letters, Oct. 25.

These three timely, excellent letters prompted me to write.

Waving the flag to show patriotism is fine, as long as it is done properly.
However, every day we see examples of disrespect to our flag. Some of the most
flagrant examples of disrespect are:

 Letting the flag touch the ground or floor or merchandise.

 Wearing it as apparel or as a costume.

 Displaying it in inclement weather (when it's not an all-weather flag).

 Flying it during hours of darkness when it's not illuminated.

Also, flags flown on vehicles should only be attached to the right front fender
(not from the roof or the rear end of a pickup truck), and no part of the flag
should touch the vehicle.

My references are the National Flag Foundation, U.S. Code Title 36, the American
Legion and your two previous articles (which you should re-publish): Symbol of
patriotism, July 4, 1996, and Waving the flag, Sept. 29, 2001.

Rose B. Kehrer, South Pasadena

Worn out flags should be retired

I have noticed that over the last several weeks, more and more people are flying
the American flag. I think it's great that everyone is being so patriotic. But I
have already seen many flags that need to be retired because they are torn or
faded.

According to the flag code, "when a flag has served its useful purpose, it
should be destroyed, preferably by burning." Many local organizations such as
the American Legion and Boy Scouts of America, offer disposal through
Unserviceable Flag Ceremonies. For individual citizens, flag burning should be
done in a non-public way so it's not mistaken for protest or desecration.

Those of you flying torn and tattered flags know who you are. Do the right thing
and get a new flag.

Patrick Hurst, senior patrol leader, Boy Scout Troop 413,

Safety Harbor

Share your opinions

We invite readers to write to us. Letters for publication should be addressed to
Letters to the Editor, P.O. Box 1121, St. Petersburg, FL 33731.

They can be sent by e-mail to letters@sptimes.com or by fax to (727) 893-8675.

They should be brief and must include the writer's name, address and phone
number. Please include a handwritten signature when possible.

Letters may be edited for clarity, taste and length. We regret that not all
letters can be published.


LOAD-DATE: November 6, 2001

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: CARTOON, DON ADDIS; A guard stops a passenger at a security checkpoint
and says, "Wait a minute... does that little American flag have a sharp pin on
the back?"

TYPE: LETTER

                    Copyright 2001 Times Publishing Company


                               9 of 302 DOCUMENTS

                         St. Petersburg Times (Florida)

              November 30, 2001, Friday, 0 South Pinellas Edition

Snitch, and he'll make you a citizen

SOURCE: Compiled from Times Wires

SECTION: NATIONAL; AMERICA STRIKES: INVESTIGATION; Pg. 11A

LENGTH: 459 words

DATELINE: WASHINGTON



Foreigners who help catch terrorists can be rewarded with U.S. citizenship,
Attorney General John Ashcroft promised Thursday.

Even illegal immigrants, he said, can avoid deportation through tips to federal
investigators about al-Qaida or other terrorists.

"We're asking all non-U.S. citizens to come forward," Ashcroft told reporters at
a Justice Department briefing to publicize the initiative. "People who have the
courage to make the right choice deserve to be welcomed as guests into our
country and perhaps to one day become fellow citizens."

Many immigration lawyers praise the approach, seeing it as a carrot that
promotes cooperation, unlike detention and threats of imprisonment, which coerce
it.

"It's a tool the government can and should use under the right circumstances,"
said Cleveland immigration lawyer David W. Leopold, who represents 11 Israelis
arrested for immigration violations in the wake of the Sept. 11 terrorist
attacks.

President Bush last month signed an amendment to the Immigration and Nationality
Act, renewing the so-called S Visa, which permits favorable immigration
treatment for foreigners who cooperate with U.S. law enforcement. Ashcroft
dubbed the initiative, begun in 1994, the "Responsible Cooperators Program."

Immigration workers often call it the "snitch visa."

"Terrorism rarely goes entirely unnoticed," he said, "and non-citizens are often
ideally suited to observe the precursors to, or early stages of, terrorist
activity" because of their cultural backgrounds and language fluency.

The information does not have to lead to an arrest or conviction of a suspected
terrorist. The only requirement is that it is useful and reliable to the
investigation, Ashcroft said.

The program is intended to coax noncitizens to come forward regardless of their
immigration status.

The extended visa would allow recipients to stay in the United States for up to
three years. During that period, visa holders would be allowed to apply for
permanent residency and then citizenship, Ashcroft said.

"They may rest assured that the United States welcomes any reliable and useful
information that they can provide," Ashcroft said. "In return, we will help them
make America their home."

Informants who do not qualify for the visa because of immigration charges could
be paroled or receive deferred prosecution.

"For many people, a visa that opens the pathway to American citizenship is worth
its weight in gold," Ashcroft said. "(It) may cost us nothing, but it is
priceless to the recipient.

"This is not limited to any population of individuals, except non-citizens,"
Ashcroft said. So, it applies to "literally the world," he said. Informants
should contact their local FBI field office.


LOAD-DATE: November 30, 2001

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: PHOTO; Attorney General John Ashcroft

                    Copyright 2001 Times Publishing Company


                              10 of 302 DOCUMENTS

                         St. Petersburg Times (Florida)

              September 17, 2000, Sunday, 0 South Pinellas Edition

Embracing Immigrants

BYLINE: JEFF HARRINGTON

SECTION: BUSINESS; Pg. 1H

LENGTH: 2038 words

DATELINE: TAMPA



A hot economy and the scarcity of workers it has produced has helped transform
attitudes about immigration.

Jeff Wolder is convinced a hidden economy of illegal immigrants is silently
thriving throughout the Tampa Bay area.

The dishwasher in the back kitchen of a restaurant. The construction workers
huddled by themselves on a job site. The visiting "cousin" who speaks no English
and works at a gas station.

As head of enforcement for the Tampa office of the Immigration and
Naturalization Service, Wolder receives as many as 10 calls or letters a week
about alleged illegal immigrants. But he rarely checks into the tips. "I just
don't have those kinds of resources," he said. His staff of four investigators
is absorbed in tracking immigrants with criminal records.

Whatever happened to the "get tough" policies on immigrants enacted in 1996?
Those headlines of INS workplace raids at hotels and restaurants?

Some think the answer lies no further than that favorite election-year mantra:
"It's the economy, estupido!"

A hot economy and the scarcity of workers it has produced have done more to
transform attitudes about immigration than decades of lobbying by pro-immigrant
activists.

Suddenly, almost everybody loves immigrants:

 The AFL-CIO has done an about-face from viewing immigrants as competitors to
seeing them as potential union members. Labor leaders this year began lobbying
to repeal a 1986 law that bars employers from hiring illegal immigrants, a
measure that was passed at the urging of unions.

 Restaurants, hotels and other service-sector businesses are pushing amnesty
plans to increase the pool of entry-level workers.

 High-tech companies clamoring for workers want to increase the cap on temporary
professional visas granted to immigrants from 115,000 to as many as 200,000 a
year. Companies use those visas, called H-1Bs, to sponsor foreigners to work for
them for up to six years.

 In worker-starved Iowa, political leaders have gone as far as proposing an
"immigrant enterprise zone" that essentially would let employers ignore federal
immigration laws in hiring.

Even the slow-to-change federal government had an attitude adjustment. While it
cut back on workplace raids, the Immigration and Naturalization Service
bolstered staff nationwide to speed up the process for issuing "green cards,"
documents that give immigrants permanent residency in the United States.

"I think it's a sign that we have finally woken up to the fact that the laws of
'96 were far too drastic and we were cutting our nose to spite our face," said
Cheryl Little, director of the Florida Immigrant Advocacy Center. "There has
been a concerted effort of late to undo some of those laws and recognize that
immigration can be a good thing."

Judy Mark of the National Immigration Forum, a pro-immigrant advocacy group in
Washington, thinks the "sea change" in acceptance of immigrants has to do with
their growing political clout as well.

"We find this whole thing amusing," she said. "We've been fighting for Latino
and immigrant issues for years and people slam doors in our faces. Now
Republicans and Democrats are all trying to court Latino voters."

The appeal lies in the numbers.

Recent figures from the Bureau of Labor Statistics estimate there were about
15.7-million immigrant workers in the country last year, up 17 percent over the
past three years. About 5-million of them are illegal immigrants, experts think.

The pro-immigration sentiment isn't unanimous.

The Federation for American Immigration Reform has run ads asserting that
foreigners are taking jobs away from qualified American workers. A recording at
the group's Washington headquarters urgers callers to send their criticisms to
Sen. Spencer Abraham, R-Mich., co-sponsor of a bill that would raise the ceiling
on visas for foreign workers.

Some critics warn that the next economic downturn may bring a backlash against
undocumented immigrants.

It is undisputed that the immigrant surge has helped keep the economy on track
by filling the low-paying service jobs: meat packers, hotel maids, seamstresses,
construction workers, fruit and vegetable pickers.

At the same time, foreigners with computer skills and visas increasingly are in
demand by high-tech companies.

Barbara Vinton, director of human resources for Tech Data in Clearwater, often
runs into the situation on college recruiting trips: foreigners seeking to
replace their expiring student visas with work visas by landing a job with the
computer reseller.

"I wouldn't say we are out there recruiting for H-1Bs, but there's a higher
frequency that we're coming across," Vinton said.

The cry for workers of all kinds is especially strong in Florida, which has a
jobless rate slightly under the 4 percent national average.

"We haven't had labor markets as tight as we have today for as long as we have,"

 Orlando economist Hank Fishkind said, adding that the country has tapped into
all its labor sources. "We've brought in most of the women that want to work,
most of the seniors and teenagers that want to work."

Immigration trends in the United States always have been tied to its labor pool.
The Great Depression discouraged immigration so much that by the 1930s, more
people left the United States than entered.

During earlier times of prosperity, such as World War II, the need for more
workers from overseas was kept in check by a suspicion of immigrants. A
prolonged peacetime has chipped away at the distrust.

Even Federal Reserve chairman Alan Greenspan, whose carefully chosen utterances
draw reverence from both sides of the political aisle, has cited immigration as
one of the remedies for a shrinking labor pool that threatens continued economic
growth.

Currently about 800,000 immigrants enter the country legally every year compared
with about 300,000 who enter illegally.

Congress is considering legislation on two fronts. One, promoted by Republicans
and the high-tech industry, is to increase the number of visas allowing
professional foreigners to work in the United States. Employers applying to
bring in such immigrants must demonstrate that they have tried and failed to
find American workers with similar advanced skills.

The other piece of legislation, championed by Democrats and Hispanic groups,
would give amnesty to several immigrant groups that were left out of the last
general amnesty in 1986. The measure would give Guatemalans, Haitians,
Salvadorans and Hondurans who fled civil strife in their homelands the same
protections granted to Nicaraguans and Cubans under a 1997 law.

Both measures are caught up in election-year politics. Democrats don't want to
agree to the high-tech visas without a commitment to amnesty. Republicans risk
alienating the Hispanic vote if the amnesty plan is brought to a vote and
defeated.

"We hold no hope we're going to get any type of reform of immigration policy
this year. There's just not enough time," said John Gay, co-chairman of the
recently founded Essential Worker Immigration Coalition. Gay, who works for the
American Hotel and Motel Association, is representing a broad-based group that
includes labor, church, business and civil rights leaders.

Mark of the National Immigration Forum is more optimistic about movement on
Capitol Hill. She thinks two primary forces behind the measures - high-tech
companies and Latinos - are too powerful in an election year to be put off.

"Our view is it's not an either/or (with the legislation). You can do both," she
said. "That's ultimately what's going to happen."

A change in direction

Immigrant advocacy groups think the changing tone in Washington gave INS
commissioner Doris Meissner the political cover she needed to institute sweeping
changes that were long talked about.

Earlier this year, Meissner gave the thumbs-up to quicker processing of green
cards and thumbs-down to workplace raids. Instead, the emphasis on the
enforcement side shifted to stronger border patrols, deportation of illegals
with a criminal record and a crackdown on rings that furnish phony documents to
immigrants.

"The top priority as far as enforcement is definitely the removal of criminal
aliens but also to go after the alien smuggling operations," said Bill
Strassberger, an INS spokesman in Washington. "Rather than attacking piecemeal,
(the agency is) going after the root causes of illegal migration."

The change in direction has trickled down to INS' office in Tampa's Westshore
district, which serves west-central Florida. Every weekday morning dozens of
immigrants line up waiting to be processed. Between 300 and 400 applicants file
through its doors each day.

The Tampa staff charged with processing paperwork for visas and green cards has
doubled to 20 in the past two years, and approvals have sped up as a result.

"We've reduced our processing time to about a year and our goal is to get that
to around six months," said James Minton, officer in charge of the Tampa
operation. "For naturalizations, it was over three years and for (visa)
adjustments it took about two years."

Last year, Tampa processed about 4,000 applications seeking permanent residence
in the United States; this year Minton expects nearly 5,000 applications to go
through.

On the enforcement side, Wolder's staff has stayed flat at fewer than a
half-dozen. The investigators focus on keeping track of immigrants with criminal
records, particularly those just getting out of prison, and looking for
smuggling rings.

"We still want the employers to continue to comply with the law," Minton said,
"but we have shifted away from the work site enforcement."

Tim Spridgeon, a Tampa attorney who represents immigrants seeking professional
work visas, isn't ready to give the INS a pat on the back yet.

He said most cases, particularly the recently filed ones, are on track to be
approved in less than 18 months.

"The older cases (though) are resolving themselves under the old system," he
said. "Quite a few cases are still caught in the three-year backlog."

Likewise, Cheryl Little of the Florida Immigrant Advocacy Center, said the
perception that the INS has grown kinder and gentler to immigrants is overblown.

Immigrants with "very minor criminal records" still are being detained and
deported, she said.

"The INS jail population is the fastest-growing jail population in the country,"

 Little said. "The INS jails in Florida are overcrowded. They're warehousing
more and more people under worse and worse circumstances. I don't think the INS
has changed."

- Times researcher John Martin contributed to this report, which also used
information from Times wires.

Immigration by the numbers

Immigrants in U.S. work force: 15.7-million, or 12 percent of the nation's
workers.

Estimated number of those workers in the U.S. illegally: 5-million to 6-million.

Percentage of workers whose illegal status is because of expired visas: 41.

Illegal immigrants from Mexico: about 2.7-million, or 54 percent.

Immigrants entering the U.S. legally: about 800,000 a year.

Immigrants entering the U.S. illegally: about 300,000 a year.

Quota of three-year visas granted to high-tech workers: 115,000 in 1999.

Florida's share of illegal immigrants: about 350,000, growing by 20,000 a year.

Annual deportation and formal removal of illegal immigrants in Florida+: 3,725.

Annual voluntary departures of illegal immigrants in Florida+: 2,820.

Fiscal 2001 budget of Immigration and Naturalization Service: $ 4.8-billion, up
11 percent.

Sources: Immigration and Naturalization Service; Times research; Times wire
reports.

+In fiscal 1997, the most recent data available.

Two-year-old Briana Alexandre stares off in the distance Friday while her
father, Henry Timothee, and mother, Maria Alexandre, fill out forms in the
waiting room at the Immigration and  Naturalization Service office on W Cypress
Street in Tampa. The couple, who are from Haiti, were at the office to check on
the status of Timothee's work permit.

Dozens of immigrants wait to be processed Tuesday morning at the Immigration and
Naturalization Service office on W Cypress Street in Tampa. Between 300 and 400
applicants file through the doors each day.


LOAD-DATE: September 18, 2000

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: COLOR PHOTO, CHRIS SCHNEIDER; COLOR PHOTO, KEN HELLE; BLACK AND WHITE
PHOTO; Two-year-old Briana Alexandre stares off in the distance Friday while her
father, Henry Timothee, and mother, Maria Alexandre, fill out forms in the
waiting room at the Immigration and Naturalization Service office on W Cypress
Street in Tampa.; Dozens of immigrants wait to be processed Tuesday morning at
the Immigration and Naturalization Service office on W Cypress Street in Tampa.;
James Minton

                    Copyright 2000 Times Publishing Company


                              11 of 302 DOCUMENTS

                         St. Petersburg Times (Florida)

              October 19, 2000, Thursday, 0 South Pinellas Edition

Victims of geopolitics

SECTION: EDITORIAL; EDITORIALS; Pg. 16A

LENGTH: 402 words



Congress was in a sour mood when it passed the 1996 Illegal Immigration Reform
and Immigrant Responsibility Act. It was just a couple of years after
Californians approved Proposition 187 intended to kick the children of illegal
immigrants out of school and deny them social services. Scapegoating
non-Americans was in vogue and Congress followed suit. The harsh law it enacted
got tough on immigrants - legal and illegal, alike.

In addition to provisions giving low-level immigration officers on-the-spot
authority to bar someone from entering the country if their papers weren't
perfectly in order, the law called for rounding up and deporting legal
immigrants who had criminal offenses in their backgrounds. Deportable offenses
range from manslaughter to drug offenses.

The disastrous consequences of this rigid law have been well documented by St.
Petersburg Times staff writer Susan Taylor Martin, including the saga of Hadi
Alyasin of Pasco County who, at age 18, had consensual sex with an underage girl
he thought was older. Because of his conviction he was deported to his native
Syria and will probably be barred from seeing his parents in the United States
for the next 18 years.

While some of the immigrants deported deserved that fate, many have been pushed
out of their adopted homeland because of a single youthful indiscretion or
mistake.

But the law also has created a disturbing anomaly. Thousands of immigrants -
estimated at nearly 4,000 - have no place to be sent. Countries such as Cuba,
where we have difficult or non-existent diplomatic relations, won't take their
former citizens back. Even though these "lifers," as they're called in legal
limbo, have already fully served their criminal sentences, they find themselves
incarcerated again in Immigration and Naturalization Service detention centers -
without any hope of release.

While some courts, such as the 9th U.S. Circuit Court of Appeals in San
Francisco, have ruled that such indefinite detention is illegal, other federal
appellate courts have approved the practice. This term the U.S. Supreme Court
has agreed to resolve the matter.

Indefinite detention is an intolerable situation that makes a mockery of our
constitutional guarantees of due process. Immigrants  or not, under no condition
should people be subject to permanent imprisonment merely because they are
victims of geopolitical circumstances.


LOAD-DATE: October 20, 2000

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: EDITORIAL

                    Copyright 2000 Times Publishing Company


                              12 of 302 DOCUMENTS

                         St. Petersburg Times (Florida)

                            November 16, 2003 Sunday

Farm workers get another raw deal

BYLINE: BILL MAXWELL

SECTION: PERSPECTIVE; Pg. 7D

LENGTH: 946 words


The fate of the nation's farm workers is again at the center of immigration and
labor legislation in Washington. Again, these invaluable workers are getting a
raw deal. The big difference this time is that most farm worker advocacy
organizations have compromised with lawmakers and growers on policies they
traditionally have rejected.

At issue is the Agricultural Jobs, Opportunity, Benefits and Security Act of
2003 ("AgJOBS"), sponsored by Sen. Larry Craig, R-Idaho, and Rep. Chris Cannon,
R-Utah. Major farm worker groups supporting the bill include the United Farm
Workers of America, the Farm Labor Organizing Committee and the Farmworker
Justice Fund Inc. Two Democrats, Sen. Edward Kennedy and Rep. Howard Berman, are
advising the farm worker groups and support the bill.

The legislation, consisting of two parts, is complex: Part one is a
"legalization" or "earned adjustment" program that will give undocumented farm
workers temporary immigration status followed by earned permanent resident
immigration status after workers complete additional agricultural employment
during the next three to six years. Part two is the H-2A agricultural guest
worker program that allows growers to hire foreign workers on temporary
nonimmigrant visas based on claims of labor shortages. The sponsors say the new
legislation will fix the abuses of a similar bill proposed in 1998.

Although the formula for gaining legalization consists of several "work day"
requirements, farm worker advocates are willing to give the legislation a
chance. Critics, however, are less sanguine. They worry that without impartial
watchdogs, growers and their field bosses will have too much discretion in
documenting how long and when workers were employed.

Even though a legal procedure for determining work day status is written into
the bill, critics worry that, as has been done previously, labor and immigration
officials will not enforce the rules.

A temporary worker who is fired without "just cause," for example, could file an
administrative complaint with the feds to earn credit toward the work
requirement for the days that he improperly lost. Workers injured on the job
also should get credit for lost work days. Some longtime advocates argue that
the majority of farm workers, foreigners who are trying to please their U.S.
bosses to earn legal status, will be afraid to file complaints.

Again, many advocates are willing to live with this part of the bill because, as
one UFW leader said: "At least the law will be on the books. We might get lucky
and persuade somebody to enforce it once in a while."

The guest worker portion of the legislation is clearly more problematic for
advocates who support the bill, primarily because this provision perpetuates the
lie that farm workers are in short supply. Like its 1998 predecessor, AgJOBS
2003 is designed to help farmers hire tens of thousands of temporary foreign
workers to cultivate and harvest crops despite government evidence showing that
such workers are unnecessary.

In Florida, the nation's citrus belt and major winter vegetable producer,
farmers will continue to enjoy a limitless supply of cheap labor. If this
legislation passes, all competitive incentives to improve wages and benefits for
farm workers will be removed.

The bottom line, according to the General Accounting Office, is that the United
States has an ample supply of farm workers. The latest guest worker provision
perpetuates the myth that because farm work is backbreaking and dirty, Americans
citizens will not do such work.

The truth, of course, is that Americans do all sorts of tough, dirty, seasonal
work - laying asphalt on highways, mining coal, roofing in 100-plus-degree
weather, constructing skyscrapers. The secret is that these jobs usually pay
well and offer benefits that everyone, other than farm workers, takes for
granted.

American agricultural practices defy traditional economic theory: When labor is
in short supply, wages increase. In the farming industry - where owners claim a
shortage of labor - wages have fallen or remained stagnant for the last 25
years.

Bruce Goldstein, an attorney and co-executive director of the Washington-based
Farmworker Justice Fund, generally supports AgJOBS, but he has serious concerns
with the H-2A provision. He is especially worried that the bill leaves farm
workers without any meaningful collective bargaining power.

In a prepared statement, he said: "The mere fact of holding legal status does
not guarantee that farm workers' wages and working conditions will improve; nor
does legal status eliminate the discrimination that agricultural workers
continue to face in federal and state labor laws. Government and employers
should take steps to stabilize this work force by making agricultural work more
attractive and productive.

"With a large number of legal-immigrant farm workers in the country, there
should be no need for H-2A guest workers during the several years after the
legalization program begins. The changes to the H-2A guest worker program
necessitate great vigilance on the part of the farm worker advocates and
government agencies to prevent unscrupulous employers from taking advantage of
vulnerable guest workers."

Perhaps parts of the new bill will improve the plight of farm workers.
Invariably, however, efforts to help farm workers show that legislation alone
cannot force agricultural employers to be fair. The time has come to drag these
rich, unscrupulous growers and their field bosses into court for their
noncompliance with previous laws. Conditions for farm workers will not change
until their abusers are prosecuted, fined and sent to prison.

LOAD-DATE: November 16, 2003

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: COLUMN

                    Copyright 2003 Times Publishing Company


                              13 of 302 DOCUMENTS

                         St. Petersburg Times (Florida)

                             March 26, 2004 Friday

Workers' arrests give birth to scary rumors

BYLINE: SAUNDRA AMRHEIN

SECTION: PASCO TIMES; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 709 words

DATELINE: DADE CITY


Panic and rumors spread wildly through the Mexican and immigrant communities of
Dade City and Clearwater after an employer called immigration authorities and
turned in about 20 undocumented workers.

Since the arrests March 12 of the employees of Florida Frame & Trim working at
Plantation Palms in Land O'Lakes, word spread that immigration officials were
canvassing Pasco County in vans and buses, setting up roadblocks and picking
people up off the street.

The rumors caused some families to stay home from church and grocery stores and
prompted a local prayer vigil and a visit to Dade City by a representative of
the Mexican consulate office from Orlando earlier this week.

"I think when that (the arrests) happened, it made everyone scared," said
Margarita Romo, director of Farmworkers Self-Help Inc. in Tommytown outside Dade
City. Romo said the incident showed the need for meaningful immigration reform
so that working families would not have to look over their shoulders or be torn
apart.

The news spread to Clearwater, where several agencies serving the Mexican
immigrant population tried to figure out what was going on.

"In Clearwater we haven't seen anything yet," said Odilawn Mesquite, vice
president of the Mexican Council of Tampa Bay. "I know families who don't have
papers. What are they going to do?"

The Catholic Church was one of the first to hear about the detainees.

"It was really creating havoc over there (in Dade City)," said Arnold Andrews,
executive director of Catholic Charities. "We noticed it when a service of 100
or more people had less than a handful (at St. Rita Catholic Church in Dade
City). People called in and said they were scared to go out on the street
because they would get picked up. We had a number of priests who had an
emergency meeting. We've been trying to work with our Tallahassee office to find
out what this was all about."

Andrews said he has been fielding calls from crying wives wondering where their
husbands were and what was going to happen to them. One was pregnant.

Neither Dade City police nor the Pasco County Sheriff's Office received courtesy
calls from immigration officials about any roadblocks or sweeps for illegal
immigrants. Attorneys and social service workers think the fright stemmed from
the arrest of undocumented or illegal immigrants at the Plantation Palms work
site.

Jose Navarro, 21, of Dade City was one of the employees arrested while building
frames for homes in Plantation Palms. He said the arrests occurred after a
fellow employee was injured on the job in February, falling two stories to the
ground and requiring hospitalization.

When it was discovered that the employee was an illegal immigrant, Navarro said
insurance officials and other investigators put pressure on his bosses to turn
in everyone else with false documents. His boss did not return a call for
comment.

Eighteen men and one woman were arrested and charged with using false Social
Security numbers, Navarro said. They were picked up by the Bureau of Immigration
and Customs Enforcement and the U.S. Marshals Service, he added. An ICE
spokeswoman denied involvement, and the Marshals Service could not be reached
for comment.

Navarro is married to an American citizen and was expecting to get his green
card in April, an expectation shared by his attorney John Ovink, who has offices
in Tampa and Dade City.

But until then, Navarro has been working under a false Social Security number
that he has been using since he started working at the age of 15 to help support
his family, which brought him to the United States when he was 6, he said.

He now has a 2-year-old son and a baby on the way. After spending a week in a
Hillsborough County jail until he was released on a signature bond, he now does
not know whether he'll be deported after his case goes through federal court.

He has been taking classes to get his GED and planning to join the Navy, he
said. He said he doesn't know how anyone expects him to live and support his
wife and children if he can't work.

He won't be able to provide for them if he's deported, he said.

"If they send me to Mexico, there's no future for my family."

- Times staff writer Adrienne Samuels contributed to this report.

LOAD-DATE: March 26, 2004

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                    Copyright 2004 Times Publishing Company


                              14 of 302 DOCUMENTS

                         St. Petersburg Times (Florida)

             September 11, 2001, Tuesday, 0 South Pinellas Edition

U.S.-Mexico immigration policy

SECTION: EDITORIAL; EDITORIALS; Pg. 16A

LENGTH: 577 words



Mexican President Vicente Fox came to Washington last week and surprised
President Bush with a challenge: Complete an agreement on immigration policy
changes between the United States and Mexico by the end of the year. The Bush
administration, which had raised expectations for an agreement in earlier
discussions with Mexico, lowered expectations this time. The White House is
correct to caution that Fox's timetable may not be realistic. Sweeping reforms
are needed to end the hypocrisy that pervades the relationship between illegal
Mexican workers and the American companies that employ them, but the United
States' first overhaul of immigration policy in 15 years should be undertaken
carefully.

Fox proposes a broad amnesty for the roughly 3-million illegals currently
working in the United States. President Bush has wisely rejected blanket
amnesty, while hinting at support for an earned legalization process.    While
differing on the details, U.S. and Mexican leaders agree in principle on changes
that would create a new immigration status to replace the current guest worker
designation. Some Republicans in Congress want any change in the guest worker
designation to await a broader overhaul of the Immigration and Naturalization
Service. But that is likely to take too long to suit Fox or Bush. Some Democrats
and labor leaders are pushing for broader amnesty for those already in the
country illegally, along with tougher sanctions for employers who mistreat
workers. They oppose wider use of the current guest worker system, saying it
opens workers to exploitation. Building more worker rights, such as
whistle-blower protections and the ability to switch jobs, into a temporary
worker structure would help curb those abuses.

Beyond the legal issues, both presidents face political pressures at home.
Mexico's lagging economy forces Fox to support his citizens who find work in the
United States, legally or illegally, and send much of their money home. The
slumping U.S. economy creates new difficulties for Bush. Broader immigration
reforms were less controversial when our economy was booming and workers were
hard to find. When Americans feel their jobs are threatened, anti-immigrant
sentiment runs high. Moreover, advocates for immigrants from other parts of
Latin America, the Caribbean and Asia are right to argue that those workers
should be given equal rights in any new program. Yet, if immigration reform is
broadened to encompass more immigrants, it may become harder to sell.

While broader legislation likely will not be ready until well into 2002,
Congress should take advantage of several opportunities to endorse incremental
reform in the meantime. The guest worker issue offers the best chance to strike
a bipartisan consensus in favor of earned adjustment and to reject creating a
permanent group of temporary second-class residents. Other worthy bills would
protect unaccompanied minors who enter the country and allow immigrants to avoid
deportation when a sponsor dies.

Our deteriorating economy already has made immigration reform a more
controversial issue than President Bush thought it would be when he first
broached the subject with Fox. As negotiations between Bush and Fox go forward,
their obvious friendship should help to discourage the sort of ugliness that has
complicated earlier efforts to repair a system that affects millions of
immigrants who do indispensable work in this country.


LOAD-DATE: September 12, 2001

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: EDITORIAL

                    Copyright 2001 Times Publishing Company


                              15 of 302 DOCUMENTS

                         St. Petersburg Times (Florida)

              December 12, 2000, Tuesday, 0 South Pinellas Edition

Al-Najjar could be released today

BYLINE: SUSAN ASCHOFF

SECTION: NATIONAL; Pg. 1A

LENGTH: 598 words



A panel lifts a stay that had confined the Tampa man to a detention center.

A Tampa man jailed three years on secret evidence alleging terrorist ties could
be set free this morning, barring another loop on the roller-coaster ride that
has become his fight with the U.S. government.

An immigration appeals panel on Monday unexpectedly lifted a stay, granted five
days earlier, that had confined Mazen Al-Najjar to a detention center in
Bradenton.

An appeal by the government has "little likelihood" of success, the panel found,
and Al-Najjar should go free.

The 43-year-old teacher could leave the Immigration and Naturalization Service
facility as early as 8 a.m. His family and friends will be there with a check
for the $ 8,000 bail when it opens, they said.

"He is very close to walking out the door," said Al-Najjar's attorney,
Georgetown University law professor David Cole.

The INS still has options.

For one, it could seek another stay in federal court.

More likely, the INS will ask Attorney General Janet Reno to intervene. In at
least two similar cases of secret evidence being used against immigrants, Reno,
at the request of the INS, has halted releases ordered by judges so she could
review them.

Nasser Ahmed of New York spent an additional 10 days behind bars, and New Jersey
resident Hany Kiareldeen was jailed another week.

"What (Reno) has done in the past is she's often granted a temporary stay, and
then not done anything" to pursue the case, said Cole.

The attorney general is familiar with Al-Najjar's story.

Over the past two years she has repeatedly met with civil rights and Muslim
groups, congressmen and others working to free the longtime U.S. resident, who
came to the United States almost 20 years ago from the Gaza Strip to go to
college.

Al-Najjar, Ahmed and Kiareldeen are among two dozen immigrants nationwide
suspected of ties with terrorists. Almost all are Arab or Muslim.

They have not been charged with a crime but were detained on classified
evidence, kept from them and their attorneys for security reasons.

The government says Al-Najjar, a former Arabic teacher at the University of
South Florida, participated in a USF-affiliated think tank that was a front for
the Palestinian Islamic Jihad.

Al-Najjar was ordered deported for overstaying a student visa, then jailed
during his appeal because the government says he is a threat.

Defeated in immigration court, Al-Najjar's attorneys asked a federal judge for
relief.

U.S. District Judge Joan A. Le-nard ordered a rehearing. Last week, after taking
both public and classified evidence, immigration Judge R. Kevin McHugh ordered
Al-Najjar released. McHugh said the government failed to prove its case in open
court and denied Al-Najjar his right to defend himself by not sharing enough of
its secret evidence.

Although McHugh ordered Al-Najjar's release on Wednesday, he went nowhere.

The INS obtained a stay of McHugh's order from the Board of Immigration Appeals,
saying it wanted to appeal the release of Al-Najjar while he fights his
deportation.

Monday's three-paragraph decision by the immigration panel was the latest in
weeks of twists and turns for Al-Najjar and his family.

On Monday his wife, Fedaa Al-Najjar, said she "didn't want to be happy" for fear
she would be disappointed again.

"We knew Mazen would be out," said his brother-in-law, USF professor Sami
Al-Arian. "It's just a matter of when."

On Monday, fearing more INS delays, attorneys filed briefs with Judge Lenard in
Miami, seeking Al-Najjar's release on constitutional grounds.


LOAD-DATE: December 13, 2000

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: COLOR PHOTO; Mazen Al-Najjar

                    Copyright 2000 Times Publishing Company


                              16 of 302 DOCUMENTS

                         St. Petersburg Times (Florida)

                 May 13, 2002 Monday 4 State / Suncoast Edition

U.S. to grant Thai boy special immigration status

SOURCE: Compiled from Times Wires

SECTION: NATIONAL; Pg. 3A

LENGTH: 686 words

DATELINE: WASHINGTON; ANGELES NATIONAL FOREST, CALIF.; CHICAGO; ATHENS, GA.


With the personal blessing of Attorney General John Ashcroft, the Justice
Department has decided to grant semi-permanent immigration status to a
4-year-old Thai boy who has become an international poster child for the ills of
human trafficking, the Los Angeles Times reported.

The decision helps a Los Angeles couple acting as Phanupong Khaisri's guardians
in their fight to keep him in the United States. The boy's grandparents seek his
return to Thailand.

Lawyers for the Immigration and Naturalization Service are expected to convey
their decision today to attorneys involved in the two-year battle over the
future of the boy, who is known as Got. He will be granted a "T" visa.

Congress created the "T" visas in 2000 as a special immigration status allowing
victims of human trafficking to stay in the United States if they can convince
immigration officials that they would face "extreme hardship" if returned to
their native countries.

Got arrived at Los Angeles International Airport in 2000, accompanied by two
adults who authorities say were using him as a decoy to smuggle a female
prostitute into the country. The adults were expelled to Thailand, but the
debate about what to do with the boy set off an international debate that some
likened to the case of Cuban boy Elian Gonzalez.

The boy's father, mentally ill since childhood, killed himself not long after
Got was born, and his mother, who has worked at a bar in Bangkok, Thailand, was
a drug addict. Adding further tragedy to the boy's case, Got is HIV-positive.

The boy's grandparents in Thailand have been trying to have him returned to
their custody. But in the meantime, he has been living with a Los Angeles couple
who have been made his court-appointed guardians and have been trying to adopt
him.

Brush fire rages

near Los Angeles

ANGELES NATIONAL FOREST, Calif. - A wildfire fueled by stiff winds and dry, hot
conditions blazed to 3,200 acres Sunday in a forest north of Los Angeles, but
cabins in the area were out of danger, fire officials said.

The fire that erupted Saturday morning was 15 percent contained by mid-afternoon
Sunday, said Capt. Greg Cleveland of the Southern California Incident Management
Team. More than 1,000 firefighters battled the flames.

Temperatures in the Santa Clarita Valley climbed into the 90s Sunday and winds
of up to 30 mph were expected, according to the National Weather Service.
Conditions were unusually dry, with the area 11 inches under normal rainfall
levels.

About 150 people were voluntarily evacuated from 110 small recreation cabins
Saturday when flames drew dangerously near. Firefighters cut firebreaks around
the structures and the blaze moved safely past them Sunday, but two camping
sites and roads into the area remained closed.

Earlier Sunday, the blaze appeared headed west toward the San Francisquito
Canyon and homes there, but firefighters turned it back, said Los Angeles County
fire Capt. Brian Jordan.

Jesse Jackson leaves hospital after muscle pain

CHICAGO - The Rev. Jesse Jackson was released from a hospital Sunday, a day
after he was admitted for muscle pains in his shoulder, a hospital spokesman
said.

Jackson, who heads the Rainbow/PUSH Coalition, checked himself into the
University of Chicago Hospitals on Saturday, and doctors kept him overnight for
observation, said hospital spokesman John Easton.

Jackson's symptoms likely were related to an automobile accident that the civil
rights leader was in several weeks ago, Easton said.

Wife of legendary coach plans run for Congress

ATHENS, Ga. - Barbara Dooley, a local radio talk show host and wife of legendary
Georgia football coach Vince Dooley, says she plans to run for Congress.

Dooley, a Republican, said Saturday that she would make a formal announcement in
a few weeks for the new 12th District that stretches from Augusta to Savannah.
Georgia gained the new House seat after the 2000 Census.

Dooley, 62, had been encouraged to run by several Georgia Republicans.

Her only campaign experience has been a failed 1991 race for the state House of
Representatives.

LOAD-DATE: May 13, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                    Copyright 2002 Times Publishing Company


                              17 of 302 DOCUMENTS

                         St. Petersburg Times (Florida)

                  May 13, 2002 Monday 0 South Pinellas Edition

Deport him or let him out

SECTION: EDITORIAL; Pg. 12A

LENGTH: 339 words


Tuesday will mark six months since former University of South Florida teacher
Mazen Al-Najjar was imprisoned pending his deportation. It is time for the
Immigration and Naturalization Service to deport him or let him out of prison.
As the U.S. Supreme Court recognized last year, indefinite detention of
stateless illegal aliens is not an acceptable option under the Constitution.

The INS has tried unsuccessfully for the past six months to find a country to
take Al-Najjar, the Palestinian father of three American citizen daughters, who
overstayed a student visa. Now, under the rules set down by the U.S. Supreme
Court in the Zadvydas vs. Davis case, Al-Najjar should be freed from detention
unless the government can show that he is a danger.

The Justice Department hasn't been able to show that in the past. Previously,
Al-Najjar was imprisoned for more than three years in a Bradenton jail due to a
government claim that it had secret evidence of his ties to the terrorist group
Palestine Islamic Jihad - a claim Al-Najjar vehemently denies. In May 2000, a
federal judge ruled that the government must provide Al-Najjar with enough
information on the secret evidence to allow him to mount a defense. He was
released after an immigration judge found the government's public case
essentially groundless.

Then, last November, following a final order of deportation by a federal appeals
court, Al-Najjar was rearrested and placed in the Coleman Federal Correctional
Complex in Sumter County. He has been there, held mostly in solitary confinement
for six months, while the government tried to find a country to take him. If
that hasn't happened by Tuesday, he should be released. If the government
refuses, Al-Najjar's attorneys will rightly ask the courts to intervene.

Of course, even after being released Al-Najjar could still be deported at any
time. He is in this country illegally and should be removed. The trick is
finding a place for him - a problem it seems beyond the capabilities of our
government to solve.

LOAD-DATE: May 13, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: PHOTO; Mazen Al-Najjar

                    Copyright 2002 Times Publishing Company


                              18 of 302 DOCUMENTS

                         St. Petersburg Times (Florida)

                  May 15, 2002 Wednesday 2 Late Tampa Edition

Al-Najjar still in jail, despite deadline

BYLINE: GRAHAM BRINK

SECTION: TAMPA & STATE; Pg. 3B

LENGTH: 863 words

DATELINE: TAMPA


Since immigration officials detained Mazen Al-Najjar in November, his lawyers
have argued that the federal government had six months to deport him or release
him from prison.

That deadline came and went Tuesday,  and the former University of South Florida
teacher remains behind bars.

In reaction, Al-Najjar's lawyers filed a petition in federal court in Miami
arguing that his continued detention violates immigration laws and the U.S.
Constitution.

"The law is clear," said David Cole, one of Al-Najjar's attorneys. "They have no
authority to hold him any longer."

Justice Department officials would not comment on the case.

Cole  said he does not expect his client to walk free this week. A federal judge
will have to consider the petition and possibly hear arguments from both sides.
He said the federal government sent Al-Najjar a notice that it will review his
confinement on June 7.

Cole argues  the case falls under the 1995 immigration laws which allow the
government to jail a potential deportee for 180 days. If federal officials
cannot deport him in that time, they can continue to try but must first let him
out of jail.

The government can impose reasonable reporting requirements, such as weekly
check-ins, but cannot keep him in prison, Cole said.

The only exception under the 1995 law, Cole said, is if the defendant purposely
thwarts efforts to deport him. Al-Najjar has cooperated with the Immigration and
Naturalization Service every step of the way, he said.

Al-Najjar entered the United States from Gaza in 1981 and overstayed his student
visa. He has been fighting deportation since 1996. A federal appeals court
affirmed a deportation order against him on Nov. 13 and that's why the INS
detained him, federal authorities said at the time.

No country, however, has offered to take him, including the United Arab
Emirates, which rejected Al-Najjar's request for residency in March. Al-Najjar
is a stateless Palestinian linked to terrorism by the federal government,
although he has never been charged with a crime.

Cole thinks the federal government will argue that Al-Najjar's case falls under
laws enacted in 1996 that the INS says gives it more flexibility in detaining
potential deportees who are a threat to national security.

Cole said Al-Najjar's case began before those laws were enacted. And even under
the more recent laws, the INS has no reason to keep Al-Najjar in prison.

"We've been through much of this before,  and the judges keep ruling in favor of
Al-Najjar," Cole said.

In 1997, Al-Najjar challenged an immigration judge's decision to keep him jailed
on the basis of classified evidence allegedly linking him to the terrorist group
Palestinian Islamic Jihad.

He spent 3 1/2 years in jail on the basis of the classified information. In
December 2000, then-Attorney General Janet Reno released him after a federal
judge ruled his constitutional rights were violated by the government's refusal
to share the secret evidence with him.

After his most recent detention,  U.S. District Judge Joan Lenard in Miami ruled
that the government could keep Al-Najjar in jail while trying to deport him. But
she cited a 2001 Supreme Court decision, Zadvydas vs. Davis, that sets a
six-month time limit on detention in such cases.

Cole said the federal government has failed to prove Al-Najjar is a threat to
national security. The evidence, Cole said, suggests he is not.

In the months between his release from prison in December 2000 and the recent
detention, no allegations arose that he engaged in any illegal conduct. The
government, Cole said, agreed that Al-Najjar had nothing to do with the Sept. 11
attacks. He has also proved he is not a risk to flee and that he is willing to
comply with any reasonable supervisory rules the INS wants to impose, Cole said.

Evidence that someone is a security threat is often classified, which could
again raise questions about whether the use of secret information is
constitutional.

"They are trying to put him in a box that he doesn't fit in," Cole said. "Some
first-degree murderers are treated more humanely than he is."

Al-Najjar has spent the last six months in solitary confinement at the Coleman
Federal Correctional Complex in Sumter County, about 75 miles north of Tampa. He
spends 23 hours a day in a 6-foot by 9-foot cell.

His brother-in-law, controversial USF professor Sami Al-Arian, said the last six
months have been exhausting on Al-Najjar's wife, Fedaa, who also faces
deportation, and their three children.

For the first time Sunday, they were allowed to visit Al-Najjar in person,
instead of behind safety glass, Al-Arian said.

Al-Arian was a founder of the World and Islam Studies Enterprises, an Islamic
think tank at USF that was raided by the FBI in 1995 after a former head of the
group turned up as the leader of Palestinian Islamic Jihad. Al-Najjar also was
involved with the think tank. Neither man was ever charged with a crime.

"We have to hope that the judge acts quickly to resolve what has become a
terrible situation," Al-Arian said. "This needs to end."

- Graham Brink can be reached at (813) 226-3365 or brink@sptimes.com.

LOAD-DATE: May 15, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DISTRIBUTION: TAMPA & STATE; CITY & STATE; METRO & STATE

GRAPHIC: PHOTO; Mazen Al-Najjar

                    Copyright 2002 Times Publishing Company


                              19 of 302 DOCUMENTS

                         St. Petersburg Times (Florida)

                 May 30, 2002 Thursday 0 South Pinellas Edition

Judge bars closed detainee hearings

SOURCE: Compiled from Times Wires

SECTION: NATIONAL; Pg. 7A

LENGTH: 533 words

DATELINE: WASHINGTON; NORFOLK, Va.


A federal judge in New Jersey dealt a significant blow Wednesday to the
government's efforts to hold terrorism suspects in secret, ruling
unconstitutional a directive closing immigration hearings deemed of "special
interest" to the investigation into the Sept. 11 attacks.

If upheld, the ruling would strike down one of the government's primary
investigative tools after the attacks on the Pentagon and the World Trade Center
and possibly shed light on the fate of dozens, if not hundreds, of people who
have been arrested, detained or deported in secrecy.

The judge, John Bissell, described as "serious and legitimate" the government's
assertion that opening the hearings could compromise its ability to prevent
terrorism, but he said those concerns could be addressed on a case-by-case basis
and were outweighed by the right of the public and the press to view the
hearings.

In a Sept. 21 memorandum, the nation's chief immigration judge directed
immigration judges to close hearings involving detainees whose cases have been
designated of "special interest" to the FBI. The memo also prohibited court
administrators from listing the cases on dockets, or confirming when hearings
are to be held.

The Justice Department is expected to appeal.

Memo: FBI deleted e-mails in bin Laden case

WASHINGTON - An internal FBI memo says agents destroyed evidence gathered in an
investigation involving Osama bin Laden's network after its e-mail wiretap
system mistakenly captured information to which the agency was not entitled.

The FBI software not only picked up the e-mails of its target "but also picked
up e-mails on non-covered targets," said a March 2000 memo to agency
headquarters in Washington.

"The FBI technical person was apparently so upset that he destroyed all the
e-mail take, including the take on" the suspect, the memo said.

A Justice Department official told the Associated Press that the e-mails were
not destroyed. The official did not elaborate.

The episode was described in documents made public through a Freedom of
Information Act request filed by the Electronic Privacy Information Center, a
Washington advocacy group.

At issue was an investigation in Denver in which the FBI's bin Laden unit was
using the bureau's Carnivore system to conduct electronic surveillance of a
suspect. The suspect's name and other information were marked out of the letter.


American-born prisoner can meet with attorney

NORFOLK, Va. - A federal judge Wednesday gave the government 72 hours to allow
the second American-born prisoner captured in Afghanistan to meet privately with
an attorney.

Government lawyers had argued that such a meeting would be a risk to national
security because it would interfere with the government's interrogation of Yaser
Esam Hamdi.

The government also maintained that as a captured enemy combatant, Hamdi can be
held indefinitely and is not entitled to a lawyer because he has not been
charged with anything.

"That sounds idiotic, doesn't it?" said U.S. District Judge Robert G. Doumar.

Doumar said that under the Constitution, a person being held has the right to
see a lawyer. He gave the government until midday Saturday to appeal.

LOAD-DATE: May 30, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                    Copyright 2002 Times Publishing Company


                              20 of 302 DOCUMENTS

                         St. Petersburg Times (Florida)

                 June 10, 2002 Monday 0 South Pinellas Edition

Defending due process

SECTION: EDITORIAL; Pg. 8A

LENGTH: 381 words


So far two federal district courts - one in Detroit and another in New Jersey -
have ruled against the government's categorical use of secret immigration
hearings for post-Sept. 11 detainees. In each case the Justice Department is
either appealing or vowing to. Attorney General John Ashcroft is deaf to pleas
regarding the due process rights of the immigrants he secretly imprisoned after
the terrorist attacks - almost all of whom the Justice Department admits had no
connection to the events of Sept. 11. It is increasingly clear that Americans
will have to depend on the courts to force the Justice Department to recognize
the limits on its exercise of power.

On the same day U.S. District Court Judge John Bissell in New Jersey rejected
the government's use of closed immigration hearings, a federal court in Virginia
was ordering the government to allow Yaser Esam Hamdi access to an attorney.

Hamdi, a combatant captured in Afghanistan, was taken out of the prison camp in
Guantanamo Bay, Cuba, and brought to a Navy brig in Virginia when it was
discovered he was probably born in Louisiana. As an American, his presence at
Camp X-Ray could have given the federal courts jurisdiction to rule on the
conditions of confinement and the status of the prisoners held there. In an
effort to avoid any oversight by the federal courts, the government moved him to
U.S. soil. It now claims Hamdi can be held indefinitely without charge and
without access to counsel as an enemy combatant. (The government also refuses to
categorize Hamdi as a prisoner ofwar, since that designation would give him and
others held at Guantanamo rights under the Geneva Convention.)

U.S. District Court Judge Robert Doumar ordered that Hamdi be allowed to meet
with an attorney privately within 72 hours. A person being held by the
government has a right to see a lawyer, Doumar said. The government has
appealed.

With the executive branch acting with the silent assent of Congress, the courts
appear to be the only institution willing to hold the government accountable.
Because the federal courts are insulated from popular pressures, it is the one
branch of government best able to protect individual rights. These days that job
is tougher and more important than it has been in a long time.

LOAD-DATE: June 10, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                    Copyright 2002 Times Publishing Company


                              21 of 302 DOCUMENTS

                         St. Petersburg Times (Florida)

                 June 18, 2002 Tuesday 0 South Pinellas Edition

Reminder of immigrants' rights

SECTION: EDITORIAL; Pg. 6A

LENGTH: 451 words


The problems of deportable immigrants may not be at the top of anyone's list of
concerns these days, but a federal appeals court ruling in December invalidating
a policy mandating detention for aliens awaiting deportation has reminded us
that the Constitution protects every person in this country, citizen or not.

The case of Patel vs. Zeminski involved a government policy in which immigrants
facing deportation because they had once commited a crime were automatically
kept in mandatory detention, even if the deportation took months or even years.
The government argued that policy is constitutional for noncitizens because they
have far diminished rights to due process.

However, the 3rd U.S. Circuit Court of Appeals disagreed. It said a blanket
policy, one that applies to all immigrants regardless of individual
circumstances, is fundamentally unfair and deprives immigrants of their interest
in liberty afforded every person, regardless of citizenship. According to the
court, detention is only appropriate if it furthers a legitimate governmental
interest, such as public safety. A showing that the immigrant was a flight risk
or a danger to the community could justify detention while deportation
proceeded, but not every immigrant fits these categories, said the court. A bond
hearing is necessary to evaluate the situation for each immigrant.

The case arose after Bholidas Patel, a native of India who has been in this
country since 1984, was ordered deported and then held while challenges to the
order moved through the courts. Patel, a married father of four children who
owns a number of Dunkin' Donuts franchises and hotels, was on the verge of
taking his oath of American citizenship when he was convicted of harboring an
undocumented alien. In 2000, he served a five-month prison sentence for the
crime and the Immigration and Naturalization Service moved to deport him. Patel
was then kept in prison under INS detention for more than a year. After the
court ordered a bond hearing, Patel was finally released on a $50,000 bond in
January. The court noted that Patel spent a longer time imprisoned pending
deportation than he had for his crime.

"To deprive these individuals of their fundamental right to freedom furthers no
government goal, while generating a considerable cost to the government, the
alien and the alien's family," wrote the court. The Justice Department, while
not appealing this decision, is nonetheless asking the U.S. Supreme Court to
overturn similar rulings in other cases.

The appeals court decision in Patel has reminded us at a very sensitive time
that immigrants are individuals with some fundamental rights that the government
must respect.

LOAD-DATE: June 18, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                    Copyright 2002 Times Publishing Company


                              22 of 302 DOCUMENTS

                         St. Petersburg Times (Florida)

               August 17, 2002 Saturday 0 South Pinellas Edition

Embattled INS chief resigns after year

SOURCE: Compiled from Times Wires

SECTION: NATIONAL; Pg. 7A

LENGTH: 536 words

DATELINE: WASHINGTON


James Ziglar, the beleaguered chief of the Immigration and Naturalization
Service, said Friday that he would leave his job by the end of the year, ending
a short tenure at what is widely considered one of the government's worst-run
agencies.

Ziglar, a financial services lawyer and boyhood friend of Senate Minority Leader
Trent Lott, R-Miss., had no background in immigration law when he took the job
last August. But he was expected to repair relations between the agency and
lawmakers.

Instead, the agency has angered many lawmakers since the Sept. 11 terrorist
attacks. In one high-profile failure that angered even President Bush, an INS
contractor sent out visa approvals for two of the Sept. 11 hijackers - six
months after the attacks.

Ziglar wrote to President Bush on Thursday that he had set no date for his
departure. He offered to stay on until Congress and the president approve
legislation creating a new Department of Homeland Security, which is expected to
include some or all of the INS's 34,000 employees.

Firefighters protest Bush

decision not to spend

WASHINGTON - The International Association of Fire Fighters plans to challenge
President Bush's decision to withhold money that would help fire departments,
but will not boycott the Oct. 6 annual memorial service for fallen firefighters,
the union's president said Friday.

"We would never ever boycott any of the memorials that are going to honor my
members," general president Harold Schaitberger said after the union convention
adjourned Friday.

The union voted during its Las Vegas assembly to ask Schaitberger to formally
protest Bush's decision to withhold $5.1-billion in antiterrorism funds.

Suit is for $1-trillion, not

$100-trillion, lawyer says

WASHINGTON - The lawyer for 700 relatives of Sept. 11 victims said Friday that
his clients will amend their lawsuit against Saudi officials and the Sudan
government to correct a mistaken demand for $100-trillion.

The actual damages being sought are more than $1-trillion.

The larger amount, contained in a lawsuit filed Thursday in U.S. District Court
in Alexandria, Va., and widely reported by news outlets, was an error, said lead
plaintiff's attorney Ron Motley.

"I don't know how $100-trillion got in there. Somebody probably typed it at 4
o'clock in the morning," Motley told the Associated Press on Friday.

Among detainees . . .

MOUSSAOUI TRIAL DELAYED: The trial of Zacarias Moussaoui, accused of being a
Sept. 11 conspirator, was postponed Friday after a federal judge in Alexandria,
Va., ruled that Moussaoui and his lawyers were entitled to more time to sift
through the large amount of audio, video and written evidence.

Jury selection was to have begun Sept. 30 before U.S. District Judge Leonie
Brinkema. Now, initial jury selection will begin Dec. 9, and final selection and
opening statements will start Jan. 6, Brinkema ruled.

FACTS SOUGHT ON CITIZEN: A federal judge in Norfolk, Va., said Friday the
government must give him more than the "sparse facts" it has provided so far to
explain why it is holding Yaser Esam Hamdi, who was born in Louisiana and was
captured in Afghanistan late last year.

LOAD-DATE: August 17, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                    Copyright 2002 Times Publishing Company


                              23 of 302 DOCUMENTS

                         St. Petersburg Times (Florida)

              September 5, 2002 Thursday 0 South Pinellas Edition

Court's check on power

SECTION: EDITORIAL; Pg. 16A

LENGTH: 632 words


There was no mincing of words by the federal appeals court in Cincinnati. Called
upon to determine the constitutionality of the government's blanket order
holding immigration hearings of post-Sept. 11 detainees in secret, the court
said: "A government operating in the shadow of secrecy stands in complete
opposition to the society envisioned by the Framers of our Constitution."

The case of Detroit Free Press vs. Ashcroft is the first time one of the
administration's antiterrorism tactics has been held unconstitutional by a
federal appeals court. The strong language used by the 6th U.S. Circuit Court of
Appeals in rejecting the administration's policy of closed hearings gives us
hope that the courts will do their part to strike the proper balance between
security and individual rights.

The case arose after Rabih Haddad was picked up and detained for overstaying his
tourist visa. Haddad is co-founder of the Global Relief Foundation, an Islamic
charity suspected by the government of funding terrorist activities. Like that
of every detainee rounded up in the terrorist investigation, Haddad's
deportation hearing was ordered closed by Chief Immigration Judge Michael
Creppy.

The government has labeled the Muslim and Arab men it picked up in the aftermath
of the terrorist attacks as people of "special interest." Even when their
immigration hearings involved no classified information, the administration has
invoked national security to keep the proceedings secret, with no family or
reporters allowed in the room.

The crux of the administration's assertion is that terrorist cells could obtain
"mosaic intelligence" if the hearings were open. There are pieces of information
that aren't sensitive by themselves but taken together could compromise
investigative strategies. Yet, the detainees are allowed to communicate with
outsiders, and if they have counsel, their attorney may also speak to the
public. There is nothing air-tight about this secrecy.

Seeing the serious flaws in the government's national security claims, federal
district courts in Michigan and New Jersey have ruled that the hearings must be
presumptively open. Now the 6th Circuit has agreed with the lower courts.

Circuit Judge Damon Keith, writing for a unanimous court, showed little patience
with the Justice Department's argument that it had exclusive authority to decide
whether immigration hearings will be open or closed since the immigration courts
are administrative, not judicial. "Deportation hearings "walk, talk, and squawk'
very much like a judicial proceeding," Keith wrote. Public access to any sort of
adjudication is vital to a free society, Keith said, "as a check on the actions
of the Executive by assuring us that proceedings are conducted fairly and
properly.

"When government begins closing doors, it selectively controls information
rightfully belonging to the people. Selective information is misinformation,"
Keith wrote.

The court did not foreclose the opportunity for the administration to close
specific hearings for individual deportees, but it would have to make a credible
showing of the need for secrecy in each case.

The administration's antiterrorism tactics are finally getting the judicial
scrutiny they deserve. In addition to secret deportation hearings, there are
cases moving through the courts on whether the identities of detainees can be
kept from the public, whether Americans can be held by the executive branch
without charge or access to a lawyer, and whether wiretaps obtained without
probable cause can be routinely used in criminal prosecutions.

With Congress unwilling to challenge the administration on these issues, the
judiciary is the only serious check on Attorney General John Ashcroft's campaign
to rewrite the Constitution.

LOAD-DATE: September 5, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                    Copyright 2002 Times Publishing Company


                              24 of 302 DOCUMENTS

                         St. Petersburg Times (Florida)

             September 25, 2002 Wednesday 0 South Pinellas Edition

INS missed L.A. airport gunman's terror ties

SOURCE: Compiled from Times Wires

SECTION: NATIONAL; Pg. 5A

LENGTH: 361 words

DATELINE: SOUTH BEND, Ind.


An Egyptian immigrant who went on a July 4 shooting rampage at Los Angeles
International Airport had told immigration officials nearly a decade earlier
that the Egyptian authorities had accused him of being affiliated with a known
terrorist organization, the New York Times reports, quoting unnamed officials as
saying Tuesday.

The Immigration and Naturalization Service failed to investigate evidence that
appeared to link the immigrant, Hesham Hadayet, to an Egyptian extremist group
even as the agency was considering his application for political asylum in the
mid 1990s, the officials told the newspaper. A rigorous examination of the
asylum application could have ended with Hadayet being deported, they said.

The immigration service's handling of the Hadayet case prompted Attorney General
John Ashcroft to order the agency last week to conduct an investigation into
possible links between asylum seekers and terrorist groups, the New York Times
reports, quoting unnamed officials involved.

Girl's illness blocks visit by

mother in taped beating

SOUTH BEND, Ind. - A woman arrested after she was caught on videotape beating
her 4-year-old daughter could not meet with the girl Tuesday because the child
was sick, officials said.

Madelyne Gorman Toogood was scheduled to have a 90-minute supervised meeting
with her daughter, Martha, who is in foster care.

Mike Gotsch, an attorney for the state Office of Family and Children, said
Toogood would be allowed to see her daughter today if the girl has recovered
from the flu.

Also . . .

L.A. WILDFIRE GROWS: A wildfire in the San Gabriel Mountains foothills above Los
Angeles jumped from 8,000 acres to 12,000 acres in just a few hours Tuesday,
sending smoke pouring over the sprawling metropolitan area and triggering public
health warnings.

MEAT TESTING TO EXPAND: After a series of recalls of contaminated meat this
summer, federal food regulators plan to target all meat packers for random E.
coli testing, reversing a policy that had exempted some processors from such
tests. Agriculture Secretary Ann Veneman announced the policy Tuesday; it is to
take effect in a few weeks.

LOAD-DATE: September 25, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                    Copyright 2002 Times Publishing Company


                              25 of 302 DOCUMENTS

                         St. Petersburg Times (Florida)

              October 9, 2002 Wednesday 4 State / Suncoast Edition

Deportation hearings can be secret, court rules

SOURCE: Compiled from Times Wires

SECTION: NATIONAL; Pg. 6A

LENGTH: 885 words

DATELINE: PHILADELPHIA; LONDON; KUALA LUMPUR, Malaysia


A federal appeals court ruled Tuesday that immigration hearings may be closed by
the government, dealing a blow to media organizations who sought access to
hearings involving foreigners swept up in the nation's terrorism investigation.

The three-judge panel of the 3rd U.S. Circuit Court of Appeals reversed a lower
court ruling and said the attorney general has the right to close the hearings
for reasons of national security. Justice Department lawyers had argued that
national security would be threatened if reporters and others were allowed to
attend.

American Civil Liberties Union attorney Lee Gelernt, who argued the case on
behalf of two New Jersey publications, said the group is considering whether to
appeal to the Supreme Court or ask for the case to be reheard by the full 3rd
Circuit.

"We are disappointed that the court has sanctioned the use of secret hearings to
deprive people of their liberty," he said. "Locking people up in secret hearings
is profoundly at odds with the basic principles of fairness."

For nearly a year, reporters and members of the public have been barred from
deportation hearings for hundreds being held in terrorism investigations.

Media organizations sued to reopen the hearings, or to allow them to be closed
only if the government could persuade a judge that secrecy was necessary.

The two-judge majority disagreed, however, writing that the types of deportation
hearings being closed were "extremely narrow" and that the attorney general is
in a better position than immigration judges to determine their importance to
national security.

Al-Qaida tape warns U.S.: You reap what you sow

LONDON - In a taped interview, a speaker purported to be Osama bin Laden's top
deputy, Ayman al-Zawahri, threatens new attacks on the United States, its allies
and its economy.

The authenticity of the audiotape, obtained by Associated Press Television News
on Tuesday, could not be independently confirmed. It was not known when the tape
was made - though it includes references to the United States' recent standoff
with Iraq and a July 1 U.S. bombing in Afghanistan.

The speaker said to be al-Zawahri accuses the United States of trying, through
its campaign against Iraq, to subjugate the Arab world on behalf of Israel.

Al-Zawahri, an Egyptian who is regarded as a primary strategist of the al-Qaida
terrorists and was with bin Laden in Afghanistan, disappeared soon after Sept.
11 but is widely thought to have survived U.S. bombing there. U.S. officials say
they don't know whether he or bin Laden are alive.

APTN on Tuesday played the tape to Abdel-Bari Atwan, editor of the London-based
Arabic daily Al-Quds Al-Arabi, who has interviewed al-Zawahri.

"To my knowledge it does sound like the voice of Ayman al-Zawahri," Atwan said.

In the recording, an unidentified person interviewed the speaker said to be
al-Zawahri, who issued a warning to what he called "the deputies of America," to
get out of the Muslim world, specifically Germany and France.

"The mujahid youth has already sent messages to Germany and France," the speaker
said. "However, if these doses are not enough, we are prepared with the help of
Allah, to inject further doses."

A May 8 attack on a bus in Pakistan killed 11 French engineers and an April 11
blast at a synagogue in Tunisia, a former French colony, killed 16 people,
including 11 Germans. Both attacks have been linked to al-Qaida.

"As for America itself, it should expect to be treated the same way it has
acted," the man on the tape says, pointing to suffering of Muslims in
Afghanistan and in the Palestinian territories.

Al-Zawahri also was said to be alive in a satellite telephone conversation
reportedly intercepted over the weekend by U.S. and Afghan intelligence. The
conversation was between fugitive Taliban leader Mullah Mohammed Omar and his
former deputy prime minister, Maulvi Abdul Kabir, an Afghan intelligence
official told the Associated Press. The report could not be confirmed by U.S.
officials.

Also . . .

KUALA LUMPUR, Malaysia - An American citizen charged with conspiring to fight
with al-Qaida in Afghanistan sought asylum Tuesday after being arrested in
Malaysia.

The U.S. government has charged Ahmed Ibrahim Bilal and five others with
belonging to a terrorist cell in Portland, Ore., and trying to join al-Qaida to
battle U.S. troops. Four of the others were arrested last week and the sixth is
being sought.

A Malaysian judge on Tuesday stayed Bilal's deportation pending a hearing today
on the legality of his arrest. Officials said he was arrested for not having a
valid passport.

A senior State Department official said the United States has no extradition
treaty with Malaysia, but Malaysia can deport Bilal to his country of origin,
the United States, if he is found to be in Malaysia illegally.

AFGHAN HEALTH CARE: A top U.S. health official signed an agreement with
Afghanistan's government Tuesday to help redevelop its ailing medical
infrastructure.

U.S. Health and Human Services Secretary Tommy Thompson also said the United
States would set up a maternal health clinic in Kabul that would treat patients
and train doctors and nurses to provide health care services in rural areas.

Thompson made the comments during a one-day visit to the capital, Kabul.

LOAD-DATE: October 9, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                    Copyright 2002 Times Publishing Company


                              26 of 302 DOCUMENTS

                         St. Petersburg Times (Florida)

              November 21, 2002 Thursday 0 South Pinellas Edition

Malvo mother ordered back to Jamaica

SOURCE: Compiled from Times Wires

SECTION: NATIONAL; Pg. 6A

LENGTH: 298 words

DATELINE: SEATTLE; GOSHEN, Ind.; AMHERST, N.Y.


The mother of teenage sniper suspect John Lee Malvo has been ordered deported to
Jamaica, an Immigration and Naturalization Service spokesman said Wednesday.

An immigration judge signed the order Tuesday after Una James, 38, dropped
battered spouse claims that were part of a petition she made to seek special
protection in the United States, INS spokesman Garrison Courtney said.

However, Courtney said a federal judge could block the deportation if another
agency - namely, the Justice Department - wanted to keep her in the country.
James is considered a likely witness in the sniper cases.

Second inmate captured;

abductee still missing

GOSHEN, Ind. - The second of two escaped inmates suspected of abducting a South
Carolina woman during a multistate crime rampage was captured Wednesday in
Indiana. The woman's whereabouts was not immediately known.

Chadrick E. Fulks, 25, was being questioned Wednesday. Fulks' brother and a
woman were being questioned and agents were checking a car and home for clues.
FBI Agent Tom VanWormer said it was not immediately clear if authorities were
any closer to finding Alice Donovan, 44.

Paper: Jailed militant says

he killed abortion doctor

AMHERST, N.Y. - An antiabortion extremist awaiting trial on charges of murdering
an abortion doctor admitted carrying out the sniper attack but said he meant
only to wound the man and "the bullet took a crazy ricochet."

"The truth is not that I regret shooting Dr. Slepian. I regret that he died,"
James Kopp, a militant known as "Atomic Dog" in antiabortion circles, said in a
jailhouse interview in Wednesday's Buffalo News. "I aimed at his shoulder."

Kopp, 47, said he shot Dr. Barnett Slepian with a rifle on Oct. 23, 1998,
because of his outrage over abortions.

LOAD-DATE: November 21, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                    Copyright 2002 Times Publishing Company


                              27 of 302 DOCUMENTS

                         St. Petersburg Times (Florida)

              December 26, 2002 Thursday 0 South Pinellas Edition

Groups protest U.S. arrests of Middle Easterners

SOURCE: Compiled from Times Wires

SECTION: NATIONAL; Pg. 19A

LENGTH: 924 words

DATELINE: LOS ANGELES; COLOGNE, Germany; NEW YORK; JERUSALEM


Groups representing Middle Easterners are suing the government seeking an
injunction to bar future arrests under rules adopted in the aftermath of the
Sept. 11 terror attacks.

The suit, which seeks class-action status, also asked a federal court to prevent
the detention without bond or deportation of detainees who "have avenues
available to legalize their status."

At least 400 men were arrested in Southern California for visa violations when
immigrants from Iran, Iraq, Libya, Sudan and Syria went to Immigration and
Naturalization Service offices last week to register as required under the new
policy. Many said the violations were due to slow paperwork processing by the
INS.

Most of those arrested were in Southern California, where all but 23 had been
released by last week. However, many of those released still face immigration
hearings and some could face deportation.

The arrests prompted outrage and protests, especially by Iranian-Americans who
charged that many of those held were in the process of becoming legal residents
and were arrested without warrants or access to legal help.

"They're doing everything that the government wants them to do and they're being
detained. There's no due process," said Jason Erb of the Washington-based
Council on American-Islamic Relations, one of the groups that filed the suit
Tuesday.

"We're not challenging the right of the government to keep track of people who
visit the country. We're critical of the way it's being done," he said. "We're
critical of mass arrests of people who are trying to follow all the rules."

The U.S. Justice Department, which oversees the INS, declined to comment on the
lawsuit, but spokesman Jorge Martinez defended the registration requirement.

He said most of the detentions occurred in Southern California, which has a
large Iranian-American population, because many people waited until the day of
the deadline to register and they had to be detained for background checks.

In the next phase of the program, about 7,200 male visa holders from 13
countries, including Afghanistan, Algeria, Lebanon and North Korea, will be
required to register by Jan. 10. Males from Saudi Arabia and Pakistan must
register by Feb. 21.

Bodies of seven German

soldiers returned home

COLOGNE, Germany - The bodies of seven German peacekeepers killed in a
helicopter crash in Afghanistan arrived home Wednesday, met by grieving
relatives and Defense Minister Peter Struck.

An honor guard carrying flaming torches stood at attention in the twilight and
drums rolled softly as the flag-draped coffins were carried off the transport
plane at Cologne-Bonn airport.

"All of Germany grieves with you," Struck told the victims' relatives.

The seven were killed Saturday when their Sikorsky CH-53 helicopter crashed as
it returned from a routine patrol over Kabul. They were among 4,800 peacekeepers
stationed in the Afghan capital for the past year.

Trade center relics

cataloged for display

NEW YORK - Preservationists are cleaning and photographing hundreds of burned,
battered and twisted World Trade Center relics at an isolated airport hangar to
create a catalog for museum curators and memorial planners worldwide.

About 700 objects were plucked from the 1.6-million tons of debris by a team of
architects working for the trade center owners, the Port Authority of New York
and New Jersey. Among them: five floor slabs compressed into a 3-foot-thick
pancake, a bus-sized chunk of the north tower antenna, a crushed fire truck with
its ladder twisted into a candy cane shape.

In a parking lot outside the former Tower Air hangar at Kennedy International
Airport, several crushed cars covered in tarps sit next to more piles of twisted
steel, an elevator motor the size of a refrigerator and the commuter train cars
that were found buried in the seven-story-deep pit that was the trade center
basement.

Shortly after the terrorist attack, museums around the world began requesting
items from the disaster.

"There are a lot of things that are very evocative of the life of the World
Trade Center as it existed, and of course, a lot of material that documents the
day of Sept. 11th," said Sarah Henry, vice president for programs at the Museum
of the City of New York. "The tremendous physical forces unleashed that day are
frozen in time."

The Port Authority has not designated specific pieces to any museum or memorial
organization, said Mark Wagner, one of the architects on the project.

The team expects all 700 artifacts to be decontaminated and cataloged within six
months, and then be available to lend out.

Israel decides against

smallpox vaccinations

JERUSALEM - Israel's Health Ministry decided Wednesday not to vaccinate the
public against smallpox, citing security services' determination that there is
no strong threat of an Iraqi biological attack now.

Israel has vaccinated about 15,000 health and rescue personnel against smallpox
in recent weeks because of the growing threat of war between the United States
and Iraq.

There are fears a U.S. attack would lead Saddam Hussein's regime to strike at
Israel, possibly with biological or chemical weapons.

However, after consultations with Israeli and American security officials, the
Health Ministry concluded Iraq probably does not have both the smallpox virus
and the capability to use against Israel.

Despite the decision, the ministry will complete a plan for handling a public
vaccination in case the situation changes, spokesman Ido Hadari said.

LOAD-DATE: December 26, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

SERIES: IN BRIEF

TYPE: DIGEST

                    Copyright 2002 Times Publishing Company


                              28 of 302 DOCUMENTS

                         St. Petersburg Times (Florida)

                            December 29, 2002 Sunday

Targeting Muslim men detained under new INS rules is unjust

BYLINE: ROBYN E. BLUMNER

SECTION: PERSPECTIVE; Pg. 6D

LENGTH: 774 words


Allow me to put this right up front so there is no misunderstanding: I believe
all people who enter and remain in this country illegally should be deported.

Unlike the President, who was toying with this idea before the Sept. 11 attacks,
I do not support some sweeping amnesty that would give legal status to those who
abused our law. The estimated 6-million illegal aliens living and working here
have cheated the system and shouldn't be rewarded for it.

At the same time, our government's sudden interest in strict enforcement of
immigration laws against one community - Muslim men - is a grave injustice and
will endanger national security in the long term.

Our State Department is in the middle of an international propaganda campaign
deemed necessary for our future security. We are trying to demonstrate to Arab
citizens that the United States is not biased against Muslims, by sponsoring
Voice of America's Radio Sawa broadcasts of pop music and Arabic news with an
American slant, and by beaming commercials on Arab television of Muslims who
live free and happy lives in America.

All this image-building is going on abroad while at home our government is
subjecting nationals from those very countries to a form of ethnic profiling on
a scale not seen since the Japanese internment.

Just ask Faramarz Farahani, a Canadian citizen and high-tech worker who found
himself confined for days in an Immigration and Naturalization Service holding
facility in California. Farahani, 42, was imprisoned not because he was
suspected of terrorist ties, not because he was in this country illegally, but
because he failed to properly register under the INS's latest program to target
Muslims for universal suspicion.

A new registration and fingerprinting program requires males over 16 years of
age who are here on temporary visas from the countries of Iran, Iraq, Sudan,
Syria or Libya to register in person with the INS. Those who failed to do so are
subject to arrest, fines and deportation. Men and boys from another 15 Arab and
Muslim countries will have to register by certain dates in January and February.

According to Farahani's attorney, Banafsheh Akhlaghi, though born in Iran,
Farahani didn't think the rules applied to him. He was a Canadian after all,
working in the United States as a systems analyst under a valid visa. But when
he showed up at the INS office in San Jose to register in a surfeit of caution,
he was arrested because he had passed the deadline. INS spokesman in Washington,
D.C., Jorge Martinez said, those with dual citizenship are subject to the rule.

This is just the kind of pointless, bureaucratic rulemaking that will make us
less safe in the long run. Knowing the location of law-abiding Muslim visitors
offers little added internal security. (Non-law-abiding visitors aren't likely
to show up to register.) But what it does in spades, is antagonize the Muslim
world. In a recent trip to Saudi Arabia, nearly everyone I spoke with mentioned
this special fingerprinting requirement as evidence of American contempt for
Muslims. The businessmen, students and tourists who come to the United States
had been our best ambassadors of good will. That is, before we broadcast through
our actions that we think they are all closet terrorists.

The first deadline of Dec. 16 was a nightmare for hundreds of Iranian and Iraqi
men who crushed into INS offices. In California especially, INS workers were
completely overwhelmed. At least 400 men who had voluntarily come to register
ended up in holding facilities while errors in documents and records were being
sorted out. Some were even flown to other cities where detention beds were
available, without their relatives or attorneys being informed of their
whereabouts. Akhlaghi, who represented at least 25 of the detainees, said the
families of these men were crazy with worry.

The imprisonments were often due to dual messages coming from the INS. Men
waiting for approval of their green cards were arrested for lapsed visas, even
when they had been told that by paying a small fine they could stay in the
country for the months and years it took for the paperwork to be processed.

INS ineptitude also contributed to the men's woes. Any noncompliance with
immigration rules, no matter how minor or technical, was grounds for detention
and ultimately deportation. Yet, back in July, the San Diego Union Tribune told
of how the agency failed to input 200,000 change of address forms, making those
immigrants susceptible to arrest.

The INS has always been a bureaucratic quagmire. One has to wonder how adding to
its paper pushing is making us safer.

LOAD-DATE: December 29, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: COLUMN

                    Copyright 2002 Times Publishing Company


                              29 of 302 DOCUMENTS

                         St. Petersburg Times (Florida)

                January 5, 2003 Sunday 0 South Pinellas Edition

Canadians note increase in refugees from U.S.

BYLINE: JIM FOX

SECTION: NATIONAL; Pg. 17A

LENGTH: 566 words


There's been a huge increase in the number of Americans making refugee claims in
Canada since the Sept. 11 terrorist attacks.

The 135-percent jump in the past year isn't a surprise as due process in the
United States has changed with more "arbitrary policing" than before, said
immigration lawyer David Matas.

The Immigration and Refugee Board said 191 people filed refugee claims citing
persecution in the United States, compared with 81 in 2001. Nancy Duarte of
Canada's Citizenship and Immigration department is monitoring the increase.

Vancouver immigration lawyer Phil Rankin said most of the claimants he has dealt
with suffer mental illnesses that lead them to wrongly believe they are
persecuted in the United States. Others are trying to avoid prosecution.

There has been an overall increase in all refugee claims, said Janet Dench,
executive director of the Montreal-based Canadian Council for Refugees.

Optimism sinking

A poll by Maclean's magazine shows only 26 percent of Canadians are more
optimistic about the future than they were a decade ago.

That is the lowest number of optimists recorded in Maclean's annual year-end
poll since 1996 - despite a healthy economy, interest rates near historic lows
and peace in their own backyard.

"As a nation we're pessimistic, anxious and frustrated," said Bob Marshall,
Maclean's assistant managing editor.

In brief

More "weird, wild and wacky weather" is in the forecast in the coming year, says
Environment Canada climatologist Dave Phillips. It was a strange year for
weather in 2002 with a balmy winter while spring was colder than January,
followed by a "punishingly hot" summer. Predictions are it will be unusually
warm and stormy because of an El Nino weather system this year.

Manulife Financial Corp. is waging a hostile takeover bid for Canada Life for
about $6.4-billion. The 200,000 shareholders, mainly in Canada and the United
States, have 60 days to examine the bid of $40 in cash for each share. Manulife
already owns about 9 percent of Canada Life's shares. Canada Life executives
call the bid too low.

Facts and figures

Canada's dollar continues under pressure and is lower at 63.56 U.S. cents while
a greenback returns $1.5733 Canadian before bank exchange fees.

The Bank of Canada key interest rate remains 2.75 percent. The prime lending
rate is 4.5 percent.

Canadian stock exchanges were higher, with the Toronto index at 6,607 points and
the Canadian Venture Exchange 1,053 points.

Lotto 6-49: (Dec. 28) 12, 14, 15, 27, 28, 39; bonus 34. (Jan. 1) 2, 5, 32, 34,
38, 49; bonus 7.

Regional briefs

The Council of Canadians is concerned that a bill passed by the Alberta
government could open the door to water exports to the United States. The
national watchdog group said the bill, which allows an interbasin water transfer
between the South and North Saskatchewan River basins, could force Canada to
export water under the North American Free Trade Agreement. Canada has an
environmental prohibition on water basin transfers to protect Canadian water
from export.

A decision is pending on whether to end cod fishing in three zones off
Newfoundland and in the Gulf of St. Lawrence. The move to protect a dwindling
stock would affect almost 1,000 fishermen. Federal Fisheries Minister Robert
Thibault will make a decision before the April 1 start of the season.

LOAD-DATE: January 5, 2003

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

SERIES: THE CANADA REPORT

                    Copyright 2003 Times Publishing Company


                              30 of 302 DOCUMENTS

                         St. Petersburg Times (Florida)

               January 11, 2003 Saturday 0 South Pinellas Edition

INS program registers men from 13 nations

SOURCE: Compiled from Staff and Wire Reports

SECTION: NATIONAL; Pg. 4A

LENGTH: 559 words


Facing a Friday deadline, thousands of men from 13 mostly Arab or Muslim
countries lined up to register with U.S. immigration authorities under a
post-Sept. 11 crackdown that has alarmed civil liberties groups and stirred
fears of mass arrests.

Altaf Ali, executive director of the Florida chapter of the Council on
American-Islamic Relations, said his organization has been flooded with calls
from fearful foreigners.

"There is a high level of anxiety," Ali said. "A lot of people are calling, very
scared that they're going to register and be detained."

Stories are filtering in, Ali said, about innocent students being held for days
and detainees denied lawyers.

The council wants to help families affected by sudden detentions. But the
Immigration and Naturalization Service, Ali said, is not providing specific
information on those in custody. The organization estimates that Central Florida
is home to 80,000 to 100,000 Muslims, the largest number in the state.

Mohammad Sultan, director of the Islamic Society of Tampa Bay Area, said the
detentions amount to discrimination.

"Why are they taking them and handcuffing them?" he said.

Lisa Hinks, a British executive, clutched her baby and wept as she arrived at
the INS office in Los Angeles with her Tunisian-born husband. She said she
learned about the deadline watching television.

"Nobody told us about it, nobody," she said. "Immigration has our details. It
makes us feel like criminals."

Rakya Ahmed, who arrived with an 18-year-old friend from Yemen holding an
expired tourist visa, added: "We don't know what they are going to do with him.
I expect anything after what happened after Sept. 11."

Civil liberties advocates say the program is an inefficient way to find
terrorists and will alienate people who could help the government. Allegations
that innocent people were arrested during the first phase of the program in
December have led to demands for a Justice Department investigation.

About 7,200 men age 16 or older were expected to check in with INS offices
around the country.

While few problems were reported, 200 protesters in San Francisco chanted,
"Being Middle Eastern is not a crime," and 100 people stood behind police
barricades outside an INS building in New York.

Adam Carroll, a member of the advocacy group Islamic Circle, called the
registration a form of ethnic profiling.

"Terrorism is not just a Muslim manifestation," he said.

Last month, some 400 immigrants were arrested - mostly in Southern California -
when they came forward to be photographed, fingerprinted and questioned. Most
have been released on bail, but activists said the names and whereabouts of
dozens more remain unclear.

"I think the INS has really acknowledged that lots of mistakes were made," said
Ramona Ripston, executive director of the American Civil Liberties Union of
Southern California. "There were many flaws. They are saying that anyone who is
here legally will not be detained."

The first phase of the registration program involved immigrants from Iraq, Iran,
Libya, Sudan and Syria.

Friday was the deadline for the second phase and involved immigrants from
Afghanistan, Algeria, Lebanon, North Korea, Bahrain, Eritrea, Morocco, Oman,
Qatar, Somalia, Tunisia, the United Arab Emirates and Yemen.

The next deadline is Feb. 21 for Saudis and Pakistanis.

LOAD-DATE: January 11, 2003

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                    Copyright 2003 Times Publishing Company


                              31 of 302 DOCUMENTS

                         St. Petersburg Times (Florida)

               January 14, 2003 Tuesday 0 South Pinellas Edition

Missed INS deadline means 3 days' jail

BYLINE: SAUNDRA AMRHEIN

SECTION: CITY & STATE; Pg. 1B

LENGTH: 938 words


Two deadlines loomed for Abdullah Hatahet.

One was a class project to get his diploma from the University of South Florida.

The other was to register with the Immigration and Naturalization Service.

Hatahet pulled an all-nighter on Dec. 16 to meet the first deadline. The second,
he figured, could wait.

"I was going to go (to INS) the day of registration, but I was exhausted,"
Hatahet said Monday. "So I was going to go the next day."

The next day he was in jail - stripped of his jeans, car keys and the silver
ring given to him at the previous Saturday's graduation ceremony. In fact,
Hatahet spent the next three days in jail and now faces the possibility of being
deported.

"I didn't know how serious this was until I was detained," said the 22-year-old
Hatahet, a Syrian native who grew up in Saudi Arabia.

Free on bail, Hatahet goes to a hearing today in Bradenton, where an immigration
judge could dismiss the case or give Hatahet a few weeks to pack his things and
leave the country, according to immigration attorneys.

Hatahet is one of hundreds of Middle Eastern or North African men around the
country to be locked up in the past month after they voluntarily showed up at
immigration offices to give fingerprints and answer questions.

The new INS registration and fingerprinting requirements affect males over 16
years of age who are here on temporary visas from the countries of Iran, Iraq,
Sudan, Syria or Libya - many of them students and businessmen. They had until
Dec. 16 to register in person with the INS. Those who failed to do so are
subject to arrest, fines and deportation.

A new deadline passed Friday for men from a second group of countries -
Afghanistan, Algeria, Bahrain, Eritrea, Lebanon, Morocco, North Korea, Oman,
Qatar, Somalia, Tunisia, United Arab Emirates and Yemen. The final deadline
falls on Feb. 21 for men from Saudia Arabia and Pakistan.

Jorge Martinez, spokesman for the Justice Department, said Monday a total of
about 650 men had been temporarily detained for visa violations. Nationwide, 54
men remain in custody, wanted on criminal offenses or serious immigration
violations, he said.

He could not give detention numbers for the Tampa area.

But Hatahet  became one of them by showing up to register just one day late.
That nullified his legal status. His INS papers say he was here on a student
visa good through May 31, 2003, to study electrical engineering at USF in Tampa.

Hatahet said he also has been accepted into the USF master's degree program,
which would allow him to extend his visa. After a graduate degree, he would
return to Saudi Arabia to be near his parents and pursue a job in the wireless
phone industry.

The past four years he's lived with an aunt and uncle in Tampa.

"It would open doors for me," he said of a higher education.

Hatahet said he didn't even know about the registration requirement until a week
before the deadline. That's when he opened one of two USF e-mail accounts to see
the school's notice sent out after INS's announcement in November about the Dec.
16 deadline.

But he thought only of the 50-page reports and final exams ahead of him. He
finished his last project at 3 p.m. Monday, Dec. 16. The next day he went to the
INS, but officers didn't want to hear his excuses, he said. They moved him to
the Hillsborough County Jail on Orient Road.

The next day he was transferred to the immigration detention center in
Bradenton.

"What did I do?" he thought to himself. "I'm not a criminal. Why are they
treating me like this?"

To calm himself, he prayed five times a day, kneeling on a concrete floor. He
followed the path of the sun through window grates to find the northeast. His
Muslim faith requires him to face the northeast when praying.

"I found a corner and then just prayed there," he said. On Friday, Dec. 20,
officials granted him a $2,000 bond, which his relatives paid.

Hatahet's current attorney, John Ovink, calls the registration requirement
"utterly discriminatory" and a waste of resources.

"If I'm a terrorist, I am not going to come in to register," Ovink said.

Martinez, of the Justice Department, said he could not address Hatahet's case
specifically.

Regarding the registration requirements in general, Martinez said they fell
under "national security" priorities given that the target countries are those
where terrorist cells are known to be active and recruiting new members.

Hatahet said he understands the concern but thinks the registration methods
could be better and that students could be given better warning.

David Austell, director of the International Student and Scholar Services at
USF, said the department e-mailed notices and called students. It also posted
information on its Web site and in its offices.

The school has about 100 to 150 students affected by all three deadlines, he
said.

"I'm really sorry this happened to him," he said. "He's an excellent young man."

Muhammad Sultan, director and imam at the Islamic Society of Tampa Bay Area,
said an immigration attorney has been invited to speak there later this week.
Many of the men are nervous and don't know whether to register for fear of being
deported.

"We know we are marked people," he said.

Hatahet tries to be positive, no matter what the judge decides.

"At least I've had four years to study here," he said.

And for those about to face the next deadline? "Just register on time," he said.


At the Islamic Society of Tampa Bay Area mosque, Hatahet prays Monday afternoon
that "the judge will understand my case and I will be able to stay here and,
hopefully, continue my studies."

LOAD-DATE: January 14, 2003

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DISTRIBUTION: CITY & STATE; METRO & STATE; TAMPA & STATE

GRAPHIC: PHOTO, JOHN PENDYGRAFT, (2); Abdullah Hatahet, 22; Hatahet prays Monday
afternoon at the Islamic Society of Tampa Bay Area mosque. (ran TAMPA & STATE)

                    Copyright 2003 Times Publishing Company


                              32 of 302 DOCUMENTS

                         St. Petersburg Times (Florida)

              January 15, 2003 Wednesday 0 South Pinellas Edition

INS refuses to drop charges against student

BYLINE: SAUNDRA AMRHEIN

SECTION: CITY & STATE; Pg. 1B

LENGTH: 516 words

DATELINE: BRADENTON


Abdullah Hatahet will live another week in limbo.

Government attorneys on Tuesday refused to drop charges against the 22-year-old
University of South Florida student who was a day late last month in registering
with the Immigration and Naturalization Service.

Hatahet, who lives in Tampa with his aunt and uncle, can't pursue a master's
degree at USF. He can't work. And he may be deported to Syria, his place of
birth.

The immigration judge said his hands are tied. But he gave Hatahet until Jan. 24
to work out a solution with INS. By day's end, INS officials in Tampa said they
will take another look at his case this week.

The court hearing bewildered a frustrated Hatahet, who missed a deadline to
report to the INS. He stayed up all night to finish a class project instead and
reported to the INS on Dec. 17, a day late. He was then arrested and spent four
days in jail.

"I just want it to be over with so I can see what I can do," Hatahet said before
the hearing. "If they don't reinstate me, I can't do anything."

His attorney, John Ovink, showed the judge letters from USF, where Hatahet
obtained a bachelor's degree in electrical engineering in December. Hatahet
never violated his valid student visa and deserves to get his student status
back, Ovink said.

"But you admit he didn't register on Dec. 16?" Judge R.K. McHugh asked.

"Yes," Ovink said.

Hatahet sat quietly, dressed in a dark blue suit, mustard shirt and blue and tan
tie. He nervously stroked his shadow of a beard and squeezed his lips.

"I don't have the authority to reinstate (his student status)," McHugh said.
"There seems to me to be little relief available."

Ovink asked if the government would drop the case.

"No, judge, we're prepared to go forward," said government attorney James Grim.

The judge then suggested that Ovink talk to INS officials and ask them to
reconsider. INS officials in Tampa said later Tuesday they will take another
look at his case.

If INS won't restore Hatahet's student status, Ovink will ask the judge on Jan.
24 to allow Hatahet to leave the country voluntarily. If so, Hatahet must return
to his place of birth, Syria. After voluntarily leaving, he will be allowed to
reapply for a student visa.

But Hatahet's parents live in Saudi Arabia, where he grew up. The application
process in Syria could take a few months to a year, Hatahet said. He could stay
in that country with relatives.

Hatahet tried to be optimistic, but his frustration seeped through.

"We're just going around in circles;  that's what it feels like in court," he
said.

Hatahet chose to work on his school project rather than report to the INS on
Dec. 16, the same day that men ages 16 and older on temporary visas from Syria,
Iraq, Iran, Libya and  Sudan had to register with the INS under new guidelines.
The new rules include two other deadlines that will affect men from 15
countries, most in the Middle East and North Africa.

"It happened; I can't do anything to change anything," Hatahet said. "But the
penalty or consequences could have been less than what I had to go through."

LOAD-DATE: January 15, 2003

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DISTRIBUTION: CITY & STATE; METRO & STATE; TAMPA & STATE

GRAPHIC: PHOTO; PHOTO, Bradenton Herald; Abdullah Hatahet (ran CITY & STATE,
METRO & STATE); USF student Abdullah Hatahet leaves the INS offices in Bradenton
after appearing at a court hearing Tuesday.

                    Copyright 2003 Times Publishing Company


                              33 of 302 DOCUMENTS

                         St. Petersburg Times (Florida)

                January 24, 2003 Friday 0 South Pinellas Edition

Student denied INS reinstatement

BYLINE: SAUNDRA AMRHEIN

SECTION: CITY & STATE; Pg. 3B

LENGTH: 323 words

DATELINE: TAMPA


Local immigration officials in Tampa refused Thursday to reinstate the legal
status of a University of South Florida student who faces deportation for
missing a registration deadline by one day.

Abdullah Hatahet, 22, must wait until Jan. 27 to try to register again with the
Immigration and Naturalization Service, according to his attorney, John Ovink.

Between that date and Feb. 7, men from 18 mostly Arab and Muslim countries who
missed previous registration deadlines will have another opportunity to report
without facing a penalty for having failed to come forward, the Justice
Department announced last week.

Hatahet missed the deadline on Dec. 16 by one day because he stayed up all night
to finish a project so he could graduate from USF. When he went to the Tampa INS
office the next day, he was detained for four days and told he could be
deported. Hatahet was born in Syria, but he grew up in Saudi Arabia, where his
parents live.

The Justice Department granted a second chance after the registration program -
launched last year by Attorney General John Ashcroft to improve haphazard
tracking of foreign visitors - resulted in problems nationwide. Hundreds of men
were detained in the first phase of registration last month. None was on a
terrorist watch list.

Ovink met with INS officials in Tampa on Thursday, hoping they would reinstate
Hatahet's student status. But Ovink said their hands are tied until Jan. 27. At
an immigration court hearing in Bradenton today, Ovink will ask for a
continuance until Feb. 6.

INS officials and Hatahet couldn't be reached.

"They need to have a good reason, such as "I was sick.' An exam is not a good
reason (for INS)," Ovink said. "Right now, technically, the only way to get him
back in status is to have him register, but we can't do that until the 27th."

At that point, Ovink says, he thinks Hatahet's case will be closed. "I believe
INS will be fair," he said.

LOAD-DATE: January 24, 2003

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DISTRIBUTION: CITY & STATE; METRO & STATE

GRAPHIC: PHOTO; Abdullah Hatahet

                    Copyright 2003 Times Publishing Company


                              34 of 302 DOCUMENTS

                         St. Petersburg Times (Florida)

                  February 7, 2003 Friday 2 Late Tampa Edition

Syrian student won't be deported

BYLINE: SAUNDRA AMRHEIN

SECTION: TAMPA & STATE; Pg. 1B

LENGTH: 596 words

DATELINE: BRADENTON


Abdullah Hatahet awoke before dawn Thursday in the home he shares with his aunt
and uncle in Tampa. He placed his forehead and palms on his Muslim prayer rug,
facing east.

"Oh, lord," Hatahet prayed, "help me with my case."

Help arrived four hours later, when government attorney James Grim walked into a
Bradenton courtroom. There he announced that immigration officials will no
longer seek to deport Hatahet to Syria.

Hatahet ran afoul of the law when he missed by one day a deadline for visitors
from certain Arab and Muslim countries to register with the Immigration and
Naturalization Service. The engineering student's excuse: He had chosen to
finish a class project so he could graduate from the University of South
Florida.

When he did show up on Dec. 17, he was arrested, detained for four days and
threatened with deportation to Syria.

Hatahet, 22, emerged from the courtroom Thursday flashing a big grin.

"It was good news," he said wearing a dark blue suit. "It's been a hard journey
for me."

His attorney, John Ovink, showed a more dramatic flair.

"Yes!" Ovink yelled, throwing a fist in the air. "Justice has prevailed."

The charges against him dropped, Hatahet's file now will be sent back to the
Tampa INS office so his student status can be reinstated.

"He can go on with his life," said Ovink, who has criticized the registration
requirement. It discriminates against certain ethnic groups, he said, and won't
catch terrorists.

"If I were a member of al-Qaida, am I going to register? I don't think so,"
Ovink said.

The registration was launched last year by Attorney General John Ashcroft to
improve haphazard tracking of foreign visitors. It affected men ages 16 and
older on temporary visas from 20 mostly Arab and Muslim countries.

After hundreds of detentions in the first phase of registration in December, the
Justice Department announced last month that men who had missed previous
deadlines would get another chance to register between Jan. 27 and Feb. 7.
Officials also said they would extend the registration requirement to five more
countries.

Seven terrorist suspects have been detained since the start of the registration
process, Justice Department spokesman Jorge Martinez said. The process also
affects immigrants entering and exiting the country.

Since the end of January, 1,326 men have been temporarily detained. A total of
3,055 have been put into deportation proceedings.

Hatahet, ecstatic at the second chance to register, entered the Tampa INS
offices with Ovink on Jan. 28. He re-registered but left in despair, his case
still unsettled.

Despite the Justice Department ruling, INS officials said they needed approval
from "the highest" levels before clearing Hatahet, Ovink said.

Hatahet was prepared to throw in the towel.

"I was ready to leave the country," Hatahet said. If he returned to Syria, his
place of birth, before forcible deportation, he could apply to come back in
about a year.

He avoided that option Thursday in the courtroom of immigration Judge R.K.
McHugh.

Hatahet now plans to seek an internship or job in electrical engineering. A
temporary work visa is pending. He said he hopes to attend USF in the fall or in
January to seek a master's degree in electrical engineering. By finishing his
project in December, he obtained a bachelor's degree in the same subject. For
his class project - the deadline he did make - he got a B.

Maybe someday, Hatahet says, he'll apply for permanent residency and then
citizenship. But he'll be sure to follow the deadlines.

"I'll never miss again."

LOAD-DATE: February 7, 2003

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DISTRIBUTION: TAMPA & STATE; METRO & STATE; CITY & STATE

GRAPHIC: PHOTO; Abdullah Hatahet

                    Copyright 2003 Times Publishing Company


                              35 of 302 DOCUMENTS

                         St. Petersburg Times (Florida)

              February 15, 2003 Saturday 0 South Pinellas Edition

Deadlines extended for visitors from Arab nations to register

SOURCE: Compiled from Times Wires

SECTION: NATIONAL; Pg. 8A

LENGTH: 545 words

DATELINE: WASHINGTON; NIAGARA FALLS, Ontario; LONDON; SAN JUAN, Puerto Rico; NEW
YORK


Deadlines for thousands of male visitors from seven mainly Muslim countries to
register with U.S. immigration authorities were extended one month Friday by the
Justice Department.

About 15,000 males age 16 or older from Saudi Arabia and Pakistan will have
until March 21 to be fingerprinted, photographed and show certain documents at
local Immigration and Naturalization Service offices. The previous deadline was
Feb. 21.

Another group of about 19,000 from Bangladesh, Indonesia, Egypt, Jordan and
Kuwait will have from Feb. 24 to April 25 to register, four weeks beyond the
original March 28 deadline.

Two detained at Canada

border on bomb suspicion

NIAGARA FALLS, Ontario - Two men with Pakistani passports were detained at the
Canadian border Friday after leaving the United States with what authorities
said might be bombmaking materials.

Cpl. Michele Paradis of the Royal Canadian Mounted Police said the two walked
separately into Canada across the Rainbow Bridge from Niagara Falls, N.Y. They
were being questioned by a U.S.-Canadian border enforcement team.

A Hamilton, Ontario, TV station, CHCH, reported border officials seized a bag
containing materials including a white powder and wire cutters.

Suspect bag shuts down

London terminal briefly

LONDON - Police evacuated a terminal at Heathrow airport Friday because of a
suspect bag, but lifted the alert within 90 minutes in the second major
disruption at British airports in two days.

With security at Europe's busiest airport at a high level because of a terrorist
threat, police discovered the bag in Terminal 2, which mostly serves European
destinations, about 11:20 a.m. and emptied the building.

Officers checked and cleared the bag and allowed passengers to return about 90
minutes later.

Prisoner at U.S. base

in Cuba attempts suicide

SAN JUAN, Puerto Rico - Another terror suspect held by the United States at
Guantanamo Bay in Cuba tried to hang himself, the 16th attempted suicide there
since detentions began last year, the Pentagon said Friday.

Amnesty International has demanded an investigation into the suicide attempts,
suggesting harsh interrogations may be to blame. U.S. officials insist the
questioning is humane.

New York panel urges

revised building codes

NEW YORK - A task force assigned to evaluate the safety of the city's high-rises
after the World Trade Center collapse proposed broad changes in the building
code, including a ban on the type of trusses that were used in the 110-story
twin towers.

In its report, the task force said the adherence of fireproofing on the
lightweight "open web bar" trusses used in the trade center has been called into
question by investigations into the collapse.

The group proposed prohibiting the trusses in future buildings more than 75 feet
tall until the National Institute of Standards and Technology sets a standard
for their use.

It also urged inspectors to make sure fireproofing is not dislodged during
renovations.

PATROLLING THE EAST RIVER: Coast Guard petty officers, from left, Jeff Kropp,
Rick Griffin, Kevin Doyle and Jason Kleinknecht patrol New York's East River on
Friday. Security has been stepped up since the nation went to alert level orange
last week.

LOAD-DATE: February 15, 2003

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

SERIES: NOTEBOOK

GRAPHIC: PHOTO, Associated Press; Guard petty officers Jeff Kropp, Rick Griffin,
Kevin Doyle and Jason Kleinknecht patrol New York's East River on Friday.

TYPE: DIGEST

                    Copyright 2003 Times Publishing Company


                              36 of 302 DOCUMENTS

                         St. Petersburg Times (Florida)

                March 13, 2003 Thursday 0 South Pinellas Edition

He may be a hero, but can he stay in U.S.?

BYLINE: ROGER MILLS

SECTION: NATIONAL; Pg. 1A

LENGTH: 1230 words


Pro basketball player Kwame James helped subdue would-be shoe bomber Richard
Reid on a flight across the Atlantic in December 2001. One hundred ninety-seven
people, many of them Americans, were aboard.

Now, James, a Canadian who grew up in Trinidad, wants a work permit that would
allow him to keep playing basketball in the United States. He says he should be
granted one in part because of his heroics.

But immigration officials have said no - heroics notwithstanding.

James has only a few weeks to change their mind; his visitor's visa expires at
the end of April. He has hired a lawyer and sought help from a New York
congressman to pressure immigration authorities into allowing him to stay.

"He put himself in harm's way and prevented a horrible situation from
occurring," said Rep. Joe Crowley, D-N.Y. "It can only be a small measure of
U.S. thanks to him risking his life for so many American citizens."

Immigration authorities call James' case "compelling," but say he doesn't
deserve special treatment.

"I can understand where he is coming from, but we do have a set of immigration
laws which govern how everyone is treated and those rules are consistent
regardless of what a person has done," says Bill Strassberger, a spokesman for
the old Immigration and Naturalization Service, which became part of the
Department of Homeland Security earlier this month.

The 6-foot-8, 250-pound power forward, who played at the University of
Evansville, said immigration officials promised him a work permit during Reid's
trial, but reneged once the defendant pleaded guilty. Immigration authorities
say they were unaware of such an agreement.

James, who has played professionally in France and Argentina, aspires to compete
in the NBA. He has had brief stints in the Continental Basketball Association
and the National Basketball Developmental League.

"I'm just trying to let people know about my situation," said James, who turned
25 last Thursday and said he is running out of money. "It's not about being
deported. It's about trying to get a work permit that would allow me to stay
here, train and continue to get better so that I can have a chance at the NBA."

Michael Wildes, who has represented a number of immigrants affected by the Sept.
11 attacks and is representing James, said the government should help someone
who thwarted a terrorist act against American citizens.

"This should undoubtedly have worked out in a way that he would have been
rewarded for his heroism and uncanny bravery," said Wildes.

A number of visas allow foreigners to work in the United States. James can apply
for many of them, but he and Wildes say none will allow him the freedom to chase
his dream.

For instance, the most common work permit is the H1B visa that allows a
foreigner, sponsored by a company, to work in his/her specific field of study.
James has a degree in International Business, but he said no company will
sponsor him for such a visa knowing that he could be traveling from city to city
and team to team.

While hundreds of noncitizens are playing professional basketball in the United
States, James does not qualify for any of those visas because he has yet to sign
with a team, which could then sponsor him.

James said nonprofessionals who train in the United States, like Olympic
hopefuls, are commonly sponsored by corporate firms or external governments and
therefore have no need to work.

James said he was given the option to seek refugee status but isn't sure from
what he would be seeking asylum.

"I'm fully aware of all those things," James said. "But they were very willing
to work something out when they thought they needed me to testify against Reid
and I would have to stay in the country. As soon as they didn't need me, they
said there was nothing they could do. I just want to take care of myself."

Strassberger said immigration officials have some - but not much - latitude.

"There is some discretion that the INS has but that (has) to be in extreme
situations," Strassberger said. "If his lawyer is aware of such a process then
he should take whatever measures he can to help his client."

One such measure would be to get someone in Congress - such as Crowley - to
sponsor a bill to grant James permanent residence status.

Recently, Wildes said, immigration authorities extended relief to immigrant
spouses of two people killed in the Sept. 11 attacks.

British national Deena Gilbey lost her husband on Sept. 11 and had not finalized
her documents. Russian national Vascily Rijob, whose wife had won a Green Card
lottery, also perished in the attacks. Both faced expulsion had officials not
stepped in.

"The INS was willing to leave these people's children without any parents in the
U.S. had we not beseeched them to do what was morally right," Wildes said. "It
underscores the need to do what is morally right for Kwame."

Born in a suburb of Toronto but raised in Trinidad by parents who both have
doctorate degrees, James came to the United States at 13 and became a standout
high school player in Indianapolis.

While Bob Knight was still at Indiana University, he recruited James, but James
said he was not comfortable with Knight's personality. He chose Evansville
instead.

After four seasons with the Aces, James signed with La Union, a pro team outside
Buenos Aires, Argentina. After a year, James joined Paris-based Bondy, where he
averaged 12.3 points and 9 rebounds per game.

He was on his way home for the Christmas break on Dec. 22, 2001. Awakened from
sleep aboard American Airlines Flight 63 from Paris to Miami, James said he
heard the voices of panic and struggle about 10 rows back.

As the biggest man on the plane, James said he knew he had to help control Reid,
who was reportedly 6-foot-4 and more than 200 pounds and was attempting to
ignite explosives in his shoes.

"First of all, it wasn't just me," James said. "There were a number of people
who got to Reid before I did and deserve to be considered heroes just as well."

Once Reid was tied down, the pilot asked James to stand guard over Reid for the
next three hours as the plane made an emergency landing in Boston.

"God put me in that situation," he said. "All the Sept. 11 flights had four or
five suspects and the initial thought of everyone was Reid wasn't acting alone.
I was 23 at the time and thinking about my whole life (ending)."

Wildes said his office recently received correspondence from an American
Airlines pilot who had heard about James' plight and promised to inform the
Airline Pilots Association.

"There is great interest from the pilots and we hope to pursue that avenue,"
Wildes said.

Wildes points out that the same agency that won't issue James a work permit also
authorized student visas for a number of the Sept. 11 terrorists.

"I'm not saying you give a free pass, per se," Wildes says. "But considering
they give out 55,000 Green Cards on a random lottery every year, then certainly
someone like (Kwame) has earned a right to stay and this should be respected."

Strassberger said that is an unfair comparison.

"That's apples and oranges," he said. "That argument can be made and the INS
hears those arguments a thousand times a year. This circumstance is compelling,
but you just can't give in every day when people want you to stem the law or
ignore the law. Then we would run into serious problems."

LOAD-DATE: March 13, 2003

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: PHOTO; PHOTO, Special to the Times; Kwame James; Kwame James sits with
immigration attorney Michael Wildes and U.S. Rep. Joe Crowley.

                    Copyright 2003 Times Publishing Company


                              37 of 302 DOCUMENTS

                         St. Petersburg Times (Florida)

                March 25, 2003 Tuesday 0 South Pinellas Edition

Al-Arian's bid to leave jail faces new hurdle

BYLINE: GRAHAM BRINK

SECTION: CITY & STATE; Pg. 3B

LENGTH: 434 words

DATELINE: TAMPA


As testimony continued Monday in Sami Al-Arian's bail hearing, the question of
whether he will get out of jail before trial became even murkier.

Federal immigration officials have notified the lawyers for Al-Arian and one of
the other defendants in the case   of their intent to keep the two men in
custody, even if the magistrate grants them bail.

Al-Arian and Sameeh Hammoudeh are not citizens of the United States, unlike the
other two defendants, Hatem Fariz and Ghassan Ballut. Immigration officials can
keep noncitizens in custody to make sure they are available for potential
deportation hearings.

"That's going to be a difficult issue, but it should not affect" the judge
presiding over the current bail hearing, said Al-Arian's attorney, Nick
Matassini. "Hopefully, we won't have to go through another detention hearing in
front of the immigration judge. If we do, we will let him know what kind of a
man (Al-Arian) is as well."

In court Monday, two more character witnesses called Al-Arian, a fired
University of South Florida professor, "dynamic" and "hardworking."

"I've never seen anyone work as hard as this man," said Pilar Saad, a former
teacher at the Islamic Academy of Florida, a school Al-Arian founded. ". . . He
loves America."

The testimony came on the third day of a bail hearing that will  probably
continue until Wednesday. U.S. Magistrate Judge Mark Pizzo is hearing testimony
to determine whether to grant some or all of the men bail or keep them in
custody until their cases are resolved.

The four men were arrested last month on charges that include conspiracy to
commit racketeering and conspiracy to murder, maim or injure people on foreign
soil, including U.S. citizens.

The indictment does not accuse Al-Arian or the three other defendants of
planning or carrying out any terrorist attacks. The allegations focus on their
role in supporting and raising funds for the Palestinian Islamic Jihad, a
terrorist group.

Matassini told the judge he had six more witnesses to present. Prosecutor Walter
"Terry" Furr said he would take no more than 30 minutes to present his case for
keeping the four defendants in jail.

Outside of court, Al-Arian's family members said they  are having trouble
raising money for his defense. If the family  can't afford to pay  Matassini
beyond the bail hearing, the court could appoint a lawyer to the case.

"We're just like a lot of average Americans in this country," said Al-Arian's
wife, Nahla Al-Arian. "We don't have a lot of money."

- Graham Brink can be reached at (813) 226-3365 or brink@sptimes.com.

LOAD-DATE: March 25, 2003

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DISTRIBUTION: CITY & STATE; METRO & STATE; TAMPA & STATE

GRAPHIC: PHOTO; Sami Al-Arian

                    Copyright 2003 Times Publishing Company


                              38 of 302 DOCUMENTS

                         St. Petersburg Times (Florida)

                August 2, 2003 Saturday 0 South Pinellas Edition

Immigration gotcha game

SECTION: EDITORIAL; Pg. 12A

LENGTH: 285 words


Illegal immigrants didn't play by the rules. But in 2000, Congress decided to
allow them to seek permanent residency while remaining in the United States.
Many sought to do so. Now the government is changing the rules on them because
of the threat of terrorism.

The government is moving to deport about 13,000 Middle Eastern and Muslim men,
many of whom have applied for permanent residency under the 2000 provision. All
of the men voluntarily complied with a post-Sept. 11 registration program
targeting visitors from 25 Middle Eastern and Muslim countries considered
terrorist havens. Many of the nearly 83,000 men who registered did so under the
impression that their pending residency applications would shield them from
deportation. But there was a catch. The 2000 law allows the government to
immediately deport foreigners awaiting a status change if they draw the
attention of immigration authorities. Now the immigrant registration has become
a giant gotcha game.

To make matters worse, many of the men already would be legal residents were it
not for government delays in processing their residency applications. "Had (the
applications) been processed and adjudicated in a normal time frame, they
wouldn't have even had to register," said Marshall Fitz of the American
Immigration Lawyers Association.

Is the United States really prepared to forcefully remove immigrants for
complying with its requests? If the U.S. Department of Justice won't stay the
deportations in the spirit of the 2000 law, then it should do so for the sake of
national security. Deporting thousands of men who believed they were protected
by law could discourage foreign nationals from cooperating in the future.

LOAD-DATE: August 2, 2003

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

SERIES: EDITORIALS

TYPE: EDITORIAL

                    Copyright 2003 Times Publishing Company


                              39 of 302 DOCUMENTS

                         St. Petersburg Times (Florida)

                August 5, 2003 Tuesday 0 South Pinellas Edition

12 of 19 Cubans caught aboard boat are sent back

SOURCE: Compiled from Staff and Wire Reports

SECTION: CITY & STATE; Pg. 5B

LENGTH: 667 words

DATELINE: MIAMI; ORLANDO; HOBE SOUND


Twelve Cubans among a group of 19 intercepted at sea while trying to reach
Florida July 28 were returned to Cuba on Monday, while seven have been sent to
the U.S. Naval Base at Guantanamo Bay on the island.

Meanwhile, 53 Cubans who landed in the Florida Keys were released into the
community from Krome Detention Center this weekend, immigration officials said.
The 32 men, 19 women, one boy and one girl were spotted Thursday on Key Largo.

The two cases show the differences in the United States' "wet-foot, dry-foot"
immigration policy.

Cubans who land in the United States are admitted, but those intercepted at sea
usually are returned to Cuba. If onboard interviews turn up legitimate asylum
claims, however, migrants are sometimes sent to Guantanamo until a third country
is found to accept them. That's the case of the seven sent to the naval base.

Three Republican lawmakers from Florida had urged the Bush administration to
admit all 19 from the intercepted boat, calling them dissidents who could face
retribution if returned to Cuba.

Judge supports state worker's retaliation claim

A former human resources manager with the state Board of Administration, the
agency that runs the state employee pension fund, suffered retaliation after she
reported that female workers were not treated as well as men, a federal judge
ruled late last month.

Debby Minot sued the state last year, claiming she was put on administrative
leave after she filed a complaint with the Human Relations Commission saying
women at the agency were sexually harassed and paid less than men.

Minot's other claims for damages and back pay were denied. Minot said last week
she is satisfied with the judge's ruling. A spokeswoman for the state Board of
Administration could not be reached.

Priest charged with soliciting prostitution

ORLANDO - A Roman Catholic priest was charged with soliciting a prostitute,
sheriff's officials said Monday.

The Rev. Thomas Vellappallil, 40, was accused late Friday of offering an
undercover police officer $20 for oral sex, and committing a lewd act, according
to the Orange County Sheriff's Office. He was released on $750 bail.

Vellappallil, an associate pastor for two years at Good Shepherd Catholic Church
in Orlando, has been removed from the ministry pending the outcome of the
investigation, said a spokeswoman for the Orlando diocese.

Greenpeace misses court

appearance on indictment

MIAMI - A judge issued a bench warrant Monday for Greenpeace when the
environmental group and its attorney missed their first scheduled court
appearance on an indictment charging an illegal boarding of a cargo ship.

U.S. Magistrate Judge William Turnoff agreed to stay the warrant calling for the
arrest of a Greenpeace representative until today. Prosecutors charged that the
group boarded the ship under the mistaken belief that it held contraband Amazon
mahogany.

Calls to a spokeswoman for the Washington-based group were not returned.

Greenpeace was indicted two weeks ago on charges that it illegally boarded the
APL Jade before it docked in Miami last year.

The charges carry a possible $20,000 fine.

Would-be robbers follow, shoot bingo winner

HOBE SOUND - A woman who won thousands of dollars playing bingo was followed
home by would-be robbers who shot her when she refused to turn over the money,
sheriff's officials said.

Pamela Anderson, 39, won $5,900 at bingo Sunday night in Riviera Beach before
leaving with a friend for her home in Hobe Sound, about 24 miles north. A car
carrying two men and two women trailed them. When Anderson arrived home, one man
pointed a gun at her and told her to open her car door and give him the money.

When she refused, he shot her in her car. The other car then drove off.
Anderson, wounded in the abdomen, was taken by helicopter to St. Mary's Medical
Center in West Palm Beach and was listed in critical condition Monday. Her
passenger was unhurt.

- Staff and wire reports

LOAD-DATE: August 5, 2003

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DISTRIBUTION: CITY & STATE; METRO & STATE; TAMPA & STATE

SERIES: AROUND THE STATE

TYPE: DIGEST

                    Copyright 2003 Times Publishing Company


                              40 of 302 DOCUMENTS

                         St. Petersburg Times (Florida)

                  August 9, 2003 Saturday 2 Late Tampa Edition

38 foreign-born sex offenders arrested in statewide sweep

SECTION: TAMPA & STATE; Pg. 3B

LENGTH: 320 words

DATELINE: TAMPA


Bureau of Immigration and Customs Enforcement agents arrested 38 foreign-born
sex offenders across the state this week as part of a nationwide effort to
deport foreign nationals convicted of exploiting children.

Seven were arrested in Tampa and are being held at an INS facility in Bradenton,
said Robert J. Hines, associate special agent-in-charge for ICE in Tampa. They
will go before an immigration judge in the next two weeks, he said.

The arrests are part of a Department of Homeland Security initiative, dubbed
Operation Predator.

Agents cross-check criminal records with immigration data to identify "aliens
who have violated the law and have no right to remain in this country," ICE
interim Special Agent-in-Charge Steven J. Trent said in a statement.

Those arrested in Tampa hail from a handful of countries - including Vietnam,
Mexico, Cuba and Canada.

Their names won't be released, agents said, because they may or may not be
deported.

Carrollwood man fatally shoots self during standoff

TAMPA - A Carrollwood man shot himself in the head after a four-hour standoff
with police Friday.

At 11:30 a.m., sheriff's deputies responded to a report that Brian Thomas
Paulson wrote checks on his mother's account without her knowledge or
permission, deputies said.

When deputies arrived, Paulson displayed a handgun, threatened to commit suicide
and barricaded himself inside a bedroom of the house at 6202 Boone Drive  in the
Cumberland Manors subdivision, officials said.

Officers from the sheriff's Emergency Response Team spent several hours trying
to talk the man out of harming himself, but after saying he didn't want to go
back to jail, Paulson shot himself at 4:05 p.m., deputies said.

State Department of Corrections records show Paulson was incarcerated from June
16, 1998,  to December 25, 1999,   on theft and related charges.

Paulson, 27, was pronounced dead at the scene.

LOAD-DATE: August 9, 2003

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

SERIES: BRIEFLY

TYPE: DIGEST

                    Copyright 2003 Times Publishing Company


                              41 of 302 DOCUMENTS

                         St. Petersburg Times (Florida)

             September 10, 2003 Wednesday 0 South Pinellas Edition

Iranian man sues after being jailed

BYLINE: BRADY DENNIS

SECTION: CITY & STATE; Pg. 3B

LENGTH: 494 words

DATELINE: TAMPA


A 32-year-old Iranian man sued the federal government Tuesday, claiming he has
been detained in a Manatee County jail for nearly a year with no criminal
charges and no bond hearing.

Masoud Hosseini, of St. Petersburg, is seeking release from jail or at the very
least, a bond hearing.

""Detaining an individual without allowing him his day in court is not what our
country is about, nor what our country needs in order to protect our national
security," said Martin Schwartz, Hosseini's attorney.

Hosseini came to the United States in August 1995 on a student visa. In March
1999, he was arrested in California on charges of overstaying his visa and of
violating his student status.

A court there released him on $25,000 bond.

Later that year, he came to St. Petersburg and married Joyce Graffouliere. Their
fourth wedding anniversary is today.

The couple opened Tropicana Grocery & Produce at 1618 Central Ave. in St.
Petersburg. Hosseini applied for asylum in the United States, and a hearing was
held on the issue in July 2001.

On Oct. 2, 2002, a court denied the application and ordered Hosseini deported to
Iran. The same day, the federal Immigration and Naturalization Service revoked
Hosseini's bond and arrested him. He has been in custody in a Bradenton jail
ever since.

In January, an immigration judge denied Hosseini bond, finding that he had
engaged in terrorist activities through his support of two terrorist groups -
the Mujahedin-e Khalq and the National Council of Resistance.

Hosseini's defense is this: He says he participated in a 1997 demonstration in
Denver sponsored by the NCR, as well as another demonstration in New York in
1998.

During the New York demonstration, he sold some newspapers to help a vendor but
did not realize until later the proceeds might be linked to Mujahedin-e Khalq.

Hosseini says he opposes the Iranian regime but does not support terrorist
organizations or violence as a means to overthrow that government.

Tuesday's suit claims that Hosseini has ""never been charged with any crime in
the United States," that there is ""no showing" he is related to any criminal
group, that he is not ""a threat to society or national security" and that he
has ""never presented any flight risk."

It also states that Hosseini has lost 30 pounds while in custody ""due to stress
and anxiety" and that the incarceration has ""caused a serious strain on his
marriage."

Additionally, in a sworn affidavit, Hosseini's wife writes of him as a "gentle
man who poses no threat to anyone."

Tuesday's suit names as defendants Attorney General John Ashcroft, Homeland
Security director Tom Ridge and other federal officials.

"I am confident that if a federal court judge takes a close look at the
immigration statutes, the Patriot Act and the U.S. Constitution, he shall find
that Mr. Hosseini must be entitled to a bond hearing," Schwartz said.

"The point of this is that such a detention violates his rights."

LOAD-DATE: September 10, 2003

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DISTRIBUTION: CITY & STATE; METRO & STATE; TAMPA & STATE

                    Copyright 2003 Times Publishing Company


                              42 of 302 DOCUMENTS

                         St. Petersburg Times (Florida)

               September 21, 2003 Sunday 0 South Pinellas Edition

To clear immigrant backlog, entry rules loosened

BYLINE: JIM FOX

SECTION: NATIONAL; Pg. 9A

LENGTH: 680 words


In a move that addresses complaints from potential immigrants, Canada is easing
its rules for people entering the country. The move aims to clear a backlog of
100,000 applicants.

A restrictive immigration law came into effect last year requiring backlogged
applicants to qualify under the new rules. Immigration Minister Denis Coderre
said the applicants will be allowed to apply under former rules that place fewer
barriers to entry.

Canada allows between 220,000 and 245,000 people to immigrate each year. New
targets are to be set in about a month.

"These proposed changes reflect the principles of fairness, openness and
flexibility, which form the core of Canada's immigration program," Coderre said.


Ontario feels storm

The stormy remnants of Hurricane Isabel blew into southern Ontario on Friday,
dumping several inches of rain and bringing high winds that cut power to some
areas.

Much of the strength of the storm dissipated before it crossed the Great Lakes
and followed a line north from Toronto before turning east toward Quebec.

Most schools remained open and there were only minimal delays at Toronto's
international airport.

Peter Bowyer of the National Hurricane Center in Halifax said the effects of
Isabel in Canada were no worse than those of a thunderstorm.

News in brief

+ Canada's prime minister-in-waiting, Paul Martin, says he would lead a
tight-fisted government that lowers taxes and reduces debt. In his first major
economic speech since leaving the Cabinet last year, Martin said he wants the
national debt to fall drastically. He is the front-runner to succeed retiring
Jean Chretien early next year. Chretien believes his successor should favor
social spending over tax cuts.

+ The Canadian Alliance continues its fight to block expected approval of
same-sex marriages. The party narrowly lost a vote in the House of Commons on a
motion to preserve the traditional definition of marriage. Now, the alliance is
seeking support for a bill calling on Parliament to define marriage as the union
of "one man and one woman."

+ The federal Conservatives and the right-wing Canadian Alliance are again
talking about forming a union to battle the ruling Liberals in the next
election, expected in about a year. Conservative Leader Peter MacKay said,
however, no one should expect a "shotgun wedding."

+ The Liberals under Leader Dalton McGuinty have taken a double-digit lead in
public opinion polls as Ontario voters prepare to elect a new government on Oct.
2. Conservative Premier Ernie Eves continued his verbal attacks on McGuinty,
accusing all Liberals of being soft on crime.

Facts and figures

Canada's dollar rose to 74.16 U.S. cents Friday. The U.S. dollar dropped to
$1.3484 Canadian, before bank exchange fees.

The Bank of Canada's key interest rate is unchanged at 2.75 percent and the
prime lending rate is 4.5 percent.

Canadian stock exchanges were higher Friday, with the Toronto index at 7,610
points and the Canadian Venture Exchange 1,378 points.

Lotto 6-49: (Wednesday) 6, 11, 13, 30, 31 and 37; bonus 34. (Sept. 13) 12, 21,
26, 37, 43 and 49; bonus 25.

Regional briefs

+ Manitoba is the sixth Canadian province to sign up for a federal farm aid
package. The policy includes disaster relief for such things as drought and the
mad cow crisis. Saskatchewan and three other holdout provinces say the aid
offers farmers less than previous programs.

+ Alberta's government wants to cap auto insurance rates and limit insurance
company profits. Rob Renner, who heads a provincial auto insurance review, said
proposed legislation would force companies to open their books so the province
can determine a "fair price" for premiums and profits.

+ The Northwest Atlantic Fisheries Organization has agreed to drastically reduce
the quota for Greenland halibut, also known as turbot, in international waters
off Canada's East Coast. The 18 member countries agreed to take fewer fish as a
conservation measure. Overfishing in the area sparked the so-called "turbot war"
between Canada and Spain in 1995.

LOAD-DATE: September 21, 2003

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

SERIES: THE CANADA REPORT

                    Copyright 2003 Times Publishing Company


                              43 of 302 DOCUMENTS

                         St. Petersburg Times (Florida)

                  November 7, 2003 Friday 2 Late Tampa Edition

Her wait is over

SECTION: TAMPA & STATE; Pg. 1B

LENGTH: 64 words


Tarulata Patel, 42, center, of Tarpon Springs waits with her father, Ukabhai
Patel, 75, left, and her immigration lawyer, John Miotke, Thursday at the United
States Citizenship and Immigration Services office in Tampa. Patel is mentally
retarded, and law changes only recently have made it possible for her and others
like her to become citizens.

PLEASE SEE STORY, PAGE 3B

LOAD-DATE: November 7, 2003

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: PHOTO, CHRIS ZUPPA; Tarulata Patel, 42, of Tarpon Springs waits with
her father, Ukabhai Patel, 75, and her immigration lawyer, John Miotke, Thursday
at the United States Citizenship and Immigration Services office in Tampa.

TYPE: STAND ALONE ART

                    Copyright 2003 Times Publishing Company


                              44 of 302 DOCUMENTS

                         St. Petersburg Times (Florida)

               November 8, 2003 Saturday 0 South Pinellas Edition

Rapper Slick Rick released

SECTION: CITY & STATE; Pg. 2B

LENGTH: 314 words

DATELINE: BRADENTON


Rapper Ricky "Slick Rick" Walters was released from jail Friday, more than 17
months after U.S. immigration officials moved to deport the British-born star.

Reached by telephone in his lawyer's car, Walters told the Associated Press he
was relieved to be freed and intended to head home to his wife and children in
New York.

"I am fine," Walters said. "It feels good, fresh air, a new beginning."

Walters' release was cleared a week ago by federal Judge Kimba Wood, who ruled
the Board of Immigration Appeals should never have reversed its earlier decision
that Walters could stay in the United States despite a criminal conviction.

"Matrix' premiere draws well

While not setting any single-day domestic records, R-rated The Matrix
Revolutions posted impressive numbers for its worldwide premiere Wednesday. The
third and (presumably) final installment of The Matrix series grossed
$24.3-million domestically for a per-venue average of $6,942 in 3,502 theaters.

The movie also grossed $18.8-million in 94 other countries, for a total of
$43.1-million.

Star Wars: Episode I - The Phantom Menace remains the highest-grossing Wednesday
opening with $28.5-million in May 1999.

This was, however, the first time a movie was released at the same hour around
the world. Warner Bros. took that step to prevent pirated copies from appearing
in international markets.

Douglas, Zeta-Jones reach settlement with magazine

The Michael Douglas- Catherine Zeta-Jones jihad against England's Hello!
magazine has finally reached closure.

The High Court in London Friday ordered Hello! to pay the Hollywood power couple
$24,220 in damages for publishing guerrilla photos of the couple's wedding. The
mag must also pay $1.7-million to the owner of rival OK!, which had a
$1.67-million exclusive deal for pictures from the actors' wedding.

LOAD-DATE: November 8, 2003

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DISTRIBUTION: CITY & STATE; METRO & STATE; TAMPA & STATE

SERIES: 2B; IN THE NEWS

GRAPHIC: PHOTO; "Slick Rick" Walters

TYPE: DIGEST

                    Copyright 2003 Times Publishing Company


                              45 of 302 DOCUMENTS

                         St. Petersburg Times (Florida)

                April 8, 2004 Thursday 0 South Pinellas Edition

The evolution of the naturalization process

BYLINE: DONNA MURRAY ALLEN

SECTION: FLORIDIAN; Pg. 2E

LENGTH: 737 words


First of two parts.

Since Sept. 11, 2001, the federal government has more closely scrutinized the
arrival of foreigners. The agency once known as the Immigration and
Naturalization Service is now called the Bureau of U.S. Citizenship and
Immigration Services, and it is under the auspices of the Department of Homeland
Security. This is probably the most profound change to take place in immigration
and naturalization since the formation of an immigration service in 1906. (Go to
uscis.gov and click on "About Us and FOIA.")

The first naturalization act was passed by Congress in 1790. Naturalization is
the process by which a foreign-born person becomes an American citizen. But it
wasn't until 1882 that the first immigration law was passed; up to then, there
had been no need to stop the flow of foreigners into the country. There was
plenty of room for everyone.

The first real attempt to federally regulate immigration came with the formation
of the Office of the Superintendent of Immigration in 1891. It eventually became
apparent that more controls were needed over naturalization as well. The Bureau
of Immigration and Naturalization was formed in 1906. Guidelines governing
naturalization were put into place. The law also prohibited anyone who did not
possess immigration papers from becoming a naturalized citizen.

Before 1906, the naturalization process was fast and loose. Citizenship papers
could be filed in virtually any court having common law jurisdiction, including
local, state, federal and even admiralty courts. The filing became part of that
day's docket, wedged between the other items scheduled to come before the court
that day.

The chaos that has always surrounded immigration and naturalization has made
obtaining the citizenship papers of ancestors among the most daunting tasks in
genealogy.

The naturalization process was supposed to evolve in three steps. The person
first filed a Declaration of Intention. After a period of time, generally five
years, a Petition for Naturalization was filed.

Once the petition was granted, a Certificate of Naturalization was issued. The
declaration and petition contain the genealogical data.

Not all immigrants became citizens. Some filed the initial paperwork and didn't
complete the process. Others began the process in one state and finished it in
another, which complicated matters because each state had its own way of doing
things.

Government policies gummed up the works. From 1790 to 1922, wives of naturalized
men automatically became citizens, and from 1790 to 1940, children under age 21
automatically became citizens when their fathers were naturalized.

Alien women who married American men automatically became citizens; that was
called derivative citizenship. Names of wives and children were seldom included
in the paperwork.

Through the years, laws were passed to speed up the naturalization process for
those who served in the military. (You'll find an index to naturalization of
soldiers during World War I at the National Archives and Records Administration
in Washington, D.C. Go to  http://www.archives.gov.)

Sometimes there is no documentation. When the federal government annexed
territories such as Florida in 1819, Texas in 1845 and Arizona in 1848,
inhabitants became citizens. Before the Revolutionary War, individuals who came
to the colonies from the British Empire were merely moving to another part of
their country.

Thus, the key factor in determining where to look for records is 1906.  Most
important, the federal government began keeping copies of naturalization
records. These files contain a copy of the Declaration of Intention, the
Petition for Naturalization and the Certificate of Naturalization.

Read past Donna Murray Allen columns online at  http://www.sptimes.com. Type
"Donna Murray Allen" in the search box. You can write to Allen c/o Floridian,
St. Petersburg Times, P.O. Box 1121, St. Petersburg, FL 33731, or e-mail her at
rootscolumn@yahoo.com.

Her Web site:  http://www.rootsdetective.com includes information on classes and
lectures. Allen welcomes your questions about genealogy.

LOAD-DATE: April 8, 2004

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

SERIES: GENEALOGY

TYPE: COLUMN; SERIES

                    Copyright 2004 Times Publishing Company


                              46 of 302 DOCUMENTS

                         St. Petersburg Times (Florida)

                              July 25, 2004 Sunday

Treating journalists like terrorists

SECTION: PERSPECTIVE; Pg. 2P

LENGTH: 509 words


As the political convention season gets under way journalists from around the
world are expected to converge on Boston and New York City. That is, unless they
are detained at the airport by immigration officials, body searched, held in
shackles and deported.

Within the last 18 months, at least 18 foreign journalists have been seized and
expelled from American airports. Foreign journalists apparently need a special
press visa to enter the United States, a requirement that has existed in law
since 1952, but has just recently been enforced.

Many journalists from friendly, non-visa nations who have repeatedly entered the
country in the past are unaware of this extra paperwork. For those traveling
into the Los Angeles International Airport in particular, the result of this
honest error has been treatment more akin to terror suspects.

In May, freelance journalist Elena Lappin was stopped after flying from London
to Los Angeles. She was on assignment from the British daily the Guardian. But
because she lacked the special visa she was not allowed to formally enter the
country.

After being interrogated by immigration officials for hours, her luggage and
body were searched. She was then handcuffed, stuffed in a security van and
driven to a detention facility where she was locked in a cell with a steel bench
about a foot wide for a bed. The lights were on all night and no pillow or
blanket was provided. Lappin says she spent 26 hours in detention until she was
deported.

Her harrowing tale raises the question: Is this an effective way to spend our
civil defense dollars? Lappin was missing a document that no other temporary
visitor with a British passport needed; she obviously posed no threat to
American security. Putting aside the basic issue of whether an open society
should have special conditions for foreign journalists, there was no excuse for
the kind of mistreatment she suffered.

Unfortunately, she is not alone. A number of journalists who came through the
Los Angeles airport have had similar experiences, suggesting that officials
there are particularly intent on doling out harsh treatment to foreign
journalists.

Various press groups have complained to the State Department and the Department
of Homeland Security, which now is in charge of most immigration functions. The
outcry has resulted in some changes in the policy. Port directors now have the
discretion to allow journalists to enter the country without proper visas one
time. But that is not enough. The special visa requirement should be scrapped.

There are currently 27 nations from which visitors are allowed into the United
States for up to 90 days for business or pleasure without a visa. Journalists
from these countries should not be held to a higher standard.

There is no reasonable justification for the distinction. In a nation where
freedom of the press is a constitutional right, journalists from other nations
should expect to be welcomed into our free and open society, not slapped in
shackles and treated like public enemy No. 1.

LOAD-DATE: July 25, 2004

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

SERIES: EDITORIALS

TYPE: EDITORIAL

                    Copyright 2004 Times Publishing Company


                              47 of 302 DOCUMENTS

                         St. Petersburg Times (Florida)

                 August 6, 2004 Friday 0 South Pinellas Edition

Piling it on the police

SECTION: EDITORIAL; Pg. 14A

LENGTH: 492 words


Our local police officers work in communities to serve and protect, not to waste
time and money memorizing and enforcing our nation's complex immigration laws.
Forcing immigration enforcement responsibilities on local and state agencies
risks creating greater divisions between immigrant communities and the police
who work with them.

The CLEAR Act of 2003 would require local law enforcement to "investigate,
apprehend or remove aliens." States that don't cooperate will lose federal money
used for keeping the offenders in jail, according to the bill, which was
introduced last year in the House and now is sitting in committee. Florida
netted $162-million from these funds between 1997 and 2003.

The bill is designed to help find and deport about 80,000 illegal immigrants who
have been convicted of violent crimes and released back into the community. The
bill's sponsor, Rep. Charlie Norwood, R-Ga., says these immigrant offenders are
evading justice because only 2,000 Immigration and Customs Enforcement agents
are looking for 400,000 illegal immigrants. That's a serious problem, but making
local police responsible for such searches is not the solution.

Local law enforcement is already doing its primary job - that's how these 80,000
criminals got records in the first place. The problem is that these immigrant
criminals are cycled back into society because the federal ICE agents can't
manage to find and target them for deportation upon their release.

The CLEAR Act would provide $2.5-billion to fund extra training and hire more
local officers to enforce immigration laws. Why not send this extra $2.5-billion
to ICE? After all, ICE was established and equipped to deal with just these
types of cases. If it's understaffed, then we should fund additional positions
before training other agencies to do the job ICE was designed to do.

Local law enforcement officials say they need an open-door policy with people in
the immigrant community if officers are to battle issues such as human
trafficking and abusive work environments. This trust is tested when people in
the immigrant community see local police officers being used to send their
neighbors to jail and then out of the country.

Local law enforcement officials, including Clearwater police Chief Sid Klein and
Hillsborough Sheriff Cal Henderson, recently expressed concern about taking on
the added responsibility of immigration law enforcement. The Sheriff's
Department in Chandler, Ariz., learned in the late 1990s the perils of enforcing
these laws. The department damaged its relationship with the immigrant community
during a five-day community sweep in July 1997 aimed at jailing illegal
immigrants. The backlash cost the city $705,000 including lawyers' and
investigators' fees, and the city changed policy to prohibit city police from
doing the job of federal immigration officials. Local police already have more
to do than they can handle.

LOAD-DATE: August 6, 2004

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

SERIES: EDITORIALS

TYPE: EDITORIAL

                    Copyright 2004 Times Publishing Company


                              48 of 302 DOCUMENTS

                         St. Petersburg Times (Florida)

               September 22, 2004 Wednesday 2 Late Tampa Edition

Relative of Al-Arian indicted

BYLINE: GRAHAM BRINK; SAUNDRA AMRHEIN

SECTION: TAMPA & STATE; Pg. 1B

LENGTH: 1124 words

DATELINE: TAMPA


After a seven-year legal battle involving the use of secret evidence,
immigration authorities deported Mazen Al-Najjar to Lebanon in 2002.

Now federal prosecutors want him back, according to an indictment released
Tuesday.

Al-Najjar is the latest defendant named in a terrorism case that includes his
brother-in-law, former University of South Florida professor Sami Al-Arian.

The updated  indictment accuses Al-Najjar of helping Al-Arian run the North
American arm of the Palestinian Islamic Jihad, a terrorist group considered
responsible for more than 100 deaths.

Al-Najjar also faces perjury charges for allegedly swearing during an
immigration court hearing that he was not affiliated with the PIJ, did not know
any PIJ members and did not provide any support to the group.

Al-Najjar's former attorneys were perplexed about why federal prosecutors would
file the charges now. The allegations stem mostly from the 1990s.

"It absolutely makes no sense to me why it would take so many years to indict
someone," said Martin Schwartz, one of Al-Najjar's former attorneys. "That is a
mystery to me."

Federal prosecutors had no comment on the new indictment. Prosecutors are
allowed to update indictments, including adding charges and defendants.

The new indictment revises the one filed in February 2003 that accused Al-Arian
and seven other men of supporting, promoting and raising funds for the PIJ.
Neither the original indictment nor the new one accuses Al-Arian or Al-Najjar of
carrying out any terrorist attacks.

Over the past decade, agents taped thousands of telephone conversations - most
of them in Arabic - while they had Al-Arian and the other men under
surveillance. Like the original indictment, the new one does not quote any of
those tapes at any length. None of the tapes have been made public. The defense
attorneys have begun questioning the accuracy of what the prosecutors say are on
the tapes.

For the most part, the charges against the men remain the same. The new
indictment provides additional details about how money the men allegedly raised
was transferred between various bank accounts. It also lists more examples of
violence carried out by the PIJ, including a 1989 attack in Israel that killed
U.S. citizen Rita Levine and more than 10 other people.

Al-Arian also faces an additional charge of obstruction of justice. He is
accused of providing false information at his bail hearing about the PIJ's role
in the United States and about not knowing that Al-Najjar and others were
members of the group.

Al-Arian, who is accused of being the leader of the North American faction of
the PIJ, has denied all the charges. Like the other defendants, he has said that
he is being prosecuted for holding pro-Palenstinian views.

"We don't understand why it has taken so long for the government to get its case
in order," said Linda Moreno, one of Al-Arian's attorneys.

A former University of South Florida instructor, Al-Najjar was in jail on and
off for about five years, being held on secret evidence that the government said
linked him to terrorism.

Although never charged with a crime, he overstayed his student visa and was
deported in August 2002 in what became a 48-hour, problem-plagued international
odyssey.

At a cost of $139,000, the federal government chartered a private jet once used
by pop star Britney Spears to fly the stateless Palestinian from Florida to
Beirut. A month later he was deported from Lebanon to an undisclosed location.
His wife joined him with their three children after she, too, was deported.

A year ago, family members said the Al-Najjars were living in "a nice Arab
country" where Al-Najjar worked as a translator despite diabetes-related health
problems.

The original indictment referred to Al-Najjar as "Unindicted Co-conspirator
Twelve." The indictment stated that No. 12 advised Jihad leaders about
organizational structure, finances and its relationship to other terrorist
groups. The updated indictment formally puts a name to the number.

"The real question is, why are they doing it?" asked Schwartz, who lost contact
with Al-Najjar after his deportation.

Nahla Al-Arian, who is Sami Al-Arian's wife and Al-Najjar's sister, said the
government is trying to defame the family's fight against the use of secret
evidence. She questioned why prosecutors didn't charge Al-Najjar when he was
still in their custody.

She said she has not spoken to her brother about the indictment, and would only
repeat that he and his family are safe in the same Arab country where they were
living a year ago. He still works as a translator.

"This case becomes more and more political," said Nahla Al-Arian, who lives in
Tampa. "That's why they brought my brother into this case. They don't have any
case. They want to defame my brother and hurt my husband."

Bill West, who helped investigate Al-Najjar's case, said the indictment was
justified, if a bit late.

"Notwithstanding Al-Najjar being deported, which was the best action the U.S.
government could take at the time, his indictment validates years of hard work
by investigators and prosecutors," said West, the retired chief of the National
Security Section for the former Immigration and Naturalization Service in Miami.
"Under better circumstances, the indictment would have come before the
deportation."

Al-Najjar's indictment, though, might have less to do with Al-Najjar and more to
do with Al-Arian, theorized former federal prosecutor Steve Crawford.
Prosecutors might be hoping to provide jurors with a more complete picture of
the alleged conspiracy, he said.

Evidence linked to unindicted co-conspirators can carry less credibility,
Crawford said. Indicting Al-Najjar, even if he is not brought to Tampa for
trial, could make the entire case against Al-Arian appear stronger.

"Even if some of the evidence against another defendant doesn't involve Sami,
the more mud you can throw in his direction, the better some of it will stick,"
he said.

The prosecutors could also be buying itself more time, Crawford said. Al-Arian,
Sameeh Hammoudeh, Ghassan Ballut and Hatem Fariz are scheduled for trial in
January. The men have denied all the charges and haven't given any indication
that they would be willing to testify against the others. With a new defendant
named, defense attorneys could feel forced to ask for more time to prepare for
trial.

Federal prosecutors would not say if Al-Najjar had been arrested or if they had
any concrete plans to have him returned to the United States any time soon. Four
other men named as defendants in the case have not been arrested or deported,
including Bashir Nafi, an academic based in London.

The Associated Press contributed to this report.

LOAD-DATE: September 22, 2004

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DISTRIBUTION: TAMPA & STATE; CITY & STATE; METRO & STATE

GRAPHIC: PHOTO; Mazen Al-Najjar

                    Copyright 2004 Times Publishing Company


                              49 of 302 DOCUMENTS

                         St. Petersburg Times (Florida)

             February 21, 2001, Wednesday, 0 South Pinellas Edition

Testimony describes scrutiny of Al-Najjar

BYLINE: SUSAN ASCHOFF

SECTION: CITY & STATE; Pg. 3B

LENGTH: 638 words



The FBI used electronic surveillance and intelligence reports from other
countries to pursue Mazen Al-Najjar as a suspected terrorist, according to a
recently released excerpt from an agent's secret testimony.

What the spying uncovered remains a mystery.

The FBI agent testified in private before immigration judge R. Kevin McHugh late
last year, after McHugh first took testimony in open court on whether Al-Najjar
should be released on bail. The former University of South Florida teacher was
jailed for more than three years without criminal charges as a security threat,
and he has become a national figure in the growing opposition to secret evidence
against immigrants.

Without commenting on the significance of the agent's classified evidence,
McHugh found that a summary of its contents for Al-Najjar was insufficient.
McHugh ruled that Al-Najjar could not defend himself.

McHugh ordered Al-Najjar freed, and he was released Dec. 15. The summary of the
evidence never was shared.

So Al-Najjar's attorneys asked for it, writing to the Executive Office for
Immigration Review, a division of the Justice Department that oversees
immigration judges and appeals. On Friday, they received 17 pages.

"It doesn't give us any new information. I don't find it particularly useful,"
attorney Joseph Hohenstein said Tuesday. "The focus is the same as it was in
open court."

Attorneys for the Immigration and Naturalization Service did not return calls
seeking comment.

For the most part, the newly released documents repeat the U.S. government's
accusations that Al-Najjar is a fundraiser and leader of the Palestinian Islamic
Jihad. The Damascus-based group is on the State Department's list of designated
terrorist organizations and has claimed responsibility for bombings in the
Middle East.

The 17 pages rejected by McHugh include a one-page summary and a 16-page excerpt
of the FBI agent's testimony to the judge.

The summary is about six sentences long. It says members of the Palestinian
Islamic Jihad reside in and raise funds in the United States, and that "Mazen
Al-Najjar has held a leadership position in the PIJ with a significant role in
the financial affairs."

The extract of the agent's testimony says the FBI had probable cause to think
Al-Najjar is an "agent of a foreign power" and got a court order for
surveillance and a national security letter to examine his bank accounts.

The 16 pages are marked in more than 30 places with the word "redact" - the
removal of a sentence or paragraph legally exempted from release for
investigatory or security reasons. There are six redacts, for example, under the
heading "Al-Najjar's Leadership Position in the PIJ."

Al-Najjar is from Gaza but has lived in the United States for about 20 years. He
was arrested in 1997 for overstaying a student visa, then was denied bail by
McHugh after the judge heard secret evidence of his "association with the
Palestinian Islamic Jihad."

Until this week, the half-sentence summary of evidence against him was the only
glimpse of the classified case Al-Najjar had ever received.

In the early 1990s, Al-Najjar worked at a USF-affiliated think tank known as
WISE with Ramadan Abdullah Shallah. Shallah left Tampa and became head of the
Palestinian Islamic Jihad in October 1995. In immigration court, Al-Najjar's
attorneys successfully rebutted allegations that funds in his personal accounts
and his work at WISE supported terrorists, McHugh decided. McHugh, under orders
from a federal judge to ensure that Al-Najjar's due process rights were
protected, then heard the secret evidence, but found the 17 pages lacking and
ordered him freed.

Al-Najjar is appealing his ordered deportation, which is pending before the 11th
U.S. Circuit Court of Appeals after a three-judge panel heard arguments last
month.


LOAD-DATE: February 22, 2001

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DISTRIBUTION: CITY & STATE; METRO & STATE; TAMPA & STATE

GRAPHIC: BLACK AND WHITE PHOTO; COLOR PHOTO; Mazen Al-Najjar (ran CITY & STATE,
METRO & STATE); Mazen Al-Najjar (ran TAMPA & STATE)

                    Copyright 2001 Times Publishing Company


                              50 of 302 DOCUMENTS

                         St. Petersburg Times (Florida)

                March 30, 2001, Friday, 0 South Pinellas Edition

Humanity to immigration policy

SECTION: EDITORIAL; EDITORIALS; Pg. 16A

LENGTH: 427 words



U.S. Sen. Bob Graham and U.S. Rep. Lincoln Diaz-Balart have teamed to restore a
measure of humanity to our immigration policies. The two Florida lawmakers are
sponsoring legislation that would restore protection under Medicaid and the
state-run Children's Health Insurance Program or CHIP, to legal immigrant
children. Their bills would reverse one of the harshest provisions of the 1996
immigration overhaul, which barred even legal immigrants from using government
insurance services for five years and gave states the option to deny immigrants
coverage.

If the legislation passes, states can choose to open the CHIP program
immediately to immigrant children whose parents make too much money to qualify
for Medicaid, but too little to afford private insurance. The federal government
would split the program's cost with states. The National Governors' Association
supports the corrective measure. And Gov. Jeb Bush's endorsement shows how
pivotal the issue is for Florida, where about 800,000 children of immigrant
parents lived in 1999. Of those kids, 28 percent are uninsured, double the rate
for other children. Only Texas insures a smaller percentage of its immigrant
kids. Few states would benefit more from increased federal help than Florida.
Graham's office estimates that if the provision had been in place two years ago,
Florida could have spent all its federal allocation of CHIP money and qualified
for a bonus, rather than having to give a portion of the funds back to
Washington.

Even if you assume Congress in 1996 had the best motives, the reforms designed
to discourage illegal immigration cast too wide a net. While the restrictions
targeted non-citizens, plenty of citizens have suffered as well, because 80
percent of children with immigrant parents are actually citizens themselves. The
Graham and Diaz-Balart measures also would extend benefits to pregnant
immigrants, a change that would help about 50,000 women annually. To the extent
that the bill reduces emergency room visits and other expensive emergency care,
it would save money for every Floridian who uses the medical system. The measure
is part of a three-part package that also seeks to restore food-stamp
eligibility to children of immigrants and reopen services to women who are
domestic violence victims. Bipartisan support from Graham and Diaz-Balart is
encouraging. The rest of the Florida delegation should join them in restoring
equal access to the fruits of legal state and national citizenship, no matter
when one's parents set foot on these shores.


LOAD-DATE: April 6, 2001

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: EDITORIAL

                    Copyright 2001 Times Publishing Company


                              51 of 302 DOCUMENTS

                         St. Petersburg Times (Florida)

                April 02, 2001, Monday, 0 South Pinellas Edition

Mexico to suggest looser U.S. immigration rules

SOURCE: Compiled from Times Wires

SECTION: NATIONAL; IN BRIEF; Pg. 2A

LENGTH: 331 words

DATELINE: MEXICO CITY; COLOMBIA; BURUNDI; BANGLADESH



The new Mexican government plans to urge the Bush administration to change U.S.
immigration policy to allow far more Mexicans to enter the United States legally
and give a new legal status to those now working there illegally.

The Mexican proposals, although still tentative, constitute the first test for a
pledge of better cross-border relations - in particular on the issue of
immigration - adopted by President Bush and Mexican President Vicente Fox at an
effusive summit meeting in Fox's hometown of San Cristobal on Feb. 16. Fox's
ideas will be presented to U.S. officials at a high-level meeting Wednesday in
Washington.

In fighting Sunday . . .

COLOMBIA: Colombian troops advanced toward a remote town in a restive
southwestern province after a rebel assault that the army said destroyed several
homes and may have killed police. Guerrillas from the leftist Revolutionary
Armed Forces of Colombia attacked Almaguer early Sunday, army Col. Fidel
Velandia told the Associated Press.

BURUNDI: The Tutsi-dominated army fought Hutu rebels in a southern suburb of
Burundi's capital, Bujumbura, where officials said 37 combatants were killed in
clashes last week.

BANGLADESH: Violent clashes in Bangladesh killed one man and injured 200 during
the start of a three-day general strike intended to force Prime Minister Sheikh
Hasina's resignation, police said. Bombs in the capital, Dhaka, injured 35.

Also . . .

GERMAN MERGER: Directors at Allianz AG and Dresdner Bank AG have approved the
German insurance giant's takeover of the country's No. 3 bank to form a new
European powerhouse, Allianz said Sunday in a statement. Allianz, which already
owns 20 percent of Dresdner, will pay $ 47.81 per share in cash and stock for
the remaining 80 percent stake.

OIL RIG PROTEST: Greenpeace environmental activists occupied an oil exploration
rig on Scotland's east coast Sunday, accusing Houston oil company Conoco of
contributing to global warming. Police arrested 17.


LOAD-DATE: April 12, 2001

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: DIGEST

                    Copyright 2001 Times Publishing Company


                              52 of 302 DOCUMENTS

                         St. Petersburg Times (Florida)

               April 12, 2001, Thursday, 0 South Pinellas Edition

Curiosity, Web and DNA may solve murder

BYLINE: DAVID ADAMS

SECTION: NATIONAL; Pg. 1A

LENGTH: 679 words

DATELINE: MIAMI



It was a shocking crime that for five years has frustrated authorities in France
and caused untold anguish for a family in Britain.

But now, thanks to the curiosity of a diligent Detroit immigration inspector -
and some DNA - the case may have been solved.

Veteran agent Tommy Ontko was reading a British newspaper online April 1 when
his attention was drawn by an article about a murder mystery in northwestern
France.

The article recounted the investigation into the 1996 death of a 13-year-old
British schoolgirl, Caroline Dickinson, who was raped and strangled at a youth
hostel during a school trip to Brittany.

It described how French officials conducted DNA tests on all 200 or so male
residents from 15 to 35 in the small town where the crime occurred.

What caught Ontko's eye was mention in the article of a 50-year-old Spanish man
named Francisco Arce wanted for questioning in the case. The story said European
immigration officials had lost track of Arce, but it didn't say where they had
looked.

"He thought he should try to see if anyone had looked for the suspect in the
United States," said Greg Palmore, spokesman for the Immigration and
Naturalization Service in Detroit. "He was just doing his civic duty."

Not exactly. April 1 was a Sunday and Ontko was on his home computer.

When he ran the name through a law enforcement database he got an instant hit:
The computer showed that an unemployed waiter from northern Spain with the same
name had been arrested March 13 in Miami Beach.

Ontko realized that he would need more data to know if he had the right man. He
contacted British and French officials for more details, such as a date of
birth. The information he received confirmed that the French suspect and the
Miami Beach man were one and the same.

Ontko contacted Miami Beach police to see whether the man was still in custody.
He was told that indeed, due to his Spanish nationality, Arce was being held as
a possible flight risk at Miami-Dade County Jail in lieu of $ 30,000 bail.

According to the police arrest report, Arce was accused of breaking into a
woman's room at the Banana Bungalows Hotel and international hostel in Miami
Beach, cutting off her underwear while she slept and then masturbating.

At first, police didn't take much notice. "On its face it wasn't a major case,"
said Miami Beach police spokesman Al Boza. "We had no idea there was suddenly
going to be such international attention."

Even so, Miami-Dade crime laboratory technicians were already working on Arce's
DNA to provide evidence in the MiamiBeach case. A sample of semen taken from the
Banana Bungalows crime scene was analyzed to compare it with a saliva swab taken
from Arce after his arrest.

The DNA analysis suddenly took on new significance. Now fully alerted by Ontko's
information, French authorities sent a DNA profile from the Brittany murder
scene to be compared with Arce's sample.

On Wednesday, Miami-Dade police confirmed that its own DNA analysts had
concluded that the two profiles were an almost certain match.

"There is little doubt in my mind that this is the man they are looking for,"
said detective Ed Munn, a Miami-Dade County police spokesman. "Based on this
evidence it looks like we have solved an international murder mystery."

Wednesday morning a Miami judge revoked Arce's bail and ordered him held until a
July 2 trial date on the Miami Beach charges.

Despite the preliminary match, French investigators may have to carry out
further DNA analyses before any extradition request can be made.

While all forensic science services use the same basic methods, there are some
minor differences in laboratory protocol from country to country.

For a perfect DNA match that will stand up in court, the crime scene sample and
the swab taken from the suspect must be examined using the same protocol.

French police are on their way to Florida to take their own DNA samples, which
will be tested at the same French laboratory that analyzed the crime scene
samples, using the same method as in the original tests.


LOAD-DATE: April 18, 2001

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: PHOTO; Francisco Arce, 50, of Spain

                    Copyright 2001 Times Publishing Company


                              53 of 302 DOCUMENTS

                         St. Petersburg Times (Florida)

               April 14, 2001, Saturday, 0 South Pinellas Edition

INS blocks Al-Najjar from working

BYLINE: SUSAN ASCHOFF

SECTION: CITY & STATE; Pg. 3B

LENGTH: 397 words



The federal government denied Mazen Al-Najjar a work permit this week, four
months after he was released from jail because immigration officials failed to
prove he was a terrorist.

"To grant your application would be contrary to the best interests of the United
States," the Immigration and Naturalization Service wrote in a letter to the
Tampa resident this week.

"Based on a careful review of all the evidence . . . regarding your presence and
activities, in particular your association with person known or suspected to be
involved with terrorist organizations," the request is denied, said the letter,
signed by INS district director Robert Wallis in Miami.

Immigrants awaiting a decision on their status and whether they may remain in
the United States need INS authorization to hold a job.

Al-Najjar applied for the work permit about five months ago, while still
detained in an INS jail in Bradenton. He was released Dec. 15 by then-Attorney
General Janet Reno after several judges ruled he had been denied his
constitutional rights because the government did not share any of its secret
evidence.

Al-Najjar had been jailed since May 1997 after being ordered deported for
overstaying a student visa.

The government says he is a supporter of the Palestinian Islamic Jihad, a group
claiming bombings in the Middle East. Ramadan Abdullah Shallah worked at a Tampa
think tank with Al-Najjar before leaving the United States and assuming
leadership of the Damascus-based group in 1995.

Al-Najjar denies any ties to terrorists.

While Al-Najjar appeals his deportation, a legal step which can take years, he
wants to support his wife and three daughters. He has a doctorate in engineering
and has taught classes at the University of South Florida and worked as a
translator.

"I was a little surprised - I thought they'd learned their lesson from the
courts,"  Al-Najjar said of the denial. "With the INS, I should always expect
the worst. They have been trying to make my life a shambles for years."

Authorization for employment is discretionary, INS spokeswoman Maria Elena
Garcia said Friday. "Every case is adjudicated on its own merits."

Al-Najjar's wife, Fedaa, had been working as a pharmacist but is looking for a
job that provides health insurance for the family, she says. She is fighting
deportation and waiting for her work permit to be renewed.


LOAD-DATE: April 20, 2001

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DISTRIBUTION: CITY & STATE; METRO & STATE; TAMPA & STATE

GRAPHIC: PHOTO; Mazen Al-Najjar

                    Copyright 2001 Times Publishing Company


                              54 of 302 DOCUMENTS

                         St. Petersburg Times (Florida)

               April 14, 2001, Saturday, 0 South Pinellas Edition

INS blocks Al-Najjar from working

BYLINE: SUSAN ASCHOFF

SECTION: CITY & STATE; Pg. 3B

LENGTH: 397 words



The federal government denied Mazen Al-Najjar a work permit this week, four
months after he was released from jail because immigration officials failed to
prove he was a terrorist.

"To grant your application would be contrary to the best interests of the United
States," the Immigration and Naturalization Service wrote in a letter to the
Tampa resident this week.

"Based on a careful review of all the evidence . . . regarding your presence and
activities, in particular your association with person known or suspected to be
involved with terrorist organizations," the request is denied, said the letter,
signed by INS district director Robert Wallis in Miami.

Immigrants awaiting a decision on their status and whether they may remain in
the United States need INS authorization to hold a job.

Al-Najjar applied for the work permit about five months ago, while still
detained in an INS jail in Bradenton. He was released Dec. 15 by then-Attorney
General Janet Reno after several judges ruled he had been denied his
constitutional rights because the government did not share any of its secret
evidence.

Al-Najjar had been jailed since May 1997 after being ordered deported for
overstaying a student visa.

The government says he is a supporter of the Palestinian Islamic Jihad, a group
claiming bombings in the Middle East. Ramadan Abdullah Shallah worked at a Tampa
think tank with Al-Najjar before leaving the United States and assuming
leadership of the Damascus-based group in 1995.

Al-Najjar denies any ties to terrorists.

While Al-Najjar appeals his deportation, a legal step which can take years, he
wants to support his wife and three daughters. He has a doctorate in engineering
and has taught classes at the University of South Florida and worked as a
translator.

"I was a little surprised - I thought they'd learned their lesson from the
courts,"  Al-Najjar said of the denial. "With the INS, I should always expect
the worst. They have been trying to make my life a shambles for years."

Authorization for employment is discretionary, INS spokeswoman Maria Elena
Garcia said Friday. "Every case is adjudicated on its own merits."

Al-Najjar's wife, Fedaa, had been working as a pharmacist but is looking for a
job that provides health insurance for the family, she says. She is fighting
deportation and waiting for her work permit to be renewed.


LOAD-DATE: April 20, 2001

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DISTRIBUTION: CITY & STATE; METRO & STATE; TAMPA & STATE

GRAPHIC: PHOTO; Mazen Al-Najjar

                    Copyright 2001 Times Publishing Company


                              55 of 302 DOCUMENTS

                         St. Petersburg Times (Florida)

                May 01, 2001, Tuesday, 0 South Pinellas Edition

'I do' on deadline

BYLINE: SUSAN ASCHOFF

SECTION: FLORIDIAN; Pg. 1D

LENGTH: 836 words

DATELINE: TAMPA



There were no wedding rings. No satin gown. No beribboned toasters or place
settings.

But because Gabriela DeAlba promised, before the clock struck midnight Monday,
to love and honor Hilario Jimenez as long as they both shall live, she gave him
what only she could: a chance to live legally in the United States.

DeAlba, carrying a diaper bag, and Jimenez, carrying their 4-month-old daughter,
Cecilia, arrived at the Hillsborough County Courthouse minutes after the doors
opened Friday morning. As Cecilia kicked her stockinged feet in her infant seat,
her parents stepped under an arch covered with silk flowers in a corner of the
marriage license office.

The ceremony was in Spanish. Jimenez does not speak English.

"Ahora les declaro esposo y esposa," said deputy clerk Manuel Mangual. I now
pronounce you husband and wife.

A quick kiss, a longer hug, and they were gone, he to a job finishing drywall
and she to the Spanish music store she manages in Wimauma. By taking part in the
two-minute ceremony, they joined the biggest immigration rush in the United
States in years.

In recent weeks, thousands of illegal aliens have jammed the phone lines of
lawyers, charities and the Immigration and Naturalization Service, inquiring
about a four-month window in the immigration law. Called Section 245 (i), it
allows illegal aliens to remain in the country while their paperwork is
processed if a close relative or employer sponsors them.

Immigration law has always allowed the spouse, parent or child of an immigrant
to be a sponsor. But the immigrant has to be in the country legally. Those who
enter without paperwork are deportable and can be barred from re-entry for 10
years.

Section 245 (i), in effect, forgives past sins.

Last week in Fort Lauderdale, wedding ceremonies performed at Broward County
Courthouse jumped 75 percent as hundreds of couples waited in folding chairs in
the foyer. In Plant City, a branch office of the Hillsborough County Courthouse
dispensed 60 percent more marriage licenses this March and April than in the
same months last year.

"We were getting 80 to 100 calls a day," says William Rosas, DeAlba's stepfather
and an immigration specialist at Catholic Charities in St. Petersburg.

DeAlba says she and Jimenez already were planning to get married. "We just did
it sooner" because of 245 (i).

"I want to help him. I told him, "I want you to be legal. I'm afraid immigration
is going to show up and take you,' " she says.

DeAlba, 30, from Tamaulipas state in Mexico, has lived here for 20 years and is
a U.S. citizen. She has an 8-year-old son, Gabriel. Jimenez, 33, arrived in the
late 1990s from Nuevo Leon state. He said he does not want to talk about how he
entered the country.

At first he told DeAlba he would not marry her "on deadline." Everyone would
think he married her just for his papers, he told her.

She said it did not matter what people think. The stakes are too high for them
to worry about gossip.

Sweeping changes in immigration law passed in 1996 virtually eliminated
consideration on merit. Immigrants who have lived and worked in the U.S. for
years, whose children are U.S. citizens, face splitting up their families if
they try to become legal or continuing to live in fear of discovery if they
don't.

Getting married does not mean Jimenez is guaranteed he will get to stay. INS
investigators will review marriages and employer sponsorships submitted under
245 (i) to determine their validity. Paperwork had to be postmarked by midnight
Monday, when the four-month window closed. Applications required payment of $
1,300: a $ 300 application fee and a $ 1,000 fine.

About 10 percent of the estimated 5-million to 10-million illegal residents in
the U.S. may qualify to stay under 245 (i), though it is not yet known how many
applied. In Florida, an estimated 35,000 people may be eligible.

"If a person has a U.S. relative," says Tampa immigration lawyer Bill Flynn,
"that's golden. And 245 (i) gets a person over the hump if you entered
(illegally)."

Those who applied will likely wait years for approval because of INS backlogs.
DeAlba and Jimenez submitted their INS application after the wedding but likely
won't see any action taken before their first anniversary.

"But what (immigrants) get is the government saying, "We're going to overlook
that you're not legal, that you worked when you didn't have a permit,' " says
Rosas.

At the courthouse Friday, a man and a woman waiting in line behind DeAlba and
Jimenez said they heard about the deadline on the television news. "I wasn't
planning on getting married now, but because of the deadline we will," said
Isabelle, a U.S. citizen, of her wedding to Frank, who arrived from the
Dominican Republic six years ago. They declined to give their last names.

"You've got nowhere to go now," Frank teased Jimenez in Spanish, as Jimenez
exited the courthouse's wedding chapel.

That is just the pronouncement Jimenez wants from his adopted country.


LOAD-DATE: May 11, 2001

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: PHOTO, FRASER HALE; Hilario Jiminez, and Gabriela DeAlba kiss after
taking their vows at the Hillsborough County Courthouse on Friday morning. Their
4-month-old daughter, Cecilia, rests in her car seat. Deputy clerk Manuel
Mangual, who performed the cermony, is shown.

                    Copyright 2001 Times Publishing Company


                              56 of 302 DOCUMENTS

                         St. Petersburg Times (Florida)

                 May 21, 2001, Monday, 0 South Pinellas Edition

Immigration laws too often make families suffer

SECTION: EDITORIAL; LETTERS; Pg. 11A

LENGTH: 1900 words



The 1996 immigration laws are tearing apart so many families here in the United
States. These harsh, and cruel laws have been in effect now for five years, and
many American families have felt the pain and sorrow of losing a loved one. To
all the mothers who have lost their spouses to these laws, seen them deported
and now must carry the family alone; to all the mothers who have themselves lost
the fight to remain here in the United States with their families, and were
deported: I know your pain and I am fighting for your voice to be heard.

To the children who cry for the parent who has been taken away because Congress
passed a law that is so barbaric and unforgiving that even the most minor
offense in the past can be cause for a legal permanent resident to be exiled, my
child shares your pain and sorrow.

To any mother who has tried to comfort a child in a helpless situation and
provide hope for him when there is none, I have been there and I tell your
story.

 The 1996 immigration laws were enacted shortly after the Oklahoma City bombing,
when there was a belief that it had been done by foreign terrorists. I don't
believe Congress could foresee how many families would be dismantled and
destroyed by these laws, families with American spouses and American children.
But after five years, Congress has heard many of the stories of pain and
hopelessness and still has not acted to amend these laws. And our children are
suffering needlessly.

There are very few who can go through life without making a mistake, but these
legal permanent residents are being made to suffer twice for their offense, the
second time with lifelong exile from the United States and their families. These
laws are rigid,  and there is no forgiveness for even the most minor offense
such as a bad check written in the past.

 I beg the people of the United States to please hear our cries for help and ask
Congress to fix what it did in 1996: Change these laws. Give us back our day in
court. We are not talking about amnesty for everyone, but just a chance to prove
our case. Many of us come from countries that we cannot bring our children to
for fear of them suffering even more. Please help our families stay together.
Support changes in these laws.

Catherine A. Caza, Holiday

The law is in need of change

Re: "I do" on deadline, May 1, and other immigration-related articles.

For many potential immigrants, such as Hilario Gonzalez and other immediate
relatives of American citizens (defined as parents, spouses and/or minor
unmarried children), the LIFE Act will provide a nice, immediate benefit - work
authorization within three months and the coveted "green card" about one year or
so later. But for many others who submitted their petitions to the Immigration
and Naturalization Service before the April 30 deadline, like Jairo Lara
(Immigration deadline brings rush of cases, April 25), they will not be so
lucky.

Why? Because it will still take years - in some cases, more than 13 years -
before they will be eligible to apply for the final "adjustment of status" step,
which is the first time a person may apply for employment authorization and,
ultimately, get his or her "green card." In the meanwhile, there is no
protection under the immigration laws, which means a person could still be
deported/removed from the United Stater, if picked up by INS. Mr. Lara, in one
article, stated he no longer had to be "in hiding," but he should be careful.
Not only could he and his family be placed in removal proceedings, but his
"employer" could also be subject to sanctions by the INS for hiring a person who
does not have authorization from INS to work, as has happened already in other
INS jurisdictions. Unfortunately, many potential immigrants are living under the
false hope of "amnesty" and an immediate right to work under 245(i), as implied
in many articles and on TV. This is simply not the case.

For the LIFE Act to truly live up to its name, Congress needs to give it more
life, that is, to extend this part of the law - Section 245(i) - permanently
and/or repeal some of the onerous provisions of the 1996 act, which can cause a
person to be barred from returning to the United States for three or 10 years
and, in some cases, can separate families forever - permanent exile, if you will
- if a spouse, parent or child has certain prior criminal convictions, even if
that person has already been granted permanent resident status. There are
numerous other parts of the 1996 law and other provisions of the immigration
laws that are mean-spirited and need to be reviewed and changed, if the United
States cares to live up to its reputation as "the land of the free."

Ellen Gorman, attorney, president-elect, Central Florida

Chapter of the American Immigration Lawyers Association,

St. Petersburg

Strawberry case a setback for justice

Re: Strawberry is spared jail term, May 18.

I would like to thank Judge Florence Foster for taking our tainted judicial
system another step backward. Thank you, judge, for making it more and more
difficult to explain to my children why we have laws, why some people go to jail
while others don't. Maybe I should have you explain how deep pockets work.

Darryl, you got away with it again and again and again. We already know what
high-priced lawyers can do, don't we. People think this trouble just started
with you, but we know better.

Now I just have to work harder in bringing my children up with the values of
upstanding citizens of their communities.

Michael Caserta, Palm Harbor

Judge should be sent to the minors

I admire Darryl Strawberry as a baseball player. He is a superb athlete. As a
role model he is absolutely nothing. Judge Florence Foster, when rendering
judgment on Strawberry, said that "this is the bottom of the ninth, with two
strikes against him. He has proved he is a winner on the field. Now he must
prove he is a winner off the field."

I envisioned the same scene except Darryl hits the ball to the judge who allows
Darryl to reach base due to an error. If I were the team manager I would have to
bench Foster, who has been committing many errors as of late. It is time that
she be sent to the minors for further seasoning.

Sidney M. Cohen, Spring Hill

Don't demean Mrs. Strawberry

Re: The slugger's wife, by Lane DeGregory, May 17.

Charisse Strawberry is an example Lane DeGregory ought to admire. Why would you
have a reporter babble about her looks, mouth, height and demeanor and then ask
such a demeaning question as, "Is it love? Or a kind of addiction?" That kind of
nonsense is suited to Ricki Lake - not the Times.

Darryl Strawberry is in a situation created by a mean-spirited public and
prosecutor. It calls for understanding and compassion - not hate and disrespect.
Charisse Strawberry understands that and is trying to do what she can to help
her mate. Suppose it was Tipper Gore talking about depression - what then would
you wonder?

What we should be doing is challenging the state's motives in persecuting this
man. You should not demean his wife for her support - even if you don't
understand the problem.

Howard C. Batt, Clearwater

Gym name would be exclusionary

 Re: Group threatens to sue for "Black Gym" name, May 17.

   Whatever part of my tax dollar went to fund the Uhuru Black Gym of Our Own, I
want it back. Leave aside the 501(c)3 non-discriminatory membership policies.
The name itself is exclusionary and discourages anyone who is not black from
joining.

   I urge the St. Petersburg City Council to file suit or do whatever is
necessary to make this a community friendly gym, because the community paid for
it. These people signed a contract; I believe the city is responsible for
enforcing it.

Alida Marie Duchene, St. Petersburg

Group shows it will not keep its word

Re. Group threatens to sue for "Black Gym" name.

  Liar, liar, pants on fire! That must be the lesson the African People's
Education and Defense Fund wants us to learn about them. I hope everyone in the
community does learn this lesson. When you deal with APEDF you are dealing with
people who do not keep their word.

Fool me once, shame on you. Fool me twice, shame on me. I can't see anyone smart
and honest wanting to enter into an agreement with them again.

The time for constitutional challenges was before they agreed to take the money
with its restrictions, not after it was spent. Maybe there is another lesson
here. It seems that in the APEDF world, in addition to not keeping their word,
they leave the "a" off of agreed.

Don Thompson, St. Petersburg

Public funds make a difference

Re: Group threatens to sue for "Black Gym" name.

I would have had no problem with a self-funded gym just for members of the black
community, and they could name whatever they wanted. However, since the members
of this group took public funds, I find something terribly wrong in their naming
a supposedly integrated gym with a markedly segregated name "Uhuru Black Gym of
Our Own." What do they think the difference is between this and the attempt by
many Southerners to keep the rebel battle flag around? If it offends even one,
we should take a strong look at it, but if it offends many we should stop it.
Maybe if they flew the rebel flag over it I wouldn't mind the name. That sounds
fair.

Chris Rogers, Clearwater

City should back off

Re. Group threatens to sue for "Black Gym" name.

I'm writting in regard to the city of St. Petersburg wanting to sue the African
People's Education and Defense Fund because the group members want to name their
gym the Black Gym of Our Own.

The city should back off. The group said anyone can join the gym, no matter his
race or creed. That's good enough for me.

It's also better than the treatment the government for may years gave the
African-Americans. For many years we had signs that said "whites only" on
bathrooms while the blacks were made to use outhouses or bathrooms that were
filthy. There were restaurants that would not serve black people, or if they did
they added a special something or two to their meals. The list goes on and on.

The people at this gym are not putting up a sign that says "Blacks only. All
whites will be asked to leave." Everyone is welcome. No one would be turned
away.

M. Gaines, St. Petersburg

Vexed by apostrophe abuse

Thank you so much for the May 17 article Be kind to apostrophes - or is that
apostrophe's?

This is my pet peeve! I can't tell you how many times I have stopped at
vegetable stands, begging the owner to correct the sign "Avocado's for Sale."
Just the other day I was in a Hallmark card store looking at Father's Day cards,
and one section was labeled "Dad's Do It Different" - which of course should be
"Dads Do It Differently."

Another peeve is "he is older/taller/smarter than me," which should be "he is
older/taller/smarter than I (am)." Don't even get me started on the epidemic
butchery of "lie" and "lay" - "I was just laying on the couch . . ." AARGH!

Thanks for letting this old English major vent!!

Elaine Coffin, South Pasadena

Share your opinions

Letters for publication should be addressed to Letters to the Editor, P.O. Box
1121, St. Petersburg, FL 33731. They can be sent by e-mail to
letters@sptimes.com or by fax to (727) 893-8675.

They should be brief and must include the writer's name, address and phone
number.


LOAD-DATE: May 22, 2001

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: CARTOON, DON ADDIS; An older man sitting and reading a newspaper to a
small boy.  The headline on the newspaper is Manure Mail in Tally. Other
headlines include, Fisticuffs, egging in England, Mayor up for murder,
Incivility rules D.C. The man says to the boy, 'Yes, its rewarding to see how
far we've advanced in government and politics over 21 centuries."

TYPE: LETTER

                    Copyright 2001 Times Publishing Company


                              57 of 302 DOCUMENTS

                         St. Petersburg Times (Florida)

                             June 17, 2001, Sunday

Court clings to bias against fathers

SECTION: PERSPECTIVE; EDITORIALS; Pg. 2D

LENGTH: 414 words



Equal protection under the law apparently doesn't extend to fathers. In a 5-to-4
split, the U.S. Supreme Court upheld an immigration law that requires American
fathers of out-of-wedlock children born abroad to foreign mothers to establish
paternity before the child turns 18. Children born abroad to American mothers
automatically receive U.S. citizenship in most cases. But under the current
immigration law, fathers - even those who raise their foreign-born children on
American soil - must formally acknowledge paternity before the child becomes a
legal adult.

The ruling told single father Joseph Boulais that he isn't as important as a
mother. Boulais brought his 6-year-old son, Tuan Anh Nguyen, from Vietnam to the
United States in 1975 but never formally acknowledged paternity. When he was 22,
Nguyen was convicted of sexual assault, served his sentence and was then ordered
deported by the government. Boulais belatedly tried to give his son citizenship
by acknowledging his paternity, but the court ruled that he was too late.

The court's decision deviates from its scrupulous examination of sex
discrimination. In 1982, the court wrote that sex-based generalizations
reinforce "fixed notions concerning the roles and abilities of males and
females." In writing the majority opinion for the Nguyen case, Justice Anthony
Kennedy claimed that the decision to uphold the law imposed by Congress is based
on the mother's obvious biological relationship to the child. DNA testing
refutes that point. But the justices also said mothers were more likely to form
"important relationships" with children, pointing to an alleged irresponsibility
of fathers toward their children.

The justices' assumption that mothers nearly always have more important
relationships with their children than do fathers is disturbing and
discriminatory. Boulais was the sole parental figure in Nguyen's life, yet he
still could not automatically ensure his child's citizenship. The ruling is a
slap in the face to all single fathers who have formed "important" relationships
with their children.

Justice Sandra Day O'Connor wrote the dissenting opinion, in which she said the
majority opinion "may itself simply reflect the stereotype of male
irresponsibility that is no more a basis for the validity of the classification
than are stereotypes about the "traditional' behavior patterns of women." The
court just reinforced a legal obstacle to striking down those stereotypes.


LOAD-DATE: June 18, 2001

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: EDITORIAL

                    Copyright 2001 Times Publishing Company


                              58 of 302 DOCUMENTS

                         St. Petersburg Times (Florida)

               June 28, 2001, Thursday, 0 South Pinellas Edition

Fairness for immigrants

SECTION: EDITORIAL; EDITORIALS; Pg. 16A

LENGTH: 583 words



The U.S. Supreme Court may have written a happy ending to the tribulations of
thousands of legal immigrants facing deportation.

On Monday the court ruled 5 to 4 that immigrants who are deportable under a 1996
statute for having commited an "aggravated felony" may access the courts for a
review of their deportation order. And, the court said, the attorney general has
the discretion to grant a waiver of deportation for immigrants who pleaded
guilty to their crimes before the passage of the 1996 act.

The ruling is judicious and humane.

Our region has seen its share of tragedies as a result of the harsh application
of the 1996 Anti-terrorism and Effective Death Penalty Act, which provided for
automatic deportation for immigrants who had commited any of a long list of
crimes.

Hadi Alyasin from Pasco County was deported to Syria because he had consensual
sex with an underage girl when he was 18.

John Gaul III of Tampa, who was adopted as an infant, was deported to Thailand,
where he didn't speak the language and hadn't been since birth, because he was
convicted of stealing a car and writing bad checks at 19.

And there were others across the country, thousands of others, people who had
been living in our nation legally, had family here and ties to the community but
made some mistakes in the past - sometimes very minor mistakes in the very
distant past.

Prior to the 1996 law, legal immigrants who commited a criminal offense for
which they faced deportation could apply to the attorney general for a waiver.
If the aliens could provide convincing evidence they had changed their lives and
had significant ties to the United States, a waiver was granted more often than
not.

But since the enactment of the Anti-terrorism Act, both former Attorney General
Janet Reno and Attorney General John Ashcroft have maintained that Congress
stripped them of that discretion.

Well, not exactly, said the court, in a decision authored by Justice John Paul
Stevens. While Congress eliminated the waiver going forward, said Stevens, it
wasn't at all clear that the new law was intended to apply retroactively. The
court noted that aliens who agreed to plead guilty as part of a plea bargain may
have done so only because they knew they wouldn't be automatically deported and
the waiver option was available.

Congress can't change the rules after the fact unless it does so with explicit
clarity, said Stevens.

This is great news for Catherine Caza of Pasco County, a 44-year-old single
mother of a 10-year-old American daughter and a recent graduate of the
Springfield College of Human Services in Tampa. She has lived in the United
States since 1960 but was facing deportation to her native Canada because as a
young woman she had sold LSD and Quaaludes to her boyfriend, who turned out to
be working as an undercover officer. At the time, Caza accepted a plea bargain
and pleaded guilty to that crime and would now qualify for a potential waiver.
Certainly, hers is the type of case deserving of one. The late Gov. Lawton
Chiles granted her a pardon.

The court ruling has softened the edges of the Anti-terrorism Act, and it
brought a degree of sanity to another 1996 statute, the Illegal Immigration
Reform and Immigrant Responsibility Act, that had barred the courthouse door to
immigrants seeking to challenge deportation. But only Congress has the power to
set things right by revisiting these laws and returning a true measure of
fairness to our immigration system.


LOAD-DATE: June 28, 2001

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: EDITORIAL

                    Copyright 2001 Times Publishing Company


                              59 of 302 DOCUMENTS

                         St. Petersburg Times (Florida)

                July 08, 2001, Sunday, 0 South Pinellas Edition

To deport or not to deport? Everyone has an opinion

BYLINE: SUSAN TAYLOR MARTIN

SECTION: NATIONAL; SENIOR CORRESPONDENT; Pg. 2A

LENGTH: 803 words



Last Sunday, I wrote about Hadi Alyasin, a Pasco County man deported to Syria
for having sex with a 12-year-old girl when he was 18. (He says he thought she
was older.)

The point I intended to make was that Alyasin, an immigrant, is being punished
more severely than a U.S. citizen would have been. Part of the 1996 law under
which he was deported was recently ruled unconstitutional by the U.S. Supreme
Court.

Some readers could not get past Alyasin's crime. They said I had glorified a
"child molester" and a "pedophile."

"How would you feel if it were your 12-year-old daughter?" one father asked.

As a parent, I can certainly understand his feelings. Our society abhors sex
with children, and rightly so. Alyasin knew what he did was wrong, and that is
why he pleaded guilty to a lewd and lascivious act and served 18 months as a
youthful offender.

However, I do not think two young people having relations is quite the same as a
much older person preying on children against their will. Neither did the state
of Florida, or Alyasin would have been charged with the more serious crime of
sexual battery.

But my column also prompted another reaction, one that helps explain why the
1996 Immigration Reform Act was passed in the first place.

"You mentioned Ted Kennedy wanting to overturn the 1996 immigration act, what do
you expect?" wrote a reader from Dunedin. "He sponsored the 1966 immigrations,
flooding our country with Third World, non-English-speaking aliens. Yes, we need
to close the door on ALL immigration, we don't need them or your article."

 It is worth noting that Dunedin, in Pinellas County, is known for its rich
Scottish heritage, while nearby Tarpon Springs is home to many people of Greek
origin. Immigrants have given our country much of its flavor, and throughout
U.S. history their contributions have far outweighed negatives, many studies
have found.

Yet as that reader's comments show, a lot of people simply don't like
foreigners. A recent Gallup poll showed almost 40 percent of Americans would
stop all immigration for the next five years. The same percentage thinks
immigrants "threaten" American culture and have been a "bad thing" for the
country in general.

In the mid 90s, the anti-immigrant mood was stronger, fueled by the World Trade
Center bombing by Middle Eastern terrorists and fears that Mexican workers were
"stealing" jobs from U.S. citizens.

In response, Congress passed the 1996 act, which made it harder for foreigners
to enter and easier to kick them out. Among its many controversial provisions,
it expanded the list of crimes for which a person could be deported and made the
law retroactive. That meant immigrants could be expelled for crimes that were
not deportable at the time they were committed.

To understand the sweep of this law, consider a hypothetical example. Let's say
you drink too much at a party and are arrested for DUI. It is your first
offense, so you pay a steep fine and lose your license for six months.

After you have paid your penalty, Congress decides to really crack down on
drunken driving. It passes a law saying that everyone who has pleaded guilty to
DUI - no matter how long ago - has to go to jail for a year with no opportunity
for a hearing or appeal. And that's not all - you will be expelled from the
United States for 20 years.

Does this sound terribly unfair? It is essentially what happened with the 1996
act. Although Alyasin and others had served their sentences for crimes committed
before the law took effect, they had to spend more time in jail, then were
deported.

Two weeks ago, the Supreme Court ruled that immigrants cannot be automatically
expelled but can seek exemptions. That was good news for people like
Canadian-born Catherine Caza of Pasco County, who faces deportation because she
sold drugs in 1981 to an undercover officer. Caza, a mother and college
graduate, has since straighted out her life and received a governor's pardon.

It is not clear what effect the court's ruling will have on immigrants who have
been deported. But Caza thinks people like Alyasin and his family have been
punished enough.

"So, his wasn't the most sympathetic case," she e-mailed me. "Nonetheless, the
entire family has had their life destroyed over this young man's bad choices."

Indeed, the real tests of how much we believe in the principles on which this
country was founded usually involve imperfect people and unpopular causes.
Freedom of speech cases do not arise from singing God Bless America. They stem
from publishing Hustler magazine or spewing anti-Semitic language on the air.

Even this conservative Supreme Court has acknowledged that non-citizens have
rights. Yet it seems that many U.S. citizens do not agree.

- Susan Taylor Martin can be reached at susan@sptimes.com


LOAD-DATE: July 9, 2001

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: PHOTO; Hadi Alyasin

TYPE: COLUMN

                    Copyright 2001 Times Publishing Company


                              60 of 302 DOCUMENTS

                         St. Petersburg Times (Florida)

                July 20, 2001, Friday, 0 South Pinellas Edition

INS ordered to release immigrants

SOURCE: Compiled from Times Wires

SECTION: NATIONAL; IN BRIEF; Pg. 4A

LENGTH: 381 words

DATELINE: WASHINGTON



Attorney General John Ashcroft on Thursday reluctantly ordered the Immigration
and Naturalization Service to begin releasing 3,400 foreign nationals who have
completed sentences for criminal convictions in the United States but whose home
countries won't take them back.

The decision comes three weeks after the Supreme Court ruled that the INS cannot
detain the criminals indefinitely, even if there is no country to which they can
be deported. INS policy allowed holding criminal immigrants as long as necessary
to protect public safety.

The detainees, most of whom are legal immigrants who never applied for
citizenship, are being held at INS-run detention centers or local jails around
the country that have contracts with the INS. Some may be released as early as
next week, officials said.

Intern search criticized as hurting other inquiries

The painstaking search for missing former federal intern Chandra Levy is hurting
murder investigations in Washington, leaders of the police union said Thursday.

Gregory I. Green, the union's secretary, said officers are hearing complaints
from residents in the neighborhoods they patrol about the search for Levy, who
has not been seen for 80 days.

On Thursday, the House Committee on Standards of Official Conduct said it would
defer an inquiry of Rep. Gary Condit, D-Calif., requested by Rep. Bob Barr,
R-Ga. Barr alleged last week that Condit, who reportedly had an affair with
Levy, obstructed the police investigation of Levy's disappearance.

The union's criticism of police leadership came as the FBI moved the Levy case
to its Major Crime Squad, which handles long-term investigations.

Committee sends judge nominees to full Senate

The Senate Judiciary Committee on Thursday approved the first of President
Bush's judicial picks, sending three nominations to the full Senate.

Roger Gregory, Richard Cebull and Sam Haddon won approval by a 19-0 vote and
without debate. It was the committee's first voting session since the Democratic
takeover of the Senate and came a little more than a week after their
confirmation hearing.

Gregory was among Bush's first nominees. He is the first black judge to serve on
the 4th Circuit, which covers North Carolina, South Carolina, Virginia, West
Virginia and Maryland.


LOAD-DATE: July 24, 2001

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: DIGEST

                    Copyright 2001 Times Publishing Company


                              61 of 302 DOCUMENTS

                         St. Petersburg Times (Florida)

             September 06, 2001, Thursday, 0 South Pinellas Edition

Fox sets immigration reform deadline

BYLINE: PAUL DE LA GARZA

SECTION: NATIONAL; Pg. 1A

LENGTH: 775 words

DATELINE: WASHINGTON



President Vicente Fox of Mexico, the guest of honor Wednesday at President
Bush's first state dinner, sparked controversy by challenging his host to strike
an agreement on immigration reform by the end of the year.

Fox, flanked by Bush, made his remarks during a welcoming ceremony with a
military honor guard on the South Lawn of the White House Wednesday morning.

While aware of his thinking on the issue, administration officials said Fox did
not clear his remarks with the White House, or with his inner circle of
advisers.

Bush hailed bilateral relations as a "relationship of unprecedented closeness
and cooperation," but he did not embrace Fox's lofty deadline.

The White House had scripted the day with pomp and circumstance to showcase
glowing U.S.-Mexico relations under the Bush administration, and, in the
process, to boost the president's standing among Latino voters.

By the end of the day, however, administration officials were scrambling to
contain the political fallout. For weeks they had worked to lower expectations
for a deal on the politically volatile issue of immigration.

Only a day earlier, Bush had said he needed time to work with Congress to build
political support for immigration reform.

White House proposals to grant legal status to millions of illegal Mexican
immigrants living in the United States have met with fierce opposition.

Mexican government officials say the anti-immigrant backlash in the United
States is what prompted Fox to take such a bold position Wednesday.

They say it was a deliberate attempt by Fox to put pressure on the
administration to reach an agreement on Mexican migration quickly, instead of
years down the road.

In his speech at the White House, Fox said Mexican immigrants should be
recognized for the cultural and economic contributions they have made to the
United States.

"For this reason, we must, and we can, reach an agreement on migration before
the end of this very year," Fox said, adding that before his and Bush's terms
are over, it should be easier for Mexicans to migrate to the United States
legally.

For Fox, challenging Bush in his own back yard - literally - is bound to play
well in Mexico. Last July, he made history by kicking Mexico's notoriously
corrupt ruling party out of office after 70 years in power.

During his campaign, the former Coca-Cola executive pledged to fight for an open
border with the United States and for better treatment of illegal Mexican
immigrants. A series of roadblocks, however, including an intransigent Congress
and a hobbled economy, have left his promises largely unfulfilled.

And his popularity is sinking.

For those who know Fox, his stance at the White House wasn't surprising.

Known for his straight talk, he often got a good laugh on the campaign trail by
telling opponents to "tell it to your grandma."

On Wednesday, the White House wasn't laughing.

Condoleezza Rice, Bush's national security adviser, was bombarded with questions
about Fox's remarks at an afternoon news briefing.

Is setting a deadline counterproductive?

She didn't answer.

"Look," Rice said, visibly agitated, "everybody would be delighted if we could
get this done by the end of the year."

Earlier at the White House, Attorney General John Ashcroft also was asked for
his reaction to Fox's remarks. Ashcroft and Secretary of State Colin Powell are
working on the migration issue with their Mexican counterparts.

Ashcroft refused to say whether he knew in advance of the Fox challenge. He said
both sides were working to reach an agreement "as soon as possible."

"I cannot forecast an exact time," Ashcroft said. "I can tell you it's a matter
of priority."

Privately, administration officials said they would have preferred to avoid the
pressure of a public deadline.

Before Fox took the podium, Bush, who has been courting the Latino vote with an
eye toward his re-election in 2004, showered him with pageantry.

Pennsylvania Avenue was decked out in American and Mexican flags.

A military band played.

And making the morning just about perfect were a cool breeze, delicious skies
and the smell of something good cooking in the basement of the West Wing -
perhaps the pumpkin seed-crusted bison on the state dinner menu.

Bush was effusive in his praise.

And he peppered his speech with Spanish.

"A Mexican proverb tells us that que tiene un buen vecino tiene un buen amigo.
He who has a good neighbor has a good friend.

"Today, both our countries are committed to being good neighbors and good
friends. Friends deal in good faith, and disagree with respect. Friends stick
together, in good times and in bad."


LOAD-DATE: September 6, 2001

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: PHOTO, Associated Press, (2); Laura Bush wears a 'lollypop red' gown
and President George W. Bush cowboy boots to welcome Vicente Fox and Martha
Sahagun de Fox to the state dinner. ; Fox, with U.S. Sen. Dianne Feinstein,
D-Calif.

                    Copyright 2001 Times Publishing Company


                              62 of 302 DOCUMENTS

                         St. Petersburg Times (Florida)

              September 23, 2001, Sunday, 0 South Pinellas Edition

Floridians favor military response

BYLINE: ADAM C. SMITH

SECTION: NATIONAL; AMERICA RESPONDS: TERROR POLL; Pg. 1A

LENGTH: 1267 words



In the state where most of the suspected hijackers spent time before this
month's terrorist attacks, Florida voters are more worried about their family's
safety and want tighter restrictions on immigration.

A new St. Petersburg Times poll shows Florida voters overwhelming approve of the
way President Bush and Congress have handled the crisis. They also strongly back
military action by America - even if the war on terrorism lasts longer than a
year and prompts more attacks on U.S. soil.

But that support is tempered by significant concern about first identifying
those responsible for the Sept. 11 terrorist attacks that left more than 6,000
dead or missing.

Voters in the Sunshine State's ethnic melting pot overwhelmingly want more
restrictions on immigration, yet that support drops when they are asked about
specific changes. Three-fourths oppose denying foreign students admission to
American universities, and more than half oppose prohibiting U.S. flight schools
from training foreign students. Five of the suspected hijackers attended flight
schools in Florida.

A large majority of voters are willing to ease civil rights protections to fight
terrorists - but within limits. Most would support suspending due process
protections to indefinitely detain legal immigrants suspected of crimes, for
instance, but would oppose phone taps without a court order.

"People have been shocked, but we're quickly pulling our way through it. They
want to take prudent steps to increase security, but aren't going to throw out
the Constitution in the process," said pollster Larry Harris, noting the Florida
poll results mirror those of national polls.

The telephone poll of 807 registered voters in Florida was conducted Sept. 19-21
by the Washington-based Political/Media Research Inc. for the St. Petersburg
Times, along with the Orlando Sentinel, the South Florida Sun-Sentinel and three
television stations. It has a margin of error of plus or minus 3.5 percentage
points.

The numbers underscore widespread unease among Floridians as the country
continues to grieve and prepare for military action.

Roughly 70 percent of voters think the national and state economy will suffer
because of attacks. Half think their personal finances will be hurt. The Tampa
Bay area appears to be the least pessimistic region in the state, with 53
percent of voters saying the national economy will decline and 54 percent saying
the state economy will be damaged.

Personal safety is also a concern.

More than half of all voters are more worried about their family's safety since
the attacks. Forty three percent said they are more likely now to find
alternative transportation to avoid flying.

"You just don't know who to trust any more. . . . Even with all the safety
(measures), I wouldn't fly if I had to," said Dorothye Reed, a retired educator
from Tampa who participated in the poll. "My husband and I are avid football
fans, but we won't go to any games. I'm afraid about going to places where large
crowds are gathered."

That anxiety is reflected in a willingness among Floridians to grant law
enforcement more authority and give up personal conveniences in the name of
security. An overwhelming majority want armed marshals on every commercial
plane, support the ban on curbside luggage check-in at airports and would pay
for tighter security with higher ticket prices. More than half of Florida voters
would eliminate carry-on luggage.

The tragedy has united Florida just as it has America.

Just 10 months ago, the state was bitterly divided by a disputed presidential
election that ended when the U.S. Supreme Court awarded Bush a 537-vote victory
here. But with war preparations under way, Florida voters are united behind
President Bush. More than 85 percent of Democrats and 95 percent of Republicans
approve of Bush's handling of the crisis.

While more than nine in 10 African-American voters in Florida voted against Bush
for president, nearly eight in 10 of those voters now approve of Bush's handling
of the crisis.

Indeed, on most every question asked, the poll shows few significant differences
among demographic groups. The degree of support varies among different groups -
women and Democrats have slightly less appetite for military action than men and
Republicans, for example.

But typical political divisions among Floridians have all but disappeared when
it comes to this tragedy. Support for military response is as strong in the
Miami-Fort Lauderdale area as it is in the Panhandle, where there is a strong
military influence.

Still, beneath the strong support for Bush, military action and tighter security
measures, the poll points to some subtler shadings of opinion.

Roughly one in three voters support air strikes against targets connected to
Osama bin Laden only if it can be "proven beyond doubt" he was responsible for
the attacks on the Pentagon and World Trade Center. Nearly the same percentage
oppose air strikes against countries that are deemed to support bin Laden but
can't be linked to the terrorist attacks.

"There's a good degree of concern and thought going into this," said pollster
Harris. "It's, "Whatever we're going to do, let's be sure it's done right - not
necessarily cautious, but that it's measured and appropriate.' "

Pinellas Park retiree Madeline Walsh, one of those polled, reflects that
thinking. She supports air strikes but has serious qualms about ground assaults.

"I don't want to be sending our boys onto that terrain," she said, referring to
Afghanistan. "Look what happened to the Russian soldiers there."

Few states have more experience with immigrants than Florida, and the poll shows
81 percent of Florida voters want more immigration restrictions. White and black
voters are more enthusiastic about tighter immigration than Hispanics, who in
many cases have arrived in this country more recently. The Miami-Fort Lauderdale
area, which has the densest concentration of Hispanic residents, was the least
enthusiastic area of the state. Still, nearly 73 percent of voters there
approved of tougher immigration rules.

The numbers drop significantly when specific restrictions are proposed, but the
poll highlights significant suspicion of people with Middle East backgrounds.
Forty-three percent of voters said they would like to see Arabs, including U.S.
citizens, required to carry special identification and be subjected to special
security checks before boarding planes.

Zephyrhills resident Cam Milliron, a retired aircraft mechanic who was polled,
would take it even further. He thinks all people from the Middle East in America
should either be indefinitely detained or be required to check in once a week.

"During World War II, we had no terrorism here and no sabotage. All the
(Japanese) were rounded up and put in one place, and that was a good thing,"
Milliron said.

But that's precisely the sort of response that worries Mrs. Walsh from Pinellas
Park.

"Look at what we did to the Japanese in World War II," she said, referring to
the internment camps of that era. "What did we accomplish with that? To take it
out on certain people doesn't accomplish anything. We all in this country came
from some place else."

NOTE: The poll of 807 registered Florida voters was conducted Sept. 19-21 by
Political/Media Research of Washington for the St. Petersburg Times, along with
the Orlando Sentinel, the South Florida Sun-Sentinel and three Florida
television stations. The margin of error is plus or minus 3.5 percentage points
for questions posed to every respondent and greater for subgroups.


LOAD-DATE: September 24, 2001

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: GRAPH, (2); Graphs illustrating the results of a poll showing the
overwhelming support Floridians have for the president and tighter immigration
restrictions.; Graphs illustrating the results of a poll showing the
overwhelming support Floridians have for the president and tighter immigration
restrictions.

                    Copyright 2001 Times Publishing Company


                              63 of 302 DOCUMENTS

                         St. Petersburg Times (Florida)

              October 09, 2001, Tuesday, 0 South Pinellas Edition

Reforming immigration

SECTION: EDITORIAL; EDITORIALS; Pg. 14A

LENGTH: 605 words



U.S. immigration policy has made it easy for millions of foreign visitors to
enter the country and, if they wanted, to avoid scrutiny while here and overstay
their visits without consequences. The general view had been that immigrants
spent money, supplied needed labor and were generally good for the economy and,
therefore, the country. That changed on Sept. 11.

Now we know that the terrorists who are responsible for more than 6,000 deaths
took advantage of America's lax immigration practices to carry out their cruel
scheme without arousing suspicion. Fifteen of the 19 hijackers were apparently
here on legal visas, though some had stayed longer than allowed. Two were
belatedly placed on a watch list of suspected terrorists, but when authorities
went looking for them, the only address on entry documents was "Marriott Hotel,
New York." Neither was registered at New York area hotels.

It only deepens our national sorrow that terrorists intent on killing Americans
and humiliating the government were aided by the sloppy administration of
immigration laws. Reform is coming, and certain changes are needed to protect
the country from terrorists who walk freely among us. But federal officials
should make sure that any changes to immigration practices will effectively
thwart our enemies' manipulations while remaining fair to the great majority of
immigrants who are not a threat to national security.

Tighter enforcement of immigration rules will mean fewer visas are granted. It
will be unavoidable. Nearly 4.5-million visas were handed out last year for
tourism, business or education, and that meant immigration officials often spent
only a few minutes on an application. Officials at our embassies, borders and
ports need more time and background information to make good decisions.

Some critics argue that beefing up border security is a waste of resources
because there are too many immigrants and too many points of entry for
enforcement to be effective. Experience suggests otherwise. More than one
potential terrorist has been thwarted by an alert border guard. In December
1999, a suspected terrorist was caught trying to bring explosives into the
United States near Seattle, and that probably stopped a bombing campaign aimed
at millennium celebrations.

The Immigration and Naturalization Service has been slow to computerize records
and share intelligence with other relevant government agencies. That can no
longer be tolerated. The agency needs a more easily verifiable system for
identifying those who apply for visas, such as a digital thumbprint. The

database of visa holders should be updated frequently and cross-checked among
INS and law enforcement agencies.

Immigration officials should also be able to verify a foreign visitor's
whereabouts in the United States. When people overstay their visas, or when
foreign students fail to attend classes, immigration officials should have that
information so they can find those visitors and, if appropriate, deport them.

Most or all of that can be done under existing laws - with more technology,
personnel and attention to detail. So there is no reason for Congress to hastily
write new laws that deny immigrants fair and just treatment.

The days of easy entry into the United States should be over, however. Americans
were probably naive about the threats they faced from those we welcomed to our
shores. No longer.

To feel safe once again, we need an immigration policy that does everything it
can to respond to the threat of terrorism, but one that doesn't punish those who
truly want to contribute to the American experience.


LOAD-DATE: October 10, 2001

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: EDITORIAL

                    Copyright 2001 Times Publishing Company


                              64 of 302 DOCUMENTS

                         St. Petersburg Times (Florida)

             November 02, 2001, Friday, 4 State / Suncoast Edition

Tightened awareness // Four Jordanians from Tampa are held as the U.S. cracks
down on sham marriages.

BYLINE: GRAHAM BRINK

SECTION: METRO & STATE; Pg. 1B

LENGTH: 788 words

DATELINE: TAMPA



The scam is familiar: People from a foreign country pay a U.S. citizen to marry
them, paving the way for a coveted work visa and possible citizenship.

They often remain in the country for years, sometimes helping family members
pull off the same charade.

Before Sept. 11, tracking down and arresting immigrants in sham marriages was
not a priority for the federal government.

Now, to help shore up homeland security, Attorney General John Ashcroft has
commanded federal agencies like the FBI and the Immigration and Naturalization
Service to aggressively investigate immigration cases, including visa violations
and suspicious marriages.

Already, four Jordanians from Tampa have been arrested and jailed and face
deportation on charges they faked marriages to stay in the country.

"It is clear they entered into these marriages to help their immigration
status," said Steve Cole, a spokesman for the U.S. Attorney's Office in Tampa.
"They were not what we would call regular marriages."

Cole said the laws apply to everyone, and that people of Middle Eastern descent
have not been singled out. Authorities did not discuss how they concluded the
marriages were a sham or how much, if any, money changed hands.

Indicted by a grand jury Wednesday were Nasri Al Hamdan and his brother,
Montaser Hamdan Al Hamdan, and Nermine Hani Ayoub Al Khammash. Each faces one
count of knowingly entering into a marriage with a U.S  citizen for the purpose
of evading immigration laws. If convicted, they could face five years in prison
and a $ 250,000 fine.

Mohammad Basheer Al Qaryuti faces the same charge plus one count of making false
statements under oath with respect to an immigration visa. He faces up to 15
years in prison and a $ 250,000 fine.

At a 20-minute hearing in federal court Thursday, the defendants pleaded not
guilty. An Arabic translator was called in because some of the defendants had
difficulty understanding English. The prosecutor said the defendants were a
possible risk to leave the area,  and the judge ordered that they be held in
jail without bail. There was no evidence they have any connection to the
terrorist attacks.

A brother of the Al Hamdans said the defendants all knew each other. The brother
said they were born and raised in Kuwait City, but are considered citizens of
Jordan. They came to the United States after the Gulf War,  seeking freedom and
a better life, he said.

Nasri Al Hamdan has been in the country the longest, about six years, he said.
The others came in the past year or two. The brother, who did not want his name
used because  he feared reprisals from federal authorities, said Al Khammash is
pregnant.

He called the marriages legitimate. It was obvious, he said, that federal
authorities were finding any excuse they could to go after people of Arab
descent.

He said his brothers would rather be sent back to Jordan immediately than spend
the next several months in jail  and then be deported anyway.

Neal Sonnett, an immigration expert and former chairman with the American Bar
Association, said that in the past some people who faked a marriage were charged
with a crime, and others simply were deported. It's a matter of prioritizing
resources, he said.

In the current climate, prosecutors might decide to criminally charge more
defendants to justify detaining them, he said.

"Under the new laws, they cannot detain someone indefinitely without charging
them or deporting them," he said. "I'd think we will see a lot more people
facing criminal charges like these."

An INS official in the courtroom told the lawyers for the defendants that once
the criminal charges were resolved, deportation would take about 30 days,
provided the defendants did not put up a fight.

According to state records, Nasri Al Hamdan, 32, married Shawanda T. Parse in
1997. Montaser Hamdan Al Hamdan, 31, married Lori J. Guggino, 38, in March. Four
days later, Al Qaryuti, 42, married 18-year-old Amanda Cheryl Hampton. The next
month, Al Khammash, 25, married William R. Griffith, 30.

They all married in Tampa. Three had religious ceremonies; one was a civil
ceremony. According to state records, it was the first marriage for everyone
involved, except Griffith, who had been married and divorced in 1991.

The U.S. citizens involved - Parse, Guggino, Hampton and Griffith - have not
been charged with a crime and could not be reached for comment. Griffith has
been arrested several times for domestic abuse and battery, according to state
records. Guggino has several drug-related arrests, according to state records.

- Times staffers John Martin and Tamara Lush contributed to this report. Contact
Graham Brink at (813) 226-3365 or brink@sptimes.com.


LOAD-DATE: November 2, 2001

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: PHOTO, (2); Nermine Hani Ayoub Al Khammash; Gov. Jeb Bush

                    Copyright 2001 Times Publishing Company


                              65 of 302 DOCUMENTS

                         St. Petersburg Times (Florida)

                November 02, 2001, Friday, 2 Late Tampa Edition

4 accused of sham marriages

BYLINE: GRAHAM BRINK

SECTION: TAMPA & STATE; Pg. 1B

LENGTH: 790 words

DATELINE: TAMPA



The scam is familiar: People from a foreign country pay a U.S. citizen to marry
them, paving the way for a coveted work visa and possible citizenship.

They often remain in the country for years, sometimes helping family members
pull off the same charade.

Before Sept. 11, tracking down and arresting immigrants in sham marriages was
not a priority for the federal government.

Now, to help shore up homeland security, Attorney General John Ashcroft has
commanded federal agencies like the FBI and the Immigration and Naturalization
Service to aggressively investigate immigration cases, including visa violations
and suspicious marriages.

Already, four Jordanians from Tampa have been arrested and jailed, and face
possible deportation on charges they faked marriages to stay in the country.

"It is clear they entered into these marriages to help their immigration
status," said Steve Cole, a spokesman for the U.S. Attorney's Office in Tampa.
"They were not what we would call regular marriages."

Cole said the laws apply to everyone, and that people of Middle Eastern descent
have not been singled out. Authorities did not discuss how they concluded the
marriages were a sham or how much, if any, money changed hands.

Indicted by a grand jury Wednesday were Nasri Al Hamdan and his brother,
Montaser Hamdan Al Hamdan, and Nermine Hani Ayoub Al Khammash. Each faces one
count of knowingly entering into a marriage with a U.S.  citizen for the purpose
of evading immigration laws. If convicted,  each could face five years in prison
and a $ 250,000 fine.

Mohammad Basheer Al Qaryuti faces the same charge plus one count of making false
statements under oath with respect to an immigration visa. He faces up to 15
years in prison and a $ 250,000 fine.

At a 20-minute hearing in federal court Thursday, the defendants pleaded not
guilty. An Arabic translator was called in because some of the defendants had
difficulty understanding English. The prosecutor said the defendants were a
possible risk to leave the area,  and the judge ordered that they be held in
jail without bail. There was no evidence they have any connection to the
terrorist attacks.

A brother of the Al Hamdans said the defendants all knew each other. The brother
said they were born and raised in Kuwait City, but are considered citizens of
Jordan. They came to the United States after the Gulf War,  seeking freedom and
a better life, he said.

Nasri Al Hamdan has been in the country the longest, about six years, he said.
The others came in the past year or two. The brother, who did not want his name
used because  he feared reprisals from federal authorities, said Al Khammash is
pregnant.

He called the marriages legitimate. It was obvious, he said, that federal
authorities were finding any excuse they could to go after people of Arab
descent.

He said his brothers would rather be sent back to Jordan immediately than spend
the next several months in jail  and then be deported anyway.

Neal Sonnett, an immigration expert and former chairman with the American Bar
Association, said that in the past some people who faked a marriage were charged
with a crime, and others simply were deported. It's a matter of prioritizing
resources, he said.

In the current climate, prosecutors might decide to criminally charge more
defendants to justify detaining them, he said.

"Under the new laws, they cannot detain someone indefinitely without charging
them or deporting them," he said. "I'd think we will see a lot more people
facing criminal charges like these."

An INS official in the courtroom told the lawyers for the defendants that once
the criminal charges were resolved, deportation would take about 30 days,
provided the defendants did not put up a fight.

According to state records, Nasri Al Hamdan, 32, married Shawanda T. Parse in
1997. Montaser Hamdan Al Hamdan, 31, married Lori J. Guggino, 38, in March. Four
days later, Al Qaryuti, 42, married 18-year-old Amanda Cheryl Hampton. The next
month, Al Khammash, 25, married William R. Griffith, 30.

They all married in Tampa. Three had religious ceremonies; one was a civil
ceremony. According to state records, it was the first marriage for everyone
involved, except Griffith, who had been married and divorced in 1991.

The U.S. citizens involved - Parse, Guggino, Hampton and Griffith - have not
been charged with a crime and could not be reached for comment. Griffith has
been arrested several times for domestic abuse and battery, according to state
records. Guggino has several drug-related arrests, according to state records.

- Times staffers John Martin and Tamara Lush contributed to this report. Contact
Graham Brink at (813) 226-3365 or brink@sptimes.com.


LOAD-DATE: November 2, 2001

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DISTRIBUTION: TAMPA & STATE

GRAPHIC: PHOTO; Nermine Hani Ayoub Al Khammash

                    Copyright 2001 Times Publishing Company


                              66 of 302 DOCUMENTS

                         St. Petersburg Times (Florida)

              November 18, 2001, Sunday, 0 South Pinellas Edition

'Catch-22' keeps USF student jailed

BYLINE: DAVID KARP

SECTION: CITY & STATE; Pg. 1B

LENGTH: 951 words

DATELINE: TAMPA



From a telephone at the county jail, University of South Florida graduate
student Ala'a Hamed Kababji heard the good news.

Prosecutors had dropped the charges against him.

"Great," Kababji told his attorney. "I want to get back to school."

But instead of returning to USF to study chemical engineering, Kababji, a
23-year-old Jordanian national, was shipped to a jail in Bradenton for
foreigners detained on immigration violations.

His violation?

Kababji hasn't been in class since being suspended by USF and jailed Sept. 26 on
a rape charge. His visa requires he attend school while in the country.

At first, Kababji was stunned.

"Why am I (still in jail)?" he asked Asem Zaitoun, a cousin who lives in
Alabama. "This is the United States. Everyone is innocent until proven guilty."

In effect, USF suspended Kababji because of the rape charge, and he remains in
jail after the charges were dropped because of the suspension.

"I think it's a Catch-22," said Debi King, senior counsel for USF. "I don't know
exactly what can be done about it."

Even if USF reinstates Kababji, it's not clear that the Immigration and
Naturalization Service would release him, King said.

Federal law would have allowed the government to detain Kababji before the Sept.
11 terrorist attacks hastened the enforcement of immigration laws. But his
lawyer, Ralph Fernandez, thinks the government scrutinized Kababji with extra
care and insisted on jailing him because President Bush ordered a crackdown on
student visa violations.

The case shows how the government's sweep for suspected terrorists can net
innocent foreigners, Fernandez said.

"If he had not been Middle Eastern, I don't think I would have met him," he
said.

The government has not linked Kababji to terrorists, but at an INS detention
hearing, Fernandez said, immigration Judge R. Kevin McHugh asked Kababji why he
chose USF over other schools.

McHugh presided over the case against former USF language teacher Mazen
Al-Najjar, who studied engineering at USF. The Justice Department held Al-Najjar
for 3 1/2 years, claiming he had ties to the Palestinian Islamic Jihad, which
the United States considers a terrorist organization.

Al-Najjar is the brother-in-law of tenured USF computer engineering professor
Sami Al-Arian, who received death threats and was placed on a paid leave this
year after Fox News Channel host Bill O'Reilly questioned him about alleged
terrorist ties.

In immigration court, Kababji told McHugh he didn't know about the controversy
at USF when he arrived in August. He chose to attend school in Florida because
of its beaches and warm weather, he said. Kababji's father, a banker from Amman,
just wanted the best education for his oldest son, his cousin Zaitoun said.

The immigration judge did not respond to a phone call for comment. A hearing is
set for Nov. 27.

Stephen McDonald, the agent in charge of the Tampa Border Patrol office, said he
treated Kababji like any foreigner detained before Sept. 11. "We process people
from many different nationalities," McDonald said.

Agents discovered Kababji in a routine search of Hillsborough jail booking
records for foreign-born inmates, something the patrol has done for years, he
said.

"We feel an obligation to take steps to help the victim in this case," McDonald
added.

The woman who reported being raped, a 27-year-old exchange student, said she met
Kababji outside an on-campus apartment in September.

Kababji's roommates said he asked her out on first sight. He considered her a
girlfriend, but the woman told prosecutors Kababji was just a friend. Kababji's
roommates saw them together socially and didn't notice problems.

But his roommates said he treated women like second-class citizens. He
considered them property, said Jon Noble, 36, an English graduate student.

"He didn't know how to talk to American women," said Ben Straight, 22, a
sociology graduate student.

The woman told USF police that Kababji verbally abused her and threatened to
make her life a "nightmare." Kababji forced her into sex through emotional
manipulation, she told prosecutors.

But the woman also acknowledged getting condoms for Kababji. After one sexual
encounter, she thought, "I will not do that again," according to her police
statement.

Kababji's attorney said the woman accused Kababji of rape when he wouldn't
commit to marriage. He denies mistreating her.

USF police arrested him Sept. 26 and put him in the county jail. He remained
there for 29 days, until the charges were dropped. Assistant State Attorney
Michael Sinacore said prosecutors could not prove rape and decided Oct. 24 not
to prosecute.

That same day, he was transferred to a jail in Bradenton used by the INS.

Even if the INS releases Kababji, USF could still expel him on the rape charge.
Unlike prosecutors, who must prove a charge beyond a reasonable doubt, USF must
only show "substantial evidence" that Kababji broke rules.

"A behavior may violate the student code of conduct but would not violate the
law," USF spokesman Michael Reich said.

In jail, Kababji told his cousin he still loves this country.

"The United States is going through hard times," Zaitoun said. "He understands.
He knows it will only be a matter of time and he will be out."

Kababji called his USF roommates from jail and left warm messages. They didn't
call back.

They told campus officials they don't want to live with Kababji again. He has
already cost taxpayers too much money, they said.

"We tried to give him a crash course on being American," Straight said. "He
wouldn't listen. He does not fit in this society."

- David Karp can be reached at (813) 226-3376 or karp@sptimes.com.


LOAD-DATE: November 18, 2001

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: PHOTO; Ala'a Hamed Kababji

                    Copyright 2001 Times Publishing Company


                              67 of 302 DOCUMENTS

                         St. Petersburg Times (Florida)

             November 24, 2001, Saturday, 0 South Pinellas Edition

INS overreacts to student's visa

SECTION: EDITORIAL; EDITORIALS; Pg. 20A

LENGTH: 419 words



If we have learned anything since Sept. 11, it is that the Immigration and
Naturalization Service has an abysmal record of enforcing its own rules for
student visas. The INS openly acknowledges that people from other countries
coming to the U.S. ostensibly for an education will sometimes never show up for
class and that the agency too often has made little attempt to find and deport
them.

But Ala'a Hamed Kababji wasn't one of those. The 23-year-old Jordanian native
and graduate student in chemical engineering at the University of South Florida
came to Florida for an education. So why is Kababji sitting in a Bradenton jail
awaiting a determination on whether he will be deported for visa violations?
Because he is caught in a ridiculous Catch-22.

Back on Sept. 26, Kababji was arrested and imprisoned in the Hillsborough jail
on charges that he raped a fellow USF student whom he had been dating. But after
29 days in jail prosecutors determined they didn't have a case against him and
dropped the charges. After that, Kababji should have walked out of jail a free
man. Instead he was transferred to a detention facility in Bradenton on an
immigration status violation. The INS says that because he has been suspended
from classes at USF due to the rape charge, he has violated the condition of his
student visa that requires uninterrupted study. An immigration hearing on his
case is scheduled for Nov. 27.

Kababji hasn't been found guilty of any crime; he has merely been accused. Yet
that allegation has touched off a series of events that may lead to Kababji's
ouster from the country. There is something very wrong and very un-American
about this story.  While we certainly want INS to tighten its systems for
student visas, a little common sense and decency in the application of the rules
shouldn't be too much to ask. His attorney rightly questions whether, in the
wake of Sept. 11 events, Kababji would be facing deportation had he not come
from the Middle East.

USF may still pursue the sexual assault allegations against Kababji in an
administrative hearing where it may be easier to prove that Kababji violated
student conduct rules. But unless and until the university properly adjudicates
him guilty and orders his expulsion, INS should find more important work to
focus on. The agency's overreaction here only adds to its reputation as the gang
who couldn't shoot straight. Even when it is actually working to enforce student
visa rules the INS can't seem to get it right.


LOAD-DATE: November 24, 2001

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: EDITORIAL

                    Copyright 2001 Times Publishing Company


                              68 of 302 DOCUMENTS

                         St. Petersburg Times (Florida)

              November 25, 2001, Sunday, 0 South Pinellas Edition

Loopholes leave U.S. borders vulnerable

BYLINE: SYDNEY P. FREEDBERG

SECTION: NATIONAL; SPECIAL REPORT; AMERICA STRIKES; VISA VULNERABILITY; Pg. 1A

LENGTH: 3849 words



(final edited version not provided for electronic library, please see microfilm)

They used aliases and posed as tourists. They faked out diplomats abroad and
zipped through inspections at U.S. airports. Once within our borders, they
melted into the melting pot.

Then they killed.

Like millions of foreigners who come to the United States each year, the 19
hijackers who carried out the Sept. 11 attacks on America entered through the
front door, on legal visitors' visas.

They exploited a litany of loopholes in the system:

Several didn't need an interview for permission to come here.

One claimed he was coming to study English, but never showed up at school.

Three claimed they were coming for business or pleasure, but enrolled in flight
schools instead.

Two were later placed on a terrorist watch list, but no one could find them.

Two were allowed to stay after their visas expired.

Two, maybe more, apparently traveled on stolen passports, and all 19 managed to
get U.S. Social Security cards.

Inadvertently, the U.S. government rolled out a welcome mat for all of them.

While American bombers pound Afghanistan, foreign terrorists and criminals can
slip into the United States through a chaotic patchwork of immigration laws and
procedures. While commandos hit Taliban caves one by one, an overworked corps of
visa processors, customs agents and immigration inspectors struggle on the real
front line in the war against terrorism.

"We must defend all our borders," says Rep. Lamar Smith, R-Texas, a longtime
critic of U.S. immigration policies. "Air, sea and land. North, south, east and
west. It has to be a seamless garment, or the terrorists are going to seek to
come in through the weakest link."

But as the government belatedly moves to plug holes in the system, some experts
wonder if it is up to the job.

"They're taking baby steps in the right direction, but only baby steps," says
Mark Krikorian, executive director of the Center for Immigration Studies in
Washington, a research institute that has long pushed for stricter controls.

A system of contradictions

Krikorian traces the mess to America's "love-hate relationship with
immigration": We hold ourselves out to the world as the beacon of freedom, but
we're leery of foreigners who threaten our jobs or our security.

The people who run the system are caught in the cross-fire of competing
missions.

At overseas embassies and consulates, which issue visas, American diplomats have
a balancing act: They must promote U.S. commerce and travel in their host
countries while ensuring security for the American people.

At the Immigration and Naturalization Service, which enforces the law,
inspectors smooth the way for new citizens even as they try to deport growing
numbers of illegal aliens.

Members of Congress and presidents, Democrat and Republican, have a history of
mixed immigration messages as well.

Before Sept. 11, President Bush was considering an amnesty for millions of
illegals, mostly from Mexico. Now, while insisting that America is still a
welcoming country, his administration is cracking down on foreign visitors.

America rose to greatness by accepting outcasts from Europe, but the government
began closing the door in the 1880s, when the number of Chinese immigrants
soared. In 1965, Congress returned to more liberal policies, prompting a
historic surge of immigrants - an estimated 27-million, including illegals, to
date.

In the 1980s, even as the system strained to absorb new arrivals, a powerful
alliance of business and travel executives and ethnic groups pressed for looser
policies.

Krikorian and other critics say that special interest groups eager for
low-paying foreign workers have undermined immigration control by thwarting
efforts to control the borders.

In 1986, Congress chipped away at the borders. Lawmakers ordered a trial program
to let foreign visitors from designated countries into the United States for up
to 90 days without a visa.

The visa is a screening mechanism to keep out criminals and terrorists. Law
enforcement agents consider it the single most important tool for homeland
security.

The government extended and expanded visa-free travel, which was a resounding
success for the American economy, providing a golden stream of tourists, jobs
and money. But it also provided an avenue for terrorists.

In the early 1990s, lawmakers continued to pass business-friendly migration
policies.

Under one provision, they eliminated the so-called "ideological exclusion,"
making it harder to exclude people simply because they hold radical views.

Under another provision, Congress imposed a 45-minute time limit on the INS to
inspect each planeload of arriving international travelers. The measure cut down
on airport waiting times. But it also put growing pressure on airport
immigration inspectors, who often find themselves with only a minute or so per
passenger to catch impostors and potential terrorists.

Early red flags

Investigators raised concerns about the leaky system in 1993, after Islamic
fundamentalists drove a bomb-laden truck into the underground parking garage of
the World Trade Center. The explosion killed six people, injured 1,000 others
and caused more than $ 300-million in damage.

Consider this:

Six months before the attack, Ramzi Yousef, the ringleader, arrived in New York
from Pakistan on a false Iraqi passport. He came without a visa but was allowed
to stay after claiming political asylum. The INS released him because it didn't
have space in a detention facility.

Mohammed Salameh, who rented the yellow Ryder van used in the bombing, came on a
six-month tourist visa issued in Amman, Jordan, in 1988. He applied for legal
residency and was turned down, but was still able to live for years in Jersey
City, N.J., as he appealed that decision.

Eyad Ismoil, who drove the van with the bomb into the tower garage, came on a
student visa in 1989, then dropped out after three semesters at Wichita State.

Yousef's traveling companion, Ahmad Mohammed Ajaj, tried to get in on a fake
Swedish passport. But he got caught after airport inspectors found bombmaking
manuals in his luggage. Sentenced to six months in prison for passport fraud, he
still helped plan the bombing by sending messages to fellow conspirators.

The four plotters, plus two others, each got 240 years in prison. (Another
suspect, an American named Abdul Rahman Yasin, is still on the run.)

After the bombing, the State Department mounted a sweeping effort to counter
visa and passport fraud.

It shored up its out-of-date watch list of people who should not be granted
visas.

Federal inspectors cracked down on aliens as the INS mushroomed - from an agency
with a $ 1.2-billion budget and a staff of 18,000 to almost a $ 5-billion budget
and staff of more than 33,000.

At Congress' behest, the agency spent much of the money to stem the flow of
border crossers wading across the Rio Grande from Mexico.

Yet for every step the government took, the terrorists stayed one step ahead.
The 3,728-mile northern border, crossed by 100-million people a year, was still
porous, an attractive entry point for terrorists.

In some spots, Sen. Byron Dorgan, D-N.D., recently complained, the only
nighttime security is a fluorescent orange cone along a wooded road.

"The nice (travelers) put them back after driving through," he said.

Despite a growing squad of document detectives zeroing in on fake passports and
phony ID rings, Osama bin Laden and his foot soldiers found master forgers and
travel agents to arrange high-quality fraudulent papers for their operatives.

Or they used connecting flights to America from busy gateway cities such as
London, knowing U.S. immigration inspectors tend to give less scrutiny to
visa-free travelers.

As federal agents increase scrutiny of foreign visitors, investigators worry
that terrorist groups will try to enter the United States by corrupting public
employees.

Last month, Glenn A. Fine, the Justice Department's inspector general, told a
Senate subcommittee about six fraud schemes in which INS personnel got caught
accepting bribes or falsifying official documents to let foreign aliens stay in
the country.

Visa Express

Although the INS has taken much of the heat since Sept. 11, many of the problems
began at two U.S. State Department offices in Saudi Arabia. That's where 15 of
the 19 hijackers took the first step in their quest to enter the United States.

Federal agents are investigating whether any got their official papers under
false pretenses.

Some of the hijackers got tourist visas to come here after reportedly honing
their explosives skills at terrorist training camps in Afghanistan.

The U.S. government opened the door for at least two - and possibly as many as
nine - who used stolen passports, said Gaafar Allagany, chief of the information
department at the Saudi Embassy in Washington.

And in May 2001, Hazma S.A. Alghamdi, also known as Hamza Alghamdi, arrived with
a U.S. stamp of approval even though Finland turned him away. The Fins concluded
after a background investigation that he lied on his visa application.

Investigators say Alghamdi, who lived in Delray Beach last summer, helped hijack
United Airlines Flight 175 and crash it into the south tower of the World Trade
Center.

"All of those people's names were run through our name check system," Mary Ryan,
an assistant secretary of state, told a congressional panel last month. "We had
nothing on any of them."

Ryan said the consular officers who granted the visas did nothing wrong. But
before Sept. 11, the State Department's Office of Inspector General found that
obtaining visas by fraud was "a constant problem" because of poorly trained
officers, lax supervisors and "serious management deficiencies."

In 1996, a consular officer in Jerusalem approved a visa for Lafi Khalil to stay
in the United States briefly en route to Ecuador. The officer later told
investigators that the interview and review of his visa application took about
three minutes. She didn't ask Khalil for his address in Israel, his ticket to
Ecuador or how he would support himself. He didn't even sign the visa
application.

Seven months later, police arrested Khalil and a fellow Palestinian in Brooklyn
after a tip that they planned to bomb the New York City subway system.

"The '90s were a terrible, terrible decade for the State Department," Ryan said.
"I think consular officers around the world are stretched just about as thin as
they can possibly be. We do not have the personnel resources that we need to do
the job the way it should be done."

Several former visa officers blame a culture that puts efficiency and foreign
policy above U.S. security - a charge the State Department denies.

Michael Springmann, a consular officer in Jeddah, Saudi Arabia, from 1987 to
1989, said he issued more than 100 visas to unqualified applicants after
pressure from his State Department bosses.

"Keep the Saudis happy," Springmann said he was told, apparently because they
are America's biggest supplier of crude oil.

He said he later learned that visas went to terrorists recruited by the CIA and
bin Laden to train in the United States for the war against the then-Soviet
Union in Afghanistan.

"There is a strong fellowship between the U.S. and Saudi Arabia that sees
through different eyes when it comes to Boeing, military installations and oil
deals," added Michael Wildes, an immigration lawyer who has represented Saudi
defectors and terror suspects.

After the Persian Gulf War in 1991, the visa situation became murkier. FBI
agents complained that their Saudi counterparts hampered investigations into
terror attacks, including a 1996 bombing on Dhahran that killed 19 U.S.
servicemen. The Americans also suspected that the Saudi monarchy was doing
little to root out terrorism on Saudi soil and to stop anti-American threats.

Yet, instead of tightening visa requirements, the U.S. government made it easier
for Saudi visitors to come to America. Under a program called U.S. Visa Express,
introduced four months before the Sept. 11 attacks, Saudis were allowed to
arrange visas through 10 travel agencies - often without coming to the U.S.
Embassy or consulate for interviews.

Before Sept. 11, critics say, people from other Middle Eastern countries had a
far tougher time getting visas.

The State Department counters that it approved Visa Express because Saudis were
not known for using fraudulent travel documents and had a good record of
complying with visa requirements.

Ryan told Congress she didn't know if any of the Sept. 11 hijackers gave false
information on their visa applications, though she said there is no evidence of
forgery.

State Department spokesmen deny a link between any of the terror suspects and
the Visa Express program. They also say there is no indication the hijackers had
a connection to Abdulla Noman, an alleged visa vendor who worked for the U.S.
Commerce Department in the consulate in Jeddah.

Noman was charged earlier this month with accepting bribes to arrange visas for
Saudi nationals entering the United States.

"He was the go-to man for people getting false visas in Saudi Arabia," Assistant
U.S. Attorney Howard Zlotnick told a magistrate in Las Vegas. "It's no secret
that the individuals on Sept. 11 came from Saudi Arabia with visas. The nature
of that crime clearly poses a risk to the community until the FBI investigates
who he provided visas to."

Missing links

A "colossal intelligence failure" led to the hijackings, the State Department's
Ryan told Congress.

"We cannot be the outer ring of border security if we don't get information on
people who seek to harm our country from intelligence and law enforcement
agencies," she said, pointing a finger at the FBI for refusing to share
information on possible terrorists.

Fine, the Justice Department's inspector general, noted that a 1999 audit had
revealed a series of missing links in the FBI's handling of information. Agents
sometimes forgot to enter important information into their database, and even
when the information was there, they sometimes failed to find it.

There are dozens of computerized government watch lists designed to flag and
stop criminals, terrorists, smugglers, extremists and visa violators. But the
computer systems sometimes aren't programmed to talk to each other or can miss a
terrorist simply if his name is translated with multiple spellings.

For weeks following the attacks, the INS had trouble figuring out the visa
statuses of some of the hijackers because of different spellings on flight
manifests and varying dates of birth.

Though the INS dismissed many of the complaints, auditors had been especially
critical, before Sept. 11, of the agency's handling of information. Michael
Bromwich, a former Justice Department inspector general, said the INS systems
were so archaic and questionably managed that his investigators couldn't tell if
a $ 2.6-billion technology upgrade was on schedule, within cost limits, or
worked.

The names of four hijackers were apparently known to federal agents, but the
information never made it to the right people in time. The New York Times
reported that terror suspects Ahmed Alghamdi and Satam Al Suqami had been linked
by a previous U.S. Customs Service investigation to al-Qaida operatives. In
addition, Nawaf Alhazmi, also known as Nawaq Alhamzi, and Khalid Al Mihdhar, who
had four aliases, were placed on a watch list after the CIA connected them to
bin Laden.

But even the most complete watch list won't catch a killer who sneaks across a
Canadian field. The most solid intelligence at home won't stop a terrorist whose
homeland refuses to share information about suspect travelers. And U.S.
officials say that in many foreign countries, law enforcement checks would be
useless.

"You can buy them," Ryan said in her congressional testimony. "There's little
purpose in trying to check the background of people who can, in effect, pay to
get a clean police certificate."

Once within our borders, foreigners get lost in America.

Many of the Sept. 11 hijackers blended in by building new identities with
different names and dates of birth. They paid ID salesmen $ 50 or $ 100 for fake
addresses or phony driver's licenses, which they could use as identification to
board planes. They collected bank records and residency forms.

All 19 managed to get our national identifier - a Social Security card. The
Social Security Administration says that six hijackers may have "fraudulently
obtained" the cards.

The INS readily admits it has no system to track foreigners, no way of knowing
whether visitors admitted on visas actually leave the country.

Under the current procedure, an airport immigration inspector completes a form
for each arriving visitor, showing how long that visitor is allowed to stay. On
the departing flight, airlines are supposed to collect the other half of the
form and send it to the INS. But they often don't collect the forms, or
foreigners forget to turn them in. In any event, there often is no trace of
their departure.

The Justice Department said last week that two suspects, Nawaf Alhazmi and Satam
Al Suqami, had become illegal after their visas expired. A third, Hani Hanjour,
had a visa to study English, but failed to show up for class in Oakland, Calif.

"Just kind of disappeared in the country," Ryan said.

In 1996, Congress ordered the INS to set up a system to track aliens entering
and leaving the country. A second nationwide data base would have kept track of
foreign students.

Special interests derailed the systems. The Chamber of Commerce, Canadian
officials, U.S. diplomats, immigration lawyers and travel executives complained
that an entry-exit system would create long lines at the borders and slow
commerce in border cities like Detroit.

Likewise, education groups objected to the foreign-student database because it
could financially cripple some universities and stigmatize students.

But even with tracking systems, the INS admits it couldn't keep tabs on all the
foreign visitors. With only 1,950 agents nationwide (fewer than the District of
Columbia police force), they don't normally go after people on lapsed visas.
They focus instead on aliens who commit more serious crimes.

"There are lots of priorities out there," Michael Becraft, acting deputy
commissioner of the INS, told a congressional committee. "We have terrorists. We
have criminal aliens. And we have had to prioritize in the past because we just
don't have enough folks to go around."

- Times researchers Kitty Bennett and Caryn Baird contributed to this report.

Fixing the problem

Since the Sept. 11 attacks, the U.S. government has mounted a sweeping effort to
tighten immigration policies. It has:

Created a foreign terrorist tracking task force designed to stop suspected
terrorists from entering the country.

Stepped up enforcement against petty immigration offenses and detained hundreds
of immigration violators, including foreigners who stay in the country after
their visas expire.

Redeployed inspectors to the U.S.-Canada border and vowed better coordination of
policies with Canada and Mexico.

Promised to boost resources for the Immigration and Naturalization Service, U.S.
Customs Service and Department of State to support an aggressive homeland
defense strategy.

Moved to restructure the INS by creating two separate bureaus. One will be
responsible for combating illegal immigration. The other will be responsible for
processing legal immigrants' claims for employment and asylum, among other
services.

Ordered federal agencies to share intelligence information and integrate their
watch lists so people with terrorist ties are kept out of the country.

Instructed U.S. embassies and consulates abroad to conduct stricter background
checks before granting visas to visitor-applicants from certain Middle Eastern
countries, including Saudi Arabia.

Announced a review of visa-free travel for foreigners from six countries.

Vowed to automate INS systems to track foreign students and visitors.

Considered use of "biometric" identifiers on official travel documents, such as
fingerprints or eye retinas, to make positive identification of potential
terrorists easier.

Who visits the U.S.?

Since the mid 1980s, the number of foreign visitors to this country has soared
to 31,446,000 in 1999.

Top countries of origin

Japan: 4,900,000 (16 percent)

United Kingdom: 4,336,000 (14 percent)

Mexico: 3,787,000 (12 percent)

Germany: 2,120,000 (7 percent)

Types of visas

In order to visit this country, all foreigners (except Canadians) must have a
valid passport. In addition, many foreign visitors must have a visa. There are
57 categories of visas; some of the most common are tourist, business and
student visas.

Tourist: 77%

Business: 15%

Other: 5%

Student: 2%

Temporary work: 1%

Visa-free travel

To get a visa, a foreigner goes to a U.S. embassy or consulate abroad. There, a
visa officer checks the application, insures that the visit will be temporary
and checks the name against a "lookout list" of criminals, terrorists or others
deemed inadmissable.

The United States allows visa-free travel for up to 90 days with 29 countries
designated by the attorney general and secretary of state. There are no Middle
Eastern countries on that list, but some terrorists from that region slip in
through one of the so-called "visa-waiver countries." Here is a list of those
"visa-waiver countries," in descending order, according to number of visitors
(Canadians are exempt from U.S. visa requirements).

Japan, United Kingdom, Germany, France, Italy, Netherlands, Australia,
Argentina, Spain, Switzerland, Ireland, Sweden, Belgium, Austria, New Zealand,
Denmark, Norway, Finland, Iceland, Slovenia, Luxembourg, Portugal, Singapore,
Uruguay, Liechtenstein, Monaco, Andorra, Brunei, San Marino

Points of destination

There are more than 250 air, sea and land points of entry to the United States.
Upon arrival, each visitor is screened by an Immigration and Naturalization
Services inspector. States that are the most often intended destination of
foreign visitors:

Florida: 5,580,000 (18 percent)

California: 4,355,000 (14 percent)

New York: 4,027,000 (13 percent)

Hawaii: 1,944,000 (6 percent)

Texas: 1,716,000 (5 percent)

Data estimated for last quarter of 1979 and no data available for 1980 and 1997.

Source: 1999 Statistical Yearbook of the Immigration and Naturalization Service,
Times research

Increased security has caused long delays at the U.S.-Canadian border in Blaine,
Wash. In 1996, Congress ordered an entry/exit system formed, but special
interests stopped that idea.

Customs officials use a drug dog to screen cars before they arrive at the San
Ysidro Port of Entry on the first day of 100 percent ID checks.

Naturalization section at JFK International Airport in New York.

Airport, goes through the luggage of an unidentified traveler

they arrive at the San Ysidro Port of Entry.

1975-99.


LOAD-DATE: November 25, 2001

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: PHOTO, ASSOCIATED PRESS; PHOTO, REUTERS; SPECIAL TO THE TIMES, DEAN
RUTZ; PHOTO, SPECIAL TO THE TIMES, JOHN GIBBINS; GRAPH (4); Passengers line up
for processing at the Immigration and; Lillian Gonzalez, a U.S. Customs agent at
Miami International; A post marking the U.S.-Canadian border in Blaine, Wash.
near the line of cars waiting at a checkpoint.; Customs officials use a drug dog
to screen cars before; Line graph showing the number of foreign visitors to the
U.S.; Bar graph showing the top four countries of origin for foreign visitors to
the U.S. with numers and percentages.; Pie graph showing the percentages of
different types of visas acquired by foreign visitors.; Bar graph showing the
top five destinations for foreign visitors

                    Copyright 2001 Times Publishing Company


                              69 of 302 DOCUMENTS

                         St. Petersburg Times (Florida)

             November 28, 2001, Wednesday, 0 South Pinellas Edition

Ashcroft: U.S. will win Al-Najjar case

BYLINE: MARY JACOBY

SECTION: NATIONAL; Pg. 3A

LENGTH: 517 words

DATELINE: WASHINGTON



Attorney General John Ashcroft expressed confidence Tuesday that the government
would prevail in its five-year effort to deport Mazen Al-Najjar.

"I believe that the government will be successful in his deportation. Yes, I
do," Ashcroft said at a news conference. He did not elaborate.

Immigration and Naturalization Service agents arrested Al-Najjar Saturday
outside his Tampa apartment after a federal appeals court in Atlanta affirmed
his deportation order on Nov. 13.

A Palestinian who overstayed a student visa, Al-Najjar was jailed for 3 1/2
years while he fought deportation because the government said classified
intelligence information linked him to Palestinian Islamic Jihad, a terrorist
group.

He was released last year after a federal judge in Miami ruled his due process
rights had been violated because the government would not reveal enough of the
classified evidence to allow him to mount a defense.

The government is now working to secure his entry into the United Arab Emirates,
the country where Al-Najjar last lived before entering the United States in 1981
and the country to which an immigration judge ordered him deported in 1997.

While it appears that Al-Najjar's long-running battle to stay in the United
States is nearing an end, his brother-in-law, Sami Al-Arian, suggested
otherwise.

"The way I read the rules, if the government decides to deport him anywhere
other than the (United Arab) Emirates, he can challenge the decision, which
could take another two years," Al-Arian said Monday. "Even if it is the
Emirates, he'll have some avenues to challenge."

INS spokeswoman Karen Kraushaar declined to comment on the possibility for
further procedural delays, saying only, "we're confident we'll be able to
deport" Al-Najjar.

In 1995, federal authorities opened an investigation into whether Al-Najjar and
Al-Arian were using a University of South Florida think tank and charity as
front organizations to raise funds for Palestinian Islamic Jihad, a group that
has claimed responsibility for suicide bombings in Israel.

The investigation did not result in criminal charges, although Al-Najjar was
apprehended on a visa violation.

Instead of releasing Al-Najjar on bail while his deportation case moved through
the courts, the INS detained him from May 1997 until December 2000, citing the
classified information.

An immigration judge who reviewed the secret evidence in 1997 agreed that it
showed Al-Najjar to be a national security threat.

But a federal judge in Miami who declined to review the secret evidence, ruled
last year that the government must either reveal the information or free
Al-Najjar.

Al-Najjar's arrest on Saturday was not made on the basis of the classified
information but because his deportation appeals had run out. His lawyers are
preparing to ask the Supreme Court to review his case but have not yet done so.

He is being held at the Coleman Federal Correctional Complex near Bushnell,
about 75 miles north of the Tampa Bay area in rural Sumter County.

- Times Staff Writer Graham Brink contributed to this report.


LOAD-DATE: November 28, 2001

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: PHOTO; Mazen Al-Najjar

                    Copyright 2001 Times Publishing Company


                              70 of 302 DOCUMENTS

                         St. Petersburg Times (Florida)

             December 05, 2001, Wednesday, 0 South Pinellas Edition

Wanted Pakistani is found in custody

BYLINE: LUCY MORGAN

SECTION: CITY & STATE; Pg. 5B

LENGTH: 529 words

DATELINE: TALLAHASSEE



A Pakistani man wanted in North Florida for being in the country illegally has
been in federal custody in New York since Oct. 18.

Mohammad Ahmad Mehboob, 33, was arrested at Champlain, N.Y., about two weeks
after FBI agents in Florida questioned him in connection with a trip he made to
New York City about the time of the terrorist attacks.

Mehboob was turned over to U.S. immigration officials by Canadian authorities
after he was denied entry to Canada, according to Assistant U.S. Attorney Rob
Storch in Albany, N.Y.

Mehboob apparently had been living in the Tallahassee area for more than a year,
working as a mechanic at an Exxon service station about a five-minute drive from
the state Capitol. He used the station address as his home address when he
obtained a driver's license in October 2000. He told Florida driver's license
authorities he was a resident of Canada and used a Pakistani passport as
identification.

Interim U.S. Attorney Tom Kirwin of Tallahassee said Tuesday that he is
attempting to determine why federal authorities in Florida did not know that
Mehboob was already in custody when charges were filed Oct. 26 in federal court
in Tallahassee.

"How this happened, we don't know," Kirwin said. "It should have been entered in
the NCIC (National Crime Information Center)."

It would appear that Immigration and Naturalization Service officials in Florida
also did not know he was in the custody of INS officials in New York. Mehboob
appeared in federal court in Albany Nov. 16 and pleaded guilty to being in the
country illegally. Sentencing is set for March 22.

Immigration officials in New York refused to discuss the arrest, saying they are
following a blanket policy against discussing any case that might be connected
to the Sept. 11 attacks.

Mehboob has been caught illegally entering the United States three times in the
past four years and served a 30-day jail sentence in 1999.

Mehboob fled from police in New York City on Sept. 11 shortly after the World
Trade Center was hit. He was traced to Tallahassee through airplane tickets left
in a van in Brooklyn.

When FBI agents questioned him Oct. 1 in Havana, a small town north of
Tallahassee, Mehboob admitted being in New York on Sept. 11 and said the
tickets, issued in another name, were his. He told authorities he was in New
York on a sightseeing trip. The airplane ticket left in the van included a Sept.
11 return flight to Orlando, said an affidavit filed in federal court in
Florida.

Kirwin could not explain why Mehboob was not detained and questioned further but
said federal authorities have no reason to believe he was connected to the
terrorist incidents in New York and Washington.

Kirwin said authorities are uncertain what Mehboob was doing in the Tallahassee
area but did learn that he frequented an Islamic center and made friends with
other people of Middle Eastern descent.

State and local officials in North Florida say federal officials did not tell
them Mehboob was in the Tallahassee area at the time despite their being
responsible for the security of the governor and state Capitol.

- Researcher Kitty Bennett contributed to this report.


LOAD-DATE: December 5, 2001

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                    Copyright 2001 Times Publishing Company


                              71 of 302 DOCUMENTS

                         St. Petersburg Times (Florida)

              December 18, 2001, Tuesday, 0 South Pinellas Edition

INS holds man with ties to suspected terror aid group

SOURCE: Compiled from Times Wires

SECTION: NATIONAL; NOTEBOOK; AMERICA STRIKES; Pg. 8A

LENGTH: 148 words

DATELINE: DETROIT



A Muslim who serves on the board of a group suspected of funding terrorism has
been detained by federal immigration officials on a visa violation, his attorney
said Monday.

Lawyer Ashraf Nubani said his client, Rabih Haddad, was detained by the
Immigration and Naturalization Service on Friday, the same day federal agents
raided the offices of Global Relief Foundation of Bridgeview, Ill. Haddad, 41,
is on the group's board of trustees.

INS officials refused to comment on the case and the FBI referred all questions
to the immigration agency. Nubani said INS officials told him Haddad, a Lebanese
native who lives in Ann Arbor, would be held without bail or a detention
hearing. He has a wife and four children here.

The assets of the foundation have been frozen by the federal government because
it the group is among those suspected of funding terrorist activities.


LOAD-DATE: December 18, 2001

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: DIGEST

                    Copyright 2001 Times Publishing Company


                              72 of 302 DOCUMENTS

                         St. Petersburg Times (Florida)

             December 20, 2001, Thursday, 0 South Pinellas Edition

Freedom sought for Al-Najjar

BYLINE: MARY JACOBY

SECTION: NATIONAL; Pg. 14A

LENGTH: 629 words

DATELINE: WASHINGTON



Lawyers for Mazen Al-Najjar on Wednesday challenged the Immigration and
Naturalization Service's authority to label him a national security threat and
keep him in jail pending the outcome of his deportation case.

The complaint before U.S. District Judge Joan Lenard in Miami also challenged
the government's right to keep Al-Najjar in solitary confinement at Coleman
Federal Correctional Complex, about 75 miles north of Tampa Bay in Sumter
County.

"If they do not immediately release him, we are asking that they give him the
same housing conditions as general prisoners," said his Tampa attorney, Martin
Schwartz.

Another attorney, David Cole, said, "The only legitimate basis for locking him
up is if he's a danger to national security." But there is no public evidence
that suggests Al-Najjar is a threat, Cole said.

The government, Cole said, merely reasserts allegations of terrorist ties that
an immigration judge last year found to be not supported by the publicly
released evidence.

"We argue this is unconstitutional," Cole said.

A Palestinian and longtime Tampa resident, Al-Najjar was arrested Nov. 24 after
a federal appeals court affirmed the government's right to deport him for
overstaying a student visa that expired in the 1980s.

Al-Najjar had already spent 3 1/2 years in prison on the basis of classified
intelligence information the government said linked him to Palestinian Islamic
Jihad, a terrorist group.

He was released from his first jail term in December 2000 after Lenard ruled
that Al-Najjar's due-process rights were violated when the government refused to
share enough of the classified information for him to mount a defense.

But there are many nuances to the law for noncitizens like Al-Najjar. As an
immigration violator he enjoys some, but not all, of the constitutional
protections afforded citizens.

One important legal wrinkle is the status of his deportation case. Al-Najjar has
been fighting deportation since 1997, but his appeals ran out on Nov. 13 when
the 11th U.S. Circuit Court of Appeals in Atlanta issued a final deportation
order that his lawyers have not appealed.

At that point, Al-Najjar lost the legal protection against incarceration that he
had since Lenard ordered him released last year, the government says.

The 11th Circuit Court of Appeals agreed, saying the attorney general has
"unambiguous authority" and "unfettered power" to keep noncitizens who are under
final deportation orders off the street if they are deemed a threat to society
or national security.

The opinion echoes a Supreme Court ruling this year in Zadvydas vs. Davis in
which the court found there are "special circumstances" for keeping some
deportable aliens in jail.

Al-Najjar's brother-in-law is Sami Al-Arian, a tenured University of South
Florida professor under investigation for terrorist links since 1995, when the
FBI raided a USF think tank he formed that employed Al-Najjar.

On Wednesday, USF president Judy Genshaft said she would move to fire Al-Arian
because controversy surrounding the allegations of his terrorist ties has
disrupted university operations.

Neither Al-Arian, a legal permanent resident, nor Al-Najjar has ever been
charged with a crime. Both have denied any connection to terrorism.

As a stateless Palestinian, Al-Najjar has said no country will accept him. But
the government is working through diplomatic channels to get him accepted in the
United Arab Emirates, the country where he lived before moving to the United
States in 1981.

But Cole said Wednesday the UAE only issues temporary visas to noncitizens and
will not do so for Al-Najjar unless he has "a country to return to," which he
does not. Officials at the UAE embassy in Washington did not return phone calls.


LOAD-DATE: December 20, 2001

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: PHOTO; Mazen Al-Najjar

                    Copyright 2001 Times Publishing Company


                              73 of 302 DOCUMENTS

                         St. Petersburg Times (Florida)

                           December 30, 2001, Sunday

Transfer policy for detainee has been abused

BYLINE: ROBYN E. BLUMNER

SECTION: PERSPECTIVE; Pg. 1D

LENGTH: 825 words



In an almost comic moment at the recent Senate Judiciary Committee hearings on
Attorney General John Ashcroft's terrorism investigation, Wisconsin Sen. Russ
Feingold raised concerns over the problems detainees were having accessing
lawyers. In some cases, detainees reported being moved from place to place so
their attorneys couldn't locate them. Others said they were given little or no
opportunity to communicate with counsel.

"I want your commitment, Mr. Attorney General, that everyone in detention will
get a lawyer, and will be able to consult with them," Feingold challenged. "Can
you give me that commitment?"

"Well, no, I can't," Ashcroft responded. "I cannot force lawyers on individuals
who refuse lawyers."

Never let it be said that our attorney general wasn't sensitive to the rights of
immigrants to be free from the burdens of having legal representation. If people
held secretly by our government for months on end don't want a lawyer versed in
the ins and outs of complicated immigration law, well, dag-gone-it, they don't
have to have one, and our attorney general will see to it.

After his glib aside, Ashcroft went on to answer that he could make lists of
lawyers available to the detainees (already a requirement under federal
regulations, though the lists provided are notoriously inaccurate), but that the
INS does not appoint attorneys to immigrants at the government's expense the way
they are provided for indigent criminal defendants.

He was right on that score. While the courts have recognized that immigrants
facing deportation have a right to be represented by a lawyer, they don't have a
right to have the government provide one. Which means they either pay for one,
find a lawyer willing to work pro bono, or remain unrepresented at their
immigration proceedings. Ninety percent of immigrants under INS custody end up
in the last category.

The lucky few who do have lawyers find that the INS engages in practices,
deliberate or not, that keeps them from their lawyer's counsel.

When Dr. Al-Badr Al-Hazmi, a Saudi Arabian doctor living in San Antonio, was
arrested on Sept. 12 by the FBI, his attorney Cynthia Orr said she literally
couldn't locate him for six days. During his 13 days in custody, Al-Hazmi was
moved to three different holding facilities.

This might seem like a special hardship reserved for those detainees picked up
following the Sept. 11 attacks, but immigrant advocates say transferring
immigrants without telling their lawyers and failing to give jailed immigrants
reasonable access to telephones is just business as usual.

"These problems have been chronic problems in the system that have been coming
to light because of the current attention to detainees," said Christopher
Nugent, director of the American Bar Association's Immigration Pro Bono
Development Project. "It's just reflective of shortcomings in the system. The
way it's been structured doesn't really facilitate full access. . . . There has
always been problems with getting information about individual detainees.
Sometimes they even lose track of where a detainee's been moved to."

About 20,000 immigrants are currently in INS detention awaiting asylum hearings
or other proceeding. Though they are not considered criminals, more than 60
percent are held in county jails and state prisons the agency contracts with
around the country. The INS claims that every bed regardless of where it is
situated, is national, and it may therefore transfer detainees anywhere and at
anytime.

"In the mid-west, there are no INS processing centers, so detainees are held in
county jails scattered all over the mid-west," said attorney Amy Stern, formerly
with the Midwest Immigrant Rights Center, in an ABA report. Typically, we would
. . . think that the detainee was at one jail, drive three hours to see him,
only to find out that he had been transferred to another jail. This happened
frequently,"

In the same report, Joan Friedland, an attorney formerly with the Florida
Immigrant Advocacy Center, said "It's not unusual to see detainees . . .
transferred up to 10 times."

Transfers can be made across the country with no advance notice to the detainee
or his lawyer and there is no appeal. Often detainees are prevented from taking
any personal items with them, including their phone books or attorney cards.

You can see how this situation makes it absurdly difficult for legal aid
attorneys to provide representation, and how recruiting lawyers to take these
cases pro bono would be virtually impossible. Who would volunteer to play cat
and mouse with the INS as your client is hop-scotched around the country?

Attention may have focused on the legal rights of the 1,200 people detained
since the Sept. 11 attacks, but the problem of attorney access is a systemwide
failure. The transfer policy is particularly abusive and seems to have been used
in a way to make detainees just that much more helpless.


LOAD-DATE: December 31, 2001

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: COLUMN

                    Copyright 2001 Times Publishing Company


                              74 of 302 DOCUMENTS

                         St. Petersburg Times (Florida)

                            January 20, 2002, Sunday

Fair deportation is best for security

BYLINE: ROBYN E. BLUMNER

SECTION: PERSPECTIVE; Pg. 8D

LENGTH: 826 words



The announcement came and went with barely a notice and, beyond Arab-American
and Muslim groups, barely a whimper of protest. The Immigration and
Naturalization Service said even though a majority of the 314,000 immigrants who
have skipped out on their deportation orders are from Latin America, the agency
is going after men from certain Middle Eastern and Muslim countries first. Same
goes for student visa violators.

Our government has bluntly declared that it is enforcing laws selectively
against a group of people on the basis of their nationality, and no one's
raising an eyebrow. Well, I for one object. Even after Sept. 11, equal
protection of law has meaning.

"Don't be a blind fool," my critics will say. "The terrorist threat is coming
from a certain community. It would be political correctness ad absurdem to
ignore this reality. The men the government is targeting for deportation are
here illegally. Our government is merely enforcing immigration laws in a way
that will enhance American security."

I understand the intrinsic appeal of this argument. But I believe our
Arabs-first efforts are wrongheaded from both a civil liberties and safety
perspective.

Safety first. There is no evidence that any of the estimated 6,000 illegal alien
absconders from Arab nations are associated with terrorist acts. (If there were,
they would have been arrested.) In fact, INS Commissioner James Ziglar, in
announcing the program in December, specifically stated that this was not part
of the government's antiterrorism efforts. What we do know is these policies are
antagonizing and marginalizing the community of legal Muslims and Middle
Easterners in the United States. "If you add this new policy with several others
announced by this administration," Ibrahim Hooper of the Council on
American-Islamic Relations told the New York Times, ". . . the effect is to
create a perception in the Muslim and Arab-American community that there is a
two-tier legal system."

These communities are our most pivotal allies in combating Islamic militants,
yet we are pushing them away and pushing some individuals, no doubt, into the
arms of extremists.

Targeting Muslims for disparate treatment only gives ammunition to those in the
rest of the world who would cultivate hate against our nation. Nineteen Muslim
hijackers and a Saudi mastermind may have started it, but it is our government
that has made thousands of Arabs and Muslims the enemy within. How will our
selective deportations play in Saudi Arabia, Pakistan and Iran, where clerics
can mock our facile promise of blind justice? The move makes us look
anti-Muslim, further driving a wedge between us and the moderates in the Islamic
world. No, this is not a way to make us safer.

As to civil liberties, the INS is defying the guiding principle of our system of
justice, which is that guilt is an individual undertaking, not something that
can be ascribed to an ethnic group.

Every person who is in this country illegally should be deported, but it is not
constitutionally acceptable to focus enforcement efforts on certain
nationalities before others, even if, as the INS claims, it has limited
resources and has to start somewhere.

Tracking down and deporting Middle Eastern absconders because a handful of
Muslims have proven to be terrorists is like enforcing speeding laws against
young, black males, since there is a greater likelihood of catching dangerous
criminals in the process. Hey, the Highway Patrol can't catch every speeder so
why not put the resources where they would do the most good?

Some would say that the terrorist threat is different, that black males didn't
kill 3,000 people. And they'd be right, FBI statistics show that in the year
2000, black men were arrested for killing 6,809 people - more than all other
racial and ethnic groups combined.

But regardless of the statistics, racial profiling in law enforcement is
pernicious. Crime statistics don't say anything about the culpability of an
individual black man and no man should be a suspect due to the bad acts of
others who look like him. The same holds true for Middle Easterners and
terrorism. The fact that the terrorists have come from Arab countries (though
with some noted exceptions) doesn't say anything about the culpability of
individual Arabs.

In 1886, the U.S. Supreme Court said San Francisco couldn't drive Chinese
immigrants out of the laundry business by selectively enforcing a law banning
wooden laundries. Using the law as a club against groups of foreign nationals is
a violation of our Constitution's equal protection guarantees, said the court.

Whether immigrants facing deportation, as opposed to criminal prosecution, could
successfully make the same claim is an open legal question. Regardless of the
law, however, our long-term safety is best served when we are seen as fair and
evenhanded. This is not an "us" against "them" situation, but we're making it
one.


LOAD-DATE: January 20, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: COLUMN

                    Copyright 2002 Times Publishing Company


                              75 of 302 DOCUMENTS

                         St. Petersburg Times (Florida)

                 March 02, 2002, Saturday, 2 Late Tampa Edition

Judge scolds immigrant with sham marriage

BYLINE: GRAHAM BRINK

SECTION: TAMPA & STATE; Pg. 3B

LENGTH: 489 words

DATELINE: TAMPA



Shackled at the ankles, Nasri Al Hamdan came to court Friday knowing he would
likely receive a sentence of time served and automatic deportation for pleading
guilty to entering into a sham marriage.

But first, U.S. District Judge Elizabeth Kovachevich gave him a tongue-lashing.

"I don't think we know your true motives," the judge said. "And I want the
record to reflect that you know that I know that."

To help shore up homeland security after Sept. 11, Attorney General John
Ashcroft commanded federal agencies like the FBI and the Immigration and
Naturalization Service to aggressively investigate immigration cases, including
visa violations and suspicious marriages.

In Tampa, Hamdan, who is Jordanian, and three others were charged with entering
into sham marriages to stay in the United States. The Americans posing as the
spouses admitted being paid between $ 150 and $ 200 a month.

Federal investigators detained Hamdan and the others in November after getting a
tip that they might be part of an al-Qaida cell, an attorney for one of the
detainees said earlier this year.

Al Hamdan and the others vehemently denied ties to al-Qaida or other terrorist
groups. Steve Cole, a spokesman for the U.S. Attorney's Office, said later that
his office had no reason to believe that they were involved in terrorist
activities.

According to state records, Al Hamdan, 32, married Shawanda T. Parse in 1997.
Parse and the other Americans involved in the sham marriages were not arrested.

Parse had a baby during the marriage, but court officials said it was not Al
Hamdan's. Al Hamdan also had his driver's license renewed at least once and
received replacement licenses three times.

Kovachevich questioned him as to why he needed so many licenses and whether
anyone else might be using those licenses. She also asked about "large amounts"
of money he received and all the fraudulent credit charges he rolled up. Al
Hamdan faces several fraud charges in state court, although the lawyers
indicated those charges might be dropped if Al Hamdan is indeed deported.

"What that money has been used for we know not," the judge said.

On the advice of his lawyer, Al Hamdan did not answer the judge's questions. He
said in a soft voice that he came to America after seeing how well Americans in
Kuwait lived after the Gulf War in the early 1990s.

Nermine Hani Ayoub Al Khammash, one of the other three Jordanians arrested
around the same time as Al Hamdan, received similar sentences earlier this year.

His brother, Montaser Hamdan Al Hamdan, and Mohammad Basheer Al Qaryuti have
entered into plea agreements and await sentencing.

Kovachevich told Al Hamdan that wherever he winds up and whenever he encounters
Americans, they are entitled to his respect. "I seriously hope that you will
maintain that throughout the rest of your life," she said.

- Contact Graham Brink at (813) 226-3365 or brink@sptimes.com.


LOAD-DATE: March 2, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DISTRIBUTION: TAMPA & STATE; CITY & STATE; METRO & STATE

                    Copyright 2002 Times Publishing Company


                              76 of 302 DOCUMENTS

                         St. Petersburg Times (Florida)

               March 05, 2002, Tuesday, 0 South Pinellas Edition

Father given 24 years in death of 3-week-old

SECTION: CITY & STATE; BRIEFLY; Pg. 3B

LENGTH: 260 words

DATELINE: TAMPA



Juan Ferrer, a Tampa teenager who pleaded guilty to second-degree murder and
aggravated child abuse in the death of his 3-week-old daughter, was sentenced
Monday to 24 years in prison. In imposing the sentence, Hillsborough County
Circuit Judge Ronald Ficarrotta ordered it to be suspended after 10 years.

Last July, Ferrer, now 19, flung his daughter, Yarine, against a dresser after
she vomited on him. The impact lacerated the girl's liver, but she was not taken
to the hospital until the next day..

Jordanian sentenced for sham marriage

TAMPA - The third of four Jordanians accused last year of entering into sham
marriages to stay in the United States was sentenced in federal court Monday.

Montaser Hamdan Al Hamdan, 31, who has been in jail since his arrest in
November, received time served and automatic deportation. Al Hamdan had pleaded
guilty to paying Lori J. Guggino, 38, to marry him. Guggino was not arrested.

Al Hamdan and the three others were picked up after Attorney General John
Ashcroft commanded federal agencies including the FBI and the Immigration and
Naturalization Service to aggressively investigate immigration cases to help
shore up homeland security after the events of Sept. 11.

The four were investigated for possible ties to terrorists, but federal
officials said no such ties were found.

His brother, Nasri Al Hamdan, and Nermine Hani Ayoub Al Khammash received
similar sentences earlier this year. The fourth defendant, Mohammad Basheer Al
Qaryuti, has entered into a plea agreement and awaits sentencing.


LOAD-DATE: March 5, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DISTRIBUTION: CITY & STATE; METRO & STATE; TAMPA & STATE

GRAPHIC: PHOTO; Juan Ferrer

TYPE: DIGEST

                    Copyright 2002 Times Publishing Company


                              77 of 302 DOCUMENTS

                         St. Petersburg Times (Florida)

               March 14, 2002, Thursday, 0 South Pinellas Edition

IMMIGRATION // Hijacker visas rile tempers

BYLINE: MARY JACOBY

SECTION: NATIONAL; Pg. 1A

LENGTH: 768 words

DATELINE: WASHINGTON



Under pressure from an angry President Bush, Attorney General John Ashcroft
ordered an investigation Wednesday into why the Immigration and Naturalization
Service sent paperwork to a Florida flight school this week approving student
visas for two of the Sept. 11 suicide hijackers.

"I was stunned," Bush said at a White House news conference. "And not happy. I
was plenty hot. I made that clear to people in my administration."

Ashcroft, who oversees the immigration agency, "got the message, and so should
the INS," Bush said.

Visa approvals for Mohamed Atta and Marwan al-Shehhi arrived at Huffman Aviation
flight school in Venice, 60 miles south of the Tampa Bay area, on Monday, six
months after the pair are believed to have flown jetliners into the World Trade
Center.

All 19 hijackers on four airplanes are believed to have entered the U.S.
legally, though the INS does not have complete records of their entries.

Ashcroft announced plans to reform the much-maligned INS after the Sept. 11
attacks, separating the agency's law enforcement functions from its work
processing immigration applications. The INS, he said, would be on the front
lines of the war against terrorism, securing borders and tracking foreign
nationals who enter the United States.

But, as the visa incident shows, it is not so easy to turn around an agency with
34,000 employees, a backlog of 56,000 immigration cases and enough problems to
hand the Oregonian newspaper a Pulitzer Prize last year for chronicling INS
incompetence and mistreatment of foreign nationals.

INS Commissioner James Ziglar did not make a public statement about the error,
which INS officials blamed on an antiquated "paper-based" manual data-entry
system for tracking student visas. The agency is developing computer systems to
better manage its data.

Ziglar, an old friend of Senate Minority Leader Trent Lott, R-Miss., and a
former Senate sergeant at arms, received Senate confirmation on July 31, 2001.

Bush on Wednesday called Ziglar a "good man" who "hadn't been there that long."
But the president also hinted at impatience with the pace of reform when he said
Ziglar is "held accountable" for INS operations.

"He's now got another wakeup call with this embarrassing disclosure," Bush said.

In a letter to Justice Department Inspector General Glenn A. Fine, Ashcroft
asked for an investigation into why the letters continued to move through the
system after the attacks and why they were delivered seven months after the
visa-status change was approved.

"Individuals will be held responsible for any professional incompetence that led
to this failure, and inferior INS quality-control mechanisms will be reformed,"
Ashcroft said in a statement.

According to the INS, Atta and al-Shehhi filed requests in September 2000 to
change their tourist visas to student visas. Atta's application was approved on
July 17, 2001 and al-Shehhi's on Aug. 9, 2001.

They were students for several months in 2000 at Huffman Aviation, which was
allowed to enroll them while their paperwork wended its way through the INS
approval process.

Because the approvals came before the Sept. 11 attacks, the INS had no
information when it okayed the visas that Atta, 33, and al-Shehhi, 23, were
connected to terrorism.

But after Sept. 11, Atta and al-Shehhi became widely known. And so the blunder
revealed Monday conjured the image of a rubber-stamping bureaucrat too
indifferent to notice the infamous names.

"How this wasn't discovered by even a rank-and-file worker is beyond my
comprehension," said Rep. Mark Foley, R-West Palm Beach, whose district borders
the flight school. "Anything with Mohamed Atta's name on it should send alarm
bells blasting."

Senate Majority Leader Tom Daschle, D-S.D., called the hijacker visas "one of
the most embarrassing incidents since 9/11" and called for homeland security
director Tom Ridge to testify before Congress. Among the questions Daschle
indicated he would like answered is how a $ 25-million project to build computer
systems to monitor foreign students is going.

"It's a recognition that we still have a lot of work to do," Daschle said of the
visa incidents.

And Sen. Bob Graham, D-Fla., said: "I am extremely disappointed in the
Immigration and Naturalization Service, but frankly, not surprised. It is
completely unacceptable for an agency to take a year to approve a routine
student visa. This is an agency that is out of control, unable to perform its
most basic functions and is in need of radical reform."

- Information from the Associated Press was used in this report.


LOAD-DATE: March 14, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: PHOTO, Reuters; PHOTO, (2); PHOTO ILLUSTRATION; President George W.
Bush speaks at a news conference; Mohammed Atta; Marwan al-Shehhi; Mohammed
Atta's certificate of eligibility for nonimmigrant student status arrived at a
Florida flight school Monday.

                    Copyright 2002 Times Publishing Company


                              78 of 302 DOCUMENTS

                         St. Petersburg Times (Florida)

               March 16, 2002, Saturday, 0 South Pinellas Edition

INS reassigns 4 workers after foulup with visas

SOURCE: Compiled from Times Wires

SECTION: NATIONAL; Pg. 9A

LENGTH: 581 words

DATELINE: WASHINGTON



The Immigration and Naturalization Service reassigned four midlevel employees
Friday in the wake of the agency issuing visa approval notices for two Sept. 11
hijackers six months after they flew airliners into the World Trade Center.

The immigration commissioner, James Ziglar, said the breakdown that led to the
notices being issued "is unacceptable and will not be allowed." No one was
fired.

Attorney General John D. Ashcroft also asked Congress on Friday to give him back
authority to fire INS employees for violating Justice Department rules. That
power was not included in the current budget proposal.

"It is essential that I have the authority to quickly discipline or terminate
individuals for acts of negligence, mismanagement or disregard for Department of
Justice policies," Ashcroft said.

The changes at INS, affecting four career employees, came just two days after
President Bush ordered Ashcroft to investigate the latest embarrassment to hit
the beleaguered agency. Officials did not identify the four employees
reassigned, citing privacy laws.

Lindh was afraid to leave

Taliban, his lawyer says

John Walker Lindh wanted to quit fighting with the Taliban after he learned of
the Sept. 11 hijackings but was afraid he would be killed, attorneys for the
California man said Friday as they asked the government to turn over evidence
that might bolster their defense.

Specifically, Lindh's lawyers asked for information about possible torture by
Northern Alliance leaders, photographs of Lindh in custody that might support
his assertion he was mistreated and access to the al-Qaida and Taliban prisoners
at Guantanamo Bay.

They also are looking for internal U.S. government documents about terrorist
groups and training camps and access to the confidential government witness who
was present when CIA officer Johnny "Mike" Spann was killed and Lindh wounded in
a prison uprising outside Mazar-e-Sharif.

The defense requests filed in U.S. District Court in Alexandria, Va., reflect
the unusual nature of the case against Lindh, who is slated to go on trial in
late August on charges of conspiring to kill Americans abroad and aiding
terrorist groups. If convicted, Lindh, 21, could get life in prison.

Also, lawyers for Lindh have sought to block publication of a book about his
life, calling it "grossly and outrageously false and defamatory."

Also . . .

BOMBING IN YEMEN: An unemployed Yemeni man tossed one or two sound grenades at
the U.S. Embassy in Sana on Friday, hitting a wall but injuring no one, Yemeni
and U.S. officials said. The attack came a day after Vice President Dick Cheney
visited Yemen.

A U.S. Embassy spokesman said two grenades were thrown but caused no injuries or
damage. Yemeni police, however, said only one grenade was thrown.

The alleged attacker was a 25-year-old high school dropout named Samir Yahya
Awadh, according to Faris Sanabani, editor of the government-owned Yemen
Observer newspaper.

SECRET EVIDENCE: Federal lawyers will offer secret evidence in a lawsuit filed
by a suburban Chicago Islamic charity seeking to reverse a government order
freezing its assets.

In a court filing, government lawyers told U.S. District Judge Wayne Andersen
that documents including an application to search the headquarters of the Global
Relief Foundation contain classified national security information and would be
filed in court under seal. That would prevent Global Relief's lawyers from
viewing the documents.


LOAD-DATE: March 16, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: DIGEST

                    Copyright 2002 Times Publishing Company


                              79 of 302 DOCUMENTS

                         St. Petersburg Times (Florida)

               April 11, 2002, Thursday, 0 South Pinellas Edition

Oops! Hijacker gets newsletter from the FAA

SOURCE: Compiled from Times Wires

SECTION: NATIONAL; Pg. 8A

LENGTH: 644 words



The Federal Aviation Administration removed one of the Sept. 11 hijackers from
its mailing list Wednesday after learning it had sent the man its regional
pilots newsletter.

FAA spokeswoman Kathleen Bergen said she did not know why Ziad Samir Jarrah's
name had not been taken off the mailing list.

The incident came to light just weeks after it was disclosed that the
Immigration and Naturalization Service sent official notice to a Florida flight
school six months after the attacks that two of the other hijackers had been
approved for student visas. The episode embarrassed the INS and prompted an
agency shakeup.

Jarrah, a 26-year-old from Lebanon, was believed to have piloted United Flight
93, which crashed in Pennsylvania, apparently after the passengers fought back.

The quarterly newsletter addressed to Jarrah was sent to his former apartment
near Fort Lauderdale.

The issue contains an editorial about the World Trade Center attack that read:
"We hope for justice to be served to those individuals who horrified our great
nation."

INS breakup moves ahead

The Immigration and Naturalization Service would be dissolved under a bill
approved by a House committee Wednesday, to be replaced by two new agencies
dividing immigration enforcement and citizenship services.

The Judiciary Committee voted 32-2 to send to the full House the bill to break
up the INS offered by the committee's chairman, Rep. James Sensenbrenner. The
overwhelming endorsement was a sign of congressional discontent both with the
agency and with the Bush administration's plan to fix it from the inside.

INS commissioner James Ziglar wants to divide the INS functions administratively
but keep the agency intact. Committee members said they have heard too many
ineffective INS overhaul plans over the years.

Under Sensenbrenner's plan, the INS would be abolished, and the bureaus of
Citizenship and Immigration Services and of Immigration Enforcement would take
over its responsibilities.

The new agencies would remain under Justice Department control but report to a
new associate attorney general for immigration affairs.

Karzai: Honor aid promise

Interim Afghan Prime Minister Hamid Karzai on Wednesday called on the world to
make good on promises to help rebuild his country, saying Afghans' expectations
are very high but almost nothing had been delivered.

In the first meeting on how to implement pledges of $ 4.5-billion in assistance
to Afghanistan, Lakhdar Brahimi, the U.N. envoy for Afghanistan, called for
international donors to fund Afghanistan's police and army.

Brahimi said that is the only way to guarantee security outside the capital and
lead the country toward peace and stability.

The appeal by Brahimi followed the refusal of the United States and other major
powers to expand the peacekeeping force outside Kabul or increase its numbers
dramatically.

At the meeting in the Afghan capital of Kabul, Karzai called for big
infrastructure projects, in particular roads, to make the country economically
viable and secure.

On the war front

 Crew members of two U.S. Army Apache helicopters suffered non-life-threatening
injuries when their chopper made a hard landing Wednesday at a remote site
northeast of Kandahar. The cause was not clear, but U.S. Central Command said it
was not because of hostile fire. A Canadian platoon was deployed to secure the
site.

 Fighting was reported in the western province of Nimroz, on the border with
Iran. The Pakistan-based Afghan Islamic Press said forces opposed to
Kabul-appointed governor Abdul Karim Brohi had seized areas along a major trade
route. Brohi sent 500 reinforcements to bolster his position there, the agency
said.

 A pro-U.S. Afghan militiaman was killed and five others injured when their
vehicle struck a recently planted land mine near the American base in Kandahar.


LOAD-DATE: April 11, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: DIGEST

                    Copyright 2002 Times Publishing Company


                              80 of 302 DOCUMENTS

                         St. Petersburg Times (Florida)

               April 20, 2002, Saturday, 0 South Pinellas Edition

Hearings should be open

SECTION: EDITORIAL; EDITORIALS; Pg. 14A

LENGTH: 505 words



Although it is nearly impossible to get information about the 1,200 or so
detainees held since the attacks of Sept. 11, what news has dribbled out of the
Justice Department indicates that only a few have been linked in any way to the
al-Qaida terrorist network. Instead, the majority of detainees still in custody,
approximately 327, have been charged with violations of immigration or criminal
laws.

Many of those unlucky enough to have been caught up in the sweep are still being
held behind a wall of government secrecy. The Bush administration has directed
that their immigration hearings be closed to the press, public and even family
members.

A memorandum dated Sept. 21, issued by Chief Immigration Judge David Creppy,
ordered all proceedings closed: "(T)he Attorney General has implemented
additional security procedures for certain cases in the Immigration Court. Those
procedures require us to hold the hearings individually, to close the hearings
to the public, and to avoid discussing the case or otherwise disclosing any
information about the case to anyone outside the Immigration Court . . ."

Creppy also prohibited the record of the proceeding from being released, and he
barred immigration judges from "confirming or denying whether such a case is on
the docket or scheduled for a hearing." The order flies in the face of federal
regulations that explicitly presume that all immigration court proceedings will
be open to the public "except in narrow circumstances."

In response, Detroit-area newspapers and the American Civil Liberties Union
filed a federal lawsuit. They challenged the closing of the immigration hearing
for Rabih Haddad, a popular cleric in the large Muslim community of Ann Arbor,
Mich., who co-founded the Global Relief Foundation, an Islamic charity the
government believes has terrorist ties. He is charged with overstaying his visa,
and the government intended to conduct his deportation hearing in private.

Regardless of the merits of Haddad's case, the public has a significant interest
in having access to hearings that determine who may or may not stay in this
country. Rules already exist to allow immigration judges to close hearings
temporarily when classified evidence is being presented or at other times when
it serves the public interest, but Attorney General John Ashcroft has taken this
narrow exception and made it the rule.

Earlier this month, U.S. District Court Judge Nancy Edmunds ordered Haddad's
hearing opened, saying: "Openness is necessary for the public to maintain
confidence in the value and soundness of the government's actions, as secrecy
only breeds suspicion." Ashcroft appealed the ruling, but on Thursday  a federal
appellate court said Edmunds' decision would likely be upheld.

The principles of due process require our government to treat each immigrant
fairly. The only way to hold the government to this promise is by opening the
process to the public. When someone's fate is decided in secret, the results are
inevitably tainted.


LOAD-DATE: April 20, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: EDITORIAL

                    Copyright 2002 Times Publishing Company


                              81 of 302 DOCUMENTS

                         St. Petersburg Times (Florida)

                April 26, 2002, Friday, 0 South Pinellas Edition

House votes to split INS into two bureaus

SOURCE: Compiled from Times Wires

SECTION: NATIONAL; Pg. 12A

LENGTH: 473 words

DATELINE: WASHINGTON



Capping years of frustration, the House voted overwhelmingly Thursday to
overhaul the beleaguered Immigration and Naturalization Service, splitting up
its law enforcement and service roles into separate bureaus within the Justice
Department.

"After all the bungling and mistakes by INS, it's time to start over," said
House Judiciary Committee Chairman James Sensenbrenner, R-Wis., whose rare piece
of bipartisan legislation passed the House, 405-9.

Sensenbrenner said the House action would "put great pressure on the Senate to
act on this promptly" so an overhaul could begin in the fall.

Until recent days, administration officials said the bill was not needed because
the INS was undergoing a restructuring that did not require congressional
action.

But a series of embarrassments over visas issued to the Sept. 11 hijackers
fueled momentum for more drastic action.

The lopsided House vote followed an outpouring of frustrations over the
shortcomings of the 36,000-person, $ 5-billion agency. House members decried the
lax enforcement that permitted foreign terrorists to enter the country and carry
out their Sept. 11 attacks.

On Thursday, Attorney General John Ashcroft visited Capitol Hill to say he could
support the bill.

The House measure establishes a new position of associate attorney general to
oversee the two new agencies, Immigration Enforcement and Citizenship and
Immigration Services. The bill says the appointee must have at least five years'

 experience running a "large and complex organization."

Administration officials oppose the five-years requirement, which INS
Commissioner James Ziglar does not meet.

A Senate bill crafted by Ted Kennedy, D-Mass., and Sam Brownback, R-Kan., would
create an independent commissioner over both agencies. It might be introduced
next week, a Senate aide said.

During Thursday's debate, several House members said the INS was the worst
federal agency for providing basic services. They joked that its real title was
"Incompetent and Negligent Service" and "Ignoring National Security."

Rep. Mark Foley, R-Fla., was among those criticizing the INS for issuing student
visa confirmations to two Sept. 11 hijackers six months after the attacks.

"The INS has had its visa revoked and has been deported," Foley said.

Several House members cautioned that the legislation amounted to bureaucratic
reshuffling and did not guarantee better service or improved border security.

"All this bill does is take one inefficient agency and create two inefficient
agencies," said Rep. Mel Watt, D-N.C. "Will the lines be any shorter at a new
INS? No."

The bill's backers, including immigration experts from both parties, said the
new agencies would include an ombudsman's office to monitor the handling of
services and a special office to handle children's issues.


LOAD-DATE: April 26, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                    Copyright 2002 Times Publishing Company


                              82 of 302 DOCUMENTS

                         St. Petersburg Times (Florida)

               May 01, 2002, Wednesday, 0 South Pinellas Edition

Pastor arrested as war criminal

BYLINE: TAMARA LUSH

SECTION: NATIONAL; Pg. 1A

LENGTH: 749 words

DATELINE: TEMPLE TERRACE



Since coming to the United States from Haiti in 1995, Hebert Valmond has become
an influential member of Tampa's thriving Haitian community.

He became a pastor, opened his own church and bought a home in an upscale
neighborhood.

But on Monday, in a move that shocked local Haitians, immigration officers armed
with a deportation order arrested Valmond. He is suspected of participating in
the 1994 torture and massacre of two dozen peasants in his homeland.

"A lot of people know him. I never heard anything about him committing any
crimes," said Ed Jean-Pierre, a member of the Haitian Association Foundation of
Tampa Bay. "I know a lot of people in the army did a lot of bad stuff, but that
doesn't mean everybody did."

Valmond, 52, of 6110 Soaring Ave., was a lieutenant colonel in the Haitian army.
In 1998, a Haitian court issued a warrant for his arrest in the killings at the
seaside community of Raboteau.

He moved to Florida in 1995, records show, and married a U.S. citizen. Patricia
Mancha of the U.S. Immigration and Nationalization Service said Valmond entered
the country on a six-month visa. He was a state-licensed security officer and a
certified nurse assistant.

On April 11, an immigration judge ordered Valmond to be sent back to Haiti after
an investigation into his involvement in the Raboteau massacre.

According to published reports, Valmond was a high-ranking member of the
paramilitary government for former Haitian dictator Raoul Cedras. He was
sixth-in-command, said Richard Krieger, the head of International Educational
Missions, a nonprofit organization that researches and promotes detaining and
deporting foreigners accused of war crimes.

Under Cedras' command, Valmond and dozens of others allegedly raided Raboteau,
an extremely poor community 93 miles north of the country's capital,
Port-au-Prince, in April of 1994. The military forced its way into homes,
tortured people, forced some to lie in open sewers and killed them, reports
said.

"Valmond was not just a bystander, nor was he a low-ranking official," Krieger
said.

All of the people killed were supporters of Jean-Bertrand Aristide, the
country's current president. In 2000, 22 Haitians - including Cedras and Valmond
- were tried in absentia. Valmond was found guilty of murder, torture,
destruction of homes and other crimes.

The trial was a milestone for Haiti's government because it was the first time
paramilitary leaders had been tried for human rights violations.

According to the INS, Valmond is not the first alleged Haitian war criminal to
be arrested in Florida. There have been at least a dozen others, Mancha said.

"When someone doesn't want to be found, they do everything possible to hide,"
Mancha said. Florida's large Haitian community makes that easier. The Haitian
community here has grown substantially in recent years, to an estimated 20,000
Haitians in the Tampa Bay area.

Last week, a former Haitian general also involved in the Raboteau massacre was
reported to beliving in Orlando and working at Walt Disney World. Disney
executives said Jean-Claude Duperval ceased working for the company on April 12,
according to Newsweek.

Last year, the INS arrested Carl Dorelien, a former Haitian army colonel who
allegedly participated in the same massacre as Valmond. Dorelien, who won $
3.2-million in the Florida state lottery, is appealing his extradition to Haiti.

Valmond is being held at the Sarasota County Jail. INS officials are proceeding
with deportation orders, but officials said Valmond may have a right to appeal
his case.

Valmond's brother-in-law, Emmanuel Revolus, refuses to believe that Valmond was
involved in the attack.

"We grew up together," said Revolus, who lives in Tampa. "I know him as a good
man."

Revolus said that because Valmond was a member of the Haitian army during an
especially tumultuous time in the country, he is being unfairly portrayed as a
killer. Revolus sharply criticized the INS for detaining his brother-in-law and
maintains that U.S. officials do not know the complexities of Haitian politics.

If Valmond is deported to Haiti, the ruling government will almost certainly
kill him for being part of Cedras' army, Revolus said.

"The INS should have a good investigation before they get involved in a case
like that," said Revolus. "It's like they work for the government of Haiti."

- Times researcher John Martin contributed to this report, which used
information from the Associated Press.


LOAD-DATE: May 1, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: MAP; locates site of arrest

                    Copyright 2002 Times Publishing Company


                              83 of 302 DOCUMENTS

                         St. Petersburg Times (Florida)

              August 19, 2000, Saturday, 0 South Pinellas Edition

Man held on secret evidence is freed

SOURCE: Compiled from Times Wires

SECTION: NATIONAL; Pg. 7A

LENGTH: 366 words

DATELINE: LOS ANGELES



Calling charges of espionage "ill-founded," an immigration judge on Friday set
free an Iraqi dissident who had been jailed for nearly four years based on
secret government evidence suggesting he was a spy for a Middle East country.

Dr. Ali Yasin Mohammed Karim, 39, walked out of the U.S. Immigration and
Naturalization Detention Center in San Pedro shortly after 3 p.m. accompanied by
his brother and his attorneys.

"I was kept for four years by the INS for things I never heard about," said
Karim, as he proceeded from the federal compound on Terminal Island. "I am
innocent, but I have paid a high price."

Karim was part of a group of six dissidents evacuated from Iraq by the United
States in March 1997 only to be jailed by the INS and threatened with
deportation back to their homeland. The case against them was based on
classified evidence kept secret from defense attorneys during immigration
hearings in 1997 and 1998.

Elsewhere

FATAL FALL: A man going to obtain a marriage license Friday in New York City
died when he apparently fainted, fell onto subway tracks and hit an electrified
rail. Peter Seligman, 30, began to feel dizzy on a crowded train and decided to
stand with his fiancee on the small platform between cars to get some air,
police said. He fell onto the tracks as the train pulled into a station. He and
Sarah Sinek were to be married Sept. 3.

NO CHARGES: Investigators in Blythe, Calif., said the death of a little boy, who
was smothered with a pillow by his 6-year-old sister and 5-year-old cousin, was
intentional. The girls will not be charged in the death of 3-year-old Damien
Stiffler, Riverside County District Attorney Grover Trask said Friday. About 30
people attended the private and brief funeral Friday for the boy before he was
buried in a white casket with a teddy bear from his mother.

NAME CHANGE: Boys Town, the home for troubled youth immortalized in a Hollywood
movie, wants to change its name to Girls and Boys Town. The school announced
Friday that the 83-year-old campus west of Omaha, Neb., will ask its residents
to vote next week on the proposed change. The Rev. Edward Flanagan founded the
home for wayward boys in 1917.


LOAD-DATE: August 19, 2000

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: DIGEST

                    Copyright 2000 Times Publishing Company


                              84 of 302 DOCUMENTS

                         St. Petersburg Times (Florida)

               August 21, 2000, Monday, 0 South Pinellas Edition

Colombian drug violence leads to exodus

BYLINE: DAVID ADAMS

SECTION: NATIONAL; Pg. 1A

LENGTH: 1431 words

DATELINE: MIAMI



Wealthy professionals fleeing the crime in record numbers are taking their money
and skills from the struggling nation.

As the United States is preparing to dramatically increase its commitment to the
drug war in Colombia, a troubling phenomenon is headed in the opposite
direction.

Colombians by the thousands are bailing out of their country.

Miami immigration lawyers say their offices are besieged by immigrants seeking
refuge from the drug-fueled violence that has brought Colombia to its knees.

"It's a veritable exodus of people who are leaving because of insecurity," said
Michael Bander, a leading Miami immigration lawyer. "There's no optimism
anymore. They drained it out of themselves."

President Clinton is due to visit Colombia this month in a show of personal
support for President Andres Pastrana. Last week Clinton signed a directive
making U.S. assistance to Colombia a "national priority." This comes on the back
of a $ 1.3-billion aid package approved by Congress in July.

But the flight from Colombia hardly bodes well for U.S. policy.

Unlike previous immigration waves to hit South Florida, most of the new arrivals
are wealthy businessmen and middle-class professionals. Their departure is a
double blow, combining capital flight with a brain drain the country can ill
afford in a moment of crisis.

In their desperation to leave many have sold property and cashed in their
savings, wondering if they will ever return.

"We don't see any future in Colombia," said Juan Carlos Velasquez, who left a
computer business in the capital, Bogota, to move to Miami with his pregnant
wife in January. "Every day the news reports more massacres. So many, it's like
listening to a nightly sportscast."

Their decision to leave was prompted by a letter threatening they would be
kidnapped, or their businesses bombed and employees killed, if they did not pay
up. Guerrillas and paramilitary groups commonly demand what is known in Colombia
as a vacuna, Spanish for vaccination, to finance their armies. Paying the vacuna
affords a family immunity from the threat of violence - at least temporarily.

"For the last two months we were too frightened to leave the house," Velasquez
said. "The government doesn't do anything. We have no one left to defend us."

Staying in Colombia would have meant purchasing a bulletproof car and hiring
bodyguards. "We didn't want to live like that. It means a change of mentality.
We didn't want to become part of the culture of violence," he said.

The exodus of Colombian professionals is a sign of how deep the crisis has
reached. Until recently the violence was largely limited to areas of the
countryside where drug lords, guerrillas and paramilitary groups fought out
their turf wars.

But as the guerrillas and paramilitaries have grown in size, requiring more
money, their criminal tentacles have been increasingly felt in the cities.

Colombia holds the world record for kidnappings. Last year the official number
of abductions reported rose to 2,945 cases, up 30 percent from the previous
year.

On top of that an economic recession has seen unemployment rise, fueling common
street crime. "Now no one is untouchable," said Bruce Bagley, a top Colombia
expert at the University of Miami. "You can't work in the cities anymore. You
can't run businesses without paying taxes to guerrillas or paramilitaries.
Colombians love their country, but you can't live like that."

Because many Colombians arrive in the country on tourist visas, it's hard to
know how many plan to become permanent residents. Colombian officials say that
as many as 200,000 Colombians have left the country in the past two years,
mostly for the United States.

In 1999, 366,423 Colombians applied for U.S. visas, more than double the number
in 1997.

And the pace shows no signs of letting up.

Their presence is being felt all over Miami, where Colombians now make up the
second largest immigrant group after Cubans. Every Sunday, hundreds of
Colombians pack the pews at the Apostolic Mission of Christ, an Orthodox church
near downtown Miami. The church offers cut-price legal services to less well-off
arrivals. At the end of the service a priest asks how many Colombians in the
congregation need advice about immigration. Nearly half raise their hands.

At the Miami office of the Colombian-American Service Association, program
director Johanna Davila says her agency assists some 1,000 newly arrived
Colombians each month.

Davila left Colombia two years ago after her brother was killed.

Although more than 70 percent of those who come to the office say they left
Colombia after receiving threats, Davila said most do not have enough evidence
to present a solid case for political asylum.

"In Colombia people are too scared to go to the authorities and make a formal
complaint," she said. "When they get here they don't have any legal proof of
what happened to them."

Even so, applications by Colombians for political asylum have risen sharply in
the past two years, according to the Immigration and Naturalization Service. In
1999 the INS received 399 cases, compared with 842 in the first six months of
this year.

Washington has so far rejected calls from Colombian emigres to grant them
temporary refugee status. Privately, U.S. officials say most of the immigrants
are members of Colombia's upper crust, well able to fend for themselves.

In order to qualify for asylum, Colombians must show a credible fear of
persecution on grounds of political or religious belief, or membership in an
especially vulnerable social group.

While being rich may make businessmen a target for extortion and kidnapping in
Colombia, the INS does not consider mere wealth sufficient justification.

These days the INS does appear to be lending a more sympathetic ear to cases
from Colombia. Last year only 122 asylum cases were granted with a 39 percent
approval rate, compared with 61 percent, or 348 cases, this year.

Irma Londono, 42, won her asylum claim in June, less than two months after
filing an application. A journalist who worked with Colombian army intelligence,
she was able to document her case after receiving repeated threats.

She recalled attending her asylum hearing a day after news from Colombia of a
particularly vicious killing. Armed men had placed a booby-trap bomb around the
neck of an extortion victim.

"The INS officer who was attending my case was really affected by that," she
said.

But in many cases political asylum isn't the only option.

At Bander's law firm, one of the largest handling immigration cases in Miami,
staff members say they receive up to 100 new visa applications from Colombians
every week. In most cases Bander recommends other alternatives, including
non-immigrant business and investor visas.

Due to the sudden demand, his firm has organized seminars in several Colombian
cities this year explaining how to travel legally to the United States.

"I tell them it's not difficult to get here,"  said Yvonne Torres, a
Colombian-born paralegal on Bander's staff. "In fact it's very easy because they
have talent and are professionals."

As Miami's image as "the capital of the Americas" has evolved in recent years,
many U.S. companies doing business in Latin America have opened offices in the
city.

"There's a demand in Miami for qualified people from Latin America," Torres
said. "We show them what they need to do to become eligible."

As an example she gives the case of a real estate agent from Cali, Colombia's
second largest city, who now works with Spanish-speaking clients for a Miami
firm. More Colombians are opening their own businesses in Miami, creating more
opportunities.

One popular Colombian restaurant chain in Miami, Patacon, recently opened
several new premises, importing chefs from Colombia on temporary work visas.

While immigration to the United States may appear to some as the easy way out
for educated Colombians, it remains a difficult decision.

"We didn't want to leave," said Sergio Otalora, 39, a newspaper columnist who
arrived in Miami this month. "We tried to put fear aside, but you can't live all
the time on your nerves. It makes you sick."

Otalora left with his wife and their 3-year-old son after he wrote a column
critical of the paramilitaries. They fear it will be years before they can think
of returning.

"It makes you feel very bad. I know some people accuse us of abandoning a
sinking ship," he said. "But that's moral blackmail. We have to think of Pedro,
our son. Maybe in 15 years he can go back and contribute something."


LOAD-DATE: August 22, 2000

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                    Copyright 2000 Times Publishing Company


                              85 of 302 DOCUMENTS

                         St. Petersburg Times (Florida)

               August 28, 2000, Monday, 0 South Pinellas Edition

Backers softening laws on migrants

BYLINE: SUSAN TAYLOR MARTIN

SECTION: NATIONAL; IMMIGRATION LAW AND ECONOMICS; Pg. 1A

LENGTH: 1315 words



GOP Senate candidate Bill McCollum offers a reform of the deportation act that
critics say does not go far enough.

Four years ago, as an anti-immigrant mood swept the country, Rep. Bill McCollum
of Florida was among the biggest boosters of a new law that required deportation
of non-citizens convicted of felonies.

Now, as he runs for the U.S. Senate, McCollum acknowledges that the law went too
far and brought grief and hardship to countless families. The Orlando-area
Republican is sponsoring a bill that could lead to the return of some immigrants
who already have been deported, including the son of a former GOP official in
McCollum's home county.

But while McCollum's bill could bring relief to some, it doesn't go nearly far
enough in addressing the underlying harshness and unfairness of the 1996
Immigration Reform Act, critics say.

"I think Congress should start over and redo the 1996 laws because there are so
many problems with this legislation," says Josh Bernstein, senior policy analyst
for the National Immigration Law Center.

"I hope . . . the result would be something that brings us much closer to
fairness than the McCollum bill would do."

The bill would take some steps toward correcting what many consider the worst
part of the 1996 law: mandatory deportation of non-citizens convicted of certain
felonies, even those committed before the law took effect. Thousands already
have been deported under the retroactive provisions, including many legal,
permanent residents who had long since served their sentences and gone on to
lead productive, law-abiding lives.

The bill, introduced late last month by McCollum and eight other lawmakers,
would do away with retroactivity for some offenses. It would also permit some
immigrants who have been deported since 1996 to apply for readmission to the
United States.

"I think the obvious took place, and that is that you began to see cases come to
various congressmen's offices which had very great humanitarian need," McCollum
told National Public Radio in explaining his sponsorship of the bill. (The St.
Petersburg Times was unable to reach him for comment.)

However, the McCollum bill contains many exceptions. It would do nothing to help
thousands of immigrants convicted of certain crimes, including some Floridians
whose travails have been chronicled by the Times:

+Hadi Alyasin of Pasco County was 18 when he had consensual sex with an underage
girl he thought was older. In 1998 he was deported to his native Syria although
his crime, lewd and lascivious act on a minor, occurred before the 1996
immigration law took effect and was not even considered a deportable offense at
the time he committed it. McCollum's bill does not apply to sex crimes, so
Alyasin likely will be barred from the United States and not be able to see his
elderly parents for at least the next 18 years.

+In 1981, Catherine Caza of Holiday was sentenced to five years' probation for
selling LSD and Quaaludes to a boyfriend who turned out to be an undercover cop.
Now a social worker and college student, Caza has since led such a clean life
that she received a governor's pardon in 1998. But she faces deportation to her
native Canada because McCollum's bill does not address drug offenses, regardless
of how long ago they occurred.

+After his wife left the family, Luis Espinoza of Ruskin had to raise their four
children alone. In 1998, he was deported to Mexico because of an old
drug-possession charge, leaving his 10-year-old twin boys and two teenage
daughters to care for themselves. The immigration judge expressed sympathy for
the Espinozas but said the 1996 law was so restrictive that he could do nothing
to help them. Because his crime involved drugs, Espinoza, like Caza, would get
no help under McCollum's bill.

The 1996 law "was designed to go after major drug trafficking," says Jeanne
Butterfield, executive director of the American Immigration Lawyers Association.
"Yet the definition now scoops up in its net even the most minor drug offenses
so that someone with a substance abuse problem could be punished like a major
trafficker. (McCollum's) bill doesn't touch any of the drug-related offenses."

However, the bill could clear the way for some deported immigrants to return as
long as their crimes did not involve drugs or sex. Among the possible
beneficiaries: Robert Anthony Broley, whose mother volunteered for McCollum's
re-election campaign and whose father was Republican Party treasurer of Orange
County, McCollum's base.

Broley, then 32, was deported to Canada in 1998 after his release from a Florida
prison, where he had spent four years on charges that included forging $ 4,175
worth of Republican Party checks.

McCollum drew heavy criticism after he introduced a private bill to bring Broley
back from Canada. The measure would have helped only Broley and not addressed
the plight of other deported immigrants, many with far less serious criminal
records.

At the time, McCollum denied he was acting because of personal interests - he
said he barely knew Broley's parents. However, he said, Broley's banishment was
"an injustice, if not corrected."

Since then McCollum and other members of Congress have been bombarded with
complaints that the 1996 immigration law was too harsh. The outcry has been so
great that even strong supporters of the law like McCollum and Rep. Lamar Smith,
R-Texas, began to realize changes were needed.

"One of the things we've seen is that there are people in every district who
have been unfairly victimized by this legislation," says Bernstein of the
National Immigration Law Center. "Every member of Congress is having to deal
with the problems this legislation is creating because there are situations that
are really unconscionable."

Bernstein says it is not surprising that McCollum, a backer of the 1996 law, is
now one of the leading proponents of change.

"He has a higher profile politically: He supported (the law) and he's running
for high office, so those things put him more in the hot seat than maybe some
other members" of Congress, Bernstein says.

Other parts of the 1996 Immigration Reform Act initially drew more attention,
but the crime-related provisions have been the most disruptive and
heart-breaking for immigrant families.

In reaction to the World Trade Center bombing and other foreign-inspired
terrorist acts, Congress in 1996 expanded the list of "aggravated felonies" -
those punishable by a year or more in prison - for which non-citizens can be
deported for 20 years.

It also made the law retroactive so that even a legal permanent resident who
went on to lead an exemplary life could be deported for a crime committed long
ago. Moreover, the new law gave immigration judges no discretion to consider
mitigating factors: If you're deportable, out you go.

McCollum's bill is one of several that would amend the law to varying degrees.
However, his is given a strong chance of passage before Congress adjourns this
fall because some of the co-sponsors also backed the 1996 measure.

Although critics say the McCollum bill doesn't go nearly far enough, it could
still help many people who are battling deportation.

Among them is a mentally retarded Tampa Bay man who could be deported to his
native Iran, where he has no friends or family, because of a burglary he
committed 12 years ago.

Pressure from immigrants rights groups may have helped Congress "see the
unjustice of punishing somebody after they've already paid the penalty," says
the man's attorney, John Ovink of Tampa.

"If I steal and know that I'm going to get deported, fine, that's the risk and
that's the penalty," he said. "But if I do something wrong and pay the penalty
and then 20 years later they say, "Oh, now we're going to deport you for it,'
that's like double jeopardy."

- Susan Martin can be contacted at susan@sptimes.com.


LOAD-DATE: August 29, 2000

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: COLOR PHOTO, (2); Bill McCollum; Hadi Alyasin

                    Copyright 2000 Times Publishing Company


                              86 of 302 DOCUMENTS

                         St. Petersburg Times (Florida)

               August 28, 2000, Monday, 0 South Pinellas Edition

Detainee to request release

BYLINE: SUSAN ASCHOFF

SECTION: CITY & STATE; Pg. 1B

LENGTH: 936 words



The recent release of three immigrants facing similar allegations of terrorism
may bode well for Mazen Al-Najjar.

This week, a Tampa man jailed on secret government evidence will ask the judge
who detained him three years ago to let him out.

But this time, Mazen Al-Najjar has precedent on his side.

Over the last year, judges have released three other immigrants jailed in
similar cases. An Egyptian in New York and an Iraqi in California were freed
when immigration judges reversed themselves. After some of the secret evidence
was shared with the two men, the judges ruled that they successfully rebutted
allegations they had ties to terrorists.

In a third case, a Palestinian in New Jersey was freed after a string of judges
found him to be more credible than the information in newly released FBI files.

When given some of the evidence against them, the immigrants proved it to be
"flimsy and uncorroborated," the judges found.

Now Al-Najjar gets his turn.

Al-Najjar's hearing is scheduled to begin Tuesday in Bradenton before
immigration judge R. Kevin McHugh. McHugh denied bail in 1997 after hearing
secret evidence and deciding Al-Najjar was a threat because of an association
with the Palestinian Islamic Jihad. The Middle East group is on a U.S. list of
designated terrorist organizations.

But a federal judge in May ordered another hearing, saying Al-Najjar's
constitutional rights were violated because he wasn't given enough information
to defend himself.

The 43-year-old father of three and former University of South Florida Arabic
teacher is one of almost two dozen immigrants involved in secret evidence cases
in the United States. An exact number is not known. The Immigration and
Naturalization Service declines to release names.

They are overwhelmingly Arabs and Muslims, arrested on visa violations, then
accused of terrorist ties. Al-Najjar was born in Gaza and has lived in the
United States almost 20 years. He was ordered deported for overstaying a student
visa, then denied bail while he appeals because he is a threat to national
security, McHugh ruled.

No terrorism charges are filed.

Critics say that the process is unconstitutional and that the immigrants are
targeted because of their politics or nationalities.

In the three recent cases, the key to freedom has been information.

On Aug. 18, an Iraqi man held almost four years as a spy was released by an
immigration judge in California who reversed herself and found the government's
claims "unfounded."

Dr. Ali Yasin Mohammed Karim won asylum after former CIA director R. James
Woolsey joined Karim's defense team and pressed for the release of hundreds of
pages classified by the FBI and INS. Armed with the new information, witnesses
testified that Karim was an ally, not an enemy, of the United States in trying
to overthrow Saddam Hussein before he was airlifted out by the U.S. government.

FBI agents said Karim's travels, relatives and employment were suspicious. But
at the new hearing in April, Karim's attorneys showed those accusations were
based on cursory interviews by federal agents ignorant of Iraqi culture and
politics.

"The low burden of proof on the government, combined with an initial veil of
secrecy," meant crucial facts were unknown in 1997 when Karim was denied bail,
said immigration judge D.D. Sitgraves. After the rehearing, Sitgraves ruled
Karim should not only be released but also granted asylum because he would
likely be killed if deported back to Iraq.

Last November, Egyptian Nasser Ahmed was freed after almost four years in jail
when immigration judge Donn Livingston reversed himself. The government linked
Ahmed to bombing plots in New York and abroad, allegations he successfully
rebutted when provided with some of the secret evidence.

A month earlier, New Jersey resident Hany Kiareldeen was freed after seven
immigration judges ruled in his favor and U.S. District Judge William Walls
ordered him released on constitutional grounds.

Kiareldeen was accused of conspiring with one of the World Trade Center bombers
and threating to kill Attorney General Janet Reno. An immigration appeals panel
said there were "serious doubts regarding the reliability of the information
contained in the FBI reports."

The decisions in the previous cases are not legal precedents because they were
not made at the appellate level.

The results do go to the government's credibility in secret evidence cases.

One of Karim's trips, labeled by FBI agents as possible espionage, occurred when
Karim was 12. No one bothered to do the math, said Frenzen.

The immediate challenge for Al-Najjar is more basic: He must pry some evidence
loose. Judge McHugh denied motions for government records to be shared in
advance of the hearing. Last week Al-Najjar's attorneys asked the judge to order
an expanded summary. Al-Najjar still has only one sentence on the secret
evidence being used against him: He is a threat because he is associated with
the Palestinian Islamic Jihad, it reads.

INS agents testified that Al-Najjar's work at a political think tank in Tampa
was a front for funneling money to the group, but produced nothing in open court
detailing such a money trail. An associate of Al-Najjar's and the think tank's
former administrator, Ramadan Abdullah Shallah, became the group's leader in
Syria after leaving Tampa in 1995.

"We're still dancing around with the shadows of what the allegations are," said
Joseph Hohenstein of Philadelphia, one of Al-Najjar's attorneys.

"It's like trying to find a needle in a haystack: What does the government view
as suspicious?"


LOAD-DATE: August 29, 2000

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DISTRIBUTION: CITY & STATE; METRO & STATE; TAMPA & STATE

GRAPHIC: COLOR PHOTO; Mazen Al-Najjar

                    Copyright 2000 Times Publishing Company


                              87 of 302 DOCUMENTS

                         St. Petersburg Times (Florida)

            September 13, 2000, Wednesday, 0 South Pinellas Edition
                              Correction Appended

Al-Najjar case circles back

BYLINE: SUSAN ASCHOFF

SECTION: CITY & STATE; Pg. 4B

LENGTH: 438 words



A federal judge returns the case to immigration court, scolding the judge.

A federal judge Tuesday ordered the case of a man jailed on secret evidence back
into immigration court, scolding the presiding judge for not following her
orders, yet failing to dictate what should happen next.

The latitude in the ruling by U.S. District Judge Joan A. Lenard could further
delay a decision on whether Mazen Al-Najjar, a former University of South
Florida teacher, gets bail after being held more than three years without formal
charges. He is accused of being a friend of terrorists.

In May, Lenard ordered a Bradenton immigration court to reconsider bail for the
Tampa man. She said his constitutional right to due process was violated in 1997
when he was first denied release.

But the rehearing, held over three days in August, abruptly ended when
Al-Najjar's attorneys said he was still not getting a fair shake. Lenard ordered
the government to give Al-Najjar an early summary of the secret evidence so he
could defend himself, but at the hearing the government signaled its intent to
share secret evidence only with immigration Judge R. Kevin McHugh.

Al-Najjar's attorneys went back to Lenard, who  returned the case to immigration
court Tuesday.

An attorney on Al-Najjar's legal team said Tuesday that Lenard's order is a
message to McHugh.

"I read it as a strong directive: You have a job to do and I've told you what's
included in that job," said Randall Marshall, legal director of the American
Civil Liberties Union of Florida. "(McHugh) needs to be concerned about the
federal Constitution when he continues the proceeding."

Although Lenard  said no secret evidence can be used until the public portion of
the hearing is finished, her Tuesday decision  did not say when a summary of the
secret evidence must be shared with Al-Najjar.

His attorneys want it immediately so they  can decide  whether it is adequate to
prepare a defense. If not, they say secret evidence should not be used at all.

Al-Najjar, a 43-year-old father of three, has been ordered deported for
overstaying a student visa; he is appealing. He is jailed because the government
says he is a security threat for support of the Damascus-based Palestinian
Islamic Jihad. At the hearing in August, the government failed to show that
Al-Najjar advocated violence, raised funds or  affiliated himself with the
group, which is on the State Department's list of designated terrorist
organizations.

The proof, says the government, is in the classified evidence.

Al-Najjar says he is innocent and the victim of political prejudice.


LOAD-DATE: September 14, 2000

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DISTRIBUTION: CITY & STATE; METRO & STATE; TAMPA & STATE

CORRECTION-DATE: September 14, 2000

CORRECTION:
 U.S. District Judge Joan A. Lenard did not order the federal government to give
Mazen Al-Najjar, jailed University of South Florida professor, an early summary
of the classified evidence against him. A story Wednesday was unclear on this
point.

GRAPHIC: BLACK AND WHITE PHOTO; Mazen Al-Najjar (ran City & State, Metro &
State)

                    Copyright 2000 Times Publishing Company


                              88 of 302 DOCUMENTS

                         St. Petersburg Times (Florida)

             September 21, 2000, Thursday, 0 South Pinellas Edition

Time to repair immigration law

SECTION: EDITORIAL; EDITORIALS; Pg. 14A

LENGTH: 518 words



The Immigration and Naturalization Service announced last week that the number
of immigrants being detained nationwide has skyrocketed to a 60-year high. The
increase is largely a result of reactive legislation passed in 1996 shortly
after the World Trade Center bombing.

The combination of two acts approved that year makes detention more likely for
asylum seekers and for any non-citizen who has ever had a criminal record, no
matter how minor the offense or whether the person has completed a sentence.

Some are jailed for having inadequate travel documents. Others, including some
non-citizens convicted of minor offenses, are held by the INS despite having
completed their sentences in the justice system.

Now Congress has a chance to repair some of the law's harm, and Florida's
delegation should be leading the charge. Sen. Bob Graham, who participated in
one of his famous workdays at Krome detention center outside Miami, will
introduce legislation this week to repeal some of the more draconian provisions
of the 1996 law.

Specifically, Graham's bill would remove some of the retroactive provisions of
the law that make a non-citizen eligible for detention after serving a sentence.
It would narrow the class of crimes that lead to detention and deportation (the
1996 bill expanded those to include shoplifting and writing bad checks) and
allow for the return of some deported immigrants. And the new legislation seeks
to give more discretion to judges and immigration officials instead of imposing
mandatory detention requirements.

Similar, though less expansive, legislation sponsored by Rep. Bill McCollum,
R-Altamonte Springs, passed the House Tuesday. McCollum, who is running for the
U.S. Senate seat being vacated by fellow Republican Connie Mack, was one of the
architects of the 1996 bill, but he now acknowledges that some of the changes in
the law went too far.

He apparently came to this realization after the son of one of his campaign
contributors was caught in the law's wide net. After being roundly criticized
for introducing a private bill to relieve the plight of one young man, McCollum
this time broadened his bill to cover a range of problems that arose from the
1996 legislation.

"The 1996 law went too far," McCollum said in a press release this week touting
his bill's passage. "We are a just and fair nation and must strike a just and
fair balance in our immigration codes - this legislation does just that."

The Senate counterpart, sponsored by Graham and Sen. Ted Kennedy, goes a bit
further in redressing some of the injustices imposed by the 1996 law. In
reconciling the House and Senate versions, lawmakers can produce a measure that
protects the nation from criminal aliens while respecting the rights of asylum
seekers and non-citizen residents of this nation.

To avoid the appearance of hypocrisy, the senators who voted 97-1 to consider a
bill granting greater entry opportunities to high-tech immigrant workers should
support the Graham-Kennedy legislation, which redresses the injustice to
immigrants many of them supported four years ago.


LOAD-DATE: September 21, 2000

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: EDITORIAL

                    Copyright 2000 Times Publishing Company


                              89 of 302 DOCUMENTS

                         St. Petersburg Times (Florida)

                           September 24, 2000, Sunday

Immigration double standard

SECTION: PERSPECTIVE; EDITORIAL; CLARIFICATION; Pg. 2D

LENGTH: 520 words



The White House hasn't shown much interest in repairing the harshest provisions
of the immigration law President Clinton signed in 1996, which has resulted in
the detention or deportation of record numbers of immigrants for minor offenses
or paperwork problems. But the Clinton administration took a great interest in
an effort to accelerate the citizenship process for Hispanic immigrants whose
leaders promised "a great chance to create a whole lot of pro-Clinton voters."

The double standard couldn't be much more glaring: Thousands of immigrants
languish in federal detention as a result of the 1996 law allowing them to be
detained or deported without due process.

Meanwhile, many violent felons were fast-tracked for citizenship thanks to the
administration's political intervention to speed up the naturalization process
for thousands of immigrants in time for the 1996 presidential election.

As Times Washington bureau chief Sara Fritz reported last week, Vice President
Al Gore acknowledges having authorized the effort to process citizenship
applications more quickly, as part of his office's broader effort to "reinvent
government." However, Gore denies that the effort was politically motivated.

He should tell that to the top officials from the Justice Department and the
Immigration and Naturalization Service who were browbeaten by members of Gore's
staff. A Justice Department investigation makes it clear that Gore aides invoked
the vice president's name in pressuring INS Commissioner Doris Meissner,
then-Deputy Attorney General Jamie Gorelick and other officials to relax INS
rules to speed up the naturalization process.

As for Gore, his memory turned conveniently fuzzy in his written responses to
questions from the Justice Department's Inspector General's Office. He
repeatedly responded that he "does not recall" or "does not remember" details
involving his actions in setting the INS review in motion. However, it is a
matter of record that Gore authorized his staff to get involved after he met in
Los Angeles in March 1996 with a group of Hispanic leaders whose interest in
relaxing the naturalization rules was overtly political.

Immigrants in this country deserve to be treated fairly and equally, regardless
of the political consequences. For now, though, U.S. immigration policy is the
worst of both worlds. While government authorities occasionally have intervened
on behalf of Democratic-leaning Mexican immigrants in California or
Republican-leaning Cuban immigrants in Florida, the 1996 immigration laws have
dealt harshly with thousands of immigrants who enjoy no special political
connections.

Based on Vice President Gore's staff's performance in "reinventing immigration,"

 the job of correcting the excesses of the 1996 legislation should be carried
out as far from the White House as possible.

Clarification

The Department of Corrections says it will add steel-mesh grating to death row
cells at Florida State Prison after it finishes doing so at Union Correctional
Institution. Incorrect information from the department was cited in Thursday's
editorial.


LOAD-DATE: September 25, 2000

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: BLACK AND WHITE PHOTO; Vice President Al Gore

TYPE: EDITORIAL; CORRECTION

                    Copyright 2000 Times Publishing Company


                              90 of 302 DOCUMENTS

                         St. Petersburg Times (Florida)

            September 27, 2000, Wednesday, 0 South Pinellas Edition

Secret evidence bill headed for vote in House

BYLINE: SUSAN ASCHOFF

SECTION: NATIONAL; Pg. 3A

LENGTH: 422 words



Legislation inspired by the plight of a Tampa man jailed for three years on
secret evidence was approved Tuesday by the House Judiciary Committee.

The committee sent the Secret Evidence Repeal Act to the full House after it was
amended to better balance concerns about national security with the civil rights
of immigrants accused of having terrorist ties.

The largest obstacle now becomes time: An affirmative vote in the House and the
Senate is needed before the session ends next month.

The original legislation would have banned the use of secret evidence entirely.
The compromise instead applies the Classified Information Procedures Act, or
CIPA, to cases involving security issues and immigrants.

Under CIPA, a federal judge reviews the secret, or classified, information and
gives an unclassified summary to the immigration judge and the immigrant. Secret
evidence would, in effect, be eliminated for the immigration hearing because the
judge, the immigrant and the attorneys for the Immigration and Naturalization
Service would all be dealing with the same information in court.

Currently, the INS attorneys and judge meet in private for presentation of
secret evidence. The information is not shared with the immigrant, who is left
to guess at its contents or provided a frequently cursory summary of what was
alleged.

The 28-0 voice vote, with nine members absent, included Florida Reps. Charles
Canady, R-Lakeland, and Robert Wexler, D-Boca Raton. Rep. Bill McCollum, a
Republican running for Senate, was absent but had strongly opposed the original
bill. Rep. Joe Scarborough, R-Pensacola, is one of its sponsors.

Several committee members said the legislation would free dangerous terrorists.
But they joined the majority in supporting a compromise version because current
practice violates the Constitution, many agreed.

Mazen Al-Najjar of Tampa, a former Arabic teacher at the University of South
Florida, is among two dozen or more immigrants nationwide involved in secret
evidence cases. Most are detained as suspected associates of terrorists but
charged with no crime. In Al-Najjar's case, a federal judge has ordered him back
to immigration court Oct. 10 after finding that his 1997 hearing denied his
rights to due process.

Sami Al-Arian, a University of South Florida professor and Al-Najjar's
brother-in-law, was surprised and elated by Tuesday's victory.

"The vote shows they have a very strong resentment against secret evidence," he
said of the members after watching the hearing.


LOAD-DATE: September 27, 2000

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                    Copyright 2000 Times Publishing Company


                              91 of 302 DOCUMENTS

                         St. Petersburg Times (Florida)

              October 12, 2000, Thursday, 0 South Pinellas Edition

Sister says brother is no terrorist

BYLINE: SUSAN ASCHOFF

SECTION: CITY & STATE; Pg. 3B

LENGTH: 481 words

DATELINE: BRADENTON



The woman testifies that the ex-USF teacher sought funds only for needy West
Bank and Gaza children.

The sister of a man accused of raising funds for Middle East terrorists said
Wednesday that the only money solicited was for needy children and orphans in
the West Bank and Gaza.

Testifying at an immigration hearing held to decide if her brother, Mazen
Al-Najjar, should get bail after being jailed 3 1/2 years  on secret evidence,
Nahla Al-Arian said he is a peaceful man who has never advocated violence or
aligned himself with a terrorist group.

The government says Al-Najjar, a former University of South Florida teacher,
used a Tampa think tank and political conferences as fronts for fundraising for
the Palestinian Islamic Jihad.

After five days of testimony at his bail hearing, however, attorneys for the
Immigration and Naturalization Service have yet to produce proof of fundraising
or any terrorist activity.

Al-Najjar is expected to be the sole witness today in the Bradenton courtroom.

A Palestinian who has lived in the United States almost 20 years, he is fighting
deportation on an expired visa, as is his wife, Fedaa. His sister is a U.S.
citizen.

"We didn't support one group over the other" at the political conferences, Nahla
Al-Arian said Wednesday. "We invited people from all different parts of the
world. We thought America was a free country and could benefit from hearing
about our (Palestinian) cause and other Muslim issues."

Al-Najjar's attorneys narrowly focused their questions on her charity work. Her
husband, Sami Al-Arian, is also a target of the government's investigation, and
Mrs. Al-Arian brought an attorney along to protect her right not to incriminate
her spouse.

But the government, as it had with two earlier witnesses, did not tackle what
was said. Instead, INS general counsel Daniel Vara went after credibility.

Vara produced a 1993 income tax return and asked  why there were 10 deductions
though she has five children, suggesting she had lied on the form.

She explained that her and her husband's parents often live with them. Vara
asked what property she and her husband owned. He asked about a $ 1,000
"transaction" she made last year.

Without more detail, Mrs. Al-Arian said, she could not answer his questions.

Earlier, professor Basheer Nafi, a former member of the Tampa think tank known
as the World and Islam Studies Enterprise, testified by phone from London.

Vara asked him if he would walk out of a political conference where Israel or
the United States were vilified.

"Why should I?" said Nafi. "People, in a moment of anger when they see their
father and brothers and their relatives being shot at by Israeli soldiers, will
say something like that."

He said he denounces violence, and he is not, nor has he ever been, a member of
the Islamic Jihad, as the government has alleged.


LOAD-DATE: October 12, 2000

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DISTRIBUTION: CITY & STATE; TAMPA & STATE; METRO & STATE

GRAPHIC: BLACK AND WHITE PHOTO, BOYZELL HOSEY; BLACK AND WHITE PHOTO; Nahla
Al-Arian talks to attorney Robert Cannella and her husband, Sami Al-Arian, in
Bradenton. ; Mazen Al-Najjar

                    Copyright 2000 Times Publishing Company


                              92 of 302 DOCUMENTS

                         St. Petersburg Times (Florida)

             November 11, 2000, Saturday, 0 South Pinellas Edition

Judge will hear secret evidence

BYLINE: SUSAN ASCHOFF

SECTION: CITY & STATE; Pg. 3B

LENGTH: 267 words



A judge will review information offered by officials wanting to keep Mazen
Al-Najjar in jail.

The federal government says it will present secret evidence to a judge to try to
keep a Tampa man in jail after losing its case in open court.

Mazen Al-Najjar, a former University of South Florida teacher, has been detained
3 1/2 years in an Immigration and Naturalization Service facility in Bradenton.
He is accused of fundraising for the Palestinian Islamic Jihad.

But after a weeklong hearing, Immigration Judge R. Kevin McHugh ruled Oct. 27
that the government failed to prove any of its allegations. Al-Najjar is not a
threat and may be released, McHugh said.

The government had until Friday to file court papers to force the hearing into a
second phase and did so late Thursday. Under immigration law, it may now share
information it deems sensitive with the judge alone.

Al-Najjar was ordered deported for overstaying a student visa. In a hearing
three years ago, McHugh denied him bail during appeals. McHugh heard secret
evidence and told Al-Najjar it showed "an association with the Palestinian
Islamic Jihad" and that he posed a threat to national security.

Al-Najjar got another chance at freedom when a federal judge in May ordered a
rehearing. Al-Najjar's rights to due process had been violated, said U.S.
District Judge Joan A. Lenard.

She did not forbid the use of secret evidence, but said McHugh must first make a
ruling on the public case.

Then if secret evidence is used, Lenard said Al-Najjar must be given enough
information about its contents to defend himself.


LOAD-DATE: November 11, 2000

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DISTRIBUTION: CITY & STATE; METRO & STATE; TAMPA & STATE

                    Copyright 2000 Times Publishing Company


                              93 of 302 DOCUMENTS

                         St. Petersburg Times (Florida)

             December 07, 2000, Thursday, 0 South Pinellas Edition

Bail is granted in secret evidence case

BYLINE: SUSAN ASCHOFF

SECTION: NATIONAL; Pg. 1A

LENGTH: 890 words



The government obtains an emergency stay, and an immigrant from Gaza with USF
ties remains in jail.

An immigration judge Wednesday ordered the release of Mazen Al-Najjar after
three years in jail on secret evidence, saying the government failed to give him
enough information to dispute his alleged ties to terrorists.

But the Tampa man remained in a Bradenton detention facility Wednesday evening.

The Immigration and Naturalization Service sought an emergency stay, granted at
7:20 p.m., for 24 hours. Today, briefs will be filed by both sides. An
immigrations appeals panel will either free Al-Najjar or keep him in jail
pending further court action.

Wednesday's tempered victory comes after a years-long struggle to free the
43-year-old teacher waged by civil rights groups and, more recently, more than
100 members of Congress. His detention without charges and on evidence he could
not see, they maintain, is unconstitutional.

Family and friends in Tampa gathered at the Al-Qassam Mosque for evening prayers
in observance of the Muslim holy month of Ramadan and collected money to pay his
$ 8,000 bail.

"I am so happy. This is his fourth Ramadan in jail, and he will now get to spend
it with his family," said Sami Al-Arian, Al-Najjar's brother-in-law and a
University of South Florida professor.

Al-Najjar, an immigrant from Gaza who has lived in the United States almost 20
years, was ordered deported for overstaying a student visa. He appealed but was
jailed in May 1997 on secret evidence as a terrorist threat to national
security.

The order for his release comes about two weeks after Immigration Judge R. Kevin
McHugh reportedly took secret government testimony on Al-Najjar's alleged
connections to the Palestinian Islamic Jihad. The group, based in Damascus,
Syria, has claimed responsibility for terrorist bombings to derail the Middle
East peace process.

Al-Najjar says he does not support terrorism. The government says he raised
funds for the group through his work at a USF-affiliated think tank and at
political conferences in the early 1990s.

In 10 days of public testimony ended in October, McHugh found the government
failed to prove a single allegation. The government then presented its secret
evidence, classified due to national security concerns, only to McHugh.

McHugh did not address the contents of what was submitted in secret in the
six-page order issued Wednesday, except to say it concerned the Palestinian
Islamic Jihad. He said the government may be warranted in not revealing its
information to Al-Najjar and the public.

But he refused to consider the secret evidence in ruling on Al-Najjar's bail
because the legally mandated summary of its contents to be shared with Al-Najjar
failed to provide "a meaningful opportunity for him to defend against that
evidence," McHugh wrote.

He closed the case and ordered Al-Najjar released on $ 8,000 bail.

Al-Arian, the USF professor, finished teaching a computer class Wednesday to
find a dozen messages on his voice mail about the order. However, he and
Al-Najjar's attorneys were informed the jail was closed for the day.

Wednesday evening, he hoped to reach House Minority Whip David Bonior, D-Mich.,
who last session sponsored a bill to ban the use of secret evidence, to
intervene with the administration and end the case.

David Cole, a Georgetown University law professor who has successfully defended
a dozen immigrants in secret evidence cases, led Al-Najjar's defense team at the
Bradenton court hearing. He remained hopeful the government would end its
pursuit.

"I am overjoyed for Mazen. I respect Judge McHugh for refusing to consider the
secret evidence when he found Mazen Al-Najjar would not have a meaningful
opportunity to defend himself," Cole said. "That's what we were really pushing
since the beginning of this case. One never has a meaningful opportunity to
defend against evidence you can't see."

An INS representative could not be reached for comment.

McHugh is the same judge who denied Al-Najjar bail in 1997 after hearing secret
evidence. After an immigration appeals panel upheld McHugh, Al-Najjar's
attorneys sought relief from a federal judge in Miami. Last May, U.S. District
Judge Joan A. Lenard said his constitutional rights to due process were
violated. If secret evidence were to be used against Al-Najjar, enough
information had to be shared with him so he could defend himself, she said.

McHugh's ruling mirrored Lenard's language and found the government fell short.

Al-Najjar is one of about two dozen immigrants, almost all Muslims or Arabs, who
have been detained on secret evidence. No criminal charges have been filed
against the men.

Presidential candidates Al Gore, George W. Bush and Ralph Nader all called for
changes. A coalition of national Muslim groups endorsed Bush shortly before the
Nov. 7 election, saying Gore and the Clinton administration have failed to act
against the discriminatory practice.

Al-Najjar and his wife, Fedaa Al-Najjar, remain under a deportation order. They
will argue their appeal before the 11th U.S. Circuit Court of Appeals in Atlanta
in January. Their three daughters are U.S. citizens. Al-Najjar now will likely
argue he qualifies for asylum because the U.S. government's terrorist label has
guaranteed no other country will take him.


LOAD-DATE: December 7, 2000

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: COLOR PHOTO; Mazen Al-Najjar

                    Copyright 2000 Times Publishing Company


                              94 of 302 DOCUMENTS

                         St. Petersburg Times (Florida)

              December 08, 2000, Friday, 0 South Pinellas Edition

Detained teacher held indefinitely

BYLINE: SUSAN ASCHOFF

SECTION: CITY & STATE; Pg. 1B

LENGTH: 699 words



An immigration appeals panel decides to hold the Tampa teacher indefinitely
despite a judge's order to release him on bail.

Mazen Al-Najjar came within hours of freedom Thursday, but neither an order from
a judge nor power lobbying at the White House would open the door to his
Bradenton cell.

The 43-year-old Tampa teacher has been detained 3 1/2 years on secret evidence
alleging he is a terrorist. On Thursday an immigration appeals panel decided to
hold him indefinitely despite a judge's order to release him on bail.

The stay, requested by attorneys for the Immigration and Naturalization Service,
was issued three hours before Al-Najjar likely would have posted bail.

"Oh, my God. Oh, my God," said his wife, Fedaa Al-Najjar, upon hearing of the
stay. A pharmacist, she left work early to clean and cook for her husband and be
with their three daughters. "Why are they doing that?" she said in a whisper.
"What do they want?"

In Washington, D.C., House Minority Whip David Bonior met Thursday afternoon
with White House Chief of Staff John Podesta to urge Al-Najjar's release. Upon
word of the stay, he called for the resignation of Attorney General Janet Reno.

"This is just an outrage in this country," the Michigan Democrat said. "The
judges have ruled there is no evidence against this man. I've been in this
business for 30 years, and I've never seen an injustice like this."

Earlier Thursday, Reno issued a 45-day stay on the release of another immigrant
held on secret evidence. Algerian Anwar Haddam has twice won political asylum
but is still fighting INS appeals. Haddam has been jailed four years in Virginia
and is refusing to eat.

Bonior introduced a bill last session to ban the use of secret evidence against
immigrants. About two dozen nationwide are involved in such cases, jailed
without bond as terrorists but not told of the evidence against them or charged
with any crime. They are overwhelmingly Arab and Muslim, as is Al-Najjar.

"This is very similar to a knock on one's door by the Gestapo," Bonior said.

Meanwhile, Al-Najjar's attorneys today intend to file an emergency motion for
his release with U.S. District Judge Joan A. Lenard in Miami. Lenard has been
involved in the case on constitutional grounds.

Al-Najjar moved to the United States from Gaza almost 20 years ago to attend
college. He earned a doctorate in engineering, worked as a part-time Arabic
teacher at the University of South Florida and at a USF-affiliated think tank
nearby. He was ordered deported for overstaying his student visa and was jailed
on secret evidence after stories in the Tampa Tribune in 1995 said the think
tank was a front for Middle East terrorists.

Though the government failed to prove any terrorist activity or fundraising by
Al-Najjar at the public hearing that ended in October, INS District Counsel
Daniel Vara said Thursday that Immigration Judge R. Kevin McHugh erred in
ordering his release on Wednesday.

"The government has a significant amount of evidence that Al-Najjar has engaged
in acts of terrorism," Vara said.

When asked what evidence, he responded, "It's classified. Its disclosure would
harm the national security of the United States."

In 10 days of public testimony, Al-Najjar was shown in 40 seconds of videotape
introducing a speaker at a political conference, and said he was an acquaintance
of Middle East scholars the government says are terrorists but whom the INS
granted visas.

It is not known what the secret evidence against him contains, only that the
government says it links Al-Najjar to the Palestinian Islamic Jihad, a
designated terrorist group based in Syria.

In May, Judge Lenard ordered the rehearing on the matter of bail after finding
Al-Najjar was denied due process in 1997 because the government didn't give him
enough information to defend himself. McHugh this week found the same.

The government's appeal to the Board of Immigration Appeals, whether successful
or not, could keep Al-Najjar in jail for months.

"Our argument is that (the BIA) does not have jurisdiction in this case," said
Nancy Chang, who is with the Center for Constitutional Rights and one of
Al-Najjar's attorneys.


LOAD-DATE: December 8, 2000

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DISTRIBUTION: CITY & STATE; TAMPA & STATE; METRO & STATE

GRAPHIC: COLOR PHOTO, BOYZELL HOSEY; BLACK AND WHITE PHOTO; Fedaa Al-Najjar,
wife of jailed immigrant Mazen Al-Najjar, talks with a relative Thursday evening
after hearing the bad news he would not be released. "Why are they doing that?"
she asked.; Mazen Al-Najjar (ran TAMPA & STATE)

                    Copyright 2000 Times Publishing Company


                              95 of 302 DOCUMENTS

                         St. Petersburg Times (Florida)

             December 09, 2000, Saturday, 0 South Pinellas Edition

Al-Najjar fights anew for release

BYLINE: SUSAN ASCHOFF

SECTION: CITY & STATE; Pg. 3B

LENGTH: 649 words



Citing the constitution, attorneys for the detained teacher file an emergency
motion for his release pending a government appeal.

Attorneys for Mazen Al-Najjar went to federal court Friday, filing an emergency
motion for his immediate release on constitutional grounds.

The Gaza immigrant, jailed more than three years on secret evidence accusing him
of terrorism, came within hours of freedom Thursday. An immigration judge
ordered his release on bail, but attorneys for the Immigration and
Naturalization Service won an indefinite stay so the government can appeal.

While Al-Najjar dejectedly paced the same cell in Bradenton Thursday night,
another immigrant in a secret evidence case in Virginia was quietly released to
his wife and four children, even though U.S. Attorney General Janet Reno had
ordered a stay on that release.

Algerian Anwar Haddam will be free while he fights a government appeal of the
political asylum that was granted him by an immigration appeals panel.

An INS spokeswoman, when asked why Al-Najjar could not be freed pending appeal,
said the cases are different. The stay of Al-Najjar's release on bail was for an
order from an immigration judge. Haddam's case already has moved up the
administrative ladder for review by Reno, said INS spokeswoman Maria Cardona.

"The INS is obviously desperate," said Haddam's attorney, Malea Kiblan. "I think
the release is indicative of that: It's clear none of these cases have panned
out."

Al-Najjar's family and supporters believe politics is making the government take
a harder line in his case: He has been linked to the Damascus-based Palestinian
Islamic Jihad, and the situation in the Middle East remains volatile.

The 46-year-old Haddam is a member of the Islamic Salvation Front and was an
elected member of the Algerian parliament. The military voided the elections in
1992, and he came to the United States. Haddam believes he was detained for four
years by the U.S. government to silence his politicking.

"I don't ask people to support my views, but to support my rights. To be treated
as a criminal, to be prevented from being a part of the life of my children . .
. is a travesty of justice," Haddam said Friday after his unexpected release.
After waiting in an INS office for hours Thursday, he did not know he was free,
he said, until the handcuffs were removed and he saw his attorney.

Al-Najjar, meanwhile, was ordered deported on an expired student visa in 1997,
then jailed without bail when Immigration Judge R. Kevin McHugh heard secret
evidence alleging ties to the Palestinian Islamic Jihad. When immigration
appeals failed, Al-Najjar's attorneys went to U.S. District Judge Joan A. Lenard
in Miami.

Lenard ordered a rehearing. She said the 43-year-old father of three was denied
his constitutional rights because he could not defend himself against secret
evidence. The government can use it, Lenard acknowledged, but it must give
Al-Najjar information about its contents so he can fight back.

McHugh ordered Al-Najjar released Thursday after finding the government failed
to tell Al-Najjar enough information about the evidence. A one-page unclassified
summary and a 16-page "unclassified extract" - information with sensitive
material blacked out - were insufficient, McHugh said. The summary links
Al-Najjar to the Palestinian Islamic Jihad but supplies no details. The extract,
McHugh said, has no additional information.

INS is appealing McHugh's decision to release Al-Najjar to the Board of
Immigration Appeals.

On Friday, Al-Najjar's attorneys filed an emergency motion with Lenard for
Al-Najjar's immediate release. They hope the judge will act within a week.

"The BIA and INS do not have the authority to decide the constitutional issues,"

 said Randall Marshall, legal director of the American Civil Liberties Union of
Florida and one of Al-Najjar's attorneys.


LOAD-DATE: December 9, 2000

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DISTRIBUTION: CITY & STATE; METRO & STATE; TAMPA & STATE

GRAPHIC: BLACK AND WHITE PHOTO; Mazen Al-Najjar (ran Tampa & State)

                    Copyright 2000 Times Publishing Company


                              96 of 302 DOCUMENTS

                         St. Petersburg Times (Florida)

                           December 10, 2000, Sunday

Adding to the outrage

SECTION: PERSPECTIVE; EDITORIALS; Pg. 2D

LENGTH: 427 words



On Thursday, the Board of Immigration Appeals issued an indefinite stay of an
immigration judge's decision to release Mazen Al-Najjar on $ 8,000 bond. The
former University of South Florida teacher has been in a Bradenton jail for the
past 3 1/2 years on the basis of secret evidence of alleged terrorist activity.

Talk about a legal roller coaster. On Wednesday, Al-Najjar was nearly a free
man. In a much-anticipated ruling, Immigration Judge R. Kevin McHugh ordered
Al-Najjar released on bond since the government had failed to provide his
defense team with a summary of the secret evidence sufficient to allow Al-Najjar
to defend himself. But just hours before his scheduled release, the BIA canceled
the homecoming with an emergency stay that it made indefinite the next day.

When House Minority Whip David Bonior, D-Mich., heard what happened, he was
incredulous: "The judges have ruled there is no evidence against this man. I've
been in this business for 30 years, and I've never seen an injustice like this."

 Bonior has been leading the effort in Congress to ban the use of secret
evidence against immigrants, using Al-Najjar's case as a model of the
fundamental unfairness being tolerated within our justice system. This newest
twist only adds to the outrage.

Al-Najjar's wife Fedaa responded to the BIA order with a plaintive: "Why are
they doing that? What do they want?"

Both good questions that deserve answers.

In the name of national security, the government has used secret evidence to
jail about two dozen immigrants across the country on suspected terrorism
charges, nearly all have been Arab and Muslim. And while it's disturbing enough
that we have imprisoned people without telling them why, in many of these cases
when the so-called classified information was finally released it has turned out
to be little more than rumor, guilt by association, presumptions based on
anti-Arab bias and charges from non-credible sources such as estranged spouses.
Still, the Justice Department has insisted on using every legal avenue to keep
these immigrants both in jail and in the dark as to the allegations against
them.

Al-Najjar's attorneys have filed an emergency motion in federal court alleging
his continued incarceration is unconstitutional. If the immigration courts, a
branch of the Justice Department themselves, aren't willing to provide a
semblance of justice, then it is up to the federal courts to do so.

Al-Najjar should have been freed  last week. Every hour he remains locked up
increases our national shame.


LOAD-DATE: December 11, 2000

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: EDITORIAL

                    Copyright 2000 Times Publishing Company


                              97 of 302 DOCUMENTS

                         St. Petersburg Times (Florida)

             December 16, 2000, Saturday, 0 South Pinellas Edition

Al-Najjar finally out after 3 years

BYLINE: SUSAN ASCHOFF

SECTION: NATIONAL; Pg. 1A

LENGTH: 1800 words

DATELINE: BRADENTON



Mazen Al-Najjar, detained without charges for three years and seven months as a
suspected terrorist, walked out of jail Friday afternoon to be enveloped by his
tearful children and a community of supporters who never gave up.

It took an order from Attorney General Janet Reno to finally free the Tampa
professor. Orders for his release issued over the past nine days by an
immigration judge and an immigration appeals panel were stayed when the
Immigration and Naturalization Service objected.

Reno announced her decision before noon, beating a self-imposed 5 p.m. deadline
so Al-Najjar's family could pay the $ 8,000 bail before the Bradenton INS office
closed.

"It is a great day for justice. It feels as if I've awakened from the
nightmare," the 43-year-old Palestinian said on the steps of the detention
facility. Wearing a cardigan and slacks brought to the jail by family, his brown
hair now white, Al-Najjar faced reporters and friends, many of whom carried
American flags because "we believe in the Constitution," he said.

His 10-year-old daughter, Sarah, would not release his hand. When he finished
speaking, he scooped up Safa, 5. His eldest daughter, 12-year-old Yara, stood to
the side. While she waited for her father to come out, Yara insisted he would
not, that the government would "trick us again."

Now, her father motioned to her. Yara went to him, her eyes tearful. He kissed
her forehead, and touched her cheek.

"Allahu akbar! Allahu akbar! God is great! God is great!," chanted the crowd,
many of them members of Al-Najjar's mosque in east Tampa.

His release is the latest chapter in a six-year controversy that began with
accusations that he and others at a University of South Florida-affiliated think
tank were harboring and funding Middle East terrorists. His detention would
become an international cause. The use of secret evidence against Al-Najjar and
others was discussed in Congress and referred to in a campaign debate by
President-elect George W. Bush.

Al-Najjar has always maintained his innocence. On Friday, he said he never lost
faith in his adopted country.

"It is only in this great country that my parents would become U.S. citizens.
They've never been citizens anywhere," he said of their naturalization
ceremonies earlier this year.

"The dark side of the experience is . . . me."

Al-Najjar remains under a deportation order and is working to fight it. His
attorneys are scheduled to argue his case and that of his wife, Fedaa, before
the 11th U.S. Circuit Court of Appeals in January. Ironically, Al-Najjar now
will claim that the U.S. government's accusations of terrorism, though unproven,
mean no country will take him and that he must be given political asylum here.

In a written statement Friday, Reno said she believes the nation has been
"well-served by the efforts of the INS to remove Mr. Al-Najjar expeditiously
from the country. We anticipate that he could be deported from the United States
soon."

Reno phoned House Minority Whip David Bonior and Sen. Spencer Abraham, both of
Michigan, on Friday to inform them first of her decision to lift the stay.
Bonior introduced legislation to ban the use of secret evidence. He flew to
Tampa for Al-Najjar's expected release on Tuesday, which was halted by Reno for
further review.

"Although I regret it took the Justice Department 1,300 days to release Mazen
Al-Najjar, I am pleased that this day has finally come," he said.

INS and FBI agents began looking at Al-Najjar about the time the Tampa Tribune
reported in May 1995 that he and his brother-in-law, tenured USF professor Sami
Al-Arian, were at the center of a terrorist cell operating out of Tampa.

A think tank called the World and Islam Studies Enterprise, or WISE, was a cover
for fundraising and plotting, agents said.

The investigation ignited when a WISE administrator, Ramadan Abdullah Shallah,
became the new leader of the Palestinian Islamic Jihad in October 1995, a few
months after leaving Tampa. The Damascus-based group claims bombings to derail
the Middle East peace process.

A grand jury closed its investigation without taking any action. No one has been
charged with a crime.

But Al-Najjar's visa had long ago expired. Agents arrested him in May 1997 and
asked him about his friends. He was ordered deported and detained without bail
on secret evidence alleging "an association with the Palestinian Islamic Jihad."

After losing in immigration courts, and with no more information on why he was
jailed than when he started, Al-Najjar sought relief in federal court. U.S.
District Judge Joan A. Lenard ordered a rehearing, saying the one in 1997
violated his constitutional right to due process - he could not defend himself
against secret evidence, she said in her ruling last May.

The task went to the same judge who denied Al-Najjar bail in the first place.

This time Immigration Judge R. Kevin McHugh again heard the government's secret
evidence. But McHugh said the summary to be shared with Al-Najjar was
insufficient. On Dec. 6, McHugh ordered him released. Three stays by the
government followed, the last one by Reno.

There are almost two dozen cases involving secret evidence against immigrants
across the United States. In some, detainees eventually were given pages of
evidence, while Al-Najjar has received only the one sentence tying him to the
terrorist group.

"I think it's better Janet Reno was the one who let him out," his sister Nahla
Al-Arian said Friday. "It helps his image in the community. He is not a bad
man."

Since 1987, 18 immigrants known to be jailed on secret evidence - virtually all
of them Arabs or Muslims - have won their cases and been released.

A chronology

DECEMBER 1981: Mazen Al-Najjar enters United States from Gaza on a student visa
and studies for his master's degree at North Carolina Agricultural and Technical
State University in Greensboro.

JUNE 1986: Al-Najjar moves to Tampa to be near family and friends and earn a
doctorate in engineering at the University of South Florida.

MAY 7, 1987: Al-Najjar asks the Immigration and Naturalization Service to meet
with him on his now-messy immigration status. He eventually obtains a work
permit, but no resolution.

FEB. 13, 1995: Al-Najjar's immigration case reopened.

MAY 1995: Tampa Tribune publishes stories linking Al-Najjar and his
brother-in-law Sami Al-Arian to Middle East terrorists.

JULY 18, 1996: An immigration hearing on Al-Najjar begins in Orlando, with the
government seeking to deport him as an illegal resident.

MAY 13, 1997: Al-Najjar and his wife, Fedaa, are ordered deported on expired
visas, he to the United Arab Emirates and she to Saudi Arabia, their last
countries of residence.

MAY 19: INS agents arrest Al-Najjar at his Temple Terrace apartment and take him
to an INS detention facility in Bradenton to be held while he appeals the
deportation order.

JUNE 6: Immigration Judge R. Kevin McHugh denies bail after reviewing classified
evidence from the government. McHugh issues a one-sentence summary that says
Al-Najjar is "associated with the Palestinian Islamic Jihad and a threat to
national security."

JULY 7, 1998: Deputy Attorney General Eric Holder, after reviewing Al-Najjar's
case, says his detention on secret evidence complies with procedures.

SEPT. 15: The Board of Immigration Appeals upholds McHugh's denial of bail.

DEC. 7: Al-Najjar asks to leave for Guyana in South America. No country in the
Middle East will take him because he is a Palestinian, and accused of terrorism,
he says. Guyana later denies admission as well.

DEC. 22, 1999: Al-Najjar's attorneys file a habeas petition in a Miami federal
court, demanding his release on constitutional grounds.

MAY 31, 2000: U.S. District Judge Joan A. Lenard in Miami rules the government
violated Al-Najjar's constitutional rights. If it wants to keep him jailed on
secret evidence, it must give him enough information about it to defend himself.
She orders a rehearing on bail, but stops short of releasing him herself.

JULY 24: Amnesty International declares Mazen Al-Najjar a prisoner of conscience
and asks the U.S. Justice Department to review his case.

AUG. 29: Immigration Judge McHugh begins the public bail hearing for Al-Najjar.
The government introduces videotapes of political conferences held in the early
1990s; Sami Al-Arian, Al-Najjar's brother-in-law, takes the stand and invokes
his Fifth Amendment right against self-incrimination 100 times because he, too,
is under investigation.

AUG. 30: INS agent William West fails to offer proof of his allegations that
Al-Najjar solicited money for the Palestinian Islamic Jihad, and exhibits
cursory knowledge of Middle East politics and history during second day of bond
hearing.

AUG. 31: Al-Najjar's attorneys call a halt when the government says it is ready
to present secret evidence in a closed-door session with McHugh. Georgetown
University law professor David Cole argues that McHugh must rule on the public
portion of hearing first, and not take secret evidence until he ensures that a
summary to be given Al-Najjar is adequate.

SEPT. 12: Lenard, the federal judge, agrees with Al-Najjar's attorneys, saying
the immigration judge must first rule on bail based on the public case, then may
proceed to the classified one. She does not order the government to release its
summary in advance.

OCT. 10: Al-Najjar's bail hearing resumes, and in four days of testimony the
government labels monies raised for orphans and in personal accounts as
fundraising for the Palestinian Islamic Jihad. Al-Najjar counters that none of
the activity was for terrorists.

OCT. 27: Immigration Judge McHugh says he will release Al-Najjar immediately,
finding the government failed to prove a single allegation in open court, unless
the government now wants to submit secret evidence.

DEC. 6: After hearing secret testimony, then reviewing a one-page summary of its
contents to be shared with Al-Najjar, Immigration Judge McHugh finds summary
inadequate and orders Al-Najjar released on $ 8,000 bail. The Board of
Immigration Appeals in Washington grants a 24-hour hold at the request of the
INS, which says it wants to appeal. The stay is extended indefinitely the next
day.

DEC. 11: INS has little likelihood of winning its appeal, the Board of
Immigration Appeals finds, and vacates the stay so Al-Najjar can bail out.

DEC. 12: Family and friends are at the jail when doors open at 8, but after more
than an hour's wait, Attorney General Janet Reno stays Al-Najjar's release,
until 5 p.m. Dec. 15 and pending her decision about whether the government will
proceed. Al-Najjar's attorneys object with Reno and with U.S. District Judge
Lenard in Miami.

DEC. 15: Al-Najjar released on bail.

- Compiled by researcher

Caryn Baird


LOAD-DATE: December 16, 2000

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: COLOR PHOTO, BOYZELL HOSEY; BLACK AND WHITE PHOTO, BOYZELL HOSEY; COLOR
PHOTO; Mazen Al-Najjar, with daughter Sarah, wife, Fedaa, and nephew Ali
Al-Arian; Fedaa Al-Najjar,and her daughters, Safa and Sarah; Mike Alstott

                    Copyright 2000 Times Publishing Company


                              98 of 302 DOCUMENTS

                         St. Petersburg Times (Florida)

             December 21, 2000, Thursday, 0 South Pinellas Edition

Attempt to soften law meets hard line

BYLINE: MARY JACOBY

SECTION: NATIONAL; Pg. 1A

LENGTH: 1023 words

DATELINE: WASHINGTON



Bill McCollum's bill to reform a law that critics say unfairly deports
immigrants dies in the Senate.

A woman who immigrated from Germany as an infant was almost deported for pulling
someone's hair. A grandmother who wrote $ 100 worth of bad checks two decades
ago came close to getting the boot.

Such were the well-publicized and unintended consequences of the 1996 Illegal
Immigration Reform and Immigrant Responsibility Act, a law Rep. Bill McCollum
helped shepherd onto the books as a senior member of the House Judiciary
Committee.

But McCollum, who in November lost a bid for the U.S. Senate, came to regret his
involvement with the law. Last year, the Longwood Republican introduced a bill
to repeal a retroactivity clause widely criticized as unfair. The clause has
snared immigrants for a range of violations that were not deportable offenses
when they were committed.

The House unanimously passed McCollum's bill on Sept. 19. But last week, it died
in the Senate at the hands of Texas Sen. Phil Gramm, a Republican.

The bill "welcomed money launderers, tax evaders, perjurers, fugitives from
justice, alien smugglers and an assortment of other scoundrels to live among
us," according to a memo Gramm's office forwarded to the St. Petersburg Times in
response to a request for comment.

It "even extended this special protection to people who coerced children into
prostitution," the memo said.

McCollum did not respond to a request for comment. After his Senate defeat last
month by Florida Insurance Commissioner Bill Nelson, he has been shuttling
between Washington and Florida looking for a job.

There has been speculation that McCollum is up for a position in the Bush
administration, possibly as the "drug czar," who oversees federal efforts to
stem the flow of illegal drugs, or as head of the Federal Deposit Insurance
Corp.

Rep. Barney Frank, D-Mass., who worked with McCollum on the bill's passage,
called Gramm "intellectually dishonest" in his objections.

Frank noted that the House-sponsored reform would not have changed current law,
which requires the automatic deportation of resident aliens who have ever been
convicted of rape or sexual abuse of a minor.

Rather, the reform aimed to inject common sense into a law that had taken away
immigration judges' discretion in deciding close-call deportation cases, Frank
said.

"We were talking about people who got convicted of drunk driving 11 years ago,
or got in a fight in a bar or shoplifted. The categories (Gramm) is talking
about are just irrelevant," Frank said.

When asked to elaborate on Gramm's objections, his spokesman, Larry Neal,
forwarded information that suggested the Texan was displeased with the House
attempts to eliminate the retroactivity provisions.

For money laundering, tax evasion, perjury and other crimes mentioned by Gramm,
the 1996 law required non-citizens to be deported if sentenced to as little as
one year in prison. The provision was also made retroactive.

What Gramm did not like, his spokesman suggested, was the House attempt to
return to a five-year sentence as a standard for deporting non-citizens who were
convicted before 1996.

Still, Gramm's objection to the bill was surprising, given its strong backing by
some of the House's most conservative Republicans.

In addition to McCollum, Judiciary Committee Chairman Henry Hyde and Rep. Lamar
Smith, R-Texas, chairman of the Judiciary immigration subcommittee, had fought
for the bill. McCollum lobbied Gramm on the matter.

On the House floor in September, McCollum called the 1996 law's deportation
provisions a "manifest injustice" that had been inserted by senators into the
bill against his will.

McCollum's reform was set to be folded into a massive end-of-session spending
bill approved by Congress last week. But Gramm blocked it by leveraging unique
rules of the Senate that allow a single member to, in effect, threaten a
filibuster.

The 1996 law expanded the list of offenses classified as "aggravated felonies"
for immigration purposes.

In some cases, the threshold was lowered for what constitutes a deportable
offense. Before 1996, for example, a federal money-laundering conviction
involving more than $ 100,000 was a deportable offense. In 1996, the threshold
was lowered to $ 10,000 and made retroactive.

The retroactivity provision is how a Georgia woman named Mary Anne Gehris became
entangled in INS proceedings. She came to the U.S. as a baby from Germany and in
1988 pleaded guilty to a misdemeanor for pulling someone's hair. A judge
sentenced her to a one-year suspended sentence.

The INS was moving to deport her when New York Times columnist Anthony Lewis
took up her cause. Gehris' deportation proceedings ended when she was pardoned
this year by the Georgia Board of Pardons and Paroles.

The Georgia board also pardoned Mary Gibbs, a grandmother who was to be deported
for writing $ 100 worth of bad checks in the 1970s.

McCollum's bill would have prevented such cases from automatically going to
deportation proceedings.

McCollum's interest in softening the 1996 law he helped shape came after it
snared the Canadian-born son of a local Republican Party official.

In late 1998, Robert Anthony Broley, son of Orange County Republican Party
treasurer Robert M. Broley, was expelled from the country after spending four
years in the Marion Correction Institution on charges of fraud, burglary, grant
theft and forgery.

McCollum tried to bring Broley back to the United States by introducing a
private relief bill. McCollum's private bill would have helped only Broley and
not addressed the plight of other immigrants; he came under criticism when the
Times reported his efforts on Broley's behalf in January 1999.

In July 2000, in the midst of his race against Nelson for the Senate, McCollum
introduced his untitled bill to reform the process.

The bill would not have affected Broley, however. Broley had been sentenced to
five- and nine-year sentences for his crimes, a length that qualified him for
deportation under any version of the law.

- Times researcher Cathy Wos contributed to this report.


LOAD-DATE: December 21, 2000

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: BLACK AND WHITE PHOTO, (2); BLACK AND WHITE PHOTO, Associated Press;
Barney Frank; Phil Gramm; Rep. Bill McCollum.

                    Copyright 2000 Times Publishing Company


                              99 of 302 DOCUMENTS

                         St. Petersburg Times (Florida)

               January 8, 2004 Thursday 0 South Pinellas Edition

Bush calls migrant policy the right thing to do

SOURCE: Compiled from Times staff and wire reports

SECTION: NATIONAL; Pg. 3A

LENGTH: 536 words

DATELINE: WASHINGTON


President Bush, saying that the nation has failed millions of illegal immigrants
who live in fear of deportation, Wednesday proposed an ambitious plan that would
allow undocumented workers to legally hold jobs in the United States for the
first time.

"We should have immigration laws that work and make us proud. Yet today we do
not," Bush said in the White House's East Room, which he entered to loud cheers
from dozens of representatives from Hispanic organizations and immigration
groups. He urged Congress to approve a temporary worker program.

Allowing undocumented workers, who make up an unknown percentage of the
7-million illegal immigrants now in the United States, to work legally would
benefit all Americans, Bush argued.

He said it would make the nation's borders more secure by allowing officials to
focus more on the real threats to the country and would meet U.S. employers'
dire need for workers willing to take the low-wage, low-skill jobs unwanted by
many Americans.

It also is the right thing to do, Bush said, to pull immigrants who now live in
the shadows of American society under the protection of U.S. labor laws, allow
them to travel freely back and forth to their home countries, bring dependents
they can support here with them and grant them the confidence to talk openly to
authorities about crimes and exploitation on the job.

"One of the primary reasons America became a great power in the 20th century is
because we welcomed the talent and the character and the patriotism of immigrant
families," the president said. "We must make our immigration laws more rational
and more humane. And I believe we can do so without jeopardizing the livelihoods
of American citizens."

But even as Bush made the announcement, the tough sales job ahead for the White
House was apparent as the president's plan drew heated criticism from both the
right and the left.

Many balked at the idea of any reward for people who broke the law by coming to
the United States.

"I think it is an insult to every citizen who is here. It is an insult to
everyone who is trying to get here. This is just rewarding bad behavior," said
Rep. Ginny Brown-Waite, R-Brooksville. She also said it would not address the
problems that led to the Sept. 11 attacks.

"We need serious border patrol. We need to prevent the illegals from coming
here. You would think we would have learned something after 9/11," Brown-Waite
said.

Rep. Lamar Smith, R-Texas, agreed: "Guest worker programs and gradual amnesty
provide cover for terrorists."

Rep. Mark Foley, R-West Palm Beach, said he liked the proposal because it
acknowledges the many "hard-working" illegal residents who deserve protection.

The proposal also was aimed at smoothing the United States' sometimes rocky
relations with Mexico before a visit by Bush there next week. But the plan was
not the broad and immediate amnesty program that Mexican President Vicente Fox
has wanted, and the Mexican government's response was tepid. Fox, after a call
Wednesday morning from Bush outlining the plan, called it merely "very
interesting."

- Information from the Washington Post, Associated Press and Times staff writer
Bill Adair was used in this report.

LOAD-DATE: January 8, 2004

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: PHOTO, Associated Press; Speaking Wednesday at the White House,
President George W. Bush drew cheers from members of Hispanic groups.

                    Copyright 2004 Times Publishing Company


                              100 of 302 DOCUMENTS

                         St. Petersburg Times (Florida)

                January 12, 2004 Monday 0 South Pinellas Edition

Bold, broad strokes

SECTION: EDITORIAL; Pg. 8A

LENGTH: 735 words


President Bush has shown courage in reopening the

national conversation about illegal immigration. But

real reform will be hard to come by.

President Bush's plan to give some form of legal status to illegal immigrant
workers should be applauded - cautiously. The basic principles Bush has set
forth to address this nation's illegal immigration problem are sound. But the
president wants Congress to work out the details on this politically touchy
issue. However, if this is the real deal and not just an election year ploy to
appeal to Hispanic voters and industries that rely on low-skilled workers, Bush
will have to explain the plan more fully and then put his political muscle
behind getting a plan through Congress.

Bush deserves credit for reopening the national debate over illegal immigration.
For too long our political leaders have tried to ignore the estimated the
8-million to 14-million undocumented immigrants in this country, and both the
nation and the illegal workers have paid a price. Bush had begun to formulate an
immigration reform proposal at the beginning of his presidency but shelved it
after the 9/11 attacks. Now that Bush has put it back on the table, he needs to
lead the political debate on this issue.

In essence, Bush is proposing a guest worker program that would give illegal
immigrants access to work visas for a period of three years. The visas would be
renewable but the proposal doesn't say how many times. Undocumented workers
currently in this country would benefit by obtaining temporary legal status,
allowing them and their families to freely cross the border without resorting to
dangerous desert crossings. And coming out from the shadows would give formerly
undocumented workers access to legal protections to challenge unfair employment
practices. Bush said part of his proposal is to guarantee all guest workers the
same employment rights as Americans, including wage and hour protections, safety
standards and workers compensation.

But even with these benefits, immigrant rights advocacy groups are expressing
dissatisfaction because Bush pointedly rejected the work visa program as a step
toward permanent status. This is no amnesty, Bush stressed. The president is
right on this point. Those who ignored our laws and jumped the waiting list for
citizenship should not be invited to skip to the front of the line. At the same
time, Bush is asking for an increase in the number of green cards awarded. That
is precisely how our nation should be making the American dream available to
immigrants, through a generous increase in invitations to come live here.

No doubt agricultural interests and the hotel and restaurant industry are
pleased with the Bush plan, which would provide employers with a ready supply of
cheap labor without having to worry about immigration raids and deportation.
According to Bush, employers would first have to prove that no American was
interested in the job before it could be filled by a guest worker. But the very
option of having poor immigrants fill low-skilled jobs will put downward
pressure on wages and make those jobs less attractive to Americans.

The real question for Bush is, if we invite millions more immigrants into this
country temporarily, how will we ensure that they will leave when their visas
expire? There are some financial incentives in his proposal where money set
aside from payments to Social Security would be returned to immigrants in their
native country, but that might not be enough.

Before the 9/11 attacks there had been little or no political will to locate and
deport people who have overstayed their visas or who entered the country
illegally. Those on the political left have wanted to protect the mostly poor,
Hispanic workers, while those on the political right have not wanted to ruffle
business interests by interfering with their exploitable workforce. That put the
former Immigration and Naturalization Service, which is now subsumed mostly
within the Department of Homeland Security, in a no-win situation. Doing nothing
was the politically smart move.

Bush didn't say anything about the cost of immigration reform, but nothing much
will change unless the immigration service, already overwhelmed with cases, is
given the resources to make it work. We'll know soon enough whether Bush's
proposal is about election year politics or real immigration reform.

LOAD-DATE: January 12, 2004

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

SERIES: EDITORIALS

TYPE: EDITORIAL

                    Copyright 2004 Times Publishing Company


                              101 of 302 DOCUMENTS

                         St. Petersburg Times (Florida)

                 June 25, 2002 Tuesday 0 South Pinellas Edition

Immigrant health benefits

SECTION: EDITORIAL; Pg. 6A

LENGTH: 325 words


Florida Sen. Bob Graham has the right idea on welfare-reform reauthorization. He
plans to offer an amendment in committee today that would give states more
flexibility to offer federal health benefits to legal immigrant pregnant women
and children. His plan makes good sense, in both human and financial terms, and
should be supported by his colleagues in the U.S. Senate.

The original welfare-reform law imposed harsh and broad restrictions on federal
public assistance for legal immigrants. Though Congress has since restored some
benefits, legal immigrants arriving after 1996 remain ineligible for most
federal benefits - including health care for pregnant women and children -
during their first five years in this country.

Like many states, Florida has stepped in with substitute benefits, including
immunizations and regular checkups, for some immigrant children. But its
$13.5-million state program is limited, with capped enrollment. While it
currently covers 16,000 children, more than 22,000 are on a waiting list, one
that is growing by the day.

By relaxing federal restrictions, Graham's amendment would end these waiting
lists and give immigrant expectant mothers and children the health care they
need and deserve. With Florida's immigrant population on the rise, Graham's
office estimates that his amendment would authorize coverage, under the Medicaid
and Children's Health Insurance Programs, for some 100,000 additional immigrants
now going without.

Here is one of the biggest of many reasons why that would be money well-spent:
Children born here to legal immigrants are U.S. citizens, automatically eligible
for the benefits and social services afforded to every citizen. With prenatal
and early health care, those children stand a much better chance of growing up
to lead healthy and productive lives, with little need for state intervention or
support.

Investing a small sum now could pay large dividends later.

LOAD-DATE: June 25, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                    Copyright 2002 Times Publishing Company


                              102 of 302 DOCUMENTS

                         St. Petersburg Times (Florida)

                July 20, 2002 Saturday 0 South Pinellas Edition

Divided House panel backs Bush's security department

SOURCE: Compiled from Times Wires

SECTION: NATIONAL; Pg. 8A

LENGTH: 355 words

DATELINE: WASHINGTON; DETROIT


A divided House committee voted Friday to create the giant Homeland Security
Department sought by President Bush, but not before a contentious debate that
led to a one-year extension of a Dec. 31 deadline for airports to begin
screening airline bags for explosives.

The 5-4 vote for the Republican-sponsored bill by the House Select Committee on
Homeland Security came along strict party lines, fracturing the veneer of
bipartisanship that has surrounded the issue.

Democrats said they were opposed because of the airline baggage issue and for
other reasons, most notably a dispute over whether the department chief should
have greater flexibility over its work force.

Florida officers to fight terrorism

WASHINGTON - A group of law enforcement officers in Florida will be given the
ability to enforce immigration laws in cases involving terrorism and national
security, Justice Department officials said Friday.

Most local law enforcement officers do not have the authority to detain or
arrest a person solely on immigration charges.

Florida and the Justice Department agreed July 2 that 35 "experienced, seasoned
law enforcement personnel" could receive training from the INS, according to
Justice officials.

After the training, which began July 9, the officers will be assigned to seven
regional domestic security task forces across Florida.

Rights official foresees detention camps

DETROIT - A member of the U.S. Civil Rights Commission said in Detroit on Friday
he could foresee a scenario in which the public would demand internment camps
for Arab-Americans if Arab terrorists strike again in this country.

If there's a terrorist attack in America "and they come from the same ethnic
group that attacked the World Trade Center, you can forget about civil rights,"
commission member Peter Kirsanow said.

Kirsanow, who was appointed to the commission last year by President Bush, said
after the session that he doesn't support such camps and the government would
never envision them. He said he was merely saying public opinion would so
strongly favor the idea that it would be difficult to prevent.

LOAD-DATE: July 20, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                    Copyright 2002 Times Publishing Company


                              103 of 302 DOCUMENTS

                         St. Petersburg Times (Florida)

                            September 8, 2002 Sunday

Opportunists discover America's birthright citizenship

BYLINE: ROBYN E. BLUMNER

SECTION: PERSPECTIVE; Pg. 6D

LENGTH: 808 words


The events of Sept. 11 have caused many of us to reflect on who we are as
Americans. But a small group of immigration lawyers is using the opportunity to
ask: Who are Americans?

In a case involving an American-born man picked up on the battlefields of
Afghanistan, allegedly fighting for the Taliban, the Omaha-based Friends of
Immigration Law Enforcement (FILE) is asking a federal court to review our
presumptions about citizenship.

The group says Yaser Esam Hamdi, who was raised in Saudi Arabia to Saudi parents
but was born in Louisiana where his father was working on temporary assignment
as a chemical engineer, should not be considered a citizen simply by dint of his
birth on American soil. Hamdi was transferred from Guantanamo to a floating
Naval brig in Virginia when his citizenship was discovered. He is now asking a
federal court in a habeas corpus action whether, as an American, he can be held
as an enemy combatant without access to counsel or other due process. FILE is
asking to intervene in the case in order to posit its theory that Hamdi is
legally a Saudi citizen and should not be considered American.

It is easy to dismiss FILE's claims as xenophobic hogwash until you look more
closely at what the group is proposing.

The Constitution's citizenship clause in the 14th Amendment states: "(A)ll
Persons born or naturalized in the United States, and subject to the
jurisdiction thereof, are citizens of the United States." The group says,
despite popular belief, the history of this amendment makes clear it does not
confer "birthright citizenship."

The intention of the 14th Amendment was to make sure Southern states didn't deny
citizenship to the newly freed slaves and their offspring. After its passage in
1868 citizenship was not automatic at birth for everyone. The limiting clause,
that a citizen must be "subject to the jurisdiction" of this country, kept
children of foreign diplomats from obtaining American citizenship, and for
decades it precluded the citizenship of Native Americans born on reservations.
American Indians may have been subject to many of this nation's laws but their
primary allegiance was determined to be to a tribal government. Only later,
through an act of Congress in 1922 did Indians gain birthright citizenship. The
children of foreign nationals may be said to be in a similar stance.

FILE says our nation is doing itself a grave disservice by automatically
granting citizenship to the children of tourists, illegal aliens and temporary
workers. It says we are encouraging the abuse of our laws, borders and
hospitality.

Now, before there is any misunderstanding regarding my views on immigration,
count me as an American who doesn't want to close the door behind me. My
family's history in the United States dates back far enough that I'm not sure
where my forbearers came from or why they came, although I think for some the
Czar's uncomfortable attentions had something to do with it. But whatever it was
that prompted them to come, I'm very glad they did, and I want to share that
good-fortune with newcomers. Our nation has been built by waves of people coming
from around the globe sharing nothing but an idea of freedom. We should keep
Emma Lazarus' golden door open at a sustainable level.

What we should not do is allow legal loopholes to undermine a fair process of
entry. Those who jump the line shouldn't be rewarded for doing so. Yet, this is
precisely the system we've created. According to the 2000 census data there are
an estimated 8.7-million undocumented aliens living here. Part of the allure is
undoubtedly birthright citizenship. Not only will their children automatically
be American but through our system of giving immigration preference to the
immediate family of citizens, those children can later sponsor their parents and
other relatives for citizenship.

The British dumped this back in 1981 when abuses became rampant. Now, before a
child is deemed a British citizen at least one parent must be either a citizen
or a legal resident.

That may be why the Korean-language Web site  http://www.birthinusa.com isn't
flying pregnant South Koreans to England. No, those planes are coming straight
to LAX. Where, after a short stay and a few labor pains, the women leave with
their very own American. The service advertised on the Web site will even help
the mothers get their baby a Social Security number and a passport. And it's all
perfectly legal.

Yaser Esam Hamdi was born in this country and is American. It is inexcusable
that he is being denied the protection of our Constitution. But FILE is raising
a valid debate. Who becomes American is a question too important to be left to
smugglers of human cargo and exploitive travel companies.

LOAD-DATE: September 9, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                    Copyright 2002 Times Publishing Company


                              104 of 302 DOCUMENTS

                         St. Petersburg Times (Florida)

              February 20, 2001, Tuesday, 0 South Pinellas Edition

Lawyers group votes against secret evidence

SOURCE: Compiled from Times Wires

SECTION: NATIONAL; IN BRIEF; Pg. 8A

LENGTH: 672 words

DATELINE: SAN DIEGO; HONOLULU; WASHINGTON; CAPE CANAVERAL; ATLANTA; LITTLE ROCK,
Ark.



The leadership of the American Bar Association voted Monday to recommend ending
"zero tolerance" school discipline policies and stopping the government's use of
secret evidence in most immigration cases.

The zero tolerance policies, which can mandate expulsion or referral to juvenile
or criminal court "without regard to the circumstances or nature of the offense
or the student's history," are unfair and inappropriate for many children,
advocates said.

The ABA policy on secret evidence opposes its use in most immigration cases. An
exception would let the government supply unclassified summaries in
"extraordinary cases where there are legitimate national security concerns."

A report accompanying the recommendation cites the case of a Palestinian
academic jailed for three years in Florida without trial. Mazen Al-Najjar was
released in December without ever seeing the evidence behind the government's
allegation that he was a front for Islamic terrorists.

Sub commander refuses

to talk for now

HONOLULU - The commander of the U.S. submarine that sank a Japanese fishing
vessel has refused to discuss the accident with investigators from the National
Transportation Safety Board until the Navy completes its investigation,
officials said on Monday.

NTSB investigators met with Cmdr. Scott Waddle over the weekend when he told
them his lawyer recommended he respond only to written questions from the NTSB
for the time being and only about search and rescue efforts, NTSB spokesman Ted
Lopatkiewiscz said.

Study: Economy to cool

philanthropic giving

WASHINGTON - The stock market decline blunted the growth of philanthropic
foundations, with some predicting they would give away less as a result and
others expecting no increases in their grants, a survey found.

The outlook could worsen next year if the nation slips into a recession and
foundation asset values decline further, according to the Chronicle of
Philanthropy, a publication that focuses on non-profit organizations.

Its survey of 142 of the nation's largest foundations concluded that 15 expected
to give less this year and 64 predicted their grantmaking would remain flat.

Assets of the David and Lucile Packard Foundation in Los Altos, Calif., fell 25
percent to $ 9.8-billion while those of the W.K. Kellogg Foundation in Battle
Creek, Mich., dropped 24 percent to about $ 5-billion. The Packard Foundation
invests almost entirely in Hewlett-Packard stock and the Kellogg Foundation
mostly owns Kellogg Corp. stock.

Bad weather keeps

"Atlantis' in orbit

CAPE CANAVERAL - For the second day in a row, gusts of nearly 25 mph forced
space shuttle Atlantis and its astronauts to keep circling Earth on Monday
instead of coming home.

The weather was no better at the backup landing site in Southern California, so
Mission Control ordered the crew to spend a 13th day in orbit and aim for a
touchdown at 12:27 this afternoon.

Plane crashes, 4 missing

after Daytona 500 race

ATLANTA - Four men returning home from the Daytona 500 auto race were missing
after their plane crashed in the Atlantic Ocean off the Georgia coast, the Coast
Guard reported Monday.

The Beechcraft Bonanza was flying parallel to the coast when radar contact was
lost at 8:17 p.m. Sunday. The Coast Guard said there was no distress call.

Aboard the plane were John and William Pritchett of Windsor, N.C., and Ray and
Ken Chapman of Virginia, whose hometowns were not known, said Coast Guard
spokesman Dana Warr.

Debris from the crash was found floating 25 miles from where officials believe
the plane hit the water, Warr said.

Arkansas holiday to honor

late civil rights leader

LITTLE ROCK, Ark. - Daisy Bates, the late civil rights pioneer behind the nine
black students who broke the color barrier in city schools in 1957, will be
honored with a state holiday.

Gov. Mike Huckabee signed legislation Monday to honor Bates on the third Monday
in February. Beginning next year, residents will honor her while at the same
time observing Presidents Day.


LOAD-DATE: February 21, 2001

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: DIGEST

                    Copyright 2001 Times Publishing Company


                              105 of 302 DOCUMENTS

                         St. Petersburg Times (Florida)

             January 16, 2002, Wednesday, 0 South Pinellas Edition

Food stamps for immigrants

SECTION: EDITORIAL; EDITORIALS

LENGTH: 356 words



President Bush's proposal to restore food stamps to legal immigrants living in
poverty is a step Congress should take. Enactment of the president's plan would
correct one of the harshest provisions in the 1996 welfare law, passed by
Congress and signed by then-President Clinton, that made legal immigrants
ineligible for many forms of public assistance. Ostensibly designed to help
balance the federal budget, the move doubled as a way for politicians to give
immigrants the stick while enabling Washington to shift a greater part of the
burden for social services to local governments and the states.

About 800,000 immigrants lost food stamp benefits. Congress later restored
eligibility to children and the elderly, but Bush's plan would go farther to
undo the damage. Under the White House plan, immigrants of all ages with low
incomes would be eligible provided they lived legally in the United States at
least five years. The administration expects an additional 363,000 people would
qualify, which is a sign not only of how many are struggling but of the number
of noncitizens who want to stay and make a go of it.

It is too often forgotten how critical a role immigrants play in American
economic and social life. Though noncitizens, millions of legal residents work,
own property, employ others and pay taxes. Many perform tasks Americans refuse
to do. They play vital roles in farming, tourism and the service industries in
many states, and their low wages give Americans not only cheap food but a
competitive manufacturing base. Put aside the moral question; food stamps will
help keep an important sector of the work force here and healthy during this
economic downtown.

Denying immigrants minimum nutrition is a national and bipartisan embarrassment.
Bush deserves credit for taking this step, and if Hispanic voters reward him for
it, so much the better. That's how democracies work. Bush has, overall, a good
record on Hispanic concerns dating back to his days as governor of Texas, and if
he can move the Republican Party forward on issues related to immigration, the
country will be better off.

PG 14A


LOAD-DATE: January 16, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: EDITORIAL

                    Copyright 2002 Times Publishing Company


                              106 of 302 DOCUMENTS

                         St. Petersburg Times (Florida)

             February 07, 2002, Thursday, 0 South Pinellas Edition

Reporter kidnapping suspect identified

SOURCE: Compiled from Times Wires

SECTION: NATIONAL; NOTEBOOK; Pg. 7A

LENGTH: 384 words

DATELINE: ISLAMABAD, Pakistan



Pakistani authorities have found "definitive signs" that Wall Street Journal
reporter Daniel Pearl is alive and have identified as a key suspect in his
kidnapping an Islamic extremist with links to the al-Qaida terrorist network.

The break in the 2-week-old case came after a man detained Tuesday identified
Ahmad Omar Sayed Sheikh as the man who ordered him to send e-mail messages along
with photographs of Pearl.

Police are said to be holding Sheikh's family members in the eastern city of
Lahore as part of their effort to capture him. Sheikh, a 27-year-old British
citizen, had been active in kidnapping rings that raised funds for Muslim rebels
fighting to bring all of Kashmir under Pakistani control.

He is one of three Pakistani militants whom India released from prison to free
passengers of an Indian Airlines jet hijacked in December 1999.

ACLU has detainee names

The American Civil Liberties Union said it has obtained the names of 300 people
who are being detained by immigration officials in the government's
antiterrorism inquiry.

The Justice Department has refused to release the names of some 460 detainees
from 39 countries who it said were in the custody of the Immigration and
Naturalization Service.

The ACLU said it received the 300 names from foreign governments, to which it
had written letters offering help and asking for information.

Elsewhere Wednesday . . .

FINE-TUNING MAIL CLEANSING: Senate Majority Leader Tom Daschle says mail
checkers will use less radiation to kill possible anthrax spores in mail sent to
Capitol Hill after Senate employees complained of illness after opening letters.

U.N. THINKS BROADER ROLE: The United Nations Security Council edged closer to
broadening the peacekeeping mission in Afghanistan beyond Kabul, as top U.N.
officials appealed publicly Wednesday for greater protection for returning
refugees and aid workers elsewhere in the war-ravaged country.

NOW, TO THE JUDGE: After a two-day trial behind closed doors, an Italian judge
began weighing the fate of four Tunisian immigrants accused of being al-Qaida
operatives.

The key figure in the case is Essid Sami Ben Khemais, 33, who police say
provided important logistical support to the network of al-Qaida cells that
sprouted across Europe in the late 1990s.


LOAD-DATE: February 7, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: DIGEST

                    Copyright 2002 Times Publishing Company


                              107 of 302 DOCUMENTS

                         St. Petersburg Times (Florida)

               March 19, 2002, Tuesday, 0 South Pinellas Edition
                              Correction Appended

UAE rejects Al-Najjar's request for residency

BYLINE: MARY JACOBY

SECTION: NATIONAL; Pg. 3A

LENGTH: 717 words

DATELINE: WASHINGTON



The United Arab Emirates has rejected Mazen Al-Najjar's request for residency,
setting the stage for a renewed legal battle over the use of classified
intelligence information in immigration cases.

A stateless Palestinian linked to terrorism by the United States but never
charged with a crime, Al-Najjar has been jailed since a federal appeals court in
Atlanta affirmed a final deportation order against him Nov. 24.

"We regret that the entry of Mr. Al-Najjar to the UAE is not possible at this
time," an official of the UAE Embassy in Washington, Saeed R. Al Zaabi, wrote in
a March 11 letter to al-Najjar lawyer Joe Hohenstein.

Al Zaabi said neither the temporary work visa from the UAE that Al-Najjar held
more than 20 years ago nor the presence of family in the UAE qualifies him for
re-entry.

If Al-Najjar wants to enter the UAE, he "should find a (work-related)
sponsorship and initiate new procedures for the visa," the letter said.

The UAE's rejection of Al-Najjar's residency request appears to bolster his
long-standing claim that he cannot be deported because no country will accept
him.

At the same time, there is no indication the U.S. government plans to back away
from its equally long-standing claim that Al-Najjar is a threat to national
security.

These two views have clashed before, and now it appears they will clash again,
most likely after May 14, when the legal authority the government is currently
invoking to hold al-Najjar expires.

In 1997, the former University of South Florida teacher sparked a national
debate over civil liberties when he challenged an immigration judge's decision
to keep him jailed on the basis of classified evidence allegedly linking him to
the terrorist group Palestinian Islamic Jihad.

Al-Najjar eventually spent 3 1/2 years in jail on the basis of the classified
information. Then-Attorney General Janet Reno released him in December 2000
after a federal judge ruled his constitutional rights were violated by the
government's refusal to share the secret evidence with him.

Al-Najjar's current detention is not based on any intelligence information;
rather, it is because his appeals in his long-running deportation case have run
out.

At the moment, the government has "unfettered discretion" to keep Al-Najjar
jailed for the purpose of bringing about his deportation, U.S. District Judge
Joan Lenard ruled last month. But she noted a 2001 Supreme Court decision,
Zadvydas vs. Davis, sets a six-month time limit on detention in such cases.

On May 14, it will be six months since the appeals court in Atlanta affirmed
Al-Najjar's final deportation order. If Al-Najjar still hasn't been deported by
then, the government will either have to free him or produce evidence that he is
a security threat who must be jailed indefinitely.

And the evidence that he is a security threat is classified, meaning the courts
will likely be asked to again take up the unsettled question of whether the use
of secret information is constitutional.

Al-Najjar is being held in solitary confinement at the Coleman Federal
Correctional Complex near Bushnell, about 75 miles north of Tampa Bay.

His case is entwined with that of his brother-in-law, Sami Al-Arian, a tenured
USF professor and Palestinian whom USF president Judy Genshaft suspended for
misconduct after he appeared on a cable news network discussing alleged past
ties to terrorism.

Al-Arian was a founder of the World and Islam Studies Enterprises, an Islamic
think tank at USF that was raided by the FBI in 1995 after a former head of the
group turned up as the leader of Palestinian Islamic Jihad. Al-Najjar was also
involved with the think tank.

U.S. Attorney Mac Cauley in Tampa announced last month that his office is
investigating al-Arian.

Al-Najjar's case, meanwhile, is being watched closely by government lawyers and
civil liberties advocates because of the precedent it may set for other
terrorism-related immigration cases.

But Al-Najjar's lawyers say the UAE's rejection of his entry request is his
light at the end of the tunnel.

"I think in a couple of months he should be a free man. In my view he should be
a free man today because the government has not pointed to any reason he should
be locked up," said David Cole, one of Al-Najjar's attorneys.


LOAD-DATE: March 20, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

CORRECTION-DATE: March 20, 2002

CORRECTION:
 An appeals court issued a final deportation order against Mazen Al-Najjar on
Nov. 13. A story Tuesday gave an incorrect date.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO; Mazen Al-Najjar

                    Copyright 2002 Times Publishing Company


                              108 of 302 DOCUMENTS

                         St. Petersburg Times (Florida)

               August 28, 2000, Monday, 0 South Pinellas Edition

Despite adversity, deportee now has new life

BYLINE: SUSAN TAYLOR MARTIN

SECTION: NATIONAL; Pg. 4A

LENGTH: 939 words

DATELINE: TAMPA



A former area man sent back to Thailand is married and working, but his mother
says he was among the fortunate.

Although he was forced to leave the United States for a strange land thousands
of miles away, John Gaul III has done remarkably well in the past two years.

He is teaching English to adults and children in Bangkok, Thailand. He has his
own apartment and recently got married. He has made many new friends, who don't
know and probably wouldn't care about his teenage run-ins with the law.

"The Thai government has given him a second chance; it's a chance this country
should have given him," says his mother, Pam. "He should not have been forced to
go around the world to have the opportunity to begin again."

Gaul, 26, is among the many non-citizens with criminal records who have been
deported under the 1996 Immigration Reform Act even though their crimes were
committed before the law took effect.

Criticism of the retroactive provisions has reached such a pitch that Congress
is considering several bills, including one by Rep. Bill McCollum of Florida,
that would amend the law and spare other families what the Gauls have gone
through.

Pam Gaul is not a bitter woman. But she wonders what really motivated McCollum,
an Orlando-area Republican who is running for the U.S. Senate.

"I would like to ask him why he was willing to write a private bill (to help)
one particular young man and not write a blanket bill that would cover all of
these children," she says. "I sometimes wonder: Has his heart changed because he
sees how devastating this is to families, or has his heart changed because it's
an election year?"

Although he was a strong backer of the 1996 deportation law, McCollum introduced
a private bill last year that would have allowed the deported son of a GOP
official to return from Canada. The man was banished from the United States
after serving four years in a Florida prison on several felony charges.

McCollum could not be reached for comment for this story. However, he said at
the time that he introduced the private measure, which did not pass, because it
was the only recourse then available.

"The foundation for those private bills is something exceptional, unusual,
extraordinary and an injustice, if not corrected," McCollum said. "This case
clearly falls within the parameters of that."

The Gauls' own problems stemmed from 1979, when Pam and her then-husband adopted
a toddler from Thailand. Because his adoptive parents were American, John could
have been granted automatic U.S. citizenship if the Gauls had filed the proper
paperwork before he became an adult. But they never knew that, Pam Gaul says.

After he was denied a passport at age 17, his mother immediately applied for his
citizenship. It was rejected because she enclosed the wrong fee; a subsequent
application with the correct fee was not processed until John had turned 18. By
then he was no longer eligible for automatic citizenship.

At 19, Gaul fell in with the wrong crowd and was convicted of stealing a car and
writing worthless checks. He served 20 months in prison and planned to apply for
citizenship when he was relased in late 1996. Neither he nor his mother was
aware of the new deportation law, so they were stunned when officials of the
Immigration and Naturalization Service took him straight from prison to the
detention center in Bradenton.

The Gauls battled his deportation order for months. Despite a judge's ruling
that the INS was "totally to blame" for taking too long to process the
citizenship application, there was nothing anyone could do. The 1996 law also
took away judges' discretion to overturn contested deportation cases.

Gaul finally gave up the fight so he could get on with his life.

"I can't live like this anymore," he said.

In a way, the Gauls were fortunate. Before he was deported, Pam Gaul was able to
put together "a safety net" in Thailand that included the caseworkers who had
handled his adoption so many years before. Without the help of the agency's
staffers Gaul, who spoke no Thai, "probably would have become a street person,"
his mother says.

"I feel for other parents this happens to when they cannot put anything into
place," she says. "It's almost hopeless when you think of what could happen.
There was a young man with John in detention who was going back to South America
- he was going by himself and he didn't even know Spanish."

Gaul has since learned Thai, married a "lovely young Thai gal who just got her
college degree" and all in all is "doing beautifully," his mother says. They
talk by phone once a week and e-mail each other every other day.

But there has been a heavy emotional and financial toll. Pam Gaul, a respiratory
therapist, has spent thousands of dollars making three trips to Thailand to see
her son and help him move into an apartment.

Unless the law is changed, he cannot apply for readmission to the United States
for another 18 years. He was unable to attend his grandmother's funeral in June,
and he can't bring his new wife to visit the country where he grew up.

His mother is angry there has been so little attention - until now - to a law
that has torn apart so many families. But she tries to look at the good that has
emerged from what could have been a disastrous situation.

"It's a matter of us just constantly reinforcing the idea that you take what you
have and make the best of it and grow," she says. "Thailand is known as "the
Land of Smiles' and I like that philosophy - he's taken that up and I think it's
wonderful."

- Information from Times files was used in this report.


LOAD-DATE: August 29, 2000

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: COLOR PHOTO, DIRK SHADD; Pam Gaul holds a photo taken with her son when
she visited him in Thailand in December. He was deported after stealing a car
and writing bad checks.

                    Copyright 2000 Times Publishing Company


                              109 of 302 DOCUMENTS

                         St. Petersburg Times (Florida)

                December 19, 2000, Tuesday, 2 Late Tampa Edition

Al-Najjar's backers demand an end to FBI's 'harassment'

BYLINE: SUSAN ASCHOFF

SECTION: TAMPA & STATE; Pg. 3B

LENGTH: 690 words

DATELINE: TAMPA



The FBI is accused of harassing and intimidating the associates of the man held
more than three years on secret evidence.

The community of Muslims, civil rights activists and church members who
tirelessly fought for Mazen Al-Najjar's freedom want the government to stop
harassing him and his friends, leaders said at a news conference Monday.

Al-Najjar, accused as a terrorist but charged with no crime, returned home to
his wife and three daughters Friday after spending more than three years in
detention in Bradenton.

The Immigration and Naturalization Service says he is dangerous. But an
immigration judge found the government failed to prove it, and Attorney General
Janet Reno Friday lifted a stay on his release.

Critics charge that the detention of Al-Najjar on secret evidence, and another
dozen cases like his across the country, are examples of people being targeted
for unpopular politics.

The FBI has "intentionally intimidated and harassed many of our community
members," Al-Najjar's brother-in-law, Sami Al-Arian, said in a news conference
Monday at the Al-Qassam Mosque.

Since Al-Najjar's arrest in May 1997, agents have made unannounced visits to
people's homes and workplaces, Al-Arian said. In one instance, two FBI agents
flashed their badges in the waiting room of a physician, frightening his
patients.

At a federal court hearing for Al-Najjar in Miami in May, supporters on the
sidewalk carrying signs protesting Al-Najjar's detention were openly
photographed by an FBI agent.

"We are a community that is peaceful, a community that is active, a community
that would like to speak its mind," Al-Arian said. "The way they have treated
(us) is reprehensible."

Calls to the FBI Monday seeking comment were not returned.

In Al-Najjar's case and others, the FBI typically works with INS, then
classifies the evidence as too sensitive to release - to the accused, his
attorneys or the public.

When the immigrants gain access to secret material, either through government
review or court action, they overwhelmingly win their cases. Since 1987, 18
immigrants known to be detained on secret evidence have been freed.

Al-Najjar will fight his ordered deportation in the 11th U.S. Circuit Court of
Appeals in January.

Al-Arian, a University of South Florida professor, was one of several speakers
Monday in what became a public thank you to those who worked for Al-Najjar's
release. They include the Hillsborough Organization for Progress and Equality,
or HOPE, and the American Civil Liberties Union.

"America has been my home for the major portion of my life," the 43-year-old
Palestinian said, calling himself an "international orphan."

He was ordered deported in 1997 for overstaying a student visa, then denied bail
while he appealed after secret evidence accused him of ties to the Palestinian
Islamic Jihad. He won a rehearing when a federal judge in May found his due
process rights had been violated.

Immigration Judge R. Kevin McHugh on Dec. 6 ordered Al-Najjar released. The
government failed to prove a single allegation in its public case ended in
October, McHugh ruled, then provided a summary of its secret evidence that was
inadequate for Al-Najjar to defend himself.

Federal agents called Al-Najjar a "covert manager" for the Damascus-based group,
which claims bombings in the Middle East. Al-Najjar worked at a USF-affiliated
think tank in the early 1990s with an academic named Ramadan Abdullah Shallah.
Shallah became head of the Palestinian Islamic Jihad in October 1995, a few
months after leaving Tampa.

That connection still worries many.

Members of the Greater Tampa B'nai B'rith on Sunday unanimously approved a
"statement of concern" about the Tampa teacher.

"We think Al-Najjar has been made a martyr in this case. We feel, with all his
suffering in jail, he is still not entitled to asylum," said Norman Gross,
chairperson of the anti-hate committee of the Greater Florida Region B'nai
B'rith.

"While we understand the due process issues involved," the statement reads, "he
certainly is guilty in association with some of the world's leading terrorists."


LOAD-DATE: December 20, 2000

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DISTRIBUTION: TAMPA & STATE; METRO & STATE; CITY & STATE

GRAPHIC: BLACK AND WHITE PHOTO, STEFANIE BOYAR; BLACK AND WHITE PHOTO, (2);
Mazen Al-Najjar speaks out at a news conference Monday about efforts to ban the
use of secret evidence to imprison people. (ran Tampa & State); USF professor
Sami Al-Arian; Mazen Al-Najjar (ran City & State, Metro & State)

                    Copyright 2000 Times Publishing Company


                              110 of 302 DOCUMENTS

                         St. Petersburg Times (Florida)

               May 30, 2001, Wednesday, 0 South Pinellas Edition

Man charged in fatal immigrant smuggling

SOURCE: Compiled from Times Wires

SECTION: NATIONAL; Pg. 9A

LENGTH: 475 words

DATELINE: PHOENIX; DENVER; WASHINGTON



One of 12 survivors of a border crossing that ended in the deaths of 14 illegal
immigrants who wandered five days in the scorching Arizona desert was charged
with smuggling the group from Mexico.

Court documents say Jesus Lopez-Ramos, 20, and at least one other man, who was
not named, helped the immigrants cross the border and abandoned them after three
days.

The papers say Lopez-Ramos and another man took $ 90 from the group and promised
to return with water.

The charges against Lopez-Ramos, of Sonoita in the Mexican state of Sonora,
include bringing in illegal aliens, conspiracy to bring in illegal aliens and
harboring illegal aliens, court documents show.

If convicted, he could receive up to life in prison or the death penalty.

McVeigh's attorneys drafting request for stay

DENVER - Timothy McVeigh has instructed his lawyers to draft papers seeking a
stay of his execution on June 11, but is waiting until later this week to decide
whether to file them, his attorney, Nathan D. Chambers, told the New York Times.

The request would be based on about 4,000 documents the FBI turned over to
McVeigh's attorneys earlier this month, just days before he originally was
scheduled to be executed.

Biden to lead Foreign Relations Committee

WASHINGTON - Sen. Joseph Biden announced Tuesday he will become chairman of the
Senate Foreign Relations Committee when the Democrats assume control of the
chamber next week. His decision ends days of unease for colleagues left in limbo
about their leadership roles.

By deciding not to move back to his old post as Judiciary Committee chairman,
Biden leaves to Sen. Patrick Leahy, D-Vt., the job that could be one of the most
high-profile in the Senate. That committee will exercise jurisdiction over
President Bush's judicial nominations, including any Supreme Court vacancies.

What clinched the deal that settled the Senate's lineup of chairmen was a chance
for Biden to lead both Foreign Relations and a Judiciary subcommittee - to be
re-established by Leahy - that oversees all national drug and crime policy.

Elsewhere . . .

SHARPTON HUNGER STRIKE: The Rev. Al Sharpton began a hunger strike behind bars
Tuesday to protest Navy bombing exercises on the Puerto Rican island of Vieques
and his arrest protesting them, his lawyer said. Sharpton planned to subsist
solely on liquids until bombing operations on the island stop.

DRIVER CHARGED: The driver of a minivan was charged with vehicular homicide
after a Philadelphia crash that killed a 3-year-old girl and injured 12 other
children crammed inside. Willis Mitchell, 50, of Philadelphia, either walked or
ran away from the crash, police said.

SPELLING BEE: Mallory Miles, 14, of Laredo, Texas, misspells "coruscated" during
the first round Tuesday of the National Spelling Bee in Washington. The final
round is Thursday.


LOAD-DATE: May 30, 2001

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: DIGEST

                    Copyright 2001 Times Publishing Company


                              111 of 302 DOCUMENTS

                         St. Petersburg Times (Florida)

                June 26, 2002 Wednesday 0 South Pinellas Edition

Smuggling van crash kills six, hurts 31

SOURCE: Compiled from Times Wires

SECTION: NATIONAL; Pg. 5A

LENGTH: 624 words

DATELINE: SAN DIEGO


A van carrying 27 illegal immigrants smashed head-on into two other vehicles as
it went the wrong way on an interstate with its headlights off, apparently in an
attempt to avoid an immigration checkpoint. Six people were killed and 31
injured.

Loaded with immigrants from Mexico and Brazil, the Dodge van sideswiped two cars
and then collided with a Ford Explorer about 15 miles north of the Mexican
border Monday night, the California Highway patrol said.

The Explorer flew over a guardrail and down an embankment, killing driver Larry
S. Baca, 50, of Albuquerque, N.M. The van then crashed head-on with a Toyota
van.

The driver of the Dodge van and four passengers were killed, the Highway Patrol
said. Most people in the van did not have identification, Officer Steve Lopez
said.

Ford to study safety

of police cruisers

Ford Motor Co. agreed Tuesday to launch crash tests to determine whether it can
improve the safety of its Crown Victoria police cruisers, which have been linked
to the deaths of at least 10 police officers nationwide in the past two decades,
including an officer in Arizona this month.

The decision immediately prompted criticism from highway safety advocates who
are calling for a recall of the vehicle. At issue is the Crown Victoria's gas
tank, located behind the rear axle. In many of the fatalities, the tank ruptured
when the patrol car was rear-ended at high speed, igniting a deadly fire.

In Washington . . .

SEXUAL OFFENSES: Judges could order lifetime supervision for sex offenders under
a bill approved by the House on Tuesday.

Another measure, passed 413-8, attempts to bypass a Supreme Court decision that
struck down a ban of computer simulations of child pornography.

A third bill would allow a sentence of 15 years in prison for people who travel
to foreign lands to have sex with a minor. The House postponed a vote on that
bill until today.

FINANCE REFORM: Republicans are seeking inside information on their rivals'
fundraising and political ads as part of a lawsuit against the new campaign
finance law. The law's authors, meanwhile, are preparing to sue to change the
way regulators plan to enforce the legislation.

The Associated Press reported, quoting unnamed congressional sources, that Sen.
John McCain, R-Ariz., and other authors of the legislation were also considering
a companion call to overturn the Federal Election Commission rules by an act of
Congress and plan to announce their strategy today.

YOUNG SCHOLARS HONORED: Pinch-hitting for the boss, Vice President Dick Cheney
awarded medallions Tuesday to 141 Presidential Scholars from high schools across
the nation - one from Tampa - and saluted the students as post-Sept. 11 symbols
of American pride.

They were selected based on their exceptional test scores on the College Board
SAT or the ACT Assessment. Twenty of the students, including Benjamin I. Pila of
Tampa's Howard W. Blake High School, were selected based on their artistic
abilities.

Also . . .

FATHER BARRED FROM TRIAL: The father of slain 7-year-old Danielle van Dam has
been barred from the trial in her death amid concern he might try to harm the
defendant, David Westerfield. Judge William Mudd ordered Damon van Dam out of
the courtroom and instructed him to stay away from the courthouse in downtown
San Diego. Van Dam had asked detailed questions about how deputies transported
Westerfield to and from trial, said sheriff's Deputy C.K. McKenzie.

ROMNEY CAN RUN: Republican Mitt Romney is eligible to run for governor, a state
board ruled Tuesday, unanimously rejecting Democrats' claim that he doesn't meet
Massachusetts' residency requirement because of the time he spent in Utah
running the Salt Lake City Olympics.

LOAD-DATE: June 26, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                    Copyright 2002 Times Publishing Company


                              112 of 302 DOCUMENTS

                         St. Petersburg Times (Florida)

                July 29, 2002 Monday 4 State / Suncoast Edition

Two charged in deaths of illegal immigrants in truck

SOURCE: Compiled from Times Wires

SECTION: NATIONAL; Pg. 3A

LENGTH: 585 words

DATELINE: DALLAS; PORTLAND, Ore.; NEW YORK


Two men accused of smuggling a semitrailer truck full of illegal Mexican
immigrants across the border were charged with murder Sunday in the deaths of
two of the passengers.

Troy Dock and Jason Sprague were being held in jail on $1-million bail each.

More than 40 immigrants are believed to have been riding in the truck Saturday
but only 27 have been accounted for, said Lynn Ligon, spokesman for the
Immigration and Naturalization Service.

Fourteen passengers remained hospitalized Sunday, and three were jailed for
entering the country illegally. Three women and five children were released to
Dallas-area family members, Ligon said. They will be given the choice of
voluntary return to Mexico or appearing at an immigration hearing.

After a 12-hour journey, the immigrants poured out of the 53-foot trailer
exhausted and dehydrated at a truck stop.

The truck left the scene before authorities arrived. It was later discovered
about 40 miles north of Dallas in Anna, where two bodies were found in the
parked rig. Another man who stumbled from the back of the truck was hospitalized
in serious condition.

The temperature hit 96 degrees in Dallas on Saturday and one of the victims said
they had futilely torn a small hole in the truck's roof for air.

The truck, which was carrying medical supplies, apparently began its route
Friday in Santa Fe, N.M., before spending the night at a truck stop in El Paso.
Ligon said authorities were not sure where the immigrants crossed the border.

3 firefighters killed when engine rolls into ravine

PORTLAND, Ore. - A fire engine fighting wildfires in the Klamath National Forest
tumbled 800 feet off a steep, dirt road into a ravine Sunday, killing three
firefighters, officials said.

Two others survived the plunge and were airlifted to the Mercy Medical Center in
Redding, Calif., said Brian Harris, a the U.S. Forest Service spokesman. Their
conditions were not known.

The five firefighters were returning from a 620-acre fire near the extreme
northern California town of Happy Camp about 2 a.m. when the truck rolled off
the ravine, he said.

The about 400 firefighters working the fires retreated Sunday and let the blaze
burn unchecked, Harris said. No homes were threatened. The deaths brought to 12
the number of firefighters killed while fighting blazes in the West this summer.

Meanwhile, a wildfire near the Columbia River port town of The Dalles had grown
to 12,000 acres Sunday and burned to within inches of some rural buildings.

In California's Sierra Nevada, a blaze in and around Giant Sequoia National
Monument had grown to 66,000 acres Sunday.

Firefighters had minimized the threat to the ancient sequoia trees, said fire
information officer Jill Slater.

Drunken worker topples 100-foot crane, police say

NEW YORK - A 35-ton crane fell over near the World Trade Center site on Sunday
while the operator was drunk, police said.

Crane operator Noel Brolly suffered a minor hand injury. No one else was
injured, officers said.

Brolly was using the 100-foot crane to load debris onto a truck at the World
Financial Center, which was damaged by the collapse of the World Trade Center
towers.

The crane toppled onto the West Side Highway and blocked two of its four lanes,
but "traffic is pretty light in that area on Sunday morning," said police
Officer Jennara Everleth. Brolly, 38, was charged with reckless endangerment. In
addition to being intoxicated, he didn't secure the crane to its platform,
Everleth said.

LOAD-DATE: July 29, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                    Copyright 2002 Times Publishing Company


                              113 of 302 DOCUMENTS

                         St. Petersburg Times (Florida)

             September 11, 2002 Wednesday 0 South Pinellas Edition

INS rounds up 32 illegal aliens

BYLINE: GRAHAM BRINK

SECTION: CITY & STATE; Pg. 4B

LENGTH: 368 words

DATELINE: TAMPA


As part of a federal roundup, 32 criminal and illegal aliens living in the Tampa
Bay area are headed back to their homelands.

The operation, dubbed "BayOps," targeted dangerous felons who had served prison
time or violated U.S. immigration laws.

Some non-American citizens convicted of felonies are immediately deported upon
completing their prison sentences. But others are released back into the
community because there are not enough facilities to hold them while they await
deportation.

For Operation BayOps, Immigration and Naturalization Service agents identified a
group of suspects who had a history of violence or felony convictions and had
exhausted their legal avenues to stay in the country. Some of the suspects came
to the agents' attention after they applied for government benefits, said John
Mata, INS assistant district director for detention and removal in Florida.

The suspects - 26 men and six women - had committed crimes ranging from domestic
violence and drug trafficking to robbery and committing a lewd act on a child
under 16 years old. None was accused of terrorist activities.

Operation BayOps was not a reaction to last year's terrorist attacks, Mata said.
Roundups have been going on for years. About 90 percent of the 100,000 or so
deportation cases the INS completed nationwide in 2000 involved criminals,
according to INS statistics.

But instead of working on the problem on an ad hoc basis, the agency in Florida
has pooled its resources to allow a group of agents to concentrate on specific
areas, Mata said.

Twenty-four of the aliens lived in Hillsborough County, and two lived in
Pinellas. The others were from Sarasota, Manatee, Polk and Hardee counties.

The suspects came from 19 countries. Six were from Honduras, four from Guatemala
and three from the Dominican Republic. Several have already been sent back to
their countries. The rest remain in custody awaiting deportation.

Mata could not say how many criminal aliens live in the Tampa Bay area. INS,
with help from local and state law enforcement, will be carrying out similar
operations in other Florida cities, he said.

- Graham Brink can be reached at (813) 226-3365 or brink@sptimes.com.

LOAD-DATE: September 12, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DISTRIBUTION: CITY & STATE; METRO & STATE; TAMPA & STATE

                    Copyright 2002 Times Publishing Company


                              114 of 302 DOCUMENTS

                         St. Petersburg Times (Florida)

               February 1, 2003 Saturday 0 South Pinellas Edition

Illegal stays in U.S. soar

SOURCE: Compiled from Times Wires

SECTION: NATIONAL; Pg. 7A

LENGTH: 556 words

DATELINE: WASHINGTON; CAPE CANAVERAL


The number of immigrants living illegally in the United States jumped by
1-million in under four years, the government reported Friday.

In the latest count, based on the 2000 census and INS statistics, the
Immigration and Naturalization Service reported that roughly 7-million
immigrants, mostly Mexicans, were living illegally in the United States as of
January 2000.

Mexicans made up 69 percent, or 4.8-million, of the illegal immigrant population
in 2000, compared with 58 percent in 1990, the INS said.

The new estimates are based on the foreign-born population counted in the 2000
census, combined with INS statistics on immigrants admitted to the country,
deportations and numbers of nonimmigrant residents admitted, such as temporary
workers.

Aside from Mexico, other countries that each were the source of more than
100,000 citizens illegally in the United States include El Salvador, Guatemala,
Colombia, Honduras, China and Ecuador.

The INS said California had the most illegal immigrants, about 2.2-million or 32
percent of the national total.

Florida experienced a less dramatic increase to 337,000 illegal residents, up
from 239,000 in 1990.

The INS analysis also showed that about a third of the illegal immigrant
population came from countries whose residents traditionally enter with visas
and overstay.

Shuttle "Columbia' to land today, research in tow

CAPE CANAVERAL - Space shuttle Columbia's U.S.-Israeli crew wrapped up more than
two weeks of scientific research in orbit Friday and aimed for a homecoming
under heavy security.

Ilan Ramon, the first Israeli in space, and his six U.S. crewmates successfully
completed all of their more than 80 experiments.

The astronauts looked at such things as ant, bee and spider behavior in
weightlessness, and changes in flames and flower scents in orbit. They also took
measurements of atmospheric dust and collected blood and urine samples.

Two soldiers hurt by smallpox vaccine

WASHINGTON - One soldier inoculated against smallpox has suffered a potentially
serious skin reaction to the vaccine, and officials are investigating whether a
second ill soldier also is reacting to the shot, the Pentagon said Friday.

It was the first report of any serious reaction in Americans receiving the
vaccinations, which began in December for the military and are just now getting
under way for civilians.

Both men now are in good condition, the Pentagon said.

There has been considerable discussion about the vaccine's risks, which are rare
but serious. Experts believe that out of every million people being vaccinated
for the first time, between 14 and 52 will face serious, life-threatening
reactions, and one or two will die. People who come into close contact with
vaccines also can be injured.

Routine smallpox vaccinations ended in this country in 1972 as the disease was
being eradicated from Earth. The last U.S. case was in 1949. But officials fear
smallpox could return in an act of bioterrorism, and the military believes its
forces, on the cusp of war with Iraq, could face a biological attack.

Vaccinations are voluntary for civilians, but mandatory in the military. So far,
most of the reactions have been minor, the Pentagon said. Three percent of the
people being vaccinated had to take sick leave, with an average absence of 1.5
days.

LOAD-DATE: February 1, 2003

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: DIGEST

                    Copyright 2003 Times Publishing Company


                              115 of 302 DOCUMENTS

                         St. Petersburg Times (Florida)

                  May 18, 2003 Sunday 0 South Pinellas Edition

Texas smugglers may be organized

SOURCE: Compiled from Times Wires

SECTION: NATIONAL; Pg. 9A

LENGTH: 490 words

DATELINE: HOUSTON; GREENVILLE, S.C.; MYRTLE BEACH, S.C.; CALIPATRIA, Calif.


Investigators believe a smuggling operation in which 19 illegal immigrants died
after being packed into a sweltering trailer with dozens of other people is part
of a larger organization, a federal prosecutor said.

Only one person has been arrested, a truck driver from Schenectady, N.Y.

Authorities believe the "transportation cell" at the heart of the smuggling case
is part of a conspiracy to bring illegal immigrants across the border with
promises of jobs, said U.S. Attorney Michael Shelby of Houston.

"We are viewing this as an organized criminal act and we are going to prosecute
the entire organization."

Thousands march for MLK recognition

GREENVILLE, S.C. - Thousands marched in Greenville on Saturday to protest the
county's lack of a Martin Luther King holiday and re-energize the civil rights
movement in the South, organizers said.

The Rev. Jesse Jackson and NAACP President Kweisi Mfume led the 2-mile,
1960s-style march to push the Greenville County Council to establish a paid day
off for employees on King Day. It is one of only three South Carolina counties
that does not close its offices on the holiday.

There were varying estimates of the number of people attending the march. The
National Association for the Advancement of Colored People estimated about
3,000, while some police officials said it may have been much more.

Jackson, a Greenville native, said Saturday's march was the beginning of a plan
to reinvigorate the civil rights movement in the South. The rally fell on the
49th anniversary of the U.S. Supreme Court's Brown vs. Board of Education
decision that made segregation in public schools illegal.

"For so long, Greenville has been passive in the face of gross injustice and the
Confederate ideology, but now people are coming alive," he said. "We're
launching a national movement from Greenville today." He said that movement will
include voter registration drives and pushes for reform in prisons and public
education.

5 die at annual motorcycle rally

MYRTLE BEACH, S.C. - Five motorcycle riders have been killed in traffic
accidents during this year's Harley-Davidson rally, the most in seven years at
the annual event.

The annual Carolina Harley-Davidson Dealers Association Myrtle Beach Rally wraps
up today.

Law enforcement officials say there isn't a common thread among the wrecks this
year.

"It's just the crowd," said Highway Patrol Trooper 1st Class Ashley Mew. "And
most of the ones who have been fatally injured were not wearing helmets."

South Carolina does not require bikers 21 or older to wear helmets.

Minor earthquake rattles California

CALIPATRIA, Calif. - A small earthquake rocked southern California early
Saturday. There were no reports of damage or injuries.

The magnitude-3.0 temblor was centered about six miles northwest of Calipatria,
according to data from the U.S. Geological Survey. It was followed minutes later
by a 2.1 quake.

LOAD-DATE: May 18, 2003

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

SERIES: IN BRIEF

TYPE: DIGEST

                    Copyright 2003 Times Publishing Company


                              116 of 302 DOCUMENTS

                         St. Petersburg Times (Florida)

               September 19, 2003 Friday 0 South Pinellas Edition

Treasury says banks may accept immigrants' IDs

SOURCE: Compiled from Times Wires

SECTION: NATIONAL; Pg. 5A

LENGTH: 933 words

DATELINE: WASHINGTON; NEW HAVEN, Conn.; ORLANDO


Banks can continue to accept identification cards issued by Mexican consulates
from customers wishing to open new accounts, the Treasury Department said
Thursday in a move seen as a victory for undocumented immigrants.

"This allows immigrants the ability to live normally, to open bank accounts and
conduct business," said Kevin Appleby, director of the migration office of the
U.S. Conference of Catholic Bishops. "We have a large population of undocumented
immigrants who are working and contributing to their communities, and businesses
and local governments understand this."

Mexican consulates have issued about 1.5-million of the cards - known as
"matriculas" in Spanish - to their citizens living in this country.

The cards carry the bearer's address in the United States, and many local
governments and banks accept them as valid identification.

Critics say the cards are prone to fraud and amount to a back-door amnesty for
illegal immigrants.

A spokesman for House Judiciary Committee Chairman F. James Sensenbrenner Jr.,
R-Wis., said the Treasury decision will not deter lawmakers from seeking curbs
on the widening acceptance of the cards.

Yale workers reach tentative agreement

NEW HAVEN, Conn. - Yale University and two labor unions reached a tentative
agreement Thursday to end a three-week strike that has been marked by large
demonstrations involving high-profile national union leaders.

Negotiators were to meet with the unions today to discuss the proposed
eight-year contract, and a vote would follow. If approved, workers would be back
on the job Monday.

Both sides claimed victory and promised to work on a way to avoid strikes in the
future.

A key issue was the unions' agreeing to the eight-year contract, which the
university said was needed to give both sides enough time to work on a better
process for negotiating labor pacts.

Two union locals that represent about 4,000 workers went on strike Aug. 27 in a
dispute over wages, benefits and pensions.

The new contract would increase pensions substantially for about 1,000 workers
who are expected to retire within the next six years. Signing bonuses are also
part of the deal.

The strike did little to disrupt the start of Yale's school year, although it
has resulted in several vocal protests. The Rev. Jesse Jackson, AFL-CIO
President John Sweeney and others were arrested during protests in which
striking workers and their supporters blocked intersections.

Nelson says he'll block Army secretary

ORLANDO - U.S. Sen. Bill Nelson said Thursday that he'll block the appointment
of a new Secretary of the Army unless the military redresses a new policy that
lengthens deployments for Florida National Guardsmen and reservists.

The first-term Democrat said the treatment of Florida's citizen-soldiers was
inequitable when compared to those from other states who have already returned
from Iraq or were never activated.

Under the Army's new policy, announced last week, guardsmen and reservists will
be kept in Iraq a full 12 months from when their boots hit the ground there, not
from when units were activated.

That means some Floridians may not return until next May - after being away from
home 1 1/2 years.

Nominated as Army secretary is current Air Force Secretary James Roche. He must
go through the Senate Committee on Armed Services, of which Nelson is a member.

Also . . .

SLAIN STUDENT'S FAMILY SUES UNIVERSITY: The family of a Western Kentucky
University freshman who was beaten, stabbed, raped and burned in her dormitory
room filed a wrongful-death lawsuit against the school Thursday, alleging it
failed to enforce its security policies. Katie Autry, 18, died three days after
the May attack. Two men from Scottsville, Ky., near the school in Bowling Green,
have been charged with murder and other charges.   The lawsuit also names as
defendants the WKU Student Life Foundation, which owns the residence halls, the
Pi Kappa Alpha fraternity, and five people who helped run the hall.

POLICE SAY GUNSHOT LED TO HOSTAGE-HOLDER'S DEATH: A single shot fired at random
by a suicidal gunman holding a classroom of college students hostage led police
to storm in and kill him, an investigator said Thursday. A SWAT team killed
Harold Kilpatrick Jr., 26, on Wednesday night after a nine-hour standoff at
Dyersburg State Community College in western Tennessee, about 75 miles north of
Memphis. His family said he was facing charges of assault and kidnapping in
Memphis involving a former girlfriend.

NO CRIMINAL CHARGES IN MINE FLOOD THAT TRAPPED NINE: A grand jury decided
against criminal charges in the mine accident that trapped nine men for three
days last year, instead urging changes in state laws and regulations. An
investigating grand jury found inadequate evidence to file criminal charges in
the Quecreek Mine accident, which was blamed on poor maps, state Attorney
General Mike Fisher and U.S. Attorney Mary Beth Buchanan said Thursday.

TEXAS SENATE DROPS FINES AGAINST DEMOCRATS: The Texas Senate dropped thousands
of dollars in fines and restored parking and cell-phone privileges Thursday for
Democrats who were punished for fleeing the state to block a Republican-led
redistricting plan. The Democrats instead will be placed on a probation of sorts
until the start of the next session in January 2005. They were told if they
leave again to break a quorum, they would have to pay $57,000 apiece in fines.
If any of the senators are absent without excuse for more than 72 hours when
attendance is required, the fines and sanctions would be reinstated.

LOAD-DATE: September 19, 2003

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

SERIES: IN BRIEF

TYPE: DIGEST

                    Copyright 2003 Times Publishing Company


                              117 of 302 DOCUMENTS

                         St. Petersburg Times (Florida)

                             October 5, 2003 Sunday

A crass, desperate Davis

BYLINE: ROBYN E. BLUMNER

SECTION: PERSPECTIVE; Pg. 7D

LENGTH: 817 words


In a desperate effort to stave off recall, California Gov. Gray Davis signed a
law granting several million illegal immigrants in the state access to a
driver's license. He had vetoed the measure twice before, when his political
cojones weren't so directly on the line, but now he can't afford to alienate the
Latino voter.

This crass calculation may be applauded by immigrant-rights groups such as the
National Council of La Raza and all those participating in the recent Immigrant
Workers Freedom Ride who seek to undo distinctions between people who came here
legally and those who flouted the rules. But the move is a betrayal of
Californians - even those of Hispanic descent - who already host more illegal
immigrants every year than they can possibly absorb.

I am a firm believer in government policies that encourage legal immigration.
Newly inducted Americans are the lifeblood of this society and economy. But
people who ignore our formal immigration process and jump the line should not be
assisted further by being given a credential that can be used to do much more
than drive a car. A driver's license is a de facto universal identification
card. It eases the path to enrolling in government benefits, obtaining a bank
account, renting an apartment or qualifying for credit. Why are we making the
magnet stronger than it already is?

American society shouldn't be something you can cheat your way into. We are a
nation based on laws. Yet by granting driver's licenses to undocumented
immigrants, as California and 13 other states have done, or providing them
college tuition at in-state resident rates, as Congress is considering doing, or
by offering amnesty for those who successfully squatted here for years, a
longstanding call which is gaining new momentum, we are giving succor to
scofflaws. Meanwhile, the future citizens we want - those who respect our
borders and rules - are stuck on years-long waiting lists.

No one knows for certain how many undocumented aliens live in the United States.
The 2000 census estimates 8.7-million but others believe this is a severe
undercount. What we do know is why the problem has gotten so out of hand: It
serves nearly every stakeholder's interest.

The La Raza-left gets to expand its constituency while powerful economic sectors
- such as agriculture, the hotel and restaurant industry, and slaughterhouses -
gain a ready supply of cheap labor. And let us not forget the better off
families who hire illegal immigrants to care for their children, homes and
lawns.

This influx also benefits Mexico, which rakes in $10-billion in annual
remittances from workers sending money home, according to Victor Davis Hanson, a
classics professor at California State University at Fresno. Hanson, who wrote
Mexifornia: A State of Becoming, explained on C-SPAN's Booknotes recently that
Mexico is also able to rid itself of "hundreds of thousands of potential
dissidents who might otherwise march on Mexico City for redress of grievances"
while acquiring "an expatriate community that romanticizes Mexico the longer and
further it's away from it."

Maybe that is why Mexico refuses to allow the reintroduction of the interior
repatriation program that existed in the 1990s, where illegal migrants were sent
back to their hometowns. Being left just across the border makes it easier to
try again.

Hanson's thesis is that we are damaging the character of this nation and the
prospects for Latino success by allowing a flood of illegal immigration beyond
our ability to assimilate. He sees the "therapeutic left" having formed an
unholy alliance with the corporate conservative right. A constant supply of
Latino illegal immigrants keeps wages low, serving industrial interests, and
this is exacerbated by the left's suggestion that it is nativist or even racist
to demand that newcomers obtain English language skills and become part of the
melting pot. Latino immigrants who don't acculturate miss out on the historical
route to success.

Those who suffer most from the presence of so many illegal immigrants are
low-skilled Americans and recent legal immigrants, who can't gain an economic
foothold because wages are driven so far down. It is absurd to suggest that
citizens won't do the "dirty" jobs taken by illegal immigrants. Government
employees who maintain sewers or pick up trash have jobs about as unglamorous as
they come. Still, citizens fill them because they pay a living wage and offer
benefits. But Americans are not going to play a race-to-the-bottom game with the
exploited workforce of undocumented aliens.

Illegal workers lead oppressive, vulnerable lives. Policies encouraging them to
come here are destructive, not compassionate, and fuel a cycle of misery that
renews itself with every furtive crossing. In the big picture, Gov. Davis'
action is no helping hand, it is a license for social unrest and despair.

LOAD-DATE: October 6, 2003

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: PHOTO, ASSOCIATED PRESS; California Gov. Gray Davis greets supporters
at a rally last week in Los Angeles.

TYPE: COLUMN

                    Copyright 2003 Times Publishing Company


                              118 of 302 DOCUMENTS

                         St. Petersburg Times (Florida)

               October 24, 2003 Friday 4 State / Suncoast Edition

Immigration agents arrest hundreds in Wal-Mart sweep

SOURCE: Compiled from Times Wires

SECTION: BUSINESS; Pg. 1E

LENGTH: 876 words


Federal agents raided 61 Wal-Mart stores across the nation Thursday and said
they arrested more than 250 illegal immigrants who worked as janitors for
outside contractors used by Wal-Mart, the world's largest retailer.

As part of the 21-state raid, which did not include Florida, federal agents also
searched the office of an executive at Wal-Mart's Arkansas headquarters and
removed papers, company and government officials said. The raid was the largest
immigration crackdown in years.

One federal official said that a grand jury was investigating the matter and
that the government believed that Wal-Mart executives knew about the widespread
use of illegal immigrants. This official said the government had used wiretaps
in the investigation.

Wal-Mart executives were quick to acknowledge the raids and said that the
arrested workers were employed by contractors and that Wal-Mart expected those
contractors to employ only legal workers.

Tom Williams, a Wal-Mart spokesman, said the raid and the allegations that the
company was aware of using illegal immigrants came as a total surprise.

"We've seen no evidence from the Immigration Service that anyone in Wal-Mart was
involved in any scheme involving illegal workers," he said.

Williams said he thought that the Wal-Mart manager whose office was raided
worked in Wal-Mart's building services division.

The workers who were arrested were finishing the night shift at stores, said
Garrison Courtney, a spokesman for the division of Immigration and Customs
Enforcement. Most are from Eastern Europe or Latin America.

Courtney said federal officials had originally sought to arrest 300 of the
janitorial workers when the raids began around 4 a.m. Thursday, but were able to
arrest slightly more than 250. The employees now face deportation.

Immigration experts said the arrests of so many illegal immigrants at Wal-Marts
across the nation demonstrated that these workers have come to play a
significant role in the American economy. They often take the low end,
low-paying jobs shunned by not just American workers, but also legal immigrants.

In Washington, Rick Swartz, a veteran immigration activist, said the raids
should arouse political suspicions. "Enforcement goes on every day, but these
were in several cities and obviously designed to make headlines," Swartz said.

Immigration attorney Fernando Dubove in Dallas said immigration authorities
would get a publicity boost at a time when the U.S. Department of Homeland
Security is being criticized.

"They get a lot of bang for their buck in this one," Dubove said.

Thursday's arrests came after a five-year period that saw federal immigration
authorities greatly scale back the number of raids on businesses. Particularly
since the Sept. 11 attacks in New York and Washington, federal officials have
focused their immigration arrests on facilities, like airports, that might be
terrorist targets.

"This is the biggest raid in a few years," Courtney said. "This is the result of
almost a four-year investigation. We're a law enforcement agency, and we're
going to enforce the laws."

Federal law enforcement officials said the investigation grew out of earlier
raids in 1998 and 2000 when about 100 illegal immigrants were arrested working
at Wal-Mart stores in New York, Pennsylvania, Ohio and Missouri. These officials
said that after those arrests, 13 Wal-Mart cleaning contractors pleaded guilty
to knowingly employing illegal immigrants. Mona Williams, Wal-Mart's vice
president for communications, said, "These federal officials are referring to
third party suppliers that we entrusted to hire legal workers. For them to say
that it strains credibility that we're surprised about what happened today,
those other actions happened years ago."

Courtney said that if federal officials found substantial evidence that the
cleaning contractors or Wal-Mart executives knowingly employed illegal
immigrants, they could face criminal charges, including fines up to $10,000 per
illegal worker. He said he did not know the name of Wal-Mart's cleaning
contractors or of the Wal-Mart executive whose office was searched.

The Service Employees International Union, which represents thousands of
immigrant janitors, was trying Thursday to find out the names of the independent
contractors. Among SEIU's 1.6-million members are 210,000 building service
workers, including janitors and maintenance workers, and in the past the union
has litigated against retail food chains and independent contractors.

Wal-Mart has a market capitalization of $256-billion - the same size or larger
than the gross domestic product of many developed countries, including Austria.
The ever-expanding Wal-Mart recently said it must hire 800,000 workers over the
next five years.

Arrests were made in Alabama, Arkansas, Arizona, Connecticut, Delaware,
Kentucky, Massachusetts, Maryland, Michigan, North Carolina, New Hampshire, New
Jersey, New York, Ohio, Oklahoma, Pennsylvania, South Carolina, Tennessee,
Texas, Virginia and West Virginia. California, the top destination for illegal
immigrants, also was absent from the list.

- Information from the New York Times, the Dallas Morning News and the
Associated Press was used in this report.

LOAD-DATE: October 24, 2003

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                    Copyright 2003 Times Publishing Company


                              119 of 302 DOCUMENTS

                         St. Petersburg Times (Florida)

                 April 9, 2004 Friday 0 South Pinellas Edition

Governor stands by license proposal

BYLINE: JENNIFER LIBERTO

SECTION: CITY & STATE; Pg. 5B

LENGTH: 463 words

DATELINE: TALLAHASSEE


Gov. Jeb Bush on Thursday acknowledged the unpopularity of legislation he
supports to allow illegal immigrants and foreign nationals to legally get
Florida driver's licenses.

But he said he's convinced it's the right thing to do.

"I've got my view and I'm going to stick with it, and take the heat along with
it," Bush said Thursday.

Florida sheriffs, including some who serve on the state's Domestic Security Task
Force, oppose the bill, which would require illegal immigrants to undergo
fingerprinting and criminal background checks to get a driver's license.

Republican California Gov. Arnold Schwarzenegger recently repealed a law
allowing illegal immigrants to obtain driver's liences, but Bush said the
Florida proposal has adequate safeguards to keep licenses out of the hands of
terrorists.

Many of the Sept. 11, 2001,  hijackers legally got Florida licenses and used
them to rent cars and hotel rooms and move around the state without suspicion.

Florida now strictly enforces a 1999 law requiring proof of citizenship or
"legal presence" in the United States as a condition of getting or renewing a
driver's license. Thousands of illegal immigrants are driving unlawfully,
usually without insurance.

Marion County Sheriff Ed Dean, a member of the security task force, called the
legislation "incomprehensible."

But Bush said he talked to Collier County Sheriff Don Hunter, another task force
member, and expects the sheriffs to ask the Legislature to study the issue
further and not pass the bill this year, a longstanding maneuver to delay
controversial legislation.

"I appreciate the suggestion to study this further," Bush said. "I do feel that
part of my job is to be politically incorrect once in a while, to challenge your
thinking a little bit, to shift the dynamics of how conventional wisdom is set."

The Florida plan would require immigrants to prove they own or lease a car and
swear they are not convicted felons. A license would be valid for two years,
legal only in Florida. It would be a different color from other licenses.

Bush said Thursday he supports the bill (SB 1360) because illegal immigrants and
foreign nationals are in a "precarious position" by the current law.

On Monday, Bush said: "A policy that ignores them is a policy of denial."
Illegal immigrants are a fact of life in Florida, he said, but deporting them is
the federal government's responsibility. They come to the United States to work
but struggle without a driver's license.

Illegal immigrants cannot obtain insurance without a valid license, putting
other motorists at risk.

Still, Bush recognizes his view may not be popular.

"If you did a poll on this - it would be a waste of money, maybe - but if you
did a poll, it would be 5-to-1 against," he said.

LOAD-DATE: April 9, 2004

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DISTRIBUTION: CITY & STATE; METRO & STATE; TAMPA & STATE

GRAPHIC: PHOTO; Jeb Bush

                    Copyright 2004 Times Publishing Company


                              120 of 302 DOCUMENTS

                         St. Petersburg Times (Florida)

                April 13, 2004 Tuesday 0 South Pinellas Edition

License plan for illegals totters

BYLINE: STEVE BOUSQUET

SECTION: NATIONAL; Pg. 1A

LENGTH: 796 words

DATELINE: TALLAHASSEE


A plan backed by Gov. Jeb Bush to allow illegal immigrants to get drivers'
licenses in Florida appears dead in the Legislature, as lawmakers face growing
opposition from sheriffs and constituents.

In an ominous sign Monday, Sen. Rudy Garcia, the sponsor of legislation giving
licenses to noncitizens, delayed a vote in the Senate Transportation Committee
after losing the support of Republicans on the panel.

"It's a very difficult issue to move forward," said Garcia, R-Hialeah.

With Bush's backing, Garcia hoped to grant two-year licenses to foreign
nationals and illegal immigrants who are fingerprinted, pass background checks
and have their documents verified by the consulates of their native countries.

Immigrants also would have to prove they owned or leased a car.

Hundreds of thousands of illegal immigrants travel Florida's roads daily without
licenses or auto insurance. Bush has criticized "a policy of denial" in Florida
that treats working, taxpaying noncitizens as "lepers."

The issue poses a delicate predicament for the Republican Party. The GOP is
trying to appeal to a broader base of Hispanics beyond its most loyal
Cuban-American bloc, to include Puerto Ricans, Mexicans and others who are not
as solidly Republican. At the same time, many conservative voters oppose
anything that would make it easier for illegal immigrants to assimilate into
society.

A Bush spokesman said it is "absolutely not true" that the governor supports the
change for political reasons.

"This is a policy that balances public safety with the everyday need to drive,"
said spokesman Jacob DiPietre.

But Bush soon realized that the plan is controversial.

What happened the governor is similar to the experience of his brother,
President Bush, whose proposal to issue three-year renewable guest-worker visas
for undocumented immigrants hit a wall of opposition in Congress.

Florida sheriffs blitzed senators with faxes, saying the driver's license idea
was hastily conceived and a threat to domestic security.

Collier County Sheriff Don Hunter said it was unreliable to allow illegal
immigrants to acquire Florida drivers' licenses based on ID cards from their
countries of origin.

He said documents such as Mexico's Matricula Consular cards are "suspect," and
would create the "illusion of legitimacy."

He sent senators a critical FBI intelligence review of Mexico's card issuance
system.

"This illusion of legitimacy would allow terrorists to embed themselves in
mainstream America with all of the civil liberties afforded to legitimate
residents, visitors and citizens," Hunter wrote in a position paper circulated
to senators on Monday.

David Skovholt of the Florida Immigration Advocacy Center in Miami described
Hunter as "notoriously anti-immigrant."

"The problem of people driving without licenses is a huge problem in Florida,"
Skovholt said. "This bill would allow more people to become licensed drivers who
are contributing, taxpaying members of our state."

The center released a list of police chiefs and sheriffs from dozens of cities
and counties who support granting drivers' licenses to undocumented immigrants.
The list includes officials from police agencies in Atlanta, Memphis,
Minneapolis, New Haven, Los Angeles and Sacramento.

Garcia said he wants to proceed slowly, and he urged lawmakers and the media to
avoid calling the non-citizens "illegal aliens." But opposition is growing.

Senators said the calls and e-mails to their offices showed the issue has struck
an emotional chord.

"This bill has really pushed a button with people in this state," said Sen.
Evelyn Lynn, R-Ormond Beach. "What I'm hearing from everyone is, how can you
condone the fact that they're here illegally by giving them a license?"

Another critic, Sen. JD Alexander, R-Lake Wales, said: "My district does not
want to create incentives for people to break our laws."

A third Republican on the transportation committee, Sen. Dan Webster, R-Winter
Garden, said he also is opposed.

"If someone has attached to their status "illegal,' it means they've done
something wrong," Webster said. Licensing those drivers "sends a message that
it's okay to not play by the rules," he said.

Gov. Bush didn't mention the driver's license proposal as he rallied Hispanics
in Orlando to support his brother's re-election as president.

Flanked by a Mariachi band and "Viva Bush" banners, the governor focused on his
brother's support of traditional values, appointing Hispanics to key
administration positions, cutting taxes and protecting the nation. Bush also
criticized Democratic candidate John Kerry for being out of touch with working
families.

- Times staff writers Joni James and Adam C. Smith and researcher Caryn Baird
contributed to this report.

LOAD-DATE: April 13, 2004

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: PHOTO; Lightning players celebrate a playoff win against the Islanders

                    Copyright 2004 Times Publishing Company


                              121 of 302 DOCUMENTS

                         St. Petersburg Times (Florida)

                             April 25, 2004 Sunday

Immigrant students deserve a chance at college

BYLINE: BILL MAXWELL

SECTION: PERSPECTIVE; Pg. 5P

LENGTH: 775 words


I will not use these students' names because of the politics involved in their
plight. I simply will refer to them as Student A and Student B. Both are Latino,
both live in Hillsborough County and both lack resident immigrant status. They
are graduating from high school this term.

Detractors of their causes often refer to them, among other names, as "illegal
immigrants" and "illegal aliens."

Student A is young man whose parents brought him to the United States from
Mexico three years ago. He attended English-language classes for one semester,
but he soon qualified for honors classes, including advanced placement English.

Student B is a young woman whose parents brought her to the United States from
Mexico five years ago. She completed advanced placement courses in English,
English literature, biology, chemistry, physics, American history, French and
European history. She will graduate No. 4 out of more than 450 students in her
class.

Both students desperately want to attend college. But neither may get the
opportunity if Florida's conservative lawmakers do not soften their contemptible
attitude toward immigrant students and do not implement a law that grants these
graduating seniors the same low instate tuition rates their peers with resident
status enjoy - discounts amounting to a fourth of full tuition at many colleges.

Last year, the bill that would have given undocumented immigrant students
instate tuition discounts died before reaching the House floor, thanks mainly to
Speaker Johnnie Byrd, even though Gov. Jeb Bush supported the bill and even
though it had passed the Florida Senate.

On Friday, House Bill 119, which gives immigrant students instate discounts,
came closer to reaching the House floor with approval in the Appropriations
Committee. The fate of the bill again lies with Byrd because he has the power to
bring it to the floor for a vote.

Byrd's spokesman, Tom Denham, said his boss - whose agricultural district
depends on and quietly employs a large number of undocumented workers - opposes
the bill and has philosophical difficulty giving benefits to people who are in
the country illegally.

But Rep. Juan Carlos Zapata, R-Miami, the bill's sponsor, offered the South
Florida Sun-Sentinel this common-sense observation: "It's a fairness issue,
something that takes Florida demographic realities into account. We have a large
undocumented immigrant population. For us to hold back kids that have done
nothing wrong, and have gone through the system and performed, and then put this
roadblock in their path doesn't make sense. And it doesn't seem like good public
policy to me."

To encourage fellow Republicans to permit a committee vote, according to the
Sun-Sentinel, Zapata dropped proposals to grant undocumented students access to
state financial aid and scholarships.

Once again, as it often is when immigrant laborers and their children are
involved, the Sunshine State is in the darkness. All of the other states with
working immigrant populations, including California, Illinois, Oklahoma, New
York, Texas, Utah and Washington, have passed similar legislation benefiting
such residents.

Donna Perrino, executive director of Engaging Latino Communities for Education
at the University of South Florida, a community-focused program sponsored by the
W.K. Kellogg Foundation to increase the number of Latinos attending college,
said that the overwhelming majority of undocumented immigrant students are
innocent victims.

These young people did not have a say in coming to America, and they should not
be held fully responsible for an immigration status they inherited from their
parents. They should not be precluded from the opportunities they deserve from
their talents and hard work. Common sense suggests that when immigrant children
believe that college is a financially realistic possibility, they will not drop
out of school and will become viable members of society.

"Allowing immigrant students to pay instate tuition will not decrease
opportunities for other students," states a position paper by the Florida
Immigrant Coalition. "The most qualified students will still be admitted. This
bill would give immigrant students the same opportunity as their classmates - no
more and no less."

What Byrd decides will greatly influence the fates of Student A and Student B
and others to follow. My hope is that he remembers that these students have been
absorbed into the fabric of U.S. society. They had nothing to do with their
parents' decisions.

They will become taxpayers and may become leaders, like so many other immigrants
before them, if they are treated fairly.

LOAD-DATE: April 25, 2004

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: COLUMN

                    Copyright 2004 Times Publishing Company


                              122 of 302 DOCUMENTS

                         St. Petersburg Times (Florida)

                 July 1, 2004 Thursday 0 South Pinellas Edition

Reservations needed when Statue of Liberty reopens

SOURCE: Compiled from Wire Reports

SECTION: NATIONAL; Pg. 3A

LENGTH: 603 words

DATELINE: WASHINGTON; PITTSBURGH; NEW YORK; HUNTSVILLE, Texas


Visitors to the Statue of Liberty, closed to the public after the Sept. 11
attacks because of security concerns, will not be allowed up the cramped
circular metal staircase into the crown when the 151-foot symbol in New York
Harbor reopens on Aug. 3.

For the first time, visitors will need reservations for tours at specific times,
in an effort to eliminate the hours-long lines that marked most trips to see the
118-year-old statue. Visitors without a reservation can take tours around the
island and go the gift shop.

The public will be able to view the statue's interior through a glass ceiling at
roughly the level of Lady Liberty's feet, the government said Wednesday.

Liberty Island reopened three months after the 2001 attacks, but the statue has
remained off limits while officials tried to create a more secure system for the
public.

Kerry opposes licenses

for illegal immigrants

PITTSBURGH - Democrat John Kerry said he opposes state laws that give driver's
licenses to illegal immigrants, a position that puts him at odds with the
Hispanic activists he is courting in the presidential race.

Immigrant advocates have been pushing for the laws, saying they help
undocumented workers get around safely. Licensed drivers know the rules of the
road and can buy insurance, making streets safer for everyone, they say.

"I think that driver's licenses are part of the legality of being here and if
you've been here a period of time we may work something out as part of that
immigration process, but I wouldn't give somebody who is automatically one year
in here illegally all the rights and privileges of being here legally," Kerry
told the Spanish-language network Telemundo.

Steinberg, figure in child abuse case, released

NEW YORK - Joel Steinberg got out of prison and returned to a hostile city
Wednesday after nearly 17 years behind bars for beating to death his 6-year-old
adopted daughter in one of the most haunting child-abuse cases in New York
history.

The former lawyer, 63, was released from a prison in Pine City, in central New
York, after serving two-thirds of the maximum 25-year sentence for manslaughter.
He has continued to deny responsibility for the girl's death.

Lisa Steinberg died in November 1987, three days after a vicious beating in the
Greenwich Village apartment where she lived with Steinberg and his former lover,
Hedda Nussbaum. The girl was found naked, bruised and not breathing.

Inmate in "Thin Blue Line' case executed in Texas

HUNTSVILLE, Texas - A man whose false testimony sent an innocent man to death
row before the 1988 documentary The Thin Blue Line cast doubt on the evidence
was executed Wednesday for an unrelated murder.

David Ray Harris, 43, was sentenced to death for a 1985 shootout that killed
Mark Mays after Harris tried to abduct the victim's girlfriend.

Harris gained notoriety for implicating Randall Dale Adams, a hitchhiker he had
picked up in a stolen car, in the 1976 death of Dallas police officer Robert
Wood.

Adams, who had no previous criminal record, served 12 years in prison and came
within three days of execution in 1979 before his sentence was commuted to life
in prison.

Adams was released from prison in 1989, a year after the release of Errol
Morris' 1988 documentary The Thin Blue Line, which suggested he had been wrongly
convicted.

SKIP THE CAR WASH THIS WEEK: Pat Campanella discusses his options with towing
company owner Devin Statts about how to get his car out of a Honolulu pool.
Campanella's wife drove the sport-utility vehicle into the pool on Saturday
while learning to drive.

LOAD-DATE: July 1, 2004

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

SERIES: IN BRIEF

GRAPHIC: PHOTO; PHOTO, Associated Press; Joel Steinberg; Pat Campanella
discusses his options with towing company owner Devin Statts about how to get
his car out of a Honolulu pool after his wife drove it into the pool while
learning to drive.

TYPE: DIGEST

                    Copyright 2004 Times Publishing Company


                              123 of 302 DOCUMENTS

                         St. Petersburg Times (Florida)

               August 11, 2004 Wednesday 0 South Pinellas Edition

Missing Los Alamos discs may not even exist

SOURCE: Compiled from Times Wires

SECTION: NATIONAL; Pg. 3A

LENGTH: 576 words

DATELINE: ALBUQUERQUE, N.M.; HIDALGO, Texas; RALEIGH, N.C.; COLUMBIA, S.C.;
WASHINGTON; SAVANNAH, Ga.; CHICAGO


Two computer discs said to contain classified information and thought to be
missing from Los Alamos National Laboratory may never have been missing, a New
Mexico senator said Tuesday.

The discs' supposed disappearance may merely have been a "false positive" that
resulted from a failed inventory system at the nuclear lab, according to Sen.
Pete Domenici, R-New Mexico.

The discs have been at the center of a scandal that has forced the shutdown of
nearly all classified work at the nuclear lab.

The scenario considered most likely is that the discs never existed at all, the
Associated Press reported. The confusion apparently resulted from two extra
bar-code stickers left on a sheet of 20 that was used to label 18 discs.

9 die in plunge into canal

HIDALGO, Texas - A carload of illegal immigrants speeding away from the Mexican
border plunged into an irrigation canal and overturned, killing eight illegal
immigrants and their alleged smuggler, state troopers said.

Another undocumented migrant survived the one-car wreck Monday night.

Teenager charged with possessing pipe bombs

RALEIGH, N.C. - A teenager charged with possessing more than a dozen pipe bombs
did not appear to have targets when he was arrested after fleeing a traffic
accident, police said.

Jarrett Brown, 17, was arrested Monday after police found six bombs in a car he
was driving and more bombs and explosive-making chemicals in his home.

Brown was charged with 24 counts of possession of weapons of mass destruction
and with hit and run.

Police: Children killed before house set on fire

COLUMBIA, S.C. - Three children found dead in their burned home had their
throats slashed before one of their parents set the fire, authorities said.

Sheriff's Capt. Glenn Williams said the bodies of Denia Meza, 14, Denise Meza,
8, and Jayro Meza, 5, were found in their charred beds after the fire was
extinguished early Monday.

Autopsies determined that Jose Denis Meza, 39, and Marbely Zeldon Meza, 30, died
from smoke inhalation and burns, but the children were dead before the fire was
set, Williams said.

Changes for immigrants

WASHINGTON - The Homeland Security Department will accelerate deportations of
certain illegal immigrants, while allowing Mexicans on short-term legal visits
to stay in the United States for up to a month, it announced.

Asa Hutchinson, the department's undersecretary for border and transportation
security, said that illegal immigrants who are not from Canada or Mexico and
have not been in the country more than 14 days will be quickly deported, usually
without a hearing.

Missile found under home

SAVANNAH, Ga. - An anti-tank missile was found under the home of two men who
recently were arrested while wandering on a gunnery range used by military
helicopters.

Police said officers found the AT-4 antitank missile Monday while investigating
a report of a burglary at the home of Broderick Dass, 48, and his 19-year-old
son, Brandon. The missile was taken to a fairground and detonated.

Vaccine may protect against strep germ

CHICAGO - Scientists say they are making headway in developing a vaccine against
a common strep germ, the cause of millions of sore throats as well as a deadly
flesh-eating disease.

A test of an experimental vaccine in just 28 people prompted an immune response
with no serious side effects, but it's still not known if the shot would keep
people from catching the strep germ.

LOAD-DATE: August 11, 2004

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

SERIES: IN BRIEF

TYPE: DIGEST

                    Copyright 2004 Times Publishing Company


                              124 of 302 DOCUMENTS

                         St. Petersburg Times (Florida)

                             March 30, 2001, Friday

Immigrants feel ticking of clock

BYLINE: CHRISTINA HEADRICK

SECTION: LARGO TIMES; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 884 words



(ran SS edition of Metro & State)

UNO Federation Community Services in Clearwater, which serves Pinellas County's
burgeoning Hispanic community, has fielded as many as 300 calls in recent months
from undocumented immigrants.

They all wanted to know one thing: How could they become permanent, legal  U.S.
residents under a special federal program that expires April 30?

"We've had inquiries from here all the way to Hernando and also from the Wimauma
area," said Ralph Alex Emmanuelli, UNO's executive director, who recently had a
local immigration attorney  offer a workshop to answer questions.

The federal program that has set local immigrant communities abuzz is not a
general amnesty. Instead, it targets perhaps one in 10 illegal immigrants, or
640,000 nationwide out of more than 6-million estimated illegal residents of the
United States.

Qualified immigrants - those who have family ties to U.S.  citizens or
specialized job skills - have until April 30 to apply to the INS for permanent
residency in the United States and receive their green cards.

As long as they meet the deadline, they won't face the normal penalties for
having entered the country illegally. Those penalties would otherwise include
being forced to leave the U.S. and stay out for up to 10 years before being able
to return.

Under the program, they will have to pay a $ 1,000 fine and wait - perhaps for
years - for their applications to be processed by the Immigration and
Naturalization Service. Still, it's an opportunity many people are trying to
grab.

"For some people who are here illegally, this law is the difference between
black and white, round and square," said Clearwater attorney Ramon Carrion, who
expects to file about 100 applications by April 30. "But they have to act
quickly."

The brief window of opportunity opened  in December, when President Clinton
signed the Legal Immigration and Family Equity Act, or LIFE act, reviving an old
immigration provision called 245(i). Specifically, it applies to illegal
immigrants who:

 Are the parents, spouses, children, brothers or sisters of  U.S. citizens who
want to petition for them to have residency.

 Are the spouses or unmarried children of permanent residents who want to
petition for them.

 Have specialized job skills and a potential employer who wants to petition for
them and can't find an American for the job.

Some people are disappointed that the law isn't broader.

The Akar family of Palm Harbor has only one member who is eligible to apply
under the law. The Akars came to the  United States  to escape the violence in
Lebanon 15 years ago.

Fouad Akar was able to get temporary permission to work here; he sells T-shirts
and other merchandise to gas stations. But his wife, Ghada, has stayed past her
original visa, and three of their four children weren't given the proper
paperwork when they entered the country.

Mrs. Akar is applying for residency as a skilled worker - a cook of specialty
Arabic foods - under the LIFE act. A restaurant in Palm Harbor has agreed to
sponsor her and loan her part of the $ 5,000 she's paying Carrion, a hefty sum
for her family.

Meanwhile, her daughter, Ahlam, 20, is frustrated. Without a job skill or a U.S.

 husband, she probably won't apply to become a permanent resident. And without a
green card, she can't go to college - though she received a state scholarship -
to get a skill.

"I've got a chance for me," Mrs. Akar said. But, she added, "I'd rather have it
for all my children.

"Sometimes I cry," she said.

Curiosity about the temporary immigration window has boosted calls to numerous
local agencies like the Catholic Charities Foundation of the Diocese of St.
Petersburg. The foundation's St. Petersburg office estimates it receives 150
calls daily.

Emmanuelli has been telling potential applicants - particularly those with
little money - to call Catholic Charities' offices at (727) 893-1311, ext. 228,
and (813) 631-4397, because they will file petitions for residency for only a
few hundred dollars.

Joe Citro, executive director of Catholic Charities locally, said that there
seems to be confusion about the opportunity and whom it applies to. He has
encouraged his staff members to go on Spanish radio shows to try to explain the
program.

Citro also said people should be warned that some immigration consultants -
often called  notarios in Spanish - are not reputable. He recommended that
people carefully check out anyone they hire to help them file an application
with the INS.

The INS' Tampa office has been busy, too. The program has boosted daily visitors
there from 200 to about 400, said INS spokeswoman Maria Elena Garcia

INS officials will put a drop box outside the Tampa INS office until midnight
April 30 for an expected wave of last-minute applications for residency under
the special provision.

"We realize that we might see a big crunch on that day," Garcia said.

- Times news researcher John Martin contributed to  this report.

Ghada Akar, center, a Lebanese immigrant seeking U.S. residency, stands outside
her Palm Harbor home with her son Ahmad, 11, a U.S. citizen because he was born
here. At right is her daughter, Ahlam, 20. Without a green card, she can't go to
college, though she has a state scholarship.


LOAD-DATE: April 6, 2001

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DISTRIBUTION: LARGO TIMES; SEMINOLE TIMES; CLEARWATER TIMES; CITY & STATE; METRO
& STATE

GRAPHIC: Photo, JILL SAGERS; Ghada Akar, a Lebanese immigrant seeking U.S.
residency, stands outside her Palm Harbor home with her son Ahmad, 11, a U.S.
citizen because he was born here and her daughter, Ahlam, 20 (ran LA, SE, CT)

                    Copyright 2001 Times Publishing Company


                              125 of 302 DOCUMENTS

                         St. Petersburg Times (Florida)

                            March 31, 2001, Saturday

Immigrants rush to beat INS deadline

BYLINE: CHRISTINA HEADRICK

SECTION: NORTH PINELLAS TIMES; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 831 words



UNO Federation Community Services in Clearwater, which serves Pinellas County's
burgeoning Hispanic community, has fielded as many as 300 calls in recent months
from undocumented immigrants.

They all wanted to know one thing: How could they become permanent, legal  U.S.
residents under a special federal program that expires April 30?

"We've had inquiries from here all the way to Hernando and also from the Wimauma
area," said Ralph Alex Emmanuelli, UNO's executive director, who recently had a
local immigration attorney  offer a workshop to answer questions.

The federal program that has set local immigrant communities abuzz is not a
general amnesty. Instead, it targets perhaps one in 10 illegal immigrants, or
640,000 nationwide out of more than 6-million estimated illegal residents of the
United States.

Qualified immigrants - those who have family ties to U.S.  citizens or
specialized job skills - have until April 30 to apply to the INS for permanent
residency in the United States and receive their green cards.

As long as they meet the deadline, they won't face the normal penalties for
having entered the country illegally. Those penalties would otherwise include
being forced to leave the U.S. and stay out for up to 10 years before being able
to return.

Under the program, they will have to pay a $ 1,000 fine and wait - perhaps for
years - for their applications to be processed by the Immigration and
Naturalization Service. Still, it's an opportunity many people are trying to
grab.

"For some people who are here illegally, this law is the difference between
black and white, round and square," said Clearwater attorney Ramon Carrion, who
expects to file about 100 applications by April 30. "But they have to act
quickly."

The brief window of opportunity opened  in December, when President Clinton
signed the Legal Immigration and Family Equity Act, or LIFE act, reviving an old
immigration provision called 245(i). Specifically, it applies to illegal
immigrants who:

 Are the parents, spouses, children, brothers or sisters of  U.S. citizens who
want to petition for them to have residency.

 Are the spouses or unmarried children of permanent residents who want to
petition for them.

 Have specialized job skills and a potential employer who wants to petition for
them and can't find a U.S. citizen for the job.

Some people are disappointed that the law isn't broader.

The Akar family of Palm Harbor has only one member who is eligible to apply
under the law. The Akars came to the  United States  to escape the violence in
Lebanon 15 years ago.

Fouad Akar was able to get temporary permission to work here; he sells T-shirts
and other merchandise to gas stations. But his wife, Ghada, has stayed past her
original visa, and three of their four children weren't given the proper
paperwork when they entered the country.

Mrs. Akar is applying for residency as a skilled worker - a cook of specialty
Arabic foods - under the LIFE act. A restaurant in Palm Harbor has agreed to
sponsor her and loan her part of the $ 5,000 she's paying Carrion, a hefty sum
for her family.

Meanwhile, her daughter, Ahlam, 20, is frustrated. Without a job skill or a U.S.

 husband, she probably won't apply to become a permanent resident. And without a
green card, she can't go to college - though she received a state scholarship -
to get a skill.

"I've got a chance for me," Mrs. Akar said. But, she added, "I'd rather have it
for all my children.

"Sometimes I cry," she said.

Curiosity about the temporary immigration window has boosted calls to numerous
local agencies like the Catholic Charities Foundation of the Diocese of St.
Petersburg. The foundation's St. Petersburg office estimates it receives 150
calls daily.

Emmanuelli has been telling potential applicants - particularly those with
little money - to call Catholic Charities' offices at (727) 893-1311, ext. 228,
and (813) 631-4397, because they will file petitions for residency for only a
few hundred dollars.

Joe Citro, executive director of Catholic Charities locally, said that there
seems to be confusion about the opportunity and whom it applies to. He has
encouraged his staff members to go on Spanish radio shows to try to explain the
program.

Citro also said people should be warned that some immigration consultants -
often called  notarios in Spanish - are not reputable. He recommended that
people carefully check out anyone they hire to help them file an application
with the INS.

The INS' Tampa office has been busy, too. The program has boosted daily visitors
there from 200 to about 400, said INS spokeswoman Maria Elena Garcia

INS officials will put a drop box outside the Tampa INS office until midnight
April 30 for an expected wave of last-minute applications for residency under
the special provision.

"We realize that we might see a big crunch on that day," Garcia said.

- Times news researcher John Martin contributed to  this report.


LOAD-DATE: April 9, 2001

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DISTRIBUTION: NORTH PINELLAS TIMES

GRAPHIC: PHOTO, JILL SAGERS; Ghada Akar, center, a Lebanese immigrant seeking
U.S. residency, stands outside her Palm Harbor home with her son Ahmad, 11, a
U.S. citizen because he was born here. At right is her daughter, Ahlam, 20.
Without a green card, she can't go to college, though she has a state
scholarship.

                    Copyright 2001 Times Publishing Company


                              126 of 302 DOCUMENTS

                         St. Petersburg Times (Florida)

                              May 27, 2001, Sunday

Extend immigration deadline further

SECTION: PERSPECTIVE; EDITORIALS; Pg. 2D

LENGTH: 192 words



The U.S. House of Representatives has voted to extend the deadline under which
illegal immigrants can seek visas without having to leave the country. Now the
Senate has a chance to improve the measure by further extending the new cut-off
date and removing some restrictions from the law.

The Legal Immigration and Family Equity Act applied to illegal immigrants
sponsored by employers or closely related to a U.S. citizen or legal resident.
Immigrants had to have been in the country on or before Dec. 21, 2000, to be
eligible. But the act gave some 64,000 people just over four months to apply for
visas, and even the interim director of the Immigration and Naturalization
Service acknowledged before Congress that was too little time.

Further complicating matters, the INS was slow to come up with rules and
procedures for the applications, which whittled away more precious days. So INS
officials favor a six- or 12-month extention. The House measure extends the
April 30 deadline by only four months and excludes those not qualified before
April.

The White House has signaled support for a longer extention. The Senate should
oblige.


LOAD-DATE: May 28, 2001

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: EDITORIAL

                    Copyright 2001 Times Publishing Company


                              127 of 302 DOCUMENTS

                         St. Petersburg Times (Florida)

               May 29, 2001, Tuesday, 4 State / Suncoast Edition

SURVIVORS RELEASED

SECTION: NATIONAL; IN BRIEF; Pg. 3A

LENGTH: 62 words

DATELINE: PHILADELPHIA



SURVIVORS RELEASED: Three survivors of a border crossing in the Arizona desert
that killed 14 immigrants were released into U.S. Border Patrol custody. The
three were among 26 illegal immigrants who were abandoned by smugglers in
southwestern Arizona on May 19. Thirteen immigrants perished before they were
found; a teenage boy died on the way to the hospital.


LOAD-DATE: May 29, 2001

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: DIGEST

                    Copyright 2001 Times Publishing Company


                              128 of 302 DOCUMENTS

                         St. Petersburg Times (Florida)

               July 21, 2001, Saturday, 0 South Pinellas Edition

Protesters want immigrants to be able to work here legally

BYLINE: LINDA GIBSON

SECTION: CITY & STATE; Pg. 8B

LENGTH: 239 words

DATELINE: TAMPA



At least 75 people celebrated Colombia's independence day Friday by
demonstrating for the right of undocumented immigrants from that country to work
in the United States.

"Bush - We need TPS," read signs at the intersection of Dale Mabry Highway and
Columbus Drive.

Temporary protective status, or TPS, would allow Colombians who have fled their
homeland's violence to work here legally.

Luis Hernandez, an engineer, said there are thousands of Colombian immigrants in
Tampa who are working illegally, mostly in low-paying jobs such as cleaning
services or carwashes.

Many of them, he said, abandoned professional careers in Colombia to escape the
fighting among guerrilla groups, paramilitary forces and government troops.

Waving banners and shouting through a bullhorn, demonstrators regarded every
honking horn as an expression of support.

But they lamented that more people had not turned out to demonstrate.

"It's a shame there aren't more Colombians here to help," said demonstrator
Cristina Diaz, 54, a Realtor.

Diaz and Hernandez said they hoped the demonstration, organized by the
Colombian-American Service Association, would help persuade Florida's
congressional delegation to vote in favor of protective status for Colombian
immigrants.

Similar demonstrations also took place Friday in Chicago, New Jersey and
Washington, D.C., they said.

Colombia achieved independence from Spain on July 20, 1810.


LOAD-DATE: July 21, 2001

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: PHOTO, JOHN PENDYGRAFT; Laura Vasquez, 8, dances to a Latin beat in
front of a Colombian flag

                    Copyright 2001 Times Publishing Company


                              129 of 302 DOCUMENTS

                         St. Petersburg Times (Florida)

                March 04, 2002, Monday, 0 South Pinellas Edition

State may be given authority to arrest illegal immigrants

BYLINE: ANITA KUMAR

SECTION: CITY & STATE; Pg. 1B

LENGTH: 736 words

DATELINE: TALLAHASSEE



When police stopped a U-Haul truck coming into the state on Interstate 10 near
Live Oak last month,  officers found 26 men and women crammed inside. They
couldn't speak English or prove they were in the country legally.

Police called federal immigration agents, who never showed up. So 26 people were
let go.

It's a common  occurrence in Florida. Immigration and Naturalization Service
agents, the only ones who can arrest suspected  undocumented aliens, have more
cases than they can handle.

That's why the state wants the power to detain people on immigration violations
as well.

Within a few weeks, Florida expects to become the first state to be given that
authority, an arrangement officials have been working on since the Sept. 11
terrorist attacks.

Though the powers will go only to a small number of officers, state officials
hail the move as an important part of Gov. Jeb Bush's aggressive,
multimillion-dollar plan to guard against terrorism.

"It's a monumental accomplishment," Tim Moore, commissioner of the Florida
Department of Law Enforcement, told state legislators recently. "It's a start.
Ideally, we would like even more authority."

Local police have long had a problem getting INS agents to a scene to arrest
suspected illegal immigrants. But it wasn't until foreign-born terrorists came
to the United States and orchestrated the Sept. 11 attacks that it became clear
that the problem needed to be resolved, said Steve Lauer, the state's new chief
of domestic security.

Florida, which was temporarily home to at least 13 of 19 terrorists, is expected
to sign an agreement with the federal government within a few weeks, Lauer said.
Seven other states are trying to work out similar deals with the INS, he said.

Russ Bergeron, an INS spokesman in Washington, said he was not aware of the
agreement but that any deal would have to be approved by the U.S. Attorney
General. Dan Nelson, a spokesman for the Justice Department,  declined to
comment.

A pilot program that would have given police some authority over immigration was
considered during the Clinton administration but never materialized, Bergeron
said.

"That has never been done," he said. "None of the attempts ever got off the
ground."

Under the agreement, 35 police officers, sheriff's deputies and FDLE agents
across the state could detain and arrest suspected illegal immigrants, Lauer
said. Five of them will be in the Tampa Bay area. The program could begin in a
few months.

Many questions about the program remain, such as whether the suspects would be
housed in federal deportation facilities or local jails after they are arrested.

Each officer would first undergo four to eight weeks of training at a federal
facility in Georgia. The state would pick up the tab for the training but there
is no price tag yet.

The number of officers is relatively small but Lauer predicts the added
authority will allow the state to get a better handle on suspects who may have
information about terrorism or even be involved in illegal activity.

"It's not intended for run-of-the-mill arrests,"' he said. "It would be solely
related to domestic security."

Federal agents still would be responsible for routine cases of people violating
immigration laws, but the state hopes its unprecedented relationship with the
INS will make federal agents more likely to make arrests and provide
information.

The INS employs 1,500 people in Florida in six offices, including one in Tampa.
Officials won't reveal how many of them have arrest powers but say the majority
of agents are in the Miami office.

Local police now call an INS center in Vermont if they encounter someone they
suspect is in the country illegally. It can take 30 minutes or more for officers
to hear back from the INS, sometime only to be told federal agents aren't
available.

"It happens a lot of the time," said Hillsborough Sheriff Cal Henderson, leader
of the state's domestic security task force for the Tampa Bay area. "But this
(new program) will help us in questionning and learning about domestic
security."

Bergeron said the INS assesses each call on the availability of resources, where
agents are located at the time and whether the suspects have criminal
backgrounds. Sometimes that means calls from Live Oak, far from the nearest INS
office, might not get a response.

"There are times when we don't have the resources," he said.


LOAD-DATE: March 4, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DISTRIBUTION: CITY & STATE; METRO & STATE; TAMPA & STATE

GRAPHIC: PHOTO; Tim Moore

                    Copyright 2002 Times Publishing Company


                              130 of 302 DOCUMENTS

                         St. Petersburg Times (Florida)

                 May 03, 2002, Friday, 0 South Pinellas Edition

No drivers' licenses for illegals

SECTION: EDITORIAL; EDITORIALS; Pg. 16A

LENGTH: 327 words



Democratic state Rep. Bob Henriquez of Tampa says the tighter procedures adopted
by the state driver's license bureau Sept. 11 are disadvantaging Hispanics in
his district, particularly undocumented workers. He says the state might want to
consider providing a special driver's license to people here illegally. Come
again?

While we understand that many Hispanics here illegally are contributing to the
state's economy by working hard for little pay - picking produce on farms,
washing dishes in restaurants and making beds in hotels - the state should not
be legitimizing this often exploitative underground economy. The millions of
people who live in this country illegally should not be rewarded for jumping the
line. They have come here in violation of immigration rules that others from
their country who wish to emigrate are patiently following.

Even before the nation went on a terrorism alert after the Sept. 11 attacks, the
state was taking actions to ensure that driver's license applicants were legal
residents and were the person they said they were. Bob Sanchez, spokesman for
the state Department of Highway Safety and Motor Vehicles, says the state had
already been moving toward a tighter screening process to address identity
theft.

Henriquez has a point when he complains that documented immigrants are sometimes
finding it difficult to prove their legal status. The more vigilant the DHSMV is
in checking and verifying documentation, the more likely people with odd
situations will have a hassle. Some legal immigrants, for example, only have a
court order granting them political asylum and don't have the typical green
card. Sanchez says the department will grant non-citizens a 30-day temporary
license while it double-checks their paperwork. He said new scanning devices
will help expedite the process.

As for Henriquez's other concern - the inability of illegal immigrants to get a
driver's license - he should forget it.


LOAD-DATE: May 3, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: EDITORIAL

                    Copyright 2002 Times Publishing Company


                              131 of 302 DOCUMENTS

                         St. Petersburg Times (Florida)

             January 10, 2001, Wednesday, 0 South Pinellas Edition

Illegal hiring goes on, largely unseen

BYLINE: HELEN HUNTLEY

SECTION: NATIONAL; Pg. 1A

LENGTH: 1200 words



Many people get away with employing illegal immigrants, paying them less and not
paying taxes.

In some ways, little has changed since Zoe Baird's nanny controversy cost her a
chance to be U.S. attorney general eight years ago: People still hire maids and
babysitters illegally and nobody is likely to notice unless the employer is
nominated for a top political job.

Linda Chavez withdrew as President-elect George W. Bush's nominee for secretary
of labor on Tuesday. She was under fire for providing housing and cash to an
illegal immigrant who did chores in Chavez's home, although she denies she was
paying for housework.

According to reports, Marta Mercado, an illegal immigrant from Guatemala, lived
with Chavez from 1991 to 1993. Chavez also referred the immigrant to a neighbor
who gave her a regular babysitting job.

Many people make such informal, though illegal, arrangements for household help,
but nobody knows how many because the work and the payments go deliberately
undocumented.

Hiring illegal aliens is a violation of immigration law. But even if the
employees are U.S. citizens, failing to report their wages and to pay employment
taxes is often a violation of federal and state tax laws. (See related story,
this page.)

Since the Zoe Baird controversy in 1993, when Baird admitted she broke the
employment laws, the government has made it easier for household employers to
report and pay employment taxes.

The taxes are now figured on a schedule filed with the employer's regular tax
return and paid along with other income-tax payments or withholding. The IRS
says 310,367 returns filed for 1997 included a tax schedule for household
employees.

But the number of illegal employment arrangements can only be guessed at.

"I know for a fact that there are people working here in the Tampa Bay area
cleaning houses that shouldn't be," said John Ovink, a Tampa lawyer who
represents immigrants. "Construction, field work and house cleaning are the
easiest jobs for illegal aliens to get."

He said most people probably do not realize that they are supposed to ask a
newly hired babysitter or maid for proof of eligibility to work. And even those
who know enough to ask might not be able to distinguish legitimate documents
from fakes, he said.

"I don't think everyone knows there's an obligation there to make sure that
person has legal papers," said Cheryl Little, director of the Florida Immigrant
Advocacy Center in Miami. "To a large extent, it's an underground work force."

Working in someone's home is a job that allows an illegal alien to disappear
from the Immigration and Naturalization Service, Little said. "You're not at a
big factory where the INS can come in and conduct a raid," she said.

In fact, the INS hasn't had any cases involving household workers in the Tampa
Bay area, said Jeff Wolder, INS supervisor in charge of investigations for the
area.

"If people are working under the table doing housekeeping, that's very difficult
to follow up on," he said. "We can't do anything unless we have some
documentation that people are working, and you just don't hear about it until a
public figure gets brought to task."

The immigrant advocacy center only learns of cases when an immigrant becomes a
victim, Little said.

"They are afraid to complain to the police," she said. "They just feel
completely helpless and with good reason. We had one case of a lady who was a
virtual slave in somebody's home. She was working extraordinarily long hours for
practically no pay and was terrified."

Most illegal aliens find jobs through friends, Ovink said.

"Good workers are hard to get," he said. "It's usually just word of mouth."

Eleanor Nesbit, owner of a Tampa nanny referral service, says parents looking
for a nanny sometimes hire illegal aliens through referrals or newspaper ads.

"I think some people do it intentionally because of the salary range," she said.
"A nanny who has citizenship can get $ 400 to $ 500 a week. Sometimes people can
pick up an illegal person for $ 200 a week because they can't work anywhere
else."

She said her company, A Choice Nanny, requires its nannies to prove their
eligibility to work.

But Nesbit thinks that compliance with employment tax laws has improved
dramatically since the Zoe Baird case.

"That first year a lot of nannies got huge raises to cover the taxes," she said.
"I think the majority of our parents are paying legally. As the nannies get
older they want the Social Security taken out."

St. Petersburg accountant Richard Beagles said many of his older clients pay
taxes on household help, but younger ones rarely do.

"We ask the question, and I prepare returns based on information they provide,"
he said. "I'd like to say they all comply. Maybe older people are more likely to
have domestic employees."

Some companies have sprung up specifically to handle the tax and paperwork
involved with being a household employer.

"We've had very steady growth over the last 10 years," said Guy T. Maddalone,
president of GTM Associates in Albany, N.Y. The company now has several thousand
clients nationwide for its nanny payroll tax and paperwork business, he said.

GTM charges $ 75 to set up a client account and $ 8 to $ 10 a week to service
it. That's not a lot, he said, when you consider that some nannies are making
more than $ 1,000 a week in areas such as San Francisco.

In theory at least, people who hire household help illegally could face
financial penalties.

Failing to document a worker's eligibility is a civil offense, although repeated
infractions could lead to criminal charges, said Wolder at INS. A typical fine
for a first offense involving one employee is $ 750 to $ 1,000. Harboring aliens
to keep the INS from finding them is a crime, but one that's difficult to prove,
he said.

Failure to pay employment taxes could result in IRS penalties and interest,
should the omission be discovered.

But the issue only seems to surface in politics.

In Baird's case, it was the hiring of an illegal immigrant couple from Peru and
the failure to pay employment taxes for them that led to her downfall. Household
employment cases also cost two other would-be Clinton appointees their
positions, U.S. District Judge Kimba Wood, a candidate for attorney general, and
Bobby Ray Inman, nominee for defense secretary.

Others have managed to survive disclosures regarding their household help,
including Christie Whitman, nominated to head the Environmental Protection
Agency; the late Ron Brown, former commerce secretary; Federico Pena, former
transportation secretary; and Sen. Dianne Feinstein, D-Calif.

Even Sen. Bob Graham, D-Fla., confessed during the Zoe Baird case that he had
failed to pay employment taxes for a woman who cleaned his Capitol Hill
townhouse. He paid the IRS $ 375 in taxes and penalties.

One of the ironies of the Chavez case is that she was among those publicly
criticizing Baird in 1993.

"I think most of the American people were upset during the Zoe Baird nomination
that she had hired an illegal alien. That was what upset them more than the fact
that she did not pay Social Security taxes," Chavez said on MacNeil/Lehrer
NewsHour.


LOAD-DATE: January 11, 2001

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                    Copyright 2001 Times Publishing Company


                              132 of 302 DOCUMENTS

                         St. Petersburg Times (Florida)

                October 5, 2003 Sunday 0 South Pinellas Edition

N.Y. rally promotes immigrant rights

SOURCE: Compiled from Times Wires

SECTION: NATIONAL; Pg. 3A

LENGTH: 421 words

DATELINE: NEW YORK; NEW ORLEANS; DENVER


Tens of thousands of immigrants and labor activists staged a rally Saturday for
better treatment of the nation's immigrants, topping off a two-week-long bus
odyssey around the country.

Cardinal Edward Egan told the largely Hispanic crowd that the millions of
undocumented workers in the United States "are all sons and daughters of one
Father in heaven."

"We cannot go on simply ignoring or tolerating the plight of these brothers and
sisters of ours," Egan said.

The demonstrators seek the legalization of undocumented workers, better working
conditions and the reunification of families.

Organizers estimated Saturday's crowd at 100,000 people; police estimates were
not available.

Indian immigrant's son leaps to lead in La.

NEW ORLEANS - An Indian immigrants' son running as a conservative Republican
finished first in an open primary for Louisiana governor Saturday, leaving three
veteran Democratic politicians scrambling for the second spot in a runoff.

Despite an impressive resume - Rhodes Scholar, high-level state and federal jobs
at 32 - Bobby Jindal's youth and ethnicity were expected to work against him.
His steady rise and appeal to Louisiana's conservatives had been the surprise of
the campaign.

With 47 percent of precincts reporting, Jindal led with 35 percent, with a close
contest for the second spot between Lt. Gov. Kathleen Blanco and Attorney
General Richard Ieyoub, and former Congressman Claude "Buddy" Leach not far
behind.

If none of the 17 candidates on the ballot pull in more than 50 percent of the
vote in the primary, the top two go to a Nov. 15 runoff.

Denver's mile-high milestones re-evaluated

DENVER - For decades tourists have been coming to the Mile High City and posing
for pictures at precisely 5,283.03 feet above sea level. Perhaps now they would
like to come back and get a shot at 5,280 feet, exactly one mile high.

It seems there was some confusion over the years as to exactly where the
celebrated spot falls on the Capitol's steps. In 1909, officials tried to keep a
marker on the 15th step, but in 1947 etched in the words "One Mile Above Sea
Level" after the plaque was repeatedly stolen. Engineers in 1969 determined that
a new marker should be placed on the 18th step.

But last week Gov. Bill Owens heeded land surveyors and moved the point to the
13th step - 3.03 feet down - and installed a third marker. Nothing has caused
the city to rise appreciably or the steps to sink, but new technology has
changed the way measurements are taken.

LOAD-DATE: October 6, 2003

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

SERIES: IN BRIEF

TYPE: DIGEST

                    Copyright 2003 Times Publishing Company


                              133 of 302 DOCUMENTS

                         St. Petersburg Times (Florida)

              December 12, 2000, Tuesday, 0 South Pinellas Edition

Protecting farm workers

SECTION: EDITORIAL; EDITORIALS; Pg. 22A

LENGTH: 509 words



Congress is considering several versions of legislation that would grant
temporary work visas to about 1-million foreign farm workers. But the structure
of the visa program imperils the rights of both immigrant and citizen farm
workers. The proffered visas are problematic because they are good only as long
as the worker stays with the same employer. With the threat of deportation
hanging over their heads, few farm workers brought in under the program would
feel secure enough to demand appropriate wages, decent housing conditions or
even opportunities to work all the hours they are promised.

What's more, the proposals loosen the requirement government previously placed
on growers to provide adequate housing and a fair wage. Instead, growers could
implement compensation schemes that could pay some farm workers less than the
federal minimum wage. Some versions of the proposed legislation also say it
would be sufficient for a grower to offer workers housing vouchers rather than
actual housing, regardless of whether the voucher is sufficient to purchase
housing in the local private market.

And lowering standards for guest workers serves to lower standards
industry-wide, undercutting the requirement that growers aggressively recruit
American farm workers first. Taken together, the proposals constitute a strong
incentive to choose potentially exploitable guest workers over the more
demanding American workers.

The proposals are made even more suspect by figures from a 1997 General
Accounting Office report documenting a surplus of farm labor in many
agricultural areas. Subsequent studies have shown high unemployment and falling
wages for farm workers, despite robust growth in the economy.

Florida Sen. Bob Graham and other lawmakers have worked to soften the proposals'

 harsher provisions by threatening to withhold support unless legislation
establishes a process for undocumented workers already in the United States to
eventually earn citizenship. While this is a good idea, the citizenship
requirements should not be so onerous that few undocumented workers could ever
make it through the process. Meanwhile, some conservative lawmakers fiercely
oppose any proposal to grant citizenship status to undocumented farm workers in
the United States.

A realistic compromise might tie any further increases in foreign farm workers
to stiff sanctions for growers who fail to provide adequate housing, wages and
work opportunities. (The current proposals call only for $ 1,000 fines.)
Lawmakers might also consider toughening provisions requiring growers to seek
American workers first.

If House and Senate leaders cannot reconcile their bills before the end of this
lame-duck session, they should choose at least to do no harm: Negotiations
between growers and farmworkers' union representatives might make many current
concerns moot. And pressuring farm-state governors such as Jeb Bush to
facilitate talks could smooth the path to settlement. But a program that so
clearly advantages growers would be a step backward.


LOAD-DATE: December 13, 2000

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: EDITORIAL

                    Copyright 2000 Times Publishing Company


                              134 of 302 DOCUMENTS

                         St. Petersburg Times (Florida)

              August 04, 2001, Saturday, 0 South Pinellas Edition

Two Cubans accused of smuggling immigrants

SOURCE: Compiled from Times Wires

SECTION: CITY & STATE; AROUND THE STATE; Pg. 5B

LENGTH: 520 words

DATELINE: MIAMI; TALLAHASSEE; PENSACOLA; ST. AUGUSTINE



Two Cuban nationals were charged Friday with trying to smuggle 26 illegal
immigrants to the United States in a speedboat that capsized, killing six.

Osvaldo Fernandez Marrero and Roberto Montero Dominguez, both of Miami-Dade
County, were charged after investigators interviewed them and 20 other survivors
pulled from rough seas early Wednesday south of Key West.

Three adults and three children died, but only one body was recovered.

State hopes to wrap up

round of aerial spraying

TALLAHASSEE - State mosquito control officials hoped to finish aerial spraying
for the pests Friday night in Madison County, where a man contracted the
mosquito-borne West Nile virus.

State Department of Agriculture planes sprayed the mosquito insecticide Dibrom
on Wednesday and Thursday night in Madison County, which is in North Florida
between Tallahassee and Jacksonville.

They've also been spraying in Liberty County, west of Tallahassee.

Meanwhile, the Department of Agriculture announced Friday that a new vaccine
meant to protect horses against West Nile will be available in Florida as early
as next week. The U.S. Department of Agriculture conditionally approved the
vaccine earlier this week.

The Madison County man, Seymore Carruthers, 73, remained in fair condition
Friday at a Tallahassee hospital.

Wayne Gale, a mosquito control specialist with the Agriculture Department, said
after state officials finish spraying in Madison and Liberty Counties they will
begin spraying in Okaloosa and Jefferson Counties. Wakulla County already has
been sprayed.

Businessman to undergo

evaluation before trial

PENSACOLA - A prominent Pensacola seafood company owner who claims he has
amnesia will be sent to a prison hospital for evaluation to determine whether he
can stand trial on tax evasion charges.

U.S. District Court Judge Lacey Collier ruled Thursday that Frank Patti must
report to the Federal Medical Center in North Carolina by Aug. 13.

Lawyers for Patti, the owner of a well-known seafood company and shipyard, claim
he awoke in the hospital following a May car wreck with no recollection of the
tax charges.

Doctors at the federal medical center would have four months to determine
whether Patti is likely to recover enough to be considered competent to stand
trial.

Patti, 70, is accused of failing to report more than $ 7-million in income from
1993 through 1998.

Guard to publicize details

of crash that killed 21

ST. AUGUSTINE - Details from the investigation of a crash in Georgia that killed
21 National Guardsmen will be made public Monday by the Florida National Guard.

Maj. Gen. Ronald O. Harrison, the Florida Guard's adjutant general, will present
the findings into the cause of the March 3 crash that killed 18 members of a
National Guard unit from Virginia and three Florida guardsmen flying them home.

Chief Warrant Officer Erik Paul Larson of Land O'Lakes, Staff Sgt. Robert
Franklin Ward Jr. of Lakeland and Chief Warrant Officer Johnny Wayne Duce of
Orange Park from the 171st Aviation Battalion based in Lakeland were killed in
the crash.

- Compiled from Times wires.


LOAD-DATE: August 4, 2001

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: DIGEST

                    Copyright 2001 Times Publishing Company


                              135 of 302 DOCUMENTS

                         St. Petersburg Times (Florida)

               April 14, 2004 Wednesday 0 South Pinellas Edition

Agency revamps detainee policy

SOURCE: Compiled from Times Wires

SECTION: NATIONAL; Pg. 10A

LENGTH: 486 words

DATELINE: WASHINGTON


Immigrants detained in terrorism investigations can no longer be held
indefinitely without evidence, the Department of Homeland Security said Tuesday,
announcing a new policy to prevent abuses of authority.

After the Sept. 11, 2001, attacks, hundreds of men - mainly from the Middle East
- were arrested because of alleged minor immigration violations and jailed for
months, some under harsh conditions.

The new policy is intended to correct those problems and create a system of
"checks and balances," said Asa Hutchinson, the Homeland Security Department's
undersecretary for border and transportation security.

"This is not a fine-tuning; it's a very significant correction," he told
reporters.

The Homeland Security Department's new policy limits the conditions under which
an individual detained on immigration charges during a terrorism investigation
can be held. The new policy clarifies what is considered an emergency and sets
up several levels of periodic reviews to ensure that detainees do not languish
behind bars indefinitely.

Federal deficit almost $300-billion in '04

WASHINGTON - The government produced a deficit of $299.5 billion in the first
half of the 2004 budget year, the Treasury Department reported Tuesday.

For the budget year that began Oct. 1, spending totaled $1.1-trillion, while
revenues came to $850.4-billion.

The year-to-date deficit showed the government bleeding more red ink than the
$253.1-billion shortfall recorded for the corresponding period last year. The
latest figures underscore the worsening state of the government's balance
sheets.

So far this budget year, the biggest spending categories were programs from the
Health and Human Services Department, including Medicare and Medicaid,
$266.4-billion; Social Security, $259.6-billion; military, $213-billion; and
interest on the public debt, $157.3-billion.

Also . . .

SEN. McCAIN'S WIFE SUFFERS STROKE: Cindy McCain, wife of Sen. John McCain, was
hospitalized in stable condition Tuesday after suffering a small stroke. McCain
said his wife would not require surgery or a lengthy hospital stay. "She's fine.
Her progress is excellent," he said.  Cindy McCain, 49, suffered minor bleeding
in her brain, and her speech was mildly affected, said Robert Spetzler, director
of the Barrow Neurological Institute at St. Joseph's Hospital. McCain said the
bleeding had stopped, and he expected his wife to leave intensive care Wednesday
and return home by the weekend.

RICIN ARREST: Federal authorities have arrested a 37-year-old Seattle area man
they say made ricin in his apartment from mail-order castor seeds. Robert M.
Alberg was charged in federal court on Friday with knowingly possessing a
biological agent or toxin and was booked into the federal detention center in
SeaTac pending indictment, U.S. attorney's spokesman Lawrence Lincoln said
Monday.

LOAD-DATE: April 14, 2004

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

SERIES: IN BRIEF

TYPE: DIGEST

                    Copyright 2004 Times Publishing Company


                              136 of 302 DOCUMENTS

                         St. Petersburg Times (Florida)

               December 12, 2001, Wednesday, 2 Late Tampa Edition

Jordanian student at USF freed from INS detention

SECTION: TAMPA & STATE; BRIEFLY; Pg. 3B

LENGTH: 584 words

DATELINE: TAMPA



After spending nearly 80 days behind bars, a Jordanian student studying chemical
engineering at the University of South Florida was released this week.

Ala'a Hamed Kababji, 23, left a detention center in Bradenton on Monday after
immigration officials dropped efforts to deport him. Kababji, who came to the
United States from Jordan in August, can now return to classes at USF.

The Immigration and Naturalization Service kept Kababji in custody in October
and moved to deport him for violating his student visa. The INS said he violated
his visa when USF police arrested him Sept. 26 on charges of raping another
student.

The woman, a 27-year-old exchange student, said Kababji emotionally manipulated
her into sex; Kababji said the couple was dating. Prosecutors never formally
filed the charges, citing a lack of evidence.

But because USF had suspended Kababji after his arrest, the INS took him into
custody for violating the terms of his visa. Originally, the government held
Kababji without bail during deportation proceedings.

"He is so happy, so happy" said Asem Zaitoun, a cousin who lives in Alabama.

Kababji spent Tuesday celebrating his release and buying gifts for his family in
Amman, Jordan, his cousin said. Kababji, who was kicked out of his on-campus
apartments, plans to continue his studies.

Boy, 13, charged in

attempted sex assault

TAMPA - A 13-year-old boy was charged Tuesday with trying to sexually assault a
male student in the restroom at Ben Hill Middle School.

The victim, 14, told a school resource officer on Tuesday that he was attacked
Oct. 17 while using the urinal at the school on Ehrlich Road.

Sheriff's spokesman Lt. Rod Reder said the victim fought back and tried to leave
the restroom during the attack. The 13-year-old boy, who was not named by
police, was charged with attempted sexual battery, false imprisonment and
misdemeanor battery.

He was being held Tuesday night in the Juvenile Detention Center.

Ex-police officer pleads

to violating civil rights

TAMPA - A former Plant City police officer pleaded guilty in federal court
Tuesday to grossly violating residents' civil rights, including conducting
illegal searches, faking affidavits and threatening suspects.

Robert David Dixon, 40, reached an agreement with federal prosecutors that calls
for him to assist in the investigation against a number of other defendants.

Dixon's sentencing will be delayed until after his work with investigators is
done.

He has agreed to help build cases against at least nine defendants - eight
police officers and one public official - who are accused of either taking part
in the illegal activities or doing nothing to stop them.

The identities of the defendants have not been made public because the
investigation continues.

Dixon, who will be free until he is sentenced, faces up to 10 years in prison.

Armed robber suspected

in other bank heists

TAMPA - Police think a man who robbed the Southern Exchange Bank at 1901 W Swann
Ave. on Tuesday is the same man responsible for five bank robberies in the area
since April.

He is described as black, 35-40 years old, 6 feet tall and 250 pounds. He drives
a late-model green, four-door Ford Escort or Tempo.

Other banks he is suspected of robbing include the First Union at 1770 N 50th
St., Republic Security Bank at 2100 W Swann Ave. and the SunTrust Bank on S
MacDill Ave.

Tuesday's robbery occurred about 2:25 p.m. Witnesses said the man displayed a
handgun. No one was injured.


LOAD-DATE: December 12, 2001

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DISTRIBUTION: TAMPA & STATE

GRAPHIC: PHOTO; Ala'a Hamed Kababji

TYPE: DIGEST

                    Copyright 2001 Times Publishing Company


                              137 of 302 DOCUMENTS

                         St. Petersburg Times (Florida)

                              June 1, 2003 Sunday

"Alien smuggler' seized west of Tarpon Springs

BYLINE: THERESA BLACKWELL

SECTION: CLEARWATER TIMES; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 786 words

DATELINE: TARPON SPRINGS; WALL SPRINGS


Headlines through the years

A look back at the events, people and places that made North Pinellas the unique
place that it is. The information  is compiled from past editions of the St.
Petersburg Times.

May 10, 1924

The two-masted schooner Barcelona, her captain and crew of four, 75 aliens and
three large automobiles today are in possession of federal government agents as
a result of what is said to be the largest capture of smuggled aliens ever on
Florida's west coast.

Late Thursday evening, customs officer Webster Little sighted the Barcelona 29
miles west of Tarpon Springs. Believing she might be an "alien smuggler," he
sounded an alarm which sent agents scurrying to guard every road out of the
village. With Chief of Police F.B. Green, deputy sheriffs and other officials,
he put out to the schooner in a small launch and placed under arrest the crew
and 50 aliens who were held aboard until the arrival of immigration authorities
from headquarters here.

The agents watching the roads captured three large touring cars and 25 aliens
who had been landed before the raid was made. The prisoners were removed to
Tampa for a preliminary hearing and to be held pending evidence by government
authorities at Washington.

Local immigration inspector W.A. Whalen said he learned from Antonio Basch, the
captain of the vessel, that he sailed from Bata Bano, Cuba, Saturday and picked
up the human cargo at a nearby point. Whalen said there were already between 90
and 95 aliens in jail here charged with illegal entry, several of whom were
captured when they landed from a launch which had come up the river within a few
blocks of the business district. They probably will be deported, he added.

May 14, 1924

St. Petersburg man buys Wall Springs

WALL SPRINGS - Announcement was made today of the sale of the famous Wall
Springs and the property connected therewith, approximately 40 acres, to David
S. Welch, the man who fathered the new Pinellas Park special road and bridge
district, and who owns and controls the gulf beach properties across Boca Ciega
Bay opposite Seminole.

The deal was consummated by W. McKee Kelley, as agent for the owners of the
springs property - J. Edgar Wall, Mrs. Florrie B. Wall, C.H. Freas and Mrs. Rose
Wall Freas. The Walls are residents of Tampa, while the Freas live in
Brooksville.

The consideration was not made public.

Wall Springs is midway between Tarpon Springs and Palm Harbor, formerly known as
Sutherland. The springs, which have a history older than most any section of
Pinellas county, have been a popular outing place for more than 30 years. A
bathing pool is now operated at the spring, which is said to have healing
qualities and to possess a strong percentage of lithia.

No announcement was made by Mr. Welch in regard to his purchase, or his plans
for the future.

Mr. Welch came to St. Petersburg several years ago, when he was interested, as
he is yet, in a transportation line to Cuba. He originally planned a freight
ferry line from St. Petersburg to Havana, but the condition of the sugar market
caused a change in his plans. He was for a number of years head of the Welch
Manufacturing company of Oldsmar.

Editor's note: Wall Springs Park, now a county park at 3725 De Soto Blvd., Palm
Harbor, is open to the public. The spring is fenced and swimming is not allowed.


May 25, 1958

Engineers to okay Anclote funds

TARPON SPRINGS - Approval of additional funds for Anclote Harbor and turning
basin were assured this week when Mayor Fred H. Howard received a telegram from
Congressman William C. Cramer stating that Army Engineers were approving the
funds. Authority for transfer of the funds was scheduled to be given within a
few days.

"This is something that Tarpon Springs has been waiting 12 years to see become a
reality," said Howard, "and it will mean a great deal to our city economically."

Howard said the project, when completed, will be a natural place for pleasure
boats and commercial boats to dock and take advantage of port facilities. "The
arrival of the shrimp fleet during the past week is indicative of what can
happen if we are ready to accommodate visiting boats."

The area included in the project extends from near Billiris Boat docks west on
the Anclote River near Minos Sarris Boat Works.

- Theresa Blackwell compiles the history column. She can be reached at (727)
445-4229 or blackwell@sptimes.com.

MARCH 29, 1953: Members of Largo Fire Department assist neighboring fire units
at the scene of a tragic nursing home fire south of the city limits.
Thirty-three lives were lost in the fire that triggered a national movement for
improvements to nursing home facilities.

LOAD-DATE: June 1, 2003

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DISTRIBUTION: CLEARWATER TIMES; NORTH PINELLAS TIMES; LARGO TIMES

SERIES: PINELLAS HISTORY

GRAPHIC: PHOTO, Courtesy Largo Area Historical Society; MARCH 29, 1953: Members
of Largo Fire Department assist neighboring fire units at the scene of a tragic
nursing home fire south of the city limits.

TYPE: DIGEST

                    Copyright 2003 Times Publishing Company


                              138 of 302 DOCUMENTS

                         St. Petersburg Times (Florida)

                             June 4, 2003 Wednesday

"Alien smuggler' seized west of Tarpon Springs

BYLINE: THERESA BLACKWELL

SECTION: NORTH PINELLAS TIMES; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 742 words

DATELINE: TARPON SPRINGS; WALL SPRINGS


Headlines through the years

A look back at the events, people and places that made North Pinellas the unique
place that it is. The information  is compiled from past editions of the St.
Petersburg Times.

May 10, 1924

TARPON SPRINGS - The two-masted schooner Barcelona, her captain and crew of
four, 75 aliens and three large automobiles today are in possession of federal
government agents as a result of what is said to be the largest capture of
smuggled aliens ever on Florida's west coast.

Late Thursday evening, customs officer Webster Little sighted the Barcelona 29
miles west of Tarpon Springs. Believing she might be an "alien smuggler," he
sounded an alarm which sent agents scurrying to guard every road out of the
village. With Chief of Police F.B. Green, deputy sheriffs and other officials,
he put out to the schooner in a small launch and placed under arrest the crew
and 50 aliens who were held aboard until the arrival of immigration authorities
from headquarters here.

The agents watching the roads captured three large touring cars and 25 aliens
who had been landed before the raid was made. The prisoners were removed to
Tampa for a preliminary hearing and to be held pending evidence by government
authorities at Washington.

Local immigration inspector W.A. Whalen said he learned from Antonio Basch, the
captain of the vessel, that he sailed from Bata Bano, Cuba, Saturday and picked
up the human cargo at a nearby point. Whalen said there were already between 90
and 95 aliens in jail here charged with illegal entry, several of whom were
captured when they landed from a launch which had come up the river within a few
blocks of the business district. They probably will be deported, he added.

May 14, 1924

St. Petersburg man buys Wall Springs

WALL SPRINGS - Announcement was made today of the sale of the famous Wall
Springs and the property connected therewith, approximately 40 acres, to David
S. Welch, the man who fathered the new Pinellas Park special road and bridge
district, and who owns and controls the gulf beach properties across Boca Ciega
Bay opposite Seminole.

The deal was consummated by W. McKee Kelley, as agent for the owners of the
springs property - J. Edgar Wall, Mrs. Florrie B. Wall, C.H. Freas and Mrs. Rose
Wall Freas. The Walls are residents of Tampa, while the Freas live in
Brooksville.

The consideration was not made public.

Wall Springs is midway between Tarpon Springs and Palm Harbor, formerly known as
Sutherland. The springs, which have a history older than most any section of
Pinellas county, have been a popular outing place for more than 30 years. A
bathing pool is now operated at the spring, which is said to have healing
qualities and to possess a strong percentage of lithia.

No announcement was made by Mr. Welch in regard to his purchase, or his plans
for the future.

Mr. Welch came to St. Petersburg several years ago, when he was interested, as
he is yet, in a transportation line to Cuba. He originally planned a freight
ferry line from St. Petersburg to Havana, but the condition of the sugar market
caused a change in his plans. He was for a number of years head of the Welch
Manufacturing company of Oldsmar.

Editor's note: Wall Springs Park, now a county park at 3725 De Soto Blvd., Palm
Harbor, is open to the public. The spring is fenced and swimming is not allowed.


May 25, 1958

Engineers to okay Anclote funds

TARPON SPRINGS - Approval of additional funds for Anclote Harbor and turning
basin were assured this week when Mayor Fred H. Howard received a telegram from
Congressman William C. Cramer stating that Army Engineers were approving the
funds. Authority for transfer of the funds was scheduled to be given within a
few days.

"This is something that Tarpon Springs has been waiting 12 years to see become a
reality," said Howard, "and it will mean a great deal to our city economically."

Howard said the project, when completed, will be a natural place for pleasure
boats and commercial boats to dock and take advantage of port facilities. "The
arrival of the shrimp fleet during the past week is indicative of what can
happen if we are ready to accommodate visiting boats."

The area included in the project extends from near Billiris Boat docks west on
the Anclote River near Minos Sarris Boat Works.

- Theresa Blackwell compiles the history column. She can be reached at (727)
445-4229 or blackwell@sptimes.com.

LOAD-DATE: June 4, 2003

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

SERIES: Pinellas History

GRAPHIC: PHOTO, Courtesy Largo Area Historical Society; MARCH 29, 1953: Members
of Largo Fire Department assist neighboring fire units at the scene of a tragic
nursing home fire south of the city limits. Thirty-three lives were lost in the
fire that triggered a national movement for improvements to; nursing home
facilities.

TYPE: DIGEST

                    Copyright 2003 Times Publishing Company


                              139 of 302 DOCUMENTS

                         St. Petersburg Times (Florida)

                June 19, 2002 Wednesday 0 South Pinellas Edition

U.S. citizens were held in Pakistan, says administration

SOURCE: Compiled from Times Wires

SECTION: NATIONAL; Pg. 6A

LENGTH: 625 words

DATELINE: WASHINGTON


The Bush administration disclosed Tuesday that two U.S. citizens of Afghan
origin were detained in Pakistan last month for immigration violations along the
Afghan border, and that one was deported to the United States last weekend.

But officials said that neither man had any suspected link to al-Qaida or
terrorism and that the man deported to the United States was not under arrest or
any form of detention here.

The announcement came Tuesday after senior administration officials, responding
to reports from Pakistani authorities, repeatedly insisted that they had no
information about any detained Americans.

Officials here explained that apparent contradiction by saying that the
Pakistani authorities' earlier reports had suggested detainees with links to
al-Qaida, a profile that did not fit these cases.

Compromise would let

250 pilots carry guns

WASHINGTON - Key Democratic and Republican lawmakers in the House Tuesday agreed
to a proposal that would allow 250 airline pilots to carry guns during a
two-year experimental program.

The plan, which is scheduled for a vote today by the House aviation
subcommittee, is a compromise that was reached to address concerns by some
members of Congress that arming pilots might inadvertently endanger passengers
or other crew members.

Since the Sept. 11 hijackings, pilots have lobbied aggressively for the right to
have guns in the cockpit.

Travelers soon will have to

open checked bags

WASHINGTON - Millions of airline passengers will soon be asked to open their
checked bags for explosives inspection, federal officials said Tuesday as they
outlined new details of plans to complete the government's planned takeover of
airport security by year's end.

The added inconvenience to travelers, experts said, will be the price of trying
to meet a Dec. 31 congressional deadline for screening all checked bags with
explosives detection equipment.

The security checks should take no more than two to 2 1/2 minutes, officials
promised, citing results from a pilot program at the Norfolk, Va., airport.

The luggage policy will be phased in as uniformed federal passenger and baggage
screeners begin staffing airport checkpoints in force later this summer,
transportation officials said.

Also . . .

MOUSSAOUI SHOWS DISDAIN: Zacarias Moussaoui, accused of conspiracy in the Sept.
11 attacks, says his judge is mentally ill, his former lawyers are bloodsuckers
and Jews are his enemies.

He also says he wants his trial moved from Northern Virginia, near the Pentagon,
to Colorado, where there are fewer government workers.

LIMITS ON INSURERS' LIABILITY: With the White House prodding reluctant
Republicans, the Senate on Tuesday passed legislation that would bail out
insurance companies with taxpayers' money in the event of a devastating
terrorist attack.

The insurance industry sought the protection after the Sept. 11 hijackings,
saying that commercial property and casualty insurance companies would stop
issuing terrorism coverage without it.

The Senate vote was 84-14, but it's uncertain the legislation will ever reach
President Bush's desk. The Senate measure differs sharply from the House of
Representatives' version, mainly on the controversial issue of restrictions on
lawsuits stemming from terrorism attacks.

Florida Sens. Bob Graham and Bill Nelson, both Democrats, voted for the bill.

VATICAN DONATION: Following Pope John Paul II's wishes, a Vatican charity has
donated $50,000 to a New York hospital that cared for victims of the Sept. 11
terror strikes. L'Osservatore Romano, the Vatican newspaper, reported Tuesday
that St. Vincent's Catholic Medical Center in Manhattan was the recipient of the
funds from the Vatican's charity arm.

LOAD-DATE: June 19, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                    Copyright 2002 Times Publishing Company


                              140 of 302 DOCUMENTS

                         St. Petersburg Times (Florida)

                 July 30, 2002 Tuesday 0 South Pinellas Edition

The NRA poster boy

SECTION: EDITORIAL; Pg. 6A

LENGTH: 547 words


Attorney General John Ashcroft's views are so extreme on gun control laws that
he finds himself in the postion of shielding gun-toting felons and illegal
aliens. One would think such a stand would embarrass Ashcroft, who is supposedly
in the midst of fighting terrorism inside our borders. Yet Ashcroft's zeal never
waivers as he protects his favorite special interest, the gun lobby.

His latest outrageous behavior comes in the debate over the National Instant
Criminal Background Check system, called NICS. It works this way: When someone
buys a gun, the FBI or state law enforcement officials do a background check to
keep firearms out of the hands of convicted felons, fugitives and illegal
aliens. The law allows those records to be retained for 90 days, after which
they must be destroyed. Ashcroft wants the records purged after a single day.

Those 90 days are important to law enforcement officials, who often discover
after the fact that a gun was illegally purchased. They can then use NICS
records to find the buyer and retrieve the gun. In fact, of the 235 illegal gun
sales in a recent six-month period, all but 7 took longer than a day to be
noticed, according to a new study by the General Accounting Office.

Ashcroft says using the records for criminal investigations is illegal, claiming
it is an invasion of gun owners' privacy. This isn't the only time the attorney
general has given the law his own interpretation to advance the gun industry's
agenda.

When the FBI began rounding up foreign residents after the Sept. 11 terrorist
attacks, the agency wanted to use NICS records to determine if those suspects
had purchased guns, possibly illegally. Ashcroft said no and in December
testified to U.S. Senate that "Congress specifically outlaws and bans . . . the
use of approved purchase records for weapons checks on possible terrorists or
anyone else."

Not exactly. Recently, a Justice Department memo dated two months prior to his
testimony surfaced. "We see nothing in the NICS regulations that prohibits the
FBI from deriving additional benefits from checking audit log records" as part
of their terrorism investigation, the memo stated.

Ashcroft has been only too willing to trample on the rights of many Americans to
achieve his often narrow agenda. The exception has been gun manufacturers,
dealers and owners. For them, he has created new constitutional protections.

In arguing a gun case in May before the U.S. Supreme Court, Ashcroft's Justice
Department revealed that it would change decades of federal policy and
reinterpret the Second Amendment to give individuals the constitutional right to
own firearms. Until then, the Justice Department had contended that the Second
Amendment confers the right to bear arms only on the "well regulated militia"
that is its subject.

No wonder Ashcroft is the poster boy, literally, of the National Rifle
Association, which put him on the cover of its magazine. Meanwhile, 30,000
Americans a year are killed by guns, and attorneys for John Walker Lindh, the
so-called American Taliban, have latched onto Ashcroft's pronouncements to
defend their client's actions.

It is becoming increasingly clear that John Ashcroft is far outside the American
mainstream when it comes to reasonable gun control.

LOAD-DATE: July 30, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: DRAWING, PAUL SZEP; Caricature of Attorney General John Ashcroft

                    Copyright 2002 Times Publishing Company


                              141 of 302 DOCUMENTS

                         St. Petersburg Times (Florida)

               January 8, 2004 Thursday 0 South Pinellas Edition

Q&A

SECTION: NATIONAL; Pg. 1A

LENGTH: 107 words


Q: Would the plan provide amnesty to illegal immigrants already in this country?

A: That depends on how amnesty is defined. In 1986, illegal immigrants who could
prove they had been in the country since before 1982 were allowed to apply for
legal permanent residence. Bush's proposal does not provide a similar provision.
Instead, immigrants in the program would be allowed to work legally, with the
same worker protections as an American. An employer can petition for the worker
to become a legal permanent resident, but under current law, the worker must
return home before he can apply himself.

More questions and answers, 3A

LOAD-DATE: January 8, 2004

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

SERIES: Q&A

                    Copyright 2004 Times Publishing Company


                              142 of 302 DOCUMENTS

                         St. Petersburg Times (Florida)

               January 10, 2004 Saturday 0 South Pinellas Edition

Bush's migrant policy aims for payback, votes

SECTION: EDITORIAL; Pg. 15A

LENGTH: 1918 words


Re: Bush calls migrant policy the right thing to do, Jan. 8.

So now President Bush is trying to convince us that it is in our best interest
to grant illegal aliens the right to work in our country. Every day we lose
good-paying U.S. jobs to countries such as India, the Philippines, Ireland,
Canada and South America. The U.S. based corporations that send these jobs
overseas continue to spit in the taxpayers' faces while they collect large
subsidies and tax breaks from our government. They use politically correct terms
like "eliminating," "restructuring" or "business decision" in explaining away
why they put their dedicated U.S. employees out of work. Now we aren't even safe
within our own borders.

President Bush wants to bring cheap labor from across the border for two
reasons: 1) to eventually deflate wages as a payback for his wealthy corporate
contributors and 2) to hopefully score more Hispanic votes in his re-election
bid.

If the general public would pay more attention to this important issue and not
be so concerned about such shallow subjects as Britney Spears' escapades in Las
Vegas, President Bush and his cronies might not be able to get away with this
outrage.

Michael Cote, Holiday

A slap in the face

Re: Illegal immigrants.

Do I have this straight? We have 9-million people out of work due to 911 and
outsourcing offshore, but now President Bush wants to import foreigners to take
the jobs that do not pay a living wage? As I read through the paper, I see
reports that factory orders are "down" again, Sykes closes another call center,
and Earthlink downsizes by 1,300 jobs.

President Bush has brought "offshore" to the United States. It's cheaper not to
move offshore if we can import and promote more poverty right here in the United
States.

This was a very bad move. This is a slap in the face to all Americans. Pay us a
living wage; illegal immigrants can't vote.

Maybe he has finally awoken those who have stood by for too long without getting
involved. As they say, if you are not outraged, you are not paying attention. I
have heard Bush say that he does not read the papers but relies on his staff to
keep him informed of only what he "needs" to know. I "need to know" what planet
Mr. Bush is living on.

Karen Frioli, St. Petersburg

U.S. workers will lose

Yes, indeed, if we can't export the jobs to low-wage countries, then just import
the workers (George W. Bush's "guest worker" program). Either way, U.S. workers
lose.

Of course, industries such as restaurants and agriculture interests, which can't
move their jobs overseas, love the idea: a pool of workers willing to work for
starvation wages and endure a miserable and many times unsafe working
environment, conditions to which U.S. workers are not willing to subject
themselves and their families.

There are probably plenty of U.S. workers for these jobs if they offered decent
wages and working conditions, but that won't happen so long as the Bush
administration permits and encourages the influx of noncitizens who will work
for less.

Some of us believe that the welfare of U.S. workers might be a bit more
important than providing a pool of cheap labor for some industries by making
illegal aliens legal and improving Bush's relations with Mexican President
Vicente Fox, however much it might help him with Hispanic voters in November.

Sydney K. Potter, St. Petersburg

Illegal immigration will be made worse

Re: Bush to offer Mexican worker law, Jan. 6.

President Bush, being the "compassionate" person that he is, is proposing to
grant amnesty (disguised as a "guest worker program") to approximately 10- to
12-million illegal aliens in this country. In 1986 President Reagan did exactly
the same thing, only he gave amnesty to the 3-million illegals in the country at
that time. Well, we see how that worked out. Instead of deterring illegal
immigration as President Reagan promised, we now have 10- to 12-million illegals
in America. I suppose in 10 more years we can expect to have up to 25-million,
because like his predecessor, President Bush has no plan to keep future illegals
from crossing our porous borders.

While government statistics show our unemployment rate to be around 6 percent,
some experts estimate that it is really between 10 and 11 percent if all the
Americans who have exhausted unemployment benefits and just given up looking for
work were counted. Many polls have clearly shown that as much as 80 percent of
the American public want illegal immigration stopped and legal immigration
scaled back until those already here have had a chance to assimilate. Bush
completely ignores this because it's more important to him to get re-elected,
thinking that this new "guest worker program" will swing the Hispanic vote his
way.

I could go on and on about the problems illegal immigration has caused in
America, but I have to go take my Spanish lesson. At the rate we are going, in
the next 10 to 15 years, Spanish will probably be the official language and I
will need it to get my minimum wage job at Wal-Mart.

Sharon Lam, Hudson

Let those on welfare do the work

President Bush's new immigration proposal will grant "legal" status to people
who broke the law by "illegally" entering our country and working all this time
while paying no taxes. The proposition states that employers must be able to
prove that no Americans want to work the jobs. The new proposal further states
that these new "legal" immigrants may bring their dependents into our country as
long as they can prove they can support their families.

If these people only work jobs that "no Americans want," then why the heck
aren't some of those jobs being worked by Americans who are now sitting on their
behinds collecting welfare? I know the welfare safety net has turned into a
hammock - but this is ridiculous (and outrageous)!

Jim Mullen, Tampa

Making progress at Juvenile Justice

Re: Not very helpful, editorial, Dec. 25.

I appreciate the Times editorial support of the Department of Juvenile Justice's
proposals to further strengthen safety at Florida's juvenile detention centers
and to continue to raise the bar on professionalism for our juvenile detention
officers. These substantive proposals continue this progress, ensuring that
officers employed are capable of the challenges presented by youth who have
broken the law, while protecting public safety.

In 1999, I asked the Legislature to strengthen hiring requirements. As a result,
today no one can be considered for employment for seven years following
adjudication on a disqualifying offense, an increase of four years. Also, at my
request, the Legislature added crimes to the list of disqualifying offenses.

The proposals I submitted to the House Select Committee on Juvenile Detention
continue the strengthening of professional requirements. In addition, the
proposals call for additional resources for mental health and medical care; for
facility life-safety and security repairs and maintenance; the creation of a
team to respond to emergencies; and an annual climate review conducted by
citizen advisory boards for each center. The proposals also strengthen the
background screening and hiring process and propose psychological screening of
job candidates. The Department of Juvenile Justice provides a wide spectrum of
treatment and services to juveniles detained and committed to the department to
help them become law-abiding citizens. From school to vocational education,
counseling to specialized treatment for issues like substance abuse, mental
health and sexual offenses, the department works to restore these young people.

The department diverts less serious offenders through innovative programs like
Intensive Delinquency Diversion Services, civil citation and neighborhood
accountability boards. These investments to divert youth from the juvenile
justice system coupled with the delinquency prevention grants the department
awards to local communities have shown great results.

This year I am proposing to the Legislature a re-direction program that directs
less serious offenders and the offenders' families into a research-based therapy
program following short-term residential stabilization.

These types of strategies have allowed the department to reduce the numbers of
maximum and high-risk residential treatment beds since 1999. The overall results
of the department's balanced approach to juvenile justice are clear. The public
is safer, there is less juvenile crime and more youth are staying crime-free.

W.G. "Bill" Bankhead, secretary, Florida Department

of Juvenile Justice, Tallahassee

Religion and government don't mix

Re: Robertson: God says Bush to be re-elected, Jan. 3.

This country has no history of the dominance of religion in politics and
culture. Other countries are so aware of the injustices and controlling
influences of religion through the ages that they have declared separation of
church and state and have rewritten their constitutions to ensure they remain
secular.

The history of religion in government has always been one of war and bloodshed.
Europeans are aware of this, but America's religious majority have never
experienced the atrocities and seem to think that they are God's newly chosen.
If God wants us to believe this, he will write it across the sky for everyone to
see.

Gloria Julius, St. Petersburg

The faith of the right

Re: Bible offers Democrats a political opening,

letter, Jan. 3.

The letter writer inadvertently summed up the basic difference between liberals
and conservatives, and Democrats and Republicans. He spoke of the Democrats
having an opportunity to "reclaim the high ground in this debate." Essentially,
there is no "debate" here. That's not to say there are no political aspects. Of
course there are. But to many on the right, the Bible, God, religion, however
you want to classify it, is not something to be used for political advantage.

It's just a natural part, and often a big part, of their lives. It's not that
the right is "stealing Jesus," but that they have always had Jesus, and are
trying to fend off concerted liberal and Democratic efforts to take Jesus out of
everything except inside one's own home and inside a church.

Ernest Lane, Trinity

Is that the FCOW?

Re: The sooner the better, editorial, Jan. 2.

The Bush administration has responded to the outbreak of mad cow disease with
the speed and attention it deserves, including a new, four-stage testing policy:

Stage 1: All cattle are tested.

Stage 2: Cattle that fail the test are re-tested.

Stage 3: Cattle that fail the second test are given a voucher.

Stage 4: Cattle with vouchers may elect to join a different herd.

This plan has worked so well to improve public schools, why not give it a try on
the range?

Coming soon: A plan to rebuild Iraq by reducing taxes for the wealthiest 1
percent of all Iraqi families!

Meyer Baron, Gulfport

Share your opinions

We invite readers to write to us. Letters for publication should be addressed to
Letters to the Editor, P.O. Box 1121, St. Petersburg, FL 33731. They can be sent
by fax to (727) 893-8675 or by e-mail to letters@sptimes.com (no attachments,
please).

They should be brief and must include the writer's name, address and phone
number. Please include a handwritten signature when possible.

Letters may be edited for clarity, taste and length. We regret that not all
letters can be published.

LOAD-DATE: January 10, 2004

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

SERIES: LETTERS

GRAPHIC: CARTOON, DON ADDIS; A person asks "Who needs Gitmo when we got
Gitmoon?" on the Earth while an enemy combatant detention facility sits on the
moon.

TYPE: LETTER

                    Copyright 2004 Times Publishing Company


                              143 of 302 DOCUMENTS

                         St. Petersburg Times (Florida)

                 April 9, 2004 Friday 0 South Pinellas Edition

Don't reward illegal aliens with drivers' licenses

SECTION: EDITORIAL; Pg. 15A

LENGTH: 1818 words


Re: Gov. Bush backs bill to license illegals, April 7.

Our schools are in trouble financially, senior citizens are being denied medical
benefits, the restoration of the Everglades is under siege, and what does our
governor do? He supports a bill to grant drivers' licenses to illegal aliens.

The governor supports his decision by saying safeguards will be put in place to
ensure that terrorists are not granted licenses. But, in my opinion, he misses
the point. These illegal aliens broke the laws of the United States the minute
they set foot on American soil. And what is our governor's answer to this? To
reward them with drivers' licenses, which is a document that will enable them to
get other services reserved for American citizens.

Some in favor of granting illegals licenses argue that they will then be
insured. I disagree. These people don't make enough money to be able to afford
insurance; granting them licenses will only put more of them on our roads,
leaving Americans holding the bag when they are involved in accidents.

And let's not forget poor Aurora Gomez, the illegal stopped last year for
driving with a broken taillight and no license. She continued to have no respect
for our laws even after being stopped. In the Times' original story on this
incident, it was reported that Ms. Gomez was stopped in November of last year,
and as of this February, the broken taillight still had not been fixed. Well,
she really respects our laws, right?

The answer to the problem our governor cites is not to reward illegal acts, but
rather to enforce the immigration laws that have been in effect since at least
1996. To do otherwise will just compound the problem.

Illegal immigration is costing American taxpayers a fortune, while our schools,
senior citizens and environment are suffering. Anyone interested in more
information on the subject should sign on to

numbersusa.com.

Sharon Lam, Hudson

Send them back

Re: Gov. Bush backs bill to license illegals.

While I fully realize Gov. Jeb Bush's motive, i.e. sucking up to the Hispanic
community for votes, the idea of giving illegals drivers' licenses is ludicrous.
I have a better idea. Arrest them and send them back to their country of origin.
It's bad enough that they're taking up seats in already crowded classrooms and
putting a strain on social services, not to mention taking away what jobs his
brother hasn't sent overseas.

If they want to become U.S. citizens, (and learn to speak our language while
they're at it) then let them do it the way millions of other immigrants have in
the past. Let them earn the privilege instead of rewarding them for their
illegal behavior.

Bob Dalzell, St. Petersburg

What about the rule of law?

Re: Gov. Bush backs bill to license illegals.

I have some questions. Illegal immigrants are federal criminals, right? Aiding
and abetting federal criminals is a federal offense, right? Our country was
founded to be governed by the rule of law, right? Our elected officials take an
oath to uphold our Constitution and the rule of law, right? If these
observations are true, then why aren't our law enforcement agents prosecuting
those who aid and abet illegal immigrants, including those who employ illegals
and any elected official who wants to grant illegals a driver's license?

Of course, maybe I don't understand whom the rule of law pertains to? Maybe it
does not pertain to those who circumvent it for a monetary or political gain? If
this is true, then I, too, should be able to hire an illegal couple as live-ins
to serve as groundskeeper and maid. Compensation to include a "Bush approved"
driver's license - right?

Ray J. Bath, Clearwater

Condoning illegal behavior

Re: Gov. Bush backs bill to license illegals.

How disingenuous of Gov. Jeb Bush to state, "We shouldn't allow them to come
into the country to begin with, but once they're here, what do you do?"

Who is the "we" here? Who was the governor when many of the terrorists
responsible for the attacks of 9/11 were first documented by the state of
Florida, in violation of the 1999 law requiring "legal presence"? If I read the
article correctly, the governor is blaming the strict enforcement of that law
for causing hundred of thousands of illegal aliens to continue to break more
laws by driving illegally.

Rep. Gus Barreiro, R-Miami Beach, is worried because these people who come to
this country illegally are "in limbo." Who put them in limbo?

Sen. Rudy Garcia, R-Hialeah, is concerned apparently because some businesses
might lose out on cheap labor. Wait! Hiring someone who shouldn't be here, who
shouldn't be driving a car, and who doesn't have insurance shouldn't be allowed
to cut the front of the line to live in this state and country. Does anyone out
there think this type of immigration policy is either fair or safe?

What really worries me is that out of 14 state senators who voted on this so
far, only Sen. Mike Haridopolos, R-Melbourne, sees the important issue: "We'd be
condoning illegal behavior." That's something Gov. Bush finds easier to do than
upholding his oath of office.

Laurence F. Wydetic, Valrico

Are we just giving up?

Re: Gov. Bush backs bill to license illegals.

I think passage of this bill is a big mistake. I totally disagree with Gov. Jeb
Bush. It sounds as though we are just giving up on trying to control the illegal
immigrant situation. We'll just put our heads in the sand and the problem will
go away. I thought we were trying to discourage any more illegals from coming
into the state. This sounds like an open invitation.

We need to stop this now and take a step to control who comes across our
borders.

Michael King, St. Petersburg

A most memorable patriotic moment

On April 2 at the U.S. Central Command, MacDill Air Force Base, our family sat
in the main conference room among generals, foreign and American. We had been
given the honor of witnessing the promotion ceremony of our beloved friend Elio
Castellano. Congratulations to the new Col. Elio Castellano, U.S. Air Force
Reserve, and his wonderful family.

As we listened to generals and other military personnel speak on the many
accomplishments of Col. Castellano, we knew we were sitting among the most
intelligent, knowledgeable, intense, dedicated and patriotic men and women of
the military.

In light of all that has happened in the past few days in Iraq, it is our
opinion that we are in good hands. As grateful American citizens, we thank Col.
Castellano, his family and all involved in the military who make many sacrifices
for us. We thank all at Central Command for the humbling experience and a most
memorable patriotic moment.

John, Cathleen, Caitlin and Brendan Stack, St. Petersburg

Public relations military spending

Re: AirFest 2004.

Blue Angels may provide top fun for oohing and gasping spectators of air shows
that are being staged at various times throughout the country. But why we
continue to stage these extremely costly "entertainments" when we desperately
need to reduce our deficit is beyond me.

These awe-inspiring maneuvers in the skies over our cities cause thousands of
people to be entrapped for miles in their cars wasting today's costly gasoline.
Our military minds should be solely working on how to stop all the body bags
that are still returning home, as well as the thousands of our grievously
injured fine soldiers returning home maimed forever. Time, money and effort must
be expended to prevent this from continuing.

People who are truly concerned about our rising government costs should, at this
time of deficit spending, consider stopping this unneeded public relations
military spending. We definitely need to consider strengthening the United
States right now!

Ken W. Poulsen, Tarpon Springs

Weapons on parade

Re: AirFest 2004.

It was interesting to read of the great success of the air show at MacDill Air
Force Base this past weekend. Sadly, the event is an unfortunate celebration of
America's greatest technological accomplishment - the ability to create the
world's most advanced weapons.

The joy of flight imagined by the Wright brothers could not have included the
thrill of aerial bombardment enjoyed by so many people around the world who get
the opportunity to see American air power at work rather than at play.

What kind of world would it be if our air superiority were not paraded around
like a Soviet May Day parade? Perhaps a more peaceful one?

Jude Michael Ryan, San Antonio, Fla.

LLearn more about drug discount card

Re: New drug discount cards on the way,

March 26.

We are working hard to educate Americans about the new Medicare-Approved Drug
Discount Card program - to explain options, provide price comparison information
and protect against fraud.

Beginning in June, seniors and disabled individuals will be able to enroll in
the Medicare-Approved Drug Discount Card program to get discounts of 10-25
percent off their prescriptions.

In Florida, these drug cards will give immediate relief to more than 800,000
residents who do not have drug coverage, before the drug benefit is implemented
in 2006. Individuals with incomes below $12,569 and couples below $16,862 will
qualify for $600 to put on their cards - almost 590,000 Florida residents will
be eligible.

We have launched an aggressive education effort to inform people with Medicare
about this new program. I would encourage anyone with questions to call our
toll-free 24-hour helpline 1-800-633-4227 or visit  http://www.Medicare.gov -
the official information sources.

To help select a drug card, a Web tool that compares prices among cards will
soon be accessible through  http://www.Medicare.gov. People can input their
medications to find out about discounted prices and card sponsors in their
community.

A booklet with step-by-step guidance for comparing cards, along with eligibility
and enrollment information will be mailed to every beneficiary late this month.
The Social Security Administration will mail a separate letter to those with low
incomes who may be eligible for the $600.

Finally, if we receive information about fraudulent cards, we will work with the
HHS Office of the Inspector General and law enforcement agencies to stop it. If
you suspect fraud, call 1-800-447-8477 or e-mail HHSTips@oig.hhs.gov.

For the first time, a Medicare prescription drug benefit will be available - and
we're working hard to make sure seniors and the disabled are fully educated
about their new options.

Mark B. McClellan, M.D., Ph.D., administrator, Centers

for Medicare and Medicaid Services, U.S. Department of

Health and Human Services, Washington

LOAD-DATE: April 9, 2004

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

SERIES: LETTERS

GRAPHIC: CARTOON, DON ADDIS; A man tells his friend that Mayor Rick Baker is a
disguised cell phone tower.

TYPE: LETTER

                    Copyright 2004 Times Publishing Company


                              144 of 302 DOCUMENTS

                         St. Petersburg Times (Florida)

              August 25, 2001, Saturday, 0 South Pinellas Edition

Offering amnesty to illegal aliens is troubling

SECTION: EDITORIAL; LETTERS; Pg. 15A

LENGTH: 1777 words



I am totally upset that the public is not being informed about the crucially
important debate within the Bush administration and Congress over "amnesty" for
millions of men and women who deliberately have come to our country illegally.

I was under the impression that we were a nation of laws that were enforced.
However, we now see people about to be rewarded, once again, for breaking our
immigration laws while millions of others want to enter legally.

President Bush is clearly tending toward an amnesty for perhaps 8-million
illegals (now euphemistically called "undocumented workers" - so much more
appealing!) primarily for the political opportunism of votes.

How many Americans remember that in 1986 under President Ronald Reagan, some
3-million illegal aliens were given amnesty? That was supposed to solve the
problem and close the border. But it only invited millions more in the hope that
they, too, could become guests and eventually be "regularized." The gift of
legalization means the handing over of considerable political and social power
in our country of 284-million to unknown numbers of unknown people who have made
no commitment to the pledge of allegiance, our laws and culture.

As a nation we are giving away our sovereignty by not defending our borders and
giving legalization to men and women who have not officially fulfilled any of
the requirements for American residency or citizenship. This action is a
betrayal of the millions of men and women in the armed services who fought and
died for their country.

Should President Bush persuade Congress to approve this second wide-ranging
amnesty, there will be a predicted influx of 30-million more "illegals" over the
next 20 years.

These numbers concern me now because it will be the legacy we leave our
grandchildren. I hope the numbers concern you.

C.J. Bjornberg, Clearwater

A disservice to Mickie Mashburn

Re: More roommates than soul mates, Aug. 18.

I was shocked and disappointed when I saw your headline about Mickie Mashburn's
efforts to seek the pension benefits of her partner. I found your coverage of
the issue to be inflammatory and biased. After all, this story would not have
seen the light of day if this were a heterosexual marriage and the deceased
spouse had been accused of being unfaithful.

You turned a very serious issue about fairness and equality into a tabloid-type
scandal. In what appears to be an effort to discredit a 10-year committed
relationship, you instead brought dishonor to Lois Marrero's name. Did you stop
for a moment to think how painful such allegations would be to Mickie and the
couple's friends? I guess the rules of basic decency don't apply for all
couples.

I personally knew Lois and Mickie and your portrayal of their relationship is
far from what any of their co-workers and friends observed on a daily basis.
Lois Marrero died a hero when she laid down her life for a city she swore to
protect. Your paper should honor that memory and not attempt to soil it.

The issue that needs to be focused on now is what is fair and right for the
partner she left behind. Lois would not want her relationship discredited, and
if she were able she would be fighting to protect Mickie right now.

Remember that Brenda Marrero sat side by side with Mickie Mashburn the day after
Lois was killed. In that interview she stated that her sister was a devoted
sister, aunt and partner, as she nodded her head toward Mickie. That was the
description she gave of how she wanted her sister to be remembered and that is
the Lois Marrero I will remember despite your efforts to change public support.

Shar C. Ishee, Tampa

Perpetrating bigotry

Re: More roommates than soul mates, Aug. 18.

Mickie Mashburn's filing for survivor benefits in the death of her life partner,
Lois Marrero, was the important news of the day. Instead of reporting on that
story, your paper chose instead to insinuate that their relationship was somehow
invalid by introducing this allegation of infidelity.

Would you be raising the issue if Lois had been a heterosexual male officer and
Mickie his wife? I doubt it.

Once again Mickie Mashburn is victimized by a double standard. Did it ever occur
to you how painful it would be to read such things about your spouse upon his or
her own death?

If infidelity were the standard for awarding pensions, or other survivor rights,
many a widow and widower would need to return their pension checks.

What is the real purpose of the article? Was it to deflect the public sympathy
from Mickie, because she is not interpreted as a "spouse" according to past
interpretations of the word? Is it the result of those jockeying to reap a
financial benefit while Mickie is left to pay the bills in the wake of Lois'
tragic death?

The fact is that the issue of infidelity, even if it is believed, is irrelevant.
Mickie and Lois shared a life, home and all the good and bad in a relationship
for the past 10 years. That is the only standard that need be applied when it
comes to awarding survivor benefits.

Why don't you interview people who knew Mickie and Lois as a couple and see if
they have the same opinion on the longevity and depth of their relationship, and
what Lois may have said to them about their relationship? Without that alternate
view, your article is shallow and transparent in its intent.

You aren't just reporting on the bigotry that treats some families as valuable
and others as disposable. You are perpetrating that bigotry.

L. Boeving, Valrico

A too-narrow view of Midtown

As a native of St. Petersburg who just moved six months ago, I am well aware of
the problems in "Midtown." Mary Jo Melone's attempt to use Sharon Russ' point of
view in her Aug. 16 column One woman's small voice is heard in Midtown seemed
like a ploy to justify the attitude of the majority of white St. Petersburg
toward the south side through one black woman's opinion.

As if the only problems are drugs and violence within the community, Melone
brushed off the economic degradation and the violence from white police officers
that still plague the people in this area since the riots. The sound bite she
plugged on Omali Yeshitela and "his perpetual racket" was also a blatant denial
of many African-Americans' opinions living in that community, as she didn't
offer any of his ideas of how to resolve the problems in south St. Petersburg.

Not only did Melone's column not touch on many things, but it turned its back on
everyone living in Midtown who believes that the people around them are trying
their best despite their situation, unlike the "self-destructive" image Melone
and Russ portray.

Overall, her column did not bring me any new insight into the problem and, in
fact, confirmed many of my ideas about the denial of people living outside the
"crime-ridden" areas. Maybe Melone's next column should be about the big voice
of the south side community and what it's trying to make people hear.

Erica Askin, Tallahassee

Don't be misled about direct instruction

        The July 31 letter to the editor, There is no "best" reading program,
presented some false information about direct instruction. The letter writer
observed that direct instruction "has demonstrated limited success at a time
when the district's current reading program is producing annual improvement in
student achievement." In another place, she indicated that "direct instruction
must be supplemented with other materials and instructional approaches to show
even limited success."

  Both these assertions are false. The American Institutes for Research did an
extensive evaluation of current schoolwide reforms to determine which worked.
The research was sponsored jointly by the American Association of School
Administrators, American Federation of Teachers, National Association of
Elementary School Principals, National Association of Secondary School
Principals and National Education Association. The report, "An Educators' Guide
to Schoolwide Reform," concluded that of the 24 models evaluated, only two had
substantial evidence of effectiveness in elementary schools. One was direct
instruction.

   There is more evidence of effectiveness for direct instruction than there is
for all other approaches combined. Currently 19 at-risk schools in Baltimore use
DI. They are far above the city average on standardized achievement tests. The
first-graders average above the 65th percentile, more than 15 percent above the
national norm. One school, City Springs, went from the lowest school in the
district (123rd of 123 schools) five years ago to eighth in 2001. Their
first-graders score at the 82nd percentile in reading, their fifth-graders at
the 68th. The school provides a stunning model of what can be achieved in
reading, language and math with undiluted direct instruction - no supplements.

    The fact is that if it is implemented according to the book, direct
instruction could achieve these kinds of results in any school - including the
lowest in Hillsborough County.

   The letter also said that direct instruction was developed "to meet the needs
of students with limited learning potential." I developed the program and can
pretty reliably guarantee you that it was designed for all kids. We worked
extensively with at-risk students who were far behind when they came to school,
but we never doubted their potential if the instructional sequences were well
designed. Or look at it like this: If direct instruction can boost the
performance of students "with limited potential to learn" to the range of the
gifted, think of what it could do with students who have more than "limited
potential to learn."

Siegfried Engelmann, senior author of direct instruction

programs, professor of education, University of Oregon

Missile envy?

Re: Pat Oliphant's editorial cartoon, Aug. 21.

Ahem! Maybe I am reading more into Pat Oliphant's cartoon than was originally
intended. But gee wiz!! What is a person supposed to think of when a very limp
nuclear missile is pictured, along with a reference to Bob Dole - who just
happens to be a spokesperson for Viagra?

JoAnn Lee Frank, Clearwater

Share your opinions

We invite readers to write to us. Letters for publication should be addressed to
Letters to the Editor, P.O. Box 1121, St. Petersburg, FL 33731.

They can be sent by e-mail to letters@sptimes.com or by fax to (727) 893-8675.

They should be brief and must include the writer's name, address and phone
number. Please include a handwritten signature when possible.

Letters may be edited for clarity, taste and length. We regret that not all
letters can be published.


LOAD-DATE: August 25, 2001

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: LETTER

                    Copyright 2001 Times Publishing Company


                              145 of 302 DOCUMENTS

                         St. Petersburg Times (Florida)

             November 28, 2001, Wednesday, 0 South Pinellas Edition

Sweep's size startles even Justice Dept.

SOURCE: Compiled from Times Wires

SECTION: NATIONAL; AMERICA STRIKES; Pg. 8A

LENGTH: 802 words

DATELINE: WASHINGTON



Attorney General John Ashcroft said Tuesday that the Justice Department has
charged 104 people on criminal violations - more than twice the number
previously made public - in its sweeping terrorism investigation.

An additional 548 people are being held on immigration violations such as
overstaying their visas, illegally entering the country or using fake passports.

None of the 652 people facing immigration and federal criminal charges has been
charged with plotting the Sept. 11 terrorist strikes on the World Trade Center
and the Pentagon.

But Ashcroft said he believes some of the people in custody are connected to the
19 hijackers who slammed commercial planes into those buildings and a field in
rural Pennsylvania, killing more than 4,000 people.

Of the 104 people facing criminal charges, 55 are in custody. The remainder are
being sought or have been released on bond. Charges for 11 others were not made
public because they are sealed under court order.

The increase in the number of suspects charged with criminal violations caught
the Justice Department by surprise. But it reflects the fast-moving pace of the
investigation, said Mindy Tucker, spokesperson for the Justice Department. "It's
moving very quickly and it's very fluid," she said.

An unspecified number of people also are being held as material witnesses in the
terrorism investigation. Federal law prohibits identifying them.

Ashcroft singled out a handful of the suspects for their alleged ties to the
hijackers and bin Laden.

He said the phone number of Mohamed Abdi of Virginia was found in the car that
one of the hijackers left at Dulles Airport. And Faisal M. Al Salmi of Arizona
is charged with lying about his association with Hani Hanjour, one of the
hijackers.

The list includes well-known suspects such as Lotfi Raisi, who is suspected of
teaching four of the hijackers how to fly in Arizona. Raisi is being held in
London for lying on his pilot's license application about a previous knee
injury.

But the list also includes suspects who have been dismissed from suspicion in
the Sept. 11 attacks.

Ashcroft made the comments against a backdrop of growing concern on Capitol Hill
about the secrecy of the investigation. Several groups have criticized the
Justice Department for holding people on minor charges without explaining how
they are connected to the terrorist plot.

Members of Congress Tuesday raised the first serious challenges to steps the
Bush administration is taking to fight terrorism, including asking whether
secret military tribunals are appropriate and if withholding information on
hundreds of detainees makes sense.

Pointedly raising questions for the first time since Sept. 11, leading senators
set a week of hearings on many of the issues beginning today, and called on
Ashcroft to testify - an indication they think he may have gone too far and
possibly abrogated constitutional rights.

Responding to the list, the American Civil Liberties Union said Ashcroft did not
go far enough.

"By releasing fragmentary information today, Attorney General Ashcroft finally
seems to have recognized that who the government chooses to arrest and hold in
custody cannot be kept a secret under our system of government," said Tim Edgar,
legislative counsel to the ACLU.

In a memo Tuesday to the attorney general, Amnesty International called for full
disclosure and accused the government of mistreating some detainees.

"Amnesty International is concerned that many of those detained during the 11
September sweeps are held in harsh conditions, some of which may violate
international standards for humane treatment," the organization said in the
memo, citing several allegations of mistreatment.

The arrests are necessary to prevent future terrorist attacks, Ashcroft said.
The suggestion that the rights of those being detained have been lost in the war
on terrorism is "simply not true," he said.

Meanwhile, the Justice Department has quietly tightened the rules that govern
the detention of foreigners, letting the government keep a foreigner behind bars
even after a federal immigration judge has ordered him to be released for lack
of evidence.

The change allows the Immigration and Naturalization Service to automatically
set aside any release order given by an immigration judge in cases where the
service believes an immigrant is a danger to the community or a flight risk. To
have the ruling set aside, the service must simply file a form announcing that
it plans to appeal the decision to the Board of Immigration Appeals. If that
board orders the alien released, the INS also can set aside that order under the
new regulation by taking the case to the attorney general.

The new rule, signed by Ashcroft on Oct. 26, went into effect on Oct. 29 with no
public notice.


LOAD-DATE: November 28, 2001

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: PHOTO; John Ashcroft

                    Copyright 2001 Times Publishing Company


                              146 of 302 DOCUMENTS

                         St. Petersburg Times (Florida)

               April 20, 2002, Saturday, 0 South Pinellas Edition

Stowaways survive week in hot cargo container

SOURCE: Compiled from Staff and Wire Reports

SECTION: CITY & STATE; AROUND THE STATE; Pg. 8B

LENGTH: 1016 words

DATELINE: MIAMI; TALLAHASSEE; CAPE CANAVERAL; WEWAHITCHKA; HOLLYWOOD, Fla.



Eleven Dominican stowaways were rescued from a cargo container where they had
spent seven days in more than 100-degree heat.

Three men were listed in stable condition Friday at Palm Springs General
Hospital. The eight others were at the Krome Detention Center and will be
returned to the Dominican Republic, a U.S. Border Patrol spokesman said.

A shipping employee heard yelling Thursday from inside the 40-foot container.
Fire crews found the men severely dehydrated, several foaming at the mouth.

"This was a coffin," Hialeah fire spokesman Stanley Stark said. "If they hadn't
been found, we would have had people dead in there."

The men told officials they hid in the container in Santo Domingo April 12,
expecting a three-day voyage. But the ship made another stop and didn't leave
for Miami until Sunday.

The men had brought crackers, fruit and water - which quickly ran out - and
sharp tools and crowbars that they used to poke a fist-sized hole in the
container's metal seal for air.

Special session call still hanging on negotiations

TALLAHASSEE - Lawmakers must wait a little longer to find out when Gov. Jeb Bush
will call them back for a special session.

Bush told a group of business leaders Thursday he hoped to announce the session
Friday to approve a budget, update education laws and determine job duties for
the new state chief financial officer.

But on Friday, Bush shook his head when asked if an announcement was on its way.
"I don't know yet," he answered.

Lawmakers described the delay as a "bump in the road" rather than a major
political meltdown in discussions among Bush, Senate President John McKay and
House Speaker Tom Feeney. "It's probably someone deciding after the sale that
they want floor mats," said Sen. Tom Lee, R-Brandon.

Several House committees tentatively scheduled meetings for the week of April 29
in case lawmakers return that week.

"Atlantis' back from start of big construction project

CAPE CANAVERAL - Space shuttle Atlantis and its seven astronauts landed at
Kennedy Space Center Friday after installing the first girder in what eventually
will be a 356-foot framework at the international space station.

During their 11-day voyage, the astronauts, led by shuttle commander Michael
Bloomfield, hooked up a 44-foot girder and its complex wiring and plumbing and
put a railroad in place that will be used to haul equipment.

Additional missions extending into 2004 will produce an aluminum framework that
will support four sets of solar wings to power laboratories planned by Japanese
and European space agencies.

Jerry Ross, a 54-year-old retired Air Force colonel from Crown Point, Ind.,
became the first astronaut to fly seven times in space and held onto his title
as NASA's most experienced spacewalker, with his eighth and ninth excursions.

Prison camp guards fired; allegedly abused inmate

WEWAHITCHKA - State officials fired three guards from a North Florida prison
work camp Friday, accusing them of abusing an inmate.

The dismissals follow a yearlong investigation by the Department of Corrections
into charges that Lt. Carmen McLemore, Sgt. Christopher Wood and Officer Donald
Guillot mistreated inmate William Webb at Gulf Forestry Camp in July 2000.

According to DOC documents, the officers slapped Webb while questioning him
about contraband at the camp, then took him outside and handcuffed his arms
behind him around a small tree. McLemore then allegedly sprayed Webb with what
Webb believed was a chemical agent, not issued by the department. DOC documents
say Webb was hit numerous times while cuffed to the tree and left there an
"extended period of time."

McLemore, a 12-year DOC veteran, is also a Gulf County commissioner. He refused
to comment Friday. Phone calls to the homes of Wood, also a 12-year veteran, and
Guillot, who began work six months before the incident, were not answered.

Webb has since completed his sentence for robbery and burglary. His whereabouts
could not be determined Friday.

"We have no tolerance for abuse of inmates in our custody," Corrections
Secretary Michael W. Moore said Friday.

Ruling against state keeps FCAT records quest alive

TALLAHASSEE - A Pinellas County man who sued to get his son's testing records
won the first round when a Leon County judge rejected a Department of Education
motion to dismiss his lawsuit.

The decision means the case can go forward. The plaintiff's lawyer said it also
means the judge rejected the state's main arguments for preventing the release
of the FCAT testing records.

"There's no new legal argument," said Palm Harbor attorney Mark Herdman. "It was
all in the motion to dismiss."

DOE spokeswoman JoAnn Carrin responded that the judge's decision should not be
interpreted as a comment on the merit of the case. "We feel confident the tests
will remain secure," Carrin said.

Gunfire, child with gun near school spur search

HOLLYWOOD, Fla. - An off-duty police officer heard shots and saw a child with a
gun running toward a middle school Friday, prompting a search of students and
their belongings.

"No one got shot, but there was someone shooting out there," said Detective
Carlos Negron.

No weapon was found in the search of McNicol Middle School students, police
said. Some nervous parents came and withdrew their children.

A police officer was at home when she heard shots, ran outside and saw a boy
with a handgun running toward the school. Officials sealed off the building.

Classes started about an hour late at McNicol, which has an enrollment of 1,680.

Bush signs law regulating movers operating in state

TALLAHASSEE - Gov. Jeb Bush signed a bill Friday that subjects household movers
to state regulation.

The law will apply only to companies that move people between Florida locations.
Interstate movers are federally regulated.

The bill creates a regulatory program in the Department of Agriculture and
Consumer Services; sets out certain qualifications for movers; and requires
movers to provide written cost estimates and contracts. It takes effect July 1.

- Staff, wire reports


LOAD-DATE: April 20, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DISTRIBUTION: CITY & STATE; METRO & STATE; TAMPA & STATE

GRAPHIC: PHOTO, ASSOCIATED PRESS; Astronaut Jerry Ross and Michael Bloomfield

TYPE: DIGEST

                    Copyright 2002 Times Publishing Company


                              147 of 302 DOCUMENTS

                         St. Petersburg Times (Florida)

                            May 01, 2002, Wednesday

Policies let illegal aliens avoid the law

SECTION: LARGO TIMES; LETTERS; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 793 words



Re: Mexicans welcome SunTrust ID policy, story, April 12.

The article clearly states, "SunTrust's decision will affect hundred of
thousands of illegal immigrants" and also states that SunTrust will accept
matriculas as ID.

These (creative) matriculas are called "documents" by Mexico's President Vicente
Fox - hey, the instant solution to that minor problem of "undocumented persons."

 No more worries about international treaties, national laws, passports, visas
and other legal claptrap.

In simple terms, President Fox wants to send to us those Mexican citizens that
Mexico can't support. He loves them only for the "gringo" dollars they return to
Mexico ($ 9.2-billion last year; put that in our balance of payments equation)
and the number of illegal family members they take into that big welfare state
in the north.

Oh, yes, the other forms of ID accepted by SunTrust are easily obtainable, too
(anybody can get voter registration when they pick up a driver's license), so
why does SunTrust bother to require any ID from illegal aliens? Of course, they
will still require ID from U.S. citizens.

Regardless of all the excuses being made (SunTrust wants to make a profit;
do-gooders want illegal aliens to be safe and comfortable; businesses want cheap
labor; politicians want Hispanic votes), the truth is that all these people are
aiding, abetting and rewarding illegal aliens in continued violation of U.S.
laws. And some web of convoluted thinking makes them think that U.S. citizens
and legal immigrants have a moral obligation to obey U.S. laws.

I again ask the question: Can you truly believe that all of these Mexican
nationals (decent people, I am assured) will become law-abiding U.S. citizens,
when they get what they want by breaking U.S. laws? You and I break U.S. laws
and we go to jail.

R.J. Radford, Clearwater

Voters already have

spoken for library

Re: Decision on new Largo library needs to be made by voters, letter, April 9.

Ms. Zampieri objects to the new library project approved (unanimously) by the
Largo City Commission. She complains that "a project of this size and cost needs
to be approved by the people"' by referendum.

She will be pleased (perhaps) to learn that indeed this project has been
approved by popular referendums - at least twice, and perhaps three or four
times.

To explain:

Most - some $ 19-million - of the new library's capital cost is drawn from
Largo's allocation of the Penny for Pinellas tax referendum, which was
overwhelmingly approved by the voters.

The balance of capital cost is projected to be raised by growth in the Largo tax
base due to recent annexations to the city of Largo, all of which were approved
(in referendums) by the voters in those new areas.

Ms. Zampieri, please know that Largo's commitment to an excellent library is a
vital investment in growth, both for individuals and the community, and
especially for our children and young people. If you will withhold judgment for
now and observe closely the positive results that will be generated by the new
library, perhaps you will have a different assessment in a few short years.

J.B. Butler, Largo

Drive-through rules

leave a bad taste

I am a local paramedic who works in Pinellas County. I was working on the night
of April 11 at about 10:15 p.m. I had been working for several hours without a
break and my partner and I were getting very hungry. We were finally able to go
get something to eat at a Burger King located on Gulf-to-Bay Boulevard.

When we arrived, the dining room was closed to the public but the drive-through
was still open. We were not able to fit our emergency vehicle into the
drive-through due to the low clearance. As we approached the drive-through
window, the staff stated that we had to drive through. When we told them that we
were not able to, they went to get their manager. The manager then came to the
window and stated it was against company policy to serve walk-ups.

We were very hungry and they refused us the right to buy something to eat just
because we couldn't fit our emergency vehicle through their drive-through. They
had the ability to serve us as paying customers but turned us away. That kind of
service I can do without.

Rufus Lowman Jr., Largo

Bravo, Kiwanis, for

teaching kids to swim

I wanted to comment on the April 14 article, Kiwanis Club to make kid a swimmer.
I think that the Kiwanis Club is a doing a wonderful thing by teaching little
kids to learn how to swim through their Every Child A Swimmer program. I think
that it is even better because it is free. Because we live in an area where
little kids are drowning because they don't know how to swim, it is important
that every child knows how to swim.

Kyle Blount, age 12, Largo


LOAD-DATE: May 1, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DISTRIBUTION: LARGO TIMES; CLEARWATER TIMES; NORTH PINELLAS TIMES

TYPE: LETTER

                    Copyright 2002 Times Publishing Company


                              148 of 302 DOCUMENTS

                         St. Petersburg Times (Florida)

              January 11, 2001, Thursday, 0 South Pinellas Edition

Chavez failed on ideology

SECTION: EDITORIAL; EDITORIALS; Pg. 14A

LENGTH: 387 words



Was it charity or exploitation? Only former labor secretary-designate Linda
Chavez and Marta Mercado - the illegal immigrant from Guatemala who spent the
better part of two years in Chavez's home doing chores and receiving occasional
payment - know for sure. Even so, Chavez's nomination may have survived this
ambiguous relationship had it not been for her ideological hostility to some of
the laws a labor secretary must enforce.

Ever since Zoe Baird was bounced out of contention as Bill Clinton's attorney
general because she failed to pay taxes on her illegal alien household help,
aspiring government officials have been on notice that failure to follow labor,
immigration and tax laws for domestics could spell political death.

Chavez insists the arrangement with Mercado wasn't employer-employee but an act
of kindness - sheltering a battered woman with nowhere to go. But if that's
true, why was she so anxious to keep the situation a secret? She failed
initially to inform Bush's transition team about this humanitarian gesture and
reportedly told a neighbor who employed Mercado as a babysitter that she
intended not to disclose anything about Mercado during any FBI background
checks, implying that her neighbor shouldn't either.

Chavez's lack of candor raises legitimate suspicions about the true nature of
Mercado's work around the house as well as concerns about Chavez's judgment. If
her first instinct when hard, troubling questions are raised about her personal
conduct is to shield information, Chavez doesn't belong in a high office of
public trust. Moreover, a basic prerequisite for labor secretary should be
respect for and adherence to the laws you are responsible for administering.

As a syndicated columnist, Chavez has had plenty of opportunity to speak out on
the nation's labor policies, and she's done so by regularly attacking them. She
is on record as opposing the minimum wage law and has expressed general disdain
for organized labor. Her choice as labor secretary was a particularly
provocative one, raising questions about the enforcement of wage and hour
regulations, occupational safety and health standards and workers' rights.

On his next pass, the president-elect should look for someone who actually
values the work of the department he or she is about to run.


LOAD-DATE: January 12, 2001

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: BLACK AND WHITE PHOTO; Linda Chavez

TYPE: EDITORIAL

                    Copyright 2001 Times Publishing Company


                              149 of 302 DOCUMENTS

                         St. Petersburg Times (Florida)

               August 13, 2002 Tuesday 4 State / Suncoast Edition

Orlando police chief quits, says he'll take another job

SOURCE: Compiled from Wire Reports

SECTION: METRO & STATE; Pg. 5B

LENGTH: 336 words

DATELINE: ORLANDO; WEST PALM BEACH; MIAMI


Police Chief Jerry Demings is stepping down and will be replaced by an official
with the Sanford Police Department.

Demings,  Orlando's first black police chief, served in the post four years and
is a 21-year veteran of the department. Demings said he has another job lined
up, but wouldn't say what it is.

Michael McCoy, a former second-in-command with Orlando police and the
second-highest ranking official in the Sanford department, was selected Saturday
to replace Demings.

Court rejects unequal

workers death benefits

WEST PALM BEACH - An appeals court has overturned a state law that limited death
benefits for survivors of undocumented workers to half those paid documented
workers' beneficiaries.

The 1st District Court of Appeal in Tallahassee ruled last month that employers
must pay equitable amounts of workers compensation benefits to relatives of
undocumented workers, even if the beneficiaries live outside the United States.

Relatives of U.S. documented workers received up to $100,000 after the death of
a worker on the job. The previous state law capped benefits for undocumented
workers at $50,000.

Five survive five hours

in ocean without life vests

MIAMI - A passing boater who heard screams in the night rescued two people who
had been treading water for five hours. Three other shipwreck survivors,
including a 9-year-old boy, were rescued 90 minutes later by the Coast Guard.

The four men - one a Miami police officer - and the boy were dumped in the ocean
30 miles south of Miami late Sunday when their fishing boat sank, officials
said. They were not wearing life vests.

Rolando Diaz, 37, Rolando Diaz Jr., 9, and Abel Cano, 59, all of New York,
Aristides Paulino, 40, the police officer, and Cesar Santana, 43, also of Miami,
all were treated or examined aboard the Coast Guard cutter and released soon
after being brought ashore.

"It's a miracle that they were found with no injuries," said Coast Guard
spokesman Luis Diaz.

- Wire reports

LOAD-DATE: August 13, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DISTRIBUTION: METRO & STATE; TAMPA & STATE

                    Copyright 2002 Times Publishing Company


                              150 of 302 DOCUMENTS

                         St. Petersburg Times (Florida)

                June 10, 2004 Thursday 0 South Pinellas Edition

2 migrant workers killed when van rolls over

SOURCE: Compiled from Wire Reports

SECTION: CITY & STATE; Pg. 5B

LENGTH: 157 words

DATELINE: PORT ST. LUCIE


Two migrant workers were killed and another was critically injured when an
overcrowded van carrying 11 people rolled over on Interstate 95, the Florida
Highway Patrol said.

The accident came two months after a van rollover crash in nearby Fort Pierce
killed nine migrant farm workers on their way home from work in citrus groves.

The Ford Aerostar van, designed to hold about seven passengers, was traveling to
North Carolina when it flipped about 9 p.m. Tuesday, said FHP Lt. Tim Frith.

Two men died at the scene, and another was flown to a Melbourne hospital with
critical injuries, Frith said. A fourth man was in serious condition Wednesday
afternoon at an area hospital.

None of the men had driver's licenses, and only a few had identification.

Immigration authorities will help sort out the men's identities.

Most were from Guatemala but lived and worked in Palm Beach County, Frith said.

- Compiled from Times wires.

LOAD-DATE: June 10, 2004

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DISTRIBUTION: CITY & STATE; METRO & STATE; TAMPA & STATE

SERIES: FLORIDA BRIEFLY

TYPE: DIGEST

                    Copyright 2004 Times Publishing Company


                              151 of 302 DOCUMENTS

                         St. Petersburg Times (Florida)

                           September 24, 2004 Friday

Group accused of harvesting exploited plant

BYLINE: DUANE BOURNE

SECTION: HERNANDO TIMES; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 295 words


Another group of migrant workers has been caught picking saw palmetto seeds in
the Chassahowitzka Wildlife Management Area.

On Wednesday, eight migrant workers from Clewiston, ages 19 to 52, received
citations for harvesting a commercially exploited plant, a first-degree
misdemeanor punishable by up to a year imprisonment. They were also ordered to
appear in Hernando County court in Brooksville for arraignment on Oct. 20.

During the past two weeks, the Sheriff's Office has issued numerous citations
and arrested a number of migrant workers who apparently traveled to Hernando
County from surrounding areas to harvest the plant.

On Sept. 14, authorities cited 16 illegal immigrants from Immokalee, Collier
County, after stopping a suspicious white pickup  at Zebrafinch Avenue and U.S.
19.

Three days later, authorities returned to Zebrafinch Avenue and arrested six
workers from Immokalee who, according to the report, thought that previous
citations were simply warnings and continued harvesting the seeds without
permission.

The recent incident occurred on Yellowthroat Avenue near Ramsey Road in
northwest Hernando County, just south of the Citrus County border.

A sheriff's deputy patrolling the area noticed several people walking in and out
of a field carrying bundles of seeds about 1:30 p.m. Wednesday.

In the last two cases, about 200 pounds of saw palmetto shrubs were left behind.

The state protects native plant species that are either endangered, threatened
or commercially exploited.

The fan-shaped leaves contain a compound that can be used medically to reduce
the effects of prostate cancer. Harvesters need permission from the state and/or
the landowner.

Duane Bourne can be reached at (352) 754-6114 or dbourne@sptimes.com.

LOAD-DATE: September 24, 2004

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                    Copyright 2004 Times Publishing Company


                              152 of 302 DOCUMENTS

                         St. Petersburg Times (Florida)

               October 08, 2001, Monday, 0 South Pinellas Edition

Migrant workers sue citrus company for wages

SOURCE: Compiled from Staff and Wire Reports

SECTION: CITY & STATE; BRIEFLY; Pg. 3B

LENGTH: 417 words

DATELINE: FORT MYERS; ST. PETERSBURG



More than 100 migrant farm workers are suing an Arcadia citrus company, saying
they were not paid their federally mandated wages.

The suit, filed in federal court on Friday, alleges 112 Mexican workers were
underpaid while they picked fruit for Sorrells Brothers Packing during the  past
two years.

The workers were guaranteed wages of $ 7.66 an hour, but received $ 5 an hour or
less, based on production, attorney Gregory Schell said.

A federal law requires such employees, who are brought to the United States to
make up for labor shortages as guest workers, to be paid the average wage of
other state farm laborers.

More than $ 250,000 is owed in back wages, Schell said.

"The abuse of migrant workers in this case was severe and pervasive," Schell
said. "Although the guest worker program is often depicted as providing foreign
workers with more protection than farm workers, that is not the case here."

The workers were not reimbursed for their transportation costs, another
violation of the law, Schell said. Nine workers in the suit also said they were
fired without cause in 1999.

No trial date has been set. Calls placed to Sorrells Brothers Packing on
Saturday seeking comment were not immediately returned.

Boy hurt in crash

in stable condition

ST. PETERSBURG - A 7-year-old boy was in stable condition Sunday, the day after
his mother's car slammed into the back of a Pinellas Suncoast Transit Authority
bus.

Steven Landis was hospitalized at All Children's Hospital with head and internal
injuries.

The bus was stopped about 8:30 p.m. Friday in the eastbound curb lane of 38th
Avenue N just east of 26th Street N when a 1988 Chevrolet Corsica driven by the
boy's mother, Kiara Whiteman, hit the vehicle, police said.

Whiteman, 29, was charged with driving under the influence causing serious
bodily injury.

Power boat racer

thrown from boat, injured

ST. PETERSBURG - A racer was seriously injured Sunday when he was ejected from
his 27-foot boat, Gecko Imported Tequila, in Tampa Bay during the 2001 American
Power Boat Association Offshore National Championships.

Throttleman Dominick Guido was in critical but stable condition at Bayfront
Medical Center in St. Petersburg.

Guido, of New Jersey, was injured when his single-engine boat spun out on Turn 2
in the middle of the race in front of thousands of spectators. Officials with
the American Power Boat Association declined to release details about the
accident late Sunday.

- Staff and wire reports


LOAD-DATE: October 10, 2001

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: DIGEST

                    Copyright 2001 Times Publishing Company


                              153 of 302 DOCUMENTS

                         St. Petersburg Times (Florida)

                          December 22, 2001, Saturday

Lawmaker vows to aid migrant workers

BYLINE: CHASE SQUIRES

SECTION: PASCO TIMES; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 677 words

DATELINE: DADE CITY



(ran PC edition)

With his words being translated into Spanish for a roomful of farm  workers,
state Rep. Frank Peterman Jr. vowed to fight new driver's license rules imposed
after the Sept. 11 terrorist attacks.

Peterman, D-St. Petersburg, scored repeated rounds of applause Thursday night
before a crowd of more than 100 as he promised to challenge the way farm workers
are paid and treated across the state and to push for changes in the new
driver's license regulations.

"Improving your lives will be on my agenda every year that I'm in Tallahassee,"
Peterman said. "We'll knock down the walls one block at a time."

In a town hall forum held in a Dade City union hall miles from Peterman's St.
Petersburg district, farm workers took turns sharing their battles with the
representative. Impassioned pleas, some tearful, were translated for Peterman,
and when the replies were translated back into Spanish, cheers rose up from the
crowd.

"This is our moment," organizer Margarita Romo told the crowd. "And we don't get
too many moments."

While wages, working conditions and substandard housing remain issues for farm
workers, the newest and among the most pressing is the change in driver's
license policies. New rules this month put added requirements on noncitizens
seeking new or renewed licenses and state identification cards. The licenses
expire when visas run out.

The changes are intended to make it harder for would-be terrorists to blend in.
At least 13 of the 19 terrorists involved in the Sept. 11 attacks had Florida ID
cards or driving permits.

But the new rules place a hardship on migrants, farm workers complained.

"If you go to get your license renewed, they take it away," Carolina Contreras
said through an interpreter. "If this is about terrorists, then why are they
going after us? What fault have we done to deserve this?"

Peterman said he was aware of the new hardships and said he would be addressing
the matter with others during the coming legislative session.

"This should not happen," he said. "Migrant workers should be able to keep their
licenses."

Peterman was in town to deliver more than 2,800 long-sleeved shirts donated by
St. Petersburg-based Full Bore Grafics. Romo said long-sleeved shirts are prized
by farm workers because they protect against scratches while workers pick
oranges, but the shirts are hard to come by at local thrift shops and are too
expensive for many to buy new.

Peterman worked with People's Gas, Full Bore and a new group called the Young
Progressive Democratic Club to find shirts and deliver them to the workers.

Peterman, who is black, said he knows what it is like to be discriminated
against and taken advantage of. He said his heart went out to farm workers last
year when he became involved in efforts to improve working conditions for people
who pick Florida's fruit and vegetable crops.

He said a bill he has introduced for the coming session is a step toward
improving the lives of farm workers. The bill, just 26 lines long, would bar
employers from charging farm workers fees for the use of equipment they need for
their jobs or for transportation to and from the job site.

He said he has discussed the measure with other lawmakers and is optimistic it
will pass this year.

Peterman said he would bring the fight for farm workers' rights to congressional
representatives and said he would extend his hand this session to Republican
state Reps. Ken Littlefield and Mike Fasano, who represent much of Pasco County
and its affected groves.

"This will be a long fight, but if we stay the course united as one body and one
group, at some point we can get it done," Peterman told the crowd. "It won't be
easy, but it's worth the fight. We are fighting for our children now and the
children who come after."

Shirts needed

Margarita Romo of Dade City's Farmworkers Self-Help organization said workers
are always in need of long-sleeved shirts. Anyone with a shirt to donate may
drop it off at the organization's headquarters, 37240 Lock St., Dade City.


LOAD-DATE: December 22, 2001

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DISTRIBUTION: PASCO TIMES

GRAPHIC: PHOTO; Rep. Frank Peterman

                    Copyright 2001 Times Publishing Company


                              154 of 302 DOCUMENTS

                         St. Petersburg Times (Florida)

                April 29, 2002, Monday, 0 South Pinellas Edition

An uncertain number

BYLINE: KRIS HUNDLEY

SECTION: BUSINESS; COVER STORY; Pg. 9E

LENGTH: 236 words



Debate over H-1B visas for foreign workers has often turned on how many to
permit into the country each year.

Congress raised the annual cap on H-1Bs from 65,000 to 115,000 in 1998 after
strong lobbying from tech industries, especially in booming Silicon Valley. In
2001, it was raised again, to 195,000, where it is slated to stay through 2003.
Rep. Tom Tancredo, a Republican from Colorado, has proposed returning the limit
to 65,000 next year. That bill is in committee.

It's widely thought there are about 600,000 H-1B workers in the United States.
But the Immigration and Naturalization Service, which is under sharp criticism
these days for lax recordkeeping, said it is unable to provide a specific number
or details, such as an up-to-date breakdown of H-1Bs by state. A spokesman for
the agency said updated statistics are available on its Web site, but the latest
numbers online are from March 2001.

A database of the labor condition applications, filed by employers with the
Department of Labor before they file an H-1B request, shows more than 400
requests from Tampa companies last year and 72 from St. Petersburg companies.

In 2002, seven Tampa companies have made such application. However, it is
impossible to estimate how many of the preliminary Labor Department applications
result in H-1B visa filings; there are typically many more Labor filings than
visa requests.

- KRIS HUNDLEY


LOAD-DATE: April 29, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                    Copyright 2002 Times Publishing Company


                              155 of 302 DOCUMENTS

                         St. Petersburg Times (Florida)

                April 29, 2002, Monday, 0 South Pinellas Edition

Discount geniuses

BYLINE: KRIS HUNDLEY

SECTION: BUSINESS; COVER STORY; Pg. 8E

LENGTH: 2518 words



Gregory Troussov is quite clear about why he has hired only Eastern European
engineers to work at his St. Petersburg software company.

"A Russian genius will cost $ 40,000 to $ 60,000," said Troussov, who has 15
employees - all from former Soviet bloc countries - at Trusoft International
Inc. "A compatible American would want $ 200,000 to $ 300,000 and probably be an
entrepreneur."

Few employers are as blunt as Troussov in acknowledging the financial incentives
of the H-1B program, which has allowed U.S. companies to recruit hundreds of
thousands of foreign workers with specialized skills. But after the economic
slowdown and the terrorist attacks on Sept. 11, the program has come under
increased scrutiny.

The Navy is considering banning foreign nationals, including H-1B workers, from
working on sensitive but unclassified information technology work.

A congressman from Colorado has proposed slashing the number of visas by
two-thirds to pre-1998 levels.

And President Bush wants to divert the $ 1,000 fee paid by visa applicants, now
used for technology training for U.S. workers, to the INS. Its proposed use?
Speeding up paperwork for foreign workers who want to become permanent
residents.

The H-1B program was created through the Immigration Act of 1990. It allows
companies to recruit not just foreign engineers but fashion models, physicians,
chefs and others with specialized talents for up to six years. Today, there are
thought to be more than 600,000 H-1B visa holders working in the United States.

In the boom times of the mid- to late 1990s, there was little opposition as
technology companies and consulting companies lobbied to raise the limit on the
number of foreign workers allowed into the United States. Employers such as
Microsoft, Motorola, Cisco Systems and Oracle - the program's biggest users -
claimed the American work force simply couldn't meet industry's demand for
technical skills.

Last year, however, the visa requests kept coming even as high-tech companies
eliminated nearly 600,000 jobs. For the fiscal year ended Sept. 30, the
Immigration and Naturalization Service received a record 342,035 H-1B
applications from employers. It approved 163,200, more than half of those for
jobs in computers and engineering.

In the quarter ended Dec. 31, 54,000 applications were received and 28,000 visas
were approved.

That makes little sense to those who have talked to engineers who are on
unemployment or have thumbed through piles of resumes from out-of-work computer
programmers.

"I can't believe they can't find skilled people right here," said Warren Rogers,
a tech recruiter in Tampa. "There's a tremendous pool of talent here now,
willing to work at reasonable prices. It's rare I get a job opening and am not
able to find somebody who fits the criteria. I don't even have to look as far as
Orlando."

Iskander Oumarov, the 27-year-old technical director at Trusoft, has worked in
St. Petersburg on an H-1B visa for four years. He said he tried to recruit U.S.
workers for two recent openings that involved working on the company's
artificial intelligence software.

"It's difficult to find people with talent and enough passion about what they're
doing," said Oumarov, who filled the vacancies with two fellow Russians. "I want
people who don't worry about working normal hours but like to talk five or six
hours straight about their work. And I'm not able to find them here."

A company such as Trusoft that depends on H-1B workers for more than 15 percent
of its work force must document that it was unable to find qualified American
workers, as do companies that have had previous Labor Department violations.
(Such proof also is required for a foreign worker to obtain a green card
permitting permanent residency.)

About a half-dozen of Trusoft's imported workers are scattered in paper-strewn
offices in the upper floors of the Snell Arcade building on Central Avenue. The
rest work at client sites.

Troussov, the company's founder, said his workplace looks like any other. "We
don't have Russian dolls sitting around or anything," he said. And he said he
would be happy to hire more Americans if they came up with exciting ideas.

"But right now all our (software) authors are from Russia and communication is a
big issue," Troussov said. "It's just more efficient if we all speak Russian."

+++Few local workplaces are as dominated by high-skilled foreign workers as
Trusoft. In the Tampa Bay area, CGI Group Inc. of Clearwater has one of the
largest contingents of H-1B employees. But Dilip Patel, vice president of the
computer consulting company, said less than 10 percent of its 3,000 workers in
the United States are on the visas. He declines to say exactly how many H-1Bs
work on CGI's Clearwater campus or for the parent company, which is
headquartered in Montreal.

Since 1998, Patel's company has filed applications with the Labor Department for
hundreds of computer-related positions paying $ 40,000 to $ 80,000 a year. Patel
said the pace of foreign recruiting slowed during the economic downturn in 2001
but may begin to pick up.

"We're seeing a definite increase in responses from our customers," Patel said.
"It's not a big boom, but there's a stronger sense of business in the pipeline."

And he insisted the company resorts to the program only because it cannot find
the talent it needs at home.

"Why would I go through all that hassle if I could get a U.S. worker?" Patel
asked. "With all the fees and processing time, it costs me more to bring a
worker from overseas."

But Bruce Hojnacki of Largo doesn't buy it. In September, he lost a programming
job after six years as a consultant with IBM. When he applied for a new position
with IBM in Raleigh, N.C., he said he was told his resume was strong and he'd be
a good fit, but they'd committed to bring in someone with an H-1B for the job.

"When the economy is good, it doesn't bother you," said Hojnacki, who worked as
an IBM consultant assigned to Eckerd Corp. with dozens of H-1B workers. "But now
is not the time to displace American IT (information technology) workers and
bring down our wages."

+++To ensure H-1B workers won't be exploited and won't undercut the wages of
U.S. employees, the program supposedly guarantees that visa holders will be paid
the prevailing wage for their occupation.

But critics say those guarantees are routinely circumvented.

According to the state, prevailing wages in the Tampa Bay area in 2000 were $
36,858 to $ 54,454 for computer programmers; $ 46,634 to $ 57,450 for systems
analysts; and $ 33,030 to $ 55,203 for database administrators. Senior systems
developers, also known as software engineers, make from $ 44,262 to $ 75,774.

Though one Tampa company filed a Labor Department application this year for a
software engineer paying more than $ 72,000, another company said it would pay a
systems analyst less than $ 17 per hour, or about $ 35,000 annually, well below
the prevailing wage.

And Hojnacki said his experience at Eckerd convinced him H-1B workers were
routinely underpaid.

"I know the subcontractors on visas, most from India, were making $ 25 to $ 30
an hour, while an American doing similar work would want $ 70 to $ 80 an hour,"
said Hojnacki, 39. "But it was extremely high according to their standard of
living. They were sending money back to support their families."

Hojnacki said his co-workers on H-1Bs had been brought to the United States by
an unidentified company that subcontracted with IBM and were not being sponsored
by IBM or Eckerd. He thinks most of them had their sponsorship transferred to
Eckerd last fall when the drugstore chain decided to bring its IT work in-house.

"I think most of the H-1Bs were rolled over and became Eckerd employees," said
Hojnacki, who said he turned down the chance to join Eckerd because he wanted to
remain with IBM. "And they probably did a little bit better there."

IBM said it couldn't comment on the wage disparity allegation without further
information on the subcontractor.

Labor Department files show Eckerd applied for 112 H-1Bs visas last year for
information technology workers, including systems analysts and senior systems
developers. All salaries were pegged at $ 36,774, less than the prevailing wage
as determined by the state.

In a statement, Eckerd declined to say how many H-1Bs were working in its IT
department, but described their salary range as "fair, equitable, competitive
within our marketplace and competitive within our industry."

A report by the General Accounting Office in September 2000 found serious flaws
in the Labor Department's review of employers' wage applications for H-1Bs.
Since the department neither verifies that the employer's figures are accurate
nor ensures those wages are paid, the program is "vulnerable to abuse," it
concluded.

Murali Krishna Devarakonda, a software engineer in Raleigh who received his
green card in August after 11 years as an H-1B, said there are many ways
employers can cheat foreign employees on wages. Most common, he said, are
consulting companies that recruit foreign workers with the promise of a steady
salary when in fact the pay is tied to project work that may not materialize.

"These "body shops' don't pay them at all or pay them less than promised," said
Devarakonda, who is on the board of Immigration Support Network, which assists
H-1B visa holders. "We hear complaints like this all the time and we pass them
on to the INS, but they're totally ill-equipped to handle them."

Even good employers have leverage over H-1B workers when it comes to pay,
Devarakonda said, because of the nature of the relationship.

"The H-1B (worker) is not going to ask for a raise because his entire legal
future is in the hands of that employer," he said. "Because you're sponsored by
the employer, you're at his mercy. And though the program has checks and
balances, they are a farce."

Devarakonda said H-1Bs are thrown into a panic when they're fired or laid off.
"They're not really illegal, but they're considered out of status," he said,
noting that the message board on his group's Web site (www.isn.org) often gets
anguished messages from H-1Bs who suddenly find themselves unemployed and fear
they will be deported. "There's a lot of gray area, and the average decent
law-abiding engineer just has no clue about these things."

Patel at CGI said his company, formerly known locally as IMRglobal, has laid off
H-1B workers, but he refused to disclose the number.

"If you notify the INS right away, they'll generally exercise discretion" in the
worker's favor, Patel said, adding that the company must offer an H-1B worker a
ticket home. He declined to say how many of CGI's foreign workers took the
company up on the offer. "If the work goes, the person may have to be laid off,
though it's a last-resort thing."

He added that the immigration process is a bit more complicated in a post-Sept.
11 world. The H-1B procedure takes more time now, Patel said. "And I can't
imagine what it would be like if I were trying to bring someone in from Saudi
Arabia," he said.

Patel said Florida's bureau of motor vehicles also has started revoking the
driver's licenses of H-1B workers the minute their visas expire, despite a
regulation that lets them stay in the country working while extension or green
card requests are pending. "I've had people spend all day trying to get their
driver's license extended," Patel said. "And the people who did all the damage
Sept. 11 had driver's licenses."

Gregory Troussov, who has built his software business with an all-foreign work
force, is puzzled that the H-1B program is considered controversial.

"Compared to all other forms of immigration, this is the most beneficial to the
long-term future of the country," Troussov said. He said Sony Europe has signed
a contract to use Trusoft's artificial intelligence software and that most of
his company's revenue comes from customers in England and Japan.

"We're bringing money into the American economy and our employees are paying
taxes here," he said. "Most of these people want to stay in the U.S. and they're
smart, educated and already have jobs."

John Miano, head of the Programmers Guild, a Summit, N.J., trade group that has
long opposed the H-1B program, doesn't expect the flow of foreign workers to be
affected at all by economic or security concerns.

"It's quite grim right now and Americans are losing their jobs because of this
program," Miano said. "But this is an issue driven by money, and the H-1Bs are a
giant source of cheap labor."

- Times researchers Caryn Baird and Cathy Wos contributed to this story. Kris
Hundley can be reached at hundley@sptimes.com or (727)892-2996.

Some H-1B employers in the Tampa Bay area

COMPANY        LOCATION   BUSINESS     NUMBER OF H-1BS  WORK FORCE

CGI Group      Clearwater computer     maximum          3,000

Inc.                      consulting   of 450           (total

                                                     U.S.)

Tech Data      Clearwater computer     not              2,200

Corp.                     reseller     available        (local)

CAE USA        Tampa      flight        14              500

Inc.                      simulators                    (local)

Soft Computer  Palm       software      30              450

Consultants    Harbor                                   (local)

Trusoft        St.        software      15              15

International  Petersburg                               (local)

Source: the companies

Who is the H-1B worker?

+Almost half are born in India.

+Average age is 28.

+72 percent are males.

+60 percent are recruited for jobs in information technology.

+Median salary is $ 45,000.

+California attracts the largest number of H-1Bs (11 percent).

+Florida has about 6 percent of H-1Bs.

Source: Immigration and Naturalization Service, September 2000

Looking for work

For the year ended Sept. 30, 2001, the INS received 342,035 applications for
H-1B visas, up more than 14 percent from the previous year. Visa requests more
than doubled in December 2000, just before the application fee doubled to $
1,000. They tapered off during the second half of the year as the recession took
hold, with a drop in applications in five of those months.

          2000      2001

October       21,801    32,885

November      23,585    38,140

December      28,489    57,733

January       32,131    37,411

February      29,877    15,682

March         28,754    22,302

April         13,344    18,992

May           21,855    19,789

June          20,493    27,161

July          14,669    28,408

August        29,151    24,732

September     34,897    18,800

Source: Immigration and Naturalization Service


LOAD-DATE: April 29, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: PHOTO; PHOTO, CHERIE DIEZ; CHART, (2); Iskander Oumarov's H-1B petition
approval to work in the United States for Trusoft International as a
nonimmigrant worker. (ran page 1E); Iskander Oumarov and Gregory Troussov stand
on a balcony overlooking the buildings of downtown St. Petersburg.; Chart lists
statistics of Tampa Bay area companies that employ H-1B workers.; Chart lists
the number of H-1B visa applications received from October to September by the
INS in 2000 and 2001.

                    Copyright 2002 Times Publishing Company


                              156 of 302 DOCUMENTS

                         St. Petersburg Times (Florida)

             October 04, 2000, Wednesday, 0 South Pinellas Edition

Congress passes high-tech visa bill

SOURCE: Compiled from Times Wires

SECTION: NATIONAL; IN BRIEF; Pg. 5A

LENGTH: 626 words

DATELINE: WASHINGTON



High-tech companies could bring in almost 600,000 additional skilled foreign
workers over the next three years and also hire thousands more foreign students
from U.S. graduate programs under a bill that sped through Congress on Tuesday.

The Senate passed the bill on a 96-1 vote, and the House followed with voice
vote passage several hours later, abandoning a version of its own that met
serious opposition from the technology industry. President Clinton has said he
will sign it.

Testimony changed in

White House e-mail case

A former White House lawyer has changed some of her testimony in the e-mail
controversy after being brought before a grand jury and confronted with
documents by prosecutors in Independent Counsel Robert Ray's office.

The changes submitted by ex-White House lawyer Michelle Peterson in a civil
court filing give a glimpse of Ray's investigation into whether the White House
covered up the e-mail problem in 1998 at the height of the Monica Lewinsky
scandal. Presidential aides deny any coverup.

Alleging bias, HUD seizes

Texas housing agency

The Department of Housing and Urban Affairs seized control of a Texas public
housing authority Tuesday, saying the agency had demonstrated a pattern of
discriminatory abuses dating to the 1960s.

"There's no question as to the existence of discrimination. There's no question
that it's been going on for decades. The only question is, when do you say,
"Enough is enough,' " said HUD Secretary Andrew Cuomo, announcing the federal
takeover of the Beaumont Housing Authority.

HUD officials said the Beaumont agency sold public housing units to ineligible
buyers, failed to use public housing funds to help low-income families and kept
inadequate records on the administration of its programs and its compliance with
civil rights laws.

Also Tuesday . . .

ANTHRAX VACCINE: Despite more than 1,500 reports of adverse reactions, "no clear
patterns" have emerged in any illness said to be related to the anthrax vaccine
being given to the military, the Food and Drug Administration told Congress. A
string of witnesses at a four-hour congressional hearing, some in tears, blamed
the vaccine for a variety of diseases or the deaths of loved ones.

ENERGY EFFICIENCY: After a summer of brownouts, the Clinton administration
proposed efficiency standards that would require new home central air
conditioners and heat pumps to use 20 percent to 30 percent less electricity.

The increased cost of the improvements - $ 274 more for the air units and $ 486
for a typical heat pump - would be more than offset by consumers' electricity
savings over time, Energy Department officials said.

NEEDLE INJURIES: The House voted to require hospitals and health care facilities
to use safety devices to reduce the number of needle-related injuries. The bill,
passed on a voice vote, still requires Senate approval.

PARK FEES: Visitors to some American parks and forests have become accustomed to
paying admission and the House voted to extend those fees through 2002.

A provision in the bill that funds the National Park Service moves the fees'
expiration date back a year to Sept. 30, 2002. The bill passed the House on a
vote of 348-69 and is expected to pass the Senate. By extending the fees,
Congress ducked a decision on whether to make the recreation fee program
permanent.

ALIEN SMUGGLING: The House voted to double criminal sentences for those involved
in smuggling aliens into the country.

The legislation, passed by voice, would establish mandatory minimum sentences
for alien-smuggling crimes and make fines for those convicted of smuggling
aliens equivalent to twice the amount the smuggler received for the crime. A
similar bill is being considered by the Senate.


LOAD-DATE: October 4, 2000

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: DIGEST

                    Copyright 2000 Times Publishing Company


                              157 of 302 DOCUMENTS

                         St. Petersburg Times (Florida)

             November 09, 2000, Thursday, 0 South Pinellas Edition

High-tech visas provoke disputes

BYLINE: JOHN BALZ

SECTION: BUSINESS; Pg. 1E

LENGTH: 1436 words



The use of foreign workers as software programmers has fired debate on the
availability and skill of older U.S. workers.

L.R. DuBroff is up to his elbows in "other people's filth," scraping, scrubbing
and reassembling the guts of an industrial-strength carpet cleaner. Hoses and
pumps, vacuum motors and hot water heaters, are all in a dirty, tangled mess
from rugged battles against nasty stains.

"We have to laugh at these things because otherwise we cry," says the
63-year-old.

Fixing vacuum cleaners is not what DuBroff expected to be doing with a
mathematics degree and 36 years as a top-notch software development engineer.
The Altamonte Springs resident worked first for some of technology's biggest
players and later as an independent contractor at BellSouth.

In the mid-'90s though, DuBroff says he and others were pushed out as too
expensive, too outdated. They were replaced by foreign workers imported under
the federal government's H-1B program of temporary work permits.

As DuBroff sees it, his hard-luck tale is one of corporate greed and bottom
lines. About getting caught in the web of business models and cost-cutting
tactics. And it's a fairly common one among aging programmers.

 High-tech industries pushed Congress aggressively over the past year to expand
the H-1B visa program, claiming they need more workers to fill hundreds of
thousands of jobs and keep the economy humming. President Clinton heeded their
call and signed a bill in October to expand the number of H-1B visas issued
annually from the current 115,000 to almost 200,000.

Critics say there's plenty of intelligent, hard-working labor yet to be mined in
America, and foreign-born workers are just cheap, temporary indentured servants.
DuBroff says it gives companies an easy solution to the question, " Why pay $
80,000 a year for one programmer when you can get two for the same price?"

The benefits of the H-1B visa program have long been known. High-tech industry
is clamoring for new sources of employees in an increasingly globalized
marketplace where foreign capital and labor are just as welcome and profitable
as their homegrown counterparts.

At Texas Instruments, roughly 700 of the 23,000 employees are temporary H-1B
visa workers, the majority of which work in the semiconductor chipmaker's
Dallas/Fort Worth headquarters. Roger Coker, director of TI's U.S. recruiting,
says despite "feverish" efforts to fill jobs, the company has 1,600 open
positions. Many of them have been sitting vacant for months.

"I've been recruiting for 20 years, and these are the most competitive times in
my entire career," Coker says. "It doesn't matter where you're from, if you can
design we want you."

Under rules of the visa program, employers are supposed to search first for U.S.
applicants to fill jobs and must sign an affidavit stating that American workers
will not be displaced by any H-1B hires.

And that has meant opportunity - albeit fragile - for people such as Abelardo
Antique, a software engineer who works as a design engineer for
Jacksonville-based CTI Logistix. A native of Manila, the University of
Cincinnati graduate gave up a solid, comfortable job with a Filipino beer
brewery for a "lifetime opportunity."

"It was all worth it,"says Antique, 38. "Given a second chance, I'd do it
again."

Antique considers his H-1B visa a blessing even though he knows his stay here is
tenuous - the visa will expire in 2003. H-1B workers can legally stay in the
United States for up to six years, during which time they usually struggle
through an unfamiliar bureaucracy in hopes of obtaining a green card.

Programmers, who wade in an abstract muck of analytical concepts and
mathematical formulas that make technology do what it promises, are not an old
bunch. While 60 percent of computer science majors take programming positions
after graduation, only 20 percent remain as programmers 20 years later,
according to the National Survey of College Graduates.

Technology companies say most of these one-time programmers have simply moved up
to management positions, but others, such as American Engineers Association
president Bill Reed, are skeptical. He believes employers are ignoring them.

"We're throwing away hundreds of thousands, even millions of years of experience
from our knowledge base by getting rid of these people," he said.

John Miano, a 38-year-old independent software consultant from Summit, N.J.,
questions just how "qualified" the help imported from abroad actually is. "You
hear about the highly skilled people being brought in, but the reality is that
they ain't highly skilled, they are just cheap," Miano said. "The people who are
brought in are going to screw up."

And when that happens, Miano steps in to clean up the mess by going after a
software program's bugs. For a fee, of course. "I'm profiting by pointing out
the stupidity of the whole process," said Miano. "Thanks to H-1B, I have an
airplane."

Still, Miano opposes further expansion of H-1B visas. If jobs are so short, he
asks, why aren't programmer salaries escalating rapidly?

Texas Instrument's Coker acknowledges that there are plenty of older programmers
available for work but says it would take from five to 18 months to learn the
proper skills. A company simply can't afford to retrain workers whose skills are
not current, he said.

"I can't go to a guy who's been designing airplane cockpit instruments and train
him to create integrated chips," Coker insists. "We need people who can step in
and start designing on Monday."

At 63, DuBroff predates the computer age - he saw his first computer in college.
As a youth, he dreamed of becoming a veterinarian but was drawn to engineering
because of its problem-solving elements.

In 1960, after a four-year stint in the Navy, he took an entry-level programming
position with Bell Telephone Laboratories. He went on to work for a half-dozen
other high-tech corporations until 1992, when the Florida economic climate for
engineers turned frigid. Du Broff began contracting his services, and in the
fall of 1995 BellSouth hired him on a six-month project in its Birmingham, Ala.,
office. The project dragged on, and DuBroff's contract kept being renewed.

BellSouth had operated for years with a team of 1,000 or so in-house engineers
directing several thousand independent hires.

But in 1998, according to DuBroff, Andersen Consulting convinced BellSouth
management to dump its own people and farm out software development. Almost all
the engineers kept their jobs, but they became employees of Andersen. The
company gutted the old BellSouth teams, firing already-established programmers
at a clip of a couple of hundred a month and replacing them with H-1B visa
workers.

"At this point, I saw the handwriting on the wall," DuBroff said. "I knew what
would happen, it was just a question of how long."

Eighteen months to be exact. In October 1999, after four years of renewals,
DuBroff was let go.

Peg Bernhardt, a BellSouth spokeswoman, said the company cannot discuss specific
personnel cases but that it never initiated massive layoffs to replace employees
with H-1B hires. The company does hire a limited number of H-1B workers on a
temporary basis, she said. Andersen Consulting declined to comment.

Figuring out how many other programmers share DuBroff's story is almost
impossible, according to Norm Matloff, a computer science professor at the
University of California-Davis. There are roughly a half-million former
programmers in America, he says, and although all may not know the hottest
computer language, an experienced programmer can become proficient in a new
language in a couple of months.

DuBroff, still highly confident about his own computer skills level, remains
near Orlando running a carpet cleaning equipment rental business with his wife.
He never sought legal recourse against BellSouth.

"I thought about a lawsuit," he said. "But it would be costly, and Andersen
could afford a better, more expensive legal team."

Matloff says there isn't much for workers such as DuBroff to do. Age
discrimination is a difficult case to prove and mounting a serious lobbying
campaign requires massive mobilization efforts among a group of people who are
not predisposed to rallying. The industry, he says, has relied on the "ignorance
and apathy" of former programmers to gain the upper hand.

Despite an affinity for software, DuBroff's experience has soured him enough to
stay away for good.

"I'm so disgusted that I just won't have anything to do with it," he said. "I've
totally divorced myself from it."


LOAD-DATE: November 9, 2000

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: COLOR PHOTO, PHELAN EBENHACK; L.R. DuBroff, who worked for 36 years as
a software development engineer, runs an industrial carpet cleaning service with
his wife.

                    Copyright 2000 Times Publishing Company


                              158 of 302 DOCUMENTS

                         St. Petersburg Times (Florida)

              January 18, 2001, Thursday, 0 South Pinellas Edition

Florida misses out on tech training grants

BYLINE: JOHN BALZ

SECTION: BUSINESS; Pg. 1E

LENGTH: 777 words

DATELINE: WASHINGTON



Only three groups applied for $ 100-million gathered from fees paid for
temporary work visas for foreign workers.

It's a deal designed to give American workers some benefit from the thousands of
foreign workers allowed into the country each year: The fees that companies pay
for the temporary work visas are used as grants for high-tech training programs
offered by universities and businesses.

Last year, the federal government awarded $ 100-million in such grants. South
Dakota, where there is very little tech activity, collected $ 2.7-million, and
Alaska's haul was almost $ 2.5-million.

But Florida received no money. Only three organizations from the state even
applied for funding.

Rep. Jim Davis, D-Tampa, made that point last week at a meeting of Tampa
high-tech executives, scolding the crowd for not taking advantage of
Washington's handouts.

For technology cradles such as Central Florida's Interstate 4 corridor, a highly
skilled work force is viewed as the key step to economic growth, and
job-training programs that stress computer networking are valuable tools in
nurturing technology industries. Failing to encourage these programs or take
advantage of funding for them makes it harder for the state to play catch-up
with more established tech-heavy regions, Davis said.

"Florida is missing the boat," he said. "People in the technology field are so
busy with their jobs, but if they had stopped and taken a deep breath they
could've gotten some money."

The money, awarded by the Department of Labor, comes from the $ 500 fee a
company pays for an H-1B visa required to hire a foreign worker. Individual
companies, colleges and high-tech groups are invited to submit information
technology-training project proposals for review, but the government received
applications from only three Florida groups last year. None of them was from the
Tampa Bay area.

Many of the tech executives, who view Uncle Sam with a skeptical eye, were
unaware the money was even available to them.

"I would have never thought to go to government for assistance on anything,"
said Scott Gostyla, former chief executive of Hydrogen Media, an Internet
consulting company in St. Petersburg. "I've never run into a peer of mine who
has even mentioned information about how they received help from the
government."

Under pressure from an industry short on workers, Congress passed legislation
expanding the number of temporary work visas to almost 200,000 each year and
doubled the $ 500 fee companies pay for each new hire. Revenues should generate
roughly $ 200-million a year for job training. Davis, speaking to members of the
Internet Business Association International group in Tampa, urged business
leaders to aggressively pursue and promote partnerships with higher education to
ensure their share of the pot in 2001.

A year ago, the high-tech job market was tight; now, with the slowing economy,
the market is better described as snug. But tech leaders say qualified
applicants always will be at a premium, so companies need to learn how to
cultivate and attract them.

Across the country, companies and universities frequently team up to offer
curriculum programs in programming and Web design that in turn provide the
skilled labor they so covet.

Seminole Community College/Cisco Academy in Sanford is the major program of that
kind in Central Florida. Formed in conjunction with Cisco Systems, the computer
networking systems giant, the academy offers 19 high-tech associate of arts
degrees or certificate programs.

Gainesville-based Bradford Regional Workforce Development Board was one of the
three Florida technology councils hoping to start a similar job training program
that would fill high-tech positions in the medical and bioengineering sectors.
It applied to the Department of Labor for $ 3-million in September but was
rejected.

Aneash Thakur, the planning and resources administrator who put the application
together, said she never heard from the department about why. "Of course we were
upset, but we couldn't do anything about it," she said.

Department of Labor officials would not comment on losing applications, but the
criteria under consideration were whether projects could be sustained, the
quality of the companies and schools involved, and the amount of money already
raised.

Florida didn't go completely penniless in 2000. The Department of Labor gives
out millions more in grant money from sources other than work visa fees.
Bethune-Cookman College in Daytona Beach received $ 1.6-million for a project
that will train 550 people in "work ethics" and "computer literacy" courses,
according to the college.


LOAD-DATE: January 19, 2001

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: COLOR PHOTO; Rep. Jim Davis, D-Tampa

                    Copyright 2001 Times Publishing Company


                              159 of 302 DOCUMENTS

                         St. Petersburg Times (Florida)

                  May 12, 2002 Sunday 0 South Pinellas Edition

Nelsons to sell big Tallahassee house

SECTION: NATIONAL; Pg. 3A

LENGTH: 553 words


As empty-nesters, Florida's Sen. Bill Nelson and his wife, Grace, no longer need
their 6,800-square-foot Greek revival home in Tallahassee. So they have put it
on the market for $1.25-million.

Purchased in 1994 for $740,000, the house has six bedrooms and 6 1/2 baths.
Known as Live Oaks, the 30-year-old mansion is on a 3-acre, beautifully
landscaped lot. It was designed for former Sen. Richard Stone, D-Fla., by
architect William Frank McCall.

According to the Wall Street Journal, the Nelsons' house has four white entry
columns, wrought-iron fencing, leaded glass entry doors, crown molding, antique
pegged-pine flooring, mahogany-paneled walls in the family room, a walk-in wet
bar, built-in bookshelves, a library, a butler's pantry and a maid's room.

The agent is Manormor Real Estate, an affiliate of Sotheby's International
Realty,in Jacksonville.

Senator pleads snowbirds' visa case with INS

Terrorists, no. Snowbirds, yes.

That about sums up a letter Sen. Bob Graham sent the nation's top immigration
official last week. The Florida Democrat told Immigration and Naturalization
Service commissioner James Ziglar that a proposed rule to limit most overseas
visitors to a 30-day stay in the United States would damage Florida's economy.

The rule is meant to restrict the movements of international terrorists. But
many Florida officials fear it will turn away winter residents from overseas and
persuade those who own vacation homes to sell out.

"A bona-fide winter resident of Florida will not be a security threat by staying
in our state for five months. A bona-fide terrorist has the potential to be a
security threat by staying in our state for even a few hours," Graham wrote.

He urged the INS to come up with a pre-screening process for visas that would
allow legitimate vacationers more time to enjoy the state's beaches and sunsets.


Judgeship still vacant a year after suggestions

Senate Republicans on Thursday gave a series of floor speeches meant to pressure
Democrats into more quickly scheduling confirmation votes for President Bush's
nominees to the federal bench.

But some Florida Democrats privately noted an irony: For about a year, Bush has
failed to take action on three recommendations from a Florida judicial
nominating commission for an open federal judgeship in the Middle District of
Florida.

The Middle District, which includes Tampa and St. Petersburg, has had an open
U.S. District Court judgeship for three years. About a year ago, the state's
Federal Judicial Nominating Commission, whose members are appointed by the
president's brother, Gov. Jeb Bush, and other Republicans, sent the White House
three suggestions to fill the slot.

That has not kept Bush from accusing the Democratic-controlled Senate of
"endangering the administration of justice in America" by not moving quickly on
all his judicial nominees.

The three Middle District nominees in limbo are Tallahassee lawyer Kenneth W.
Sukhia, Jacksonville lawyer Dana Bradford and U.S. Magistrate Timothy Corrigan,
also of Jacksonville.

On Thursday, the Senate approved four Bush judicial nominees, bringing the total
to 56 confirmed out of 99 nominations by Bush since he took office in January
2001.

- Times staff writers Mary Jacoby and Sara Fritz contributed to this column.

LOAD-DATE: May 12, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                    Copyright 2002 Times Publishing Company


                              160 of 302 DOCUMENTS

                         St. Petersburg Times (Florida)

                  May 20, 2002 Monday 0 South Pinellas Edition

Limiting visas

SECTION: EDITORIAL; Pg. 10A

LENGTH: 534 words


A rule change proposed by the Immigration and Naturalization Service to limit
the number of days visitors to the United States may stay is meeting with some
harsh criticism and deservedly so.

The pending regulation would limit non-immigrant visitor visas to a maximum of
six months, down from one year. It would also give local immigration officials
at airports and other ports of entry the discretion to place a much shorter cap
on the number of days a visitor can remain in the United States - even limiting
the visit to a matter of days. Current INS rules grant visitors a minimum six
months stay. According to an INS spokesman, the current system is way too
generous. Statistics, he says, demonstrate that most tourists are able to
accomplish their purpose within 30 days. And under the new rules, it is expected
that most visitor visas will be granted for about that time period.

The new strictures are intended to heighten security at our borders, giving the
INS greater control over the amount of time an alien can remain here. But as
U.S. Sen. Bob Graham, D-Fla., writes in a letter to INS Commissioner James
Ziglar: "A bona-fide winter resident of Florida will not be a security threat by
staying in our state for five months. A bona-fide terrorist has the potential to
be a security threat by staying in our state for even a few hours."

Offering access to American soil for weeks rather than months isn't likely to
deter someone bent on harming Americans. Obviously, we learned a painful lesson
from Sept. 11. - not everyone who comes here does so to enjoy our sights and
society. Our Swiss cheese system of immigration controls is woefully inadequate
to address these new threats and we clearly have to enhance border security. But
the answer isn't to create a new bureaucratic mess at America's ports of entry,
where low-level INS employees would have the authority to make snap judgments
about the validity of a visitor's stated purpose for his or her trip and the
amount of time it is expected to take. Careful screening before visas are issued
is the best way to protect American shores.

Graham is worried that busy immigration officials called on to make on-the-spot
determinations on visitors will inevitably lead to a default to a 30-day maximum
for nearly all visitors. He calls this "an unworkable and chaotic proposal," and
one that will lead to the INS being called to process "thousands of requests for
extensions," diverting the agency from more important duties.

By the end of the public comment period on May 13, the INS had received more
than 10,000 comments on the new rule. The agency will now review these over the
next month or two, issuing a final rule by the middle of July. Ziglar should
take the concerns of Graham to heart. The changes proposed offer only
speculative increases in national security and could just as easily prove
counterproductive. At the same time, Florida's international visitors, snowbirds
and those traveling on business could be dissuaded from making the journey. Who
would want to invest the time and money to make an overseas trip when there is
always the possibility that some INS worker at the airport will cut one's visit
short?

LOAD-DATE: May 21, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                    Copyright 2002 Times Publishing Company


                              161 of 302 DOCUMENTS

                         St. Petersburg Times (Florida)

                May 22, 2002 Wednesday 0 South Pinellas Edition

Relaxed license rules unburden immigrants

BYLINE: ALISA ULFERTS

SECTION: CITY & STATE; Pg. 1B

LENGTH: 517 words


Hector Estrada spent most of his third wedding anniversary standing in line at
the Pinellas Park driver's license office, trying to help his Mexican wife renew
her license.

Also in line that January day  were a Bosnian family, a young Vietnamese woman
and countless other Pinellas County immigrants forced to renew at that office
until more state workers could be trained to spot fake immigration documents.

But those restrictions, a reaction to the Sept. 11 terrorist attacks, will be
lifted beginning June 1, state officials announced Tuesday.

In 62 counties, foreigners could go to any of the driver's license bureau. But
Pinellas and Hillsborough, and three other Florida counties, have so many
noncitizens that the state restricted where they could go. That gave Florida
time to train state workers in the finer points of immigration fraud detection.

And it has worked so far, said Fred Dickinson, director of the state Department
of Highway Safety and Motor Vehicles. Workers are finding more fake immigration
papers at the driver's license offices, although Dickinson credits better
training, not more fraud, for the increase.

"We've gotten more proficient at examining those documents," Dickinson told Gov.
Jeb Bush and the Florida Cabinet on Tuesday.

The new rules governing noncitizens, including the designation of specific
offices to handle their needs, were effective Dec. 13 and intended to make it
harder for potential terrorists to get identification.

But some of those new rules inconvenienced law-abiding residents, said Ed
Quinones, chairman of UNO, a Clearwater based Hispanic advocacy group. Quinones
said the restrictions were hard for those working far from a designated driver's
license office.

"I would say it was a step in the right direction for our foreign nationals and
friends," Quinones said of the state's decision to expand access for noncitizens
to all driver's license offices.

State officials tightened their license and identification requirements for
foreigners after learning that 13 of the 19 terrorists involved in the Sept. 11
attacks had Florida ID cards or drivers' licenses.

The documents needed to obtain a license didn't change. But if any of the
estimated 2.8-million drivers who are not citizens attempt to renew, change an
address or clear up a problem, they must produce those documents.

And if they don't have them, they risk losing their license or identification
card until they produce them.

Estrada's wife was issued a 30-day driving permit and copies of her documents
were sent to Tallahassee to be checked against outstanding warrants with the
National Law Enforcement Tracking System.

Once such checks have been made, she and other noncitizens will get a regular
license. Its expiration date will coincide with the expiration date  of their
visa.

That was a change Bush said he liked.

"What we have done, which makes total sense, is no longer after their visa
expires will their license" be valid, Bush said Tuesday.

- Times staff writer Alicia Caldwell and researcher Caryn Baird contributed to
this report.

LOAD-DATE: May 22, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DISTRIBUTION: CITY & STATE; METRO & STATE; TAMPA & STATE

GRAPHIC: PHOTO; Fred Dickinson

                    Copyright 2002 Times Publishing Company


                              162 of 302 DOCUMENTS

                         St. Petersburg Times (Florida)

                July 18, 2002 Thursday 0 South Pinellas Edition

INS is watching wife of ex-USF instructor

BYLINE: GRAHAM BRINK

SECTION: CITY & STATE; Pg. 3B

LENGTH: 481 words

DATELINE: TAMPA


The Immigration and Naturalization Service has imposed supervision requirements
on the wife of an imprisoned former University of South Florida instructor while
she awaits deportation.

Fedaa Al-Najjar, whose husband, Mazen Al-Najjar, has been linked to terrorism by
the federal government but never charged, will have to check in with the INS
every month. She also has to show that she is actively working on finding a
country that will accept her as a deportee.

David Cole, an attorney for the Al-Najjars, said both of the Al-Najjars have
been working as hard as possible to secure a required travel document and to
arrange for another country to take them in. Several countries have already
turned them down. The United Arab Emirates, to which the United States
officially deported Mazen Al-Najjar, has turned down his request for entry three
times, Cole said.

Both of them are waiting to hear from Saudi Arabia, he said. Mazen Al-Najjar
remains in solitary confinement in a federal prison in Sumter County.

"If you compare the way the INS is treating this family and any other similarly
situated immigrant, the comparison is extremely stark," Cole said.

INS spokesman Rodney Germain said he could not talk about the specifics of the
Al-Najjars' case. Germain said it was not uncommon for the INS to impose
supervision requirements on people awaiting deportation.

Cole and Mazen Al-Najjar's other attorneys have argued that the government has
exceeded the six-month maximum that they can hold someone in Al-Najjar's
position. The government prosecutors believe that a later law applies in this
case that allows them more flexibility when detaining potential deportees who
are a threat to national security.

Mazen Al-Najjar entered the United States from Gaza in 1981 and overstayed his
student visa. He has been fighting deportation since 1996.

He and his wife are stateless Palestinians. Mazen Al-Najjar has been linked to
terrorism by the federal government, although he has never been charged. In
1997, Mazen Al-Najjar challenged an immigration judge's decision to keep him
jailed on the basis of classified evidence allegedly linking him to the
terrorist group Palestinian Islamic Jihad.

He spent 3 1/2 years in jail on the basis of the classified information. In
December 2000, then-Attorney General Janet Reno released him after a federal
judge ruled his constitutional rights were violated by the government's refusal
to share the secret evidence with him.

He was detained again in November and has been in prison since.

Cole said it was possible that Saudi Arabia could accept either of the
Al-Najjars, but not both. That would force their three young children, who all
are U.S. citizens, to decide which parent to remain with.

"This family might be forced to split up," Cole said.

- Graham Brink can be reached at (813) 226-3365 or brink@sptimes.com.

LOAD-DATE: July 18, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DISTRIBUTION: CITY & STATE; METRO & STATE; TAMPA & STATE

GRAPHIC: PHOTO, (2); Fedaa Al-Najjar; Mazen Al-Najjar (ran CITY & STATE, METRO &
STATE)

                    Copyright 2002 Times Publishing Company


                              163 of 302 DOCUMENTS

                         St. Petersburg Times (Florida)

                 July 23, 2002 Tuesday 0 South Pinellas Edition

If foreigners move, INS wants to know

SOURCE: Compiled from Times Wires

SECTION: NATIONAL; Pg. 5A

LENGTH: 599 words

DATELINE: WASHINGTON; KABUL, Afghanistan; NEW YORK


The Immigration and Naturalization Service is stepping up enforcement of a
50-year-old law requiring foreigners to alert the government within 10 days when
they change addresses.

The new policy was signaled by a proposed rule change announced Monday by
Attorney General John Ashcroft. The rule will require the government to update
nearly three dozen immigration forms to better explain and give notice to
foreigners that they must report any move to the government.

"By clarifying the existing requirement that noncitizens report their addresses
to the INS, we are able to increase our ability to locate quickly an alien if
removal proceeding must be initiated," Ashcroft said.

The government did not announce an increase in INS agents to accommodate the
change.

Congressional critics have charged the INS with being lax in tracking down
foreign residents who do not report an address change. Punishment for not
reporting a move has been rare.

A Justice Department official told the Associated Press that the rule change was
meant to "shift the responsibility from the government to the immigrant for
making sure the government knows where the person is located."

The official said the rule is meant as a warning that foreigners who fail to
comply could face deportation.

Immigrant advocacy groups said the policy is overreaching.

"The attorney general is threatening to put people in jail and have them
deported for the equivalent of having an overdue library book," said Angela
Kelley, a director of the National Immigration Forum in Washington.

"It is ludicrous to believe this is going to keep us safe from terrorism. No
terrorist is going to turn in a change of address form. This is only going to
hurt the law-abiding immigrants who are trying to keep pace with all the things
we require."

U.S. soldiers take over

Karzai's protection

KABUL, Afghanistan - President Hamid Karzai has sidelined his Afghan bodyguards
and called in U.S. troops to replace them in a sign of rising security fears
after the murder of an Afghan vice president, his aide said Monday.

Diplomats said the move followed "serious threats" against Karzai, some believed
to have come from within his Cabinet. About 50 guards who were replaced were
part of the 10,000-strong force of fighters loyal to Defense Minister Mohammed
Fahim.

U.S. Defense Secretary Donald H. Rumsfeld called the change a "short-term"
measure to ensure stability.

"We look at it as a relatively short-term matter" to last several weeks or
months, Rumsfeld said, adding that the United States would help train Afghan
bodyguards for Karzai.

"Clearly, it is important for that country that the outcome of the loya jirga
not be negated by violence," Rumsfeld said, referring to the Afghan grand
council which chose Karzai last month to head the two-year transitional
government.

Concern over Karzai's safety has soared after the unsolved killing this month of
Vice President Abdul Qadir, said presidential spokesman Said Fazel Akbar.

Moussaoui roommate

pleads guilty to lying

NEW YORK - A Saudi student who briefly shared a room with Zacarias Moussaoui in
Oklahoma pleaded guilty Monday to making false statements, including lying to
the FBI about their plans to visit New York in August.

Hussein al-Attas, 24, entered the plea to seven charges in U.S. District Court
as part of a deal that keeps him in the country to testify, if needed, against
Moussaoui, the only person charged with conspiring to help the 19 Sept. 11
hijackers.

Under the plea agreement, al-Attas faces up to six months in prison.

LOAD-DATE: July 23, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                    Copyright 2002 Times Publishing Company


                              164 of 302 DOCUMENTS

                         St. Petersburg Times (Florida)

                  August 1, 2002 Thursday 2 Late Tampa Edition

Ybor's Cubans split on trip

BYLINE: DAVID KARP; SUSAN THURSTON

SECTION: TAMPA & STATE; Pg. 1B

LENGTH: 779 words

DATELINE: TAMPA


(ran SS edition of METRO & STATE)

The four-story Cuban Club in Ybor City stands as a reminder of the island's deep
roots in Tampa.

For decades, Cuban immigrants gathered there to socialize, get medical care and
relax. But they seldom could agree on politics, and the topic was banned inside
the building.

Today, those disagreements remain.

Word that Mayor Dick Greco and a contingency of Tampa leaders went to Cuba this
week stirred mixed emotions among local Cubans, many of whom have a different
perspective than their counterparts in Miami.

"Our Cuban community is very different from Miami's," said Angie Manteiga, who
runs the trilingual Ybor City newspaper, La Gaceta, with her husband, Patrick,
who went on the trip to Cuba with the mayor. "It is a lot older."

The history tells the story.

Many Cubans came to Tampa long before Fidel Castro wrested control from dictator
Fulgencio Batista in 1959. Instead of coming for political reasons, they came
for jobs.

The first Cuban migration to Tampa began in the late 1800s after labor unrest
and a fire forced the cigar industry to relocate from Key West. The waterfront
city became a major destination for trade between the island and the United
States. Until Castro, Tampa ran a passenger ferry to Cuba.

Ybor City became a thriving Cuban enclave, where immigrants formed social clubs,
organized trade unions and campaigned for political causes.

Thousands of cigar workers gave money to help Jose Marti lead a revolution
against the Spaniards in Cuba in 1895. Today, a park in Ybor bears his name.

Even Castro had friends in Tampa. While planning his communist takeover, he
traveled to Ybor to raise money from laborers sympathetic to socialism.

"By the time the revolution starts in Cuba in 1956, Tampa is a place that Fidel
Castro comes to, to get support," said professor Susan Fernandez, who teaches
Cuban history at the University of South Florida.

After Castro took over, exiles who lost property and positions of influence in
Cuba migrated mostly to South Florida. Tampa's Cuban population was more varied,
with anti-Castro exiles and older workers with strong labor ties.

"There's a different mix," said Joe O'Neill, a member of Tampa's Cuban Club.
"It's a moderating effect, not at all like Miami. You can't pander to the Tampa
Cuban community like you can in South Florida."

This week, conversation at local cantinas proved that Tampa's Cubans don't speak
one voice.

"I don't like (the mayor's trip)," said Octavio Infiesta, who moved to Tampa
from Cuba 40 years ago and could be found Wednesday visiting friends at Centro
Asturiano in Ybor City.

"If he wants to go there, fine," said Pedro Blanco, a part-time bartender and
cook at Centro Asturiano, who left Cuba 49 years ago. "The pope went there. Why
can't he?"

The crowd at La Ideal Cafeteria, a west Tampa sandwich shop, was equally split.

"He shouldn't be over there," said Herbert Ramos, 39, whose parents fled Cuba in
1959.

At the other end of the counter sat 85-year-old Robert Rodeiro, sipping a double
espresso.

"We do business with a lot of countries that are communist," said Rodeiro, a
Spaniard. "I'm against communism regardless, but sometimes you have to
negotiate."

"A lot of people go to Cuba and come back," he said. "Why not the mayor?"

At El Gallo de Oro restaurant on Armenia Avenue, photographs of Old Havana hang
from the wall. At a table, sipping white bean soup, sat Jose Cardenas, 76, who
served as a bodyguard to the former Cuban leader, Batista.

Cardenas, who has known Greco for years, pretended to slash his throat when
asked about the trip.

"They are playing Fidel's game," he said. "It's a waste of time to talk to
Fidel. . . . Carter went, nothing happened. Greco goes, nothing happens."

- David Karp can be reached at 226-3376 or karp@sptimes.com.

Hillsborough County's Cuban population

Hillsborough had 35,123 Cubans in 2000, the third largest number in Florida,
behind Miami-Dade and Broward counties.

During the 1990s, Hillsborough's Cuban population rose 25 percent, but was
surpassed in number by Puerto Ricans and Mexicans.

Hillsborough's largest concentrations of Cubans live in neighborhoods along Dale
Mabry Highway between Kennedy Boulevard and Waters Avenue.

Tampa's Cuban population of 14,674 is the fourth largest among Florida cities.
Cubans' top three cities are Hialeah, Miami and Miami Beach.

Cubans constitute 5 percent of Florida's population and 31 percent of Florida's
Hispanics - the largest single Hispanic nationality in the state. Of Florida's
Cubans, 78 percent live in Miami-Dade.

- Compiled by staff writer Bill Coats Source: Census 2000

LOAD-DATE: August 1, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DISTRIBUTION: TAMPA & STATE; METRO & STATE

GRAPHIC: PHOTO, KRYSTAL KINNUNEN; Octavio Infiesta, 74, left, and Pedro Blanco,
70, tell jokes Wednesday in Centro Asturiano in Ybor City. (ran TAMPA & STATE)

                    Copyright 2002 Times Publishing Company


                              165 of 302 DOCUMENTS

                         St. Petersburg Times (Florida)

                August 25, 2002 Sunday 0 South Pinellas Edition

Landed in Lebanon;
 "Wandering Palestinian's' ordeal ends

BYLINE: ANITA KUMAR; GRAHAM BRINK

SECTION: NATIONAL; Pg. 1A

LENGTH: 1341 words


Mazen Al-Najjar's quest for a new home landed him in Lebanon on Saturday, ending
a tense two-day ordeal of scuttled travel plans and secret international
negotiations.

Al-Najjar was greeted warmly in the Middle East, where newspapers have portrayed
him as a victim of U.S. oppression.

Now, he can live freely in Lebanon for six months on a tourist visa. The former
University of South Florida instructor hopes to be reunited with his family and
later move to South Africa, where a Muslim school has offered him a job.

"Today, I'm really at peace," Al-Najjar said in an interview from his sister's
home in Beirut. "(You) can't imagine how much peace I feel."

He will live with his sister and her family after spending much of the last five
years in Florida jails, first on secret evidence of suspected ties to terrorists
and then on immigration violations.

The international drama of Al-Najjar's deportation had been weeks in the making,
complete with secret negotiations, but by Thursday the outlook appeared grim
when the tiny Middle East country of Bahrain rejected Al-Najjar as he flew over
the Atlantic.

Al-Najjar left a Sumter County prison Thursday morning with U.S. cash and a
credit card, escorted by Immigration and Naturalization Service agents. They
drove to Gainesville and took a 10-seat jet to Ireland, where they refueled.
Then, they flew to Italy, where they spent 25 hours on a Rome runway before
landing in Beirut early Saturday.

Al-Najjar's family, including wife and children in Tampa, worried that Lebanon
also would reject him and force a return to the United States, where he had been
in prison since November.

At one point, the family hurriedly faxed a copy of his Lebanese visa to U.S.
government officials after INS agents threw away the copy in Al-Najjar's bag
because it was in Arabic, the family said.

Lebanese officials allowed the plane to land about 2:30 a.m. EDT. INS agents
flew away before his paperwork was processed.

"The story of Dr. Al-Najjar is really the story of the wandering Palestinian,"
said Sami Al-Arian, Al-Najjar's brother-in-law. "A hundred years ago, there was
the wandering Jew around the world. And what we have today is the wandering
Palestinian. . . . He is a person without a country."

Al-Najjar was met at the airport by his sister, Hala Al-Najjar, who lives in
Beirut with her husband and six children.

His other sister, Nahla Al-Arian of Tampa, wife of Sami Al-Arian, described her
brother's ordeal as "horrible."

"I feel upset because I lost my brother in this way," she said Saturday. "All of
us feel ashamed the way he was treated."

Al-Najjar's wife, Fedaa Al-Najjar, also is facing deportation. She was not able
to travel with her husband because she does not have the proper travel
documents.

But Sami Al-Arian said the Egyptian government agreed to renew her expired
documents, paving the way for her and their three daughters, ages 14, 11 and 7,
to join him, though it may take months.

"Hearing him speak was such a great moment," Fedaa Al-Najjar said. "I'm so happy
for him but also sad that he is without us."

Al-Najjar's father, a U.S. citizen who flew to the Palestinian-controlled Gaza
Strip several months ago for the third time to try to acquire travel documents
for his son, will visit soon. Al-Najjar's mother and sister also plan to travel
there in the next few weeks.

"All his life he was a man of peace, high morals and character," said his
mother, Imaam Al-Najjar, whose comments were translated by her daughter. "Four
years of his life were lost. They punished him for four years for nothing."

The family received word of Al-Najjar's arrival in Beirut about 5 a.m. Saturday.
Al-Najjar's wife and sister spoke to him for an hour that morning as he drank
tea at his sister's house.

"I'm excited. I can't believe," said Nahla Al-Arian, who was seen crying
publicly several times last week but couldn't help but smile during an interview
Saturday.

Since November, Al-Najjar, has been jailed at the Coleman Federal Correctional
Complex for overstaying his student visa. He had tried to find a new country but
none would take him until two weeks ago, when Yasser Arafat's Palestinian
Authority granted him travel documents.

The family secured a visa from Lebanon on Aug. 6, but the country would not take
him if he came directly from the United States, Sami Al-Arian said. A couple of
weeks later, a friend in Bahrain helped get him a visitor's visa so he could
spend a few days there before heading to Lebanon.

"Many of these countries don't want all the publicity," said Sami Al-Arian, a
USF professor who himself is under federal investigation into accusations of
terrorist ties. "By having Mazen come in from a country other than the United
States, it can cut down on all the (news) reports."

Al-Najjar and his U.S. escorts headed to Ireland on Thursday night to refuel,
but learned Bahrain would not welcome him.

It's unclear why officials in Bahrain changed their minds. But Al-Arian thinks
the pilots radioed ahead for clearance, and when officials there heard who was
on board, they rejected the request.

Jamal Rowaie, second secretary at the Embassy of Bahrain in Washington, told the
Times last week that Al-Najjar's deportation and the publicity his case had
generated had influenced Bahrain's decision to renege on the visa. Rowaie said
he did not know why Bahrain officials would grant Al-Najjar a visa in the first
place if they intended to turn him away.

The family begged U.S. government officials to take Al-Najjar on a regularly
scheduled commercial flight from Europe. If Al-Najjar had flown in on a
commercial flight, Al-Arian said, he would have been just another passenger with
a two-week visa.

U.S. officials in Washington confirmed details of Al-Najjar's journey on
Saturday. But they would not explain why he was sent on a corporate jet.

"They wouldn't listen to us," Sami Al-Arian said.

A stateless Palestinian, Al-Najjar came to the United States in 1981 but
overstayed a student visa. He was jailed in 1997 in Bradenton on classified
evidence that allegedly linked him to the Palestinian terrorist group Islamic
Jihad. He was never charged.

Al-Najjar was released 3 1/2 years later in December 2000, after a Miami federal
judge ruled his constitutional rights were violated by the government's refusal
to divulge the evidence so that he could mount a defense. In November, a federal
appeals court upheld a deportation order for overstaying the visa and ordered
him back into custody.

Al-Najjar and his wife came to the U.S. using Egyptian travel documents, but
Egypt refused to renew their documents. The Palestinian Authority, which usually
issues such documents only for people living in occupied territories, recently
took the rare step of granting Al-Najjar new documents to get him out of U.S.
custody.

"We are not bitter or upset," his wife said. "We just wonder why he had to be
treated this way if he hadn't done anything wrong."

Now, free in Lebanon, where thousands of Palestinians have settled over the
years, Al-Najjar will recuperate from his lengthy prison stays and his medical
ailments that stem from diabetes. On the trip to Beirut, Al-Najjar was
accompanied by a doctor, who gave him two weeks' worth of medication for his
diabetes and heart troubles.

"Right now," said Sami Al-Arian, "we want to savor that the worst of the ordeal
is over."

- Times staff writers Susan Taylor Martin and Paul de la Garza contributed to
this report.

Al-Najjar's odyssey

4 a.m. Thursday

Mazen Al-Najjar is driven from Coleman Federal Correctional Complex in Sumter
County to Gainesville airport.

Stopover

Charter plane carrying Al-Najjar, four pilots, three INS agents and a doctor
refuels in Ireland.

10 p.m. Thursday

Flight lands in Rome, and Al-Najjar remains onboard. Plane leaves 25 hours later
at 11 p.m. Friday.

Flight departs Rome.

2:30 a.m. Saturday

Plane arrives in Beirut, Lebanon.

NOTE: Not actual flight path; All times are EDT

LOAD-DATE: August 25, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: PHOTO, KRYSTAL KINNUNEN; MAP; Sami and Nahla Al-Arian describe Mazen
Al-Najjar's long trip to Lebanon on Saturday at a news conference.; Profiles
Mazen Al-Najjar's flight on Thursday beginning at an airport near Gainesville,
Fla., and ending in Beirut, Lebanon.

                    Copyright 2002 Times Publishing Company


                              166 of 302 DOCUMENTS

                         St. Petersburg Times (Florida)

             September 5, 2002 Thursday 4 State / Suncoast Edition

Nominee backs legal status for aliens

SOURCE: Compiled from Times Wires

SECTION: NATIONAL; Pg. 3A

LENGTH: 114 words

DATELINE: WASHINGTON


Antonio Garza Jr., President Bush's nominee to be U.S. ambassador to Mexico,
said Wednesday that foreigners who work in the United States should be able to
earn legal status.

An option, Garza said, may be using a law already on the books that is
essentially a statute of limitations on an immigrant's illegal status.

In a confirmation hearing before the Senate Foreign Relations Committee, Garza
said a guest worker program must serve U.S. labor needs and provide a path to
legal residency. It can't give amnesty to illegal aliens, he said.

He also said the United States and Mexico should resume immigration talks that
were derailed after the Sept. 11 terrorist attacks.

LOAD-DATE: September 5, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                    Copyright 2002 Times Publishing Company


                              167 of 302 DOCUMENTS

                         St. Petersburg Times (Florida)

             September 24, 2002 Tuesday 4 State / Suncoast Edition

U.S. plans to register Saudi visitors

SOURCE: Compiled from Times Wires

SECTION: NATIONAL; Pg. 6A

LENGTH: 158 words

DATELINE: WASHINGTON


A program that requires registration of foreign visitors from some countries in
the Middle East and North Africa is being expanded to include men from Saudi
Arabia, a U.S. ally and the home country of 15 of the 19 Sept. 11 hijackers.

An Immigration and Naturalization Service memo obtained by the Associated Press
directs immigration inspectors registering aliens to include men, ages 16 to 45,
from Saudi Arabia, Pakistan and Yemen, starting Oct. 1.

A spokesman at the Saudi Embassy did not immediately return calls from the
Associated Press.

Also . . .

PAKISTAN DETAINS 3: Acting on a tip from the FBI, Pakistani police and
intelligence officials on Monday arrested three men on the outskirts of the city
of Peshawar, in northwestern Pakistan, and began investigating them for possible
links to al-Qaida, a senior police official said. The official said one of the
men was Tunisian but did not release information about the others.

LOAD-DATE: September 24, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                    Copyright 2002 Times Publishing Company


                              168 of 302 DOCUMENTS

                         St. Petersburg Times (Florida)

              September 24, 2002 Tuesday 0 South Pinellas Edition

U.S. plans to register Saudi visitors

SOURCE: Compiled from Times Wires

SECTION: NATIONAL; Pg. 6A

LENGTH: 414 words

DATELINE: WASHINGTON; BALTIMORE


A program that requires registration of foreign visitors from some countries in
the Middle East and North Africa is being expanded to include men from Saudi
Arabia, a U.S. ally and the home country of 15 of the 19 Sept. 11 hijackers.

An Immigration and Naturalization Service memo obtained by the Associated Press
directs immigration inspectors registering aliens to include men, ages 16 to 45,
from Saudi Arabia, Pakistan and Yemen, starting Oct. 1.

A Saudi foreign policy adviser, Adel Al-Jubeir, noted that nationals of other
countries could also be subject to registration and Saudis were not being
especially singled out.

Panel considers plans

in case Congress attacked

A 15-member Continuity of Government Commission, a project backed by the
Brookings Institution and the American Enterprise Institute, met for the first
time Monday to discuss ways to mend the gaping hole that would be left should a
catastrophe devastate the legislative branch.

The commission, created by the generally liberal Brookings and mostly
conservative American Enterprise Institute, is not an official panel of the U.S.
government. But it includes such prominent figures as former Sen. Alan Simpson,
R-Wyo., and former White House counsel Lloyd Cutler.

A swarm of questions faces the group as it wades through the task of determining
how most effectively to repair a gouged government: How should Congress replace
members? Is a constitutional amendment in order? Who would determine when
emergency measures would take effect?

Bail denied for three

arrested in Baltimore

BALTIMORE - Three immigrants were ordered held without bail Monday after the
Immigration and Naturalization Service said they were being investigated for
links to terrorism.

The FBI is examining two computers - containing information on flight schools
and regional and local airports - found in the sparsely furnished Baltimore
apartment where the men and three others were arrested Sept. 10, INS attorney
Melody Brukiewa said.

Officers also found literature written in Arabic mentioning jihad, or holy war,
and Islam.

Judge Lisa Dornell denied bail for the men pending an Oct. 7 hearing, saying:
"There were items in that house that raise serious concerns."

Also . . .

INTELLIGENCE SHARING: The Justice Department disclosed detailed plans Monday for
funneling to U.S. intelligence agencies terrorism-related information about U.S.
citizens gleaned from wiretaps and grand jury testimony.

LOAD-DATE: September 24, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                    Copyright 2002 Times Publishing Company


                              169 of 302 DOCUMENTS

                         St. Petersburg Times (Florida)

              September 26, 2002 Thursday 0 South Pinellas Edition

INS agents charged in beating

SOURCE: Compiled from Times Wires

SECTION: NATIONAL; Pg. 10A

LENGTH: 546 words

DATELINE: HOUSTON; SWEENY, Texas; MONTPELIER, Vt.


Three U.S. immigration agents were charged with beating a Mexican and denying
him medical care during a raid that left him paralyzed from the neck down and
led to his death a year later.

Immigration and Naturalization Service deportation officers Carlos Reyna,
Richard Henry Gonzales and Louis Rey Gomez are accused of violating Serafin
Olvera-Carrera's civil rights in the March 25, 2001, raid. All three, from San
Antonio, Texas, were freed on $30,000 bail Tuesday.

Children taken from home

after stun gun used

SWEENY, Texas - After his 8-year-old stepson missed his school bus this week,
Theodore E. Moody told the boy to walk. And to make sure he didn't dawdle, he
followed the child, shocking him repeatedly with a stun gun.

Child welfare officials removed the boy and three other children from Moody's
home near this Brazoria County town after learning that he had been disciplining
the boy with the battery-powered device.

District Attorney Jeri Yenne, who tested the device on herself to understand
what the boy felt, said she is awaiting the outcome of an investigation before
deciding whether to file charges.

Judge rules against U.S.

death penalty law

MONTPELIER, Vt. - A federal judge in Vermont has declared the federal capital
punishment law unusable, a decision that could have implications for defendants
across the country.

U.S. District Judge William Sessions ruled Tuesday that the 1994 law has been
rendered useless by a series of recent cases, including a U.S. Supreme Court
ruling in June that found juries and not judges must hand out death sentences.

The decision comes two months after U.S. District Judge Jed Rakoff in New York
became the first federal judge to declare the federal law unconstitutional. He
cited evidence indicating that innocent people have been put to death. The
government has appealed Rakoff's ruling.

Also . . .

GUNMAKERS LOSE SHIELD: Gov. Gray Davis cleared the way Wednesday for
Californians to sue gun manufacturers if they believe the companies have been
negligent in the advertising or production of firearms. The package of bills
Davis signed removes a shield granted to gunmakers regarding negligence
lawsuits. Previously, gun manufacturers could not be sued if their products were
used in the commission of a crime.

MOTHER IN BEATING VISITS GIRL: A woman caught on a department store surveillance
tape repeatedly striking her 4-year-old daughter visited the girl for about 95
minutes Wednesday. The visit was Madelyne Gorman Toogood's first chance to see
her daughter, Martha, since the girl was placed in foster care after Toogood was
charged Saturday with battery of a child. A visit Tuesday was canceled because
Martha was ill.

EX-PRIEST JAILED: A former priest who was moved from parish to parish after
admitting to Roman Catholic Cardinal Roger Mahony of Los Angeles that he
molested young boys was arrested Wednesday. Former parish priest Michael Baker
was charged with 13 counts of child molestation in connection with incidents
involving several victims from 1977 to 1985, said Sgt. Dan Scott.

KENNEDY KIN'S APPEAL: The Connecticut Supreme Court will hear the appeal of
Kennedy cousin Michael Skakel's murder conviction and denial of bail, lawyers
said Wednesday.

LOAD-DATE: September 26, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                    Copyright 2002 Times Publishing Company


                              170 of 302 DOCUMENTS

                         St. Petersburg Times (Florida)

                 September 27, 2002 Friday 2 Late Tampa Edition

3 who fled Cuba win appeal to stay in U.S.

BYLINE: GRAHAM BRINK

SECTION: TAMPA & STATE; Pg. 3B

LENGTH: 424 words

DATELINE: TAMPA


Three anti-Castro demonstrators acquitted of hijacking a plane from Cuba six
years ago have won their appeal to stay in the United States.

The Immigration and Naturalization Service had appealed a judge's 1998 ruling
that granted Adel Regalado Ulloa, Jose Roberto Bello Puente and Leonardo Reyes
Ramirez asylum.

But in a nine-page decision released Tuesday, the Board of Immigration Appeals
upheld the judge's decision, saying the men were not statutorily  barred from
asylum.

"The respondents have established their eligibility for asylum," the decision
stated. "Moreover, we find that the respondents have established that it is
clearly probable that they will be persecuted upon their return to Cuba on
account of their political opinion."

The men's attorney, Ralph Fernandez, said he was worried about the board's
decision. He said the board usually sides with the INS, which could appeal the
case further. Fernandez doubted that would happen.

"This is great news," Fernandez said. "It should end the case."

The three men fled Cuba in August 1996 in a small plane that took off from a
suburb of Havana and was ditched in the Gulf of Mexico about 30 miles west of
Fort Myers.

On their way out of Cuba, the men dropped several thousand leaflets condemning
the February 1996 attack in which Cuban MiG jets shot down two unarmed planes
from the Miami-based group Brothers to the Rescue, killing four anti-Castro
protesters.

At first, the refugees said they used a knife and gun to commandeer the plane.
Later, they said they only made up that story to protect the plane's pilot, who
they said wanted to return to Cuba.

In 1997, a federal jury acquitted the men of air piracy. The next year, U.S.
Immigration Judge Richard K. McHugh concluded that the men had a well-founded
fear of persecution if they were returned to Cuba. He based this on the men's
statements explaining their desire to escape the Castro government and their
spreading of antigovernment leaflets as they flew from Cuba.

Another factor was that Regalado had provided information to the FBI regarding
the Cuban government's downing of the four anti-Castro aviators from Miami.

The men were released from jail in December 1998. They moved to various parts of
the country to avoid retribution from Castro supporters, Fernandez said. The men
have jobs and two have continued their education.

"They are productive members of our society," Fernandez said. "This is a good
decision."

- Graham Brink can be reached at (813) 226-3365 or brink@sptimes.com

LOAD-DATE: September 27, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DISTRIBUTION: TAMPA & STATE; CITY & STATE; METRO & STATE

                    Copyright 2002 Times Publishing Company


                              171 of 302 DOCUMENTS

                         St. Petersburg Times (Florida)

               November 7, 2002 Thursday 0 South Pinellas Edition

U.S. will fingerprint "high-risk' arrivals

SOURCE: Compiled from Times Wires

SECTION: NATIONAL; Pg. 7A

LENGTH: 512 words

DATELINE: WASHINGTON; KABUL, Afghanistan


Thousands of men from five countries identified as high-risk for terrorism and
who arrived in the United States on or before Sept. 10 will have to be
fingerprinted and photographed under rules announced Wednesday by the Justice
Department.

The rules affect citizens of Iraq, Iran, Libya, Sudan or Syria at least 16 years
old who arrived before the U.S. government began registering such foreigners
this year at its borders. If they plan to stay in the United States beyond Dec.
16, these people must register with the Immigration and Naturalization Service
by that date.

About 3,000 nonresident aliens, as they are called, will have to register,
Justice Department officials said. They include students, people on long-term
travel visas, family members and others.

The requirements do not apply to permanent residents - those with INS green
cards - or to naturalized citizens from those countries. Diplomats and those
seeking asylum are also excluded.

Karzai dismisses 20

provincial officials

KABUL, Afghanistan - Two weeks after declaring war on corrupt and abusive
provincial authorities, President Hamid Karzai has ordered the dismissal of
civilian and military officials in a dozen provinces, signaling his intent to
clean up a government that is perceived in many rural areas as unresponsive and
oppressive.

The modest but unprecedented purge of about 20 officials included provincial
intelligence chiefs, military commanders and an array of local bureaucrats -
some accused of serious wrongdoing such as drug trafficking and highway
extortion, and others reported simply not to be doing their jobs.

Critics said the president's purge had not gone far or high enough, but his
aides said that by firing disreputable underlings of several regional chiefs,
including two abusive commanders who work for rival militia leaders, Karzai
sought to show he intends an even-handed crackdown rather than persecution of
individuals.

"Some people wanted the big fish caught immediately, but this is an important
first step in a hundred-mile walk," said Yusuf Pashtoon, a Cabinet minister.

Elsewhere . . .

TWO SUSPECTS FREED: Police in Lyon, France, on Wednesday freed two of eight
people arrested a day earlier in connection with a deadly Tunisia synagogue
bombing last spring that authorities have linked to the al-Qaida terrorist
network.

U.S. WARNING ISSUED: The State Department said Wednesday night the scheduled
execution of a Pakistani man in Virginia next week may trigger retaliatory
attacks against American interests overseas. A worldwide caution issued by the
department said U.S. citizens need to be vigilant and to be aware of the
"continuing threat of terrorist actions that may target civilians."

SMALLPOX VACCINE READY: The Pentagon has completed its plan for vaccinating U.S.
troops against smallpox and is awaiting White House approval before giving the
first shots, the Associated Press reported Wednesday. The Department of Health
and Human Services has set aside about 1-million doses of smallpox vaccine for
the military.

LOAD-DATE: November 7, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                    Copyright 2002 Times Publishing Company


                              172 of 302 DOCUMENTS

                         St. Petersburg Times (Florida)

               November 9, 2002 Saturday 0 South Pinellas Edition

Haitians seeking asylum no longer to go free on bail

SOURCE: Compiled from Times Wires

SECTION: NATIONAL; Pg. 3A

LENGTH: 375 words

DATELINE: WASHINGTON; ROANOKE, Va.; TRAVERSE CITY, Mich.


The Bush administration announced Friday that Haitians and others who attempt to
enter the United States illegally by sea will be detained and subject to an
expedited process to send them back home.

An Immigration and Naturalization Service statement says that even the
perception that rules are being relaxed could spur a mass migration that
threatens national security.

Although Justice Department officials said the move was made under existing
authority, immigration activists said it marked a change in that most Haitians
no longer will be able to go free on bail while awaiting the outcome of their
asylum cases.

The INS statement says that illegal migrants will be placed in expedited removal
proceedings and will probably be detained during any appeals at the discretion
of the Justice Department. This would apply to anyone arriving illegally by sea
except Cubans, who are exempted under a 1966 law.

The rules are expected to take effect sometime next week, officials said.

D-day memorial seeks bankruptcy shield

ROANOKE, Va. - The National D-Day Memorial Foundation filed for bankruptcy to
protect the $25-million monument from creditors while it contends with massive
debt, foundation officials said Friday.

The memorial, which President Bush helped dedicate June 6, 2001, has trimmed a
$7-million debt to about $4-million since acknowledging its financial troubles
last year.

It sought to reorganize with bankruptcy protection when creditors continued to
push for a regular payment agreement, said Peter Viemeister, chairman of the
foundation's board of directors.

Judge smoked pot at Stones show

TRAVERSE CITY, Mich. - A judge went on indefinite voluntary leave after
admitting smoking marijuana at a Rolling Stones concert.

A woman told court officials she saw District Judge Thomas Gilbert smoke a joint
passed along a row of people at an Oct. 12 concert in Detroit, 250 miles from
Traverse City, where Gilbert works.

The woman was from Elk Rapids, a town near Traverse City that lies within
Gilbert's district.

Gilbert, 45, admitted to the allegations during a meeting this week with Chief
District Judge Michael Haley and District Judge Thomas J. Phillips. He left the
bench on Wednesday.

LOAD-DATE: November 9, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                    Copyright 2002 Times Publishing Company


                              173 of 302 DOCUMENTS

                         St. Petersburg Times (Florida)

               November 10, 2002 Sunday 0 South Pinellas Edition

Border scrutiny snares foreign-born Canadians

BYLINE: SUSAN TAYLOR MARTIN

SECTION: NATIONAL; Pg. 1A

LENGTH: 1311 words

DATELINE: TORONTO


As vice president of a Toronto software company that does a lot of business in
the United States, Mehdi Nezarati used to travel frequently across the border.
Not any more.

Nezarati, a Canadian citizen, arrived at the Toronto airport Sept. 16 expecting
the usual quick clearance by U.S. immigration officials. Instead, they
videotaped, photographed, fingerprinted and questioned him at length. By the
time they finished, Nezarati had missed his plane to Orlando and had to take a
flight the next day - after going through another grueling interrogation.

"I have not flown back since," he says. "I told my clients, "I'm not flying into
the States. Either you come here or we conduct business by video conference.' "

The reason for his ordeal wasn't that he has a criminal history or ties to
terrorists. It was simply because of where he was born - Iran.

In a new registration policy announced on the anniversary of the Sept. 11
attacks, natives of five countries considered state sponsors of terrorism -
Iran, Iraq, Syria, Libya and Sudan - are subject to fingerprinting,
photographing and other special security checks when visiting the United States.
In addition, they must report to an immigration official on the day they leave
the country, and they can exit only through certain "ports of departure."
(Orlando is one, Tampa is not.)

The policy drew little attention until Maher Arar, a Syrian-born Canadian
citizen, was stopped by U.S. immigration agents as he tried to change planes in
New York on his way home to Ottawa. Agents accused Arar of having ties to
al-Qaida, and deported him to Syria last month without notifying Canadian
authorities. He is still in detention.

Outrage over Arar's case was fueled by reports that other Canadian citizens had
been harassed solely because of their place of birth. In a rare step, Canada
issued a travel advisory warning those of Middle Eastern descent to think twice
before crossing the border. Award-winning novelist Rohinton Mistry, a Canadian
born in India, canceled the second half of a U.S book tour, saying he had faced
"unbearable" humiliation from racial profiling in U.S. airports.

Canada's foreign minister, Bill Graham, complained to the Bush administration
that stricter security checks were unnecessary, arguing that anyone granted
Canadian citizenship had undergone rigorous scrutiny.

"Canadian citizens have a right to be treated as Canadian citizens wherever they
were born," Graham said.

But Canada has long suffered from the perception that its immigration policies
and passport controls are sufficiently loose to make it "a complete haven for
international terrorists," as talk show host Pat Buchanan put it. Last year, a
Montreal student pleaded guilty to procuring several false Canadian passports,
one of which was reportedly used by an Algerian arrested as he tried to enter
America in 1999 with enough explosives to blow up Los Angeles International
Airport.

In a news conference at the Niagara Falls, N.Y., border Thursday, U.S. Attorney
General John Ashcroft said the so-called National Security Entry-Exit
Registration system "is working extremely well." Since it began, 14,000 people
have been registered, and 179 arrested, mostly for fake documents or criminal
records apparently unrelated to terrorism.

Ashcroft insisted the system does not automatically target Canadian citizens
because of where they were born. But skepticism remains - although the travel
advisory was lifted, Canadian officials said they are still trying to clarify
the U.S. policy, especially as it affects Canadians who hold dual citizenship.

The new registration system has caused particular concern in Toronto, which has
the largest Iranian community in North America outside of Los Angeles. By some
estimates, as many as 100,000 people of Iranian descent make their home here,
many of whom left Iran long ago because of its repressive Islamic leadership and
support for Hezbollah and other terrorist groups.

"Fanaticism and radicalism - this is something most of the people here tried to
flee," says Mehdi Hatami, a computer consultant who has been a Canadian citizen
for 16 of his 45 years.

"Most of the people here brought their families to be away from that mess and
now that mess is coming here. Every Iranian-Canadian you talk to understands and
sympathizes with the United States in this matter because we have seen how
hostilities have ruined the lives of so many people in the Middle East. We are
not against increasing security - the whole issue is the way it has been
implemented."

Hatami says it makes no sense that the registration policy targets people born
in Iran, which had no known connection to the Sept. 11 attacks, while initially
exempting those from Saudi Arabia, home of 15 of the 19 hijackers. (The policy
has since been expanded to include Saudi Arabia, but not Egypt, birthplace of
lead hijacker Mohamed Atta.)

Other Iranian-Canadians say the policy also fails to distinguish between people
who fit a terrorist profile and those who regularly travel across the border to
visit family or conduct business.

Nezarati, the software executive, used to go to America at least twice a month
to see clients. "My history is quite clear with U.S. immigration because every
time I fly through they scan my passport," he says.

So Nezarati was stunned bywhat happened Sept. 16 when he arrived at Toronto's
Pearson International Airport, one of several outside the United States where
passengers can clear U.S. immigration before boarding the plane. An INS agent
questioned him extensively, then announced: "We've decided to enroll you in the
program."

Nezarati, who has not been to Iran since he left in 1981, learned with dismay
that he would have be fingerprinted, photographed and questioned every time he
entered the United States.

Nor was that the only aggravation. Because he had missed his plane, Nezarati had
to pay a $200 penalty to get another ticket for the next day. The flight to
Orlando, his planned destination, was full so he had to go to Fort Lauderdale
and rent a car. The delays also cost him two days of lost work.

Nezarati, 32, says he was treated decently by the INS agents, who themselves
seemed to regard the procedure as "silly" and apologized for putting him through
it. Still, he thinks they deliberately dragged out the questioning and seemed
unconcerned he would miss his flight.

"I did feel they were playing a bit of a waiting game - the whole thing
shouldn't have taken more than 20 minutes," says Nezarati, who was detained more
than an hour.

Iranian-born Canadian Andre Nazarian has quit going to the United States because
of the "humiliating and offensive way" he was treated by U.S. agents.

Nazarian used to travel often to America, where he owns manufacturing plants and
has many relatives, including a daughter at Princeton University. On Sept. 15,
Nazarian and several of his employees went to Pearson International to fly to
Philadelphia and then on to Amsterdam, the Netherlands. Although the others had
no problem, Nazarian, 53, was told he would be entered in the U.S. registration
program because he was born in Iran.

"I am Christian-Armenian, not even a Muslim," says Nazarian, a Canadian citizen
for more than 30 years. "They took me in and made me wait more than 2 1/2 hours.
I missed my flight and nobody seemed to care and their attitude was so arrogant
and insulting."

Told he would be subject to the same intense scrutiny every time he crossed the
border, Nazarian took back his passport and caught a direct flight to Amsterdam.
He says he might have to close his plants in the United States unless it changes
its policies.

"I don't mind Canadian or American authorities putting me through the process
once and giving me clearance. But I cannot be subject to this harassment every
time I go back and forth."

LOAD-DATE: November 10, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: PHOTO, Associated Press; PHOTO ILLUSTRATION; U.S. Attorney General John
Ashcroft discusses the passenger registration system at Niagara Falls, N.Y.   ;
This is the cover of the brochure INS gives to people who must go through
special security checks.

                    Copyright 2002 Times Publishing Company


                              174 of 302 DOCUMENTS

                         St. Petersburg Times (Florida)

              November 20, 2002 Wednesday 0 South Pinellas Edition

Arab students face hardships post-9/11

BYLINE: BILL MAXWELL

SECTION: EDITORIAL; Pg. 17A

LENGTH: 752 words

DATELINE: SAN ANGELO, Texas


Being a university professor in Texas gives me the opportunity to meet many
international students, many not even 20 years old. They have the typical
problems most students have.

But I have met a handful of foreign students who are carrying the world on their
shoulders, as it were. These young people are directly or indirectly caught in
the maze of America's tighter visa and immigration restrictions.

Life for one of my students at Angelo State University and her boyfriend, who
attends Texas A&M University, have changed drastically since the new year began.

First, some background: After the terrorists attacks of Sept. 11, 2001, the U.S.
government, once relatively friendly toward Arabs and Muslims wanting into the
country, has removed the welcome mat. The move has caused great hardship for
many Muslims with legitimate reasons for seeking our shores.

Gone is the time when seriously ill foreign Muslims, along with their trained
escorts, could obtain U.S. visas for urgent medical care in one day. Now, such
visas are taking as long as two months for approval. A U.S. diplomat based in
Saudi Arabia reports that Mohammed al-Kathiri, a Saudi journalist needing a
liver transplant, died after he was denied travel to a Houston hospital for
treatment.

Gone are many millions of dollars Muslims annually spend in the nation's tourist
industry.

Gone, too, are the days when Arab students in good academic and immigration
standing were automatically permitted to re-enter the United States to attend
fall classes.

My student, a 20-year-old, petite Jordanian, worries that her oldest brother, a
34-year-old cartographer whose kidneys are failing, will not get potentially
life-saving treatment in New York. Two months ago, his scheduled trip to the
United States appeared to be on track. Now, the family has lost hope that he
will make the trip at all.

"My brother has been to America many times," my student said. "He graduated from
the University of Miami. He has many American friends. My father is trying to
find a hospital in Canada or Europe that will take my brother before it's too
late."

If her brother's illness was not enough for her to worry about, she also fears
that she might never see her boyfriend again, without leaving America and
risking not being permitted to return.

Last summer, her boyfriend, a 22-year-old chemistry major, returned to Amman to
work in the family's clothing business until the fall semester, when he would
come back to Texas. After he had not been cleared to return to the A&M campus in
time for fall classes, he set out to find out why.

To date, my student said, her boyfriend has not received a straight answer from
the U.S. government. He might have seen College Station for the final time.

"It looks like everything bad is happening to me and other Muslims right now,"
she said. "I really can't blame America. The World Trade Center attacks made
Americans suspicious of us. How can I blame the American people? That kind of
terrorism should never happen again. But the hardship is ruining many innocent
lives. It's ruining my life.

"I'm afraid to visit my family in Jordon. I might never get back into the United
States, to Angelo State University. My whole family's counting on me to graduate
and come back home with a degree in agriculture."

If no one else is concerned about the hardships the travel restrictions are
causing in the Muslim world, Secretary of State Colin Powell, who is trying to
win friends in the Middle East as we battle with Iraq, certainly is. During a
recent comment to reporters, he acknowledged as much: "We have to protect
ourselves . . . (but) we have to do it in a way that does not shut down the
country.

"I want people to come from around the world to go to our hospitals, our
schools, to Disney World, to settle, to immigrate. . . . This is the strength of
our nation."

Through telephone interviews, I know of several other Muslim students on other
Texas campuses who are afraid to return to their homelands for just one day. A
19-year-old art major at Sul Ross State University in Alpine said: "I'm from Abu
Dhabi, the United Arab Emirates. I'm a sophomore, and I'm not going home until
after I graduate. I want to stay here in America. I have two friends who
couldn't get back in time for classes. One was at UCLA, and one was at the
University of Kentucky."

Many of the students with whom I spoke are bitter, but most have accepted the
heavy price for being an Arab student in post-Sept. 11 America.

LOAD-DATE: November 20, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                    Copyright 2002 Times Publishing Company


                              175 of 302 DOCUMENTS

                         St. Petersburg Times (Florida)

               December 5, 2002 Thursday 0 South Pinellas Edition

Citizenship records are tough to track

BYLINE: DONNA MURRAY ALLEN

SECTION: FLORIDIAN; Pg. 2D

LENGTH: 822 words


Naturalization, the process of becoming an American citizen, is one of
genealogy's most daunting research hurdles.

For starters, not all immigrants became citizens. Some filed the initial
paperwork and didn't complete the process. Others began the process in one state
and finished it in another, which complicated matters because each state had its
own way of doing things.

Citizenship papers could be filed in virtually any court having common law
jurisdiction, including local, state, federal and even admiralty court. The
filing became part of that day's docket, wedged in between other items that came
before the court that day.

Moreover, names given to the various local and state courts may have varied by
state.

Congress added to the mess by regularly creating laws after the first
naturalization act was passed in 1790.

And just as it seemed the situation couldn't get more perplexing, all the rules
changed with the formation of the Immigration and Naturalization Service in
1906.

"I find the naturalization records in many cases in a chaotic condition, many
lost and destroyed, and some sold for old paper. I find aliens naturalized under
initials instead of Christian names, surnames misspelled or changed entirely,
and the names of witnesses inserted in place of the alien."

This quote, attributed to a Justice Department investigator in 1903, appears on
the National Archives and Records Administration's Web site and aptly depicts
the mayhem you'll encounter when delving into naturalization records. (See
http://www.archives.gov/

research_room/genealogy.)

Think he was confused? In the naturalization section of the INS Web site (
http://www.ins.usdoj.gov), researchers are told that the National Archives and
Records Administration has citizenship files. The administration says it
doesn't.

(Our mole tells us that the administration has copies of naturalization papers
from 1798 to 1906 for Massachusetts, New Hampshire, Rhode Island and Maine, plus
the original records for the District of Columbia from 1802 to 1926.)

Naturalization is a complex topic. Each person's search is so individualized
that it's possible to provide only generalizations. So let's start with the
buzzwords.

Naturalization is the procedure by which a foreign-born person becomes a U.S.
citizen. Generally, the process goes like this: A person files a Declaration of
Intention. After a period of time - the number of years varies, but five is
average - a Petition for Naturalization is filed. Once the petition is granted,
a Certificate of Naturalization is issued.

The declaration and petition contain the genealogical data. There are
exceptions, most notably derivative citizenship.

From 1790 to 1922, wives of naturalized men automatically became citizens, and
from 1790 to 1940, children under 21 automatically became citizens when their
fathers were naturalized. Names of wives and children were seldom included in
the paperwork.

Exceptions were also made for veterans. Through the years, various laws were
passed to speed the naturalization process for those who served in the armed
forces. (You'll find an index to naturalization of soldiers during World War I
at the National Archives and Records Administration.)

Sometimes there is no documentation.

When the federal government annexed territories, such as Florida in 1819, Texas
in 1845 and Arizona in 1848, inhabitants became citizens. Individuals who came
to the colonies from anywhere in the British Empire before the Revolutionary War
were merely moving to another part of their country.

The key factor in determining where to look for records is 1906, when the INS
was established. With its formation came standardization. All courts began using
the same forms and guidelines.

More important, the federal government began keeping copies of naturalization
records.

Three sets of records are issued for anyone who became a citizen after 1906. The
citizen gets one set. The court of jurisdiction - usually the county of
residence - gets a set. And the INS keeps one. These files contain a copy of the
Declaration of Intention, the Petition for Naturalization and the Certificate of
Naturalization.

Coming next week: Tips on locating citizenship files.

Donna Murray Allen welcomes your questions about genealogy and will respond to
those of general interest in future columns. Sorry, she can't take phone calls,
but you can write to her c/o Floridian, St. Petersburg Times, P.O. Box 1121, St.
Petersburg, FL 33731, or e-mail her at rootscolumn@yahoo.com. You can read her
column online at  http://www.sptimes.com. Type Donna Murray Allen in the search
box.

LOAD-DATE: December 5, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                    Copyright 2002 Times Publishing Company


                              176 of 302 DOCUMENTS

                         St. Petersburg Times (Florida)

              December 12, 2002 Thursday 0 South Pinellas Edition

The search for citizenship papers

BYLINE: DONNA MURRAY ALLEN

SECTION: FLORIDIAN; Pg. 4D

LENGTH: 756 words


James Murray filed a Declaration of Intention in the District Court of Houghton
County, Mich., in 1866. He signed an Oath of Allegiance and filed a Petition for
Naturalization in the Court of Common Pleas in Fayette County, Pa., in 1872,
even though he still lived in Michigan. Why?

Who knows? Murray's machinations just go to show that citizenship
(naturalization) papers filed before 1906 can wind up anywhere. (After 1906,
it's a different story. That's the year the Immigration and Naturalization
Service was established and the citizenship process became standardized.)

There are worse experiences than trying to locate your immigrant ancestor's
citizenship papers. Sticking pins in your eyes comes to mind. And even if you do
luck out, you may be disappointed. Most records before 1906 are skimpy.

From Murray's file, I learned only that he was born in Ireland and his
approximate date of arrival in America.

Later records, though, contain the applicant's name and address, nationality,
country of immigration, birth date, marital status and the names of his or her
spouse and children, making the paper chase worthwhile.

For basic information about citizenship, log on to  http://www.archives.gov/
research_room/ genealogy/research_topics/ naturalization_records.html and
http://www.ins.usdoj.gov.

In Murray's case, I simply waltzed into the Prothonotary Office at the county
courthouse and plucked his paperwork from a tidy file that's alphabetized by
surname. Piece of cake. Of course he turned out to be someone else's ancestor.
(No, I don't know why they call it a Prothonotary Office. I can't even pronounce
it.)

Paperwork not at the courthouse? Head for the state and regional archives.

If you're researching from afar, see what microfilmed records and books of
compiled records you can find at your local library and Mormon Family History
Center. Online? Visit the pertinent county genealogy site. Many offer full or
partial indexes of local courthouse records. If you get a hit, write to the
courthouse and request the files.

You might get a lead from the 1900, 1910, 1920 and 1930 census rolls. Questions
about citizenship were asked. The records should indicate whether the residents
were foreign-born, year of immigration and whether they were naturalized.

In both 1910 and 1920, residents were asked if English was their native language
and, if not, what language was spoken.

Use census records only as guidelines. Census takers were not particularly
diligent. But even if his spelling was atrocious and he used Austria and Hungary
synonymously, you'll at least have a star on pinpointing the ancestral homeland.

It's a long shot, but your ancestor might have left some worldly goods to an
heir in the "old country." Check wills and probate records just in case. Look at
voting records, too. Only citizens could vote and hold public office. Local
history books, though often inaccurate, are possible sources. So are obituaries
and family Bibles.

No matter what records you dig up, don't jump to conclusions. The biggest
mistake novices make is ending their research prematurely. Too many people in
the same area shared the same name, particularly since immigrants from the same
country tended to live near one another.

If your ancestor became a citizen after 1906, the INS should have a copy of the
paperwork. Three separate sets of records are issued. One goes to the citizen.
The court of jurisdiction - usually the county courthouse of residence - gets
one. The INS keeps the other one.

For those who filed papers between 1906 and 1956, the record should be at the
INS office in Washington. Call (202) 514-1722 for details on obtaining a copy.

For records after 1956, write to the appropriate district INS office. (In
Florida: Immigration and Naturalization Service, 7880 Biscayne Blvd., Miami, FL
33138).

Donna Murray Allen welcomes your questions about genealogy and will respond to
those of general interest in future columns. Sorry, she can't take phone calls,
but you can write to her c/o Floridian, St. Petersburg Times, P.O. Box 1121, St.
Petersburg, FL 33731, or e-mail her at rootscolumn@yahoo.com. You can read her
column online at  http://www.sptimes.com. Type Donna Murray Allen in the search
box.

LOAD-DATE: December 12, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                    Copyright 2002 Times Publishing Company


                              177 of 302 DOCUMENTS

                         St. Petersburg Times (Florida)

               December 17, 2002 Tuesday 0 South Pinellas Edition

Al-Qaida operating in Canada

SOURCE: Compiled from Times Wires

SECTION: NATIONAL; Pg. 8A

LENGTH: 284 words

DATELINE: MONTREAL; WASHINGTON


Canadian intelligence authorities said Monday that al-Qaida is operating in
Canada and has the capacity to support terrorist activities across North
America.

The assessment, by the Canadian Security and Intelligence Service, was contained
in court documents released in connection with the detention of an Algerian
immigrant suspected of ties to the group's senior members, including Abu
Zubaydah, a lieutenant of Osama bin Laden. Zubaydah is being held at an
undisclosed location by U.S. authorities.

The Algerian, Mohammed Harkat, 34, of Ottawa, was described in the documents as
a member of al-Qaida whose ties to Zubaydah date to the early 1990s. Harkat was
taken into custody last week and faces deportation. He has not been charged with
a crime.

The intelligence service said bin Laden's supporters and network "have the
capability and conviction to provide support for terrorist activities in North
America."

Saudi, Pakistani men in

U.S. required to register

WASHINGTON - Men in the United States who are from Saudi Arabia and Pakistan
will be required to register with the government under a program intended to
fingerprint and photograph those from countries considered high risk for
terrorists.

The addition Monday of Saudi Arabia and Pakistan brings to 20 the number of
countries covered under the registration program.

Those who fail to register can be deported. The program does not apply to
permanent residents, men with INS "green cards," or to naturalized citizens.

The other countries are: Afghanistan, Algeria, Bahrain, Eritrea, Lebanon, Libya,
Iran, Iraq, Morocco, North Korea, Oman, Qatar, Somalia, Sudan, Syria, Tunisia,
the United Arab Emirates and Yemen.

LOAD-DATE: December 17, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                    Copyright 2002 Times Publishing Company


                              178 of 302 DOCUMENTS

                         St. Petersburg Times (Florida)

               January 16, 2003 Thursday 0 South Pinellas Edition

USF student hopes for second chance

BYLINE: SAUNDRA AMRHEIN

SECTION: CITY & STATE; Pg. 3B

LENGTH: 418 words


A University of South Florida student facing deportation to Syria could benefit
from a second chance being given to men from Arab and Muslim countries who
missed deadlines to register with the Immigration and Naturalization Service.

The Los Angeles Times is reporting that the Justice Department plans to announce
on Thursday that men from 18 countries who missed previous registration
deadlines will have another opportunity to report between Jan. 27 and Feb. 7,
without facing a penalty for having failed to come forward.

Abdullah Hatahet, 22, missed the deadline on Dec. 16 by one day because he
stayed up all night to finish a project in order to graduate from USF. When he
went to the Tampa INS office the next day, he was detained for four days and
told he could be deported.

When told of the development on Wednesday night, he said: "Oh my God, you think
that includes me?"

His attorney does. Tampa immigration attorney John Ovink, contacted by phone,
said the development should apply to Hatahet. Ovink had plans to meet with Tampa
INS officials later this week to ask them to restore Hatahet's student status
after government prosecutors refused to drop the case this week.

"It's a minor drop of justice in a totally unjust and unjustifiable measure,"
Ovink said.

The controversial reporting requirement will be extended to more nationalities,
the Justice Department will announce Thursday, according to the Los Angeles
Times.

Men from Egypt, Kuwait, Jordan, Indonesia and Bangladesh will now have to
register with the INS, according to official notices readied for publication in
the Federal Register.

Men from other countries who already missed earlier deadlines to register will
get another chance. The registration was launched last year by Attorney General
John Ashcroft to improve haphazard tracking of foreign visitors.

The program gained national notoriety after hundreds of men were detained in the
first phase of registration last month. None was on a terrorist watch list.

Hatahet was ecstatic when reached on his cell phone driving from a friend's
house to the home where he lives in Tampa with an aunt and uncle.

"Oh my God, that's some good news. That means it's almost over," he said. If
Ovink can verify with the INS that his case would be dropped later this week or
early next week, Hatahet said, he'll pursue his plans to get an internship and
then enroll in USF's master's degree program.

"I'm going to call my family and tell them the good news," he said.

LOAD-DATE: January 16, 2003

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DISTRIBUTION: CITY & STATE; METRO & STATE; TAMPA & STATE

GRAPHIC: PHOTO, JOHN PENDYGRAFT; USF student Abdullah Hatahet

                    Copyright 2003 Times Publishing Company


                              179 of 302 DOCUMENTS

                         St. Petersburg Times (Florida)

               January 30, 2003 Thursday 0 South Pinellas Edition

Archdiocese plans to sell assets

SOURCE: Compiled from Times Wires

SECTION: NATIONAL; Pg. 7A

LENGTH: 723 words

DATELINE: BOSTON; PHOENIX; ALEXANDRIA, Va.; HOUSTON; EL PASO, Texas


Bishop Richard Lennon, appointed seven weeks ago to run the Archdiocese of
Boston after Cardinal Bernard Law resigned, said Wednesday he has received
permission to sell 11 church properties to help cover the mounting sex abuse
claims against clergy.

In an interview with the Associated Press, Lennon said that the College of
Consultors, an advisory group that must approve putting the properties on the
market, agreed to the idea two weeks ago.

He would not identify the properties - except to say they were little used - and
said he expected the sales to raise $10-million to $15-million.

Archdiocesan leaders have not ruled out filing for bankruptcy protection, an
idea that was criticized when Law floated it.

Smugglers hold illegal

immigrants hostage

PHOENIX - About 60 illegal immigrants were held hostage in a Phoenix house while
smugglers demanded payment from their families, police said Wednesday.

Police said a man who was being held at the house escaped Tuesday afternoon and
called 911. Investigators found about 60 immigrants and four smugglers in the
home, Detective Tony Morales said.

One of the smugglers was booked on suspicion of sexually assaulting a woman held
at the house. Except for the victim and assailant, everyone found in the house
was turned over to immigration authorities, police said.

Internet spying alleged

at espionage trial

ALEXANDRIA, Va. - A former Air Force investigator demonstrated for jurors
Wednesday how prosecutors say spy suspect Brian Patrick Regan obtained off the
Internet classified satellite photos of missile sites in Iraq and China.

Using a laptop computer, Bret Padres, a former military computer expert, showed
how he said Regan used a classified Internet system to search the National
Imagery Mapping Agency for the satellite photos. Regan also sought information
about Iran and Libya, Padres said.

On the third day of testimony in Regan's espionage trial, Padres showed the
satellite images that he said Regan obtained during his searches.

Christian denominations

plan national alliance

Church leaders from 30 denominations agreed Wednesday on a proposal to create
the broadest alliance of Christians ever formed in the United States.

The steering committee of the budding effort, tentatively called Christian
Churches Together in the U.S.A., will invite a wide range of national church
bodies and agencies over the next several weeks to join them.

The loosely knit alliance would represent five segments of U.S. Christianity,
listed in the plan as "Evangelical/Pentecostal, Historic Protestant, Orthodox,
Racial/Ethnic and Roman Catholic."

The proposal being sent to churches says that, in the early stages, the alliance
will exist mostly for common worship, fellowship and dialogue on "commonalities"
and "differences." Later, it would become more active in "speaking to society
with a common voice, whenever possible," and sponsor forums where Christians
could address specific issues.

Victim's daughter testifies

at stepmother's trial

HOUSTON - A woman who had just caught her husband with his paramour aimed her
Mercedes-Benz at him and ran him over as he pleaded for her to stop, the man's
daughter, a passenger in the car, testified Wednesday.

"She stepped on the accelerator and went straight for him," Lindsey Harris, 17,
said at her stepmother's murder trial. "He was really scared. He was trying to
get away and he couldn't."

Clara Harris, 44, is accused of intentionally running over her husband, David
Harris, in a hotel parking lot July 24. She has said her husband's death was an
accident.

Student protest turns

violent; nearly 30 hurt

EL PASO, Texas - A protest by about 1,000 high school students over a change in
class schedules turned into a rock- and bottle-throwing melee Wednesday. About
10 people were arrested and nearly 30 injured.

"Students began attacking security personnel with rocks and glass bottles,"
police spokesman Javier Sambrano said.

Police used tear gas to control the crowd and about 20 Montwood High School
students who were exposed were treated at the scene, Sambrano said. Seven police
officers were treated for cuts and bruises.

About 10 people were arrested, including at least one adult, Sambrano said. The
school was closed and students sent home.

LOAD-DATE: January 30, 2003

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: DIGEST

                    Copyright 2003 Times Publishing Company


                              180 of 302 DOCUMENTS

                         St. Petersburg Times (Florida)

               January 31, 2003 Friday 4 State / Suncoast Edition

NOTEBOOK

SOURCE: Compiled from Times Wires

SECTION: NATIONAL; Pg. 8A

LENGTH: 153 words


Also . . .

DEADLINE EXTENDED: The Immigration and Naturalization Service, which is
launching a new automated system to track foreign students, has given colleges
until Feb. 15 to comply, extending the deadline by two weeks of technical
problems.

The INS had set Thursday as the deadline for schools to use the Internet-based
Student and Exchange Visitor Information System, designed to keep up-to-date
information on foreigners who apply for and receive student visas. Mandated by
Congress, the system will track an estimated 1-million foreign students and
replace a paper-based monitoring system that's been plagued by problems.

Although INS has authorized more than 3,000 schools to use SEVIS, there were
indications that the agency would have trouble meeting its deadline.

Some school officials already using the system complained that it froze for long
periods or was "unavailable" to receive data.

LOAD-DATE: January 31, 2003

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

SERIES: NOTEBOOK

TYPE: DIGEST

                    Copyright 2003 Times Publishing Company


                              181 of 302 DOCUMENTS

                         St. Petersburg Times (Florida)

                February 2, 2003 Sunday 0 South Pinellas Edition

Backlog slows system for tracking students

SOURCE: Compiled from Times Wires

SECTION: NATIONAL; Pg. 22A

LENGTH: 617 words

DATELINE: WASHINGTON; NEW YORK


Backlogged in its efforts to give colleges approval to use a new electronic
tracking system for foreign students, the Immigration and Naturalization Service
has announced a two-week extension of the deadline for institutions to begin
using the system.

The $36-million Student and Exchange Visitor System, or Sevis, was to become the
sole mechanism for schools to transmit information about the identities,
addresses and academic standing of nearly 1-million foreign students and
scholars on their campuses by midnight Thursday.

While the immigration service has given approval to 3,400 high schools,
colleges, universities and trade schools to use Sevis, more than 2,000 are still
awaiting permission, said Christopher Bentley, an agency spokesman. Without it,
the institutions may not accept new foreign students.

Moreover, as the immigration service has allowed more institutions to log on,
complaints that the system appeared slow and overloaded have grown.

At the University of Minnesota, which only last week received approval to log
on, officials have been unable to enter information on foreign students
altogether, said Kay Thomas, director of the office for international students.
"The system really is jammed with users trying to get on," Thomas said. "It's
just unbelievably slow."

Bentley said the grace period "is to allow schools to use the system before it
actually goes real Feb. 15."

He said the two weeks would allow schools more time to test the system and work
with the Sevis help desk.

The system was conceived after the first World Trade Center bombing, in 1993,
and became a priority after Sept. 11. It is an effort to close the loopholes in
the student visa system. The system links the immigration service to campuses
across the country, which can instantly transmit information about foreign
students.

An estimated 900 of the institutions awaiting approval to use the system are
reported to have applied for certification before Nov. 15. The immigration
service had guaranteed a decision on using Sevis by Jan. 30.

Virtually until the final hour, the immigration service had maintained that it
would meet its own deadlines.

After initially announcing that it was extending the deadline for institutions
that had already been approved to enter their data, the immigration service late
Friday afternoon advised the Association of International Educators that it was
also extending the deadlines for itself to approve applications.

Al-Qaida member pleads guilty to conspiracy

NEW YORK - An al-Qaida operative pleaded guilty to conspiring to destroy
national defense materials, a crime that carries a maximum jail sentence of 10
years.

Speaking before Judge Kevin Thomas Duffy in Federal District Court on Friday,
the defendant, Mohamed Suleiman al Nalfi, said he worked for Osama bin Laden's
al-Qaida network in his native Sudan in the early 1990s.

He also said he created a jihad group in Sudan in 1989 and helped to build
businesses in Sudan that backed al-Qaida. The government has said al-Qaida used
these businesses as a front to procure explosives, chemicals and weapons.

In 1990, al Nalfi and others traveled from Sudan to Egypt in a caravan of camels
to "establish a route to be used by al-Qaida . . . to move weapons without
detection," he said. In addition, al Nalfi said he attended a meeting in 1992
where al-Qaida officials spoke about ways of forcibly removing American and U.N.
forces from Somalia and Saudi Arabia.

One of the last al-Qaida operatives being held in Manhattan on criminal charges,
al Nalfi, 40, was originally arrested in 2000 in a case that included the 1998
bombings of two American embassies in East Africa.

LOAD-DATE: February 2, 2003

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: DIGEST

                    Copyright 2003 Times Publishing Company


                              182 of 302 DOCUMENTS

                         St. Petersburg Times (Florida)

              February 5, 2003 Wednesday 0 South Pinellas Edition

INS saboteurs

SECTION: EDITORIAL; Pg. 14A

LENGTH: 429 words


As Congress considered overhauling the bumbling Immigration and Naturalization
Service last April, lawmakers played around with the agency's acronym: "Ignoring
National Security" and "Incompetent and Negligent Service." The taunts were
well-deserved.

The INS has a history of excessive delays and shoddy record-keeping. Until Sept.
11, those problems seemed frustratingly endemic but not a national priority. Now
we know better. But after more than a year of talk by the administration and the
Congress about putting the agency at the top of Washington's "must-fix" list,
things have gotten worse, not better. Delays are longer, rules are stricter, and
the basic work of processing documents and applications seems even more
haphazard.

Incompetence is only part of the problem. Now we learn that some INS workers
have been sabotaging the process. Last month, a federal indictment was handed
down against two INS workers in California accused of deliberately shredding up
to 90,000 documents to eliminate a paperwork backlog.

The material destroyed, including asylum applications, birth certificates,
passports and other identification that was submitted to support citizenship and
visa applications, represents the dream of legal status for thousands of people.

The workers who engaged in the illegal destruction of documents are up on
criminal charges, but that should not be the end of government's response to
this outrage. Although the INS claims it has reconstructed most of the destroyed
files, the agency needs to accommodate immigrants who say their paperwork has
been lost.

The sad irony of dealing with the INS is that immigrants are held to rigid
technical requirements and may be deported for missing a simple filing deadline,
while the agency is constantly losing records and taking years to process
paperwork that should take months.

According to an investigation by the Village Voice, after Attorney General John
Ashcroft ordered foreigners living in the United States to report any change of
address, the agency was inundated with 700,000 submissions that have yet to be
processed. As with other backlogs, foreigners who are studying or working here
legally have to worry about being deported due to INS inefficiency.

Record-keeping problems are nothing new at the INS, but the government's new
antiterror campaign means even more paperwork is being dumped on an already
overburdened system.

Two desperate - and dishonest - employees saw document-shredding as a way to
manage an overwhelming workload. There is something seriously wrong here.

LOAD-DATE: February 5, 2003

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

SERIES: EDITORIALS

TYPE: EDITORIAL

                    Copyright 2003 Times Publishing Company


                              183 of 302 DOCUMENTS

                         St. Petersburg Times (Florida)

                            February 7, 2003 Friday

Road to citizenship

BYLINE: SHANNON COLAVECCHIO-VAN SICKLER

SECTION: BRANDON TIMES; Pg. 8

LENGTH: 688 words

DATELINE: GIBSONTON


Steve Fierro has always wanted to be a businessman. And he has always known he
would be happiest helping his community,  with the same enthusiasm that his
mother helped their South Bronx neighborhood during his childhood.

So to Fierro and his wife, it seemed fitting to pour $5,000 of their "nest egg"
into Simple Solution, a 3-month-old business that guides local immigrants
through the complicated process of becoming U.S. citizens.

Out of a small storefront on U.S. 41 in Gibsonton, Fierro, 34, takes pictures
for passports, immigration forms and ID cards. Fluent in Spanish, he helps
people fill out immigration forms, and copies and faxes documents for customers.
His wife, Monica, a Palm River Elementary teacher by day, moonlights as a
notary.

"I don't charge anything to listen, or to just sit and talk and try to answer
some of their questions," he said. "I'm not a lawyer, but I can show people
where to go for help. They come in here desperate sometimes."

Fierro said he keeps his prices "reasonable," because he knows his customers
don't have much to spare.

"It's bad enough for them to pay all the filing fees," he said.

The INS would not comment specifically on Fierro's business, but Florida
spokeswoman Barbara Gonzalez said the agency encourages people who need help to
contact the Florida Bar to determine whether an organization is acting lawfully.

The application and processing fee to become a U.S. citizen is $238, according
to the INS. A green card, the document that gives an immigrant the legal right
to live and work permanently in the United States, costs $96.

To renew a green card, Fierro charges $35 to fill out the customer's two-page
application, make any necessary copies or faxes, and take photos.

Since he opened in November, Fierro has heard from area residents - most of them
Mexican - who are confused, frustrated or overwhelmed by what's required to
become a citizen. He hears from people who failed the citizenship test not
because they didn't know the answers, he said, but because some of the questions
were beyond their new English skills.

"So my wife and I are thinking of offering an English tutoring class," Fierro
said. "I'll keep adding services as I see the need."

Fierro, a longtime security officer, and his wife moved to Brandon from Miami
about a year ago. He got the idea for Simple Solution at work - he is a security
officer at the INS support center in Brandon.

"People would come in and their forms were all messed up, or they didn't know
what documents they needed, or their pictures were wrong," Fierro said. "So I
told my wife, "We can serve this community and fill a need.' "

Simple Solution reminds Fierro of his mother, Magda, who recently died.

"She was always helping people, and she helped bring the Bronx back a little
bit," he said. "My friends see me now with this business, and say, "Look, you're
just like your mother.' That feels good."

- Staff researcher John Martin contributed to this report. Shannon
Colavecchio-Van Sickler can be reached at 661-2426 or svansickler@sptimes.com.

To contact Simple Solution, 10013 U.S. 41 S, call 741-9005, or e-mail owner
Steve Fierro at SSimpleSolution@aol.com.

For information about the Immigration and Naturalization Service forms, fees and
fingerprints, visit  http://www.ins.gov/graphics/formsfee/index.htm.

The Tampa Sub Office of the INS, at 5524 W Cypress St., serves Citrus, Hernando,
Pasco, Pinellas, Hillsborough, Polk, Hardee, Manatee, Sarasota, De Soto,
Charlotte and Lee counties. The office is open from 7:30 a.m. to 4 p.m. Monday
through Friday. Call the National Customer Service Center toll-free at
1-800-375-5283 between 9 a.m. and 5 p.m. Monday through Friday for more
information.

The Tampa Application Support Center, where applicants can get fingerprinted, is
at Bay Plaza 1, Suite 401, 9225 Bay Plaza Blvd. You must have an appointment.
Call the National Customer Service Center to schedule an appointment.

LOAD-DATE: February 7, 2003

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

SERIES: COMMUNITY REPORT: GIBSONTON

GRAPHIC: PHOTO, JOHN PENDYGRAFT; Steve Fierro

                    Copyright 2003 Times Publishing Company


                              184 of 302 DOCUMENTS

                         St. Petersburg Times (Florida)

                            February 16, 2003 Sunday

Ellis Island museum seeks oral histories

SECTION: TRAVEL; Pg. 2E

LENGTH: 182 words


The National Park Service, which maintains and operates the Immigration Museum
at Ellis Island in New York Harbor, is seeking more oral histories from those
who immigrated through the facility. An article published in Travel recounted
one woman's memories, which are among those recorded for museum visitors to
hear.

Anyone interested in being interviewed for the ongoing project should contact
Janet Levine, in charge of the Oral History Program, at:

Ellis Island Immigration Museum

Statue of Liberty National Monument

New York, NY 10004

Readers can call her (212) 363-3206, ext. 157, or send e-mail to
janet_levine@nps.gov.

"No matter how briefly they were on Ellis Island, and even if they do not
remember some things, I would still like to interview them, either on Ellis
Island or in Florida," Levine said. "Dates for trips to Florida are uncertain
now."

Those who are interviewed tell their stories, which can be selected to be
preserved for posterity at the Ellis Island Museum. An audio cassette of the
interview will be sent to each person interviewed, Levine said.

LOAD-DATE: February 16, 2003

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                    Copyright 2003 Times Publishing Company


                              185 of 302 DOCUMENTS

                         St. Petersburg Times (Florida)

                 March 9, 2003 Sunday 0 South Pinellas Edition

Minister rejects idea of security perimeter

BYLINE: JIM FOX

SECTION: NATIONAL; Pg. 9A

LENGTH: 523 words


Canada is rejecting calls for a North American security perimeter while moving
ahead with harmonized security at ports.

Immigration Minister Denis Coderre rejected calls for the perimeter aimed at
ensuring the free flow of people, goods and services across the Canada-U.S.
border.

"The United States is our friend, not our boss," Coderre said.

The province of Ontario wants the Canadian government to standardize customs and
immigration procedures with those of the United States. Premier Ernie Eves said
a security perimeter would create "a zone of comfort for our American friends."

While saying he recognizes the importance of tighter security, Coderre said
having Washington dictate Canadian immigration and customs policies isn't the
answer.

Heightened border security after the Sept. 11 attacks led to long tie-ups at
border crossings while recent tightened measures are again slowing things down.

Meanwhile, port officials in Halifax and Montreal are developing a system to
track goods from overseas factories through Canadian ports to their final
destinations in the United States. This would check for contraband goods,
stowaways and possible radioactive "dirty bombs."

In brief

+ Bombardier Inc. will lay off 3,000 more workers at aerospace plants in Canada
and Northern Ireland. About 1,800 workers in Montreal and Toronto will be
affected. The cuts represent 10 percent of the work force and follow 5,000
layoffs since Sept. 11, 2001, due to a drop in business.

+ Air Canada is boosting its domestic fuel surcharge by $20 in response to
soaring prices. The surcharge rises to $50 effective Monday on return flights of
more than 300 miles. For shorter distances, the surcharge remains $30.

+ Sherritt International will spend $110-million to develop its oil and gas
holdings in Cuba this year. The Toronto company, which supplies electricity in
Cuba, is also involved in nickel mining, hotels and tourism, soybean processing
and wireless phone service in the Caribbean country.

+ The federal and British Columbia governments will upgrade roads in Vancouver
and the scenic but narrow and winding Kicking Horse Pass section of the
Trans-Canada Highway. Twinning the two branches of the Trans-Canada in
Saskatchewan will be completed along with work on Highway 39, the main road to
the United States.

Facts and figures

Canada's central bank raised its key interest rate by 0.25 percent to 3 percent,
the first increase since last summer, in a bid to cool inflationary pressures.
Commercial banks then raised the prime lending rate by a similar amount to 4.75
percent.

Good employment news Friday pushed the dollar to 68.24 U.S. cents, the highest
since July 2000. The U.S. dollar returns $1.4654 Canadian, before bank exchange
fees. Statistics Canada reported that 55,000 jobs were created last month as the
jobless rate remained at 7.4 percent.

Canadian stock exchanges were lower, with the Toronto index at 6,359 points and
the Canadian Venture Exchange 1,086 points.

Lotto 6-49: (Wednesday) 6, 8, 19, 27, 45, 46; bonus 34. (March 1) 5, 17, 22, 34,
40, 47; bonus 45.


LOAD-DATE: March 9, 2003

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

SERIES: THE CANADA REPORT

                    Copyright 2003 Times Publishing Company


                              186 of 302 DOCUMENTS

                         St. Petersburg Times (Florida)

                March 11, 2003 Tuesday 0 South Pinellas Edition

Foreign citizens help shoulder military duty

BYLINE: WES ALLISON

SECTION: NATIONAL; Pg. 1A

LENGTH: 898 words

DATELINE: CAMP UDAIRI, Kuwait


If U.S. forces attack Iraq, Americans won't be the only ones on the front lines.
Citizens of Romania, Mexico, Germany, Vietnam and even Kuwait will be fighting
right alongside them.

In the thick book of rules that governs the lives of U.S. soldiers, there's
nothing that says they must be American. And some 31,000 active duty personnel
are not, the Pentagon says.

As U.S. troops mass in preparation for possible war with Iraq, it's common to
run into noncitizens in desert camouflage at the string of dusty American
military posts lining the border between Kuwait and Iraq.

You can find Jamaicans in a transportation unit deployed from Germany; a Mexican
mechanic in the 101st Airborne Division's supply headquarters; and a German in
one of the same Airborne infantry units that caused his grandfather's generation
so much trouble during the Battle of the Bulge, almost 60 years ago.

For immigrants, joining the military promises a fast track to citizenship,
especially under regulations issued last year by President Bush.

It also offers the same opportunities the armed forces have pitched to young
Americans for decades: money for college, free training, and a chance to see the
world.

"They say go to the Army, and when you get out, you get priority for jobs," said
Pfc. Bao Bui, 23, a native of Longthanh, Vietnam, and a supply specialist for
the 101st Airborne.

Bui, who immigrated to California with his mother, was promised $33,000 for
tuition in exchange for three years of service when he enlisted in early 2001.
He has since applied for U.S. citizenship.

So has Sgt. Ernesto Hernandez, 26, a Mexican who calls Temple, Texas home.

Hernandez said he knows several Latino immigrants who have joined the Army,
mainly to help their case for citizenship.

He also saw the Army as a constructive alternative to the low-wage, low-skill
jobs many immigrants take, such as "working at Wal-Mart, changing oil or working
at McDonald's." He is now a vehicle mechanic for the 101st Airborne, and
deployed to Kuwait 10 days ago.

"It's not a bad deal," Hernandez said. He snapped his fingers. "Especially with
everybody speaking English, you pick it up like that."

Commanders say many immigrants have a finer appreciation for the ideals the
military purports to fight for - freedom and democracy - than many native-born
Americans.

"In many cases, they have a personal experience from living in an area where
they didn't have that freedom and liberty," said Lt. Col. Keith Pickens, chief
of staff for the division rear command of the 101st Airborne. During Desert
Storm, his tank platoon included a Filipino supply sergeant.

"They're a lot closer to the American founding fathers than the average American
might be," Pickens said. "They have a greater appreciation for Democratic
freedom."

Sgt. Izabella Gibson, 33, a Romanian, came of age behind the old Soviet Iron
Curtain. She immigrated first to Germany, then joined the U.S. Army there 18
months ago.

Now she's serving in Kuwait with the 627th Combat Mobility Team, keeping track
of cargo and troops arriving at Camp Udairi. She applied for citizenship last
year, soon after joining, and hopes to be approved within a year, so she can
apply to become a warrant officer.

"I said okay, I join up for four years, and I finish my college, and I see how
it's going. I like being around the Army," Gibson said.

"We're here with everybody else, and we do the same thing as everybody else, and
I think it will go faster to get my citizenship."

Typically, legal resident aliens can apply for citizenship after they live in
the United States for five years. Those in the military could apply after three
years, and commanding officers often helped them through the process.

Last year, Bush issued an executive order allowing noncitizen soldiers to apply
immediately and providing government help with their applications.

This affects about 18,000 troops, including those deployed to the Middle East,
the Pentagon said.

Noncitizens do face some restrictions. Unless they become citizens, they cannot
serve more than eight years or become officers, nor do they get access to
classified information.

Otherwise, immigrants say, they are treated just like everyone else.

"In Germany, you feel like you don't belong there. It's just the way the Germans
are," said Gibson, who married an American. "But with Americans, it's not that
way. . . . There are so many foreign people in the Army - Hispanic, Asian - it
doesn't matter. We get along, all of us."

But Sgt. Christine Allen, 32, a native of Jamaica who serves in Gibson's
transportation unit, cautioned against joining the military simply to become a
U.S. citizen.

She joined in 1990 and enjoys it, she said, but Army life is hard for those who
aren't committed to it. And even being in the Army doesn't mean the citizenship
process will go smoothly.

She applied for citizenship in 1996. Two years later, she got word from the U.S.
Immigration and Naturalization Service that she needed to fly from her post in
Germany to the INS center in Miami for an interview - three days later.

When she arrived, the agency wasn't ready for her, she said. Twice she had to
fly to Miami from Germany.

"The Army is supposed to help, but they don't help," Allen said. "They did
nothing. Go for college, that's better."

- Times researcher Cathy Wos contributed to this report.

LOAD-DATE: March 11, 2003

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

SERIES: DISPATCH FROM THE 101ST AIRBORNE

                    Copyright 2003 Times Publishing Company


                              187 of 302 DOCUMENTS

                         St. Petersburg Times (Florida)

                 March 21, 2003 Friday 0 South Pinellas Edition

Manatee detainees get no TV

BYLINE: TAMARA LUSH

SECTION: NATIONAL; Pg. 16A

LENGTH: 318 words


Manatee County inmates can't watch television or have visitors because of the
war.

About 400 of the 1,500 inmates at the county jail in Bradenton are being
detained on federal immigration violations, said Manatee County Sheriff's Office
spokesman Randy Warren.

Jail officials are worried about potential security risks because those
detainees are from several different countries, including the Middle East.

"Honestly, we don't think we would be a target of terrorism," Warren said. "It's
a precautionary measure."

The inmates are not allowed to have visitors other than their lawyers. They also
are not allowed to watch the war - or anything else - on television.

"Just for the time being, we're limiting the amount of information" that is
available to the inmates, Warren said.

The lockdown will continue indefinitely, Warren said.

At least one high-profile detainee was held in Bradenton: Mazen Al-Najjar,
formerly of Tampa. He came to the United States in 1981 but overstayed a student
visa. Al-Najjar was jailed in 1997 on classified evidence that allegedly linked
him to the Palestinian terrorist group Islamic Jihad. He was never charged, and
he was deported last year.

Warren didn't know how many of the immigration detainees were from Middle
Eastern countries. Many of the detainees are from Central America and Mexico, he
said.

Warren also didn't know if any Iraqi citizens recently had been booked into the
facility.

Thursday, teams of agents from the Bureau of Immigrations, Customs and
Enforcement began looking for Iraqi citizens who are in the United States
illegally.

Mike Gilhooly,  spokesman for the eastern office of Immigration, Customs and
Enforcement, would not say if or where Iraqis were questioned or detained on
Thursday.

"The Iraqis that are targeted were identified using a range of intelligence
criteria," Gilhooly said. "All are in the country illegally."

LOAD-DATE: March 21, 2003

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

SERIES: WAR WITH IRAQ: LOCAL REACTION

                    Copyright 2003 Times Publishing Company


                              188 of 302 DOCUMENTS

                         St. Petersburg Times (Florida)

                 April 20, 2003 Sunday 0 South Pinellas Edition

Immigration Service to contact teens about green cards

BYLINE: NANCY PARADIS

SECTION: FLORIDIAN; Pg. 2F

LENGTH: 1121 words


I am writing to you out of desperation. I am a divorced single mother with
leukemia, raising two teenage daughters. I am an American citizen born in
Illinois. I moved to Florida with my family from Canada in July 1990.

At that time I applied and paid for landed immigrant status and citizenship for
my then-husband and our daughters, Tiffany and Jennifer Perez. We applied for
and received Social Security numbers for all that stated "not eligible for
employment" above the numbers. All this did was enable us to register the girls
in school. I found full-time employment and supported my family while waiting
for their green cards.

In December 1990, we were granted an interview for landed immigrant status for
my husband only. At the interview, we inquired why the girls were not granted
this status. We were told that the girls could continue in school and would be
sworn in as American citizens at the same time as their father without further
paperwork or cost. We were assured this would be done long before the girls
graduated from high school.

In May 1996, I was diagnosed with breast cancer, and my husband and I separated.
Both children resided with me without child support. I maintained full-time
employment while undergoing surgery and treatment, and I informed Immigration
that my husband and I had separated. We divorced in February 2000, and I was
granted child support.

My ex-husband received notification in April 2000 that he and the girls would be
sworn in as American citizens on May 2, 2000. My employer would not give me the
day off to attend this wonderful event with my children, so their father agreed
to pick them up at 9 a.m. to attend the ceremony at Immigration. At 11 a.m., the
girls called me at work because their father had not picked them up.

Since that day, I have written many letters and made many phone calls to
Immigration with no response or acknowledgement. What happened to the
application and the medical exam we paid for? Where is all the girls' paperwork?

This has presented a great hardship for my daughters and myself. I have two
wonderful girls who have been able to maintain a 4.0 grade point average and
accumulate scholarships for college while caring for me during my illness and
many treatments. Without landed immigrant status or American citizenship, my
children have not been able to obtain Florida ID cards, driver's licenses or
employment. They cannot return to Canada alone, yet they cannot continue their
life here with me without a green card.

In May 2000, after learning from an Immigration counselor that there is no
longer a paper trail for my children, I had no choice but to reapply for landed
immigrant status for them. I sent the applications along with a Visa check for
the filing fee in August 2002. Everything was returned to me in December with
the explanation that Immigration would accept only a money order.

I had to wait until I received my income tax refund in February before mailing
the applications back with a money order for the $260 filing fee. I had hoped
that the girls would receive their landed immigrant status in about six months,
as their father did in 1990. Tiffany could then go to college after she
graduates in May.

To our dismay, we received a "Notice of Action" from Immigration stating that it
will take 500 to 600 days for this kind of case. What kind of case is this? Both
girls have lived in Florida since 1990. They have done well in school and are
involved in many volunteer and civic activities. Both are eligible for
scholarship funds that are sitting in limbo because without landed immigrant
status or American citizenship, they cannot attend college. Jennifer graduates
from high school in May 2004.

My children are stuck between Canada and the United States. They are Hispanic
children without a country. What do they do now? Please help us. C. Jaime Lee
Brown, Tiffany Perez, Jennifer Perez

Response: Jean Ribblett, district adjudications officer with the U.S. Department
of Justice's Bureau of Citizenship and Immigration Services in Tampa, said the
issues raised in your letter will be investigated. You will receive the
Immigration Services' response through the offices of U.S. Sens. Bob Graham and
Bill Nelson, and U.S. Rep. Mike Bilirakis, to whom you also turned for help.

Because we have been removed from the information loop, please let us know what
happens. Good luck to you and your daughters.

Extended warranty problems

I purchased a Bissell carpet shampoo machine from Service Merchandise, along
with a extended warranty from N.E.W., in November 2001. Last November, my
machine was not working properly, and I called N.E.W. After many calls, a
representative named Allan gave me the names of repair shops I could use.

I went to one and was told that it no longer accepted N.E.W. repairs because of
problems with reimbursement. I called Allan again, and he gave me more names.
This time I called before going out and was told the same thing, that the
company no longer accepted N.E.W. repairs. When I called Allan again, the only
names he could give me were of stores 50 to 60 miles away. His supervisor said
that I should send the machine to some shop in Gaithersburg, Md. She said that I
should send her the receipt for the shipping and she would reimburse me.

I am hesitant to do this. In the meantime, my service contract has expired, for
I will not reinstate it. Your help in this matter would be appreciated. Diane
Morris

Response: Frances Timbers, executive assistant for N.E.W. in Dulles, Va., said
that the company apologizes for the length of time it has taken to find an
authorized service center near you and for the unfortunate experience you
endured. A service center closer to your home has been authorized. She said to
contact her if you need further assistance.

Action solves problems and gets answers for you. If you have a question, or your
own attempts to resolve a consumer complaint have failed, write Times Action,
P.O. Box 1121, St. Petersburg, FL 33731, or call your Action number, (727)
893-8171, or, outside of Pinellas, toll-free 1-800-333-7505, ext. 8171, to leave
a recorded request.

Requests will be accepted only by mail or voice mail; calls cannot be returned.
We will not be responsible for personal documents, so please send only
photocopies. If your complaint concerns merchandise ordered by mail, we need
copies of both sides of your canceled check.

We may require additional information or prefer to reply by mail; therefore,
readers must provide a full mailing address, including ZIP code. Names of letter
writers will not be omitted except in unusual circumstances. Letters may be
edited for length and clarity.

LOAD-DATE: April 20, 2003

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

SERIES: ACTION; SUNDAY ARTS

TYPE: COLUMN

                    Copyright 2003 Times Publishing Company


                              189 of 302 DOCUMENTS

                         St. Petersburg Times (Florida)

                 May 7, 2003 Wednesday 0 South Pinellas Edition

Customs agents told to look for SARS symptoms

SOURCE: Compiled from Times Wires

SECTION: NATIONAL; Pg. 2A

LENGTH: 387 words

DATELINE: WASHINGTON; BEIJING


As part of the government's efforts to prevent an epidemic of SARS in the United
States, the Bush administration has authorized immigration and customs agents at
the nation's international airports to use force to detain arriving passengers
who appear to have symptoms of the disease, senior administration officials
said.

The Department of Homeland Security has provided masks and gloves to thousands
of its airport inspectors over the last month.

At special training sessions, officials said, the inspectors have been told
their screening duties now go far beyond passports and baggage and they need to
give extra attention to the health of passengers arriving on 51 daily flights
from Asian cities where the outbreak has been most severe, including Beijing,
Hong Kong and Singapore.

Officials said that the tightened screening procedures have gone into effect
gradually over the last few weeks and no passengers have required forcible
detention, suggesting the efforts of Asian governments and major airlines to
prevent passengers infected with SARS from boarding trans-Pacific flights has
been successful.

Officials said immigration and customs agents who identify arriving passengers
who appear to be ill with any of the symptoms of severe acute respiratory
syndrome, including high fever or breathing trouble, will be authorized to
detain them and call in health inspectors. If SARS is confirmed, the passenger
would be moved to a medical facility and placed under mandatory quarantine.

Cats, dogs also SARS casualties

BEIJING - Authorities in protective suits are killing dogs, in some cases by
beating them, while their owners are locked away in hospital wards as suspected
or confirmed SARS cases in the Chinese capital.

Some pet owners, fearing their animals could carry SARS, are taking grisly
measures with their dogs and cats. Others, fearing a violent end for their pets,
are asking veterinarians to euthanize their animals.

There is no proof that dogs and cats can spread SARS, but some local authorities
and state media accounts have given the impression that domestic animals are a
SARS threat.

In a well-publicized case last week, a Beijing man threw his Pekinese out the
sixth-story window of his building but failed to kill it, so he walked
downstairs and buried the dog alive.

LOAD-DATE: May 7, 2003

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

SERIES: SARS; NOTEBOOK

TYPE: DIGEST

                    Copyright 2003 Times Publishing Company


                              190 of 302 DOCUMENTS

                         St. Petersburg Times (Florida)

                             May 14, 2003 Wednesday
                              Correction Appended

Expansion proposed for jail in Lecanto

BYLINE: ARCHANA PYATI; JIM ROSS

SECTION: CITRUS TIMES; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1078 words

DATELINE: INVERNESS


The Citrus County jail may undergo a 256-bed expansion soon to accommodate
additional detainees from the Bureau of Immigration and Custom Enforcement,
formerly known as the Immigration and Naturalization Service.

On Tuesday, the County Commission voted unanimously, with little debate, to
allow County Administrator Richard Wesch to enter into negotiations with the
federal government to expand the jail, which is in Lecanto.

In separate action, the commission also unanimously agreed to seek no further
appeals of a judge's ruling that stopped development of the controversial Halls
River Retreat condominium complex.

Here is how the financing would work in the proposed jail expansion:

The immigration agency would essentially loan Citrus County $9.3-million to
cover construction. The county would then erase or "buy down" this debt by
charging the federal government a daily rate for each detainee it housed.

This setup, Wesch said, would eliminate the need for county taxpayers to foot
the bill.

The federal government also would reimburse the county for the cost of feeding,
supervising  and giving medical treatment to the detainees, according to a memo
from Wesch to the commission.

The inmates in the proposed expansion would be criminals who are awaiting
deportation, Wesch wrote in his memo. Sheriff Jeff Dawsy had indicated to Wesch
that he didn't want to house violent offenders. Wesch assured the commission
Tuesday that the county didn't intend to keep violent detainees. He also seemed
confident that the 256 proposed new beds would be filled.

"INS does not envision any problem filling 256 beds," he said.  Already,
Corrections Corporation of America, the private company that runs the jail,
charges the immigration agency a daily fee of $47 per inmate.  The corporation
then turns around and pays the county a daily fee of $6 per inmate,  said Carlow
Melendez, the warden of the facility.

These rates will not necessarily be the same for the proposed expansion. The
daily rate will be the subject of negotiation between Wesch and the federal
agency.

Of the 392 inmates at the jail on Tuesday afternoon, 93 were immigrants waiting
deportation, said Melendez.

In addition to the 256 beds, the proposed expansion would include a recreation
area, a laundry, kitchen  and attorney visitation rooms, according to Wesch's
memo.

At Tuesday's meeting, Melendez told commissioners that an additional 40 to 60
jobs could be created if the jail expands.

Afterward, in a phone interview, he said he envisions potentially hiring an
additional 20 to 30 employees. Melendez estimated the federal agency would also
need to hire 20-30 more law enforcement officers and caseworkers to staff the
site.

Much will depend on the design of the expansion and how many staff people are
needed. "It's all incumbent on what kind of design is constructed down the
road," the warden said. "The current facility is staff intensive. We're trying
to get away from that."

In other commission news:

HALLS RIVER RETREAT: After a wide-ranging discussion, the commission unanimously
voted not to further appeal a legal ruling that doomed the proposed condominium
complex.

"Let's move forward as a group now and maneuver our way through this thing,"
Commissioner Josh Wooten said.

In February 2002, the commission approved development of Halls River Retreat,
which would have been a 54-unit condominium complex. Opponents filed a legal
challenge.

Circuit Judge Jack Springstead of Hernando County  negated the commission
ruling. The commission appealed, but the 5th District Court of Appeal earlier
this month allowed the ruling to stand.

The county's legal team on Tuesday told commissioners they could appeal to the
Florida Supreme Court, seek a rehearing and more specific explanation from the
5th District Court of Appeal  or allow the judge's order to stand and advise the
county's planning staff accordingly.

"The only thing we can do," Phillips said, "is accept the judge's ruling as law,
let our staff work on those issues that are problematic" and encourage staff to
continue working with the state Department of Community Affairs to excise
inconsistencies in the county's comprehensive plan.

Those inconsistencies - between development regulations in the comprehensive
plan and the land development code - were among the problematic issues that
arose during the Halls River Retreat debate.

Commission Chairman Jim Fowler said he was disturbed that F. Blake Longacre, the
Halls River Retreat developer, did everything county government asked of him and
yet still will be denied the preferred use of his property.

"No one that I've heard believes that he (Longacre) should be made whole,"
Fowler said. "What I've heard is, well, that's just the roll of the dice."

"It's a disturbing trend in our society when government organizations come up
with new regulations and impose  changes on people's property without so much as
a thought of talking to them first," Fowler went on to say. He said the
commission has been guilty of that in the past, as well.

But Commissioner Gary Bartell, despite his own misgivings about part of the
Springstead decision, implored the commission and staff to "move forward with
strength."

In other words, to clarify land use rules, to evenly apply regulations on all
proposed developments and to sit down with land use attorneys and try to build a
consensus on key issues.

"Let's quit trying to circumvent the law," Bartell said, "and let's apply the
law as it's written."

RYAN'S STEAKHOUSE: The commission voted 4-1 to send a letter to the Federal
Aviation Administration to request permission to shorten a grass runway at the
Crystal River Airport by 35 feet to accommodate a Ryan's Steakhouse, and to
inform the agency of the county's plan to close this runway in 2007.

Wesch reported he was convinced the FAA would not look favorably at either
shortening or closing the runway based on a meeting with FAA officials held
earlier this month.

"If we petition to contract or abandon that runway, FAA and (the Florida
Department of Transportation) will re-evaluate the county's commitment" to the
airport, he said.

The two agencies have said the airport might not receive federal grants for
construction and expansion if the runway is compromised in any way.

Fowler voted against the motion made by Wooten.   Said Fowler: "I'm not willing
to do anything that will jeopardize grant funding."

LOAD-DATE: May 15, 2003

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

CORRECTION-DATE: May 15, 2003

CORRECTION: Carlos Melendez is warden at the Citrus County jail. His name was
misspelled in a story in Wednesday's Citrus Times.

                    Copyright 2003 Times Publishing Company


                              191 of 302 DOCUMENTS

                         St. Petersburg Times (Florida)

                             May 15, 2003 Thursday

SECTION: CITRUS TIMES; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 689 words


D: Nondescript words may mask prison expansion

And in other business, the county jail may soon nearly double in size, with the
new beds being filled with hundreds of federal prisoners waiting to be deported.

The item on the County Commission's meeting agenda Tuesday was just that
perfunctory, a nondescript bit under the county administrator's part of the
session reading: "Approve and authorize the chairman to sign a letter of intent
regarding the county's participation in the Cooperative Agreement Program
(CAP)."

Who knew that this innocuous-sounding CAP meant a new, huge holding pen for
federal inmates? Certainly not the Lecanto neighbors of the county jail who
might have wanted to know that this plan was in the works.

This is not to say that the county was trying to hide something this important
from the public. Anyone who thought to dig deep into the backup information
provided with the agenda could have found a memo from County Administrator
Richard Wesch explaining the proposal to the commissioners.

Whether that single sentence on the agenda would have spurred such a search is
an open, if moot, question now. Following a brief discussion, the commissioners
unanimously approved the item, then moved on to other matters.

All that really happened was that the commissioners agreed to tell the new
Bureau of Immigration and Customs Enforcement (formerly the Immigration and
Naturalization Service) that it is interested in talking more about the
proposal. The letter does not bind the county in any way.

However, the commissioners are clearly interested in pursuing the matter, which
could result in a 256-bed expansion of the county jail in an area that is
quickly becoming a magnet for a wide range of people with antisocial behaviors.

One question that was not asked Tuesday was this: What would the neighbors
think?

Even if common sense didn't tell county officials that Lecanto residents would
want to know about this plan, recent headlines should have provided a clue.

Earlier this year, when the Citrus County School Board was deciding whether to
build the new Renaissance Center for disruptive students at a tract near the
jail, residents of a nearby neighborhood howled in protest.

Their concerns were for the safety of the students as well as themselves. They
cited the proximity of the jail, with its attendant risk of prisoners escaping.

They noted that hunters use the surrounding woods, which could lead to an
accidental shooting of a student.

Mostly, they were angry that the plans had gotten as far as they had before the
residents caught wind of them.

The neighbors are well aware that they live next to the county jail, plus the
Cypress Creek Academy, which houses the state's worst juvenile offenders. They
were not thrilled that the School Board planned to build a center for the
district's most disruptive students right next door.

Now, they may get the entire package - federal prisoners as well.

The proposal has merit in that it essentially allows the county to expand its
jail at no direct cost to local taxpayers. The BICE will lend the county
$9.3-million to cover construction costs, and the county would pay off the debt
by charging the feds a daily rate for each detainee.

Within 10 to 20 years, the debt would be paid and the county would assume
ownership of the facility.

County staffers made sure it contacted the company that runs the jail,
Corrections Corporation of America, about the proposal. Staffers also alerted
Sheriff Jeff Dawsy, whose major concern was that the new prisoners not be
violent offenders.

No mention was made Tuesday of any attempts that were made to notify those other
stakeholders - the public, particularly the adjacent homeowners. Maybe that memo
just got lost in the mail.

There will be time for the neighbors to raise any concerns as this proposal
works its way through the system. But it will be up to them to stay alert for
those opportunities.

The lesson for residents is to read each commission agenda closely, from cover
to cover. You just never know when a federal prison may be springing up in your
back yard.

LOAD-DATE: May 15, 2003

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

SERIES: EDITORIAL

                    Copyright 2003 Times Publishing Company


                              192 of 302 DOCUMENTS

                         St. Petersburg Times (Florida)

                             May 15, 2003 Thursday

County works on federal detainee deal

BYLINE: ARCHANA PYATI

SECTION: CITRUS TIMES; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 965 words

DATELINE: LECANTO


County officials are formalizing their interest in housing more immigrant
detainees at the county jail by sending a letter to the federal government this
week. A deal could possibly be worked out during the next few months.

"It would be my goal to wrap up the issue by the end of the summer or by mid
August," County Administrator Richard Wesch said during a phone interview
Wednesday.

Earlier this week, the County Commission voted unanimously to allow Wesch to
negotiate an agreement with the Bureau of Immigration and Customs Enforcement.
The agency is offering the county a $9.3-million construction loan to build a
256-bed annex to the jail. The county would pay back the loan by charging the
federal government a daily rate for each bed a detainee occupies.

The commission vote doesn't signal an entirely new venture for the county. Nor
does it mean the public will have no chance to weigh in on the matter.

The jail has been home to immigrant detainees since 1995, when it began
accepting refugees from the Krome Detention Center near Miami. More recently,
these detainees have come from a detention facility in Bradenton.

The federal government pays a daily rate for those inmates: Most of that fee
goes to Corrections Corporation of America, the private company that operates
the jail on the county's behalf; and some goes into county coffers.

What is new is the proposed financial arrangement with the federal government,
which would allow the county to use federal dollars to expand one of its own
facilities. Once the loan is paid off, the annex would become the county's
property, providing much-needed space for the county's growing inmate
population.

An immigration official approached Wesch about the greater number of immigrants
being detained, particularly since the Sept. 11, 2001, terrorist attacks and the
need for more beds.

"With the budgeting times we're in, when I heard of the availability of another
agency's money, my ears perked up," he said.

During the negotiations, Wesch and federal officials will have to decide on the
terms of the loan. At Tuesday's commission meeting, at least one commissioner,
Vicki Phillips, said the loan should be paid off in 10 years, as opposed to 20.
But the county will only be able to receive credit toward the $9.3-million if
the beds are occupied by immigrant detainees.

While the county may not be forbidden from housing some of its own inmates in
the expanded section of the jail, doing so would only prolong the amount of time
it takes to pay back the loan.

To Phillips, if the county can't access the expansion's beds for its own
overflow, then the deal may not be as beneficial as it appears.

"There have been times when we've almost reached capacity in our current
facility," she said Wednesday. "If we can't use the expansion for our own
people, we'll have to expand our own facility and get nothing out this."

Wesch said the contract could include language whereby the county wouldn't be
penalized for using some of the 256 beds for its own inmate overflow.

The county would continue to generate revenue from the detainees' presence.
Already, the county earns $6 each day per inmate, while Corrections Corporation
of America pockets a daily fee of $41 per inmate from the federal government.

Wesch estimates the county would earn $560,000 annually if all 256 beds were
filled each day with immigrant detainees. This money, however, would not go
toward paying back the $9.3-million loan. It could be used to pay back the debt
service on the county jail, the remainder of which is $4,570,000, according to
Sarah Koser, the county's finance director.

If the expansion is approved later this summer, the detainees would likely come
from an immigration facility at the Manatee County Jail in Bradenton. Citrus
County's jail already houses over 90 detainees, who come from the Caribbean,
Russia and China. These detainees would likely be moved to the proposed
expansion, said Carlos Melendez, the Citrus jail warden.

Like the current batch of detainees, some of the detainees in the proposed
expansion would have criminal backgrounds, but others do not. Some are just
waiting to be deported or released.

For those who do have criminal histories, "They have finished their sentences,"
said Melendez.

None of the current or future detainees are released in Citrus County, and those
that come from the Bradenton facility are released in Bradenton if they aren't
deported, Melendez said.

Although details of the design still need to be worked out, the preferred
location of the expansion would be to the northeast of the jail because that
would place the new detainees close to the kitchen, the clinic and other common
areas of the jail, Melendez said.

While Wesch was reluctant to approach residents in the surrounding neighborhood
about the expansion before he received approval from the commission to begin
talking to immigration authorities, the public will have a chance to comment. No
agreement can be finalized without the commission's approval. Wesch said a
public meeting or workshop would be planned as the negotiations progress.

One resident, who last year protested the School Board's decision to build the
Renaissance Center, a school for troubled middle- and high-school students, near
the jail, said she had heard about the expansion from a neighbor.

Donna Jean De Simone said she continues to worry about the close proximity of
students to people with criminal backgrounds. Some immigrants, she said, may not
be able to be repatriated and so may be tempted to break out of the facility.

"What happens if their country doesn't want them back," said De Simone, who
lives on nearby Escambia Lane. "They have no place to go. What have they got to
lose?"

LOAD-DATE: May 15, 2003

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                    Copyright 2003 Times Publishing Company


                              193 of 302 DOCUMENTS

                         St. Petersburg Times (Florida)

                             June 4, 2003 Wednesday

Man arrested in slaying no longer faces charges

BYLINE: DUANE BOURNE

SECTION: HERNANDO TIMES; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 339 words

DATELINE: BROOKSVILLE


Saying they lacked sufficient evidence, prosecutors on Tuesday dropped charges
against one of three Mexican immigrants held in connection with a fatal drive-by
shooting near Brooksville in April.

Cesare Reyes-Hernandez, 21, smiled broadly when, through a translator, he was
told that prosecutors had insufficient evidence to charge him in the April 19
shooting that left 23-year-old Juan Carlos Herrera-Mora dead. He had been held
on a charge of being an accomplice to second-degree murder.

Reyes-Hernandez won't be released from jail, though.

Officials from the Bureau of Immigration, Customs and Enforcement have placed
Reyes-Hernandez, Delfino Duran-Casas, 29, and Reymundo Reyes-Alfaro, 32, on
"detainers," which means that if they are released or post bail, they are to be
taken into custody again to face deportation hearings.

Duran-Casas and Reyes-Alfaro pleaded not guilty Tuesday to second-degree murder
and principle to second-degree murder charges, respectively, during arraignment
in front of Circuit Judge Jack Springstead.

All of the suspects were arrested in Marion County, hours after authorities said
they went to a mobile home on Ganz Drive, northwest of Brooksville, to collect a
$300 debt from Miguel Reyes-Alfaro.

A fight ensued, with Reyes-Alfaro slashing Eusebio Gallegos-Olivo, 28, of Moon
Road, west of Brooksville, from his ear to his shoulder, authorities said.
Reyes-Alfaro was charged with attempted murder and pleaded not guilty in court
Tuesday.

Gallegos-Olivo was taken to Oak Hill Hospital for his injuries. But that did not
end the hostilities, according to a sheriff's report.

The men returned later that night and began shooting into the mobile home where
Gallegos-Olivo and Hererra-Mora resided.

As the men drove by the house, authorities said, Hererra-Mora, who was on a
porch, was shot once in the head with a shotgun.

- Duane Bourne covers law enforcement and emergency services in Hernando County
and can be reached at 754-6114. Send e-mail to dbourne@sptimes.com.

LOAD-DATE: June 4, 2003

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                    Copyright 2003 Times Publishing Company


                              194 of 302 DOCUMENTS

                         St. Petersburg Times (Florida)

                              June 8, 2003 Sunday

Ashcroft's America

SECTION: PERSPECTIVE; Pg. 2D

LENGTH: 663 words


U.S. Attorney General John Ashcroft told the House Judiciary Committee Thursday
that he wants new powers to hold people indefinitely if they are suspected of
terrorist ties. The request was a brazen show of arrogance by a man who has
little regard for the civil liberties that define our nation. It comes on the
heels of a scathing report by the Justice Department's own inspector general
that roundly condemns the department's actions against immigrants following the
attacks of Sept. 11.

The nearly 200-page report describes serious abuses of immigrants swept up in
the anti-terror investigation. It lays bare a "guilty until proven innocent"
strategy of holding detainees for inordinately long periods in harsh conditions
and systematically disrupting their ability to contact the outside world. And
now Ashcroft wants to write these abuses into law.

Our attorney general is a dangerous man who has shown little interest in
upholding the values and constitutional principles that make this nation great.
He needs to be reined in by Congress, not granted wider authority to ruin more
lives.

The report reviews the treatment of 762 immigrants detained in the course of the
terrorism investigation. They were almost exclusively Muslim and Middle Eastern
men with status violations - guilty of overstaying a visa or entering the
country illegally - who certainly deserved to be deported. But the department
established rules for this group that differed sharply from what other aliens,
similarly charged, experienced.

The report meticulously details the way basic due process was denied: Many of
the detainees were not told of the charges against them for weeks and sometimes
months; they were designated a party "of interest" in the terrorism
investigation when there was no proof to indicate any connection to terrorism;
and a number were held long after they voluntarily agreed to leave the country.
In the end, not one alien picked up on immigration violations following the
terrorist attacks was charged with a terrorism-related crime. All of Ashcroft's
shortcuts did nothing to make the country safer. (Zacarias Moussaoui was
arrested prior to Sept. 11.)

The report makes substantial allowances for the situation in the wake of the
Sept. 11 attacks. It acknowledges the "monumental challenges" faced by the
department but comes down hard on an investigative process in which facts and
reasonable suspicion are thrown out the window and replaced with ethnicity.
Immigrants, the report says, were deemed "of interest" in an "indiscriminate and
haphazard manner." Aliens who happened to be in the vicinity of a terrorism lead
would also be swept up and designated as Sept. 11 detainees. The problem was
compounded when they were summarily denied bond and the FBI took an
irresponsibly long time clearing them - 80 days on average.

Even more disturbing is the way the detainees were treated in custody. A number
were physically and verbally abused. They were also blocked from contacting
lawyers and family members. Detainees at one facility were allowed one call a
week to a lawyer and one call a month to family. But if they responded "yes" to
being asked, "Are you okay?" by a corrections counselor, they were deemed to
have waived that week's phone call. They were also given lists of immigration
lawyers with inaccurate phone numbers. Calling a wrong number counted as the
week's call.

In conducting the internal probe, the inspector general's office interviewed
virtually every key person in the department, from the attorney general down.
From notes of meetings and phone calls taken by the participants, it is clear
that what happened to the detainees was a direct consequence of policies put in
place from the top.

The department's tactics did not make this country any safer, just decidedly
less free. Now Ashcroft is asking for Congress' blessing to expand this
repressive wave. This time it was immigrants; the next time it could be U.S.
citizens.

LOAD-DATE: June 8, 2003

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

SERIES: EDITORIALS

TYPE: EDITORIAL

                    Copyright 2003 Times Publishing Company


                              195 of 302 DOCUMENTS

                         St. Petersburg Times (Florida)

               June 21, 2003 Saturday 4 State / Suncoast Edition

FBI, immigration database merger languishes, report says

SOURCE: Compiled from Times Wires

SECTION: NATIONAL; Pg. 9A

LENGTH: 641 words

DATELINE: WASHINGTON; BOSTON; LOUISVILLE, Ky.; BATON ROUGE, La.; TOLEDO, Ohio


Foreign terrorists and criminals could continue to slip across U.S. borders
undetected because a project to combine FBI and immigration fingerprint records
is running two years behind schedule, a Justice Department report says.

Until the project is finished, immigration, FBI and other law enforcement
agencies will not be able to simultaneously check fingerprint records and some
foreigners "who should be detained will not be," said the report Friday by Glenn
A. Fine, the Justice Department's inspector general.

"The slow progress of the integration project represents an unacceptable risk to
public safety and national security," Fine wrote.

The delays are particularly troubling, the report said, because interim changes
have led to fingerprint matches of 4,820 foreigners suspected of or wanted for
criminal offenses since January 2002. Of those, 50 were being sought for murder.

The project, begun in 1999, is not expected to be finished until at least 2009,
about two years later than originally thought.

An initial, less comprehensive version was to have come on line this spring, but
is also delayed until at least December 2003.

Mass. lawmakers repeal controversial elections law

BOSTON - The Massachusetts Legislature on Friday repealed the state's Clean
Elections Law, which has provoked political squabbling, court battles, a car
auction and an imbroglio over state office furniture after voters approved it
overwhelmingly in 1998.

The law was developed as a mechanism for taxpayer money to finance campaigns for
candidates who agreed to accept only contributions of $100 or less along with
strict spending limits. Supporters said it would help fight what they described
as a money-driven mentality in the legislature and pave the way for alternative
candidates.

The governor "doesn't believe it makes sense to be throwing people off our
Medicaid rolls while publicly financing political campaigns," spokesman Shawn
Feddeman said.

Restaurant agrees to pay $21-million for crash

LOUISVILLE, Ky. - The company that owns a T.G.I. Friday's franchise restaurant
has agreed to pay $21-million to settle a lawsuit filed by the parents of two
teenagers killed by a drunken driver.

The agreement is one of the largest reported settlements or damage awards
against establishments that served alcohol to customers who later injured or
killed others, according to Mothers Against Drunk Driving.

Mark Eberenz, 42, a home builder, drank alcohol at the Louisville-area T.G.I.
Friday's for about eight hours last summer before he drove his truck into a car
carrying 16-year-old sweethearts Cory Stauble and Parsley. All three were killed
in the crash.

DNA links sixth victim to La. serial killer suspect

BATON ROUGE, La. - New DNA evidence has linked a sixth victim to the man accused
of a killing streak that haunted women across the state for more than a year,
law officers said.

Initial testing done after Geralyn DeSoto's slaying had been inconclusive, said
Mike Cazes of the West Baton Rouge Parish Sheriff's Office. DeSoto, 21, was
found stabbed and beaten to death in her Addis home in January 2002, on the day
she had signed up for graduate classes at Louisiana State University.

Her aunt Belinda Snyder said the new evidence came from DeSoto's fingernail
scrapings.

The DNA evidence linked her death to Derrick Todd Lee, who is accused of
aggravated rape and first-degree murder in five other deaths between September
2001 and March in southern Louisiana, including that of Tampa native Carrie Lynn
Yoder, 26.

Man convicted in $100- million insurance scam

TOLEDO, Ohio - An Ohio businessman was convicted Friday of running an insurance
scam that bilked nearly 3,000 investors of more than $100-million through the
purchase of life insurance policies of terminally ill people.

LOAD-DATE: June 22, 2003

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: DIGEST

                    Copyright 2003 Times Publishing Company


                              196 of 302 DOCUMENTS

                         St. Petersburg Times (Florida)

                June 21, 2003 Saturday 0 South Pinellas Edition

FBI, immigration database merger languishes, report says

SOURCE: Compiled from Times Wires

SECTION: NATIONAL; Pg. 9A

LENGTH: 351 words

DATELINE: WASHINGTON; GREENSBORO, Ga.


Foreign terrorists and criminals could continue to slip across U.S. borders
undetected because a project to combine FBI and immigration fingerprint records
is running two years behind schedule, a Justice Department report says.

Until the project is finished, immigration, FBI and other law enforcement
agencies will not be able to simultaneously check fingerprint records, and some
foreigners "who should be detained will not be," said the report Friday by Glenn
A. Fine, the Justice Department's inspector general.

"The slow progress of the integration project represents an unacceptable risk to
public safety and national security," Fine wrote.

The delays are particularly troubling, the report said, because interim changes
have led to fingerprint matches of 4,820 foreigners suspected of or wanted for
criminal offenses since January 2002. Of those, 50 were being sought for murder.

The project, begun in 1999, is not expected to be finished until at least 2009,
about two years later than originally thought.

An initial, less comprehensive version was to have come online this spring, but
is also delayed until at least December.

Court upholds tougher limit on arsenic in water

WASHINGTON - A federal appeals court on Friday upheld the Environmental
Protection Agency's stricter requirements for levels of arsenic in drinking
water.

The agency standard of 10 parts per billion, the equivalent of 1 teaspoon per
1.3-million gallons of water, substantially reduced the previously acceptable
level of 50 parts per billion.

The standard, scheduled to go into effect in 2006, was challenged by the state
of Nebraska and the city of Alliance, Neb., which argued that regulating
drinking water was a state responsibility.

Bush-Cheney campaign raises $2.25-million in Ga.

GREENSBORO, Ga. - In his cross-country quest for re-election dollars, President
Bush found $2.25-million Friday in an affluent lakeside golfing community in
rural Georgia.

About 1,000 Bush supporters paid $2,000 each to toast the president at a resort
called Reynolds Plantation on Lake Oconee.

LOAD-DATE: June 22, 2003

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: DIGEST

                    Copyright 2003 Times Publishing Company


                              197 of 302 DOCUMENTS

                         St. Petersburg Times (Florida)

                July 10, 2003 Thursday 0 South Pinellas Edition

When research takes you north of the border

BYLINE: DONNA MURRAY ALLEN

SECTION: FLORIDIAN; Pg. 2D

LENGTH: 955 words


The Genealogy Centre of Canada is now online, which is good news for rooters
with a Canuck connection. Many Americans trace their ancestry to Canada. Some
had ancestors who stopped in Canada for varying periods of time before
emigrating to the United States. Others descend from Loyalists - colonists who
disagreed with the Revolutionary War (1775-1783) and moved to Canada - while
some simply continued the family migration and ended up in this country.

The Centre (  http://www.genealogy.gc.ca/01/01_e.html), a joint project
initiated by the Canadian Archives and the Department of Canadian Heritage, aims
to provide greater access to Canadian genealogical resources. Become familiar
with this site by clicking on the "How To" section and skimming the menu on the
left. Then tackle the genealogy section. You'll find research guides, a section
on Canadian geography, essential for anyone contemplating a serious research
effort, and information for ordering a free publication, "Tracing Ancestors in
Canada."

The Centre can't help you research your entire family tree and does not hold
birth, marriage and death records, but it does accept inquiries related to
military and immigration records. The Centre's site also has online searchable
databases for immigration records from 1925-35, World War I military records and
Home Children.

The Home Children searchable database is unique. Between 1869 and 1930,
approximately 100,000 children arrived in Canada from Great Britain during the
child immigration movement. The youngsters were offspring from poor families
sent to Canada to work as farm laborers or domestic servants by parents who
thought they would have more economic opportunities across the pond.

You can learn more about this interesting aspect of Canadian history by logging
onto the Centre for Home Children's site at  http://www.homechildren.ca. The
Centre helps children who arrived between 1869-1948 and/or their descendants
discover their true identities and assists with tracing and locating living
family members.

You'll also want to visit the Canadian National Archives at
http://www.archives.ca/ 01/01_e.html. Click on genealogy, and you'll find
general information on conducting research in Canada, searchable databases, a
list of resources and freelance researchers.

Be sure to explore ArchiviaNet, a link to online research tools. There is also
good information and searchable databases pertaining to United Empire Loyalists,
those American colonists who remained loyal to the British Crown during the
Revolutionary War (1775-1783) and moved to Canada. Some Loyalists applied for
land grants. Others eventually returned to the United States.

The Canadian National Library at  http://www.nlc-bnc.ca offers still more
possibilities. Click on the Library icon, select services and then go to
services for researchers and genealogy. Not planning a trip to Canada any time
soon? You can borrow microfilm records through an interlibrary loan program that
extends to the United States. In addition, the Mormon Family History Center
(FHC) owns a considerable collection of Canadian records that may be viewed at
any local FHC.

Certain Canadian census records are searchable online. The entire 1881 Canadian
Census may be searched by surname at the Mormon Family History site at
http://www.familysearch.org. The 1901 National Census and the 1906 Census of the
Northwest Provinces are online at the Canadian Archives site but are searchable
only by geographic location. Go to  http://www.archives.ca/ 01/01_e.html and
click on ArchivaNet.

If you still haven't found what you need, try the Directory of Canadian archives
at  http://www.cdncouncilarchives.ca, where you'll find a list of Canadian
repositories and a description of their records collection.

And finally, don't miss RootsWeb's Canadian sites. Start at
http://www.rootsweb.com/canwgw, where you can select from a variety of links,
such as Canada's timeline and query boards, and even subscribe to an e-mail
list. Then click on a regional site from the directory at the right to get an
idea of what's available. I randomly picked Saskatchewan. Topics included on
that regional site include adoption, cemetery records, genealogy societies and
homestead records.

Read past Donna Murray Allen columns online at  http://www.sptimes.com. Type
"Donna Murray Allen" in the search box at the top of the main page. You can
write to Allen c/o Floridian, St. Petersburg Times, P.O. Box 1121, St.
Petersburg, FL 33731, or e-mail her at rootscolumn@yahoo.com. Her Web site:
http://www.rootsdetective.com. Allen welcomes your questions about genealogy and
will respond to those of general interest in future columns. Sorry, she can't
take phone calls.

LOAD-DATE: July 10, 2003

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

SERIES: GENEALOGY

TYPE: COLUMN

                    Copyright 2003 Times Publishing Company


                              198 of 302 DOCUMENTS

                         St. Petersburg Times (Florida)

                              July 27, 2003 Sunday

American dream is suddenly shattered

BYLINE: WAVENEY ANN MOORE

SECTION: NEIGHBORHOOD TIMES; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1099 words

DATELINE: CLEARWATER


Everything seemed to be falling into place for Elizabeth Setiawan Navarro. Newly
remarried, she and her airline pilot husband and their blended family soon would
move into a $400,000, seven-bedroom home.

But the insistent ringing of her doorbell before dawn on July 9 would jar her
from her American dream. The woman who delighted in excursions to the mall soon
would be clad in prison garb.

That morning, while she and her family were asleep, federal agents came to her
house and arrested her on an outstanding deportation order. Mrs. Navarro, who is
from Indonesia, said she tried to explain that she had been granted a stay of
the order, that she was now married to an American citizen and that a new
application was being filed to legalize her immigration status. But the wheels
were already spinning.

"They say I have to go to jail," Mrs. Navarro, 44, said in a telephone interview
from the Clay County Jail.

"I feel hurt. I don't do anything wrong. I stay here already two weeks. I want
to go home."

Federal officials disagree.

Mrs. Navarro's arrest was part of an operation conducted in the Tampa Bay area,
said Barbara Gonzalez, Florida spokeswoman for the Bureau of Immigration and
Customs Enforcement.

"She was granted voluntary departure. She failed to leave the country, which is
a clear violation of immigration laws. She failed to leave, so that became a
final order (of removal) case," Ms. Gonzalez said.

"Subsequent to her arrest, she filed a motion to reopen and a stay of removal
went into place. Just recently, the motion to reopen was denied by an
immigration judge and the stay of removal was lifted.

"This person did have her due process rights."

Her husband, Ramon Navarro, 55, is trying to get his wife released. He wept
Friday after learning that an immigration judge had denied the request to reopen
her case. He has written to Florida Sen. Bill Nelson, Rep. C.W. Bill Young,
R-Largo, Sen. Bob Graham and the judge overseeing his wife's case. He has hired
an attorney. He even has enlisted the help of the family priest.

"This is just another sob story to some people, but on top of that, her daughter
is in the Army," he said.

"Her daughter is willing to sacrifice her life to go somewhere and get shot at
and at the same time, this country is going to deport her mother, and that
angers me."

Mrs. Navarro's daughter, Lewina Walters, 22, is scheduled to be deployed with
peacekeeping forces overseas.

"I just feel that the government is not fair," she said, speaking from Fort Drum
in New York.

"I am going overseas to protect this country and yet my mom is going to be
deported. Without her, I can't do anything. I need to know that my mother is
okay."

Ellen Gorman, Mrs. Navarro's St. Petersburg lawyer, filed the motion to try to
stop the deportation and to reopen the case. Friday afternoon, though, she
learned that the motion to reopen the case had been denied. Consequently the
deportation may now proceed.

Ms. Gorman plans to try one more appeal on Monday. She said Mrs. Navarro is a
victim of unfortunate circumstances, including her once-poor English skills.

She said that when Mrs. Navarro came to America in 1990, she married a fellow
Indonesian. Their visit to Niagara Falls a few years later set in motion a
series of incidents that led to Mrs. Navarro's current situation.

During that visit, Mrs. Navarro and her then-husband, Dede Setiawan,
accidentally crossed the border into Canada and were stopped when they tried to
re-enter the country, Ms. Gorman said. She was briefly detained, but was
released and her case was transferred to Miami. Over the years as the case was
handed off, deadlines were missed and Mrs. Navarro ended up in the Krome
Detention Center in Miami in 1996. She remained there for 12 days. After her
release, one of a series of attorneys was supposed to keep working to help Mrs.
Navarro become a legal resident.

"In the meantime," Ms. Gorman said, "she kept living her life."

Her marriage to Setiawan collapsed, and they separated. Their divorce became
final on April 10. She married Navarro on June 1, in front of family and friends
at the Oriental Super Buffet on Gulf-to-Bay Boulevard in Clearwater.

Navarro, a former St. Petersburg police officer and Pinellas County Sheriff's
Office deputy, is a pilot for a major airline and flies domestic and
international routes. He met the woman he described as exceedingly kind and
generous in 2001. She was a host at the restaurant she and her first husband
owned in Largo. When Navarro saw her again about a year after their first
meeting, she told him that she and Setiawan had separated. Navarro said he
helped her move into an apartment in Pinellas Park.

"The apartment was too small, the rent was high, and I felt sorry for her and
wanted to help. And I bought another house," said Navarro, who lives in
Clearwater.

"I put enough down on it where the mortgage was going to be the same as the rent
she was paying."

It was at that Clearwater house, a short distrance from her husband's home, that
Mrs. Navarro was picked up by immigration officials. The couple had been
alternating between Navarro's home, which he shares with his 15-year-old son,
and Mrs. Navarro's, where she lived with her 8-year-old twin boys and an
18-year-old son.

The entire family was going to start their new life together in the Riverview
home, Navarro said.

"We were supposed to close on the 31st of July. ... This is going down to the
wire," he said.

His 85-year-old mother, whose legs have been amputated for medical reasons, was
going to join them at the new home, he said.

His new wife cares about his mother, who lives in an assisted living facility,
Navarro said.

"One of the reasons for buying a bigger house is she told me we have to take my
mother out of the facility and bring her home," he said.

At the Clay County Jail, Mrs. Navarro said she reads the Bible and prays.

"I lost my appetite. I lost 10 pounds. I want to go home," she said, her voice
breaking at times.

"I want to start a new life with my husband and my kids. We just want to start a
new life together. ... I hope this week I can have good news."

- Times researcher Caryn Baird contributed to this report.

Elizabeth Setiawan married Ramon Navarro on June 1. For years, a deportation
case had simmered while a lawyer was supposed to be helping her to become a
legal resident.

Lewina Walters, Mrs. Navarro's daughter, is scheduled to be deployed with
peacekeeping forces. "I am going overseas to protect this country and yet my mom
is going to be deported," she said.

LOAD-DATE: July 28, 2003

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: PHOTO, Navarro family photo; Elizabeth Setiawan and Ramon Navarro at
their wedding on June 1.; Lewina Walters

                    Copyright 2003 Times Publishing Company


                              199 of 302 DOCUMENTS

                         St. Petersburg Times (Florida)

                            July 30, 2003 Wednesday

American dream suddenly shattered

BYLINE: WAVENEY ANN MOORE

SECTION: CLEARWATER TIMES; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 1037 words

DATELINE: CLEARWATER


Everything seemed to be falling into place for Elizabeth Setiawan Navarro. Newly
remarried, she and her airline pilot husband and their blended family soon would
move into a $400,000, seven-bedroom home.

But the insistent ringing of her doorbell before dawn on July 9 would jar her
from her American dream. The woman who delighted in excursions to the mall soon
would be clad in prison garb.

That morning, while she and her family were asleep, federal agents came to her
house and arrested her on an outstanding deportation order. Mrs. Navarro, who is
from Indonesia, said she tried to explain that she had been granted a stay of
the order, that she was now married to an American citizen and that a new
application was being filed to legalize her immigration status. But the wheels
were already spinning.

"They say I have to go to jail," Mrs. Navarro, 44, said in a telephone interview
from the Clay County Jail.

"I feel hurt. I don't do anything wrong. I stay here already two weeks. I want
to go home."

Federal officials disagree.

Mrs. Navarro's arrest was part of an operation conducted in the Tampa Bay area,
said Barbara Gonzalez, Florida spokeswoman for the Bureau of Immigration and
Customs Enforcement.

"She was granted voluntary departure. She failed to leave the country, which is
a clear violation of immigration laws. She failed to leave, so that became a
final order (of removal) case," Ms. Gonzalez said.

"Subsequent to her arrest, she filed a motion to reopen and a stay of removal
went into place. Just recently, the motion to reopen was denied by an
immigration judge and the stay of removal was lifted.

"This person did have her due process rights."

Her husband, Ramon Navarro, 55, is trying to get his wife released. He wept
Friday after learning that an immigration judge had denied the request to reopen
her case. He has written to Florida Sen. Bill Nelson, Rep. C.W. Bill Young,
R-Largo, Sen. Bob Graham and the judge overseeing his wife's case. He has hired
an attorney. He even has enlisted the help of the family priest.

"This is just another sob story to some people, but on top of that, her daughter
is in the Army," he said.

"Her daughter is willing to sacrifice her life to go somewhere and get shot at
and at the same time, this country is going to deport her mother, and that
angers me."

Mrs. Navarro's daughter, Lewina Walters, 22, is scheduled to be deployed with
peacekeeping forces overseas.

"I just feel that the government is not fair," she said, speaking from Fort Drum
in New York.

"I am going overseas to protect this country and yet my mom is going to be
deported. Without her, I can't do anything. I need to know that my mother is
okay."

Ellen Gorman, Mrs. Navarro's St. Petersburg lawyer, filed the motion to try to
stop the deportation and to reopen the case. Friday afternoon, though, she
learned that the motion to reopen the case had been denied. Consequently the
deportation may now proceed.

Ms. Gorman tried one more appeal this week. She said Mrs. Navarro is a victim of
unfortunate circumstances, including her once-poor English skills.

She said that when Mrs. Navarro came to America in 1990, she married a fellow
Indonesian. Their visit to Niagara Falls a few years later set in motion a
series of incidents that led to Mrs. Navarro's current situation.

During that visit, Mrs. Navarro and her then-husband, Dede Setiawan,
accidentally crossed the border into Canada and were stopped when they tried to
re-enter the country, Ms. Gorman said. She was briefly detained, but was
released and her case was transferred to Miami. Over the years as the case was
handed off, deadlines were missed and Mrs. Navarro ended up in the Krome
Detention Center in Miami in 1996. She remained there for 12 days. After her
release, one of a series of attorneys was supposed to keep working to help Mrs.
Navarro become a legal resident.

"In the meantime," Ms. Gorman said, "she kept living her life."

Her marriage to Setiawan collapsed, and they separated. Their divorce became
final on April 10. She married Navarro on June 1, in front of family and friends
at the Oriental Super Buffet on Gulf-to-Bay Boulevard in Clearwater.

Navarro, a former St. Petersburg police officer and Pinellas County Sheriff's
Office deputy, is a pilot for a major airline and flies domestic and
international routes. He met the woman he described as exceedingly kind and
generous in 2001. She was a host at the restaurant she and her first husband
owned in Largo. When Navarro saw her again about a year after their first
meeting, she told him that she and Setiawan had separated. Navarro said he
helped her move into an apartment in Pinellas Park.

"The apartment was too small, the rent was high, and I felt sorry for her and
wanted to help. And I bought another house," said Navarro, who lives in
Clearwater.

"I put enough down on it where the mortgage was going to be the same as the rent
she was paying."

It was at that Clearwater house, a short distrance from her husband's home, that
Mrs. Navarro was picked up by immigration officials. The couple had been
alternating between Navarro's home, which he shares with his 15-year-old son,
and Mrs. Navarro's, where she lived with her 8-year-old twin boys and an
18-year-old son.

The entire family was going to start their new life together in the Riverview
home, Navarro said.

"We were supposed to close on the 31st of July. . . . This is going down to the
wire," he said.

His 85-year-old mother, whose legs have been amputated for medical reasons, was
going to join them at the new home, he said.

His new wife cares about his mother, who lives in an assisted living facility,
Navarro said.

"One of the reasons for buying a bigger house is she told me we have to take my
mother out of the facility and bring her home," he said.

At the Clay County Jail, Mrs. Navarro said she reads the Bible and prays.

"I lost my appetite. I lost 10 pounds. I want to go home," she said, her voice
breaking at times.

"I want to start a new life with my husband and my kids. We just want to start a
new life together. . . . I hope this week I can have good news."

- Times researcher Caryn Baird contributed to this report.

LOAD-DATE: July 30, 2003

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                    Copyright 2003 Times Publishing Company


                              200 of 302 DOCUMENTS

                         St. Petersburg Times (Florida)

                             July 31, 2003 Thursday

American dream suddenly shattered

BYLINE: WAVENEY ANN MOORE

SECTION: LARGO TIMES; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 1037 words

DATELINE: CLEARWATER


Everything seemed to be falling into place for Elizabeth Setiawan Navarro. Newly
remarried, she and her airline pilot husband and their blended family soon would
move into a $400,000, seven-bedroom home.

But the insistent ringing of her doorbell before dawn on July 9 would jar her
from her American dream. The woman who delighted in excursions to the mall soon
would be clad in prison garb.

That morning, while she and her family were asleep, federal agents came to her
house and arrested her on an outstanding deportation order. Mrs. Navarro, who is
from Indonesia, said she tried to explain that she had been granted a stay of
the order, that she was now married to an American citizen and that a new
application was being filed to legalize her immigration status. But the wheels
were already spinning.

"They say I have to go to jail," Mrs. Navarro, 44, said in a telephone interview
from the Clay County Jail.

"I feel hurt. I don't do anything wrong. I stay here already two weeks. I want
to go home."

Federal officials disagree.

Mrs. Navarro's arrest was part of an operation conducted in the Tampa Bay area,
said Barbara Gonzalez, Florida spokeswoman for the Bureau of Immigration and
Customs Enforcement.

"She was granted voluntary departure. She failed to leave the country, which is
a clear violation of immigration laws. She failed to leave, so that became a
final order (of removal) case," Ms. Gonzalez said.

"Subsequent to her arrest, she filed a motion to reopen and a stay of removal
went into place. Just recently, the motion to reopen was denied by an
immigration judge and the stay of removal was lifted.

"This person did have her due process rights."

Her husband, Ramon Navarro, 55, is trying to get his wife released. He wept
Friday after learning that an immigration judge had denied the request to reopen
her case. He has written to Florida Sen. Bill Nelson, Rep. C.W. Bill Young,
R-Largo, Sen. Bob Graham and the judge overseeing his wife's case. He has hired
an attorney. He even has enlisted the help of the family priest.

"This is just another sob story to some people, but on top of that, her daughter
is in the Army," he said.

"Her daughter is willing to sacrifice her life to go somewhere and get shot at
and at the same time, this country is going to deport her mother, and that
angers me."

Mrs. Navarro's daughter, Lewina Walters, 22, is scheduled to be deployed with
peacekeeping forces overseas.

"I just feel that the government is not fair," she said, speaking from Fort Drum
in New York.

"I am going overseas to protect this country and yet my mom is going to be
deported. Without her, I can't do anything. I need to know that my mother is
okay."

Ellen Gorman, Mrs. Navarro's St. Petersburg lawyer, filed the motion to try to
stop the deportation and to reopen the case. Friday afternoon, though, she
learned that the motion to reopen the case had been denied. Consequently the
deportation may now proceed.

Ms. Gorman tried one more appeal this week. She said Mrs. Navarro is a victim of
unfortunate circumstances, including her once-poor English skills.

She said that when Mrs. Navarro came to America in 1990, she married a fellow
Indonesian. Their visit to Niagara Falls a few years later set in motion a
series of incidents that led to Mrs. Navarro's current situation.

During that visit, Mrs. Navarro and her then-husband, Dede Setiawan,
accidentally crossed the border into Canada and were stopped when they tried to
re-enter the country, Ms. Gorman said. She was briefly detained but was released
and her case was transferred to Miami. Over the years as the case was handed
off, deadlines were missed and Mrs. Navarro ended up in the Krome Detention
Center in Miami in 1996. She remained there for 12 days. After her release, one
of a series of attorneys was supposed to keep working to help Mrs. Navarro
become a legal resident.

"In the meantime," Ms. Gorman said, "she kept living her life."

Her marriage to Setiawan collapsed, and they separated. Their divorce became
final on April 10. She married Navarro on June 1, in front of family and friends
at the Oriental Super Buffet on Gulf-to-Bay Boulevard in Clearwater.

Navarro, a former St. Petersburg police officer and Pinellas County Sheriff's
Office deputy, is a pilot for a major airline and flies domestic and
international routes. He met the woman he described as exceedingly kind and
generous in 2001. She was a host at the restaurant she and her first husband
owned in Largo. When Navarro saw her again about a year after their first
meeting, she told him that she and Setiawan had separated. Navarro said he
helped her move into an apartment in Pinellas Park.

"The apartment was too small, the rent was high, and I felt sorry for her and
wanted to help. And I bought another house," said Navarro, who lives in
Clearwater.

"I put enough down on it where the mortgage was going to be the same as the rent
she was paying."

It was at that Clearwater house, a short distrance from her husband's home, that
Mrs. Navarro was picked up by immigration officials. The couple had been
alternating between Navarro's home, which he shares with his 15-year-old son,
and Mrs. Navarro's, where she lived with her 8-year-old twin boys and an
18-year-old son.

The entire family was going to start their new life together in the Riverview
home, Navarro said.

"We were supposed to close on the 31st of July. . . . This is going down to the
wire," he said.

His 85-year-old mother, whose legs have been amputated for medical reasons, was
going to join them at the new home, he said.

His new wife cares about his mother, who lives in an assisted living facility,
Navarro said.

"One of the reasons for buying a bigger house is she told me we have to take my
mother out of the facility and bring her home," he said.

At the Clay County Jail, Mrs. Navarro said she reads the Bible and prays.

"I lost my appetite. I lost 10 pounds. I want to go home," she said, her voice
breaking at times.

"I want to start a new life with my husband and my kids. We just want to start a
new life together. . . . I hope this week I can have good news."

- Times researcher Caryn Baird contributed to this report.

LOAD-DATE: July 31, 2003

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: PHOTO, Navarro family photo; Elizabeth Setiawan married Ramon Navarro
on June 1.

                    Copyright 2003 Times Publishing Company


                              201 of 302 DOCUMENTS

                         St. Petersburg Times (Florida)

                August 25, 2003 Monday 1 North Pinellas Edition

Immigrants in custody after landing illegally

SOURCE: Compiled from Wire Reports

SECTION: METRO & STATE; Pg. 3B

LENGTH: 279 words

DATELINE: JUPITER; LAKE HAMILTON


Seventeen Haitians and one Jamaican were caught Sunday after they illegally
entered Palm Beach County on a boat.

Nine men, five women and four children were taken into Border Patrol custody to
be deported, said Barbara Gonzalez, spokeswoman for the Bureau of Customs and
Border Protection. Most illegal immigrants, except Cubans, are returned to their
home country if caught.

A man and a woman who were slightly dehydrated received medical treatment.

Residents spotted the immigrants after they reached shore in Jupiter Inlet and
left the boat, police Sgt. James Feeney said.

Officers arrived to round up the immigrants while Border Patrol officials were
en route. Palm Beach County sheriff's deputies seized the boat.

Officials were investigating whether smugglers were involved.

Tree cutter dies of blow from falling limb

LAKE HAMILTON - An employee of a tree-cutting company died after the limb of a
falling tree struck him as he ran to get out of the way.

Troy Rogers, 59, was airlifted to Lakeland Regional Medical Center, where he
died Saturday.

The accident occurred as Rogers and his boss, Chad Hunt, were cutting down a
pine tree that hung over a house.

Sheriff's Deputy Doug Alexander said Rogers, who works for C&J Tree Service, was
holding a rope tied to the tree while his boss cut it down. When the tree
started to fall, Rogers, thinking the tree was going to fall toward him, ran in
the opposite direction.

But the tree fell in the direction that he ran, and he was hit as the tree
crashed to the ground, Alexander said.

"He just made an error in judgment," he said. "It teetered, and he took off the
wrong way."

- From wire reports

LOAD-DATE: August 25, 2003

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DISTRIBUTION: METRO & STATE; CITY & STATE; TAMPA & STATE

SERIES: AROUND THE STATE

TYPE: DIGEST

                    Copyright 2003 Times Publishing Company


                              202 of 302 DOCUMENTS

                         St. Petersburg Times (Florida)

                August 29, 2003 Friday 0 South Pinellas Edition

Don't support "scholar' with malice for Islam

SECTION: EDITORIAL; Pg. 17A

LENGTH: 1724 words


Re: Senseless attacks on Islamic scholar, by Charles Krauthammer, Aug. 15.

This is not the first time Charles Krauthammer expresses his one-sided approach
on matters related to Muslims and Islam, but this time he has crossed the line
and insulted our intelligence by his comments about Daniel Pipes.

Pipes has devoted his career to spreading hate, fear and bigotry against
immigrants and Muslims. If one visits the Web site of the Middle East Forum (
http://www.meforum.org), he will find scores of articles written by Pipes since
the 1980s. Just select any five written pieces at random and read them. You will
come away with a distinctive thread that runs through all Pipes' written work -
a tinge of malice in respect to almost every aspect of Islam. Although Pipes
writes from the Jewish perspective, he is more like a character from a
Shakespearian tragedy. He really can't help himself.

In an article titled The Muslims are coming! The Muslims are coming! appearing
in the National Review on Nov. 19, 1990, Pipes says "All immigrants bring exotic
customs and attitudes, but Muslim customs are more troublesome than most." In
the same article, Pipes describes Muslims as "brown skin peoples cooking strange
foods and not exactly maintaining Germanic standards of hygiene." Pipes
continues with "Muslim immigrants bring with them a chauvinism that augurs badly
for their integration into the mainstream of European societies."

Pipes stated that 15 percent of the Muslims in the world are "potential
terrorists and killers." In an interview by Mark Richardson that was in the
Ontario (Canada) Free Press, Pipes was quoted as saying, "I worry very much from
the Jewish point of view that the presence and increased stature and affluence
and enfranchisement (voting rights) of American Muslims will present a true
danger to the American Jews."

We doubt if Pipes truly represents the vast majority of Jews because out of all
minorities, Jews know the most what it means to be singled out and persecuted
due to increased stature and affluence.

Sen. Tom Harkin, D-Iowa, was outraged by Pipes' comments. Harkin states, "From
the deepest part of my body I strongly disagree with Pipes when he says that the
very fact of enfranchisement, affluence and assimilation will somehow threaten
our values; the opposite is true. They have taken our American values and have
become American Muslims."

So how can anyone describe such a person as a "scholar" and, worse, how can such
a person serve our country's interests in the U.S. Institute of Peace, a federal
agency charged with the mission of expanding society's knowledge about the
changing nature and conduct of international relations and the management of
international conflicts as well as increasing understanding about international
conflicts, and approaches to their prevention, management and resolution?

Roy Smith, Tampa, and Ezzat Zaki, Lithia

President is protecting U.S. interests

Re: Build a coalition of the free, letter, Aug. 22.

The letter writer states that before the war in Iraq, he predicted that "if we
continue, we will force a war of Muslims against the non-Muslim world."

The fact is, militant Islam has been at war against the non-Muslim world long
before the war in Iraq, but we didn't know it. Their lethal acts of terrorism go
back decades, before Osama bin Laden appeared on the scene.

President Bush is the first one to recognize this war for what it is and to take
appropriate action to protect American interests. And for that, he is castigated
by the Democrats and our European fair-weather friends.

The writer is naive in thinking that when the Iraqi people see that their
"wanton self-destruction" is counterproductive, they will stop. With a madman
like Saddam Hussein as their leader? Fat chance.

Part of the writer's simple solution is to stop supporting Israel, the only
democracy in the Middle East. He states that Israel is "an artificially created
country." He doesn't mention that almost all the Arab countries in the Middle
East are artificially created.

What is really confusing about his letter is that he starts off by saying we
should stop trying to be "the savior of the world" but ends up saying we should
establish a "coalition of the free." What then is the writer leaving for the
United Nations to do?

Marvin Katz, Oldsmar

The "slugging' won't be easy

Re: Iraq nightmares are coming true, by Maureen Dowd, Aug. 21.

Maureen Dowd is right on the mark with our situation in Iraq. We (the United
States) have started something we don't know quite how to finish!

Things continue to look worse each and every day. Bombings and death escalate
while we seem to be unable to control the situation. We've opened a Pandora's
box and have lost the ability to contain things.

Dowd's last paragraph sums it up: "So where are we? We can't leave, and we can't
stay forever. We just have to slug it out."

This "slugging" won't be easy.

Dorothy E. Karkheck, Dunedin

Let's mind our own business

During the 1930s, I was often told by adults to "M.Y.O.B." That is, mind your
own business!

At the age of 75, I advise the United States to M.Y.O.B. We stick our nose
everywhere! Who died and left the United States boss?

We don't belong in the Middle East! We don't belong in Iraq! We need to get this
"one nation under God" back to the basics. We need a large dose of humility!

Ralph A. Packard Jr., St. Petersburg

Don't play politics with planes

When on the Air Staff in the late 1970s Pentagon, it was very apparent to me
that the priorities between competing requirements favored everything but
getting new engines for an underpowered and potentially dangerous refueling
tanker, the KC-135. There were times during the takeoff phase that the airplane
was doomed if certain conditions occurred. Finally, the tiring airframe was
given a new engine in the early 1980s, and the rest is history.

Today we again find the military trying to modernize the air-refueling
capabilities that have been so critical to the Gulf War and again to the Iraq
campaign. The problem is no longer the engines but the tired airframe that first
came into the inventory in 1954. A half-century old and we expect our pilots to
fly the same aircraft that the airlines have taken out of their inventory over
30 years ago. When was the last time you flew commercially on a 707 aircraft?

Today's budget will not let the military buy a new refueling aircraft. The Air
Force has worked for two years to negotiate a deal to lease a new refueling
tanker to begin to replace its aging fleet. With 40 percent of the fleet out of
commission for repair at any given time, our fighting men and women are
desperate for new tankers.

Congress is getting ready to vote on whether to approve the Air Force's
negotiated lease deal with the Boeing Aircraft Co. And some folks are playing
politics as usual up in Washington to stop our troops from getting the planes
they need. While our representatives are home this month, all citizens who
support our troops must contact their congressional offices and let the
lawmakers know that we won't stand for political games when it comes to winning
the war on terror.

Charles R. Schaefer, lieutenant colonel (retired),

U.S. Air Force, Niceville

Bush's support for veterans is scarce

I am somewhat surprised President Bush chose to make an address at the American
Legion convention. And I'm even more surprised he got a uniformly enthusiastic
reception.

I say this because of the way the White House has dug in its heels in opposing
an end to the "Disabled Veterans Tax." Moreover, the White House has generally
not been a supporter of veterans issues. President Bush may be a friend of the
military, but that's active military. He spends money like it's going out of
style, but he gives veterans the short end of the stick, so to speak. Oh, he
might talk like he cares about the veterans, but when it comes time to put words
into action, not only does he come up short, he also stands in the way.

Ernest Lane, Trinity

Labor costs send jobs elsewhere

Re: Let them work for their wages, letter, Aug. 25.

I found it rather interesting that the letter supporting an increase in the
minimum wage appeared in the same issue of Times as did Robert Trigaux's
excellent, but disturbing, article (The call to move overseas) on the increasing
trend of "out-sourcing" jobs to overseas locations. Corporations are making this
move based simply on economics. The labor rate in countries such as China,
India, Malaysia etc., is far less than it is in the United States. Yet the
letter writer states that "These writers would have you believe raising the
minimum wage would hurt businesses. It hasn't yet."

If it hasn't, it's because those businesses have moved their manufacturing
and/or service centers off-shore to cut costs! If we continue to increase the
minimum wage, this problem will worsen to the extent where we'll have teenagers
"flipping burgers" for $10 an hour but too few people with jobs to afford them!

Bob Lindskog, Palm Harbor

Suddenly, we're noticing

Re: The call to move overseas, Aug. 25.

Does it suddenly seem more serious when white-collar jobs find a home overseas?
I doubt if this revelation plays well with those thousands of blue-collar
workers who have already "bit the bullet." Sometimes it takes a personal
experience to recognize someone else's pain.

The big question should be: "How much longer does this go on?" It's just a shame
this economic policy can't affect the jobs of politicians. If their jobs were
even remotely threatened, the laws that allow this job exodus would probably
change overnight.

Russ Kelley, Largo

Why change a good thing?

Re: New comic section.

The new comics are far too many, and they are not any good. And some are
colorless in more ways than one. Why did you change a good thing when you
already had a good mix? Now it is a nuisance. I don't want to get involved with
that section anymore.

Separating the puzzles was not a good idea either. That package of good,
lightweight fun was quick and easy to fit into a quick breakfast break. Now it's
a mess of gobbledygook.

S.D. Haddock, Brooksville

LOAD-DATE: August 29, 2003

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

SERIES: LETTERS

GRAPHIC: CARTOON, DON ADDIS; "VOUCHER VULTURE PARK:" A man on a bench feeds
"Voucher Bucks" to a group of birds that includes two vultures, one with a sign
that reads "DUBIOUS SCHOOLS."

TYPE: LETTER

                    Copyright 2003 Times Publishing Company


                              203 of 302 DOCUMENTS

                         St. Petersburg Times (Florida)

               September 5, 2003 Friday 0 South Pinellas Edition

Lack of health care drives the poor to the ER

SECTION: EDITORIAL; Pg. 13A

LENGTH: 2065 words


I have just read several articles in Wednesday's Times that I find deeply
disturbing. At the same time that Florida's immigrant population approaches 20
percent, with a 44 percent increase in immigrants nationwide since 1990, and
1.4-million more people nationally falling into poverty, the Bush administration
is relaxing the rules that obligate hospital emergency rooms to provide care to
the indigent (New rule will change emergency room care).

I have spent a lifetime working to help the poor and foreign-born gain access to
health care. As a Florida health planner for Region 6, I chaired a committee
that ran an innovative and award-winning program to provide primary health care
to these populations. The care, concern and dedication of these committee
members was not enough to save the program when federal funding cuts resulted in
a loss of access to health care for more than 1,500 of Florida's rural poor
(more than 60 percent of whom were employed). I completed research in one rural
county that demonstrated economic limitations were the overwhelming obstacle to
access to health care for this population.

Working on the U.S.-Mexico border with the Centers for Disease Control and
Prevention and WHO-PAHO (World Health Organization-Pan American Health
Organization), I documented the thousands of impoverished American citizens
crossing the border to access medical care in Mexico, where it was available at
low or no cost. We very seldom hear that story in the United States.

It is not EMTALA (1986's Emergency Medical Treatment and Labor Act) that
"encouraged people to seek free care in emergency rooms," but the lack of a
program to provide minimum standards of health care to every resident of our
nation. For many hard-working, low-income residents of this country, EMTALA
provides the only gateway they have to any kind of medical treatment.

The disparity between survival rates for minority and white cancer victims
(Cancer deaths level off after years of decline), as well as other chronic
illnesses is, at least in part, attributable to differential access to
treatment. Programs to provide free screenings for cancer, diabetes, high blood
pressure and other chronic conditions in low-income communities are laudable,
but will never be effective in improving community health until funds are
available for followup treatment.

Does the current policy "contribute to the overcrowding of emergency rooms"? You
bet it does! Is treating these conditions in hospital emergency rooms an
inefficient use of scarce resources? Absolutely! But until this country embraces
a policy that secures the right to basic health care for every human being
living within its borders, it provides the only safety net for our most
vulnerable community members.

Lynette Benson Theisen, St. Petersburg

Use NASA funds here on earth

Re: New rule will change emergency room care.

By Jove! I think I've got it! I am referring to the badly needed solution to the
ever-changing problem of emergency room care. Instead of putting this new rule
into effect on Nov. 10, I propose that we stop throwing away - oops - I mean
investing billions of dollars, into our broken-down space program at NASA.
Instead, we can invest that money on living human beings, right here on earth.
No one should ever be denied medical treatment and/or be turned away from any
hospital emergency room. What ever happened to the Hippocratic oath? Each and
every individual, no matter how little money he or she may have, deserves to get
whatever treatment is necessary, in any given medical emergency.

It is totally obscene to waste billions in order to send astronauts into space
conducting dysfunctional experiments and blow away wads on a money-sucking
international space station. For crying out loud, we could use that money right
here on earth to save lives. What is more important, the mystery of the unknown
in outer space or saving and preserving the lives of our own people? Leave it to
the mean spiritedness of the Bush administration to "relax the rules" of
hospital emergency rooms. Just as long as their shenanigans don't affect any of
their loved ones, they could not care less about the rest of us peons.

JoAnn Lee Frank, Clearwater

Compassionate conservatism

Re: New rule will change emergency room care.

According to George W. Bush, not only should they be out of work, destitute,
homeless and uneducated, now the poor will also have to suffer through
life-threatening emergencies with even more limited access to medical care. Laws
dating back to the Reagan administration are being altered. Apparently it costs
hospitals too much to treat people who don't have proof of insurance.

How many of us actually believe that the mega-corporation hospitals, with all
the subsidies and tax breaks directed at HMOs and pharmaceuticals trickling down
to them, are really so burdened with caring for a few poor people when they are
charging the rich people thousands of dollars for a bed? Give me a break. CEOs
and hospital administrators are not doctors - they are businesspeople. Hence,
they never took an oath to "do no harm," and they are more interested in padding
their personal profits than providing emergency care for people who may or not
be able to afford it. Those poor, suffering, wealthy, greedy administrators!
Maybe we should all just bleed to death on the street.

Boy, compassionate conservatism is great isn't it?

Nate Stafford, Tampa

U.S. needs a single-payer system

Financing of the U.S. health system is in very deep trouble and the only
rational, viable solution to fixing it is a single-payer system. The United
States spends $1.6-trillion per year on heath care. This is more than $5,000 for
each man woman and child. We spend a greater percentage of our GNP on health
care than any industrialized country in the world. And yet with these
expenditures we have 40-million people uninsured and probably another 40-million
underinsured. We have men, women and children dying and crippled because they do
not have access to quality care. We have elderly citizens who cannot pay for
prescription drugs. Managed care is failing in every aspect. It is simply
administratively too costly and has produced excessive paperwork and time
consumption. And it has produced a plethora of parasites feeding off the system
without justifiable results.

With the savings from a single-payer system we can provide health care for
everyone and prescription drugs for the elderly. This has been well documented
in two recent studies published in the New England Journal of Medicine which
demonstrate administrative costs of 31 percent in our current inefficient
system.

There are several myths about a single-payer system that should be dispelled:

1. We cannot afford it. Fact, we are already paying for it.

2. This is "socialized medicine" (government run). Fact, the government would
not run medicine. It simply would collect the taxes and pay the bills. Medicine
would be run by the patients and their physicians. Patients can influence their
care by their vote. They cannot influence the boards of the large for-profit
insurance companies.

3. Medicine will be rationed. There will be long waiting lists. Fact, there are
waiting lists in Canada and the United Kingdom for elective procedures, but
these countries spend only a fraction of what we spend on health care. If they
spent what we do, there would be no waiting lists.

Medical care is not a privilege. Every living human is entitled to good health
and good medical care, not just the privileged few. The system cannot be fixed
incrementally. A single-payer system is the only viable solution. The United
States is the only industrialized nation that does not have such a system.

David A. Cimino, M.D., St. Petersburg

Interest in bedside manner is welcome

Re: Just what doctor ordered: a test for bedside

manner, Aug. 31.

I am delighted to learn of renewed interest in the bedside manner and hope the
skills are not shelved after the examination has been passed.

When I got my degree, medical science was rudimentary in contrast to today. We
distinguished between the "art of medicine," and the science, leaning heavily on
the former because of limitations of the latter. Gratuitous service was a
hallmark of the profession. The hours were long and the doctors' families shared
the stresses. The public responded with high esteem for physicians.

I can explain, though not condone, the deterioration in the "art." The world has
become largely depersonalized. Hospitals are far less dependent on charitable
income and many are owned by profitmaking corporations. Ethnic communities and
intimate neighbors of the past, held together by common needs, have disappeared.
Families have separated geographically. Communication is now by digital means
and telephone menus rather than live voice contacts. Bills are paid by third
parties at fixed rates. Quantum advancements in medical science have led to
longer life and improved quality of life.

Medical education has become more difficult, longer and more costly. It is
never-ending, if one is to keep abreast of advances. Space, computer science,
basic research and other intellectual pursuits are competing for the most
talented students. The litigious medical malpractice environment, paperwork
demands and practice controls are additional deterrents.

In this world, it is not surprising that doctors have also changed. I sincerely
hope, however, that compassion and the invaluable "laying on of hands" will
return to those practitioners who have forgotten them under the pressures of
their daily work.

Seymour S. Bluestone, M.D. '43, retired, Clearwater

Experience teaches bedside manner

Re: Just what doctor ordered: a test for bedside

manner.

Being the smartest student in your class doesn't make you the best doctor,
neither does being the most compassionate person. What does is years of
experience that no one can really teach you. I know doctors who are rude,
arrogant and may not listen to everything a patient says, but they are excellent
physicians, being able to diagnose and treat appropriately, efficiently and
effectively.

Forcing med students to spend more than $1,000 to travel and face 10 "patients"
with pretend diseases will in no way make them better physicians. As students
they have the opportunity to interview and treat patients in the hospital, be
mentored by community physicians to interact with their patients, and serve in
clinics such as the Judeo-Christian Health Clinic to see real patients with real
problems. It's what you call "on-the-job training."

Bedside manner is learned over years of experience, not during a 10-patient
practical exam. And the last thing I want to do upon entering the exam room is
to shake my patient's hand, only to learn upon further questioning that he or
she might have an upper respiratory infection or diarrhea.

David Lubin, M.D., Tampa

When medicine is out of reach

How can anyone stomach what our government is doing - or rather not doing -
about drug coverage?

The drug companies' defense is always that they need the proceeds from
exorbitantly priced drugs to be able to do research on new drugs. Of course, one
may presume they also need it to finance the avalanche of drug commercials - and
to buy our legislators.

But if seniors and others cannot afford to buy these new drugs, what is the
point?

This shabby treatment is a national disgrace. As long as politicians on both
sides of the aisle line their pockets with drug money, there is no hope. "A pox
on both your houses."

Does no one feel shame that the wealthiest county in the world has one of the
worst health care systems among developed nations? I honestly don't know how
they sleep at night.

Doris Whelan, St. Petersburg

Share your opinions

We invite readers to write to us. Letters for publication should be addressed to
Letters to the Editor, P.O. Box 1121, St. Petersburg, FL 33731.

They can be sent by fax to (727) 893-8675 or by e-mail to letters@sptimes.com
(no attachments, please).

They should be brief and must include the writer's name, address and phone
number. Please include a handwritten signature when possible.

Letters may be edited for clarity, taste and length. We regret that not all
letters can be published.

LOAD-DATE: September 5, 2003

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

SERIES: LETTERS

TYPE: LETTER

                    Copyright 2003 Times Publishing Company


                              204 of 302 DOCUMENTS

                         St. Petersburg Times (Florida)

                September 18, 2003 Thursday 2 Late Tampa Edition

Immigration inspector indicted in forgery case

SECTION: TAMPA & STATE; Pg. 6B

LENGTH: 105 words


A senior U.S. immigration inspector was arrested and charged Wednesday  with
conspiracy and falsifying immigration documents for his girlfriend and her
family, the U.S. attorney's office said.

Hector Aybar-Mendez, 45, of Kissimmee was indicted on nine counts alleging that
he forged, altered and falsely made immigration documentation and admission
stamps in the passports of the woman, her children and her niece, who are
Colombian citizens, and helped them illegally obtain Social Security cards.

The U.S. Department of Homeland Security helped Orange County and state law
enforcement agencies with the investigation.

LOAD-DATE: September 18, 2003

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

SERIES: BRIEFLY

TYPE: DIGEST

                    Copyright 2003 Times Publishing Company


                              205 of 302 DOCUMENTS

                         St. Petersburg Times (Florida)

              September 27, 2003 Saturday 0 South Pinellas Edition

56 arrested in connection with child sex crime case

SOURCE: Compiled from Wire Reports

SECTION: CITY & STATE; Pg. 5B

LENGTH: 260 words

DATELINE: WASHINGTON; MIAMI


The latest arrests in an international investigation into child sex crimes has
resulted in the arrest of 56 foreigners in South Florida, federal authorities
said.

The investigation, dubbed "Operation Predator," has resulted in more than 1,000
arrests nationwide since July 9, authorities said. The Florida arrests involved
people who had been convicted of crimes involving children, and occurred over
three days this week in Miami-Dade, Broward and Palm Beach counties. These
aliens, from 18 countries, will be deported, officials said.

Among those charged in the broader probe are U.S. citizens who traveled abroad
to have sex with minors, people who allegedly molested mentally impaired
children and people who smuggled foreign children into the United States to work
as prostitutes, federal officials say.

Jury convicts ex-educator in money laundering case

MIAMI - A former University of South Carolina president was convicted Friday of
charges that he schemed with an undercover officer to get visas under false
names and launder drug money.

James Holderman, who already had two convictions on his record, had claimed he
was lured into crimes he never intended to commit while desperate for money to
treat his mental illness.

The jury found Holderman guilty of conspiracy to launder money, attempted
laundry of money, conspiracy to sell false immigration documents and offering to
sell false immigration documents. Holderman, 67, of Charleston, S.C., will
remain free on $50,000 bail until sentencing.

- Compiled from Times wires.

LOAD-DATE: September 28, 2003

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DISTRIBUTION: CITY & STATE; METRO & STATE; TAMPA & STATE

SERIES: AROUND THE STATE

TYPE: DIGEST

                    Copyright 2003 Times Publishing Company


                              206 of 302 DOCUMENTS

                         St. Petersburg Times (Florida)

                           September 28, 2003 Sunday

Deported mom longs for family

BYLINE: WAVENEY ANN MOORE

SECTION: NEIGHBORHOOD TIMES; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 585 words


Elizabeth Setiawan Navarro's twin sons will celebrate their ninth birthday
without her Saturday.

The Indonesian woman, who had hoped to move into a $400,000, seven-bedroom home
with her new husband and blended family, has been deported.

Her husband, Ramon Navarro, 55, is fighting to get her back on U.S. soil. He
could be in for a long wait.

Mrs. Navarro was arrested July 9 as part of an immigration sweep in the Tampa
Bay area. She was sent to the Clay County Jail until her deportation Aug. 15.

Immigration officials have said she failed to leave the country when ordered to
do so. That resulted in a final deportation order.

Her removal comes with stiff penalties. She is barred from re-entering the
country for 10 years, said John C. Miotke, a partner in the St. Petersburg
immigration law firm of Gorman, Miotke & Associates, which is handling Mrs.
Navarro's case. But there might be a way out.

The lawyer said his firm has filed for a visa that would allow Mrs. Navarro, 44,
to return as a married spouse of a U.S. citizen.

Her husband is hopeful. Mr. Navarro, an airline pilot, said he is trying to get
help from politicians. Earlier this month, he visited his wife at her parents'
home in Jakarta.

"I went on Sept. 8 and came back on the 13th. She's still sad, still crying," he
said. "I say, thank God she's with her family and not in jail. She keeps asking
what are the chances of this new thing working?"

He said he was not allowed to see his wife at the airport before she was
deported.

"I call her on the phone every day," he said, adding that they also communicate
by e-mail.

According to Navarro and his wife's attorneys, Mrs. Navarro came to America in
1990 and married a fellow Indonesian.

Their visit to Niagara Falls a few years later set in motion a series of
incidents that eventually led to her deportation. During that visit, Mrs.
Navarro and her then-husband, Dede Setiawan, accidentally crossed the border
into Canada and were stopped when they tried to re-enter the United States. She
was briefly detained but was released.

Her case was transferred to Miami. Over the years, as the case was handed off,
deadlines were missed and Mrs. Navarro ended up in the Krome Detention Center in
Miami in 1996. She remained there for 12 days. After her release, a lawyer was
supposed to keep working to help Mrs. Navarro become a legal resident.

But her marriage to Setiawan collapsed, and they separated. Their divorce became
final April 10.

She married Navarro on June 1 in Clearwater and planned to move to their new
home in Hillsborough County. Before she was arrested, the couple, who are
Catholic, had been working to resolve the visa problems with the help of
Catholic Charities.

"At no time did Ms. Setiawan ever hide herself," Miotke said. "She was always
trying to do the appropriate thing through a series of attorneys who were
representing her."

Mrs. Navarro's fate will be decided by a U.S. consular officer in Jakarta. Her
attorneys hope that officials will consider her family ties in the United
States, including twin sons and a daughter, who is serving with the U.S. Army in
Afghanistan. Navarro is planning to be at his wife's side for the consular's
interview, which is expected in about six months.

"His presence will be extremely important at the time of the interview, if
nothing more than to put an additional face to the application and, really,
somebody who will represent the family, these multiple ties she left behind,"
Miotke said.

LOAD-DATE: September 28, 2003

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: PHOTO, Special to the Times; Elizabeth Setiawan Navarro with her
husband, Ramon Navarro. Wedding photo. (ran East, Beach editions)

                    Copyright 2003 Times Publishing Company


                              207 of 302 DOCUMENTS

                         St. Petersburg Times (Florida)

                           September 29, 2003 Monday

Deported mom longs for family

BYLINE: WAVENEY ANN MOORE

SECTION: LARGO TIMES; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 585 words


Elizabeth Setiawan Navarro's twin sons will celebrate their ninth birthday
without her Saturday.

The Indonesian woman, who had hoped to move into a $400,000, seven-bedroom home
with her new husband and blended family, has been deported.

Her husband, Ramon Navarro, 55, is fighting to get her back on U.S. soil. He
could be in for a long wait.

Mrs. Navarro was arrested July 9 as part of an immigration sweep in the Tampa
Bay area. She was sent to the Clay County Jail until her deportation Aug. 15.

Immigration officials have said she failed to leave the country when ordered to
do so. That resulted in a final deportation order.

Her removal comes with stiff penalties. She is barred from re-entering the
country for 10 years, said John C. Miotke, a partner in the St. Petersburg
immigration law firm of Gorman, Miotke & Associates, which is handling Mrs.
Navarro's case. But there might be a way out, he said.

The lawyer said his firm has filed for a visa that would allow Mrs. Navarro, 44,
to return as a married spouse of a U.S. citizen.

Her husband is hopeful. Mr. Navarro, an airline pilot, said he is trying to get
help from politicians. This month, he visited his wife at her parents' home in
Jakarta.

"I went on Sept. 8 and came back on the 13th. She's still sad, still crying," he
said. "I say, thank God she's with her family and not in jail. She keeps asking
what are the chances of this new thing working?"

He said he was not allowed to see his wife at the airport before she was
deported.

"I call her on the phone every day," he said, adding that they also communicate
by e-mail.

According to Navarro and his wife's attorneys, Mrs. Navarro came to America in
1990 and married a fellow Indonesian.

Their visit to Niagara Falls a few years later set in motion a series of
incidents that eventually led to her deportation. During that visit, Mrs.
Navarro and her then-husband, Dede Setiawan, accidentally crossed the border
into Canada and were stopped when they tried to re-enter the United States. She
was briefly detained but was released.

Her case was transferred to Miami. Over the years, as the case was handed off,
deadlines were missed and Mrs. Navarro ended up in the Krome Detention Center in
Miami in 1996. She remained there for 12 days. After her release, a lawyer was
supposed to keep working to help Mrs. Navarro become a legal resident.

But her marriage to Setiawan collapsed, and they separated. Their divorce became
final April 10.

She married Navarro on June 1 in Clearwater and planned to move to their new
home in Hillsborough County. Before she was arrested, the couple, who are
Catholic, had been working to resolve the visa problems with the help of
Catholic Charities.

"At no time did Ms. Setiawan ever hide herself," Miotke said. "She was always
trying to do the appropriate thing through a series of attorneys who were
representing her."

Mrs. Navarro's fate will be decided by a U.S. consular officer in Jakarta. Her
attorneys hope that officials will consider her family ties in the United
States, including twin sons and a daughter who is serving with the U.S. Army in
Afghanistan. Navarro is planning to be at his wife's side for the consular's
interview, which is expected in about six months.

"His presence will be extremely important at the time of the interview, if
nothing more than to put an additional face to the application and, really,
somebody who will represent the family, these multiple ties she left behind,"
Miotke said.

LOAD-DATE: September 29, 2003

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                    Copyright 2003 Times Publishing Company


                              208 of 302 DOCUMENTS

                         St. Petersburg Times (Florida)

                            October 12, 2003 Sunday

Catholic agency slashes services for immigrants

BYLINE: WAVENEY ANN MOORE

SECTION: NEIGHBORHOOD TIMES; Pg. 11

LENGTH: 574 words

DATELINE: ST. PETERSBURG


Catholic Charities has suffered one of its greatest setbacks in a decade because
of a cut in federal and state funding for programs that helped refugees and area
residents who have been granted asylum in this country, the head of the agency
says.

Arnold Andrews, executive director for Catholic Charities in the Diocese of St.
Petersburg, added that the agency, which provides services that include
affordable housing, respite care, counseling, pregnancy and parent support, was
forced to lay off five full-time people and trim $479,000 from its budget. The
agency has a work force of about 125 people in Pinellas, Hillsborough, Citrus,
Pasco and Hernando counties and an operating budget of about $9-million. Its
capital budget is $10-million.

Andrews said the grant that funded English as a Second Language classes and
helped his agency provide assistance with citizenship and permanent residency
applications was terminated at the end of September. Under the terms of the
contract with the Florida Department of Children and Families, the agency, whose
central office is at 1213 16th St. N, was given 30 days' notice that the program
would be ending.

The sudden cut and other issues caused difficulties for Catholic Charities,
Andrews said.

"We're on a July fiscal year. This was federal money which was for the October
fiscal year.

"There was a gap there that we had to do some juggling."

Though it was painful to let staff go, Andrews said, it is also disquieting to
know that people are being deprived of needed services.

"The state of Florida is a gateway to the South, Central America and Caribbean
areas. And because of the saturation of immigrants in South Florida, the central
part of Florida has been like a portal for this wave immigration," he said.

The Department of Children and Families provides more than 50 refugee assistance
programs across the state that serve almost 60,000 refugees.

"We do not fault the state of Florida, the federal government or anybody else,"
Andrews said.

"However, it is incumbent on everybody to realize how much we owe to the
immigrant who comes to this country,  and if we don't have the money, we need to
find it."

Catholic Legal Immigration Network Inc., or CLINIC, a subsidiary of the United
States Conference of Catholic Bishops, was the lead administrator of the grant
that began in April 2001, Jeff Chenoweth, the organization's division director
of national operations and support, said.

He added that Catholic Charities and Lutheran agencies in St. Petersburg,
Jacksonville, Miami, Orlando, West Palm Beach, Pensacola, Fort Myers and Venice
had expected to receive a total of $2-million for this fiscal year, which began
on Oct. 1.

Statewide, Chenoweth said, ESL classes have ended for more than 500 people
working to get their citizenship. During the past two years, he said, Florida
agencies helped about 5,000 people to get green cards or permanent residency.
They also assisted 1,400 clients to get citizenship, Chenoweth said.
Specifically, Catholic Charities in St. Petersburg helped 1,500 clients get
permanent residency and 600 become citizens.

"These are people who are low income," he said, adding that those served have
included Bosnians, Vietnamese, Iraqis, Cubans, Haitians, Russian Jews and
Somalis.

"It really leaves these people in limbo. We should  be encouraging these people,

 and they can't afford the private attorney's fees."

LOAD-DATE: October 12, 2003

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DISTRIBUTION: NEIGHBORHOOD TIMES; NORTH PINELLAS TIMES

                    Copyright 2003 Times Publishing Company


                              209 of 302 DOCUMENTS

                         St. Petersburg Times (Florida)

                            November 2, 2003 Sunday

Immigrants should be learning English

SECTION: PERSPECTIVE; Pg. 2D

LENGTH: 1405 words


Re: Communication gap: The law lags on language landscape, Oct. 26.

It appears that this country prefers to cater to people who choose not to learn
the common English language. Imagine what we would have had if the same policy
was applied to all the speakers of different languages during the mass influx of
aliens in the earlier days of the United States. There would have been multiple
tongues in all the agencies to help them on their way. We would have had another
continent filled with multiple languages like the Old Country. But that wasn't
the case. These people were quick to learn the common language and blend in.

Is there any effort on the part of governmental agencies to encourage immigrants
to learn the common tongue or are we doomed to kowtowing to their needs? Having
command of the common language should be a primary requirement to gaining
residence. Not doing so threatens our ability to communicate, which already is
very much in jeopardy.

Tom S. Brown, Largo

Shift the responsibility

In your Oct. 26 article The law lags on language landscape, the crux of the
issue seems to be that there needs to be more Spanish-speaking law-enforcement
officers in order to cope with the problems encountered by non-English-speaking
Spanish immigrants. The responsibility seems to be squarely placed on
law-enforcement for training programs and the costs associated with them. What
responsibility is given to the legal and/or illegal immigrants to learn
essential English before or after accepting the generosity of the "good ol'
USA"?

Where is the Spanish-speaking community's leadership? Nonexistent or noncaring?
Can't they recognize the plight of these workers and band together to teach
survival English to all who want to learn? And what about those who choose not
to learn? I only hope that they would be few and far between.

David Miles, St. Petersburg

Don't help illegals

Re: The law lags on language landscape.

The article talks about how we need more Spanish-speaking police officers. We
certainly agree with Brenda Canino-Fumero, the Tampa police Hispanic liaison
officer, about her services being spread thin and needing to be paid more.
However, we and most taxpaying Americans (if you can trust the opinion polls)
prefer not to pay for services that help illegal immigration.

People who are in our country illegally need to be deported. As for people who
are legal immigrants, they need to learn English just as past immigrants did.

Carlton and Tiffany Ford, Largo

To better aid farm workers

Re: It didn't start with Wal-Mart, Oct. 26.

I am writing to comment on Bill Maxwell's column regarding recent raids by
immigration officials on Wal-Mart stores and the resulting arrests of allegedly
illegal workers. The illogic of Maxwell's comments regarding the plight of farm
workers is astounding. He advocates a wholesale roundup of illegal workers in
Florida fields and groves, betting that the numbers of arrests would be "in the
thousands." Arrest and deportation, the hallmarks of our decades-old,
ineffective and incoherent immigration policy, have never solved immigration
problems. Yet Maxwell would call down the wrath of the U.S. government to punish
people who have risked life and limb in order to seek a better life through hard
work.

Maxwell could more constructively employ his journalistic skills in advocating a
realistic and humane solution to the problem. Such a solution is contained in
the AgJobs bill, the Agricultural Job Opportunity, Benefits and Security Act of
2003. Introduced by Sens. Larry Craig, R-Idaho, and Edward Kennedy, D-Mass., and
Reps. Chris Cannon, R-Utah, and Howard Berman D-Calif., it offers solutions for
the agricultural labor crisis while protecting homeland security and advancing
the issue of immigration reform in the national interest. It is supported by
growers, farm worker advocates, Hispanic and immigration issue groups, all
seeking to provide a more stable, secure, safe and legal American agricultural
work force and food supply.

Carl B. Loop Jr., president, Florida Farm

Bureau Federation, Gainesville

Death penalty boondoggle

Re: In death class, Oct. 26.

This article should be required reading for every member of the Legislature.
Capital punishment is the worst possible government boondoggle. The death
penalty results in the needless expenditure of millions of dollars in order to
execute our own citizens, even if some of them are innocent of any crime. The
Legislature is struggling with how to fund the court system under revision seven
to Article V of the Florida Consitution. Soon the state of Florida will be
responsible for all of the local costs of the death penalty that were being paid
by the counties.

How about doing the taxpayers and needy citizens of Florida a favor by freeing
up more than $50-million in annual expenses now used to fund the death industry?
Are our representatives actually capable of making such a common-sense decision?


Adam Tebrugge, Sarasota

A powerful reminder

Re: Anti-Semitism's global comeback, Oct. 26.

Philip Gailey has written a timely and sobering comment on the scourge of
anti-Semitism, which is being fomented throughout the world. Unlike others in
the media who attempt to trivialize this phenomenon as the rantings of a "fringe
element," Gailey's powerful article should remind us that the same
rationalizations were popular among those who dismissed the Nazis of the 1920s
as a "fringe group" who could have no impact on the cultured peoples of Europe.

It is truly dismaying that - with the honorable exceptions of our own president,
and the prime minister of Italy - world leaders have been ominously silent in
responding to the daily manifestations of anti-Semitism, and the United Nations
has been conspicuous by its absence in any effort to address it.

We need more voices who will speak up with the perceptiveness and courage of
Philip Gailey.

Bruce Epstein, Barry Augenbraun,

co-chairs, Jewish Community Relations

Council of the Pinellas Jewish

Federation, Largo

A torch of understanding

Re: Anti-Semitism's global comeback, Oct. 26.

We applaud Philip Gailey's great column in Sunday's St. Petersburg Times
regarding the re-emergence of worldwide anti-Semitism. What the world needs now
is an antidote to the poison of hatred - among nations, peoples and religions.
In the darkness of ignorance and prejudice, Gailey lights a torch of
understanding. Keep up the good work!

Norman and Terry Howard, Clearwater

Vote for a park

We think it is time for the city of St. Petersburg to say goodbye to Albert
Whitted Airport.

The arguments made pro and con can confuse the subject by detailing how the
economics will swing in the short-term with the airport decision. We suggest the
best way to decide the subject is to assume that nothing at all existed on this
site and then evaluate which alternative is in the best long-term interests of
the city and its taxpayers.

We think it is safe to say that establishing an airport in that space would not
even make the top 100 best uses for the site. The top-rated airport in the
country (Tampa International) is less than 30 minutes away and St.
Petersburg-Clearwater International even closer. Anyone suggesting that what
downtown St. Petersburg needs most is a small, heavily subsidized airport, that
adversely impacts it neighbors, would be laughed out of the room.

We urge the voters to decide in favor of the proposal to build a park in place
of Albert Whitted as this would settle the airport question. The long-term
planning for use of the site can then be conducted in a much more positive
atmosphere without the defensive arguments that attack doing anything other than
maintaining the status quo.

Ed and Anna Fagan, St. Petersburg

Keep the airport

As a resident living in downtown St. Petersburg since 1959, I agree with those
who support keeping Albert Whitted Airport as an important transportation
facility.

With business flights, pleasure flights, Bayfront helicopters and civil aircraft
based at the airport, we are very fortunate to be in such a prominent location
necessary for commerce, safety and emergency services.

Our waterfront already has several beautiful parks. The airport is much more
beneficial for our nearby residents and tourists than another park.

Bill Dunihue, St. Petersburg

LOAD-DATE: November 3, 2003

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

SERIES: LETTERS

TYPE: LETTER

                    Copyright 2003 Times Publishing Company


                              210 of 302 DOCUMENTS

                         St. Petersburg Times (Florida)

                           November 5, 2003 Wednesday

A giver with spirit

BYLINE: MICHELE MILLER

SECTION: PASCO TIMES; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 432 words

DATELINE: DADE CITY


(ran PC edition)

Gabriela Chavez is all fired up. After attending the National Conference for
Migrant and Immigrant Youth in Washington, D.C., she's ready and raring to pass
the message on to her peers that there is hope after high school.

"We are the leaders, and we have to help our community," Gabriela said.

A lot of Hispanic students get discouraged, Gabriela said. College is out of
reach for many because their status as illegal immigrants bars them from
receiving government financial aid.

"I hear them talking about dropping out," she said. "I can't tell them that they
have to stay in school. I can't make them do that. But I can tell them about the
alternatives, like dropout prevention programs."

Besides touring the capital and seeing the sites, Gabriela learned more about
those programs and scholarship opportunities for Hispanic students at the
conference. She was one of 10 Florida students selected to attend the conference
after being nominated by Ramiro Tejada, the migrant advocate at Pasco High
School.

She was a perfect choice, said Lucile Rom, the career specialist at Pasco High.

"Gabriela has had that spirit of giving for a while," Rom said. "In her younger
grades, she helped tutor migrant students. She's a bright child with a great
heart and a good character."

"It's always been a pleasure for me to help," Gabriela said.

She has racked up community service hours with the school's NJROTC program and
the Interact service club. She also has been a member of the National Honor
Society, Student Council, Teen Court and weightlifting and track teams. Last
year, Gabriela was  Pasco High's nominee for Disney's Dreamers and Doers Award.

Because of her hopes of going to college, Gabriela has toughened her course load
by taking honors and Advanced Placement classes.

"I started out taking ESOL (English Speakers of Other Languages) classes, but I
knew I could do better," she said.

And although the AP and honors classes are more difficult, "you can do it if you
study. That's what you have to do," she said.

Gabriela hopes to make an impact at her school by possibly starting a club for
Hispanic students.

"I think if we provide information - a program or a club - we can help students
who are thinking about dropping out. Information is the basic thing that they
need," she said.

And while she helps out at school, she hopes to set an example for her younger
brother and sister at home.

"I'm always studying," she said. "And when my sister and brother are watching
the TV, I tell them, "Can you be reading instead of watching TV?' "

LOAD-DATE: November 5, 2003

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

SERIES: TOP OF THE CLASS

GRAPHIC: PHOTO, DAN MCDUFFIE; Pasco High School student Gabriela Chavez recently
attended the National Conference for Migrant and Immigrant Youth in Washington,
D.C.

                    Copyright 2003 Times Publishing Company


                              211 of 302 DOCUMENTS

                         St. Petersburg Times (Florida)

                November 7, 2003 Friday 0 South Pinellas Edition

At last, the hand of citizenship

BYLINE: BRADY DENNIS

SECTION: CITY & STATE; Pg. 1B

LENGTH: 577 words

DATELINE: TAMPA


Tarulata Patel stood straight and proud Thursday beside the American flag inside
the federal immigration office on Cypress Street.

In one hand she held a certificate of citizenship and a letter from President
George W. Bush. In the other, she held two small American flags.

The 42-year-old woman had no idea she had finally become a U.S. citizen. But her
father and sister-in-law sat nearby, beaming. Years of struggle finally had
ended for the Patel family.

Patel, who moved with her parents in 1991 from Zambia to the United States, is
mentally retarded. She rarely speaks. She cannot read or write. She has the mind
of a child.

Patel represents a small slice of immigrants that, until recently, had fallen
through the cracks. While her parents, her brother and other family members
gained citizenship over the years, Patel was rejected.

The reason: Federal law stated that to become a United States citizen, a person
must be able to comprehend the oath of allegiance. For Patel and others in her
situation, that simply was impossible.

"It was just a gross oversight by Congress," said her attorney, John Miotke.

That changed in 2000 when Congress passed a bill that would waive the oath for
those who could not understand it due to a disability. President Bill Clinton
signed the bill on his way out of office.

Even then, no federal regulations existed for how to carry out the new
exception. No forms. No procedures. Finally, the slow wheels of government
turned, and earlier this year U.S. Citizenship and Immigration Services came out
with guidelines.

Patel's request for citizenship proceeded without a glitch.

"This case is a classic example of why the law changed," said Kristen Holland,
interim officer in charge of Citizenship and Immigration Services at the Tampa
USCIS office. "We don't see too many of these cases, but when they fit, they
fit."

For Miotke, who has worked with the family for three years and made it his
mission to see the exception become practice, Thursday's event meant a personal
victory as well as a professional one.

"In immigration practice, it's often frustrating," he said. "To see (this) from
beginning to end and to correct a wrong is really meaningful. It was kind of a
long haul."

For Patel's family, it meant peace of mind in knowing that she is here to stay.

"We certainly are happy," said her brother, Naunit U. Patel, a doctor who
practices in Holiday. "It's a relief to the family. There are other families in
this situation. Hopefully, they will benefit from this, too."

USCIS will hold a formal ceremony in Tampa today, as it does every month, for
more than 500 people to take the oath and become American citizens.

Patel's ceremony Thursday didn't have any of the pomp and circumstance that
today's swearing-in will. In fact, it took place in a nondescript conference
room down a long hallway. It lasted only a minute or two. Holland presided as
Miotke and Patel's family looked on.

"Are you happy?" Holland asked. Patel nodded.

"Do you want to become an American citizen?"

Again, a nod yes.

"We can do that," Holland said. "We can certainly do that."

She handed Patel the certificate, the letter from the president, the two small
flags. And that was it.

"It's hard to do much of a ceremony," Holland said. "But the end result is the
same."

Patel handed over her green card without a word. She turned and walked outside.
Next on her checklist? A passport. An American passport.

LOAD-DATE: November 7, 2003

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DISTRIBUTION: CITY & STATE; METRO & STATE; TAMPA & STATE

GRAPHIC: PHOTO, CHRIS ZUPPA; Kristen Holland of United States Citizenship and
Immigration Services congratulates Tarulata Patel, 42, of Tarpon Springs after
giving Patel her certificate of citizenship Thursday.

                    Copyright 2003 Times Publishing Company


                              212 of 302 DOCUMENTS

                         St. Petersburg Times (Florida)

              November 22, 2003 Saturday 0 South Pinellas Edition

U.S. halts Arab registry effort

SOURCE: Compiled from Times Wires

SECTION: NATIONAL; Pg. 8A

LENGTH: 662 words

DATELINE: WASHINGTON; MIAMI; SAN JOSE, Calif.; LOS ANGELES


The Department of Homeland Security has decided to discontinue a controversial
program that required thousands of Arab and Muslim men to register with
immigration authorities in the aftermath of the Sept. 11 attacks, officials said
on Friday.

Hoping to hunt down terrorists, immigration officials fingerprinted,
photographed and interviewed about 85,000 Muslim and Arab noncitizens between
November 2002 and May 2003 under the program. The effort - the largest to
register immigrants in decades - required annual registration. Men from Iran,
Iraq, Syria, Libya and Sudan have already begun reporting to immigration offices
for a second round of registrations this month.

Officials have acknowledged that most of the Arab and Muslim immigrants who have
complied with the registration requirements had no ties to terrorist groups. Of
the 85,000 men who showed up at immigration offices earlier this year, and the
tens of thousands more screened at airports and border crossings during that
time period, 11 had links to terrorism, officials said.

The program was sharply criticized by civil liberties groups and advocates for
immigrants who said it did little to uncover terrorists and alienated the very
communities that could help uncover terrorists. Advocates for immigrants have
also complained that officials have done little to publicize the second round of
registrations, touching off waves of confusion and anxiety.

Miami protesters accuse police of overreaction

MIAMI - Police were accused Friday of overreacting and using excessive force in
clashes with demonstrators at this week's trade talks.

Police defended their actions, saying Miami averted the kind of widespread
violence that rocked the World Trade Organization meeting in Seattle in 1999.
Seattle was hit with five days of rioting that caused millions in damage.

On Thursday, as trade ministers from 34 countries drafted a blueprint for free
trade in the Western Hemisphere, demonstrators threw water bottles and other
objects at officers, set fires in the street and used slingshots against police.
Riot police responded with tear gas, rubber bullets, batons, concussion grenades
and stun guns.

Police made 146 arrests, compared with 570 during the Seattle protests. At least
three officers and about 140 demonstrators were treated for injuries in Miami.

Another 50 people were arrested Friday outside a Miami-Dade County jail during a
demonstration over the treatment of protesters arrested Thursday. Officers
sprayed tear gas at the demonstrators when police said they refused orders to
disperse.

Also Friday, the National Lawyers Guild asked for an independent investigation
into officers' conduct. The American Civil Liberties Union also was
investigating.

Calif. requires paper voting receipts

SAN JOSE, Calif. - In a major victory for voting rights advocates, California's
secretary of state announced Friday that all electronic voting machines in
California must provide paper receipts by 2006.

Kevin Shelley also introduced stricter requirements for testing and auditing of
the software used to record and tabulate votes in the nation's most-populous
state.

And because California commands a sizable share of the market for voting
machines, the move may prompt changes in equipment being adopted nationwide as
local governments rush to modernize voting systems.

Lawyer calls for removal of Jackson's children

LOS ANGELES - Gloria Allred, a lawyer who has tangled with Michael Jackson,
called Friday for child welfare authorities to temporarily remove the pop star's
three children from his custody because of new child molestation allegations.

Meanwhile, the Santa Barbara district attorney has said he does not plan to file
charges until after Thanksgiving.

In 1993 Allred briefly represented a 13-year-old boy involved in an allegation
that never led to criminal charges. The case ended with Jackson paying a
multimillion-dollar civil settlement.

LOAD-DATE: November 22, 2003

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

SERIES: IN BRIEF

TYPE: DIGEST

                    Copyright 2003 Times Publishing Company


                              213 of 302 DOCUMENTS

                         St. Petersburg Times (Florida)

               November 23, 2003 Sunday 0 South Pinellas Edition

Pensacola seventh-grader suspended for "hit list'

SOURCE: Compiled from Wire Reports

SECTION: CITY & STATE; Pg. 3B

LENGTH: 323 words

DATELINE: PENSACOLA; ORLANDO


A seventh-grader who compiled what officials call a "hit list" of students and
faculty members has been indefinitely suspended from a suburban Pensacola
school.

Norm Ross, Escambia County deputy superintendent of schools, said the list
included nine students and three faculty members whom the student "wanted dead."

An investigation is continuing. Ross said officials could decide by Monday
whether to recommend that the student be expelled.

A student and a parent reported the incident to a sheriff's deputy, who works as
the school's resource officer, on Wednesday.

The Escambia County Sheriff's Office reported the incident to the State
Attorney's Office. But Ross said no charges could be filed because there was no
direct threat on the list.

Bellview principal Steve Marcanio said guidance counselors and teachers would be
available and a peer mediation program would be organized for students who are
having problems.

14 sexual predators arrested, face deportation

ORLANDO - Fourteen immigrants who are convicted sexual predators have been
arrested in central Florida and face deportation. Authorities are searching for
six more.

The arrests come under Operation Predator, an Immigration and Customs
Enforcement project designed to deport immigrants who commit sex crimes in the
United States. Nationwide, the program has arrested 1,400 people; 26 people have
been arrested in central Florida since July.

All but one of the immigrants arrested since July are legal residents in the
United States, coming from 17 countries.

Steven J. Trent, the ICE agent in charge of the Tampa district office, said the
14 arrested have felony convictions for sexual assault on minors.

The program will start deportation hearings for the arrested men, although some
have asked to be expelled from the country as soon as possible. Federal law
allows for the deportation of convicted immigrants.

- Compiled from Times wires

LOAD-DATE: November 23, 2003

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DISTRIBUTION: CITY & STATE; METRO & STATE; TAMPA & STATE

SERIES: AROUND THE STATE

TYPE: DIGEST

                    Copyright 2003 Times Publishing Company


                              214 of 302 DOCUMENTS

                         St. Petersburg Times (Florida)

               November 28, 2003 Friday 0 South Pinellas Edition

Venezuela shifts control of border

BYLINE: PHIL GUNSON; DAVID ADAMS

SECTION: NATIONAL; Pg. 1A

LENGTH: 1506 words

DATELINE: CARACAS, Venezuela


Amid allegations that the Venezuelan government has given identity documents to
foreign terrorists, President Hugo Chavez has put the country's immigration
service in the hands of two young radicals, one of whom is close to the ousted
Iraqi regime of Saddam Hussein.

Hugo Cabezas and Tareck el-Aissami were appointed in the past two months as
director and deputy director, respectively, of the Identification and
Immigration Directorate, known as the DIEX after its initials in Spanish.

Their responsibilities include passports, voter identity cards and border
security. Both men are former student leaders of groups accused of links to
clandestine armed organizations.

"These appointments raise suspicions," said former Minister for Border Issues
Pompeyo Marquez. "The risk is that they can play tricks both as regards
elections and identity cards."

The DIEX appointments come at a sensitive moment in Venezuela's 2-year-old
political crisis. Opposition leaders are to begin collecting signatures today to
call for a national referendum to oust Chavez, with both sides fighting over the
electoral process.

Venezuela is also facing mounting allegations by U.S. officials, and regional
security analysts, over ties to terrorism. Middle Eastern terrorist groups
operate "support cells" in Venezuela, according to U.S. military and
intelligence officials. Left-wing guerrillas in neighboring Colombia also have
training bases inside Venezuelan territory, they say.

The most serious claim, made recently in the pages of the news magazine, U.S.
News & World Report, involves allegations that Venezuelan identity documents
have been issued to foreigners, including some from "Middle Eastern nations that
play host to foreign terrorist organizations."

While the Chavez government makes no secret of its left-wing revolutionary
goals, officials strongly deny any terrorist connections.

Responding to the U.S. News & World Report article, Chavez accused the "extreme
right" in the United States of "trying to justify anything: an assassination, a
coup d'etat, an invasion" to remove him from power.

U.S. officials appear to be torn over how to handle relations with Chavez. The
State Department prefers a cautious approach, anxious not to cause a greater
rift with Venezuela, which supplies the United States with about 13 percent of
total oil imports.

But some U.S. military officials are so concerned by developments in Venezuela
that they would like to see the Bush administration take a tougher approach.

Some analysts say allegations against the Chavez government need to be
considered with care. "It's become so politically divided you don't know who to
believe," said John Shields, Americas editor of Jane's Sentinel Security
Assessment, a leading global risk analysis firm based in London.

"There is gradually a picture building up here," he said, "but it's still a long
way from being able to say that this guy (Chavez) is actually backing
terrorists."

Since his election in December 1998, Chavez has refused to allow U.S.
counter-drug surveillance over Venezuelan airspace, adopted a critical posture
to free trade negotiations and embraced Cuban leader Fidel Castro.

In 2000, Chavez became the first - and only - foreign head of state to visit
Saddam Hussein in Baghdad during the period between the Gulf War and the allied
invasion. Deeply critical of the U.S. action, he sought to have the
post-invasion government excluded from meetings of the oil exporters cartel,
OPEC, of which Venezuela is a founding member. He bitterly opposed the bombing
campaign to remove the Taliban regime in Afghanistan after the Sept. 11 attacks.

Cabezas, 30, and el-Aissami, 28, are both radical "Chavistas" who emerged as
student leaders at the University of the Andes in the city of Merida, about 300
miles southwest of the capital, Caracas.

The university city of Merida has for decades been a haven for guerrilla groups,
both domestic and foreign. Venezuelan and Colombian guerrilla groups continue to
maintain an armed presence at the university, with the alleged complicity of
Merida state government officials, according to students and university
officials.

Merida's governor is a former army officer close to Chavez, Florencio Porras.
Cabezas was his private secretary until last year.

State officials deny the allegations. Even so, students and academics point to a
dramatic upsurge in radical student activity during el-Aissami's two-year tenure
as president of the student union. Prior to his departure in July, armed groups
consolidated their presence in student residences, they say.

A report by the vice rectorate of academic affairs recently found that of 1,122
people living in a student housing complex, only 387 were active students. More
than 600 are completely unconnected to the university.

While the university provides essential services at the residences, students
have a say in room allocation and building security. Under el-Aissami's rule
political control over the residences fell into the hands of extremists with
criminal ties, according to students and university officials.

The current director of Student Affairs, professor Oswando Alcala, accused
students under el-Aissami's leadership of turning the residences into a base for
criminal activity.

"They use the residences to hide stolen cars. There's drug trafficking,
prostitution," he said. "There are always weapons there. . . . They leave the
residences, put on ski masks and do hold-ups in the street."

He added that the students appeared to have political backing. "All this is done
with the full knowledge of the university and (Merida) state authorities," he
said.

University directors had tried to intervene, but local judicial and law
enforcement authorities declined to act, he said.

When Alcala voiced objections in May, students in ski masks surrounded his
office armed with gasoline and tires, threatening to burn it down. A former
guerrilla himself, Alcala scared them off, saying he wasn't afraid of a violent
confrontation.

El-Aissami was soundly defeated when he sought re-election in July, with
opponents winning more than 70 percent of the vote. After the election, the new
student council found the union offices ransacked, with phones, fax machines,
computers and files all missing.

The windows of the student union offices are still full of holes made by rocks
and bullets during election campaign violence.

Cabezas and el-Aissami belonged to a radical group called Utopia, of which
Cabezas was a founding member. It is suspected of links with a clandestine armed
paramilitary group, the Bolivarian Liberation Forces, or FBL, which professes
allegiance to Chavez.

No links between the FBL and Middle Eastern groups have been established,
although some FBL communiques call for "popular war" against "imperialism and
Zionism."

El-Aissami is of Syrian origin, although born in Venezuela. His father, Carlos
el-Aissami, heads the Venezuelan branch of the Iraqi Baath Party, while his
great-uncle, Shibli el-Aissami was a leading ideologue and assistant
secretary-general of the Baath Party in Baghdad, under Saddam Hussein.

Tareck el-Aissami declined to be interviewed for this article, saying he was not
authorized to speak publicly. He promised to arrange an interview with Cabezas,
the DIEX director. However, subsequent phone calls, both to el-Aissami and to
the information ministry, failed to elicit an official response.

Carlos el-Aissami, father of Tareck, did agree to an interview, in which he
defended his son as an outstanding student and denied the presence of Arab
terrorist groups such as al-Qaida in Venezuela.

Both men attended a joint press conference with the Iraqi ambassador in Caracas
March 27, to express their opposition to the U.S. invasion of Iraq and their
"solidarity" with "the defenseless Iraqi people."

Regarding the links between the Baath Party and President Chavez's political
movement, he said the two were "united by the common cause of nationalism and
the anti-imperialist struggle."

He produced an article he had written, entitled "Proud to be a Taliban," in
which he refers to George W. Bush as, "genocidal, mentally deranged, a liar and
a racist," and to the leader of al-Qaida as "the great Mujahedeen, Sheik Osama
bin Laden."

He also questioned whether bin Laden was really responsible for the Sept. 11
attacks, asking, "Couldn't it be that they (the U.S. government) invented that
themselves so as to have an excuse (to invade Afghanistan)?"

Critics accuse Cabezas and el-Aissami of carrying out a government plan to
politicize the control over the country's institutions, to thwart opposition
efforts to remove Chavez.

"Chavez goes from phase to phase," said Alberto Garrido, a leading political
analyst. "He changes the heads of the DIEX because a tougher phase is coming. In
the crucial jobs only the toughest individuals are left."

- Phil Gunson is a Times freelance reporter based in Caracas. David Adams is the
Times' Latin America correspondent.

LOAD-DATE: November 28, 2003

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: PHOTO, Photo by PHIL GUNSON; PHOTO; Activists under the direction of
Tareck el-Aissami are said to have established armed guerilla compounds in these
student residences at the University of the Andes in Merida, Venezuela.; Carlos
el-Aissami

                    Copyright 2003 Times Publishing Company


                              215 of 302 DOCUMENTS

                         St. Petersburg Times (Florida)

                January 4, 2004 Sunday 0 South Pinellas Edition

Immigrant rules strand passengers

BYLINE: JIM FOX

SECTION: NATIONAL; Pg. 15A

LENGTH: 616 words


Dozens of people have been turned away from flights home to Canada as new rules
for landed immigrants are in effect.

The Citizenship and Immigration Department is working with consulates in the
United States and around the world to prepare proper travel documents for those
who didn't have the permanent resident card.

Landed immigrants need the card or a temporary travel visa, a security measure
adopted after terrorist attacks in the United States.

An estimated 1.5-million people living in Canada are eligible for the permanent
resident card and 850,000 cards have been issued.

Meanwhile, a group of permanent residents in Canada has sued the federal
Immigration Department, claiming the new requirement has caused them irreparable
harm and separated them from their families over Christmas.

About 46 Vancouver-area residents, who maintain a permanent residence in Canada
but frequently travel to Asia, are seeking $50,000 each in damages claiming
systematic discrimination based on their nationalities.

Wait to link plant to mad cow disease, officials say

No links should be made between an Edmonton rendering plant and two cases of mad
cow disease until investigators have concluded their work, government officials
and company representatives say.

West Coast Reduction owns the plant that has been singled out in published
reports as the possible source of both cases of bovine spongiform encephalopathy
in Canada and the United States.

Canadian Food Inspection Agency investigator Cornelius Kiley said officials are
awaiting results of DNA testing on the diseased cow found last month in
Washington to determine if it came from Alberta. A previous case surfaced in May
in northern Alberta.

More than 30 countries have banned U.S. beef products, and the United States
continues to restrict beef imports from Canada.

News in brief

+ There's some tax relief this year for Canadians through inflation adjustments.
With personal tax reductions continuing, tax brackets will rise to $35,000,
taxed at 22 percent; $70,000 at 26 percent; and $113,804 and more at 29 percent.
Child benefit payments and the credit for goods and services taxes will rise by
3.3 percent to keep pace with the cost of living and the general corporate tax
rate was reduced to 21 percent from 23 percent.

+ Canadians have donated about $1-million along with a contribution of
$1.3-million in cash and goods by the Canadian International Development Agency
to aid victims of the deadly earthquake in Iran. About 20 tons of Canadian
government-donated supplies, including blankets, tents, plastic sheeting,
generators, body bags and water-purification systems were sent by military
aircraft.

+ The Ontario government promises to fight toll increases on the Toronto-area
bypass route, the privately owned Highway 407. The new Liberal government said
it would roll back tolls set by 407 International Inc. The average drive of 12
miles along the highway during peak hours will increase to $2.65 from $2.46
while there are added fees for vehicles without electronic transponders and a
monthly account fee.

Facts and figures

Canada's dollar is at its highest level in 10 years, closing on Friday at 77.62
U.S. cents. The U.S. greenback returns $1.2883 Canadian before bank exchange
fees.

The Bank of Canada's key interest rate is unchanged at 2.75 percent and the
prime-lending rate is 4.5 percent.

On Canadian stock markets, Toronto's composite index was higher at 8,293 while
the Canadian Venture Exchange was up to 1,765 points on Friday.

Lotto 6-49: (Wednesday) 13, 14, 17, 20, 39 and 40; bonus 23. (Dec. 27) 5, 9, 17,
31, 37 and 44; bonus 3.

LOAD-DATE: January 4, 2004

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

SERIES: CANADA REPORT

                    Copyright 2004 Times Publishing Company


                              216 of 302 DOCUMENTS

                         St. Petersburg Times (Florida)

                January 4, 2004 Sunday 0 South Pinellas Edition

System to track foreign visitors

BYLINE: MAUREEN BYRNE AHERN

SECTION: CITY & STATE; Pg. 3B

LENGTH: 494 words

DATELINE: TAMPA


When foreign visitors carrying visas arrive at Tampa International Airport on
Tuesday, they'll be asked to smile for the camera.

But it won't be family or friends taking their pictures.

Beginning Monday, the Department of Homeland Security will begin operating the
first phase of a new immigration program called US-VISIT, or U.S. Visitor and
Immigrant Status Indicator Technology. Federal officials say the tracking system
will tighten security at the country's ports of entry.

The entry program, which requires foreign travelers carrying visas to be
photographed and fingerprinted as they come through customs, will be operational
in 115 airports and 14 major seaports across the nation. Exit procedures will be
phased in later this year. Land border processing will be introduced in 2005 and
2006.

TIA does not have any international flights arriving Monday, so the program will
start Tuesday at Terminal F, which processes all international flights. The new
system won't have much impact on the airport, TIA spokeswoman Brenda Geoghagan
said.

"At this time, our international traffic is not that big," Geoghagan said.
"We're not like Orlando or Miami. It's really not going to interfere with our
process."

This month, the Tampa airport will service 35 international flights each week,
compared with 1,750 domestic flights weekly. And 16 of those international
flights will come from Canada and England, where travelers don't need visas to
enter the United States.

According to the Department of Homeland Security's Web site, the program uses
scanning equipment to collect "biometric identifiers," such as inkless
fingerprints, and digital photographs of people.

Along with the standard information gathered from a visitor about identity and
travel plans, US-VISIT will confirm the visitor's identity and determine whether
the visitor complied with visa and immigration policies.

The two additional security measures add only seconds to the entry and exit
process, federal officials said.

"All of these entry and exit procedures address our critical need for tighter
security and our commitment to expedite travel for the millions of legitimate
visitors we welcome each year to conduct business, learn, see family or tour the
country," Asa Hutchinson, undersecretary of border and transportation security
for the Department of Homeland Security, said during a recent news conference
introducing the technology.

Obtained information will be stored as part of the visitor's travel record and
will be available only to authorized officials and select law enforcement
agencies.

When US-VISIT's exit program is ready, visitors will check out at kiosks by
scanning their visas or passports and repeating the inkless fingerprinting
process. The exit confirmation also will be added to the visitor's travel
record.

Last year, the federal government allocated $350-million for US-VISIT. This
year, $330-million is budgeted for the program.

LOAD-DATE: January 4, 2004

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DISTRIBUTION: CITY & STATE; METRO & STATE; TAMPA & STATE

                    Copyright 2004 Times Publishing Company


                              217 of 302 DOCUMENTS

                         St. Petersburg Times (Florida)

                             January 9, 2004 Friday

Brown-Waite criticizes Bush plan

BYLINE: JEFFREY S. SOLOCHEK

SECTION: HERNANDO TIMES; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 493 words


(ran PC edition of Pasco Times)

President Bush should not count on U.S. Rep. Ginny Brown-Waite when pushing his
latest plan to reform U.S. immigration laws.

Brown-Waite, a Brooksville Republican who generally has backed the president,
said Bush should be doing more to strengthen the rules already on the books that
allow people to immigrate legally to the United States.

His recommendation, to grant three-year work permits to illegal immigrants
already here and to future applicants, moves in the opposite direction, she
said.

"I am not happy with the briefing I've gotten, and believe me, I am not alone,"
Brown-Waite said Thursday in an interview.

She challenged Bush's contention that his idea would not give amnesty to the
hundreds of thousands of people in the country illegally.

"It's amnesty-lite," said Brown-Waite, whose district includes part or all of
Hernando, Citrus and Pasco counties. "We need to call it what it is. . . . I
believe that we need to have an orderly system that works and that doesn't
reward illegal behavior."

That goal is particularly important as the country works to protect itself from
terrorism, she said.

"We must be more careful than ever in screening and monitoring the individuals
we allow into this country," Brown-Waite said in a separate news release. "While
I believe that beginning a program like the one the President advocated  will
help identify and document a number of individuals within our borders, I
question whether it is strong enough to promote the kind of vigilance and
attention we need in this arena."

She also noted during the interview that Bush's plan most likely would stretch
the nation's resources, as more people would use the public health care and
education systems without paying into them.

"When Congress addresses this issue, I'd like to see reforms enacted that
address those national security concerns and address the additional strain
brought on this country's education, medical and highway systems by an influx of
illegal aliens and their families," she said in her prepared statement. "Our
health care dollars and Social Security benefits should be reserved for those
workers in this country who are legally entitled to them."

Brown-Waite predicted that party leaders in the House and Senate would try to
craft immigration legislation that might accomplish the president's goal out of
deference more than anything else. But in the end, she said, Congress will not
pass any bills that do what the president wants.

She pledged not to support any bill that would change the current system, in
which legal immigration remains the "sole path" to citizenship.

"I would prefer to spend more money on border guards to keep illegal immigrants
out," Brown-Waite said, than to create an expensive new bureaucracy that this
idea would generate. "I just think this is the wrong approach."

- Jeffrey S. Solochek can be reached at (352) 754-6115 or solochek@sptimes.com.

LOAD-DATE: January 9, 2004

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DISTRIBUTION: HERNANDO TIMES; PASCO TIMES

GRAPHIC: PHOTO; Ginny Brown-Waite

                    Copyright 2004 Times Publishing Company


                              218 of 302 DOCUMENTS

                         St. Petersburg Times (Florida)

                            January 12, 2004 Monday

Politician criticizes Bush's alien plan

BYLINE: JEFFREY S. SOLOCHEK

SECTION: CITRUS TIMES; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 488 words


President Bush should not count on U.S. Rep. Ginny Brown-Waite when pushing his
latest plan to reform U.S. immigration laws.

Brown-Waite, a Brooksville Republican who generally has backed the president,
said Bush should be doing more to strengthen the rules already on the books that
allow people to immigrate legally to the United States.

His recommendation, to grant three-year work permits to illegal immigrants
already here and to future applicants, moves in the opposite direction, she
said.

"I am not happy with the briefing I've gotten, and, believe me, I am not alone,"
Brown-Waite said Thursday in an interview.

She challenged Bush's contention that his idea would not give amnesty to the
hundreds of thousands of people in the country illegally.

"It's amnesty-lite," said Brown-Waite, whose district includes part or all of
Hernando, Citrus and Pasco counties.

"We need to call it what it is. . . . I believe that we need to have an orderly
system that works and that doesn't reward illegal behavior."

That goal is particularly important as the country works to protect itself from
terrorism, she said.

"We must be more careful than ever in screening and monitoring the individuals
we allow into this country," Brown-Waite said in a separate news release.

"While I believe that beginning a program like the one the president advocated
will help identify and document a number of individuals within our borders, I
question whether it is strong enough to promote the kind of vigilance and
attention we need in this arena."

She also noted during the interview that Bush's plan most likely would stretch
the nation's resources, as more people would use the public health care and
education systems without paying into them.

"When Congress addresses this issue, I'd like to see reforms enacted that
address those national security concerns and address the additional strain
brought on this country's education, medical and highway systems by an influx of
illegal aliens and their families," she said in her prepared statement.

"Our health care dollars and Social Security benefits should be reserved for
those workers in this country who are legally entitled to them."

Brown-Waite predicted that party leaders in the House and Senate would try to
craft immigration legislation that might accomplish the president's goal out of
deference more than anything else. But in the end, she said, Congress will not
pass any bills that do what the president wants.

She pledged not to support any bill that would change the current system, in
which legal immigration remains the "sole path" to citizenship.

"I would prefer to spend more money on border guards to keep illegal immigrants
out," Brown-Waite said, than to create an expensive new bureaucracy that this
idea would generate. "I just think this is the wrong approach."

- Jeffrey S. Solochek can be reached at (352) 754-6115 or solochek@sptimes.com.

LOAD-DATE: January 12, 2004

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                    Copyright 2004 Times Publishing Company


                              219 of 302 DOCUMENTS

                         St. Petersburg Times (Florida)

               February 3, 2004 Tuesday 0 South Pinellas Edition

Give me your befuddled masses

BYLINE: SUSAN ASCHOFF

SECTION: FLORIDIAN; Pg. 1E

LENGTH: 466 words


The civics test that immigrants must pass to become American citizens is due for
an overhaul, President Bush has announced. Last revised in the mid 1980s, the
test covers everything from the names of past presidents to the number of stars
on the flag.

The trouble, critics say, is that examiners pick 10 questions from a list of
100, so different applicants can get widely different tests. The questions also
fail to convey any sense of what it means to be a citizen, they say.

Bush made reference to the test in his recent proposal to create a guest-worker
program that would open the borders to immigrants seeking low-wage jobs. The
workers would be able to apply to become permanent residents, a step toward
citizenship.

Changes in the civics test will likely take up to two years to implement, with
community forums planned to gather input.

So what questions do the more than 500,000 people who annually become citizens
have to answer now? And would someone born here get them right? To see all 100,
go to  http://uscis.gov/graphics/ services/natz/require.htm.

Here is a sampling.

- SUSAN ASCHOFF, Times staff writer

1) What are the colors of our flag?

2) Name some countries that were our enemies during World War II.

3) What were the original 13 states?

4) Who wrote the Star-Spangled Banner?

5) What is the most important right granted to U.S. citizens?

6) How many changes or amendments are there to the Constitution?

7) How many representatives are there in Congress?

8) What is the supreme law of the United States?

9) How many stripes are there in the flag?

10) Who helped the Pilgrims in America?

11) What is the date of Independence Day?

12) Whose rights are guaranteed by the Constitution and the Bill of Rights?

13) Who is the chief justice of the Supreme Court?

14) What special group advises the president?

15) Name one benefit of being a citizen of the United States.

ANSWERS: 1) Red, white and blue; 2) Germany, Japan and Italy; 3) Connecticut,
Delaware, Georgia, Maryland, Massachusetts, New Hampshire, New Jersey, New York,
North Carolina, Pennsylvania, Rhode Island, South Carolina and Virginia; 4)
Francis Scott Key; 5) The right to vote; 6) 27; 7) 435; 8) The Constitution; 9)
13; 10) American Indians; 11) July 4; 12) Everyone (citizens and noncitizens
living in the United States); 13) William Rehnquist (his correct title is chief
justice of the United States); 14) The Cabinet; 15) Vote for the candidate of
your choice, travel with a U.S. passport, serve on a jury, apply for federal
employment opportunities and others.

Source: U.S. Citizenship and Immigration Services

LOAD-DATE: February 3, 2004

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

SERIES: WORD FOR WORD

GRAPHIC: DRAWING; The Statue of Liberty ponders a thought while writing on a
piece of paper.

                    Copyright 2004 Times Publishing Company


                              220 of 302 DOCUMENTS

                         St. Petersburg Times (Florida)

                           February 14, 2004 Saturday

Couple snip red tape for love

BYLINE: APRIL SIMPSON

SECTION: CITRUS TIMES; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 816 words

DATELINE: BEVERLY HILLS


Sometimes, Matt and Kathy Baird forget that they aren't just enjoying another
brief visit.

The Bairds don't have to say their goodbyes at the airport, only to plan when
they can schedule another 10-hour flight to meet again.

On this Valentine's Day, they are together for good.

The couple met in an online game room, the WordOx Frontside Portal Web site,
which matches opponents worldwide.

Kathy lived in London.

Matt lived in Beverly Hills.

After corresponding by e-mail, phone and letters - and after making a few trips
to see one another in London and in Citrus - they wed on Christmas Eve 2002 in
Matt's Beverly Hills home.

But they couldn't be together all the time. The newlyweds spent months dealing
with immigration officials with hopes of bringing Kathy and her three children
from London to Citrus permanently.

Their wait ended the day after Thanksgiving 2003.

"It's still hard to imagine they're not going back," Matt said of his new
family.

Rhys Senech, Kathy's 8-year-old son, agreed. Sometimes he forgets this isn't
just another Florida vacation.

Rhys and his siblings, Lauren, 16, and Laura, 15, are here to stay.

In June, the Bairds were frequent fliers and victims of an immigration logjam.

"Every time we call INS (the federal Immigration and Naturalization Service) we
get a different person, and every time we ask questions we get different
answers," Matt Baird told the Citrus Times that month, when the newspaper first
told about his struggle.

In early March, the Bairds had filed for a K3 visa, which is used to bring the
spouse of a U.S. citizen into the country by obtaining U.S. immigrant/visa
status.

Matt Baird said he spoke with immigration officials and was told to send the
visa paperwork to a Bureau of Citizenship and Immigration Services (formerly
Immigration and Naturalization Service, or INS) service center in Texas.

Matt said he received confirmation of receipt one week after filing, but when he
checked the document's status online, it never changed from a waiting period of
180 days.

The Bairds waited two months before they called Texas and learned they had been
misinformed. They had sent their paperwork to the wrong office. It should have
been sent to a Chicago office.

With the mixup, the Bairds had two options. They could send the paperwork to the
appropriate Chicago office, but that would delay the process by three months.
First, Matt had to fill out additional paperwork in Tampa.

Or, they could keep Kathy's paperwork in Texas, where it would be treated with
K3 status. That would extend their time apart by 900 days.

The Bairds decided to call U.S. Sen. Bob Graham's office. They were told the
form would be sent from Texas to Chicago and, once the form arrived in Chicago,
the process shouldn't take more than eight weeks to finish.

They kept in touch via e-mail and "lots and lots of phone calls," Kathy Baird
said.

"Every single day, even with the five-hour difference," she continued.

"She wouldn't let us have a turn (at the computer)," Rhys joked.

Eight weeks came and went. But in November, it was finally over.

"Bob Graham's office has been really good," said Kathy Baird, whose soft-spoken
speech bears a light British accent. "If it wasn't for them, I'd probably still
be in England right now."

"I'm just glad it's all over with," her husband said.

On a recent afternoon, the couple sat with Rhys at a small four-cornered table.
The couple gazed into each other's eyes as they reminisced about the experiences
that kept them apart for so long.

Since Kathy Baird and her children have arrived in  Citrus, Rhys said, he "saw
how much (Matt and Kathy) love each other."

"And we love you, too," his mother replied.

"Things are really good;  aren't they?" Matt Baird asked his wife as the two
held hands.

Things may be good, but the couple still have  a few setbacks to contend with.

Kathy Baird was told she couldn't apply for a work permit until she moved to the
United States. She applied a week after she arrived and, about one month later,
received a receipt of action.

In the meantime, she couldn't make an appointment any earlier than 45 days after
she applied for the work permit to take a mandatory picture in Tampa.

Kathy Baird is getting bored staying at home. She hopes to get a job working in
a local elementary school but said she was told by the School Board her
application wouldn't be considered until she had a work permit, which she hopes
to obtain in early March.

Now that the Bairds are together, they said they don't bother with the computer
much anymore. Kathy occasionally chats with family and friends back home and
Matt will sometimes check his e-mail.

After the short visits to the United States, Kathy had mixed emotions on
arriving for her final visit.

"It wasn't real," she said. "We were happy; we cried. After a 10-hour plane
ride, we were finally here."

LOAD-DATE: February 14, 2004

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: PHOTO, STEPHEN J. CODDINGON; Matt Baird of Beverly Hills and his wife,
Kathy, originally of London, are together at last in their Beverly Hills home.

                    Copyright 2004 Times Publishing Company


                              221 of 302 DOCUMENTS

                         St. Petersburg Times (Florida)

                           February 14, 2004 Saturday

Bridges to the American dream

BYLINE: EILEEN SCHULTE

SECTION: CLEARWATER TIMES; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 805 words

DATELINE: CLEARWATER


She is a retired mortgage banker who has built roofs on houses for Habitat for
Humanity.

She has driven cancer patients weakened by chemotherapy to doctor's
appointments. She helps her daughter care for six foster children.

Now Barbara Elmquist is learning to teach English to immigrants who have heard
horror stories about Americans who hate foreigners, so they try not to speak in
public. To people who are terrified of being deported even if they are in the
United States legally. To newcomers who are afraid of bus drivers because in
their native countries, people who wear uniforms are there to kill you.

Elmquist and about a dozen other volunteers attended a United Methodist
Cooperative Ministries workshop on teaching English to Speakers of Other
Languages Tuesday at Trinity Presbyterian Church to learn to help people "living
in the shadows," said their instructor, Marti Lane.

United Methodist Cooperative Ministries sought volunteers to teach English to
refugees and immigrants. The tutors are asked to pay $35 to join the program.
Those who complete all four sessions will receive a certificate from ProLiteracy
America, a national organization that promotes literacy.

Elmquist thought she would be a good candidate. She speaks Spanish almost
fluently, thanks to a year living in Mexico in the 1970s, and she has a degree
in social work.

She brought along her daughter, Julie Hoffman, 27, who also has a degree in
social work. It wasn't easy for Hoffman to attend the program; she has has
foster children and a husband at home. But she made the time.

"We both like to volunteer," Elmquist said. "I like to do faith-based
volunteering."

Lane, the director of Literacy Services for United Methodist Cooperative
Ministries and a workshop trainer, said UMCM is an outreach ministry of the St.
Petersburg District of the United Methodist Church, which provides social
services in Pinellas and west Pasco counties.

She said several months ago, Trinity Presbyterian and Hope Presbyterian churches
started ESOL tutoring programs. Skycrest United Methodist and New Growth CDC, a
faith-based program at Jasmine Courts, a public housing complex on Tanglewood
Drive, have been holding sessions for more than a year.

"At any given time we (deal with) 20 different languages: Vietnamese, Spanish,
Cambodian, Afghan, Russian, Egyptian, Polish, Chinese and French," Lane said.

She said new arrivals range from professionals with advanced degrees from
universities in their native countries to those with no formal education at all.

Sharon Moore, 47, of Clearwater is a member of Lane's class. To prepare herself
for her new mission, she has been observing and helping during tutoring sessions
at Jasmine for two weeks.

"All except one (student) I've worked with are college-educated," she said.
"It's a funny feeling to be teaching them. I feel a high level of respect that
they want to know the language. One middle age Vietnamese woman was trying to
communicate with me. She was saying "Red, white and blue.' I couldn't figure out
what she was trying to say. She was trying to say she wants to take a test. I
said, "Do you want to be a U.S. citizen?' She jumped up and hugged me. She said,
"You make me so happy!' "

Moore, who works as an administrative assistant, does not speak Arabic or any of
the other languages she has encountered. Most volunteers speak only English and
"in some ways, it's better that way," said Lane.

"It forces (the students) to speak English," she said.

Students are tutored once a week for one to two years. The course helps prepare
them for adult education classes they may want to take in the future.

"Some Laotian women come from working the late shift at Halkey-Roberts in St.
Petersburg, making plastic components used in medical devices," Lane said. "They
are trying so hard."

Some students, especially those of Arabic descent, have felt discrimination from
their tutors, however.

"It took four different tries to match a tutor with one man," said Lane. "A
tutor would come, and not come back. They would say, "I'd rather not.' They
didn't expand."

But for the most part, tutors genuinely want to help. Some end up bonding with
their students. Sometimes, they become friends.

"It takes a lot of courage to move over here," said Moore.

- Eileen Schulte can be reached at (727) 445-4153 or schulte@sptimes.com.

Emily Padlow, left, of Pinellas Park, goes over English grammar and vocabulary
with Andrea Lopez during a tutoring session Thursday at Skycrest United
Methodist Church in Clearwater. The session was part of the United Methodist
Cooperative Ministries English for Speakers of Other Languages program.

For information

If you would like to learn English or become a tutor, call United Methodist
Cooperative Ministries at (727) 442-6881.

LOAD-DATE: February 14, 2004

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DISTRIBUTION: CLEARWATER TIMES; LARGO TIMES; NORTH PINELLAS TIMES

SERIES: RELIGION

GRAPHIC: PHOTO, Photo by BRIAN TIETZ; Emily Padlow, of Pinellas Park, goes over
English grammar and vocabulary with Andrea Lopez during a tutoring session
Thursday at Skycrest United Methodist Church in Clearwater.

                    Copyright 2004 Times Publishing Company


                              222 of 302 DOCUMENTS

                         St. Petersburg Times (Florida)

                            March 10, 2004 Wednesday

Two face deportation after serving time

BYLINE: KELLY VIRELLA

SECTION: HERNANDO TIMES; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 404 words

DATELINE: BROOKSVILLE


Two men accused in the fatal drive-by shooting of a Mexican immigrant following
a clash over a $300 personal debt last April have pleaded guilty to lesser
charges.

Delfino Duran-Casas, 30, and Reymundo Reyes-Alfaro, 33, were being held on
second-degree murder charges in connection with the death of 23-year-old Juan
Carlos Herrera-Mora on April 19, 2003.

Last week, Duran-Casas pleaded guilty to manslaughter and was sentenced to 10
years in prison. He received credit for the 321 days he spent in Hernando County
Jail.

Reyes-Alfaro pleaded guilty last week to accessory after the fact of
manslaughter and was sentenced to 11 months and 29 days in Hernando County Jail.
He had already served 10 months and 12 days of that sentence awaiting bail when
he entered his plea.

Both men might be illegal immigrants and could  face deportation after finishing
their sentences. If they had posted bail, the U.S. Border Patrol could have
taken them into custody for deportation hearings sooner, according to Steve
McDonald, patrol agent in charge of the U.S. Border Patrol Tampa office.

The two pleas resolved the last cases in the drive-by shooting and came after a
jury acquitted a third man who was accused of being involved in the fracas that
led to it. Miguel Reyes-Alfaro, 34, was acquitted in November of charges he
stabbed EusebioGallegos-Olivo, 28.

Duran-Casas shot Herrera-Mora once in the head while driving a green 1998 Dodge
truck past the Ganz Drive mobile home where the victim lived.

The shooting happened about 30 minutes after an argument erupted at Duran-Casas'
residence, a mobile home in Tall Oaks Adult Village Park, sheriff's reports
said.

The argument started when Gallegos-Olivo and six other men came to Duran-Casas'
home to collect a $300 debt from one of the residents. It ended when
Gallegos-Olivo was stabbed on the left side of the neck, from the ear to the
shoulder, and twice on the side.

Bleeding from his wounds, Gallegos-Olivo went to the house where Herrera-Mora
lived and obtained a ride to Oak Hill Hospital from relatives. As Gallegos-Olivo
was being treated for his stab wounds, the shooting occurred.

When he was fatally shot, Herrera-Mora was sitting on the porch and was not
involved in the dispute, said Assistant State Attorney Marlene Wells, who
handled the case.

- Kelly Virella can be reached at (352) 848-1434. Send e-mail to
kvirella@sptimes.com.

LOAD-DATE: March 10, 2004

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                    Copyright 2004 Times Publishing Company


                              223 of 302 DOCUMENTS

                         St. Petersburg Times (Florida)

                April 1, 2004 Thursday 0 South Pinellas Edition

Track down ancestors from shore to ship

BYLINE: DONNA MURRAY ALLEN

SECTION: FLORIDIAN; Pg. 2E

LENGTH: 881 words


It's easier to count the number of fireflies flitting through a back yard on a
warm summer night than to find your original immigrant on a passenger ship list
- and sometimes just about as rewarding.

Aside from Ellis Island, a one-stop shopping venue for lucky rooters whose
ancestors arrived there between 1892 and 1924, no central repository exists for
passenger ship records. (See  http://www.ellisisland.org.)

Even if you do locate an Adam Schneider on a ship manifest after trolling
through hundreds of them, you'll need additional evidence to prove that the man
you found is your Adam Schneider.

One of the primary reasons for determining which ship your ancestor came in on
is to ascertain his or her country of origin and the location of the ancestral
home for the masochistic thrill of trying to elicit records from a foreign
country.

But finding your kin on a ship's list may be a hollow victory. Immigrants may be
referred to only as British citizens because they hailed from a country
belonging to the United Kingdom like Ireland, Scotland and Wales. Likewise, the
port where the immigrant boarded the ship may bear no relationship to where he
or she lived. A port may have been chosen simply for convenience. Liverpool was
a favorite. Overall, the chances of ship records pinpointing your immigrant's
country of origin or the precise location of his or her ancestral home are slim.

Despite the tediousness of the task, most people wish to pursue this avenue of
research. If you're one of them, learn what records are actually available
before launching an all-out search. Start with the National Archives and Records
Administration Web site at  http://www.

archives.gov/research_room/genealogy to see what is available. (More records are
routinely being added.) If you discover a potential candidate, use Form 81 to
order a copy of the passenger's arrival records. The cost is $17.25. Obtain
forms by e-mailing inquire@nara.gov. You'll pay $17.25 per file.

You should also check to see what records are available online. Many sites have
free, online searchable databases, such as  http://www.immigrantships.net and
http://www.maxpages.com/ poland/passenger_lists. Other online sources include
http://www.cyndislist.com and  http://olivetreegenealogy.com. For more options,
put "passenger ship lists" in your search box. Public libraries, historical
societies, museums and Mormon Family History Centers also keep compiled lists.

Before 1820, ship captains filed reports with local authorities on passengers
who had embarked in a foreign port and disembarked at a U.S. port.

The Steerage Act of 1819 required ship captains to keep a list of immigrants who
landed in the United States. A record of each immigrant's arrival has been kept
since Sept. 30, 1820.

On Aug. 3, 1882, Congress passed the first federal law regulating immigration,
which compelled captains to keep separate lists for immigrants. Standardized
forms that included each immigrant's marital status, last place of residence,
destination city and names of relatives they planned to meet in this country
made their debut about a decade later. Additional data, such as an immigrant's
physical description, were added in 1906 and 1907.

Beginning in 1920, captains were mandated to report arrival information to U.S.
Customs officers at the port of entry.

Unfortunately, no law specified who got custody of these lists and these days
they could be anywhere, including a landfill.

If you know at which port your ancestor arrived, contact the local historical
society to see if someone there knows where the records are for that particular
port. The state's archives are another good resource.

Immigrants who crossed the border from Canada to America during the mid to late
19th century usually did not have their arrival recorded.

Many immigrants chose this entry route because it was faster and less of a
hassle. The shortcut ended in 1894 when the U.S. Immigration Bureau reached an
agreement with Canadian authorities to treat all immigrants as though they were
landing at a U.S. port.

Read past Donna Murray Allen columns online at  http://www.sptimes.com. Type
"Donna Murray Allen" in the search box. You can write to Allen c/o Floridian,
St. Petersburg Times, P.O. Box 1121, St. Petersburg, FL 33731, or e-mail her at
rootscolumn@yahoo.com. Her Web site,  http://www.rootsdetective.com, includes
information on classes and lectures. Allen welcomes your questions and will
respond to those of general interest in future columns.

LOAD-DATE: April 1, 2004

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

SERIES: GENEALOGY

TYPE: COLUMN

                    Copyright 2004 Times Publishing Company


                              224 of 302 DOCUMENTS

                         St. Petersburg Times (Florida)

                April 15, 2004 Thursday 0 South Pinellas Edition

The red-letter year for U.S. rooters

BYLINE: DONNA MURRAY ALLEN

SECTION: FLORIDIAN; Pg. 2E

LENGTH: 723 words


Second of two parts.

Did an ancestor of yours become a citizen after 1906? If so, you're in luck.
That's the year the United States establish an immigration and naturalization
bureau and the citizenship process was standardized.

Now called U.S. Citizenship and Immigration Services, this federal agency keeps
copies of all citizenship records from 1906 to now. This includes the records of
those who gained citizenship through their father's naturalization or because
they were born abroad to American parents.

Records of soldiers who took the fast track to naturalization while serving
overseas during World War II are on file, too. (See uscis.gov).

These records can be wonderfully replete with data. Take the file of Anna
Karnock, for example. Her height, weight and photo appear on her citizenship
Declaration of Intention. So do the names of her late husband and her children.
The file shows she was born in Czechoslovakia, previously lived in Poland and
emigrated from Italy. She gave her race as Russian and her nationality as
Polish. (Okay, so you can't have everything).

The year was 1940.

Tracking down the citizenship papers of ancestors who were naturalized before
1906 is a headache. The records could be anywhere. They might not exist. And
even when found, they may not turn out to have been worth the effort.

James Murray is a prime example. He filed a Declaration of Intention for
citizenship in the District Court of Houghton County, Mich., in 1866. He signed
an Oath of Allegiance and filed a Petition for Naturalization in the Court of
Common Pleas in Fayette County, Pa., in 1872, even though he lived in Michigan.

Who knows why.

Also, Murray's file states that he was born in Ireland and arrived in the United
States in 1863. There is no mention of where in Ireland he was born and what
ship brought him here.

I found Murray's file at the Fayette County Courthouse. That courthouse, like
many in Pennsylvania, has a random selection of citizenship files from before
and after 1906. The files are even indexed.

In the end, James Murray turned out not to be an ancestor of mine. On the other
hand, I have my great-grandfather's Citizenship Certificate, which includes the
file number, but staff at the Westmoreland County Courthouse in Pennsylvania
couldn't find the paperwork.

Still, a courthouse is your best bet. Once you've exhausted its resources, head
for the local library. I lucked out in Burlington, N.J. A roll of microfilm at
the main public library contained the citizenship records of John Shelley. He
was my kin.

Check with the local historical society next to see if it has records. Then
check the state's archives. Most have a Web site showing available records.

The National Archives and Records Administration in Washington, D.C., has
citizenship records for selected counties in California, Washington, Illinois,
Indiana, Iowa and Wisconsin. It also has records for Massachusetts, New
Hampshire, Rhode Island and Maine for 1798-1906 and the District of Columbia for
1802 to 1926.

The administration also would have papers filed in federal court before 1906,
either in Washington or at a regional facility. (The administration also keeps
immigration files pertaining to border crossings relating to Mexico and Canada).

Go to  http://www.archives.gov for a complete list.

To obtain papers filed between 1906 and 1956 from U.S. Citizenship and
Immigration Services, write to: USCIS, I&N Historian, 425 I St. NW, Room 1100,
Washington, DC 20536, or call (202) 514-1722.

For records after 1956, write to the appropriate district office.

Read past Donna Murray Allen columns online at  http://www.sptimes.com. Type
"Donna Murray Allen" in the search box. You can write to Allen c/o Floridian,
St. Petersburg Times, P.O. Box 1121, St. Petersburg, FL 33731, or e-mail her at
rootscolumn@yahoo.com. Her Web site:  http://www.rootsdetective.com includes
information on classes and lectures. Allen welcomes your questions about
genealogy and will respond to those of general interest in future columns.

LOAD-DATE: April 15, 2004

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

SERIES: GENEALOGY

TYPE: COLUMN; SERIES

                    Copyright 2004 Times Publishing Company


                              225 of 302 DOCUMENTS

                         St. Petersburg Times (Florida)

               June 23, 2004 Wednesday 4 State / Suncoast Edition

Contreras' family gets out of Cuba

SOURCE: Compiled from Wire Reports

SECTION: SPORTS; Pg. 4C

LENGTH: 221 words

DATELINE: BALTIMORE


Jose Contreras' family defected from Cuba this week, and the Yankees pitcher
left the team Tuesday and traveled to Miami to reunite with his wife and two
daughters.

Immigration and Customs Enforcement spokesman Barbara Gonzalez said she did not
know details on how the family got out of Cuba. A call to U.S. Border Patrol
officials was not immediately returned.

"It's spectacular news," Yankees manager Joe Torre said.

Contreras' wife Miriam and daughters Naylan, 11, and Naylenis, 3,  were taken by
the border patrol to immigration offices, where they were interviewed and
released.

After being examined by Miami-Dade County medical officials, they left with
Contreras' agent, Jaime Torres, early Tuesday evening.

The family looked tired, and Torres said they were "in pretty good condition."

ANGELS: Right-hander John Lackey dropped his appeal of a five-game suspension he
received from the commissioner's office and began serving. Lackey was fined and
suspended for throwing consecutive brushback pitches at Toronto's Simon Pond on
May 24. He wasn't scheduled to pitch again until Sunday.

RANGERS: Right-hander Chan Ho Park began a rehabilitation assignment by pitching
three innings in a rookie league game. Park has been on the disabled list since
May 20 with a strained lower back.

- TIMES WIRES

LOAD-DATE: June 23, 2004

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

SERIES: NOTEBOOK

TYPE: DIGEST

                    Copyright 2004 Times Publishing Company


                              226 of 302 DOCUMENTS

                         St. Petersburg Times (Florida)

                 July 8, 2004 Thursday 0 South Pinellas Edition

Shortcut for citizenship papers

BYLINE: DONNA MURRAY ALLEN

SECTION: FLORIDIAN; Pg. 4E

LENGTH: 829 words


Zack Wilske, a historian with the History Office and Library of the United
States Citizenship and Immigration Services, was kind enough to e-mail me an
address update following a recent column on obtaining citizenship papers.
Apparently a lot of local rooters wrote to USCIS (formerly known as Immigration
and Naturalization Services) after that column appeared. (See Web site at
http://uscis.gov/graphics/index.htm).

Wilske suggested using this address for a faster response: Freedom of
Information Act/Privacy Act Program, 425 I St. NW, 2nd Floor, ULLICO Building,
Washington, DC 20536. Under the FOIA, you may request copies of citizenship
records filed after 1906, which is when the federal government took over the
responsibility. Wilske said that this address is subject to change once the
USCIS mailroom is capable of handling the volume of mail received by FOIA.

Citizenship papers were filed in any court before 1906. The records may be in
the county courthouse or the state's archives. They also may be lost.

Getting it online

You can't create your entire family tree in the comfort of your home, but you
can get some of the legwork done by logging on to various online searchable
databases. The Web site at

  http://www.progenealogists.com/

genealogysleuthb.htm provides a list of searchable databases ranging from St.
Louis, Mo., Catholic burials, Utah state burial records and African-American
cemeteries to online death records for more than a half-dozen states to
passenger ship lists and immigration records. Most of the databases are free,
but, as with too many sites these days, some ultimately lead to Ancestry.com.

Kentucky played an important role in the east-west migration patterns. Check out
the state's online searchable database of birth, death, marriage and divorce
records at  http://ukcc.uky.edu/vitalrec/. You can also download request forms
to order the records you need.

A few county governments finally have noticed that genealogy has become the
second most popular hobby in the world and are starting to capitalize on it. At
http://www.co.westmoreland.pa.us, you'll find a free searchable database of
marriage license applications dating back to 1900 that are on file at the
courthouse in Westmoreland County, Pa. It's not complete, but you may hit on the
one you need. The county also has started a fee-based subscription service for
other records.

Need to calculate a birth date using the person's age at death? If Harry Mills
died on April 15, 1902, (age 73y 2m 1d, for example) you can use the birth date
calculator at  http://www.progenealogists.com/

freegenealogy.htm to determine the day he was born. You'll also find a Soundex
calculator and a guide to help you correctly cite your sources.

Want a free copy of an ancestral chart form? Get them online at the
Tampa-Hillsborough Public Library (  http://www.thpl.org). Go to Information
Gateway, click on genealogy, scroll to the bottom and look under user guides.

There's also help at  http://www.raogk.com for those who need a quick lookup or
a copy of an obituary from a newspaper 1,000 miles away. This is a legitimate
service. Random Acts of Genealogical Kindness is comprised of more than 4,000
volunteers who have agreed to fulfill at least one act of kindness a month for
rooters. These favors primarily include pulling and copying public records,
locating obits on microfilm and printing a copy and taking digital photos of
tombstones. You do not have to pay them for their time, but you are expected to
reimburse them for copy and postage fees and other out-of-pocket expenses.

Read past Donna Murray Allen columns online at  http://www.sptimes.com. Type
"Donna Murray Allen" in the search box. You can write to Allen c/o Floridian,
St. Petersburg Times, P.O. Box 1121, St. Petersburg, FL 33731, or e-mail her at
rootscolumn@yahoo.com. Her Web site:  http://www.rootsdetective.com includes
information on classes and lectures. Allen welcomes your questions about
genealogy and will respond to those of general interest in future columns.

LOAD-DATE: July 8, 2004

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

SERIES: GENEALOGY

GRAPHIC: PHOTO, Twentieth Century Fox; Garfield, as he appears in Garfield, The
Movie

TYPE: COLUMN

                    Copyright 2004 Times Publishing Company


                              227 of 302 DOCUMENTS

                         St. Petersburg Times (Florida)

                 July 19, 2004 Monday 0 South Pinellas Edition

Immigration duty a burden, police say

BYLINE: SAUNDRA AMRHEIN

SECTION: CITY & STATE; Pg. 1B

LENGTH: 1646 words

DATELINE: TAMPA


Two children were dead, run over by a car that kept going.

Witnesses gave confusing testimony. But many saw a passing white van with
ladders on top.

The passengers could provide crucial evidence.

One problem: authorities suspected they were Hispanic workers, in the United
States illegally.

Even if you're in this country illegally, Hillsborough sheriff's Maj. Greg Brown
pleaded at a press conference, come forward and help us.

The scramble to find the white van highlights a growing challenge for local law
enforcement:

Penetrating immigrant communities - and their fear of police - to help solve
crimes.

But  since the terrorist attacks of Sept. 11, 2001, there's growing pressure for
local law enforcement to do the work of immigration officers.

A bill pending in Congress, called the CLEAR Act, would call upon local police
agencies to detain people with civil as well as criminal immigration violations.
Agencies that don't sign up would face cuts in federal funds.

Some local police, though, say the move would destroy all the bridges they've
built with minority communities while burdening them with an area of law
considered more complex than the tax code. Not only would immigrants stop
talking to them, they say, but it could lead to mistakes and a major backlog of
crime calls.

"It doesn't take very long for that open door of communication to be slammed
shut," said Clearwater police Chief Sid Klein. "Then we in local law enforcement
(pay the price)."

Trust from victims

Officers around Tampa Bay tell similar stories.

Shots are fired. Stabbings occur. But nobody knows anything.

That has often been the reaction in communities with heavy immigrant populations
working in the area's hotel or agriculture industry. Immigrants fear police,
expecting rampant corruption they find back home or the prospect of deportation
or detention.

"It's a constant battle," said Lt. Rod Reder, spokesman for the Hillsborough
Sheriff's Office, which has two deputies working full time to reach out to
immigrants and refugees.

"We obviously need them to trust us," he said. "Our main focus is on the crime
itself. We're not immigration experts."

In the growing number of cases in human trafficking - an issue that drew a visit
on Friday from President Bush - the examples are more hideous: women brought to
this country to work as sex slaves; workers brought for slave labor. Victims
rarely call police.

In response, U.S. attorneys offices have been seeking help from social service
agencies.  And long before these efforts, local law enforcement stepped up
community policing in immigrant communities.

Clearwater police responded as families moved there in droves from Hidalgo,
Mexico, in the 1990s. Chief Klein joined with the YWCA of Tampa Bay to open a
Hispanic Outreach Program center near the Police Department's headquarters in
downtown Clearwater.

The center's bilingual program provides Spanish-speaking interpreters with
police training who are on call at all times. Last year they turned to the
community and got leads after the killing of a Mexican woman and her 2-year-old
baby, though the crime remains unsolved.

But now police fear their efforts will be wasted if the CLEAR Act passes.

"(Immigrants) are not going to come to police and report anything," said Tampa
police Officer Brenda Canino-Fumero, the agency's Hispanic liaison.

Immigration agents

Those who support increased efforts to involve local law enforcement in
immigration say federal officials need all the help they can get. Terrorism
threats are up. Waves of immigrants pour into neighborhoods.

"It would automatically reduce crime and illegal immigration by allowing local
law enforcement to detain criminal and illegal aliens during the course of their
duties," said Christy Stefadouros, communications director with U.S. Rep. Mike
Bilirakis, R-Tarpon Springs. Bilirakis was one of 121 co-sponsors in the House
of Representatives supporting the CLEAR Act when it was filed last year.

The legislation would surpass what Florida already has in place.

Only one of two states to do so - Alabama is the other - Florida signed an
agreement with the federal government for immigration work.

For about a year, through the Florida Department of Law Enforcement, seven task
forces have been operating around the state, made up of a handful of local
officers and deputies. After weeks of training, they become sworn immigration
agents and work on domestic security and immigration enforcement.

The CLEAR Act goes further. It would give all local law enforcement the right to
detain people solely for immigration violations. States, cities and counties
that agree to do so could tap into $2.5-billion for training, database resources
and incarceration, according to legislative supporters.

But some police are worried that immigration laws are so complex the training
provided under the bill would not be thorough enough. It would consist largely
of a manual developed by the Attorney General or the Department of Homeland
Security. Training is not a prerequisite to enforce immigration laws under the
bill.

Those agencies that don't agree to enforce immigration laws - or fail to turn
over information to the federal government on all illegal immigrants they
apprehend - risk losing federal money they get now for incarcerating illegal
criminal immigrants.

For Florida, that meant $162-million between 1997 and 2003, according to the
American Immigration Lawyers Association.

But drastic action is needed, supporters say.

About 80,000 illegal immigrants nationwide are on the streets after serving time
for criminal offenses, instead of being deported, said Duke Hipp, press
secretary for U.S. Rep. Charlie Norwood, R-Ga., the bill's author.

The problem now, complains Hipp, is that state prisons and local jails release
criminal illegal immigrants after they serve their time. They often refuse to
hold them on immigration or visa violations until federal officials can pick
them up.

"It's a revolving door and it's not getting any better," Hipp said.

Division over issue

Involving local police won't solve that problem, says Clearwater Chief Klein.

When immigration authorities asked for his agency's assistance with "sweeps"
back in the 1990s, he complied, only to find out that the majority of the
illegal immigrants caught in the roundup were released again. They were never
deported.

Since then, he stopped taking part in the sweeps and started outreach efforts.

Immigration authorities should do more at the border or hire more officers to
prevent illegal immigration in the first place rather than tie up local police
on issues that aren't related to crime, he said.

"For the most part in our community, we're finding (immigrants) are not a law
enforcement problem," Klein said.

National sheriff's and police agencies have declared support and opposition.

The June newsletter of the Washington-based Police Executive Research Forum took
up the issue. PERF members fell on both sides, the newsletter declared.

Hillsborough Sheriff Cal Henderson said he might enforce the measure, depending
on the final form of the law, if it helped with national security.

But as a former U.S. Border Patrol officer, he appreciated the complexity of the
job, despite training. "Our people would have a hard time enforcing it," he
said.

Complex classifications

Immigration attorneys are cringing at the very idea.

They say immigration law is more complicated than tax law.

After years of experience, even they have difficulty sorting through the morass.

"It could be even a technical violation, but local cops won't have the ability
to know what they are and sometimes it would look like a violation when it's
not," said Judy Golub, senior director of advocacy for the American Immigration
Lawyers Association.

She predicted that legal residents risk getting ensnared in the confusion.

"There are so many different types of visa statuses and classifications," added
Marshall Fitz, associate director of advocacy for the association.

"There are so many intermediate steps to reaching one of those classifications,"
he said. "And the accuracy of the immigration data they do have is so
notoriously flawed, it would be 50-50 whether any information you're pulling off
is timely or if errors have been corrected."

All that immigration information would be poured into the National Crime
Information Center database, or NCIC - what police and deputies use now to track
suspected criminals.

Local law enforcement officers fear clogging that system with the addition of
thousands of names of immigration violators.

But Hipp from Rep. Norwood's office said something needs to be done. There are
simply too many illegal immigrants outnumbering federal officials.

"It's like a needle in the haystack," Hipp said.

However, too many of those "needles" end up being hardworking farm workers, not
terrorists, said Margarita Romo, director of Farmworkers Self-Help Inc. in Dade
City.

"I know we all want to be concerned about safety," Romo said. "But I think they
are taking some of this stuff too far."

As for the hit-and-run accident, Hillsborough officials charged schoolteacher
Jennifer Porter  with leaving the deadly wreck in her Toyota Echo based on
evidence and her admission. Her lawyer still wants to know what role was played
by the white van.

Its passengers, according to court documents, apparently never came forward.

- Saundra Amrhein can be reached at (813) 226-3383 or amrhein@sptimes.com.

Tampa police Officer Brenda Canino-Fumero jokes with members of a
Spanish-speaking household who want her to take a puppy. She says a proposed
federal law would hurt her agency's ties with the community.  "(Immigrants) are
not going to come to police and report anything," says the Tampa police Hispanic
liaison.

LOAD-DATE: July 19, 2004

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DISTRIBUTION: CITY & STATE; METRO & STATE; TAMPA & STATE

GRAPHIC: PHOTO, JOHN PENDYGRAFT; Tampa police Officer Brenda Canino-Fumero jokes
with members of a Spanish-speaking household who want her to take a puppy.

                    Copyright 2004 Times Publishing Company


                              228 of 302 DOCUMENTS

                         St. Petersburg Times (Florida)

               August 18, 2004 Wednesday 0 South Pinellas Edition

"The manager said we have to clean'

BYLINE: SAUNDRA AMRHEIN

SECTION: CITY & STATE; Pg. 1B

LENGTH: 1146 words

DATELINE: BOKEELIA


In a small, stuffy trailer Tuesday, on the northern tip of a decimated island,
an international showdown was brewing.

Moments earlier, Mexican Consul General Jorge Lomonaco from Miami walked among
uprooted trees, peeled aluminum and shells of homes in the Pink Citrus Trailer
Park on north Pine Island, at the mouth of Charlotte Harbor.

A fraction of the park's 500 Mexican residents have remained, finding shade from
a scorching sun under broken trees and awnings. Of those, about a dozen swarmed
around him.

"The manager said we have to clean," 39-year-old Leticia Blanquel told him. If
they don't clean the debris from the park on their own and pay the rent, they'll
be out, residents said they were told.

Lomonaco had planned to visit areas populated by Mexican residents after
Hurricane Charley passed. His first stop was Tuesday in Pink Citrus, located in
a small unincorporated area of Lee County with a population of about 2,000. He
was alerted to the park residents' woes through Spanish-language media.

As residents told him their concerns, Lomonaco listened, worried that the lives
of these laborers were about to get even harder. Many of the immigrants' homes
were ravaged. For some, their jobs were gone, too. But retirees and mariners on
the island had something they don't: a Social Security number.

Lomonaco feared that their illegal immigration status would leave the Mexican
workers the most vulnerable of all hurricane victims.

"We're concerned about their welfare," Lomonaco told a park caretaker in the
cramped trailer after walking through the park in jeans and work boots.

"Yes, as are we," said caretaker Ellie Carrier, sitting behind a desk, legs
crossed, an unlit cigarette between two fingers. "Unfortunately, we don't run on
thin air."

"Excuse me?" Lomonaco asked, as a large fan labored in another room.

"We need money," she said.

The two quickly began talking over each other.

"It's unfair," he said.

"In this part of Florida, there are thousands of homeless people" from the
hurricane, she said. "We need the lot rent in order to keep operating."

The residents, who work jobs in landscaping, construction and in citrus on
mainland farms, own the trailers, but pay $190 in monthly rent for the lots,
plus utilities.

"We're hoping that FEMA comes through for these people," she said. "But,
unfortunately, we're not a charity operation."

If residents don't pay the rent, they risk losing their lot, she said.

"That's a threat," Lomonaco said.

The two were pointing fingers, alternately yelling, "Let me finish my sentence!"

"We're not threatening anyone," Carrier barked.

"But I don't think it's fair to be charging rent in a trailer park that isn't
running at all," Lomonaco said.

If it's not running, why were there still so many people remaining in the park,
she asked.

"They don't have anywhere else to go!" he yelled.

There was no running water, no septic service, no electricity, no security, he
said.

"Security for what?" she shot back.

The workers need to feel safe about leaving their belongings in the trailers
cracked open by trees so they can go to work or find food and water, he said.

The lack of water and electricity were not the park's fault, Carrier said.

They've been asked to clean, he said, echoing the residents' concern that if
they didn't clear the fallen trees and rubble, they would lose their lots. If
they stayed back to clean up the park, they couldn't work.

"They've been asked to clean around their trailer," Carrier responded.

Lomonaco told her the park managers should stop thinking about money and give
the residents a break until they could get back on their feet.

His office would be asking for copies of leases, he added.

Carrier paused.

"No one who owns a trailer here has a lease," she said.

"I'm going to ask a lawyer to look into this," he said.

Lomonaco walked back outside to visit with residents.

"Don't sign anything," he told them in Spanish.

The owners of the park, registered with the state as Palm Harbor Development
Group Inc. of Tampa, could not be reached for comment Tuesday.

Lomonaco left the residents with another strong message: They would be eligible
for federal disaster aid regardless of their immigration status. His news echoed
comments made Monday by Florida Agriculture Commissioner Charles Bronson as he
toured devastated crops and citrus plants.

Word started to spread among residents in the park, many of whom said they
worried more about their damaged homes than about the temporary loss of work.

Daniel Perez, 30, didn't know how he was going to find money to repair his
trailer. Its windows were blown out and it was missing pieces of its walls.

Just next to his home, which he bought four years ago for $2,500 and lives in
with his wife and four children, a fat oak tree torn from the ground was lying
on its side. He doesn't have insurance.

Like many families, he had learned of the approaching hurricane when the
children were sent home from school.

Perez hopes to return to work soon so he won't get behind on the rent.

"I'll go tomorrow, but I had to clean," he said of the debris. He hopes to hear
from FEMA soon.

Some families didn't wait. They returned to Mexico, said Dante Romero, a
supervisor with Honc Septic, which does clearing and construction. Romero drove
through the park Tuesday bringing water and other supplies to his workers'
families and looking for immigrants who needed work.

The immigrants won't come forward for help, Romero said. They worry that if they
complain about possible abuse someone can turn them in for their illegal
immigration status.

"These people don't know if they're going to get ripped off," Romero said.

Times staff writer Matthew Waite contributed to this report.

Brenda Perez, 6, and brother Daniel, 4, on Tuesday walk under a tree that
Hurricane Charley knocked down Friday at the Pink Citrus Trailer Park in
Bokeelia on Pine Island. Their home is to the right. "I'm scared my house is
going to fall down," said Brenda.

from relief workers.

Mexican Consul General Jorge Lomonaco, center, listens to residents of Pink
Citrus Trailer Park, who tell him management has said they must clean up storm
debris on their own while continuing to pay rent.

Maria Perez sits with 8-month-old son Eduardo in a patch of shade at the trailer
park. She later received diapers, water and food for her four children

Mexican Consul General Jorge Lomonaco, center, listens to residents of Pink
Citrus Trailer Park, who tell him management has said they must clean up storm
debris on their own while continuing to pay rent.

Yolanda Jimenez, right, of Bowling Green, waits in line downtown for supplies.
"Anything helps," she said. Her roof was leaking and a tree was down in her
yard, but her main concern was for her mother who is paralized and mute.

LOAD-DATE: August 18, 2004

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DISTRIBUTION: CITY & STATE; METRO & STATE; TAMPA & STATE

SERIES: HURRICANE CHARLEY

GRAPHIC: PHOTO, KATHLEEN FLYNN, (4); Brenda Perez, 6, and brother Daniel, 4,
walk under a tree that Hurricane Charley knocked down Friday at the Pink Citrus
Trailer Park in Bokeelia on Pine Island.; Maria Perez sits with 8-month-old son
Eduardo in a patch of shade at the trailer; park.; Mexican Consul General Jorge
Lomonaco listens to residents of Pink Citrus Trailer Park. (ran CITY & STATE,
METRO & STATE);  Yolanda Jimenez of Bowling Green, waits in line downtown for
supplies. (ran CITY & STATE)

                    Copyright 2004 Times Publishing Company


                              229 of 302 DOCUMENTS

                         St. Petersburg Times (Florida)

                August 24, 2004 Tuesday 0 South Pinellas Edition

Study: Border officers split on security

SOURCE: Compiled from Times Wires

SECTION: NATIONAL; Pg. 3A

LENGTH: 808 words

DATELINE: WASHINGTON; SACRAMENTO, Calif.; LANSING, Mich.; BEAVER, Pa.


More than 60 percent of Border Patrol agents and immigration officers surveyed
for a study issued Monday said the Department of Homeland Security could do more
to stop potential terrorists from entering the country, and more than a third
said they lacked the tools and training to do so.

The survey, of 500 border agents and immigration inspectors, was conducted for
the unions representing them by Peter D. Hart Research Associates. It found low
morale to be pervasive among unionized employees, and a belief among 44 percent
that the country was no safer or was less safe than before the 9/11 attacks.

Officials at Homeland Security dismissed the survey as biased and inaccurate,
saying it offered only a limited snapshot of the views of the department's
42,000 employees.

In the last six months, the officials said, the department has turned away
hundreds of criminals, travelers with fake documents, including fraudulent
passports, and others barred from entry to the United States.

The study did include positive findings. A slim majority - about 53 percent -
said they believed the country was safer than before the Sept. 11 attacks.

FDA frets Illinois drug plan invites counterfeits

WASHINGTON - The Illinois governor's ambitious plan to help that state's
residents buy prescription drugs from the United Kingdom also may permit drug
imports from Europe's developing nations, the Food and Drug Administration
fears.

But a spokesman for Gov. Rod R. Blagojevich said Monday that the 84-page report
Illinois submitted to the federal agency explains the safeguards the state would
follow in procuring drugs only from FDA-inspected facilities and packaged for
distribution in Canada, the United Kingdom or Ireland.

William Hubbard, the agency's associate commissioner, said the Illinois plan
still "lacked specificity" on key areas.

For instance, opening America's door to prescription drugs from the United
Kingdom leaves it propped open for sketchier drug imports from lesser developed
countries, he said.

"They don't have the kind of sophisticated regulatory system the U.K. has,"
Hubbard said. With very little effort Latvia and Estonia, for example, could
turn into gateways through which counterfeit drugs made elsewhere could be
passed, he said.

Calif. lawmakers vote to return primary to June

SACRAMENTO, Calif. - Lawmakers have agreed to return California's primary to its
traditional date of June, ending the state's eight-year experiment with a March
primary.

The state Assembly approved the measure Monday. The Senate had already approved
a return to June voting.

The bill, which would take effect for the 2006 election, marks an end to
California's hopes that a March primary would give it more clout in nominating
presidential candidates.

To become law, the bill must be approved by the Senate and be signed by Gov.
Arnold Schwarzenegger before Sept. 30.

Mich. board keeps gay marriage from ballot

LANSING, Mich. - A state board voted along party lines Monday to keep a proposed
constitutional ban on gay marriage off the ballot - even though supporters
apparently collected many more signatures than required.

The Board of State Canvassers deadlocked 2-2 on whether to certify more than
464,000 signatures in favor of the amendment. Supporters needed only 317,757
valid signatures.

Two Democrats on the board voted against certification, while two Republicans
voted for it.

Democratic board member Doyle O'Connor said he is concerned the amendment's
wording would mean employers cannot provide benefits to same-sex partners. He
also said it could violate equal-protection laws and prohibit churches from
deciding whom to marry.

America's longest-serving mayor dies at age 95

BEAVER, Pa. - Robert P. Linn, recognized by the Guinness Book of World Records
as the nation's longest-serving mayor, has died. He was 95, and first took
office more than 58 years ago.

Mr. Linn, in his 15th term, died at home Saturday (Aug. 21, 2004), said his
daughter, Marty Scheidmantel.

"He always stood up for the community, and rightfully so," said Beaver County
Commissioners Chairman Dan Donatella. "Being mayor was almost a tradition for
him. He loved the community and always put it ahead of everything."

Mr. Linn was first sworn into office on Jan. 2, 1946.

In 1995, Mr. Linn was officially recognized as the longest-serving mayor in the
United States. Beaver is 25 miles northwest of Pittsburgh.

LACI PETERSON CASE: Scott Peterson's former mistress, Amber Frey, right, leaves
court Monday with her attorney Gloria Allred, left, after the first day of
cross-examination. Peterson's lawyers sought to portray Frey as a calculated
seducer and liar who was more obsessed with him than he was with her. Peterson
is on trial in Redwood City, Calif., accused of killing his wife and unborn
child.

LOAD-DATE: August 24, 2004

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

SERIES: IN BRIEF

GRAPHIC: PHOTO, Associated Press; Scott Peterson's former mistress, Amber Frey,
leaves court Monday with her attorney Gloria Allred, after the first day of
cross-examination.

TYPE: DIGEST

                    Copyright 2004 Times Publishing Company


                              230 of 302 DOCUMENTS

                         St. Petersburg Times (Florida)

                  August 24, 2004 Tuesday 2 Late Tampa Edition

Rape prosecution lost in translation

BYLINE: CHRISTOPHER GOFFARD

SECTION: TAMPA & STATE; Pg. 3B

LENGTH: 698 words

DATELINE: TAMPA


Implicated in a gang rape, the illiterate Guatemalan immigrant could only sign
with an X when Plant City police read him his Miranda rights in July 2003.

And when a Spanish-speaking detective tried to interview him, Andres Pascual
said he did not know what the detective was talking about.

Over and over, Pascual responded with the word "No."

Pascual's native tongue is Canjobal, a language of the Guatemalan jungles so
obscure that no one - not even the diverse group of professional interpreters at
the Hillsborough courthouse - was able to understand it.

Charged with raping a 45-year-old Plant City woman, and with holding her down
while two companions took turns raping her, Pascual was scheduled to go to trial
in January on four counts of sexual battery.

But defense attorneys asked for, and received, a delay so they could track down
a Canjobal speaker to interpret for their client. The case was set for trial
again this month. By then, however, the alleged victim, a homeless woman, had
disappeared.

The result: On Friday, prosecutors were forced to drop charges against Pascual,
26. An illegal immigrant, he was released to immigration officials, who will
likely deport him.

"We had our victim," said State Attorney spokesperson Pam Bondi. "Then, due to
the numerous delays, we lost our victim. And despite an extensive search for
her, she could not be found."

At 2:25 a.m. July 27, 2003, police say, three men gang-raped a Plant City woman
in an overgrown lot beside an abandoned building on E Baker Street. The men fled
when a witness, having heard the woman scream, threatened to call police.

Plant City police arrested Pascual, a migrant farm worker, and Andres Pedro
Miguel, another migrant, who was deported before prosecutors could file charges.
A third attacker was never caught.

Assistant Public Defender Marcia Perlin argued that the charges against Pascual
should be thrown out because his inability to understand the proceedings
prevented him from getting a fair trial. Hillsborough Circuit Judge Wayne
Timmerman scheduled a hearing for Friday to determine whether Pascual needed a
special interpreter.

Prosecutors were prepared to dispute the defense's contention that Pascual could
not adequately speak Spanish.

"He was living here," said prosecutor Mike Sinacore. "He was working here. He
was interviewed by law enforcement, and all of those things would indicate he
certainly was functioning here. Law enforcement says he spoke Spanish
sufficiently to get statements from him."

Experts who examined Pascual were split. One expert said the language barrier
prevented him from understanding court proceedings, and another said that his
Spanish, while ungrammatical, was good enough for him to stand trial.

Prosecutors had tracked down a Canjobal speaker in Miami through the Guatemalan
consulate there, in case they needed one.

With the victim missing, however, and no guarantee she could be quickly located
in time for the trial, which was set for Monday, prosecutors opted to drop
charges rather than proceed with the hearing.

The defense on July 15 had demanded a speedy trial, meaning prosecutors had just
two months to bring him to trial. Prosecutors say they were aware of the
victim's whereabouts at least until March, but by July she had vanished.

Even if Pascual spoke a few words of Spanish, said John Skye, spokesman for the
Hillsborough County Public Defender's Office, that did not mean he could get a
fair trial.

"Speaking rudimentary Spanish is not the same thing as being able to understand
the process of a criminal trial," said Skye.

Though it was "unfortunate" the alleged victim had disappeared, he said, the
judge made the right call in delaying the case so an interpreter could be found.

"We don't have any control over the victim," Skye said. "Because she might
disappear next week, are we in a position to waive our client's rights? What are
we supposed to do, say this guy is not supposed to get a fair trial because the
victim is transient and may not be able to to be found two weeks from now?
That's obviously preposterous."

Christopher Goffard can be reached at (813) 226-3337 or goffard@sptimes.com.

LOAD-DATE: August 24, 2004

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DISTRIBUTION: TAMPA & STATE; CITY & STATE; METRO & STATE

GRAPHIC: PHOTO; Andres Pascual

                    Copyright 2004 Times Publishing Company


                              231 of 302 DOCUMENTS

                         St. Petersburg Times (Florida)

              September 1, 2004 Wednesday 0 South Pinellas Edition

CALIFORNIA GOV. ARNOLD SCHWARZENEGGER

SECTION: NATIONAL; Pg. 11A

LENGTH: 777 words


"To think that a once-scrawny boy from Austria could grow up to become governor
of California and . . . speak on behalf of the president of the United States,
that is an immigrant's dream. It is the American dream. . . . My fellow
immigrants, my fellow Americans, how do you know if you are a Republican? . . .
If you believe that government should be accountable to the people, not the
people to the government. . . . then you are a Republican! . . . If you believe
your family knows how to spend your money better than the government does . . .
then you are a Republican! . . . If you believe we must be fierce and relentless
and terminate terrorism . . . then you are a Republican! . . . To those critics
who are so pessimistic about our economy, I say: Don't be economic girlie men!
The U.S. economy remains the envy of the world. . . . Make no mistake about it -
terrorism is more insidious than communism, because it yearns to destroy not
just the individual but the entire international order. . . . That's why America
is safer with George W. Bush as president. He knows you don't reason with
terrorists. You defeat them."

FIRST LADY LAURA BUSH

"I am so proud of the way George has led our country with strength and
conviction. . . . We are living in the midst of the most historic struggle my
generation has ever known. . . . So I want to talk about the issue that I
believe is most important for my own daughters, for all our families, and for
our future: George's work to protect our country and defeat terror so that all
children can grow up in a more peaceful world. . . . My husband didn't want to
go to war, but he knew the safety and security of America and the world depended
on it. . . . As we do the hard work of confronting today's threat - we can also
be proud that 50-million more men, women and children live in freedom thanks to
the United States of America and our allies. . . . People ask me all the time
whether George has changed. He's a little grayer - and of course, he has learned
and grown. But he's still the same person I met at a backyard barbecue in
Midland, Texas. . . . He'll always tell you what he really thinks. You can count
on him, especially in a crisis. . . . These are times that require an especially
strong and determined leader. And I'm proud that my husband is that kind of
leader."

MARYLAND LT. GOV. MICHAEL STEELE

Speaking on the civil rights anniversary: "What truly defines the civil rights
challenge today isn't whether you can get a seat at the lunch counter. It's
whether you can own that lunch counter in order to create legacy wealth for your
children. . . . Now you may remember I mentioned Maebell Turner as one of the
great inspirations in my life. . . . She grew up the daughter of sharecroppers
and had to quit school in the fifth grade to work a farm. . . . She raised me to
understand and appreciate the words of Abraham Lincoln, who said: "You cannot
bring about prosperity by discouraging thrift. You cannot strengthen the weak by
weakening the strong. You cannot help the wage earner by pulling down the wage
payer. You cannot further the brotherhood of man by encouraging class hatred.
You cannot help the poor by destroying the rich. . . . You cannot help men
permanently by doing for them what they should do for themselves.' These are the
beliefs of our Republican Party. These are the principles that drew me to this
party 28 years ago. And today, the standard-bearer of these convictions is
George W. Bush."

PRINCELLA SMITH, MTV ESSAY WINNER

The Stand Up and Holla! contest asked young Americans to write how President
Bush's call to service resonates in their lives. For winning, the 20-year-old
got to address the convention: "Over a decade ago, a fellow Arkansan at a
national convention talked about a place called Hope. Now I would like to talk
about another small town in Arkansas - a place called Wynne. Growing up in Wynne
I learned to value service and community. However, as I grew older some
residents began to lose faith in my generation, labeling us "turbulent teens,'
"troubled children' and the one I like least - "Generation X.' . . . The
president inspires us to be what I call Generation X-ample. President Bush calls
on us to change the world. Our generation of 18-year-old soldiers has taken a
stand against the horrors of terrorism in order to bring peace and democracy to
those without hope. . . . Tonight I call on not only Generation X, but members
of every generation to be "the greatest generation,' and urge everyone to adhere
to a universal message that transcends ideology: Serve your fellow man and you
win every time."

LOAD-DATE: September 1, 2004

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

SERIES: WHAT THEY SAID; REPUBLICAN NATIONAL CONVENTION

GRAPHIC: PHOTO, CHRIS ZUPPA, (2); PHOTO, Getty Images, (2); Arnold
Schwarzenegger making his speech at the Republican Convention; Laura Bush making
her speech at the Republican Convention; Michael Steele making his speech at the
Republican Convention; Princella Smith making her speech at the Republican;
Convention

                    Copyright 2004 Times Publishing Company


                              232 of 302 DOCUMENTS

                         St. Petersburg Times (Florida)

             September 15, 2004 Wednesday 0 South Pinellas Edition

In seeking U.S. asylum, he now lives a nightmare

BYLINE: MARY JO MELONE

SECTION: CITY & STATE; Pg. 1B

LENGTH: 698 words


Before Tuesday, I had never talked to anyone held by that scary new federal
agency, the Department of Homeland Security. But then Paramvir Singh Chattwal
called.

He said he wants to die.

Chattwal has been in DHS' detention facility at the Manatee County jail since
last October. From the moment he got there, he has been fighting to be saved
from the very country he once thought would be his refuge.

Chattwal sought political asylum in the United States, saying he had endured
threats, torture and detention in his native India. He is a member of the Sikh
faith, a minority in India and for years the target of oppression  by the Hindu
majority. When he was a teenager, Chattwal said, he witnessed the police
execution of four other young men. To keep his silence, they detained him. He
was beaten, subjected to electric shock, submerged in near-boiling water, burned
with cigarettes, hung upside down and left for dead.

Chattwal came to the United States and hired a lawyer for his asylum request in
2000. Bureaucratic failure after failure followed, he said when we talked
Tuesday. He said the Immigration and Naturalization Service never told his
attorney the date of his asylum hearing. It was held anyway, and when Chattwal
failed to show, a deportation order was issued. That order somehow never reached
him.

Chattwal said he assumed the asylum process was still going on, and moved around
the country, working the odd jobs that illegal immigrants often take - in
hotels, a convenience store. He even worked as a stable hand. Years passed. He
took a Florida vacation and was caught speeding in Venice. When police ran a
check on his name, his deportation order popped up. He was promptly sent to
Homeland Security's Bradenton detention center.

Chattwal's case has been taken up by the Florida Center for Survivors of Torture
and Refugee Services in Clearwater as well as Amnesty International USA. They
want to know why the government is so bent on deporting Chattwal, despite the
fact that he's no danger to anybody, and certainly not a security threat.

He never has had a hearing on his asylum request at which he was present. One
judge ordered the case reopened, only to have another judge close it.

The Canadian government offered to take in Chattwal, but the Department of
Homeland Security said no.

The prospect of returning to India has plunged him into despair. He thinks of
killing himself in jail.

"If you have the choice of being tortured and killed and ending your own life,
what would you choose?" he said when we spoke by phone. "I don't think I can go
through it again. People accused of crime in this country get a trial . . . What
wrong did I do?"

The Department of Homeland Security, working through a smaller agency called
Immigration and Customs Enforcement, has taken over the duties of INS. The new
agency has a chilling name: ICE. It has shown Chattwal no mercy. An agency
spokesperson wouldn't explain to the St. Petersburg Times why he isn't being
allowed to go to Canada. Chattwal said he never heard about his asylum hearing,
but the agency said he had his chance, didn't appear, and the law has been
followed.

He lost there and has lost since.

Chattwal lost for what may be the last time Tuesday, when a federal appeals
court refused to stop his deportation.

When I spoke to him again after the court ruling, he talked through tears. "I'm
absolutely devastated," he said. "I just pray God come down and save me or take
my life."

The news also stunned the people who have worked on his behalf. "We've tried
everything to save this man's life," said Niki L. Kelly  from the Florida Center
for Survivors of Torture and Refugee Services.

Chattwal said his family has told him authorities will be waiting for him when
he gets off the plane in New Dehli and he'll be whisked off to God knows where.
He fully expects to never be heard from again.

Such a horror, and yet I'm afraid many people here won't side with Chattwal. In
a post 9/11 world, sympathy is in short supply, even though this country was
built on being a beacon for people like Chattwal. When we lost our sense of
safety did we lose our sense of decency too?

LOAD-DATE: September 15, 2004

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DISTRIBUTION: CITY & STATE; METRO & STATE; TAMPA & STATE

TYPE: COLUMN

                    Copyright 2004 Times Publishing Company


                              233 of 302 DOCUMENTS

                         St. Petersburg Times (Florida)

                            January 28, 2001, Sunday

Reno was not a protector of immigrants' basic rights

BYLINE: ROBYN E. BLUMNER

SECTION: PERSPECTIVE; Pg. 4D

LENGTH: 797 words



Now that it is all but certain John Ashcroft will be the new attorney general,
most progressive public interest groups are in mourning. But not all. Advocates
for immigrants are breathing a tentative sigh of relief. For them, the departure
of Janet Reno is a welcome turn - her reign of error has come to an end.

It's hard to know why Reno led such an intense effort to deny immigrants due
process rights. Maybe it sprang from a prosecutor's impulse to grant law
enforcement every ounce of discretion, authority and power the law allows. Maybe
it was her perpetual bad hair days. But whatever the reason, immigrants and
Microsoft bore the brunt of her adverse attentions - and one of those didn't
have the resources to put up much of a fight.

Under Reno, the department greatly expanded its use of secret evidence against
immigrants, drawing nearly two dozen people, mostly Arab and Muslim, into
situations where they were kept in the dark about the accusations against them.
One of these, Mazen Al-Najjar, a Palestinian who had resided in the United
States for 20 years, was denied bond while fighting deportation and held as a
national security threat in a Bradenton jail for more than three years on secret
allegations. Al-Najjar was finally released in December, after the department's
public case against him was shown to be weaker than a chad-punching Florida
voter.

To be fair, Congress is partly to blame for the department's anti-immigrant
approach. In 1996, Congress passed two particularly nasty laws designed to stop
undocumented immigrants at the border and sweep even some legal ones out of the
country without recourse. But as Lucas Guttentag, director of the American Civil
Liberties Union Immigrants' Rights Project, said: "(The attorney general took)
every opportunity to adopt the harshest possible interpretation of the new
laws."

If there was an open question over whether aspects of the oppressive new laws
applied retroactively, Reno said they did. The result was the deportation of
hundreds if not thousands of legal immigrants who had lived in this country for
decades, raised American-citizen children and were productive members of the
community, but who had once committed a crime that fit the broadly-defined term
"aggravated felony." One example was former Floridian Luis Espinosa, who raised
four children after his wife left him, children he had to leave behind when he
was deported to Mexico in 1998 because he once had been convicted of marijuana
possession.

Then there are the indefinite detainees, immigrants with a criminal record who
are deportable but their country of origin refuses to take them back. An
estimated 4,000 such immigrants are currently being held in jails and prisons
across the country with no prospect of release.

Two cases challenging these detentions are before the U.S. Supreme Court this
term. One involves Kim Ho Ma, who left his native Cambodia when he was 2 years
old as a refugee and came to live in the United States at age 6. At 17, he was
involved in a gang-related shooting for which he was convicted of manslaughter
and served a two-year sentence. The INS then took him into custody and ordered
his removal, but Cambodia wouldn't take him back because our nations don't have
a repatriation agreement - a problem that exists with numerous countries around
the world. Despite evidence of strong family relationships, Ma's rehabilitation
and the promise of employment upon his release, Ma was kept incarcerated at a
Washington state prison in INS custody. The agency said there was no guarantee
that Ma would remain non-violent if released.

Ma filed a federal habeas corpus petition saying that keeping someone
incarcerated without charge for potentially the rest of his life is
unconstitutional. The INS responded that Congress granted it the power to keep
immigrants in custody for however long it takes to remove them and the courts
should stay out of it.

But a San Francisco federal appellate court, sidestepping the constitutional
question, ruled that indefinite detainees could only be held for a "reasonable"
term beyond the statutory 90-day removal period.

Reno's department didn't like that result and appealed the ruling to the U.S.
Supreme Court. Apparently, holding people for a reasonable length of time isn't
good enough; the INS wants the power to keep people unreasonably long. Oral
arguments in the case are scheduled for Feb. 21.

During her goodbye speech to employees at the department, Reno reflected on her
proudest achievements. Among them, she said, was her commitment to protecting
fundamental rights and liberties that are the cornerstone of democracy.

Huh? Is this revisionism or self-delusion? Or did she mean it with an asterisk:
for American citizens only?


LOAD-DATE: January 31, 2001

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: BLACK AND WHITE DRAWING, KERRY WAGHORN; BLACK AND WHITE CARTOON, DON
ADDIS; Caricature of Janet Reno; A couple at the Super Bowl ponder the event.
She is thinking XXXV, while he has XXX on his mind.

TYPE: COLUMN

                    Copyright 2001 Times Publishing Company


                              234 of 302 DOCUMENTS

                         St. Petersburg Times (Florida)

             February 24, 2001, Saturday, 0 South Pinellas Edition

Citizenship records can frustrate researchers

BYLINE: DONNA MURRAY ALLEN

SECTION: FLORIDIAN; HOME & GARDEN; GENEALOGY; Pg. 4D

LENGTH: 738 words



First of three parts.

"I find the naturalization records in many cases in a chaotic condition, many
lost and destroyed, and some sold for old paper - I find aliens naturalized
under initials instead of Christian names, surnames misspelled or changed
entirely, and the names of witnesses inserted in place of the alien's."

This quote, attributed to a Justice Department investigator in 1903, appears on
the National Archives' Web site and accurately describes the mayhem you'll
encounter when delving into naturalization records (see http://www.nara.gov).

You won't be the only one confused. Go to the naturalization section of the
Immigration and Naturalization Service's Web site, and you'll be told to go to
the National Archives for records prior to 1906 (http://www.ins.usdoj.gov/),
but, on its site, NARA says it generally does not have county and state records
from before 1906.

If citizenship records weren't such an important source for discovering things
such as an immigrant's homeland, original name and date of arrival, their
pursuit wouldn't be worth enduring the aggravation.

Naturalization is a complicated topic and each person's search so individualized
that this column will focus only on the information necessary to begin your
odyssey.

Learn the buzzwords. Naturalization is the procedure by which a foreign-born
person becomes a U.S. citizen. Generally the process goes like this: A person
files a Declaration of Intention; after a period of time - the number of years
varies - a Petition for Naturalization is filed; once the petition is granted, a
Certificate of Naturalization is issued. The declaration and petition contain
the genealogical data.

There are exceptions, mostly notably derivative citizenship. From 1790 to 1922,
wives of naturalized men automatically became citizens and from 1790 to 1940,
children under age 21 automatically became citizens when their fathers were
naturalized. Names of wives and children were seldom included in the paperwork.
Exceptions also were made for veterans. Through the years, various laws were
passed to speed up the naturalization process for those who served in the Armed
Forces.

The key factor in determining where you need to look for records is the year
1906. That's when the Immigration and Naturalization Service was established.
From the time Congress passed the first law regulating naturalization in 1790
until Sept. 26, 1906, when the INS came into existence, no uniform standards
existed. Each state did its own thing. Naturalization could take place in any
court with common law jurisdiction, so the original paperwork might be filed in
local, state or federal court. People tended to pick the one most convenient.

The names of these courts vary by state. Circuit, district, chancery, superior
and common pleas are some examples. Today, you might find these records from
before 1906 in a county or state court, a state archive or even a regional
archive. (In Pennsylvania, the Prothonotary Office, located in county
courthouses, is the repository for any local naturalization records that still
exist.)

The establishment of the INS brought standardization. All courts began using the
same forms and guidelines. Even more important for researchers, the federal
government began keeping copies of naturalization records. INS naturalization
certificate files, known as C-Files, include a duplicate copy of all
naturalization records dated after Sept. 26, 1906. Microfilmed C-Files from 1906
to 1956 can be obtained from INS Headquarters in Washington, D.C. Call (202)
514-1722 for details. For records after 1956, write to the appropriate district
INS office. (In Florida, write to the Immigration and Naturalization Service,
7880 Biscayne Blvd., Miami, FL 33138.) Look for more information about
citizenship records in next week's column.

Note: Mormon Family History Centers are great places to conduct research. Find
the one nearest you by logging onto http://www.familysearch.org/. Click on
library systems, then click on Family History Centers.

- Information from the INS and NARA Web sites was used in this report.

Donna Murray Allen welcomes your questions about genealogy and will respond to
those of general interest in future columns. Sorry, she can't take phone calls,
but you can write to her c/o Home & Garden, St. Petersburg Times, P.O. Box 1121,
St. Petersburg, FL 33731, or e-mail her at rootscolumn@aol.com.


LOAD-DATE: February 24, 2001

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: COLUMN

                    Copyright 2001 Times Publishing Company


                              235 of 302 DOCUMENTS

                         St. Petersburg Times (Florida)

               March 10, 2001, Saturday, 0 South Pinellas Edition

Spots to check as you track immigrant ancestors

BYLINE: DONNA MURRAY ALLEN

SECTION: FLORIDIAN; HOME & GARDEN; GENEALOGY; Pg. 4D

LENGTH: 727 words



Third of three parts.

There are worse experiences than trying to determine your immigrant ancestor's
country of origin. Sticking pins in your eyes comes to mind. But success is
possible, and that's what gives dedicated genealogists a reason to press on,
even when their eyes cross from trolling through mounds of documents.

A fortunate few can even walk right into the county courthouse where their
ancestor lived and pluck the proper documents from a tidy file, alphabetized by
surname. If you're one of them, buy a lottery ticket now. The rest of us must
muddle through the naturalization maze, bumping into one dead end after another.

As I wrote in a previous column, you should be able to obtain copies of any
naturalization records from the Immigration and Naturalization Service if the
paperwork was filed after 1906. Finding paperwork for those who arrived before
1906 will push your patience to the limit.

Once you've exhausted courthouse resources, head for the state and regional
archives. If you're researching from afar, see what microfilmed records and
books of compiled records are available at your local library and Mormon Family
History Center. Online? Check the appropriate county's genealogy site. Many
offer full or partial indexes of local courthouse records. If you get a hit,
write to the courthouse and request the files.

Try a random search at http://www.rootsweb.com/ usgenweb/ussearch.htm. Pick your
state, enter "naturalization records" or "citizenships records" in the query box
and click. Another good site is http://distantcousin.com/
links/naturalization.html, and you can simply put "citizenship records" in your
browser's search box and click. You'll be surprised at what pops up. (You get
more hits by using the word citizenship instead of naturalization.)

Feel the need to really beat your head against the wall? Then passenger ship
lists are for you. They're incomplete. You must know the port of arrival and
time frame, and you run the risk of confusing your relative with others who
share the same name. Libraries, Family History Centers and online sites such as
http://www.rootsweb.com and http://www.cyndislist.com have these records.

If your ancestor took a trip abroad, he might have a passport application on
file. The National Archives and Records Administration keeps passport
applications from 1795 to March 1925. After that, the U.S. Department of State
has them. Homestead records are also stashed at NARA. Late 19th century
immigrants who wanted to homestead had to prove citizenship.

It's a long shot, but your ancestor might have left some worldly goods to an
heir in the "old country." Check wills and probate records just in case. While
you're there, look at the voting records. Only citizens could vote and hold
public office. Local history books, though often inaccurate, are possible
sources. So are obituaries and family Bibles.

Don't give up before checking the 1900, 1910 and 1920 census rolls. Questions
about citizenship were asked. The records should show whether the residents were
foreign-born and, if so, the year of immigration and if they were naturalized.
In both 1910 and 1920, residents were asked if English was their native language
and, if not, what language was spoken.

Use census records only as guidelines. Census takers were not particularly
diligent. But even if his spelling is atrocious and he used Wurttemburg and
Germany synonymously, you just might latch onto something useful.

No matter what records you dig up, don't jump to conclusions. The biggest
mistake novices make is ending their research prematurely. Too many people in
the same area shared the same name, particularly since immigrants from the same
country tended to live near one another.

When I found citizenship papers for both James Murray and Anna Karnock after one
pass through the Prothonotary Office in the Fayette County, Pa., courthouse, I
was thrilled. Then I took a closer look. The names and ages were right. The time
frame fit.

But neither one is a twig on my family tree.

Donna Murray Allen welcomes your questions about genealogy and will respond to
those of general interest in future columns. Sorry, she can't take phone calls,
but you can write to her c/o Home & Garden, St. Petersburg Times, P.O. Box 1121,
St. Petersburg, FL 33731, or e-mail her at rootscolumn@aol.com.


LOAD-DATE: March 12, 2001

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: COLUMN; SERIES

                    Copyright 2001 Times Publishing Company


                              236 of 302 DOCUMENTS

                         St. Petersburg Times (Florida)

                May 26, 2001, Saturday, 0 South Pinellas Edition

Gravano pleads guilty to running ecstasy ring

SOURCE: Compiled from Times Wires

SECTION: NATIONAL; Pg. 8A

LENGTH: 497 words

DATELINE: NEW YORK



Salvatore "Sammy the Bull" Gravano, the mob turncoat who put John Gotti away,
admitted Friday that he had returned to a life of crime by running a
multimillion-dollar ecstasy ring in Arizona with his son.

Gravano, 55, and his son, Gerard, 24, both pleaded guilty to federal drug
charges and face up to 15 1/2 years in prison at sentencing Sept. 11.

In the courthouse where he once testified against the likes of "Dapper Don"
Gotti, the elder Gravano admitted he "lent money to people" who dealt ecstasy.

Prosecutors said Gravano took over his son's failing drug-dealing operation in
1998 to teach him how to turn a profit. The case was prosecuted in New York
because Gravano was accused of buying thousands of ecstasy pills in Brooklyn and
selling them in Arizona.

Also Friday

IMMIGRANTS IMPROVING: The conditions of 12 Mexican immigrants who survived
furnacelike conditions in the desert near Yuma, Ariz., were improving Friday,
doctors said.

Meanwhile, a number of immigrant rights groups said the deaths of 14 other
illegal border crossers had caused them to consider stronger challenges to what
they called hostile U.S. border policy.

SHARPTON JAILED: The Rev. Al Sharpton, handcuffed and escorted by police,
arrived from Puerto Rico on Friday and was immediately taken to a detention
facility to serve a 90-day sentence for trespassing on Navy land on Vieques
island.

Sharpton was convicted of a misdemeanor but sentenced as a repeat offender
because he had prior arrests for civil disobedience.

CLOSET-DWELLING SOLDIER SENTENCED: A soldier who lived in a 15-year-old girl's
bedroom closet was sentenced to seven years in prison Friday for having sex with
the girl and other offenses.

Jeffrey Scott Martin, 26, pleaded guilty in March to unlawful sexual conduct
with a minor, taking nude pictures of the girl and possessing military
explosives.

He met the girl last year over the Internet, then in October deserted his Army
unit at Fort Knox, Ky. Martin lived with the girl for three weeks, staying in
the closet whenever her mother was in their Mount Vernon, Ohio, home.

He was discovered when the girl's mother found dishes, a pillow and other items
in the closet.

DELAWARE EXECUTES MAN: A career criminal convicted of killing a man during a
drug deal 10 years ago was executed by injection early Friday after a judge
rejected his long-shot appeal.

Abdullah T. Hameen, 37, received the injection at the Delaware Correctional
Center just after midnight as punishment for the murder of Troy Hodges in 1991.

SHOPLIFTING DEATH: A security guard and a Rite Aid employee will not face
charges in their deadly scuffle with an accused shoplifter in Detroit because
the woman strongly resisted the arrest, prosecutors said Friday.

Alwanda Gail Person-Jackson escaped from handcuffs and tackled a security guard
before she was hogtied and someone sat on her back, the government said.

A medical examiner called Person-Jackson's April 6 death a homicide.


LOAD-DATE: May 26, 2001

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: DIGEST

                    Copyright 2001 Times Publishing Company


                              237 of 302 DOCUMENTS

                         St. Petersburg Times (Florida)

                 May 30, 2001, Wednesday, 2 Late Tampa Edition

INS employee sues agency over claimed threats

SOURCE: Compiled from Wire Reports

SECTION: TAMPA & STATE; AROUND THE STATE; Pg. 5B

LENGTH: 293 words

DATELINE: MIAMI; PENSACOLA



An Immigration and Naturalization Service whistle blower charged in a lawsuit
Tuesday that he has been threatened within the agency over his reports of
anti-Cuban bias in the federal raid to seize Elian Gonzalez.

Ricardo Ramirez alleged that then-Attorney General Janet Reno and INS
Commissioner Doris Meissner conspired with underlings to destroy evidence of
bias and threaten agents with retaliation if they talked about it.

The federal lawsuit seeks $ 25-million in damages and a court order to protect
Ramirez from threats.

Ramirez, a 16-year INS veteran of Mexican descent, has said the message "Watch
out traitor" was left on his windshield at work when word of internal dissension
spread. He said examples of anti-Cuban bias at the INS office in Miami included
a slash mark through the Cuban flag, a Miami seal bearing the words "Banana
Republic" and the words "Kick me" on pictures of Elian.

The boy's Miami relatives fought futilely in court to keep him in an
international tug-of-war after his mother drowned during a boat crossing from
Cuba to Florida in November 1999.

Crash-related health issue

delays businessman's trial

PENSACOLA - The tax evasion trial of a seafood dealer and shipyard owner has
been delayed indefinitely because of a suspected seizure that may have caused
him to crash his truck into a steam engine on display in a downtown median.

Frank Patti, who was supposed to go on trial Tuesday in Tallahassee, remained at
Baptist Hospital where he has been since the collision Friday. He was listed in
fair condition Tuesday.

Patti, 70, is accused of failing to report nearly $ 7-million in income from
1993 through 1998.

Police said Patti's injuries from the wreck appeared to be slight.

- Wire reports


LOAD-DATE: May 30, 2001

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DISTRIBUTION: TAMPA & STATE

TYPE: DIGEST

                    Copyright 2001 Times Publishing Company


                              238 of 302 DOCUMENTS

                         St. Petersburg Times (Florida)

                June 19, 2001, Tuesday, 0 South Pinellas Edition

INS' premium imports

SECTION: EDITORIAL; EDITORIALS; Pg. 8A

LENGTH: 280 words



The Immigration and Naturalization Service plans to offer applicants who pay an
extra $ 1,000 an expedited review of their work visa applications. Eventually
shortening the process for everyone is a worthy goal, but allowing a privileged
few to go to cut in line is not the way to bring fairness to the process.

The new $ 1,000 fee will entitle applicants to a brisk, 15-day review instead of
the customary months-long process that costs about $ 110. The program, called
"premium processing," is aimed at speeding action on visas for applicants deemed
highly desirable, including foreign-born athletes, entertainers, scientists and
corporate executives. Despite the slim likelihood that farmers or farm laborers
will be able to afford the fee, some temporary agricultural or service workers
would qualify, too.

Business owners lobbied hard for the change, and many employers have agreed to
put up the extra cash for these premium imports. INS officials caution that the
fee will not guarantee that work permits will be granted. But for a backlogged
agency where money is scarce and demand for service is rising, the new program
could create a huge temptation to place money ahead of sound immigration
decisions in order to keep the cash flowing.

Agency officials claim the fees would shorten the process for everyone in the
long run, but only about one-fourth of the projected revenue will be used to
hire more staff to process applications. Congress should adequately fund the
agency's immigration operations. The goal should be to increase fairness and
improve service across the board, not to favor those who can afford to buy their
way to the head of the line.


LOAD-DATE: June 19, 2001

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: EDITORIAL

                    Copyright 2001 Times Publishing Company


                              239 of 302 DOCUMENTS

                         St. Petersburg Times (Florida)

                July 03, 2001, Tuesday, 0 South Pinellas Edition

THE NEW AMERICANS

BYLINE: DAVE SCHEIBER

SECTION: FLORIDIAN; Pg. 1D

LENGTH: 508 words

DATELINE: TAMPA



On a sweltering Wednesday morning last week, in a tent bedecked with red, white
and blue balloons and little American flags, 115 immigrants gathered for a
ritual as old as the nation.

They took the oath to become U.S. citizens.

They came from 45 countries and left with a shared identity. U.S. Attorney
General John Ashcroft congratulated the new citizens in a short speech at the
Immigration and Naturalization Service office, then shook their hands as they
received their certificates of citizenship.

It would have been hard to find a bigger, happier group than the six people from
the town of Tiraspol in Moldova, a country that borders Ukraine in the former
Soviet Union.

The Moldovan Jewish contingent had fled the country in the early '90s amid
rising tension between Romanian and Russian factions. "You would see signs like,
"Kill the Jews and drown the Russians with their blood,' " said Larisa Oykherman
Trexler, 31. "You wondered if you might not wake up the next morning."

So the two families, distantly related, hurried to leave their homeland -
allowed only two bags a person, a few pieces of jewelry and only $ 500 per
group.

In many ways, the Moldovans at the ceremony could have been any group of
immigrants in U.S. history who escaped oppression to seek hope and new lives in
America.

They had much in common: Each had left behind good jobs, good friends and loved
ones. Each came to Sarasota speaking no English, and each was starting from
scratch. Now, they took up almost an entire row at the ceremony, smiling,
glancing around, soaking in the event.

At one end sat Luba Khasik, 45, and daughter Anna, 23. They came to Florida in
1994, settling in Sarasota with relatives. In 1995, they were joined by the
other four: parents Leva and Anna Oykherman, 54 and 52, their daughter Larisa,
and her daughter, Violetta, 10. On hand to help celebrate were Larisa's new
husband, John Trexler, a Sarasota golf pro, and Luba's 12-year-old niece, Irena
Zub.

When they arrived in America, they took any jobs they could find. Leva, a career
optician, went to work delivering Papa John's Pizza. His wife, a school
administrator, did clothing alterations. Larisa, a preschool teacher, worked at
a beauty salon.

After only a few years here, all are right at home, living amid many Moldovan
and Russian Jewish immigrants in the area.

Violetta and Irena listen to 'N Sync and speak without a trace of an accent.
Larisa is a successful real estate agent. Luba works in the U.S. pension office,
and her daughter Anna attends Manatee Community College.

Other family members will be getting their citizenship soon - like Luba's
younger sister Svetlana Zub, mother of Irena and 7-year-old Ruslan, and Larisa's
younger sister, also named Irena.

But last Wednesday night was reserved for the new citizens. The families
gathered at Leva and Anna's Sarasota home, dined and laughed, and celebrated
their first day as Americans.

"Compared to what we had in Russia," said fifth-grader Violetta, "this is all
like a miracle."


LOAD-DATE: July 3, 2001

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: PHOTO, TONI L. SANDYS; Six new American citizens from Moldova shared
their elation last week with other relatives from the former Soviet country:
Irena Belaya, Anna Khasik (citizen), Svetlana Zub, Luba Khasik (citizen), Larisa
Trexler (citizen), John Trexler, Irena Zub, Violetta Millerman (citizen) with
dog Lucy, Ruslan Zub, Leva Oykherman (citizen) and Anna Oykherman (citizen).

                    Copyright 2001 Times Publishing Company


                              240 of 302 DOCUMENTS

                         St. Petersburg Times (Florida)

               July 04, 2001, Wednesday, 0 South Pinellas Edition

Never endorse indefinite detention

SECTION: EDITORIAL; EDITORIALS; Pg. 16A

LENGTH: 514 words



It should have been as much of a no-brainer as one can get in a U.S. Supreme
Court case. The question before the court was whether the Immigration and
Naturalization Service may keep deportable immigrants locked up indefinitely if
no other nation will accept them.

The court said: No, they must be released after a reasonable time. But what
should have been a simple decision came in a razor-thin 5-to-4 vote. Four
dissenters were willing to allow the executive branch to imprison someone with
no hope of release, due to his or her unlucky immigration circumstances.

We are truly only one new justice away from a very harsh court.

The ruling involved two cases, Zadvydas vs. Davis and Ashcroft vs. Ma. In both,
the immigrants were deportable due to their crimes. Kim Ho Ma, a Cambodian who
came to the United States as a child refugee, spent time in a Washington state
prison for a gang-related killing. Kestutis Zadvydas was born in a displaced
persons camp in Germany in 1948 and later came to the United States with his
Lithuanian parents. Over his life, Zadvydas committed a long list of crimes for
which he served prison time.

Both were ordered deported, but efforts to do so failed. In Ma's case, Cambodia
and the United States have no repatriation agreement. In the case of Zadvydas,
Germany refused to take him, rendering him stateless. The men served two and
three years respectively in INS custody before federal judges finally said
"enough" and ordered their release.

The Supreme Court ruling, authored by Justice Stephen Breyer, said that a
federal immigration law giving the INS the power to detain immigrants
indefinitely constitutes "a serious constitutional problem" to the guarantees of
due process under the Fifth Amendment. To avoid striking down the law, the court
gave it a limiting construction: After six months of detention, if repatriation
is not reasonably foreseeable, immigrants would have to be released under a
supervisory receivership - a kind of probation.

The dissent by Justice Anthony Kennedy centers on his view that the majority
ruling usurps executive branch authority on immigration issues. It then goes on
to wring its hands over the dangers of criminal aliens being released in our
country. "The risk to the community posed by the mandatory release of aliens who
are dangerous or a flight risk is far from insubstantial," Kennedy wrote.

But these immigrants had already served their criminal sentences. Had they been
American citizens, they would have been routinely released back into society.
Except for sex offenders, we don't allow continued imprisonment once criminal
sentences have been served.

While the court came to the correct judgment here, it is chilling to think how
close we are to a court willing to take the other side. The words that define
our justice system - fairness and proportionality - also speak to the reasons
our society can never endorse indefinite detention. It will be a sad day if and
when those concepts of fairness and proportionality take a back seat to
executive-branch discretion.


LOAD-DATE: July 4, 2001

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: EDITORIAL

                    Copyright 2001 Times Publishing Company


                              241 of 302 DOCUMENTS

                         St. Petersburg Times (Florida)

                            July 04, 2001, Wednesday

Pupils explore immigrant experiences

BYLINE: BRIAN MOORE

SECTION: LARGO TIMES; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 563 words

DATELINE: LARGO



They seemed nervous, just as you might expect immigrants hoping to gain
admission into the United States to feel.

Some gasped for air as they stuttered answers to the immigration officers'
stringent questions. Others ran sweaty palms through their hair as they
identified themselves and spoke about their plans in their new country.

It was a scene produced Tuesday by fourth- and fifth-graders at Frontier
Elementary. They were re-enacting events once common at Ellis Island, the New
York Harbor destination for more than 12-million people from overseas seeking a
better life in America in the late  19th and early 20th century.

"Immigration Day" was the culmination of a three-week social studies lesson on
foreign countries and movement to the United States. And the students took the
project very seriously, according to their teacher, Cheryl Sinks, who developed
the project at the year-round school as part of her curriculum about six years
ago.

Squeezing into a makeshift cardboard ship adorned with red, white and blue
stars, 23 students sat dressed in clothes representing countries they had
studied.

The conditions were tight: They sat cramped with no room to stretch. They held
clipboards and took a citizenship test, answering questions about the make-up of
American government.

An adult volunteer - doubling as an immigration officer - called them one-by-one
to answer questions about their native country and their intentions in the
United States. They carried passports made in class and had them marked as they
were approved at each of the three checkpoints.

"We celebrate holidays like Leprechaun days and we step-dance," said 11-year-old
Brian Bowie, acting as Liam O'Brien of Dublin, Ireland. "We do lots of sports
like hurling. I was born there and I lived there for three years until I came
here.

"And we like green," he added, smiling.

Samantha Phimsipasom acted as an immigrant from Greece. She portrayed a
character hoping for higher wages and freedom of speech and religion in the
United States.

Samantha, 11, said she enjoyed the research that went along with the project,
and that she felt bad for the people who actually had to deal with the brutal
conditions on ships crossing the Atlantic Ocean.

As the students learned, some of the ships were filled with more than 2,000
people, and they couldn't bring many personal items. For the project, students
were allowed only a pillow-case full of belongings. All of them brought food,
and some carried pictures of their family, dictionaries for understanding
English or a teddy bear.

Sinks, who has been teaching at Frontier for seven years, said her former
students often ask her if she's still coordinating Immigration Day. They tell
her in letters the project was a fun catalyst in learning about foreign
countries, she said.

"The main thing that I want them to understand about Ellis Island and the
immigrants is how it has really shaped the United States, and the appreciation
of different cultures," Sinks said. "I thought up the project as something more
hands-on. The more that they can take on roles and real-world applications,
they're more likely to remember it."

The question of the day from the students: "If we don't make it into America,
are we going to fail social studies?"

Sinks assured them they wouldn't. Nevertheless, all were approved for admission.


LOAD-DATE: July 4, 2001

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: PHOTO, JIM DAMASKE, (2); Dressed as immigrants for their social studies
class project, students Miles Brumbaugh, Tiffany Morales and Hannah Schauer
stand in line Tuesday to be interviewed by the adult immigration official as
part of the Frontier Elementary class' "Immigration Day."; Frontier Elementary
students sit in cramped quarters on a ship as part of their "Immigration Day."

                    Copyright 2001 Times Publishing Company


                              242 of 302 DOCUMENTS

                         St. Petersburg Times (Florida)

               July 05, 2001, Thursday, 0 South Pinellas Edition

German panel recommends immigration change

SOURCE: Compiled from Times Wires

SECTION: NATIONAL; Pg. 5A

LENGTH: 530 words

DATELINE: BERLIN; PORTADOWN, Northern Ireland



A government-appointed commission recommended that Germany break with tradition
by embracing the idea of immigration and accepting up to 20,000 foreigners
annually as new permanent residents.

The commission report will become the basis for what Chancellor Gerhard
Schroeder's center-left coalition government hopes will be the country's first
comprehensive immigration bill, 45 years after the first Turkish "temporary
guest workers" came to Germany.

Facing a demographic implosion caused by low birthrates, Germany could see its
population of 82-million fall by 25 percent in the next 50 years, according to
various studies. The 21-member panel urged the government to maintain the
country's prosperity by attracting as many as 50,000 skilled foreign workers
annually, using a combination of permanent residence and temporary visas.

After almost 100 years of eschewing immigration, the proposals, combined with
changes last year in the citizenship law, could put immigrants in Germany on
largely the same legal ground as those in the United States, Canada or Britain -
a sweeping change for a country that has long defined itself racially. Until
last year, German citizenship was largely based on blood, and German-born
children and even grandchildren of foreign residents were not automatically
granted German citizenship.

KOHL TAPES: Former Chancellor Helmut Kohl won a court ruling blocking the
release of his conversations that were secretly recorded by East German spies.

Catholic slain in N. Ireland

PORTADOWN, Northern Ireland - Protestant extremists claimed responsibility
Wednesday for slaying a Catholic teenager, as Northern Ireland feared a descent
into more widespread violence over this weekend's disputed Protestant parade in
Portadown.

A government-appointed Parades Commission delayed its final ruling on whether to
bar Protestant Orangemen from marching Sunday through Portadown's hostile
Catholic district.

Many Catholics on Garvaghy Road have stocked up on food and sent their children
away to relatives in anticipation of a standoff.

And in a sign that outlawed anti-Catholic groups intend to fan those fears, a
gunman fatally shot Ciaran Cummings in the nearby town of Antrim - the first
killing of its kind in Northern Ireland for more than a year.

Cummings, 19, was standing on a sidewalk when he was shot several times.

An outlawed group called the Red Hand Defenders claimed responsibility for the
attack.

Elsewhere . . .

MACEDONIAN VIOLENCE: The leaders of Macedonia's major Slavic and Albanian
parties have agreed to talks on reforming the constitution in an effort to end a
four-month rebel insurgency, President Boris Trajkovski said Wednesday.

ZIMBABWE STRIKE: The government played down the effects of a national strike
that paralyzed the economy for a second day.

FAILED BILL AT EU: The European Parliament rejected a bill that would impose
common rules for corporate takeovers in the 15-nation EU.

CONGO PEACE TALKS: Congolese President Joseph Kabila and Ugandan President
Yoweri Museveni held their first face-to-face peace talks in Dar es Salaam,
Tanzania, as part of an effort to end the three-year war in Congo.


LOAD-DATE: July 5, 2001

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: DIGEST

                    Copyright 2001 Times Publishing Company


                              243 of 302 DOCUMENTS

                         St. Petersburg Times (Florida)

                             July 17, 2001, Tuesday

Immigrant loses his battle to cancer

BYLINE: LEON M. TUCKER

SECTION: LARGO TIMES; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 585 words

DATELINE: CLEARWATER



Stevo Saric, the Bosnian immigrant who brought his family to the United States
to escape the violence of war-torn Albania, died Sunday after a three-month
battle with stomach cancer.

When the 47-year-old first fell ill in April, family members grew concerned over
how they would pay bills without Saric's income as a welder.

But after a newspaper story about the family's plight, donations poured in from
across the state.

The donations continue: The cost of today's funeral, at 12:30 p.m. at St. George
Serbian Orthodox Church, 15250 58th St. N in Clearwater, is being picked up by
area businesses.

The family moved to the United States in October 1999 through the National
Refugee Relocation Program, under the auspices of Catholic Charities. When they
arrived, members of Espiritu Santo Catholic Church in Safety Harbor helped them
learn English, find jobs and a new home.

Then in April, Saric got sick and was hospitalized. Tests eventually showed he
had cancer.

For those last months, Saric was confined to an adjustable bed in a back room of
his house where his family held vigil.

Saric's sons Dario and Sasa Saric watched their father slip away. Saric's sight
failed and his alertness faded. His sunken face turned blue.

The 47-year-old, once-athletic family man died in his sleep Sunday morning.

"The house seems more empty now," said son Dario, 17.

Two weeks ago, the family learned it would get some help paying bills. More than
$ 20,000 was raised to help the Sarics.

"It just shows that there are still generous people in the world who think about
others," said wife Fediba Saric, speaking through a translator.

Stevo Saric, who was Serbian, met his Muslim wife in the town of Zenica, Bosnia,
when she was 17.

Within the year the two married, despite serious division because of their
ethnic backgrounds.

But in the former Yugoslavia, slaughter and ethnic cleansing were unleashed
between the Serbs and their Muslim neighbors, dimming hopes of a multiethnic
Eastern Europe.

After years of seeking refuge from ethnic and religious persecution, the family
immigrated to the United States.

Bob George, one of the Espiritu members who had been assisting the family,
helped the Sarics secure a loan to buy a $ 111,000 home in Clearwater.

"It has been one of the greatest joys I've had," he said about helping the
family. "We promised (Stevo) that we would take care of his family, so that is
what we are going to do."

Moss-Feaster Funeral Homes & Cremation Services has donated its services to the
Saric family and agreed to hold the funeral and provide a casket free of charge.

The Cycadia Monument Company in Palm Harbor also donated a headstone to the
family and a plot was donated by Calvary Catholic Cemeteries of Clearwater.

"We had a number of businesses that contributed to this family so their expenses
were very minimal," said Michael Meadows, funeral director and manager of the
Belcher Road Chapel. "We just felt that we wanted to try to help the family in
any way we could."

The total value of the donated services is about $ 7,000, according to Meadows.

And despite experiencing the pain of losing a loved one, the Sarics say they
feel safer now that they have other support.

"Gladly, my father was alive to see the fundraiser," Dario said. "He was happy
and glad that he could leave us knowing we were going to have the chance to live
by ourselves, even though he is not going to be there to support us.

"That brought a lot of happiness to us."


LOAD-DATE: July 17, 2001

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                    Copyright 2001 Times Publishing Company


                              244 of 302 DOCUMENTS

                         St. Petersburg Times (Florida)

                            July 18, 2001, Wednesday

Immigrant loses battle with cancer

BYLINE: LEON M. TUCKER

SECTION: NEIGHBORHOOD TIMES; Pg. 13

LENGTH: 576 words

DATELINE: CLEARWATER



(ran EAST edition)

Stevo Saric, the Bosnian immigrant who brought his family to the United States
to escape the violence of war-torn Albania, died Sunday after a three-month
battle with stomach cancer.

When the 47-year-old first fell ill in April, family members grew concerned
about how they would pay bills without Saric's income as a welder.

But after a newspaper story about the family's plight, donations poured in from
across the state.

The donations continue: The cost of Saric's funeral, which was Tuesday, is being
picked up by area businesses.

The Sarics moved to the United States in October 1999 through the National
Refugee Relocation Program, under the auspices of Catholic Charities. When they
arrived, members of Espiritu Santo Catholic Church in Safety Harbor helped them
learn English, and find jobs and a new home.

Then in April, Saric got sick and was hospitalized. Tests eventually showed he
had cancer.

During his last months, Saric was confined to an adjustable bed in a back room
of his house where his family held vigil.

Saric's sons, Dario and Sasa Saric, watched their father slip away. Saric's
sight failed and his alertness faded. His sunken face turned blue.

The once-athletic, 47-year-old family man died in his sleep Sunday morning.

"The house seems more empty now," said Dario, 17.

Two weeks ago, the family learned it would get some help paying bills. More than
$ 20,000 was raised to help the Sarics.

"It just shows that there are still generous people in the world who think about
others," said wife Fediba Saric, speaking through a translator.

Stevo Saric, who was Serbian, met his Muslim wife in the town of Zenica, Bosnia,
when she was 17.

Within the year the two married, despite serious division because of their
ethnic backgrounds.

But in the former Yugoslavia, slaughter and ethnic cleansing were unleashed
between the Serbs and their Muslim neighbors, dimming hopes of a multiethnic
Eastern Europe.

After years of seeking refuge from ethnic and religious persecution, the family
immigrated to the United States.

Bob George, one of the Espiritu members who assisted the family, helped the
Sarics secure a loan to buy a $ 111,000 home in Clearwater.

"It has been one of the greatest joys I've had," he said about helping the
family. "We promised (Stevo) that we would take care of his family, so that is
what we are going to do."

Moss-Feaster Funeral Homes & Cremation Services has donated its services to the
Saric family and agreed to hold the funeral and provide a casket free of charge.

The Cycadia Monument Co. in Palm Harbor also donated a headstone to the family
and a plot was donated by Calvary Catholic Cemeteries of Clearwater.

"We had a number of businesses that contributed to this family, so their
expenses were very minimal," said Michael Meadows, funeral director and manager
of the Belcher Road Chapel. "We just felt that we wanted to try to help the
family in any way we could."

The total value of the donated services is about $ 7,000, according to Meadows.

And despite experiencing the pain of losing a loved one, the Sarics say they
feel safer now that they have other support.

"Gladly, my father was alive to see the fundraiser," Dario said. "He was happy
and glad that he could leave us knowing we were going to have the chance to live
by ourselves, even though he is not going to be there to support us.

"That brought a lot of happiness to us."


LOAD-DATE: July 18, 2001

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                    Copyright 2001 Times Publishing Company


                              245 of 302 DOCUMENTS

                         St. Petersburg Times (Florida)

             September 01, 2001, Saturday, 0 South Pinellas Edition

Australia's indecency

SECTION: EDITORIAL; EDITORIALS; Pg. 14A

LENGTH: 347 words



Australia's government disgraced itself when it failed to offer immediate
humanitarian aid to a Norwegian cargo ship carrying hundreds of refugees, most
of them Afghans, anchored off Australia's Christmas Island. Prime Minister John
Howard, who sent heavily armed guards onto the already overcrowded ship
Wednesday, has refused entry to the 438 migrants on board, despite pleas from
Norway's prime minister, the U.N. High Commissioner for Human Rights and other
international leaders. Howard, in the midst of a tight re-election, apparently
calculated that looking tough on immigration was more important than displaying
basic human decency.

Indonesia's government also has warned it will use force to prevent the cargo
ship Tampa, whose crew rescued the immigrants from a sinking Indonesian boat,
from returning there. However, Australia, unlike Indonesia, has a tradition of
respect for human rights. In any case, the international convention on refugees
provides that they be given entry to the nearest port, which is Australian
territory.

Howard could have acted humanely and still protected Australia's interests.
Giving the occupants of the Tampa temporary haven would not have committed
Australia's government to giving all of them permanent residency. The ultimate
fate of the refugees should be determined once they are off the high seas and in
secure surroundings.

Australia's frustration with illegal human smuggling is understandable.
Christmas Island, Australia's most remote territory, has become an inviting
entry point for organized smuggling rings, many of which operate out of
Indonesia. Still, those on the Tampa shouldn't be held hostage to that dispute.
If it had dealt more humanely with the refugees from the start, Australia's
government would have stronger moral standing in pressing Indonesia, U.N.
officials and other international authorities for more serious measures to
counter illegal smuggling. Instead, Prime Minister Howard has exploited a human
tragedy that will leave a stain on Australia's history long after he leaves
office.


LOAD-DATE: September 1, 2001

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: EDITORIAL

                    Copyright 2001 Times Publishing Company


                              246 of 302 DOCUMENTS

                         St. Petersburg Times (Florida)

             September 04, 2001, Tuesday, 0 South Pinellas Edition

Cuban immigrants come ashore over weekend

SOURCE: From wire reports

SECTION: CITY & STATE; AROUND THE STATE; Pg. 5B

LENGTH: 302 words

DATELINE: KEY LARGO; IMMOKALEE



Fifty-two Cuban immigrants who said they paid smugglers $ 8,000 each came ashore
in southern Florida over the holiday weekend and were taken into custody by U.S.
Border Patrol agents.

Twenty-two Cubans - 12 men, seven women, two girls and boy - arrived Monday in
northern Key Largo in good health. They told the border patrol they left Sagua
La Grande on Sunday night in a 30-foot gray boat.

On Sunday, 30 other Cubans reached land in central Key Largo. The 16 men, six
women, five girls and three boys were discovered in mangroves near John
Pennekamp Park.

No smugglers or vessels were in custody from either group, the border patrol
said.

Baby found abandoned

in Collier trash can

IMMOKALEE - A newborn girl found covered with ants and crying in a garbage can
was hospitalized Monday while Collier County sheriff's investigators tried to
learn who abandoned her.

The baby was listed in fair condition at North Collier Hospital, a hospital
spokeswoman said.

Deputies had no immediate leads but were hoping somebody might come forward with
information.

"No one saw who put the baby in the garbage can. Whoever dumped it really
intended for the baby to die," said Tina Osceola, spokeswoman with the sheriff's
office. "Hopefully, people will talk, and we'll be able to find something out
that way."

According to a Sheriff's Office report, a local resident who heard a noise in a
garbage can Sunday went to take a closer look, and realized it was a baby
crying.

"The baby was found underneath trash and covered in ants," Osceola said.

That witness, whose name was not immediately released by the Sheriff's Office,
picked up the infant and started to take it to the Immokalee fire station when
deputies arrived, administered first aid and took the baby to the hospital.

- From wire reports


LOAD-DATE: September 5, 2001

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: DIGEST

                    Copyright 2001 Times Publishing Company


                              247 of 302 DOCUMENTS

                         St. Petersburg Times (Florida)

             September 16, 2001, Sunday, 4 State / Suncoast Edition

More arrests coming, U.S. says

SOURCE: Compiled from Times Wires

SECTION: NATIONAL; AFTERSHOCKS: INVESTIGATION; Pg. 7A

LENGTH: 1331 words

DATELINE: WASHINGTON



Federal prosecutors issued a second warrant Saturday for the arrest of a person
believed to have information about the deadly attacks on the World Trade Center
and the Pentagon.

Authorities said only that the individual could be among 25 people now being
held by the Immigration and Naturalization Service for immigration violations.

"There are going to be more," said Justice Department spokeswoman Mindy Tucker,
referring to the two "material witness" warrants.

Meanwhile, a Deerfield Beach motel owner said Saturday that he found Boeing 757
manuals, three illustrated martial arts books and an 8-inch stack of East Coast
flight maps while cleaning out a room that had been used by one of the suspected
hijackers two days before he flew into the World Trade Center.

Marwan Al-Shehhi and another Arab man spent a week at the Panther Motel, and
they had a constant visitor, owner Richard Surma said Saturday. Surma said he
recognized Al-Shehhi from FBI photos, but not the other two men.

Of the 19 hijackers, at least 15 have Florida ties, and seven of them were
believed to be pilots. Al-Shehhi, who trained at two Florida flight schools, was
aboard the United Boeing 767 that crashed into the south tower Tuesday.

So far, 25 people arrested for immigration violations are being questioned by
federal investigators in connection with the attacks that left thousands dead
Tuesday.

All 25 have been interviewed by the FBI at least once, Tucker said. None have
been charged in the sweeping investigation of the terrorist attacks. Tucker
would not divulge where or why the individuals were being held.

Two of the 25 being interviewed were seized by federal authorities on an Amtrak
train in Fort Worth, Texas, on Wednesday, according to an NBC News report.

Ayoub Ali Khan, 51, and Mohammed Jaweed Azmath, 47, were flown to New York to be
interviewed by FBI agents there. During a search of the train, investigators
discovered that the men had box cutters, hair dye and an undisclosed sum of
money.

The hijackers took control of the planes using knives typically used to cut
cardboard boxes.

The pair apprehended in Texas had been on a TWA flight from Newark, N.J., en
route to San Antonio, Texas, Tuesday morning when the attacks occurred. The
plane was grounded in St. Louis after the attacks. Khan and Azmath continued to
Texas by train.

Some of the 25 people being interviewed are cooperating with authorities, Tucker
said. She declined to characterize their importance to the investigation.

More information developed Saturday about the hijackers.

Newsweek reported that the FBI was on the trail of two of the suspected
hijackers little more than two weeks before the attacks.

Operating on a tip from the CIA that the men were connected to Osama bin Laden's
terrorist network, FBI agents began looking at Khalid Al-Midhar and Salem
Alhamzi, two of the suspected 19 hijackers named by the Justice Department, the
weekly magazine reports in Monday's edition.

Al-Midhar was captured on a surveillance videotape in Malaysia at a meeting with
one of the suspects in the terrorist bombing of the USS Cole in the Yemeni port
of Aden, Newsweek said.

The bombing killed 17 American sailors. Bin Laden, the wealthy Saudi exile now
living under the protection of the Afghanistan government, is the chief suspect
in that attack as well as the attacks in New York and Washington.

Authorities have found and interviewed some of the 100 additional people being
sought for questioning in the case, which has the nickname "Penttbom."

Investigators were pursuing about 1,000 leads in Florida, said Judy Orihuela, an
FBI spokeswoman in Miami.

Hundreds of FBI agents are rebuilding the history of the hijackers from a paper
trail of flight school records; house, apartment and hotel rental records;
credit card receipts; and interviews with pilots, landlords, neighbors and
bartenders.

Surma, the motel owner, said that he kept many of the items from the room that
had been occupied by Al-Shehhi and called a sheriff's deputy Wednesday, when
officers began scouring the oceanfront strip of small motels 12 miles north of
Fort Lauderdale. The FBI quickly followed, interviewing guests and lifting
fingerprints from the room.

Al-Shehhi checked out last Sunday without taking a three-ring binder full of
handwritten notes, an English-German dictionary, an airplane fuel tester, a
protractor, tote bag, aircraft manuals, maps and books, Surma said.

Attorney General John Ashcroft told reporters Saturday that the investigation
was yielding promising results.

"We are beginning to understand the ways in which this terrible crime was
committed," Ashcroft told reporters at Camp David, where he was meeting with
President Bush, FBI director Robert Mueller and other high level government
officials.

The Joint Terrorism Task Force arrested a man Friday evening in New York. He had
been questioned Thursday at John F. Kennedy International Airport after
authorities said he was found to have a fake pilot's license.

Officials said the man was associated with the brother of bin Laden and is being
held under a material witness warrant like the one issued for the second suspect
on Saturday.

Such warrants allow authorities to keep someone in custody without charging them
with a crime if that person is considered important to an investigation.

There were also these developments Saturday:

 An FBI spokesman, Bill Crowley, said that the cockpit voice recorder found at
the Pennsylvania crash site was in "fairly good condition" but had been sent to
the manufacturer for help in extracting information after officials with the
National Transportation Safety Board could not get sound from the device.

 The voice recorder found Friday in the Pentagon rubble was described by
authorities as yielding no information because it was severely burned in the
crash. Recording devices from the planes in New York have not been found.

 Authorities were searching for a Muslim cleric, Moataz Al-Hallak, who left the
northeastern United States on Monday headed for Texas, one day before the
attacks, the Associated Press reported. He was questioned by prosecutors in the
U.S. Embassy bombings in Kenya and Tanzania, which were linked to bin Laden.

 Federal investigators played down reports aired on TV networks Friday night
that Boston, Atlanta and Richmond had been targeted by terrorists for
unspecified attacks. As to credible evidence that those cities were targets, a
Justice Department official said, the agency had not reached that point in the
investigation.

 NBC reported that U.S. officials are investigating an anonymous letter sent to
a Cayman Islands radio station on Aug. 29, asserting that three Afghan nationals
who had entered the islands were agents of bin Laden organizing a terrorist
attack against the United States. The station forwarded the letter to Cayman
officials on Sept. 6, who treated it as speculation. But Cayman authorities have
since interviewed the unnamed letter writer and are holding three Afghans on
immigration charges.

 An Italian newspaper, Corriere della Serra, reported that the FBI is
investigating the possibility that bin Laden associates tried to profit from the
disaster by short-selling stocks in reinsurance companies before the attack.

 MSNBC reported on its Web site that a senior U.S. government official said the
FBI is seeking nine suspected plotters who may have fled to Mexico the day
before the attacks. Spokesmen for the attorney general's office and Interpol in
Mexico, contacted on Saturday, said they have no information to confirm the
report. The Mexican government announced earlier that it had received from the
United States a list of nine names of suspects. A Mexican official said Saturday
that since then Mexico has received additional names from the FBI and is
cooperating with U.S. authorities.

- Information from Cox News Service, Associated Press and Boston Globe was used
in this report.


LOAD-DATE: September 17, 2001

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                    Copyright 2001 Times Publishing Company


                              248 of 302 DOCUMENTS

                         St. Petersburg Times (Florida)

              September 16, 2001, Sunday, 0 South Pinellas Edition

More arrests coming, U.S. says

SOURCE: Compiled from Times Wires

SECTION: NATIONAL; AFTERSHOCKS: INVESTIGATION; Pg. 7A

LENGTH: 1314 words

DATELINE: WASHINGTON



Federal prosecutors issued a second warrant Saturday for the arrest of a person
believed to have information about the deadly attacks on the World Trade Center
and the Pentagon.

Authorities said only that the individual could be among 25 people now being
held by the Immigration and Naturalization Service for immigration violations.

"There are going to be more," said Justice Department spokeswoman Mindy Tucker,
referring to the two "material witness" warrants.

Meanwhile, a Deerfield Beach motel owner said Saturday that he found Boeing 757
manuals, three illustrated martial arts books and an 8-inch stack of East Coast
flight maps while cleaning out a room that had been used by one of the suspected
hijackers two days before he flew into the World Trade Center.

Marwan Al-Shehhi and another Arab man spent a week at the Panther Motel, and
they had a constant visitor, owner Richard Surma said Saturday. Surma said he
recognized Al-Shehhi from FBI photos, but not the other two men.

Of the 19 hijackers, at least 15 have Florida ties, and seven of them were
believed to be pilots. Al-Shehhi, who trained at two Florida flight schools, was
aboard the United Boeing 767 that crashed into the south tower Tuesday.

So far, 25 people arrested for immigration violations are being questioned by
federal investigators in connection with the attacks that left thousands dead
Tuesday.

All 25 have been interviewed by the FBI at least once, Tucker said. None have
been charged in the sweeping investigation of the terrorist attacks. Tucker
would not divulge where or why the individuals were being held.

Two of the 25 being interviewed were seized by federal authorities on an Amtrak
train in Fort Worth, Texas, on Wednesday, according to an NBC News report.

Ayoub Ali Khan, 51, and Mohammed Jaweed Azmath, 47, were flown to New York to be
interviewed by FBI agents there. During a search of the train, investigators
discovered that the men had box cutters, hair dye and an undisclosed sum of
money.

The hijackers took control of the planes using knives typically used to cut
cardboard boxes.

The pair apprehended in Texas had been on a TWA flight from Newark, N.J., en
route to San Antonio, Texas, Tuesday morning when the attacks occurred. The
plane was grounded in St. Louis after the attacks. Khan and Azmath continued to
Texas by train.

Some of the 25 people being interviewed are cooperating with authorities, Tucker
said. She declined to characterize their importance to the investigation.

More information developed Saturday about the hijackers.

Newsweek reported that the FBI was on the trail of two of the suspected
hijackers little more than two weeks before the attacks.

Operating on a tip from the CIA that the men were connected to Osama bin Laden's
terrorist network, FBI agents began looking at Khalid Al-Midhar and Salem
Alhamzi, two of the suspected 19 hijackers named by the Justice Department, the
weekly magazine reports in Monday's edition.

Al-Midhar was captured on a surveillance videotape in Malaysia at a meeting with
one of the suspects in the terrorist bombing of the USS Cole in the Yemeni port
of Aden, Newsweek said.

The bombing killed 17 American sailors. Bin Laden, the wealthy Saudi exile now
living under the protection of the Afghanistan government, is the chief suspect
in that attack as well as the attacks in New York and Washington.

Authorities have found and interviewed some of the 100 additional people being
sought for questioning in the case, which has the nickname "Penttbom."

Investigators were pursuing about 1,000 leads in Florida, said Judy Orihuela, an
FBI spokeswoman in Miami.

Hundreds of FBI agents are rebuilding the history of the hijackers from a paper
trail of flight school records; house, apartment and hotel rental records;
credit card receipts; and interviews with pilots, landlords, neighbors and
bartenders.

Surma, the motel owner, said that he kept many of the items from the room that
had been occupied by Al-Shehhi and called a sheriff's deputy Wednesday, when
officers began scouring the oceanfront strip of small motels 12 miles north of
Fort Lauderdale. The FBI quickly followed, interviewing guests and lifting
fingerprints from the room.

Al-Shehhi checked out last Sunday without taking a three-ring binder full of
handwritten notes, an English-German dictionary, an airplane fuel tester, a
protractor, tote bag, aircraft manuals, maps and books, Surma said.

Attorney General John Ashcroft told reporters Saturday that the investigation
was yielding promising results.

"We are beginning to understand the ways in which this terrible crime was
committed," Ashcroft told reporters at Camp David, where he was meeting with
President Bush, FBI director Robert Mueller and other high level government
officials.

The Joint Terrorism Task Force arrested a man Friday evening in New York. He had
been questioned Thursday at John F. Kennedy International Airport after
authorities said he was found to have a fake pilot's license.

Officials said the man was associated with the brother of bin Laden and is being
held under a material witness warrant like the one issued for the second suspect
on Saturday.

Such warrants allow authorities to keep someone in custody without charging them
with a crime if that person is considered important to an investigation.

There were also these developments Saturday:

 The Chicago Tribune reported that Mohamed Atta Atta, who had lived in Florida
with Marwan Al-Shehhi, made his way up the Eastern Seaboard. After Tuesday's
attack, police found Atta's Grand Prix in the parking lot of Boston's Logan
International Airport.

But that's not where Atta boarded his first flight Sept. 11. The day before, he
rented a Nissan Altima at Logan and drove north, to Maine. In Maine,
investigators believe that Atta and Al-Shehhi met up with other hijackers who
came into the United States from across the Canadian border.

Canadian authorities are working with the FBI to examine passenger manifests of
the ferry that runs between Yarmouth, Nova Scotia, and Portland, Maine.

They believe some of the hijackers made their way into the U.S. on the ferry,
just a day or two before the attack.

The morning of the assaults, Portland airport security cameras clearly captured
Atta and Al-Shehhi passing through the security check, police said. Each carried
a shoulder bag. They boarded a 6 a.m. U.S. Airways flight to Boston, and would
not have to pass through security again.

After the attacks, police found Atta's red Grand Prix in the parking lot of
Logan Airport and the rented Altima in Portland. They also found Atta's bag,
which was checked in Portland but didn't make it onto the suicide flight. The
bag contained a suicide note and a videotape on how to fly the Boeing 767.

 An FBI spokesman, Bill Crowley, said that the cockpit voice recorder found at
the Pennsylvania crash site was in "fairly good condition" but had been sent to
the manufacturer for help in extracting information after officials with the
National Transportation Safety Board could not get sound from the device.

 The voice recorder found Friday in the Pentagon rubble was described by
authorities as yielding no information because it was severely burned in the
crash. Recording devices from the planes in New York have not been found.

 Authorities were searching for a Muslim cleric, Moataz Al-Hallak, who left the
northeastern United States on Monday headed for Texas, the Associated Press
reported. He was questioned by prosecutors in the U.S. Embassy bombings in Kenya
and Tanzania.

 Federal investigators played down reports aired on TV networks Friday night
that Boston, Atlanta and Richmond had been targeted by terrorists for
unspecified attacks.

- Information from Cox News Service, Associated Press, Boston Globe and Chicago
Tribune was used in this report.


LOAD-DATE: September 17, 2001

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                    Copyright 2001 Times Publishing Company


                              249 of 302 DOCUMENTS

                         St. Petersburg Times (Florida)

             September 18, 2001, Tuesday, 1 North Pinellas Edition

Driver's license policies now under scrutiny

BYLINE: ALISA ULFERTS; STEVE BOUSQUET

SECTION: METRO & STATE; AMERICA RESPONDS; Pg. 1B

LENGTH: 1025 words

DATELINE: TALLAHASSEE



Florida's system of issuing driver's licenses is coming under close scrutiny
after officials learned that as many as 13 suspected hijackers in last week's
deadly attack had obtained state licenses and identification cards.

State officials have questioned Florida's law that allows foreigners use a
common federal immigration form as a primary form of identification to obtain a
driver's license. The form, an arrival-departure record, lists the date an
immigrant arrived in the United States and the date his or her stay expires.

"You fill it out, you give them a copy and you keep a copy," Assistant Statewide
Prosecutor Thomas Sadaka said of the I-94 immigration form. "Florida is the only
state in the nation that will accept the I-94."

As many as 13 of the 19 Middle Eastern men listed in passenger manifests as
having been aboard the four doomed jetliners had Florida licenses or ID cards
that aided their frequent movements around the state. Eight of the 13 men got
their licenses or IDs since May 1, including one who got a license after being
ticketed by a police officer for not having one.

Whether any of the 13 suspected hijackers used the I-94 to help them get Florida
identification is unclear. Officials with the Florida Department of Highway
Safety and Motor Vehicles had promised to release copies of the applications the
men filled out when they applied for the licenses, but they changed their minds
Monday.

Department spokesman Robert Sanchez said officials reached a consensus that they
have to "turn off the faucet" of information.

"As the investigation continues, you may find things the field agents don't want
released," Sanchez said.

Those applications would have indicated what proof of identity and legality the
men used to get the state documents.

David Myers, a national expert on false identification within the state Division
of Alcoholic Beverages and Tobacco, said the state needs to look at the
documents it accepts as primary and secondary proof of identity.

By accepting the I-94 form, Myers said Florida is different from other states in
another way: "Most states require that you maintain a permanent residency,"
Myers said. And while immigration officials at the point of entry can take as
much time as they want to review immigration documents for authenticity, Myers
said motor vehicle workers have seconds to decide or risk provoking the rest of
the long line at the counter.

"People don't necessarily need a Florida driver's license. Basically, they're
trying to create themselves an identity," Myers said.

He won't be surprised to see changes in how Florida issues driver's licenses
when the Legislature meets again. A task force is examining driver's licenses.

"Recommendations for tightening up on the regulations for driver's license
requirements were suggested," Myers said.

Sadaka agreed with Myers that there are problems with Florida's use of the I-94
form. But compared to some states that simply allow one person to verify the
identity of another, Sadaka said Florida stacks up.

"On the whole, we do a pretty good job," Sadaka said.

The motor vehicle agency is overseen by Gov. Jeb Bush and the six statewide
elected officials who make up the Florida Cabinet.

On Monday, Bush and Tim Moore, commissioner of the Florida Department of Law
Enforcement, said the state has begun a "top-to-bottom" review of all of its
security procedures - including the forms of ID needed to get a driver's
license.

"We want to examine everything, including the processes used to get a driver's
license and an identification card," Moore said. "Not just in this instance, but
across the range of concerns that not only law enforcement has but some
businesses have."

A privacy and technology task force Bush appointed discussed driver's licenses
last year but focused most of its attention on identity theft by criminals who
want false IDs.

"One of the things we talked about was how easy it was to get a driver's license
and identity," said task force member Barbara Petersen, executive director of
the First Amendment Foundation.

Drivers License Division head Sandra Lambert said she thinks Florida isn't the
only state that accepts the immigration form but was unable to name others that
do. "Other states copied our law because they were so much impressed with our
law," Lambert said.

As for whether the 13 suspected hijackers were legally issued their Florida
identification, Lambert said the applications "met the letter of the law." When
asked how she could assure the public of that without releasing the records,
Lambert said: "I think I just did."

- Times researcher Deirdre Morrow contributed to this report.


LOAD-DATE: September 18, 2001

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                    Copyright 2001 Times Publishing Company


                              250 of 302 DOCUMENTS

                         St. Petersburg Times (Florida)

              September 21, 2001, Friday, 0 South Pinellas Edition

Naturalized citizens pose problem for investigators

BYLINE: MARY JACOBY

SECTION: NATIONAL; AMERICA RESPONDS: INVESTIGATION; Pg. 4A

LENGTH: 615 words



When a Texas flight school instructor named Essam al Ridi delivered a used cargo
jet to a dusty airfield in Sudan in 1993, a friend took him to see the man who
had bought the plane.

It was Osama bin Laden.

"We just had dinner and chatted," al Ridi testified in federal court last March.
"I gave the keys of the plane to Osama bin Laden."

Al Ridi and his friend, a former Texas tire shop employee and bin Laden personal
secretary, Wadih El Hage, are naturalized American citizens.

And both have been deeply implicated as operatives in bin Laden's terrorist
activities.

As naturalized citizens, they could not have been rounded up on immigration
violations the way federal authorities are holding dozens of Muslim foreigners
for questioning after the Sept. 11 terrorist attacks.

"There is a gap between someone who's violated their immigration status and a
naturalized American citizen," said Juliette Kayyem, a member of the National
Commission on Terrorism and former Justice Department lawyer.

While immigration violators can be detained with relative ease, officers have to
meet a higher standard of evidence to hold American citizens for any length of
time.

"We've always viewed naturalized citizens as having the same rights and
guarantees as any American citizen" unless they have been charged, Kayyem said.

If the past is any guide, American citizens are likely to be found among bin
Laden's foot soldiers.

In May, for example, a federal jury in Manhattan convicted four men in
connection with the 1998 bombings of U.S. embassies in Kenya and Tanzania that
killed 224 people.

One of them was El Hage, a naturalized American from Lebanon. During his trial,
two other naturalized citizens testified about their extensive roles in the bin
Laden network.

They were al Ridi, the Egyptian-born flight instructor who had settled in Texas,
and Ali Mohamed, another Egyptian native who was convicted in October 2000 on
five counts of plotting terrorist attacks for bin Laden.

Mohamed, a former U.S. Army sergeant, is cooperating with the government in
hopes of reducing his sentence. Al Ridi gave his testimony under a grant of
immunity from prosecution.

Citing a threat to domestic security, Attorney General John Ashcroft on Tuesday
announced expanded federal powers for holding people on immigration violations.
The rules allow authorities to constitutionally cast a wide net in the hunt for
terrorists.

Before that, the government had to release suspects after 24 hours if they had
not been charged with a crime or violation, such as staying in the United States
beyond the terms of their visas.

Now, people picked up on immigration violations can be held indefinitely "in the
event of emergency or other extraordinary circumstance" without being charged,
the rules say.

Federal authorities investigating the attacks have arrested 115 people on
immigration violations, Justice Department spokeswoman Mindy Tucker said
Wednesday. Investigators "want to talk to" about 190 other people, she said,
declining to say whether U.S. citizens were in that group.

On Thursday, Tucker said the department would no longer release information on
the subject.

If there are naturalized citizens whom law enforcement wants to question, the
challenge will be rooting them out in a constitutional manner. That task is all
the more urgent because more lives could be lost if future terrorist plots are
not quickly upended.

"If there's no legal means to hold you, there's no legal means to hold you,"
said Jonathan Weiner, a former deputy assistant secretary of state for
international law. "It's potentially a problem. You can't arrest somebody
without probable cause."


LOAD-DATE: September 21, 2001

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                    Copyright 2001 Times Publishing Company


                              251 of 302 DOCUMENTS

                         St. Petersburg Times (Florida)

              September 30, 2001, Sunday, 0 South Pinellas Edition

Canada seeks better border security

BYLINE: JIM FOX

SECTION: NATIONAL; THE CANADA REPORT; Pg. 2A

LENGTH: 643 words



Canada is looking at measures to increase security at the U.S. border and to
tighten immigration and refugee policies.

American politicians and U.S. newspapers have suggested Canada is becoming a
haven for terrorists, making it easy for them to slip across the 4,000-mile,
largely undefended, border.

On Monday, Prime Minister Jean Chretien discussed with President Bush how Canada
and the United States can develop joint policies for immigration and border
crossings. Chretien and party leaders also visited the destruction in New York
City on Saturday.

Officials say there have been no confirmed links between Canada and the
terrorism attacks in the United States, but several people who lived temporarily
in Toronto are being questioned.

Toronto's Globe and Mail said Florida newspapers suggested Canada is a nest of
terrorist activity, yet the state "was home to several of the terrorists as they
prepared for their assault." The overwhelming majority of illegal immigrants
entering the United States arrive from Mexico, yet U.S. Rep. Lamar Smith,
R-Texas, said Canada has the easiest border to cross, the Globe article added.

While more than 9,000 agents and inspectors watch the border with Mexico, only
732 watch the Canada border.

Bailout considered for airlines

The Canadian government is considering a bailout for struggling Air Canada and
other airlines of around $ 2-billion (Canadian) in cash and loan guarantees.

Air Canada is cutting 5,000 jobs and 20 percent of flights while aircraft maker
Bombardier is cutting 3,800 jobs, about 2,700 of them in Canada, because of a
loss of orders.

Names in the news

 Single red roses - a trademark of former Prime Minister Pierre Trudeau - were
left Friday at his family crypt near Montreal. The charismatic Trudeau died of
cancer at age 80 one year ago.

 Ontario Premier Mike Harris wants to reconcile with Janet Harris, his wife of
25 years. They separated soon after the 1999 election and she moved back to
North Bay with their two children. The premier had been seeing Sharon Dunn, a
former TV newscaster, who accompanied him on business trips to China, Russia and
within Canada.

 Marc Garneau, Canada's first man in space, has been chosen president of the
Canadian Space Agency. Garneau, 51, of Quebec City will succeed Mac Evans in
November.

Facts and figures

Canada's dollar is nearing record lows, closing Friday at 63.35 cents U.S. while
the American greenback returned $ 1.5785 Canadian before bank exchange fees. The
lowest close was 63.31 U.S. cents in August 1998.

Stock markets recovered somewhat with the Toronto Stock Exchange 300 Index at
6,838 points on Friday while the Canadian Venture index was 2,839 points.

The Bank of Canada key interest rate of 3.75 percent and the prime-lending rate
of 5.25 percent were unchanged.

Lotto 6-49: (Wednesday) 2, 6, 12, 17, 39 and 47; bonus 8. (Sept. 22) 10, 19, 27,
29, 33 and 36; bonus 23.

Regional briefs

 Alberta medical regulators have made no decision whether to allow private
clinics to perform major surgery. The Alberta College of Physicians and Surgeons
has concerns about patient care, costs and waiting lists that need to be
discussed. Health-care advocates say private facilities drain resources from the
public system.

 British Columbia Premier Gordon Campbell is expected to ask for budget cuts
ranging from 20 to 50 percent in government departments. His Liberals won 77 of
the 79 seats in the Legislature in last spring's election on a promise to tame
spending while maintaining support for health care and education.

 The Ontario government is getting back into public transit by spending $
3-billion over 10 years to make improvements and take over the costs of the GO
commuter trains. The Conservatives turned over public transit costs to
municipalities in a controversial plan in 1998.


LOAD-DATE: October 1, 2001

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                    Copyright 2001 Times Publishing Company


                              252 of 302 DOCUMENTS

                         St. Petersburg Times (Florida)

              October 06, 2001, Saturday, 0 South Pinellas Edition

INS adjusts to role in terrorism fight

BYLINE: MARY JACOBY

SECTION: NATIONAL; AMERICA RESPONDS: IMMIGRATION; Pg. 1A

LENGTH: 1296 words

DATELINE: BALLSTON, Va.



Sean Jad should have been in Boston at his computer science classes. Instead,
the 27-year-old student from Morocco was standing Tuesday in a federal office in
suburban Washington, counting out $ 5,000 in crisp $ 100 bills.

Jad had come to bail out his cousins, Faical Chafouk and Mohamed Oushain, jailed
for three weeks by the Immigration and Naturalization Service for taking jobs in
a pizza parlor, a violation of the terms of their student visas.

The real reason for their detention, of course, was law enforcement's dragnet
for Arabs and Muslims cast after the Sept. 11 terrorist attacks. But when asked
if he was angry about the ethnic profiling that had snared his cousins, Jad
said, "I am, and I'm not."

A part of him felt sympathy for the predicament of law enforcement authorities,
especially the INS. "I think they're doing their job for the safety of the
people. They just don't know what's going on right now," Jad said.

Three weeks after the worst terrorist attack ever on U.S. soil, the INS - one of
the most maligned agencies in the federal government - has been garnering
generally good reviews for its procedures in the aftermath of the crisis.

Much criticized in the past for its slow processing of immigration papers and
often abusive treatment of asylum seekers and foreign visitors, the agency now
seems to be getting the benefit of the doubt as it finds a new footing in a
changed world.

Syed Hyder, the lawyer for the Moroccan students, said his clients had nothing
to do with terrorism but had been swept up in events. "It's purely an
Arab-profiling situation. It's very unusual to hold them for something like
this, no bond."

Still, he said, the backlash was worse in 1979, when there were American
hostages in Tehran, and authorities in the United States increased their
scrutiny of Iranian students here.

"Fortunately it hasn't gone that far this time, and I think it's because of the
stand the president has taken from day one against racial profiling," Hyder
said.

As one of the nation's first lines of defense against would-be foreign
terrorists, the INS is playing a central role in new law enforcement strategies.

With 34,000 employees in 33 domestic and 33 overseas offices, the agency's
duties include guarding the borders, deporting criminal aliens and fighting
immigration fraud. It also conducts naturalization and asylum interviews, grants
permanent residency and issues green cards.

Undocumented workers usually seek to avoid the INS. But on Friday, with
officials suspecting that perhaps hundreds of undocumented workers perished in
the World Trade Center attacks, INS Commissioner James Ziglar said the
government would not punish anyone who could help provide an accurate count of
the missing.

"I want to personally urge the immigrant community to come forward, and assure
everyone that INS will not seek immigration status information," Ziglar said in
a statement.

Meantime, the INS bureaucracy is grinding as usual, lawyers say.

Applications for naturalization, permanent residency, asylum and work permits
are proceeding apace, they say, even as the INS conducts a routine annual audit
of petitions.

During the audit, the agency is adding bar codes to documents to keep better
track of petitions, an action that had been planned but became a higher priority
after the attacks.

Attorneys who belong to the American Immigration Lawyers Association in
Washington are reporting that business from Middle Easterners has slowed
dramatically, said Crystal Williams, the association's INS liaison.

"Anecdotally, we're hearing from members that clients from the Middle East are
calling and saying, "Stop work on our case' " for temporary work and student
visas, Williams said. "People from the Middle East are not trying to get into
the country right now."

Indeed, State Department figures show a 49 percent decrease in the number of
visa applications from Morocco, Egypt, Israel, Lebanon, Syria, Jordan, Iran and
Iraq in the two weeks after the attacks compared with the two weeks before.

Worldwide, the decrease in visa applications is 15 percent for the same time.
But fears that the United States will make it harder to obtain a visa haven't
been borne out yet, said Paul Virtue, an immigration lawyer in Washington.

"We did have some clients who were concerned about attending these (visa)
interviews at U.S. embassies abroad, but we haven't heard of any problems," said
Virtue, a former INS general counsel.

State Department figures show no increase in the rate of visa refusals, either
from the Middle East or worldwide.

The most marked changes in INS procedures have been in airports, where the
agency is on "alert status one," its highest state of readiness.

About 200 of 9,500 border agents were temporarily reassigned to airport security
duties, although most of those agents are now returning to their regular posts
as the National Guard and other security officers are deployed, INS spokesman
Greg Gagne said.

Immigration lawyers say their clients report seeing INS agents at gates for
international flights, checking identification of passengers as they hand in
boarding passes to airline personnel.

There has been particular scrutiny for passengers traveling to Canada, with
reports that Arabs and people of Middle Eastern extraction are facing extra
questioning about their destinations, their reason for being in the United
States and their contacts.

Rodney Germaine, an INS spokesman in Miami, denied reports of racial profiling.
"Our actions have nothing to do with race, religion or nationality," he said.

But an INS spokesman in Washington, Bill Strassberger, acknowledged that there
are gray areas, at least in terms of INS detention policies.

"Right now the circumstances are a little bit different," he said.
"Realistically, all the people who have been held on immigration charges, some
of them probably have nothing more than immigration violations."

On Thursday the INS was detaining about 150 foreigners rounded up after Sept. 11
on immigration infractions, a number that fluctuates as some people are released
and new people are detained.

Some Middle Easterners who were in detention before the attacks and were set to
be released have found freedom delayed.

Julie Ferguson, a lawyer with Bander, Fox-Isicoff and Associates, a Miami law
firm, said a client from Iraq who is seeking asylum has been held since July 31
after arriving in the U.S. without a passport.

On Sept. 10, the day before the hijackings, the INS indicated it was preparing
to release him pending an FBI background check, Ferguson said. "Now I'm not
going to be able to get him out at all," she said. "Meanwhile, all the guys from
Albania and Moldova are being let go."

As for the Moroccan students, they appeared Tuesday before an immigration judge
in a courtroom near Washington, via video-conferencing from an INS jail in
Farmville, Va. They wore orange jump suits and leaned toward an off-screen
microphone to speak.

"Thank you, your honor," Chafouk said after bail was set.

Afterward Jad, Chafouk's sister and another cousin left the courtroom with
attorney Hyder to post bail.

At the bail payment office, his clients gathered around a chair to count out
their $ 100 bills. They were in a hurry: It was a four-hour drive to the jail in
rural Virginia and a 14-hour drive back to Boston.

And so it was unwelcome when the cashier tapped on the glass window. "We don't
take cash," he said.

The three young Moroccans looked at each other, and shook their heads. Then they
went to find a bank that would exchange their cash for a cashier's check, the
final hurdle, they hoped, to freedom for their family members.

- Staff writer David Adams in Miami contributed to this report.


LOAD-DATE: October 10, 2001

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                    Copyright 2001 Times Publishing Company


                              253 of 302 DOCUMENTS

                         St. Petersburg Times (Florida)

              October 11, 2001, Thursday, 0 South Pinellas Edition

2 detained after videotaping at Tampa port

BYLINE: CURTIS KRUEGER

SECTION: CITY & STATE; Pg. 1B

LENGTH: 632 words

DATELINE: TAMPA



Two men from Bangladesh who were discovered videotaping on the grounds of the
Tampa Port Authority have been detained for more than a week, part of a
concerted effort to increase security at the port.

The men were discovered Oct. 1 by port security officials, who alerted the
Hillsborough County Sheriff's Office. They have since been detained by the
Immigration and Naturalization Service at a facility in Bradenton.

It's the type of case that might have been handled much differently before the
terrorist attacks on New York City and Washington, D.C. But since Sept. 11,
officials at the port have been especially alert for any sort of suspicious
activity, said port director George Williamson.

Although it's natural to think about the need for better airport security in the
wake of the attacks by four hijacked airplanes, seaports across the country are
beefing up security too, because they are considered potential terrorist
targets.

The two Bangladeshi men on the port grounds were videotaping something and
"didn't have a good answer for why they were doing that," when approached by
port security officials, Williamson has said.

They were held so INS agents could investigate. The agency has since concluded
that "Both of them have violated immigration status at this time," said Ronald
T. Johnson, INS port director.

Johnson and other INS officials refused to disclose the names of the two men or
say what they were taping. Bangladesh is a country of 131-million people on the
Bay of Bengal, bordered by India.

Tampa's port is home to large cruise ships that carry hundreds of people and
often is a destination for huge ships that can carry hazardous materials such as
petroleum products or ammonia.

"You have to protect any vulnerability from future terrorist attacks," said U.S.
Sen. Bill Nelson in a telephone interview. He said ports could be vulnerable
"not only because of the commercial traffic . . . but also the cruise ships and
then the strategic location of our ports, so often next to military facilities."

Florida's commercial ports could stand to receive $ 14- to $ 24-million each
under legislation pending in Congress, Nelson said.

Responding to the security concerns, more than 100 law enforcement officers and
business executives met Wednesday at the Port Authority's offices and pledged to
cooperate and stay on the lookout for any suspicious activity at the port.

The case of the men from Bangladesh is similar to hundreds of others around the
nation in which people considered suspicious have been detained by authorities.
Although the detainments are presumably so authorities can look for links to
terrorism, many of these people have been held for immigration violations. Some
of these detainments, which generally affected people of Middle Eastern origin,
have generated criticism from people who say people have been targeted because
of their ethnic background rather than for any crime.

Capt. Greg Brown of the sheriff's office said deputies are staying especially
watchful over the port. If they discover suspicious activity, deputies are
prepared to "detain them until FBI, INS, FDLE or whoever needs to talk to them,
if that's what it is," he said.

"Almost every single person today talked about cooperation between the
agencies," said John Bushell, deputy chief of the Tampa Police Department, after
Wednesday's meeting at the port.

Meanwhile, the U.S. Coast Guard also is increasing its patrols at ports across
the nation, and John R. LaCapra, president of the Florida Ports Council, told a
state House committee this week he would like Gov. Jeb Bush to activate more
National Guard troops to provide security at the state's ports.

- Curtis Krueger can be reached at krueger@sptimes.com or by calling (727)
893-8232.


LOAD-DATE: October 11, 2001

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                    Copyright 2001 Times Publishing Company


                              254 of 302 DOCUMENTS

                         St. Petersburg Times (Florida)

              October 13, 2001, Saturday, 0 South Pinellas Edition

State targets loopholes in license rules

BYLINE: ALISA ULFERTS

SECTION: CITY & STATE; Pg. 1B

LENGTH: 795 words

DATELINE: TALLAHASSEE



By the time of the Sept. 11 attacks, the immigration papers for three of the
hijackers had expired. They were here illegally in the eyes of the federal
government.

But they still had valid Florida identification cards and drivers' licenses,
which they could have used to board the planes that were later crashed into the
World Trade Center, the Pentagon and rural Pennsylvania.

Three others do not appear in immigration records at all but still received
Florida identification cards in late June and early July, federal officials
said.

The disclosures made to a congressional committee Thursday follow weeks of
refusal by state motor vehicle officials to disclose what kind of identification
the terrorists used to obtain their Florida cards.

They come at a time when Florida officials are searching out and closing the
loopholes in a system that licensed terrorists to drive and, unwittingly, to
move about the country unnoticed as they planned their attacks.

"The driver license is accepted as the number one piece of identification,"
Attorney General Bob Butterworth said Friday, after he urged a joint
House/Senate security committee to tighten license restrictions.

"In other countries, you don't get a driver's license by showing your
Blockbuster card," he added.

Movie rental cards aren't accepted by Florida motor vehicle offices as proof of
identification, but the state has been criticized for accepting other forms,
including a self-reported immigration form visitors fill out while on planes
bound for the United States.

The state Department of Highway Safety and Motor Vehicles has refused to release
the terrorists' applications for their licenses, which are a public record under
Florida law. The applications would show what documents the terrorists showed to
prove who they are and that they were eligible for a Florida ID card or license.

Agency officials have cited security concerns and a sealed order from a federal
judge ordering the applications be kept under wraps.

Despite immigration and federal law enforcement officials' statements that they
can find no documentation for three of the terrorists who had Florida
identification, motor vehicles department spokesman Robert Sanchez said their
records show that the men did show backup documents.

"We have notation of what they presented on their applications, and they
presented documents according to Florida law," Sanchez said.

"What is at issue is the authenticity of those documents," he added. Steps are
being taken to help motor vehicle offices track foreign documents used to obtain
driver's licenses, he said.

The congressional testimony also came the same day Gov. Jeb Bush signed an
executive order directing the state Department of Highway Safety and Motor
Vehicles to tighten rules for foreigners seeking drivers' licenses.

That order provides for electronic sharing of driver's license information with
FDLE and other criminal justice agencies. It also allows issuing 30-day
temporary permits when time is needed to verify an applicant's identity.

The order limits the duration of a driver's license to the duration of
Immigration and Naturalization Service documents and directs motor vehicle
offices to retain electronic copies of any foreign document used to establish
identity.

In addition to the steps outlined by Bush, Butterworth shared some of his ideas
for tightening access to the drivers' licenses with members of the state House
and Senate committees on security. Florida needs to be certain that it issues
licenses to people who really are who they claim to be, he said.

"Fifteen dead terrorists had Florida licenses," Butterworth said.

"What kind of identification did they use to get their licenses? Were these
people on a watch list (for terrorists)? Could we have identified them at that
point" when they got their licenses, he asked.

Examples of tightening that access to drivers' licenses include requiring
fingerprints for foreigners and people seeking commercial licenses to haul
hazardous materials.

The state also should consider running the photographs of all license applicants
through a face-recognition software program for possible matchups with wanted
criminals and suspected terrorists, he said. Tampa city officials have used that
same software in Ybor City to find people wanted by police, and civil liberties
groups oppose its use.

But Butterworth doesn't think the state should have to pay for all the
improvements. Because state-issued drivers' licenses have become, by default, an
official ID, the federal government should help with those costs, he said.

- Information from the Associated Press was used in this report.

(text accompanying photos not provided for electronic library, see microfilm)


LOAD-DATE: October 13, 2001

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: PHOTO, (3); Nawaf Alhazmi; Waleed Alshehri; Ahmed Alghamdi

                    Copyright 2001 Times Publishing Company


                              255 of 302 DOCUMENTS

                         St. Petersburg Times (Florida)

               October 14, 2001, Sunday, 0 South Pinellas Edition

Canada beefs up border security, adds ID cards

BYLINE: JIM FOX

SECTION: NATIONAL; THE CANADA REPORT; Pg. 2A

LENGTH: 768 words



Taking steps to battle terrorism and counter fears that Canada is a terrorist
haven, the government announced Friday it would spend more money on law
enforcement and add high-tech tools to protect borders.

Officials plan a $ 250-million fortification effort including the introduction
of a wallet-sized, laser-imprinted "Maple Leaf" identification card for
immigrants, expanded security screening, an additional 300 border workers and
more powers to detain and deport those denied entry to Canada.

"We are mounting a counter-terrorism strategy that is based on intelligence and
information-sharing," said Immigration Minister Elinor Caplan.

While making the announcement in Niagara Falls, Ontario - one of the most
heavily crossed border points to the United States - Caplan said Canada would
retain its tolerance, diversity, immigration and refugee protection programs.

Solicitor General LawrenceMacAulay announced plans in Regina for more spending
on anti-terrorism measures and extra staff.

This will be largely to enhance technology including high-tech fingerprint
detection to help track terrorists and share intelligence with other Canadian
and U.S. agencies.

"We will be better equipped to identify and track down any terrorists already in
Canada and to keep terrorists from entering the country," said Mountie
Commissioner Giuliano Zaccardelli.

Armed Mounties put on

on flights to Washington

Canada will allow armed Mounties to travel aboard Canadian flights into
Washington's Reagan National Airport.

Reversing an earlier plan, Transport Minister David Collenette said Friday the
move will be made if Air Canada is granted permission to resume flights to the
airport, which was closed temporarily after the Sept. 11 terrorist attacks.

U.S. authorities won't allow flights into the airport without armed sky
marshals.

Earlier Collenette called it a "radical idea," saying none would be placed on
Canadian aircraft.

But Cliff MacKay of the Air Transport Association of Canada said there is little
choice.

"We are very reticent to go in that direction - it basically means we are
putting firearms onto aircraft, which has multiple implications," he said.

War news in brief

+In a return to earlier times, the long tradition in Halifax of saying farewell
to sailors heading off to war resumes in the next week. Canadian warships are
being prepared for duty in the Persian Gulf, but this time security concerns
will exclude the public from any formal farewell. Six warships, six aircraft,
helicopters and some 2,000 sailors and airmen are joining the U.S.-led coalition
against terrorism.

+An envelope mailed from Florida that caused the evacuation of a Montreal office
building in an anthrax scare contained only documents, police said Friday. The
building houses the headquarters of Globe International. The letter was from its
American Media office where anthrax has been detected.

Facts and figures

There's little change in the value of Canada's dollar, closing Friday at 63.97
cents U.S. The U.S. dollar returns $ 1.5632 Canadian before bank exchange fees.

Stock markets advanced during the week, with the Toronto Stock Exchange 300
Index at 7,031 points Friday while the Canadian Venture index was 2,879 points.

There was no change in the Bank of Canada key interest rate of 3.75 percent or
the prime lending rate at 5.25 percent.

Lotto 6-49: (Wednesday) 9, 25, 42, 43,46 and 47; bonus 16. (Oct. 6) 1, 18, 27,
28, 43 and 47; bonus 11.

Regional briefs

+Former British Columbia Premier Glen Clark says he's not guilty of breach of
trust that led to him resigning in August 1999. Clark and his neighbor,
Dimitrios Pilarinos, have pleaded not guilty to 11 charges that followed a bid
by Pilarinos to obtain a casino license and involved an investigation of
renovations done at the premier's house and cottage.

+A government study shows Newfoundland would gain few economic benefits from
bulk exports of water, Premier Roger Grimes said. While freshwater is a valuable
commodity, it is expensive to transport and those who might buy water are
looking at conservation measures, the study found.

+A ceremony was held in Quebec City to move the remains of Louis-Joseph Marquis
de Montcalm from a convent to a cemetery where 1,000 French and British soldiers
were buried after the Battle of the Plains of Abraham in 1759. The battle saw
the surrender of New France to British forces.

Montcalm's simple brown casket, covered with a white French flag, was moved by a
carriage drawn by four horses through historic Old Quebec and accompanied by a
military honor guard.


LOAD-DATE: October 15, 2001

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                    Copyright 2001 Times Publishing Company


                              256 of 302 DOCUMENTS

                         St. Petersburg Times (Florida)

            November 01, 2001, Thursday, 4 State / Suncoast Edition

U.S. student visas called no shield

SOURCE: Compiled from Times Wires

SECTION: NATIONAL; AMERICA STRIKES: NOTEBOOK; Pg. 16A

LENGTH: 197 words

DATELINE: WASHINGTON



The nation's system of student visas wasn't designed to stop or track foreign
terrorists, and it doesn't, State Department and immigration officials testified
Wednesday.

As it turned out, only one of the 19 hijackers who crashed U.S. airliners on
Sept. 11 entered the country on a student visa, the federal officials said at a
joint hearing of two subcommittees of the House Committee on Education and the
Workforce.

But the system for issuing and enforcing student visas had nothing to do with
that, since it relies on the same flawed threat-screening system as all other
U.S. visas, the officials said.

FBI says Web site for tips

needs $ 18-million

WASHINGTON - A Web site used by the FBI to gather information on the terrorist
attacks needs nearly $ 18-million to step up operations, two senators said
Wednesday.

The Internet Fraud Complaints Center, a partnership of the FBI and the nonprofit
National White Collar Crime Center, was created in 1999 to help alert
authorities to Internet fraud.

After Sept. 11, the Justice Department encouraged people to use the site to
provide tips on the terrorist attacks. It has received about 140,000 tips since
then.


LOAD-DATE: November 1, 2001

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: DIGEST

                    Copyright 2001 Times Publishing Company


                              257 of 302 DOCUMENTS

                         St. Petersburg Times (Florida)

              November 05, 2001, Monday, 0 South Pinellas Edition

Keeping terrorists out

SECTION: EDITORIAL; EDITORIALS; Pg. 10A

LENGTH: 537 words



The Bush administration and members of Congress have come up with some
common-sense measures to make it more difficult for foreign terrorists to enter
the country. The measures include tightening borders, scrutinizing visa
applicants, sharing national security information among U.S. agencies and
keeping better track of foreign visitors while they are here. The task ahead,
however, will be difficult and expensive.

"The best way of protecting the United States is to keep these (terrorists)
out," said Mary Ryan, assistant secretary of state for consular affairs. True,
it would be difficult to launch violent assaults on American soil without having
agents in the country. But consider the magnitude of the challenge: In 2000,
50-million foreign travelers visited the United States.

In the past, little attention was given to most visa applications. Of the 19
terrorists who hijacked airplanes on Sept. 11, 15 entered the country legally.
That would change under new rules announced by Attorney General John Ashcroft.
Members and supporters of 46 terrorist organizations recognized by the federal
government would not be eligible for entry into the United States, and all visa
applicantions would get closer scrutiny.

For the security checks to be meaningful, government agencies will have to
organize and share their intelligence information. Ashcroft has created a task
force to track foreign terrorists, and one of its main goals is to get the FBI,
Immigration and Naturalization Service and Customs Service to share information
they have gathered about terrorism. Two Senate bills have been filed to require
the CIA to share its information on suspected terrorists with offices
responsible for issuing visas.

There would be more accountability for foreign students. While most of them are
here for an education, some abuse the system. One of the hijackers was given a
student visa, but when he never showed up for classes, neither the school nor
the government was concerned. One proposal is a "student data collection system"

 that would require colleges and universities to keep a foreign student's status
up to date. That way the federal government would know when such students
arrived at their schools, whether they are currently registered and what they
are studying.

The INS will need more officers for border patrol and investigations. Currently,
half of the agency's 2,000 investigators are working to track down suspects in
the Sept. 11 attacks. The vast border with Canada is largely unguarded and will
need an infusion of manpower and technology to make it more secure.

The job of finding the few terrorists hiding in the huge influx of legitimate
foreign visitors will be one of the most difficult challenges the country faces.
Both the president and Congress have suggested sensible steps, and they have, so
far, shown a sensitivity for the rights of law-abiding foreign citizens to visit
and study in the United States. Even with our best effort, some terrorists could
slip through.

Americans now know they face a real threat from the foreign enemy that walks
among us. The laws and rules proposed by the president and Congress are a start
toward defending ourselves from within.


LOAD-DATE: November 6, 2001

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: EDITORIAL

                    Copyright 2001 Times Publishing Company


                              258 of 302 DOCUMENTS

                         St. Petersburg Times (Florida)

             November 08, 2001, Thursday, 0 South Pinellas Edition

A shadow on the American dream

BYLINE: JEANNE MALMGREN

SECTION: FLORIDIAN; Pg. 1D

LENGTH: 882 words



Dear Lia,

When you and I stumbled to the immigration counter at Newark airport back in
August, red-eyed from 30 hours of flying, we were too exhausted to enjoy the big
moment.

An INS officer took the thick packet of papers with your photo stapled to the
front. He initialed something, stamped something else and that was it.

You became a U. S. citizen. Simply because we adopted you, and because of a new
law called the Child Citizenship Act.

You're not interested in laws, though. Or what country is on your passport.
You're 2 years old. For you, your new home is about miracles like Steak 'n Shake
french fries and windshield wipers and sliding glass doors and that little box
we punch to make the garage door go up and down.

Oh, and running water - something so wondrous that you stood in the bathtub the
first time, wearing a look of rapture, both hands cupped under the magic
waterfall.

Then came Sept. 11. Your one-month anniversary as a citizen. I stood in the
living room with you in my arms, and we watched skyscrapers crumple on TV. The
history of the United States was changing, horribly, right before our eyes.

That's why I'm writing you this letter - so that one day, you'll know about the
historic things that happened here right after you arrived, how your first days
in America were also among the nation's darkest ever. And the kind of misgivings
that stirred in your new mother's heart.

One month into the war on terrorism, your adopted homeland is awash in American
flags and mail carriers wearing latex gloves. Members of Congress sing God Bless
America on the Capitol steps, then they vacate their offices because of an
anthrax alert. Our national pride has a new flavor: fear. We're stronger than
ever, yet we're feeling vulnerable.

So I wonder, Lia: Did I do the right thing? I thought we were bringing you to a
safe place, somewhere you could grow up in security and comfort. Instead, you
now live in a country where we're afraid to open our mail.

Cambodia, of course, is worse. Poverty and HIV are rampant. Children have the
hollow look of hunger. Police officers and government officials are so underpaid
that bribes are a way of life. People settle disputes by tossing nitric acid on
each other. Outside the U.S. Embassy in Phnom Penh, a long, desperate line of
Cambodians stretches in the sun. Many of them will never even get inside to
apply for a visa.

When I walked that line, holding you on my hip, people knew why we were there.
Over and over they murmured, "Lucky baby." That happened a lot, wherever we went
in Cambodia. I've heard the same thing from people who have gone to China to
adopt children.

There's this worldwide assumption that America is the Golden Land, that a child
fortunate enough to come here will live in safety and luxury, will have plenty
to eat, good medical care, a big house to live in and an education.

Those things are not givens in Cambodia. For children without families, they're
impossibilities. Girls come out of the orphanages at age 16, and there is one
profession available to them - the world's oldest.

I'm glad we saved you from that, Lia, but I hope we didn't substitute one evil
for another. I hope we didn't transplant you to a place where your future is,
once again, uncertain.

Maybe I'm being too pessimistic. Maybe the long-term effects of Sept. 11 will be
good. Maybe Americans will be more careful, compassionate citizens, less
self-absorbed. Maybe the fear we feel now will give way to determination, a new
sense of purpose.

Or maybe this war will go on a long time, dragging all of us down with it.

We parents of children adopted overseas talk to each other on the Internet.
Often angst pops up. Did we do a noble thing, bringing a child here from the
Third World? Or have we robbed our sons and daughters of their native culture in
the act of "saving" them from it?

Many of the children in Cambodian orphanages aren't orphans at all. They were
given up by families so desperately poor they can't feed their children. I
suspect that was the case with you, Lia. On your birth certificate, in the blank
space for father's name, it says, "Unknown."  Mother: "Unknown." In other words,
"It's a sad story. Don't ask."

Even so, would it have been better to take the money we spent on your adoption
and, instead, dig a well in your village? Build a family planning clinic or a
new school? Buy your father a water buffalo so he can plow his rice paddy?

Those are tough questions even in the best of times. Since Sept. 11, with the
United States changed forever, they haunt me.

When we came home with you, Lia, I was very concerned about honoring your
Cambodian-ness. We planned to fly a Cambodian flag next to our driveway.
Instead, we ended up flying the American flag. I showed you how to salute as the
flag went up the pole.

Every day, you're becoming more Americanized. You don't insist on cold-water
bucket baths in the back yard anymore. We finally got you to try pizza (you
liked it!). And your first English phrase came from the car radio: "Smoooooth
jazz."

You're an incredibly adaptable and courageous little girl, Lia. So I know you'll
make it. You will find your way here in America.

I just hope it's an America you'll be glad to be a citizen of.

Much love,

Mommy


LOAD-DATE: November 8, 2001

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: PHOTO, PATTY YABLONSKI; PHOTO, MARY SENTER; PHOTO, JEANNE MALMGREN;
PHOTO, GARY HICKOK; Jeanne Malmgren holds Lia who had just become and American
citizen; Jeanne and Lia buy some lotus flowers outside a temple in Phnom Penh;
Lia enjoys noodles and vegetables at home in Florida; Lia and her parents,
Jeanne Malmgren and Jim Melvin, pose for a family photo.

                    Copyright 2001 Times Publishing Company


                              259 of 302 DOCUMENTS

                         St. Petersburg Times (Florida)

              November 09, 2001, Friday, 0 South Pinellas Edition

Ashcroft shuffles Justice to help prevent terrorism

BYLINE: MARY JACOBY

SECTION: NATIONAL; AMERICAN STRIKES: INVESTIGATION; Pg. 4A

LENGTH: 658 words

DATELINE: WASHINGTON



Attorney General John Ashcroft announced a "wartime reorganization and
mobilization" of the Justice Department, a move he said will focus law
enforcement efforts on preventing new terrorist attacks.

Ashcroft laid out broad principles for a five-year reorganization plan in a
speech Thursday to senior department officials, who greeted the former Missouri
governor and senator with a standing ovation.

"When terrorism threatens our future, we cannot afford to live in the past," he
said. "We cannot do everything we once did, because lives now depend on us doing
a few things very well."

Ashcroft said the Federal Bureau of Investigation - fabled for its pursuit of
gangsters, bank robbers and mobsters - will scale back its traditional work to
be more "proactive" in disrupting terrorist networks before they can harm
Americans.

A restructuring of the Immigration and Naturalization Service will separate its
immigration-related functions from its border patrol and law enforcement duties,
allowing the agency to more aggressively track foreign terrorist suspects and
prevent others from entering the country, he said.

And 10 percent of Justice Department staff positions in Washington will be
reassigned to offices throughout the country to beef up forces on the "front
lines," Ashcroft said.

However, he offered few specifics, such as which agencies would pick up what
elements of the FBI's domestic crime-fighting duties. Details will be determined
in coming months, he said.

The announcement appeared to be more a kind of pep rally for top Justice lawyers
and an attempt to win them over to the new vision, one that the attorney general
said will be free of "bureaucratic turf battles."

"It is a blueprint for change," Ashcroft said. "It is also a call to you, the
men and women of the Justice Department, to embrace fully our new mission."

He emphasized the need to share intelligence, grand jury and criminal database
information up and down the chain of command and across the board, such as with
the Central Intelligence Agency.

Deputy Attorney General Larry Thompson, who is spearheading the reorganization,
told the Justice lawyers that saving American lives is more important than
getting a notch in their belt for a successful prosecution.

"Our overriding priority is to ensure that all necessary and appropriate steps
are taken to protect the American people," Thompson told the Justice officials,
"even if it means potentially compromising a criminal prosecution."

All new presidents order their Cabinet officers to overhaul departments, and
President Bush was no exception.

And so, Ashcroft was examining ways to retool the sprawling department, which
employs 120,000 people and oversees 38 component organizations such as the FBI,
Immigration and Naturalization Service, Drug Enforcement Administration, Bureau
of Prisons and the U.S. attorneys offices around the country.

Some lawmakers had been complaining even before the Sept. 11 attacks that the
FBI spends too much time on drug trafficking, bank robberies and environmental
crimes that could be handled by other law enforcement agencies or local police.
Now, the pressure for change is even stronger.

"The FBI should focus on investigating federal terrorism crimes and either end
or scale back its involvement in a wide array of crimes," Sen. Charles Grassley,
R-Iowa, wrote in an Oct. 23 letter to FBI director Robert Mueller.

Drug investigations can be handled by the DEA, observers said, while state and
local law enforcement agencies can investigate bank robberies.

At the very least, it's unlikely the new FBI will be busting con artists who
scam the elderly or sellers of fraudulent sports memorabilia - recent operations
the agency is touting on its Web site.

The proposals do not require congressional approval but will likely be the
subject of oversight hearings.

- Information from the Associated Press was used in this report.


LOAD-DATE: November 9, 2001

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: PHOTO; Attorney General John Ashcroft

                    Copyright 2001 Times Publishing Company


                              260 of 302 DOCUMENTS

                         St. Petersburg Times (Florida)

                          November 15, 2001, Thursday

Easing the language barrier

BYLINE: LOGAN NEILL

SECTION: HERNANDO TIMES; TOP of the CLASS; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 837 words



For Kelly Talocco, the most challenging parts of the school day comes when she
opens a textbook.

The 14-year-old Central High freshman immigrated from Colombia last summer with
only a limited English vocabulary.

There are words whose meanings are foreign to her and concepts that are
difficult to grasp. Although she is getting through her first year of high
school in America, she can't help but feel that the language barrier has somehow
diminished her capabilities as a student.

"(School) work is very difficult and takes a long time for me," she says. "There
are many things I do not understand yet, so I don't do as well as I hoped to
do."

In many ways, Kelly's struggles typify the world of immigrant students who move
to Hernando County each year. While some of those students speak English well
enough to become fully acclimated to the classroom activities, those who don't
are enrolled in the county's English for Students of Other Languages program.

ESOL provides a number of in-school and outside resources for non-English
speaking students at elementary and middle school levels, but only high school
students are eligible to receive individual classroom language and reading
instruction.

"High school academics is extremely difficult to get through if you don't speak
the language," says Cynthia Haring, one of the county's two high school ESOL
instructors. Haring, a former ESOL at Powell Middle, now divides her time
between Central and Springstead high schools.

While most of her time is spent helping students increase their ability in
reading and writing English, much of that direction is aimed toward improving
chances for graduation.

"My main concern is getting them to reach FCAT benchmarks in math and English,
because passing those tests are essential to them graduating at some point,"
says Haring, whose students come from places such as Korea, Lebanon, Iran, Cuba
and Romania.

Because ESOL students must take the same classes as the rest of the school
population, they must try to assimilate information that is geared to the
majority of their classmates. That can be a problem, says Springstead freshman
Jennifer Agudelo.

"Sometimes the teachers are hard to understand because the talk so quickly,"
said Jennifer, an immigrant from Colombia.

Indeed, Haring says that often the most difficult task confronting non-English
speaking students is the ability to understand common vernacular and slang.

Because she has more than 15 Spanish-speaking students, the county's ESOL
program allows Haring a paraprofessional aide to help with translations in
classrooms.

"Most of them have a very hard time understanding the concepts we teach in our
schools," says Hilda Colon, who has been an ESOL aide at Central for seven
years.

In addition to her duties as a classroom translator, Colon often assists ESOL
students in working on research papers, homework assignments and other classroom
projects.

"Many of them came from countries where school was much less demanding," says
Colon. "The idea of writing a research paper was something that most of them had
never heard of before coming here."

While high school ESOL students do receive a fair amount of extra help from the
county ESOL, Haring wishes she had more.

"I've seen so many get so frustrated they just quit altogether," she says. "The
danger is that the more ESOL kids we get in the county, the harder it becomes to
reach them all."

While high school ESOL students may find resources stretched thin, students at
lower grade levels undoubtably have found it even tougher to get individualized
help.

As of this school year, there are no classroom ESOL instructors at any of the
county's elementary and middle schools. Instead, those schools are serviced by
six lead teachers, whose responsibilities revolve around mainstreaming ESOL
students regular classroom settings.

By integrating younger non-English speaking children into the classroom, they
are more apt to master the language more quickly, says county ESOL director Ron
Schildbach.

While the elimination of ESOL classes at the primary and middle school levels
had much to do with budget considerations, Schildbach says that ESOL students
who are mainstreamed "get comfortable speaking the language sooner."

Judy Hutchison, ESOL lead teacher at Spring Hill Elementary agrees. Hutchison,
who used to spend much of her time instructing ESOL students one-on-one in a
classroom, believes the new system allows for greater oversight of a student's
progress.

"The idea was to get teachers better trained in working with ESOL students,"
says Hutchison. Under the new system Hutchison helps teachers plan learning
strategies to ensure students are achieving grade-level success.

And while she hears from parents who want one-on-one classes, Hutchison believes
that such an action would be a step backward.

"Our goal is to provide the best we can," she says. "Given time to work the
rough spots out, I'm sure we will see better results in the long run."


LOAD-DATE: November 15, 2001

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DISTRIBUTION: HERNANDO TIMES

GRAPHIC: PHOTO, MAURICE RIVENBARK, (2); Central High School ESOL students Jose
Estrada, Walquire Tejeda, Juliena Marrero and Kelly Taloco work at computers in
the media center as ESOL aide, Hilda Colon helps them.; Kelly Talocco

                    Copyright 2001 Times Publishing Company


                              261 of 302 DOCUMENTS

                         St. Petersburg Times (Florida)

             November 15, 2001, Thursday, 0 South Pinellas Edition

United front proposed to protect borders

SOURCE: Compiled from Times Wires

SECTION: NATIONAL; AMERICA STRIKES; Pg. 12A

LENGTH: 324 words

DATELINE: WASHINGTON



The Bush administration is seriously considering a merger of the federal
agencies responsible for protecting the nation's borders.

"There is an appetite to do that" and "there is a good possibility" that
President Bush will propose it as part of January's budget, said Tom Ridge, the
director of the White House Office of Homeland Security.

The head of the office charged with coordinating defenses against all forms of
terrorism said it made little sense that "when you are coming across a border,
you have five or six different folks, wearing different uniforms, and you have
to run a gantlet."

"We would be a lot safer," Ridge said, "if we could not only fuse some of this
capacity, but exchange some of the intelligence that these agencies now get."

Ridge's comments drew cheers from congressional sponsors of legislation that
would merge the Border Patrol, the Customs Service and the Coast Guard. Ridge
did not list the agencies that the administration is considering for
reorganization, but presumably the list would be similar.

The Border Patrol is part of the Immigration and Naturalization Service of the
Justice Department, Customs is in the Treasury Department, and the Coast Guard
is in the Department of Transportation.

Meanwhile, Attorney General John Ashcroft announced a major restructuring of the
Immigration and Naturalization Service on Wednesday and said it would help fight
terrorism and speed up service.

The plan seeks to separate the two often-conflicting INS missions of keeping out
foreigners who violate U.S. law and helping legal immigrants and visitors, he
said.

Under the plan, a new Bureau of Immigration Enforcement will oversee issues
involving intelligence, investigations and illegal aliens. The new Bureau of
Immigration Services will process applications for naturalization, asylum, work
permits and residency green-card renewals, and deal with other immigrant
benefits questions.


LOAD-DATE: November 15, 2001

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                    Copyright 2001 Times Publishing Company


                              262 of 302 DOCUMENTS

                         St. Petersburg Times (Florida)

               November 15, 2001, Thursday, 2 Late Tampa Edition

636 take oath as U.S. citizens

BYLINE: BABITA PERSAUD

SECTION: TAMPA & STATE; Pg. 3B

LENGTH: 507 words

DATELINE: TAMPA



The newest batch of American citizens were asked to double-check the sex
identification on their certificates because, said U.S. Immigration and
Naturalization officer Ken Vasquez,  "It would be easier to get a sex change
operation than to have INS correct it."

That humor, along with the 316 naturalizations Wednesday morning, were
comforting signs some things have returned to normal since Sept. 11.

Immigrants are still becoming citizens for the same reasons: a better way of
life, religious freedom, or simply because "we elected to live here and we would
like to have the same rights everyone else has," said Ehab Amin, 42, of  Egypt.

The monthly naturalization ceremony at the Tampa Convention Center was typical
of ceremonies past, said Kristen Holland, an INS spokeswoman. Another 320 were
inducted in the afternoon.

Sixty countries were represented.

"Argentina! Bangladesh! Belgium!" called the announcer as new citizens stood up.
A Turkish woman did a jig when her country was called. A Ukrainian woman smiled
into a camera held by her husband.

"We truly have a mini-United Nations right here in this room," said James Minton
of the  INS.

Guest speaker Alina Ortiz, district manager of the local Social Security office,
told the audience of her coming to America from Cuba, a process that included a
language mix-up of cottage cheese and cream cheese.

"Amazing how the smallest things could be so problematic," Ortiz said.

Ghada Eldin, a pediatrician and mother of two, came to America when her husband,
a Spring Hill cardiologist, decided to return to his native Egypt for a wife.

They met for a day, argued, and a week later he called and proposed, Eldin said.
They are now active in Spring Hill's Muslim community.

"Americans really appreciate their country," Eldin, 33, said in explaining why
she wanted to become a citizen.  "I saw this before and after Sept. 11."

Moshe Begiyev, 50, came to America from Uzbekistan for religious freedom. He is
Jewish and fled when Uzbekistan separated from Russia. His journey brought him
from Moscow to New York to Sarasota.

First, he worked at a flea market; then he lifted boxes at a T-shirt factory.
Now, he works at a plastics manufacturing company. His grown children, born in
Uzbekistan, look as American as a Gap commercial. They were naturalized a few
years ago. Now it was dad's turn.

"We are proud of him." said Marina Begiyev, 23, of her father.

Wednesday's inductees came from across the west coast of Florida. Most submitted
applications six months ago. In many ways, they were already Americans. The
longest line outside the ballroom was at the Starbucks kiosk.

The ceremony was all-American. Bonnet-wearing schoolchildren sang America the
Beautiful. A moment of silence was offered for the Sept. 11 victims.

Then, the new citizens were asked to look at their green card for the last time.

They raised their right hands and recited the 14-line Oath of Allegiance.

It was over. "Give yourself a big round of applause," said Minton.


LOAD-DATE: November 15, 2001

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DISTRIBUTION: TAMPA & STATE

GRAPHIC: PHOTO, TONI L. SANDYS; Adel Eldin congratulates his wife, Ghada, 33,
originally of Cairo, Egypt, as she holds her citizenship certificate Wednesday
after a naturalization ceremony at the Tampa Convention Center.

                    Copyright 2001 Times Publishing Company


                              263 of 302 DOCUMENTS

                         St. Petersburg Times (Florida)

                         November 21, 2001, Wednesday
                              Correction Appended

PHCC adds scrutiny on foreign students

BYLINE: KENT FISCHER

SECTION: PASCO TIMES; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 376 words

DATELINE: DADE CITY



Conceding it would be but a small step in the war on terrorism, the Board of
Trustees of Pasco-Hernando Community College agreed Monday night on new rules
regarding foreign students and expired visas.

The board wants college administrators to report to federal immigration
authorities the names of PHCC students whose visas have expired. The board also
debated whether the college should report foreign students who drop out or stop
coming to class.

Trustees said they thought the new rules were necessary in light of the Sept. 11
terrorist attacks. Several of the terrorists implicated in the attacks had come
to the United States on student visas and remained after their credentials
expired.

"We are the eyes and ears at the ground level," said trustee Judy Parker, who
proposed the new rules. "We need to tighten this up and get rid of the riffraff
that drifts into our country."

Only 17 students are at PHCC studying on student visas. None of those students
are using expired paperwork, college President Robert Judson said.

Judson said he had no problem reporting students who tried to enroll on expired
visas but questioned whether the college had the authority to track and report
on former students.

The college will investigate the legality of tracking and reporting former
students, Judson said. In any event, the college could impose a new rule in
January requiring foreign students to have current and accurate immigration
papers. The college currently has no such policy, he said.

Steve Schroeder, the college's attorney, said federal regulations regarding
student records and confidentiality might make such a practice difficult.
Trustee Dr. Rao Musunuru said the proposal was worthy, even if it  puts heat on
PHCC.

"We have a moral duty to do this, regardless of liability," he said. "We are in
a small town. All of these people who turned the world around on Sept. 11 lived
in small communities, too - smaller than ours."

Parker agreed.

"We are a country of laws," she said, "and we should not be overlooking anything
anymore."

- Kent Fischer covers education in Pasco County. He can be reached in west Pasco
at 869-6241 or toll-free at 1-800-333-7505, ext. 6241. His e-mail address is
kfischer@

sptimes.com.

k


LOAD-DATE: November 22, 2001

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DISTRIBUTION: PASCO TIMES

CORRECTION-DATE: November 22, 2001

CORRECTION:
 Pasco-Hernando Community College trustee Judy Braak was the trustee behind the
proposal to monitor more closely foreign student visas. A story in Wednesday's
Pasco Times misidentified the trustee who pushed for the change.

                    Copyright 2001 Times Publishing Company


                              264 of 302 DOCUMENTS

                         St. Petersburg Times (Florida)

                           November 23, 2001, Friday

Foreign students in new focus

BYLINE: KENT FISCHER

SECTION: HERNANDO TIMES; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 370 words



Conceding it would be but a small step in the war on terrorism, the Board of
Trustees of Pasco-Hernando Community College agreed this week on new rules
regarding foreign students and expired visas.

The board wants college administrators to report to federal immigration
authorities the names of PHCC students whose visas have expired. The board also
debated whether the college should report foreign students who drop out or stop
coming to class.

Trustees said they thought the new rules were necessary in light of the Sept. 11
terrorist attacks. Several of the terrorists implicated in the attacks had come
to the United States on student visas and remained after their credentials
expired.

"We are the eyes and ears at the ground level," said trustee Judy Braak, who
proposed the new rules. "We need to tighten this up and get rid of the riffraff
that drifts into our country."

Only 17 students are at PHCC studying on student visas. None of those students
is using expired paperwork, college president Robert Judson said.

Judson said he had no problem reporting students who tried to enroll on expired
visas but questioned whether the college had the authority to track and report
on former students.

The college will investigate the legality of tracking and reporting former
students, Judson said. In any event, the college could impose a new rule in
January requiring foreign students to have current and accurate immigration
papers. The college currently has no such policy, he said.

Steve Schroeder, the college's attorney, said federal regulations regarding
student records and confidentiality might make such a practice difficult.
Trustee Dr. Rao Musunuru said the proposal was worthy, even if it puts heat on
PHCC.

"We have a moral duty to do this, regardless of liability," he said. "We are in
a small town. All of these people who turned the world around on Sept. 11 lived
in small communities, too - smaller than ours."

Braak agreed.

"We are a country of laws," she said, "and we should not be overlooking anything
anymore."

- Staff writer Kent Fischer covers education in Pasco County. He can be reached
toll-free at 1-800-333-7505, ext. 6241. Send e-mail to kfischer@sptimes.com.


LOAD-DATE: November 23, 2001

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DISTRIBUTION: HERNANDO TIMES

                    Copyright 2001 Times Publishing Company


                              265 of 302 DOCUMENTS

                         St. Petersburg Times (Florida)

             December 15, 2001, Saturday, 0 South Pinellas Edition

New driver's license rules kick in early

BYLINE: MIKE BRASSFIELD

SECTION: CITY & STATE; Pg. 3B

LENGTH: 411 words



The state of Florida has hustled to impose new anti-terrorism rules that make it
harder for noncitizens to get Florida drivers' licenses.

The rules originally were to change next week, but state licensing offices have
been swamped with immigrants rushing to get drivers' licenses before the new
rules take effect.

So the state changed the rules Thursday.

"Word had gotten around, and we were beginning to see a stampede of people eager
to get licenses under the old procedures," said Robert Sanchez, spokesman for
the state Department of Highway Safety and Motor Vehicles. "So we switched to
the new procedure ahead of schedule."

The stampede happened in South Florida, where long lines and confusion greeted
scores of immigrants trying to get licenses in Miami-Dade and Broward counties.
The situation in the Tampa Bay area wasn't that extreme.

The changes are intended to make it harder for would-be terrorists to blend in.
At least 13 of the 19 terrorists involved in the Sept. 11 attacks had Florida ID
cards or driving permits.

Under the new rules, noncitizens in Florida's high-population areas must go to
specific licensing offices to get drivers' licenses or ID cards. Staffers at
those offices have been trained by the Immigration and Naturalization Service to
recognize altered or fake documents, Sanchez said.

In Pinellas and Hillsborough counties, residents who are not U.S. or Canadian
citizens are allowed to go to only one office in each county. The Pinellas
office is at 6855 62nd Ave. N in Pinellas Park. For an appointment, call (727)
547-7687. The Hillsborough office is at 4100 W. Martin Luther King Blvd. in
Tampa. Call (813) 871-7375 for an appointment.

In less populated counties, such as Citrus, Hernando and Pasco, noncitizens can
go to any licensing office.

Before, anyone with the proper documents could walk into a licensing office and
walk out with a permit or ID the same day. Now, noncitizens receive a 30-day
temporary paper permit. During that time, an applicant's documents are copied
and cross-checked with immigration authorities. If everything matches, the state
will mail the applicant a license.

Also, under the new rules, a noncitizen's driving permit will expire at the same
time his or her visa expires.

Gov. Jeb Bush said Friday that noncitizens shouldn't get drivers' licenses that
expire after their visas, so he ordered the rules changed.

- The Associated Press contributed to this report.


LOAD-DATE: December 15, 2001

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                    Copyright 2001 Times Publishing Company


                              266 of 302 DOCUMENTS

                         St. Petersburg Times (Florida)

              January 03, 2002, Thursday, 0 South Pinellas Edition

America doesn't deserve attack on its generosity

SECTION: EDITORIAL; LETTERS; Pg. 11A

LENGTH: 1825 words



Re: U.S. has the Scrooge syndrome, Dec. 27.

I sure do get tired of the do-good, hate-America crowd. Paul Krugman, one of the
Times' stable of liberal writers, thinks America is niggardly with its foreign
aid - "the Scrooge of the Western world," as he puts it. How absurd!

For starters, the United States has given a home to tens of millions of poor and
hungry foreigners. What other country can say as much? For instance, Fremont,
Calif., has one of the largest Afghan populations in the world.

Every immigrant, never having lifted a finger to create America's wealth, is
entitled to welfare benefits. I know an immigrant who receives more Social
Security income than I do. That says nothing of other benefits he receives.
America niggardly? Only in the minds of the do-good, hate-America claque.

And every immigrant has friends and relatives in his old country. They send tens
of billions of America's wealth to other countries every year. As a former
resident of the Rio Grande Valley, I saw immigrants (illegal) send most of their
paychecks back to Mexico. Ireland, Israel and Egypt, to name a few others, also
receive billions of dollars yearly from relatives in America. In fact, there
isn't a country in the world that doesn't receive foreign aid. America
niggardly? Just the opposite. America's wealth is gushing from every pore. And
what about American tourists who pour billions into foreign lands every year?

What do we get for it? We get a kick in the rear end from the fifth column
within and the terrorists without.

Francis J. Sullivan, St. Petersburg

Foreign aid could do so much more

Re: U.S. has the Scrooge syndrome, by Paul Krugman, Dec. 27.

I have great respect for Paul Krugman as both an economist and journalist and I
enthusiastically agree with his argument to increase American funding for health
services in poor countries.

Unfortunately, however, he limits his expressed concern to health services. He
is surely aware of, but does not mention, the need for increased and improved
supplies of food and water, to be achieved, in good part, by enhancing
agricultural productivity in the recipient countries. There is no reference to
other necessary steps to improve the quality and quantity of life in poor
countries, such as assuring adequate clothing, shelter and heating fuel,
clearing residual land mines (as we are currently being reminded in Afghanistan)
and helping to bring peace to areas at war. There are undoubtedly controllable
ecological factors as well.

Further, Krugman writes only of governmental funding of international health
programs, but he does not consider aid through non-governmental agencies and
individuals for health and other humanitarian purposes.

What is most lacking, however, is reference to population control. There is an
inverse relationship between the numbers of poor people and resources available
for their relief. The single most cost-effective approach to the alleviation of
poverty is through family planning. It is not coincidental that birth rates are
highest in the neediest countries of the world.

To be sure, Krugman's article is focused on the World Health Organization's
report, which was itself evidently limited to governmental financing of health

services, but I think that a more comprehensive perspective should have been
suggested, at least in passing.

Seymour S. Bluestone, M.D., Clearwater

Turning away the homeless is shameful

After reading your Dec. 28 article Cold sends homeless in search of shelter, I
am utterly and totally ashamed of our communities and counties for turning away
many homeless people from their cold-night shelters when the criteria of
temperature readings are not met.

What has happened to our world, when a person or a family needs warmth and some
comfort from bitter cold and this homeless, poor individual is refused admission
and handed a blanket or jacket and directed to a park or a bench? I realize
there are free-loaders and certain individuals who try and take advantage of
gratuities in all forms, but treating the unfortunate, poor and homeless in this
manner is indeed cruel and inhuman. Are we back to "There is no room at the
inn," as our Lord looks down in utter disbelief and amazement?

Instead of planning plush, luxurious hotels, shopping malls and huge
skyscrapers, it is time our city, county and state leaders start to provide more
shelter and protection for our homeless and hungry. Where have compassion and
understanding gone in this "sometimes ugly" world? Please answer my plea!

Don Paulie, Port Richey

A man who will be missed

Re: Former Times columnist Jacquin Sanders, 79, dies, Dec. 21.

We were deeply saddened to learn of the death of your former columnist Jacquin
Sanders.

Our agency has been in operation in St. Petersburg for more than 25 years,
providing housing and support services for adults in recovery from chronic
alcoholism/drug addiction. Over the years, Mr. Sanders wrote several articles on
our agency and on residents and graduates of our program. He was one of the most
sensitive, insightful, gentle men I have ever met in my life.

The "twinkle in his eye," which was mentioned in the article, was apparent even
during phone conversations! He was a fine writer and journalist, and we have
missed him since his retirement. Thank you for making him part of our lives and
our community.

Miriam Parrish, Christian Recovery Centers Inc.,

St. Petersburg

Geography update needed

Re: What's N.C. doing right?, Dec. 30.

   You must conclude from this article that North Carolina proves that positive
teacher motivation and reduction in class sizes along with a policy of
"accountability" are the major reasons for success in educating North Carolina
kids. Florida can learn a lesson from North Carolina's relative success and
follow its example. Money alone does not improve our education quality or
student achievement.

Your geography "lesson" represented by the U.S. map on Page 12A apparently is
the result of the St. Petersburg Times' poor geography knowledge. You have a
number of states in the wrong place, as most second-graders would know. Perhaps
your people need to apply to a school district in North Carolina for a geography
update.

Wayne Anderson, Treasure Island

Correct information is important

Re: What's N.C. doing right?

The St. Petersburg Times gave a very in-depth analysis of the state of public
education in Florida and throughout the nation. Solutions to and causes of the
"dumbing down" of America's students are highly debatable. Therefore, any single
suggestion to solve the problem would be woefully inadequate. Suffice it to say
that the problem is not the students. It is the adults who are charged with the
responsibility to educate our young people.

Having said that, I direct your attention to Page 12A of Sunday's paper. The
bold headline Here's the breakdown - state by state was prophetic. Where was the
breakdown at the Times when the map on this page was published? Did Utah, New
Mexico and Arizona suddenly change positions without telling anyone but the
Times? Is this shifting of territory or renaming of states a vast conspiracy
best left explained in an episode of the X-Files? To publish something as simple
as a map should not be a problem. Next time the Times needs a map, please go to
AAA. I am sure the people there would be happy to help out.

Is a correct map important? Of course it is. Believe it or not, lots of students
read the Times. If the Times can't get a simple map correct why, would they
trust other information in newspaper?

Anthony Bernardi, St. Petersburg

Here's why we're losing ground

Re: Losing ground: education; What's N.C. doing right?

Talk about losing ground in education. I can see why Florida is so far down on
the list. When I look at the map on Page 12A of Sunday's paper, I see why Utah
is above average. Officials there are spending New Mexico's money. Arizona is
spending Utah's money and New Mexico is spending Arizona's money.

  One of the aspects of the state-by-state breakdown on 12A focused on the test
scores of fourth-graders, and I assume that one of them made up the map of the
United States.

   For shame, that your editors would let something like this go unnoticed.

Fred Richenderfer, St. Petersburg

What a joke

Re: Losing ground: education; What's N.C. doing right?

Thank you so much for the best New Year's gift a reader could ask for! A
critical article on Florida's educational system in which the newspaper
misplaces three states (Arizona, Utah and New Mexico) on a U.S. map!

I guess we can assume your editors are all graduates of Florida's public
education system. Exactly what gives you the right to be critical of any
educational system with that display of academic achievement! What a joke!

Tom Arcand, Wesley Chapel

One winner in the testing game

Re: FCAT tests.

What a waste of time and energy! Teachers wasting time teaching the tests.
Students wasting time taking pre-tests, practice tests, the test, then going
over the test to see where they made mistakes. Think of all of the precious
learning that students could be doing instead of wasting all of that time and
energy on a meaningless test.

Well, there is one winner after all. In 1999, NCS Pearson won a three-year
contract with the state of Florida worth $ 69-million. Now, the company will get
a new contract for three years for $ 105-million dollars (FCAT scorer wins new
deal, Dec. 27).

Who said there are no profits to this testing? The only losers are our children.

Margaret Hyde, Clearwater

Selective concern for children's safety

Re: Ex-NRA leader in battle over dogs, Jan. 1.

Marion Hammer is very selective in what she considers a threat to children. In
1998 when our Legislature passed the Child Access Prevention law, which
prescribed penalties for adults who left loaded guns accessible to children, she
and the National Rifle Association bitterly fought its passage. Her comment at
the time was this law would only make every gun owner a potential criminal.

Now Hammer wants to protect her grandchildren from what she considers to be
dangerous dogs owned by a neighbor. However, when she and the NRA had an
opportunity to protect children from dangerous loaded guns that irresponsible
gun owners left accessible to children, she and the NRA were not interested.

Arthur C. Hayhoe, executive director, Florida Coalition

to Stop Gun Violence Inc., Zephyrhills

Share your opinions

We invite readers to write to us. Letters for publication should be addressed to
Letters to the Editor, P.O. Box 1121, St. Petersburg, FL 33731.

They can be sent by e-mail to letters@sptimes.com or by fax to 893-8675.

They should be brief and must include the writer's name, address and phone
number. Please include a handwritten signature when possible.

Letters may be edited for clarity, taste and length. We regret that not all
letters can be published.


LOAD-DATE: January 3, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: CARTOON, Don Addis; a guy watches TV as an announcer talks about bowl
games

TYPE: LETTER

                    Copyright 2002 Times Publishing Company


                              267 of 302 DOCUMENTS

                         St. Petersburg Times (Florida)

              January 03, 2002, Thursday, 0 South Pinellas Edition

Afghanistan receives two months of food for 6-million

SOURCE: Compiled from Wire Reports

SECTION: NATIONAL; NOTEBOOK; Pg. 8A

LENGTH: 562 words

DATELINE: CAPE TOWN, South Africa; WASHINGTON; DETROIT



More than 115,000 tons of food, most of it from the United States, arrived in
Afghanistan in December, enough to feed 6-million displaced Afghans for two
months.

The food arrived as winter descended on the stricken South Asian country. It was
twice the amount that arrived in November, and improvements in distribution by
trucks could ease future deliveries and distribution.

On the diplomatic front, meanwhile, the Bush administration took a big step
toward formalizing relations with the U.S.-backed, post-Taliban government.

Ryan Crocker, a former U.S. ambassador to Syria, was named charge d'affaires for
the U.S. Embassy in Kabul, and State Department spokesman Richard Boucher said
an ambassador would be named eventually.

FIGHTING VISA FRAUD: The Bush administration is developing a plan to use
digitized photos to help cut down on visa fraud at U.S. points of entry,
officials said Wednesday.

The new system will help immigration officials deal with impostors using other
people's documents and also fight the practice of photo substitution on valid
passports, said Russ Bergeron, spokesman for the Immigration and Naturalization
Service.

The change involves linking computers used by immigration inspectors to the
State Department's database of photographs, he said.

RADIATION DRUG BOUGHT: The federal government recently bought 1.6-million doses
of a drug that protects against certain kinds of radioactive fallout and will
buy at least 6-million additional doses in the coming year to create a large
national stockpile, the Department of Health and Human Services said Wednesday.

Mandela backtracks on war

Nelson Mandela, who was criticized in some quarters here for coming out strongly
in support of the U.S.-led campaign against terrorism, said Wednesday that he
may have overstated his backing for the war and that his earlier comments may
have unintentionally suggested that he was ignoring the conflict's toll on
ordinary people.

"Our view may have been one-sided and overstated," said Mandela, a Nobel peace
laureate as well as South African's first post-apartheid president. He added,
"Such unreserved support for the war in Afghanistan gives the impression that we
are insensitive to and uncaring about the suffering inflicted upon the Afghan
people and country."

Charity's founder ordered held

DETROIT - A federal immigration judge Wednesday ordered the founder of a charity
accused of funding terrorist activities held indefinitely on a visa violation
charge, the man's lawyer said.

Rabih Haddad, 41, was arrested at his Ann Arbor home Dec. 14, the same day
federal agents raided the offices of Global Relief Foundation in Illinois, which
he helped start.

The U.S. Immigration Court hearing on Haddad's detainment was closed and a court
spokesman declined to comment on it.

Tampa back on list at National

WASHINGTON - More destinations will appear on departure screens at Reagan
National Airport, but passengers won't be able to fly to any of them directly
this week.

The Department of Transportation approved service to an additional 14 cities,
including Tampa, effective Wednesday as the airport continued to restore flights
eliminated after the Sept. 11 attacks.

But according to Tom Sullivan of the Metropolitan Washington Airports Authority,
there were no immediately scheduled flights to any of those destinations.


LOAD-DATE: January 3, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: DIGEST

                    Copyright 2002 Times Publishing Company


                              268 of 302 DOCUMENTS

                         St. Petersburg Times (Florida)

                           February 08, 2002, Friday

Fiesta cheers immigrant stew

BYLINE: AMY ABBOTT

SECTION: CITY TIMES; RSVP TAMPA; GOINGS ON; Pg. 7

LENGTH: 2164 words



Fiesta Day 2002. The Tampa melting pot called Ybor City celebrates its Cuban,
German, Italian, African-Cuban, Jewish and Spanish immigrant roots with this
56-year-old street festival Saturday.

After breaking away from the Knights of Sant'Yago Illuminated Night Parade in
1998, the festival continues to grow, attracting more than 50,000 people each
year. But it still remains close-knit with the Ybor community, more so than
mega-events of Guavaween and Gasparilla.

The feel is festive and focused on an ethnic theme, not beads and booze.

HIGHLIGHTS:

International Food Fair: More than 60 vendors serving Cajun, Spanish, Asian,
Greek and Italian dishes. Don't miss the giant paella from Columbia Restaurant.

Kid's Fiesta at Centennial Park: Burn off kids' extra energy with a climbing
wall, swings, bounce tent, duck pond and a music stage.

Arts and Crafts Market Place: Paintings, glassware, wind chimes and more augment
the usual Ybor Fresh Market. You could be there all day looking at the 75
booths.

Flag Parade: Topping off the day's festivities is the 4 p.m. parade. Marshall
Fernando Noriega will lead marching bands and groups in colorful ethnic costume,
and of course, flags, flags, flags.

10 a.m.-6 p.m., Ybor City. Call (813) 283-5023.

GOINGS ON

8 - TODAY

Julio Iglesias. The self-made king of Latin didn't shake his bon-bon to become a
world sensation. He earned it with a string of hard-won accomplishments. He
earned a law degree from Cambridge, then won the 1968 Spanish Song Festival. In
the 1970s, he toured Europe and Latin America to get a contract with CBS
International. He topped the charts with singles in Spanish, French, Italian and
English. Then came some more hits - this time with Willie Nelson, Diana Ross and
Stevie Wonder - in the 1980s. Now, resting on his laurels and singing mostly in
Spanish, he sells out venues where ever he goes. 8 p.m. Fri.-Sat. Ruth Eckerd
Hall, 1111 McMullen-Booth Road, Clearwater. Call (727) 791-7400.

REO Speedwagon. Their power ballads pull like puppet strings on your mouth every
time you hear them. You probably know more of their songs by heart than just
Take It on the Run and Keep On Loving You. 7 p.m. Fri. Florida State
Fairgrounds, Entertainment Hall No. 12, 4800 N U.S. 301, Tampa. Call 621-7821.

Big River. Spirited county and gospel music sets the scene in this classic Mark
Twain tale and seven-time Tony winner. When Huck runs away from an abusive home
life, he discovers his compassion when he helps Jim, a runaway slave. Their
flight for freedom is inspiring. 8 p.m. Fri.-Sat. Mahaffey Theater, 400 First
St. S, Bayfront Center, St Petersburg. Call 1-800-874-9015.

Dead Kennedys. Was it the message or the messenger? Were they popular for their
political views, slashing and burning a path for hard-core heavy metal? Or was
it lead singer Jello Biafra's highly visible activist postions? In any case, the
whole mix landed them in court over obscenity charges long before 2 Live Crew
took the stage. Dismissed by a hung jury, the band didn't fare so well and broke
up in '87. Now the crew is touring without the flavor of Jell-O. 7 p.m. Fri.
Jannus Landing, 16 2nd St. N, St. Petersburg. Call (727) 896-1244.

John Lennon artwork. Take a dead cultural icon, add his prized artwork to sell
and name it after one of his most notable songs and you have All You Need Is
Love. That's the equation Yoko Ono and Channelside came up for the display of
John Lennon's artwork. 5-9 p.m. Fri.; 11 a.m.-7 p.m. Sat.; 11 a.m.-6 p.m. Sun.
Channelside, 615 Channelside Drive, Tampa. Call 223-4250.

Owen. Another incarnation of what has been the
                                      Owls, Joan Of Arc and Capn'Jazz, lead
vocalist and songwriter Mike Kinsella takes this evolved, yet still hard-core,
version to the Ybor masses. 9 p.m. Fri. Orpheum, 1902 Avenida Republica de Cuba,
Ybor City. Call (813) 248-9500.

Carl Hiaasen book signing. In Carl Hiaasen's
                                        Basket Case, a renegade reporter is
banished to the lowly obit desk but stumbles on a Scooby Doo mystery involving
the death of a rock star. Hiaasen, a Miami Herald columnist, will be in town to
personalize his piece of fiction. 7 p.m. Tampa Tribune auditorium, 202 S Parker
St. Call 253-2638.

9 - SATURDAY

Basically Bernstein. Bernstein's distaste for '50s suburbia is evident in his
many satirical works, and we celebrate him for it, probably because it still
translates to today. Especially with the fully-staged one-act opera, Trouble in
Tahiti. A dissatisfied thirtysomething couple engross themselves in work, the
gym, shopping sprees and psychiatric visits, all to avoid each other. The fact
that the protagonists had the same name as Bernstein's parents is not thought to
be a coincidence. In a less in-your-face production, the second half is a
concert-style sampling of Candide and West Side Story staged by Opera Tampa. 8
p.m. Sat., 2 p.m. Sun. $ 9.50-$ 46.50. Tampa Bay Performing Arts Center, Carol
Morsani Hall. Call 229-7827.

Florida Orchestra kicks off Centro Asturiano centennial celebration: Saturday, 8
p.m. Centro Asturiano Theatre. Call 229-2214.

Peter Rabbit Tales: This puppet program teaches children early about
overwhelming temptation in The Tale of Peter Rabbit, party crashers in The Tale
of Mrs. Tittlemouse and bad advice from relatives in The Tale of Benjamin Bunny.
2 p.m. $ 4 adult, $ 3 children.  Tampa Theatre, 711 N Franklin St., Tampa. Call
274-8981.    Gasparilla Distance Classic: If you have to get out of bed at this
hour on a Saturday, it better be for a good reason. This is one of them. 8:15
a.m., $ 25. Downtowm Tampa to Bayshore. Call 224-1733.

Ice Hockey: Washington Capitals at Tampa Bay Lightning. 7:30 p.m. $ 8-$ 80. Ice
Palace, 401 Channelside Drive. Call 301-6600.

16th Annual Steve Otto Chili Cook-off. Cooks try to please judges' palates with
their fiery concoctions. You can try a bowl without signing a waiver for burned
tongues. Just fork over $ 5. Florida State Fair, I-4 and U.S. 301, Entertainment
Hall No. 12, Tampa. Call 621-7821.

Web Skills for Business and Marketing certificate program. A combination of day
and evening seminars for people who want to create Web sites designed
specifically for business. Saturday mornings and certain weeknights.
Registration is required. University of South Florida, MHH building, room 116,
Tampa. Call 974-5201.


10 - SUNDAY

Cake. The Sacramento-based quintet delivers funky lyrics with poker faces and
peppy riffs that leave you wondering if they're joking. After skyrocketing to
university pop stardom with Going the Distance in '96, each of the next three
albums has produced chart-topping, radio-friendly sing-alongs. 7 p.m. Jannus
Landing, 16 2nd St. N, St. Petersburg. Call (727) 896-1244.

On the Waterfront. "I coulda been a contenda." See where the infamous line all
started in this 1954 winner of eight Academy Awards including Best Picture.
Leonard Bernstein launched his career when he composed the film's score. 3 p.m.,
$ 5. Tampa Theatre, 711 N Franklin St. Call 274-8981.

Burn the Floor: Expect to see breathless rhumbas to heavy metal renditions in
this dance competition, which was inspired by Elton John's 50th birthday party,
created by a man with a hand in "Lord of the Dance" and fashioned after a Vegas
show. Championship dance couples from 15 countries will shake it to make sure
you get your money's worth. 2 and 7 p.m. $ 35-$ 45. Ruth Eckerd Hall, 1111
McMullen-Booth Road, Clearwater. Call (727) 791-7400.

Walt Willey: His character Jackson Montgomery isn't a stand-up kind of guy on
All My Children, but that doesn't stop Willey from touring the comedy circuit.
8:30 p.m., $ 18-$ 20. Side Splitters, 12938 N Dale Mabry Highway, Tampa. Call
960-1197.

Viola Studio Recital. 8 p.m. $ 3-$ 4. University of South Florida Music Recital
Hall, 4202 E Fowler Ave., Tampa. Call 974-2311.

An Affaire of the Heart. Annual fundraiser for Stageworks Theatre featuring
silent auction and musical entertainment by Nathan Burton. 4-8 p.m., $ 30. Don
Vincente Restaurant, 1915 Avenue Republica de Cuba, Ybor City.

Tampa National College Fair. "What do you want to do with the rest of your
life?" Many times that is an easier question to answer than issues concerning
admission, financial aid and entrance exams. 11 a.m.-4 p.m. Tampa Convention
Center, 333 S Franklin St. Call (703) 836-2222.

11 - MONDAY

Marshall Tucker Band. Suited perfectly for the State Fair, these down-home tunes
bring back the glory days of '70s Southern rock with ditties such as Heard It In
A Love Song and Can't you See. Yee-haw! 7:30 p.m., $ 7 plus fair admission.
Florida State Fairgrounds, 4800 N U.S. 301, Tampa. Call 621-7821.

Verizon Classic. Like golf? You live in Florida, you have to like it. (Like it
or not.) The 15th annual Senior PGA Tour's Verizon Classic attracts some of the
tour's biggest moneymakers. Viewing should be fair in this stadium golf course
if you're trying to take a peek at Arnold Palmer. 8 a.m.-5 p.m. Mon.-Feb. 17, $
20-$ 80. Tournament Players Club of Tampa Bay, 5300 W Lutz-Lake Fern Road, Lutz.
Call 265-4653.

12 - TUESDAY

Danny Davis and the Nashville Brass. The 76-year-old Davis has been playing
music professionally since he was 14 and revamped the sound of country to
incorporate his instrument, the horn. For 33 years, Davis and the Nashville
Brass have been whooping up country fans. 11 a.m. and 4 p.m., $ 7 plus fair
admission.  Florida State Fairgrounds, 4800 N U.S. 301, Tampa. Call 621-7821.

Merle Haggard. He's the original bad boy of country that everyone  tries to
emulate - except for his stay at San Quentin. 7:30 p.m., $ 7 plus fair
admission. Florida State Fairgrounds, 4800 N U.S. 301 Tampa. Call 621-7821.

Larry Reeb. He gives tips on everything you would gamble on, from marriage to
the lottery to children, when he's performing as the black-sheep, politically
incorrect, Uncle Lar persona. 8:30 p.m. Tues.-Feb. 14 and Feb. 17; 8 p.m.- 10:30
p.m. Feb. 15 and 16. $ 5-$ 14. Side Splitters, 12936 N Dale Mabry Highway. Call
960-1197.

13 - WEDNESDAY

Pablo Francisco. He proves stand-up doesn't have to be stand-still. Creating
audio and visual pictures to get a laugh has landed him a regular spot on FOX's
Mad TV, and time on Comedy Central's Short Attention Span Theater and Make Me
Laugh. Improv, 1600 E Eighth Ave., C-112, Ybor City.

Gov't Mule. There's more to Southern rock than the slimy antics of Kid Rock.
When Warren Haynes and Allen Woody broke off from the Allman Brothers Band and
debuted in '95, they attracted the likes of the Red Hot Chili Peppers' Flea to
Phish bassist Mike Gordon wanting a little taste of what these Southern rockers
cook up. 7 p.m. Wed. $ 17-$ 20. Jannus Landing, 16 2nd St. N, St. Petersburg.
Call (727) 896-1244.

Preservation Hall Jazz Band: What started as a place for New Orleans jazz
musicians to jam in the '50s has evolved into a four-decade-long collaboration
named after the hub that once housed them: Preservation Hall. 11 a.m. and 4
p.m., $ 7 plus fair admission. Florida State Fairgrounds, 4800 N U.S. 301,
Tampa. Call 621-7821.

Basketball:  UT Spartans women vs. Florida Tech, 5:30 p.m.,  UT Spartans men vs.
Florida Tech, 7:30 p.m. $ 5 adults, $ 3 seniors and students. University of
Tampa Sports Arena, 401 W Kennedy Blvd., Tampa.

14 - THURSDAY

Patti Labelle. This diva has what many are lacking: grace. It paid off. She was
the first African-American act ever to appear at New York's Metropolitan Opera
House. Other career highlights include teaming with Burt Bacharach and a Grammy
in 1994 for Best Female R&B Performance. Now, she's back with
                                                  When a Woman Loves. 8 p.m., $
40-$ 75. Ruth Eckerd Hall, 1111 McMullen-Booth Road, Clearwater. Call (727)
791-7400.

Sound of Music Sing-A-Long.  Don't know what to do with those old floral
curtains? Wrap yourself up and go as the von Trapp family children to the Sound
of Music Sing-A-Long. Or just go as yourself and be part of the interactive
touring movie. Subtitles are provided for people who forgot the words. Charmian
Carr, who played Liesl in the musical, will be there to meet and greet. Proceeds
go to Big Brothers Big Sisters. 7:30 p.m., $ 25. Tampa Theatre, 711 N Franklin
St., Tampa. Call 274-8286.

Florida Orchestra: A Salute to Rodgers and Hammerstein. The Orchestra strums up
a wide array of examples from this songwriting duo such as It's A Grand Night
for Singing, South Pacific, Carousel, Oklahoma! and more. 8 p.m., $ 24.50-$
42.50. Tampa Bay Performing Arts Center, Carol Morsani Hall. Call 229-7829.

Want to send out an RSVP to the Tampa area? Fax press releases at least 10 days
before publication to Amy Abbott at 226-3381, or mail to 1000 N Ashley Drive,
Suite 700, Tampa, FL 33602. Amy's phone number is 226-3408 and her e-mail is
abbott@sptimes.com.


LOAD-DATE: February 8, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DISTRIBUTION: CITY TIMES

GRAPHIC: PHOTO, (3); DRAWING; Beatrix Potter puppet characters; Walt Willey of
All my Children; Pablo Francisco; Fiesta Day logo

TYPE: DIGEST

                    Copyright 2002 Times Publishing Company


                              269 of 302 DOCUMENTS

                         St. Petersburg Times (Florida)

              February 08, 2002, Friday, 0 South Pinellas Edition

Ridge hints at E-Z pass to skirt security checks

SOURCE: Compiled from Times Wires

SECTION: NATIONAL; Pg. 10A

LENGTH: 719 words

DATELINE: WASHINGTON; KABUL, Afghanistan



Homeland Security director Tom Ridge said Thursday that government and airline
officials are at work on a frequent-flier ID card that - for a fee - would speed
regular travelers through airport security.

"I think people would pay for the convenience of easier and quicker access, so
we are discussing that," Ridge said. "It makes some sense to me."

A voluntary biometric identification system would be used to guarantee the
security of such "E-Z pass" cards, he said. Biometric systems use fingerprints
or retinal patterns to identify people.

Ridge said discussions on establishing such a system will continue when he meets
with airline industry officials next week.

Roundup of illegals starting next week

WASHINGTON - Federal agents will soon begin apprehending and interrogating
thousands of illegal Middle Eastern immigrants who have ignored deportation
orders, seeking ways to prosecute any who have ties to terrorism and compiling
the results of interviews in a new computer database, according to a Justice
Department memo.

The Jan. 25 memo instructs federal agents to find methods of detaining some of
the immigrants for possible criminal charges, rather than merely expelling them
from the United States as previously planned.

The tactics are part of the Immigration and Naturalization Service's efforts to
locate an estimated 314,000 foreign nationals, known as "absconders," who have
ignored court orders to leave the country. Justice Department and FBI officials
have said that the operation would focus first on about 6,000 immigrants from
countries identified as al-Qaida strongholds, though the vast majority of
absconders are Latin American.

Thursday, officials said the arrests will begin next week with a group of fewer
than 1,000 illegal immigrants, most from the Middle East and Pakistan, who are
believed to be the most dangerous because they are convicted felons.

Grand council organizing gets under way

KABUL, Afghanistan - A 21-member commission charged with organizing a loya
jirga, or grand council, formally convened Thursday in Kabul, with the country's
interim leader Hamid Karzai offering best wishes.

"Do good work," Karzai told the council and an audience of diplomats attending
the ceremony. "God bless you, and be successful."

The panel is led by Ismail Kassim Yar, an expert in constitutional law.

The nation's ethnic, regional and religious groups will participate in the loya
jirga. They will chose a transitional government to rule for 18 months in the
run-up to Afghan elections. It must convene before the interim government's
six-month term expires.

The loya jirga itself is expected to be convened by Afghanistan's exiled monarch
Mohammed Zaher Shah. The last jirga he convened was in the 1960s.

E-mail linked to kidnapping recovered

 Pakistani police have recovered e-mails linked to the kidnapping of Wall Street
Journal reporter Daniel Pearl from the computer hard drive of a suspect in the
case, officials said Thursday.

The discovery of the e-mails is a major breakthrough in the case, providing a
link to the chief suspect, Ahmad Omar Saeed Sheikh, a young Islamic militant and
suspected member of a radical group linked to al-Qaida.

After a raid Sunday, police detained three people and seized a laptop computer
belonging to Farhad Naseem, according to police Inspector Qamer Ahmed.

The inspector said the two e-mails were recovered from Naseem's laptop. Naseem,
who remains in police custody, admitted receiving the e-mails from Saeed, the
Muslim militant.

The owner of the service provider said Naseem had erased his files and browser
but had neglected to clean his hard drive, which contained the messages.

The 38-year-old journalist has not been found.

Attack negligence claims top $ 7-billion

From rescue workers who say they have lung problems to business owners who say
their shops were damaged, 1,300 people have given notice they may sue the city
for a total of $ 7.18-billion over the aftermath of the World Trade Center
attack.

The claims involve injuries or damage caused not by the attack itself but by the
alleged negligence of the city during the recovery and cleanup.

The vast majority are from firefighters who say the city gave them inadequate
respiratory protection at the smoldering trade center site.


LOAD-DATE: February 8, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: DIGEST

                    Copyright 2002 Times Publishing Company


                              270 of 302 DOCUMENTS

                         St. Petersburg Times (Florida)

                           February 17, 2002, Sunday

Ashcroft thinks himself a philosopher king

BYLINE: ROBYN E. BLUMNER

SECTION: PERSPECTIVE; Pg. 1D

LENGTH: 852 words



As more than a casual observer of Attorney General John Ashcroft since he took
office a year ago, I believe the man fancies himself the embodiment of Plato's
Philosopher King. Ashcroft sees himself as blessed with the insight to know
better than anyone what is best for society and therefore believes it
appropriate to bestow upon himself absolute power.

Especially since Sept. 11, Ashcroft's unilateralist fingerprints can be found
all over national policy. From his insistence that the Taliban and al-Qaida
prisoners at Guantanamo not be subject to international law to his suggestion
before Congress that anyone who questions his amassing of unchecked
investigative authority is assisting terrorists, Ashcroft has used this national
emergency to consolidate power in the executive branch and his office in
particular.

No group knows this better than immigrants. There are about 460 immigrants
picked up during the sweeps since Sept. 11 who are still sitting in jails and
detention centers awaiting deportion, criminal trials or release. Only a
relative handful have been accused of being part of the terrorist attacks; most
are there on technical immigration violations. Even so, Ashcroft refuses to
release any information on their identity or fate, repeatedly defying members of
Congress who have written him for an accounting.

Philosopher kings aren't answerable to anyone.

Ashcroft's power grab is even creating a pall of repression over his own ranks.
The nation's 221 immigration judges have petitioned Congress to get out from
under the attorney general's rule. They say, in a report issued in January, that
an independent immigration court under a separate executive branch agency, as
opposed to being an arm of the Justice Department, is the only way to restore
public confidence in the impartiality of immigration hearings.

Since the terror attacks, Ashcroft has taken a series of actions that remind us
of the attorney general's conflicting roles as head of the Immigration and
Naturalization Service and the immigration courts - meaning he is both chief
prosecutor and chief judge. Ashcroft closed the records and barred the public
from the immigration court proceedings for all Sept. 11 detainees - a
determination that used to be made on a case-by-case basis by immigration judges
- and he gave INS attorneys the option of keeping immigrants imprisoned
indefinitely even after an immigration judge has ordered them freed for lack of
evidence. In their report to Congress, the immigration judges say these
emasculating measures, as well as others over the past 20 years, point up the
"inherent conflict of interest caused by housing the Immigration Court within
DOJ."

But Dan Nelson, a spokesperson for DOJ, said the department would not support an
independent immigration court system. "Principally because the immigration
courts and Board of Immigration Appeals exercise the authority of the attorney
general to enforce the immigration laws of the United States," Nelson told the
Los Angeles Times. In other words, Ashcroft doesn't want objective and impartial
immigration courts. He wants puppets.

What philosopher king wouldn't?

Immigration Judge Dana Marks Keener, president of the National Association of
Immigration Judges, is careful to say her organization doesn't "think it's
productive to make this a personal attack on the attorney general." She points
to a bipartisan, congressionally appointed commission report released in 1997
that recommends the removal of the immigration courts from DOJ control and notes
that the issue has been kicking around for years. Her group decided to press the
issue now, she says, because the administration has announced plans to
reorganize the INS and possibly the DOJ.

Very politic. But really, who would blame the immigration judges for being
worried about their judicial independence with Ashcroft trolling for power? They
must have watched in horror when, in the first antiterrorism bill Ashcroft
brought before Congress, he proposed giving himself the authority to
indefinitely detain any non-citizen he believed may endanger the national
security. The measure specifically stripped the immigration courts of any
authority to review the legitimacy of the detention. Even a rah-rah Congress
couldn't stomach that one.

Now, as a way of addressing a 55,000-case backlog, Ashcroft has proposed
slashing the number of appellate immigration judges from 23 to 11. Under the
plan, most appeals will no longer be heard by a three-judge panel but by a
single judge (which is supposed to explain why cutting court personnel by more
than 50 percent will reduce a backlog). The changes will adversely impact due
process rights while tightening Ashcroft's grip over the immigration court's
decisionmakers.

Plato envisioned an enlightened despot of vigorous intellect making decisions
for the good of society. But history tells us that men who believe they belong
in that role shouldn't have it. Ashcroft may see himself as a modern incarnation
of the philosopher king, but that's only because he is looking into a very
warped mirror.


LOAD-DATE: February 17, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: PHOTO; John Ashcroft

TYPE: COLUMN

                    Copyright 2002 Times Publishing Company


                              271 of 302 DOCUMENTS

                         St. Petersburg Times (Florida)

             February 21, 2002, Thursday, 0 South Pinellas Edition

Embassy in Rome may have been terror plot target

SOURCE: Compiled from Times Wires

SECTION: NATIONAL; Pg. 9A

LENGTH: 521 words

DATELINE: ROME



Authorities were detaining four Moroccan immigrants Wednesday who may have been
planning a terror attack on the U.S. Embassy in Rome, police said.

In a raid on the men's apartment in a Rome suburb, the police found maps
highlighting the location of the American embassy and diagrams of the city's
water supply system as well as 10 pounds of a chemical substance containing
cyanide. The chemical, potassium ferrocyanide, would not have posed a threat to
the city's water system.

Later, Italian Chief Prosecutor Salvatore Vecchione said judicial police
tentatively had identified the bag's contents as potassium ferrocyanide. That
compound, used to make wine and ink dye, contains small amounts of cyanide and
is harmless when dissolved in water, according to Rome University pharmacologist
Luciano Caprino.

The embassy, in a former royal villa on Rome's famed Via Veneto, came under
threat of an attempted al-Qaida terror attack a year ago.

The embassy was forced to close for a few days in January 2001 after U.S.
intelligence picked up warning signs of a possible attack. Over the next 10
months, Italian police in Milan arrested seven Tunisian immigrants with alleged
links to al-Qaida who are believed to have been involved in the plot.

The seven are being tried in Milan on charges of trafficking in false documents,
violating immigration laws and criminal association with the intent to obtain
and transport weapons, explosives and chemicals.

At least one of the four arrested Moroccans is linked to the Milan cell, Italian
newspapers said. None of the four men, said to be in their 30s, was named.

"The embassy of the United States of America compliments the Italian police and
security forces for their excellent work concerning the most recent security
threat," said a statement issued by the embassy, which maintained a normal work
schedule Wednesday.

St. Petersburg developer and Republican fundraiser Mel Sembler is the ambassador
to Italy.

Meanwhile in Afghanistan, that county's foreign minister on Wednesday publicly
disputed Prime Minister Hamid Karzai's claim that high-ranking conspirators
within his own government assassinated the aviation minister.

Instead, he said the slaying was a crime of opportunity involving angry
pilgrims, including high-level government officials, on their way to Mecca in
Saudi Arabia.

"The perception is as if there has been a political plot," Abdullah said. "That
is not the case. It was not a premeditated plot."

Abdullah said the entire government, including Karzai, now believed that no
premeditated plot was involved, although Karzai made no comment on the incident
on Wednesday.

Rahman was killed last week by an angry mob after repeated delays of flights out
of Kabul. Karzai dismissed reports that the attack was carried out by pilgrims,
saying the murder was orchestrated by "assassins," including generals with the
intelligence service and defense ministry.

Karzai's surprising declaration fanned speculation that a power struggle was
intensifying between the interim government and influential members of the
U.S.-backed Northern Alliance.


LOAD-DATE: February 21, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: PHOTO, Associated Press; An Italian police officer guards the U.S.
Embassy in Rome after the arrest of four Moroccans believed ready to launch a
terror attack.

                    Copyright 2002 Times Publishing Company


                              272 of 302 DOCUMENTS

                         St. Petersburg Times (Florida)

              March 06, 2002, Wednesday, 0 South Pinellas Edition

Deportation trial opens for suspected Nazi helper

SOURCE: From staff and wire reports

SECTION: CITY & STATE; BRIEFLY; Pg. 3B

LENGTH: 596 words

DATELINE: BRADENTON; SEMINOLE; DAYTONA BEACH



A Lithuanian immigrant accused of collaborating with the Nazis during World War
II lied on immigration forms to gain entry into the United States, government
lawyers said as his deportation trial opened.

But the attorney representing Algimantas Dailide, 81, of St. Petersburg, argued
Monday that the documents on which prosecutors base their case may be fakes and
that a group Dailide admits working for wasn't under the control of the Nazis.

More than 50,000 Jews were killed during the war at Nazi-run execution pits in
Paneriai, a Lithuanian campground near where Dailide worked.

From 1941 to 1944, government lawyers say, Dailide turned Jews over to occupying
Nazi forces to be killed. In 1950, they said, Dailide lied on immigration forms
to enter the United States, saying he was a forester and denying he served on
police forces during the war.

Defense attorney Joseph T. McGinniss spent most of the day arguing that
Lithuania-related documents captured from Nazi files were possible fakes.

He said Lithuanian police files, opened after the country broke free from the
Soviet Union in 1991, could not prove the Lithuania police force Saugumas, for
which Dailide volunteered, was run by the Nazis. In interviews, Dailide has said
his job was to arrest communist sympathizers after the Nazis gained control of
Lithuania from Russia.

Kitchen fire damages

house, displaces family

SEMINOLE - A family of five was left homeless Tuesday when a fire started on a
stove and quickly spread to the kitchen cabinets.

The fire started as Fatmeh Shihadeh was pulling a loaf of bread out of her oven,
authorities said. She used a towel as an oven mitt to take the bread out, but
the towel caught fire.

Shihadeh dropped the burning towel on the stove, where it ignited some oils she
had on the stove top, said Alison Shanabrook, spokeswoman for the Seminole Fire
Department.

Flames spread to the kitchen cabinets. Shihadeh grabbed her 1-year-old daughter
and fled the home, Shanabrook said.

No one was injured.

Firefighters were called to 101152 115th Ave. N at 12:21 p.m. They arrived five
minutes later and contained the fire to the kitchen. It was under control by
12:34 p.m., Shanabrook said.

Still, heat and smoke had spread throughout the home, causing about $ 25,000 in
damage. The two-bedroom, concrete-block home was uninhabitable, and the family
was being assisted by the American Red Cross.

Shihadeh's husband, Ahmed, was not home at the time nor were the couple's two
other children, who are elementary-school age, Shanabrook said.

"Big Daddy Rat' Smith,

Bike Week promoter, dies

DAYTONA BEACH - Karl "Big Daddy Rat" Smith, a merchant who helped promote the
city's Bike Week for more than 30 years, died of a heart attack at his
daughter's home Monday - the first day of this year's Bike Week. He was 74.

Smith had been in poor health for the past two years but continued to stage
custom motorcycle shows in Daytona Beach during Bike Week and Biketoberfest, and
in Germany, Sweden, Holland, and Sturgis, S.D., family members said.

During this Bike Week, Smith was to receive an award for his efforts to foster
Bike Week activities. Big Daddy Rat's Motorcycle Show will go on Saturday as
planned at the Ocean Center.

Smith's store, the Rat's Hole T-shirt and gift shop, with its trademark rodent
figure logo, served as the base for his work.

Before coming to Daytona Beach in the 1960s, he had worked in screen printing of
textiles in St. Petersburg, where he opened his first Rat's Hole on First Avenue
S.

- From staff and wire reports


LOAD-DATE: March 6, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: PHOTO, (2); Algimantas Dailide; Karl "Big Daddy Rat" Smith

TYPE: DIGEST

                    Copyright 2002 Times Publishing Company


                              273 of 302 DOCUMENTS

                         St. Petersburg Times (Florida)

              March 13, 2002, Wednesday, 0 South Pinellas Edition

Canada's population passes 30-million

SOURCE: Compiled from Times Wires

SECTION: NATIONAL; Pg. 16A

LENGTH: 533 words

DATELINE: TORONTO; WASHINGTON



Canada's population has reached the 30-million mark, increasing 4 percent over
the past five years largely because of immigration, according to census results
released Tuesday.

Population growth was slowed as a result of a declining rate in births coupled
with an increasing death rate, according to the first figures from the May 2001
census.

The current population is 30,007,094, an increase of 1,160,333 since 1996. The 4
percent growth over that period was one of the smallest increases since the
country began census studies in 1871.

For the first time since World War II, immigration was the main source of
population growth.

"Up to 60 percent of the total growth is due to immigration," said Doug Norris,
a Statistics Canada demographer. "Areas that receive immigrants really are
growing at a much higher rate than the rest of the country."

Most immigrants settle in urban areas, particularly in Ontario, with almost 80
percent of Canadians living in cities of 10,000 or more and 51 percent in the
major urban centers, according to the census figures.

Ontario's population increase of 656,000 people made up 57 percent of Canada's
total gain. More than half the immigrants who arrived from 1996 to 2001 settled
in the province, the most populous with 11.4-million people.

Russian defense chief meets Bush

WASHINGTON - Russian Defense Minister Sergei Ivanov carried the Kremlin's
concerns about potential targeting of Russia with nuclear weapons to the
Pentagon on Tuesday but skirted the issue in a meeting with President Bush.

Instead, Ivanov said, he talked to the president about plans for U.S. and
Russian nuclear weapons reductions and countering terrorism.

Ivanov called the White House meeting "rather warm and productive" and said he
did not take up with Bush a new Pentagon study that suggests nuclear weapons
could be targeted on Russia and six other nations.

The Kremlin has demanded an explanation, and Ivanov is pursuing the issue in two
days of talks with Defense Secretary Donald Rumsfeld.

The National Security Council spokesman Sean McCormack said Bush raised the
issue of nuclear weapons, but "only in the context of reiterating his commitment
to reduce U.S. offensive nuclear arms to the range the U.S. is committed to."

Navy copter crashes in Europe

WASHINGTON - A Navy helicopter with a crew of three crashed into the
Mediterranean Sea on Tuesday while on a training flight, the Pentagon said.

The SH-60B Seahawk was assigned to Helicopter Squadron Light 46, based in
Mayport. The helicopter crashed off the coast of Greece while operating from the
destroyer USS Hayler.

A spokesman for the U.S. Navy's 6th Fleet, Lt. Cmdr. Nick Balice, said, "The
search-and-rescue effort continues. We have found some pieces of debris. We have
not found the crew members yet."

The cause of the crash was under investigated.

WHAT A PRINCESS: Three-month-old Princess Aiko of  is held by her mother, Crown
Princess Masako, earlier this month at their Togu Palace residence in Tokyo.
Aiko, the newest member of Japan's royal family, is expected at the Imperial
Palace shrine today for a ttraditional ritual of prayers for good health for
newborn babies.


LOAD-DATE: March 13, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: PHOTO, Associated Press; Three-month-old Princess Aiko of Japan is held
by her mother, Crown Princess Masako

TYPE: DIGEST

                    Copyright 2002 Times Publishing Company


                              274 of 302 DOCUMENTS

                         St. Petersburg Times (Florida)

              March 13, 2002, Wednesday, 0 South Pinellas Edition

IMMIGRATION // Dead terrorists earn U.S. student visas

BYLINE: MIKE BRASSFIELD; CHUCK MURPHY

SECTION: NATIONAL; Pg. 1A

LENGTH: 715 words



Six months after terrorists flew jetliners into the World Trade Center towers, a
Florida flight school that trained two of the hijackers received some surprising
paperwork in the mail:

The dead hijackers' student visas had finally been approved by the federal
government.

The bureaucratic fiasco prompted intense criticism Tuesday of the Immigration
and Naturalization Service, an agency under considerable scrutiny since Sept.
11. The post-mortem visas reflect a bloated INS bureaucracy repeatedly exploited
by terrorists, critics said.

"Every time you think you've heard the worst that can possibly happen, something
worse happens. It's hard to even respond to it, it's just so bad," said U.S.
Rep. Bob Barr, R-Ga., who added the INS should be "overhauled from top to
bottom."

The two terrorists believed to have been at the controls of the planes that hit
the World Trade Center towers were 33-year-old Mohamed Atta, thought to be the
ringleader of the Sept. 11 attacks, and Marwan al-Shehhi, his 23-year-old
cousin. None of the other hijackers on the planes that hit the towers was known
to have had pilot training.

For several months in 2000, Atta and al-Shehhi were student pilots at Huffman
Aviation, a flight school in Venice, 60 miles south of the Tampa Bay area. They
applied for student visas in August 2000.

On Monday - 19 months later - Huffman Aviation received mailed notices that the
INS had approved Atta's and al-Shehhi's student visas. The documents changed the
dead men's legal status from tourists to student pilots and cleared them to take
pilot lessons.

Rudi Dekkers, the school's owner, was stunned.

Dekkers, who faced scrutiny from the FBI and the media after Sept. 11 for
admitting the two students to his school, said the forms prove he followed the
law.

"What is odd to me is that the visas were approved six months after they left
(the school)," Dekkers said. "It's very strange. I have no idea why it took so
long."

INS spokesman Russ Bergeron acknowledged the late-arriving visa approvals were
"certainly embarrassing" and "regrettable." He said a data-entry backlog caused
the delay.

While the paperwork for Atta and al-Shehhi didn't arrive at Huffman until
Monday, the visas were actually approved by the INS in July and August of 2001,
about a year after the men applied.

"At the time, there was no information made available to INS regarding these
people and their link to terrorism," Bergeron said.

He said the INS notified the men and the school last summer about the approvals.
He described the paperwork Huffman received this week as "backup notification."

An INS clerk issued the visas Oct. 1, 2001, three weeks after the attacks,
either not recognizing or ignoring the names on the forms. It wasn't clear
Tuesday why it took another five months for the visa approvals to be mailed out.

A contractor handles data entry and mails out notifications for the INS,
Bergeron said. But the company wasn't told the data entry and notification for
Atta and al-Shehhi was no longer necessary.

Atta and al-Shehhi had been in the United States on tourist visas. Foreign
students are generally allowed to study in the United States as long as they
apply for student visas, Bergeron said.

He said the tardy letters show "the current process for collecting information
and tracking information on students doesn't work."

The INS is testing an Internet-based tracking system designed to keep a closer
watch on foreign students and provide instant notification of visa changes. It
is uncertain when the system will be fully operational.

The incident provoked howls of outrage Tuesday from Capitol Hill.

"This shows once again the complete incompetence of the immigration service to
enforce our laws and protect our borders," said Rep. James Sensenbrenner,
R-Wis., who has co-sponsored legislation to break up the agency. "If you look at
the chronology of this, it shows why the INS has to be dismantled and put back
together again."

Rep. Elton Gallegly, R-Calif., a member of the House subcommittee that oversees
immigration issues, said the INS had no excuse because Atta's face had been on
television after Sept. 11 "more than the president."

- Information from Times wires and the Venice Gondolier was used in this report.


LOAD-DATE: March 13, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: PHOTO, (3); Mohamed Atta; Marwan al-Shehhi; Vote-counting begins in
Zimbabwe elections.

                    Copyright 2002 Times Publishing Company


                              275 of 302 DOCUMENTS

                         St. Petersburg Times (Florida)

                March 15, 2002, Friday, 0 South Pinellas Edition

INS incompetence

SECTION: EDITORIAL; EDITORIALS; Pg. 16A

LENGTH: 606 words



Six months after terrorist attacks on the World Trade Center towers and
Pentagon, Americans paid tearful tribute to the victims. The Immigration and
Naturalization Service, on the other hand, unwittingly marked the occasion with
a humiliating admission of its own incompetence. It mailed out written approval
of student visas for Mohamed Atta, the apparent leader of the hijackers, and
Marwan al-Shehhi, one of his accomplices.

By March 11, when the Florida flight school that trained Atta and al-Shehhi got
the INS letter, the terrorists were dead and their infamous deed already avenged
in military strikes against al-Qaida in Afghanistan. In fact, the terrorists had
completed their flight training at Huffman Aviation in Venice months before the
INS even began to consider its approval for them to do so.

Condemnation of the INS was swift and warranted. "This shows once again the
complete incompetence of the immigration service to enforce our laws and protect
our borders," said U.S. Rep. F. James Sensenbrenner Jr., R-Wis., who has written
legislation to split the agency in two (border enforcement and immigration
services) and start anew.

It may be too early to say precisely how a new immigration service would be
reorganized, but the flaws in the current system are obvious. The INS has become
an arrogant bureaucracy that is resistant to change, and its resources are
inadequate to meet its contradictory responsibilities. Yet it is not the only
federal agency that failed to stop the terrorist attacks. The CIA and FBI, also
under congressional scrutiny, performed no better.

Lax visa controls have suited U.S. colleges and trade schools that depend on
billions of dollars in tuition from foreign students. When the INS was forced to
account for those students earlier this year, it had to admit it had little idea
where to find more than 500,000 of them. A computer network to keep track of
those visas is not even scheduled to come on line until next year.

The challenge for the INS, or an agency that replaces it, is enormous. In
addition to accounting for foreign students, it must protect the country's
borders and control its ports of entry. Hundreds of thousands of foreign
visitors enter the country each day, and at least 7-million illegal aliens
remain here, far outnumbering the 2,000 immigration enforcement agents. Under
pressure from Congress, the INS had diverted resources to patrol the Mexican
border, which proved not to be a factor in keeping out the terrorists who
perpetrated the Sept. 11 attacks.

So Congress deserves some of the blame for the agency's inadequacies. Yet it is
hard to imagine how anyone could have damaged the INS' reputation more than it
did itself with the current visa mistake.

On Sept. 12, a day after the attack, Atta and others were widely identified as
likely suspects, their names forever linked to the crime. Yet on Oct. 1, an INS
clerk mindlessly issued Atta and al-Shehhi their student visas. This month, the
agency belatedly but blithely mailed out the official visa approval.

Americans are left to suspect that human intervention and critical judgment are
absent at the INS, as the bureaucracy's gears automatically crank out visas to
nearly any foreign visitor who applies. Couldn't even one alert INS clerk have
flagged the names of Atta and the other suspects so that their records were
removed from the production line?

Apparently not, and that is as damning a case against the INS as any that has
been made. Now, the question should not be whether the INS deserves to survive
as currently configured, but how quickly we can fix a broken agency.


LOAD-DATE: March 15, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: EDITORIAL

                    Copyright 2002 Times Publishing Company


                              276 of 302 DOCUMENTS

                         St. Petersburg Times (Florida)

                March 15, 2002, Friday, 0 South Pinellas Edition

FIGHTING TERROR // INS didn't get into trouble all by itself

BYLINE: CHUCK MURPHY

SECTION: NATIONAL; Pg. 1A

LENGTH: 994 words



It has been called the Rodney Dangerfield of federal agencies.

The Immigration and Naturalization Service gets no respect. Its managers have
been criticized over the years for moving too deliberately, creating a backlog
of citizenship applications. And for moving too quickly, allowing questionable
immigrants and terrorists into the U.S.

That criticism intensified after Tuesday's revelation that the INS continued to
process student visas for two of Sept. 11's dead hijackers after the World Trade
Center and Pentagon were attacked.

Sen. Bob Graham called the INS "out of control." Attorney General John Ashcroft
called INS quality control "inferior," and the president said he was "plenty
hot."

But the agency that was created in the 1800s to screen our immigrant ancestors
for "idiots, lunatics, convicts and persons likely to become a public charge"
has had plenty of presidential and congressional help in occasionally failing in
that mission.

Two-year backlogs of citizenship applications. A more than one-year wait for a
temporary work permit. Missions directed from the White House and Capitol Hill
that swung wildly from protecting the U.S.-Mexican border, to securing the
Canadian forests while preparing to grant amnesty to illegal Mexican immigrants.

A series of Justice Department inquiries and congressional hearings into the
INS's problems have consistently failed to change the course of the agency.
Critics say the INS is now strangled by obsolete technology, bloated management
and a murky mission that changes frequently depending upon presidential whim,
congressional appropriations and special-interest pressure.

"Congress and successive (presidential) administrations are responsible for this
by failing to define the proper mission. They need consistent direction," said
Mark Krikorian, executive director of the Center for Immigration Studies, a
Washington research institute that advocates tighter immigration controls. "It's
like America's DMV, only it's worse than most states' DMVs are."

The imbroglio over the visas issued to Mohamed Atta and Marwhan al-Shehhi may
also signal a greater willingness in Washington to criticize the failures of
Sept. 11.

An investigation under the direction of Florida Sen. Bob Graham, a Democrat, and
Rep. Porter Goss, a Republican from southwest Florida, is now under way.
Hearings, both in public and private, on any intelligence failures uncovered by
that inquiry will take place this summer.

"We're all going to be wanting answers now," said Rep. Mark Foley, R-West Palm
Beach. "We've been patient for six months, wanting to make sure that enough time
passed to ask the right questions. There's no question that the time is coming."

The time is now for the INS.

On Thursday, Rep. James Sensenbrenner, R-Wis., chairman of the House Judiciary
Committee, went on television to tout his plan for breaking the INS into two
parts - both under the control of an assistant attorney general rather than an
INS director.

"It certainly showed how incompetent the INS is," Sensenbrenner, R-Wis., said on
CBS's The Early Show. "It is one fiasco after the other."

Sensenbrenner's comments were criticized by the union representing 24,000 INS
employees. The American Federation of Government Employees said a private
Kentucky contractor that processed the visa forms was really to blame.

"Experienced INS workers who have been working 12-hour shifts to fight the war
on terrorism should not be wrongly accused for a contractor's serious error,"
said Bobby L. Harnage, national president of the union.

Much of the concern over INS has been focused in recent years on what are called
"nonimmigrant" visas, issued at U.S. consuls to business visitors, tourists,
temporary workers and students. Those are the kind that were approved for Atta
and al-Shehhi before their death but then issued afterward.

Atta, who initially entered the country on a tourist visa, was questioned at
Miami International Airport about his plans to take classes, but he was allowed
to enter the country after an INS supervisor was satisfied that the proper
application had been made to change his status to student.

In 2000, 7.1-million people arrived using those nonimmigrant visas, but as Sen.
Dianne Feinstein noted last October, "The INS does not have a reliable tracking
system to determine how many of these visitors left the country after their
visas expired."

Hastened by Sept. 11, that $ 32.3-million system is now in the works. Whose
fault is it that it doesn't yet exist? That depends on whom you ask.

Foley points to regular congressional budget increases for INS as proof that the
money was there for improvements to technology and says the money was misspent.

"We've elevated funding at their request every year. We've done what we were
asked," Foley said. "It's been a management issue there."

But will the visa-tracking computer become a reality? The story of Section 110
suggests that it could face obstacles.

Section 110 was part of 1996's Illegal Immigration Reform and Immigration
Responsibility Act. It would have created a computer system to track people
going to and coming from Canada. INS officials believed it would help them evict
those who overstayed their visas and serve as a pilot program for other tracking
databases.

But after complaints, particularly from Michigan congressmen who were worried
about long lines at the border, the computer never materialized. Under new
legislation, an automated entry system is supposed to be in place in 2005. But
for now, the U.S.-Canada border remains largely open.

Krikorian, of the immigration research center, said the only logical course now
is to slow immigration while Congress takes its time to produce real reforms.

"When a drain is clogged, the first thing you do is turn off the water,"
Krikorian said. "You don't start by mopping the floor."

- Information from the Associated Press was used in this report.


LOAD-DATE: March 15, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: PHOTO, Associated Press; Rep. James Sensenbrenner, R-Wis., chairman of
the House Judiciary Committee, denounces the INS in Washington.

                    Copyright 2002 Times Publishing Company


                              277 of 302 DOCUMENTS

                         St. Petersburg Times (Florida)

               March 16, 2002, Saturday, 0 South Pinellas Edition

Witness: Other sheriff slaying urged

SOURCE: Compiled from Wire Reports

SECTION: NATIONAL; Pg. 5A

LENGTH: 381 words

DATELINE: DECATUR, Ga.



A former sheriff charged in the slaying of a reformer who beat him in an
election wanted to have another sheriff killed four years earlier, a witness
testified Friday.

The former county jailer's testimony came during the murder trial of two men
charged along with former DeKalb County Sheriff Sidney Dorsey in the slaying of
Derwin Brown, who was gunned down three days before taking office.

Patrick Cuffy said Dorsey made the suggestion in 1996 after Bob Morris beat him
in a special election for DeKalb County sheriff. Cuffy said Dorsey believed he
might become sheriff if Morris was killed.

Haitian detainees file bias suit

MIAMI - Haitian refugees detained for months by the Immigration and
Naturalization Service sued the agency Friday, saying a discriminatory policy
keeps them locked up while refugees from other countries are released.

Immigrant advocates filed the lawsuit that asks a federal judge to order the INS
to release the detainees while they apply for asylum, to stop using race and
nationality as a factor in release decisions, and to reconsider release requests
already denied. The suit also asks the judge to certify a class action.

Also . . .

GOLDEN KNIGHTS CRASH: An airplane used by the Golden Knights military parachute
team collided with a civilian plane during a practice jump near a rural Arizona
airport Friday, a military spokeswoman said. The military pilot was killed, said
Lt. Col. Marian Hansen. The four parachutists had jumped from the plane before
the collision. The civilian plane, a Cessna, landed safely, said Keith Holloway,
a spokesman for the National Transportation Safety Board.

ANTIMISSILE TEST SUCCESSFUL: An interceptor rocket smashed into a dummy warhead
140 miles over the Pacific on Friday night in the fourth successful test of part
of the planned U.S. missile defense system, a Pentagon spokeswoman said. The
test was the sixth of the prototype.

FATHER KILLS FAMILY, SELF: A father apparently shot his four children and wife
to death in their bedrooms, then used the shotgun to kill himself, authorities
in McMinnville, Ore., said Friday. The shootings are believed to have occurred
nearly three weeks before sheriff's deputies found the bodies Thursday night,
said Yamhill County prosecutor Bradley C. Berry.


LOAD-DATE: March 16, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: DIGEST

                    Copyright 2002 Times Publishing Company


                              278 of 302 DOCUMENTS

                         St. Petersburg Times (Florida)

                March 17, 2002, Sunday, 0 South Pinellas Edition

Immigrant population tops births as growth rate slows

BYLINE: JIM FOX

SECTION: NATIONAL; THE CANADA REPORT; Pg. 16A

LENGTH: 407 words



Immigrants have taken over from baby boomers as Canada's population climbed by
only 4 percent in the last five years to top 30-million.

Statistics Canada said the latest census shows 30,007,094 residents, with
immigration outpacing natural population increases for the first time since
World War II.

The population growth was almost 1.2-million people from five years earlier.

Demographers said baby boomers are past their child-rearing prime, and Canada
must look overseas if it is to offset declining fertility and rising death
rates.

"You have at least a 10-year deficit of children," said Francois Nault, a
StatsCan analyst.

Growth in the big cities is booming, with 51 percent of Canadians living in four
major urban regions - Toronto, Montreal, Vancouver and Calgary-Edmonton.

The prosperous and job-rich provinces of Alberta and Ontario had population
increases of 10.3 and 6.1 percent respectively.

Prime Minister Jean Chretien said it's a "pity" population growth slowed but he
expressed optimism about immigration.

For the first time in 100 years, Canada's population growth rate was lower than
that of the United States.

In brief

+A fierce windstorm in Ontario and Quebec last weekend uprooted trees and downed
power lines. The icy winds exceeded 60 mph, with some roofs blown off buildings,
trees and large signs toppled, and power cut for up to 100,000 customers, more
than half of them in Quebec.

+Relatives of about 50 women missing from Vancouver's downtown eastside were
asked to view photographs of items that might have belonged to them. Police have
arrested Robert Pickton, 52, of Port Coquitlam for first-degree murder in the
deaths of two of the women. It was the first break in the case of the 20 years
of disappearances of women, many of them prostitutes or drug addicts.

Facts and figures

Comments by Deputy Prime Minister John Manley that uncompetitive companies are
hooked on the low Canadian dollar caused the currency to drop almost a half-cent
to 62.65 U.S. cents, before bank exchange fees. The U.S. greenback is worth $
1.5960 Canadian.

The Bank of Canada's key interest rate of 2 percent and the prime lending rate
at 3.75 percent are unchanged.

Stock markets were lower, with the Toronto Exchange 300 index at 7,864 points
and the Canadian Venture Exchange, 1,153 points.

Lotto 6-49: (Wednesday) 12, 14, 20, 23, 43 and 47; bonus 3. (March 9) 4, 6, 16,
38, 44 and 45; bonus 9.


LOAD-DATE: March 18, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                    Copyright 2002 Times Publishing Company


                              279 of 302 DOCUMENTS

                         St. Petersburg Times (Florida)

                             March 17, 2002, Sunday

Media should focus on immigration

SECTION: PERSPECTIVE; LETTERS; Pg. 2D

LENGTH: 1379 words



Re: Could this happen again?

Part of the answer depends on the ability and determination of the media to prod
politicians to act on our immigration problem. On the front page of the Times
Nov. 25, 2001, headlined Loopholes leave U.S. borders vulnerable, was an article
depicting the lack of ability and acumen of the Immigration and Naturalization
Service. One would think that after such a thought-provoking article, there
would be almost daily reports concerning this serious problem.

Apparently, lobbyists have the power to sweep the immigration issue under the
rug. Even former President Clinton's indiscretions gained more time and energy
from the media than the fact that we are harboring terrorists within our borders
because legal and illegal immigration is out of control.

Special-interest groups in Washington have made immigration "untouchable." The
head of homeland security, to my knowledge, has not come down on the inept INS.
It seems their excuse for blatant blunders since 1993 is that they are
undermanned. If that were really the case, something like a two-year moratorium
would surely help. Unfortunately, that won't happen, owing to immigration's
status as a sacred cow, to be left alone for the folly of special-interest
groups and not for the well-being of the citizens of our country. It seems that
this is so clandestine that a lot of capital must be involved.

Does Washington think more of the tourist industry, cheap labor and student
exchange than of our safety? Politicians say we need immigration but never say
why, except that we've always had it. That certainly is "logical," considering
that for more than 100 years women were not allowed to vote, but we woke up and
corrected that wrong.

What Americans know about current events is what they see on television or read
in the newspaper. And what becomes important issues to them are items that are
placed before them in an ongoing fashion. Ninety percent of Americans know the
name Monica Lewinsky, but does anyone know who heads the INS?

Warren Friel, South Pasadena

Muslim schools' indoctrination

Re: Torn between two worlds, by Valerie Strauss and Emily Wax, March 10.

It is, indeed, true that Jews and Catholics in the past had to face the
experience of teaching their children in a pluralistic America that was founded
on Protestant Christianity and established to promote freedom and limit
authority. As you say, the Muslim community now faces the same challenge.

I was raised in a strict Roman Catholic family, instructed in Catholic parochial
grammar schools, high school and a top-notch Catholic University. Looking back,
some of the early-grade instruction was ludicrous. We were told not to associate
with Protestants, and constantly told that we were a minority among the
heretics. All history was slanted to prove the Catholics were right and the
Protestants were wrong.

The schools enforced discipline, and if you slipped, you were sent to the hated
"publics." Priests and nuns were messengers of God. One had to attend church
faithfully and contribute money or fear "losing the faith."

They were similar in many ways to the Muslim schools described, except for one
thing: The Catholic schools taught a fervent patriotism. Catholic boys were
expected to enlist in wartime. We all swore to defend God and country.
Allegiance to America and to all the freedoms guaranteed in the Bill of Rights
was drummed into us firmly, possibly because Catholics, as a minority, treasured
the protections given them in this country even if they believed the majority
was wrong. Even today, government agencies such as the FBI and the CIA are eager
to hire patriotic graduates of Catholic parochial schools.

This attitude of reverence for America is lacking in the Muslim schools. By
teaching allegiance to a foreign religion with outspoken hostility toward
America, the Muslim schools are instilling dangerous tendencies. Young children
are not capable of differentiating between truth and fiction in school and some
grow up never questioning what they were taught. This policy is dangerous to the
children and to the country.

As they grew older, many Catholic children from the parochial schools began to
question what they had been taught. Thoughtful people left the church. I did.
However, I cannot accuse the Catholic school system of ever instilling
disloyalty to the country that gave that church religious freedom.

I fear that the Muslim schools cannot say this.

Mary T. Dresser, Clearwater

Teaching a parrot?

Re: Bush hooked on reading model, March 10.

Would that both Bush boys had more wisdom when it comes to ordaining the
education of America's and Florida's children. I am a retired teacher/educator
who continues to teach part time, because of my love for education. For many
years, I specialized in the field of teaching and reading both to children and
to adults. Several of the statements in last Sunday's article are enough to
insult every parent and teacher, particularly the one about the proposed program
which the governor wishes to mandate that every school and teacher use.

I quote: "After first grade, teachers build vocabulary and fluency. Then comes
comprehension." What happens to the comprehension and knowledge that a child has
during the first six or seven years of life with that program? It sounds like
"teaching a parrot" program.

I am shocked that a psychology professor at Florida State University advocates
"focus on simple language." Young children learn to read "automobile" and
"cornucopia" as easily as they do "car" and "horn." Doesn't he know about
psycholinguistics and learning? Maybe all teachers would benefit from some
in-service training with the LEA (Language Experience Approach), which would not
necessitate spending millions of dollars on new programs. The best place to put
the $ 98-million from federal and state funds, the cost to mandate the new
program, is into decreasing the number of students per teacher, restoring the
reading resource teachers, and anything other than that which the governor is
proposing.

Yes, I am concerned about the education of our children and the spending of our
tax dollars. Aren't you, too?

Beth Stevenson, St. Petersburg

Police professionalism

Re: A no-frills assignment, March 10.

I hope most readers enjoyed the positive story about St. Petersburg police
Officer Carrie LeBlanc passing the arduous program to become the city's only
female SWAT officer.

I am impressed by Officer LeBlanc's accomplishment, because she hurdled a tough
process, and she doesn't appear to rely on brawn. It is positive she was
encouraged to try out by a male SWAT instructor and that another male officer
kids her about needing to put her sweat-drenched hair in a band. While
gender-specific, that comment is humorous and should be normal banter in such a
cohesive team as SWAT.

The profile of Officer LeBlanc is a testament to growing professionalism in law
enforcement as well as a sober reminder why we need SWAT and officers who are
"warriors" as required. This complements and reinforces the modern strategy of
community policing, which appears to be mandatory as urban society becomes more
diverse. I have great respect for the men and women in law enforcement who do
this and live by a code of professional conduct.

James R. Gillespie, St. Petersburg

Raise cigarette tax

Re: Let's have more substance and less rhetoric, by Philip Gailey, March 3.

You point out the Democratic candidates for governor can't dodge laying out
their alternatives to Gov. Jeb Bush's policies. Here's a "red meat" suggestion:
Why don't the Democrats propose a tax increase on cigarettes?

One of the most effective ways to reduce teen smoking is to raise the price of
cigarettes through tax increases. Florida is 28th in national ranking at 33.9
cents tax per pack. Why not raise the tax to $ 1 per pack?

Florida last raised the state tax on cigarettes on July 1, 1990. Florida's youth
smoking rate is still at 19 percent. The revenue raised could be used to assist
lagging budgets for underachieving students in the public schools of Florida.

Let's hear from the candidates. Are campaign contributions influencing what
they'll do about this issue?

Bert Blomquist, Tampa


LOAD-DATE: March 17, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: LETTER

                    Copyright 2002 Times Publishing Company


                              280 of 302 DOCUMENTS

                         St. Petersburg Times (Florida)

              March 20, 2002, Wednesday, 0 South Pinellas Edition

Agency weighs tougher visa rules

SOURCE: Compiled from Times Wires

SECTION: NATIONAL; Pg. 1A

LENGTH: 789 words

DATELINE: WASHINGTON



The head of the embattled immigration service told skeptical House members
Tuesday that changes in how visas are granted will help protect the nation after
terrorists exploited a porous system to strike on Sept. 11.

James Ziglar, who became commissioner of the Immigration and Naturalization
Service the month before the attacks, tried to explain an embarrassing
disclosure last week. An INS contractor sent out visa notifications to a flight
school in Venice, Fla., for two hijackers who had destroyed the World Trade
Center towers in their suicide mission six months before.

Ziglar said the agency is considering stringent reforms that include limiting
millions of foreign visitors to 30-day stays in the United States.

The INS commissioner also said he is considering prohibiting anyone who has
entered the United States on a tourist, business or other kind of visa from
attending school here until the INS approves a change to student status.

While acknowledging the agency was to blame for the visa error, Ziglar told a
House Judiciary committee, "That mailing is a direct result of the obsolete
technology and overly bureaucratic processes that we're trying to correct."

The White House, meanwhile, is nearing a decision on merging the INS and the
Customs Service in an effort to better protect U.S. borders and enhance homeland
security.

President Bush was reviewing the plan, which has been endorsed by his top
advisers, on Tuesday and could make a decision as early as this week. The plan,
which requires congressional approval, would be a significant move to reshape
the government's border security functions.

Under the plan, the Justice Department would probably oversee the new border
security agency. The Customs Service is part of the Treasury Department, and
Treasury Secretary Paul O'Neill reportedly has endorsed the idea.

The Justice Department already oversees the INS, which the administration has
been overhauling after years of gaffes and charges of incompetence.

Homeland security director Tom Ridge, who made the recommendations to Bush
Tuesday morning, has long pushed for a new agency combining the agencies'
functions.

The immigration service is under fire for approval of student visas for Mohamed
Atta and Marwan al-Shehhi, who had already used visitor visas to complete pilot
training at Huffman Aviation in Venice. Ziglar said it was "customary" under INS
regulations at the time to allow foreigners to do that because the wait for
student visas often took a year.

"The student process had become so lax and lengthy because the focus of
immigration policies prior to Sept. 11 was not on security but on facilitating
the students and the schools they attended," Ziglar said. "The focus has changed
and our process has changed as well."

Due to paperwork delays, the notification of change of status was sent to
Huffman by a data processing company six months after Atta and al-Shehhi piloted
two airliners into the Trade Center.

Ziglar said the INS should have investigated those records. "We should have
intercepted those items, and we did not," he testified.

He said the INS is tightening visa procedures: Six-month tourist visas are being
reduced to 30 days, a new entry-and-exit system is in the works to track
visitors, and electronic tracking of students will be in effect by the end of
the year. He said applicants for a change of status may have to return to their
home countries to face new screening.

President Bush rebuked the INS for its delays and foulups last week and called
for a complete report in 30 days on the incident. White House spokesman Ari
Fleischer said Tuesday that Bush has confidence in Ziglar to reform the INS.

Members of the judiciary subcommittee from both parties were much more critical,
questioning whether Ziglar could overhaul an agency known for inefficiency.

"How can we believe that future terrorists will be detected in time to prevent
future tragedies?" asked Rep. George Gekas, R-Pa., subcommittee chairman.
"That's the burning question we face."

Rep. John Conyers of Michigan, the ranking Democrat, criticized Ziglar for
having no immigration experience and said the INS "was fixating on rounding up
thousands of Arab Americans but can't take basic steps to make sure visas aren't
granted to terrorists."

Ziglar, a former investment banker and sergeant-at-arms of the U.S. Senate,
promised that technological improvements will allow a streamlined process for
visas "while protecting national security."

Rep. Zoe Lofgren, D-Calif., said one way to improve security was better computer
links and information-sharing by law enforcement, INS and consular offices to
screen potential terrorists when they first apply for visas.


LOAD-DATE: March 20, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: PHOTO; INS boss James Ziglar

                    Copyright 2002 Times Publishing Company


                              281 of 302 DOCUMENTS

                         St. Petersburg Times (Florida)

                March 29, 2002, Friday, 0 South Pinellas Edition

PROFESSOR TALKS ABOUT FREE SPEECH

SECTION: CITY & STATE; BRIEFLY; Pg. 3B

LENGTH: 266 words



David Cole, above, a professor from the Georgetown University Law Center, spoke
Thursday night at the University of South Florida about free speech, academic
freedom and civil liberties in a post-Sept. 11 world. He told the audience of
about 75 people that America seems willing to sacrifice the rights of
immigrants, especially Arab immigrants, in the name of increased security. Even
Arabs with no alleged link to the Sept. 11 attacks, such as former USF
instructor Mazen Al-Najjar and suspended professor Sami Al-Arian, have been
caught up in that wave, he said. "We have not sacrificed our own liberties but
the liberties of immigrants," said Cole, who helped represent Al-Najjar during
his ongoing battles with the Immigration and Naturalization Service. Al-Najjar
is currently in prison.

Case over Tampa adult video settled

Adam Glasser, the California pornographer who faced obscenity charges for a
video he made in a Tampa hotel room, will not go to jail.

Last week as the case was set to go to trial, the Los Angeles County City
Attorney's Office agreed to drop obscenity charges against Glasser and his
mother, who acts as his bookkeeper.

In exchange, Glasser's company, Big Brown Eyes Inc., pleaded guilty to a lesser
charge of creating a public nuisance. Glasser also agreed to pay a $ 1,000 fine
and put a warning label on the film, said George Cardona, chief of the criminal
division of the Los Angeles city attorney's office.

The charges stemmed from the film Tampa Tushy-Fest, Part I, which Glasser made.
Glasser and his mother could have faced 720 days in jail.


LOAD-DATE: March 29, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DISTRIBUTION: CITY & STATE; METRO & STATE; TAMPA & STATE

GRAPHIC: PHOTO, THOMAS M. GOETHE; David Cole, a professor from the Georgetown
University Law Center

TYPE: DIGEST

                    Copyright 2002 Times Publishing Company


                              282 of 302 DOCUMENTS

                         St. Petersburg Times (Florida)

                             March 31, 2002, Sunday

Arrival of spongers in hands of INS

BYLINE: KATHERINE GAZELLA

SECTION: NORTH PINELLAS TIMES; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 604 words

DATELINE: TARPON SPRINGS



As many as eight spongers from the island of Kalymnos in Greece could arrive
this spring or summer to help revive Tarpon Springs' beleaguered sponge
industry.

The Sponge Associates of Florida, which is organizing the importing of the
divers and sponge processors, has submitted the paperwork to the Immigration and
Naturalization Service for work visas. The spongers could stay for one to three
years, said George Billiris, a sponge merchant and a trustee with Sponge
Associates.

"The rest is up to the governmental agencies," he said. "All of it depends on
how fast Immigration wants to work on it."

Last year, the state approved a $ 15,000 grant to bring the spongers to Tarpon
Springs. But the effort stalled when the Sept. 11 terrorist attacks caused a
slowdown in immigration.

Now, things are moving again, and the spongers could arrive as soon as the end
of May, Billiris said. Once they are here, they will work on sponge boats and
teach novices how to process and dive for sponges.

Once the signature industry of Tarpon Springs, few people are actively involved
in sponging anymore. Many boats don't go into the Gulf of Mexico at all, and
others make fewer runs than in the past.

Billiris said the reason is that not enough people know the trade. The divers
from Greece not only would help the industry by increasing the harvesting of
sponges while they are here, they also would teach others who could continue
sponging even after the Kalymnians leave, he said.

"This has an awful lot to do with the economic stability of the community,"
Billiris said. "You must have a sponge industry. We need divers, and we need
crews."

Sponge merchants say they would like to distribute the sponges found locally, a
high-quality variety known as Rock Island sponges. But because the supply can't
keep up with demand, the merchants fill some orders with sponges from the
Bahamas and the Mediterranean.

"We have the responsibility of maintaining and not losing what we have,"
Billiris said.

The grant for the spongers pays for liability insurance, immigration costs and
some housing costs. Some other expenses will be covered by private funds.

Most of the Kalymnian spongers are middle-aged and have families, Billiris said.

The Sponge Associates will be responsible for matching the spongers up with
boats when they arrive and ensuring that they can make a decent living, said
attorney Cimos Angelis, the chairman of the board of trustees for the Sponge
Associates.

"These people are basically going to uproot themselves from where they're at,"
he said.

Longtime sponge boat captain Tasso Karistinos said he doesn't know whether he
will have room for one of the divers on his boat. He has enough divers right now
but might be able to use one of the Greek divers in the future.

"I'm not saying "no way,' " he said. "There's plenty of boats over here that
don't have divers. I don't think (the divers) are going to have any trouble
finding a job."

Karistinos pointed out there are differences in diving here than in Greece,
including the fact that the waters in Greece are much deeper. He isn't sure
whether the divers from Kalymnos will be as skillful as they're being portrayed.

"We don't need divers to tell us how to do things," he said.

That isn't the plan, Billiris said. There are many skilled divers in Tarpon
Springs, and the Kalymnians will not step on their toes, he said. The goal is
for the Kalymnians to train new people, he said.

"We have the best divers in the world," he said. "But not enough."

- Katherine Gazella can be reached at (727) 445-4182 or gazella@sptimes.com.


LOAD-DATE: March 31, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DISTRIBUTION: NORTH PINELLAS TIMES; CITY & STATE

                    Copyright 2002 Times Publishing Company


                              283 of 302 DOCUMENTS

                         St. Petersburg Times (Florida)

                             April 01, 2002, Monday

Spongers' arrival in hands of INS

BYLINE: KATHERINE GAZELLA

SECTION: LARGO TIMES; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 604 words

DATELINE: TARPON SPRINGS



As many as eight spongers from the island of Kalymnos in Greece could arrive
this spring or summer to help revive Tarpon Springs' beleaguered sponge
industry.

The Sponge Associates of Florida, which is organizing the importing of the
divers and sponge processors, has submitted the paperwork to the Immigration and
Naturalization Service for work visas. The spongers could stay for one to three
years, said George Billiris, a sponge merchant and a trustee with Sponge
Associates.

"The rest is up to the governmental agencies," he said. "All of it depends on
how fast Immigration wants to work on it."

Last year, the state approved a $ 15,000 grant to bring the spongers to Tarpon
Springs. But the effort stalled when the Sept. 11 terrorist attacks caused a
slowdown in immigration.

Now, things are moving again, and the spongers could arrive as soon as the end
of May, Billiris said. Once they are here, they will work on sponge boats and
teach novices how to process and dive for sponges.

Once the signature industry of Tarpon Springs, few people are actively involved
in sponging anymore. Many boats don't go into the Gulf of Mexico at all, and
others make fewer runs than in the past.

Billiris said the reason is that not enough people know the trade. The divers
from Greece not only would help the industry by increasing the harvesting of
sponges while they are here, they also would teach others who could continue
sponging even after the Kalymnians leave, he said.

"This has an awful lot to do with the economic stability of the community,"
Billiris said. "You must have a sponge industry. We need divers, and we need
crews."

Sponge merchants say they would like to distribute the sponges found locally, a
high-quality variety known as Rock Island sponges. But because the supply can't
keep up with demand, the merchants fill some orders with sponges from the
Bahamas and the Mediterranean.

"We have the responsibility of maintaining and not losing what we have,"
Billiris said.

The grant for the spongers pays for liability insurance, immigration costs and
some housing costs. Some other expenses will be covered by private funds.

Most of the Kalymnian spongers are middle-aged and have families, Billiris said.

The Sponge Associates will be responsible for matching the spongers up with
boats when they arrive and ensuring that they can make a decent living, said
attorney Cimos Angelis, the chairman of the board of trustees for the Sponge
Associates.

"These people are basically going to uproot themselves from where they're at,"
he said.

Longtime sponge boat captain Tasso Karistinos said he doesn't know whether he
will have room for one of the divers on his boat. He has enough divers right now
but might be able to use one of the Greek divers in the future.

"I'm not saying "no way,' " he said. "There's plenty of boats over here that
don't have divers. I don't think (the divers) are going to have any trouble
finding a job."

Karistinos pointed out there are differences in diving here than in Greece,
including the fact that the waters in Greece are much deeper. He isn't sure
whether the divers from Kalymnos will be as skillful as they're being portrayed.

"We don't need divers to tell us how to do things," he said.

That isn't the plan, Billiris said. There are many skilled divers in Tarpon
Springs, and the Kalymnians will not step on their toes, he said. The goal is
for the Kalymnians to train new people, he said.

"We have the best divers in the world," he said. "But not enough."

- Katherine Gazella can be reached at (727) 445-4182 or gazella@sptimes.com.


LOAD-DATE: April 1, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DISTRIBUTION: LARGO TIMES; CLEARWATER TIMES

                    Copyright 2002 Times Publishing Company


                              284 of 302 DOCUMENTS

                         St. Petersburg Times (Florida)

               April 11, 2002, Thursday, 0 South Pinellas Edition

Proposal to limit foreign visitors will hurt tourism

SECTION: EDITORIAL; LETTERS; Pg. 15A

LENGTH: 1887 words



Re: INS requires students to have visas before starting classes, April 9.

We read with concern your piece covering the Immigration and Naturalization
Service's plans to limit visits by foreign tourists and businesspeople to 30
days.

While accepting that certain changes are needed following the Sept. 11 outrage
(we were here at the time and shared the grief and horror), it seems a strange
proposal that effectively reduces the tourism dollars so needed in the local
economy.

We are Europeans normally residing in Britain. We also own a house in Pinellas
County, which we use when we can within the present six-month limit. We have
other assets in the United States and pay substantial taxes into the local
economy (no homestead exemption for us).

In no way are we a burden to state or country and are not even remotely a threat
to the safety of the United States.

To curtail the time we can spend at our home in Florida will drastically reduce
the dollars we spend here and may even force us to sell our property and
consider buying a vacation home elsewhere such as France or Spain.

We cannot believe that this agency proposal is a positive move in the common
fight against terror.

We urge the agency to review its plans to accommodate bona fide temporary
residents for the benefit of all.

Anne and Frans Verlaan, Palm Harbor

A frightening direction

Re: On patrol for the terrorist next door, April 8.

I have watched in fear these recent months as Attorney General Ashcroft and his
minions are trampling our cherished civil liberties into the ground. My hope has
been that the public will soon realize what the real goal of our current
administration is: to do as our wealthy leaders wish and silence all dissent
lest one be considered "unpatriotic."

This front-page article, regarding neighborhood patrols and their potential use
in rooting out terrorists in our midst, created instant deja vu.

I am 9 years old again, living in Austria under Hitler's domination, and my
mother is being arrested by the Gestapo. Her crime? A friend came to visit and
reported to the police that she overheard a printing press operating in the
apartment upstairs from ours. She chose to turn my mother in as her patriotic
duty. My mother was held for three days while I was left to fend for myself
during blackouts and bombing raids. The paralyzing fear of being killed our
losing my mother is still with me.

America has been my chosen home for more than 40 years, but I still relive my
early childhood in my nightmares.

Is this really the direction our country wants to move in? Nazi Germany and
Austria did not happen overnight. They started with the premise that one country
and its people were superior to all others. Scary? You bet it is, and the sooner
we recognize the similarities the better, if we want to avoid heading in the
same direction. I hope it is not too late.

Erika M. Doman, St. Petersburg

A price too high to fly

Re: Airport security.

What price are we willing to pay for our country's security? When I bought a
ticket to fly on an airplane, I didn't realize I was giving up so much. To be
singled out at random and to have your possessions publicly searched is
uncomfortable, but to do a body search, I feel, violates our rights. I have no
problem with a detector moved around my body, but this should not include a
physical pat-down by a member of the opposite sex. This is unacceptable, and I
will never again pay this price to be allowed on an airplane. This is not what
being an American citizen is all about.

But this is exactly the price I paid to board a flight in Detroit recently. One
young man hauled out everything in my backpack on the table for everyone to see.
Meanwhile, another guy was going all over me with the detector. I was trying to
watch the other guy going through my things, but he kept yelling at me to turn
around.

I thought he was finally through, and I went over to watch the guy going through
my purse. He was even looking at the cash and credit cards in my wallet. The
other one yelled that he was not through, and I was hauled away to have my shoes
examined. When he let me put my shoes back on, he began a body search with his
hands. He told me was going to put his hands on my back, and he did - all over
my back. He then reached down to my ankles and began to pat me all the way up to
my thighs. Finally, he allowed me to board the plane.

This was very humiliating and unnecessary. I have been a law-abiding citizen for
more than 50 years now and didn't deserve to be treated as a criminal. We must
institute some guidelines that will be respectful to everyone. Until these
guidelines are in place, I will try to never fly again. It is just not worth it!

Linda Walker, Seminole

Is this the system working?

Re: Man, gun vanish at TIA, April 3.

FAA spokesperson Christopher White says "the system worked"!

What is he talking about? Is the system supposed to allow these creeps to get as
far as they do? Is the system supposed to delay the thousands of travelers that
did obey the rules? Is the system supposed to shut down an entire airside and
have no results after a search? Man vanishes? Vanishes?

Let me get this straight: A gun is spotted in a briefcase, but the supervisor
trusted the man to stand around until the police came. Great "system." It speaks
well of the exhaustive training screeners are subjected to. And the National
Guardsmen that we are paying to stand around have proved to be well worth the
money we have spent on that program.

The system worked! With that statement, I have grave questions concerning
whether or not White knows exactly what the system is or how it is supposed to
work.

Here's another thought: Why not put the face-recognition computer software to
work at the airport and catch terrorists and criminals instead of at Ybor City
looking for deadbeat dads, glue-sniffers and potheads.

Mike Rieker, Dunedin

Make them take responsibility

I find it incredible that almost six months have elapsed since the greed-induced
implosion of the nation's seventh largest corporation, Enron, and there has been
only one indictment charging criminal activity - against the company's outside
auditor, Arthur Andersen, for shredding Enron documents.

The law will no doubt eventually get around to Ken Lay and a few others who were
principally responsible for the financial ruin of thousands of Enron's employees
and stockholders. But what of the employees - hundreds of them - headed by
Enron's accounting manager, its internal audit manager and its tax manager whose
responsibility it was to prevent implementation of the fraudulent accounting
practices that took place? Any of these managers, or their staffs, also could
have prevented the Andersen auditor from shredding the company's documents. And
what about the Internal Revenue Service auditor who spent full-time at Enron's
offices examining records that produced Enron's fraudulent tax returns? Was he
blind or merely the recipient of some of the company's generous "campaign"
contributions?

The system of internal accounting checks and balances, combined with IRS
oversight, works well to contain the tendency toward corruptive greed in
corporate America but failed utterly in the case of Enron. Its bean counters had
to have been criminally negligent.

Joseph H. Francis, St. Petersburg

Steps toward an efficient tax system

Re: Poorly aimed audits, editorial, April 9.

I have a suggestion toward fairness in taxation.

First, a thorough review and definition of a consumption-based tax system should
be developed. It should be implemented with food and medicine exempted. There
would then be no need to conceal income.

Enforcement would be established through close attention to the businesses
collecting the tax, and when they understand the process, they should have no
need to ignore tax collection or hide the receipts. There would be far fewer
taxpayers to keep track of, and the system should be much more equitable than
the current one that punishes individuals and companies for success.

As to the argument that low-income people would be unfairly taxed, most people
in higher-income brackets spend their money on more expensive items than we
average citizens do. Also, the rich person who does not spend much money will
have to invest it, and invested wealth is what keeps the rest of us in spending
money.

There are far too many taxpayers for any government organization to watch with
the current system. However, with the consumption-tax system, a properly
organized revenue agency would require far fewer people and be much more
efficient. This would also reduce the demand on existing revenues, thus a tax
savings for all of us.

Robert E. Hagaman, Homosassa

Legality and morality are not the same

Re: The silence of the Democratic lambs, by Mark Shields, April 8.

As Shields uses the scripture passage of the meek inheriting the earth, be
mindful of the teaching that earth is the devil's domain. I believe I'll take my
chances on being passionately outspoken and would encourage these meek Democrats
to get their heads out of the sand and find the courage to speak up.

The me-first mentality of protecting and enriching the already wealthy at the
expense of the poor is not in harmony with moral integrity no matter how many
times you invoke the name of your god. While the Catholic Church is vilified for
the coverup of abusers, it appears symbolic of those in our own government, who
share equally in guilt as they rape the poverty programs to enrich themselves.

Passing self-serving laws might make the actions legal, but it affects the moral
integrity of our nation.

Nina S. Flanders, Clearwater

Fraudulent research exposed

Re: The year of the yellow notepad, by Alexander Cockburn, April 6.

I'm glad to see that serious critics have finally started to uncover the
falsehoods behind the book Arming America by Michael Bellesiles. It's now
becoming clear that Bellesiles distorted facts and even made up material to
support his antigun thesis. Among other examples of fraudulent scholarship is
Bellesiles' citing records that were destroyed in the fires following the San
Francisco earthquake of 1906.

Gary Wills now says he doesn't have the time to address the problems with Arming
America, although he wrote a glowing review of the book when it was published.
Although I often disagree with the St. Petersburg Times' editorial stances,
there seems to be better journalistic ethics here than in New York.

Bellesiles now claims his notes on yellow notepads (apparently he doesn't
believe in computers) were destroyed in "an inundation" at his office at Emory
University. Right! And once my seventh-grade English homework was eaten by the
family dog.

Emory University should take the correct action and fire this liar and fraud.

George Lear, St. Petersburg

Share your opinions

Letters for publication should be addressed to Letters to the Editor, P.O. Box
1121, St. Petersburg, FL 33731. They can be sent by e-mail to
letters@sptimes.com or by fax to 893-8675.

They should be brief and must include the writer's name, address and phone
number. Please include a handwritten signature when possible.

Letters may be edited for clarity, taste and length. We regret that not all
letters can be published.


LOAD-DATE: April 11, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: CARTOON, Don Addis; a man and his family look at a dead fish that
represents the EPA report on Tampa Bay shorelines

TYPE: LETTER

                    Copyright 2002 Times Publishing Company


                              285 of 302 DOCUMENTS

                         St. Petersburg Times (Florida)

               April 15, 2002, Monday, 0 South Pinellas Edition
                              Correction Appended

30-day visa rule quite flexible

BYLINE: ALICIA CALDWELL

SECTION: CITY & STATE; Pg. 1B

LENGTH: 685 words



Olive Parfitt was a bit concerned when she first heard about the Immigration and
Naturalization Service's proposed tightening of regulations governing foreign
visitors.

After all, she and her husband have traveled from their native England to their
vacation condominium in Indian Shores each year for the past 13 years. In recent
years, they've stretched their visits to last several months.

The idea that the INS changes might limit their stays to 30 days - one facet of
reforms proposed since the Sept. 11 terrorist attacks - gave her pause.

"It was a shock when we heard that," said Parfitt, 58, a semiretired
receptionist and office manager.

As it turns out, the proposed regulations likely will have little impact on
retirees who own or rent vacation homes in the region, according to INS
spokeswoman Amy Otten.

"Though it's been called a 30-day rule, that's not what it is," she said. "We're
just trying to match the visitors to what they really need."

The proposed changes, she said, essentially would do away with the automatic
six-month stay, and instead would have INS inspectors scrutinize visitors' plans
and reasons for being here and issue visas accordingly. For instance, if
visitors have arranged for a vacation rental for three months, their visas will
be issued for the same amount of time. In addition, the maximum stay for
tourists would go from one year to six months.

"For people who own or rent a vacation house, they shouldn't have any problems,"

 Otten said.

The 30-day visa, Otten said, kicks in when the INS cannot determine how long a
person needs to stay in the United States.

Furthermore, INS officials insist that the retiree who wants to stay in his
vacation home longer than six months should not have much difficulty in
obtaining an extension to his visa. The INS' Web site, www.ins.gov, details the
changes in a fact sheet.

It says: "INS does recognize that some visitors, such as certain retirees who
own vacation homes in the United States, may wish to remain for longer than six
months.  The proposed rules will allow extensions of stay in such cases."

The proposed rule changes could affect the plans of millions of visitors.
According to Tom Flanigan, spokesman for Visit Florida, the official tourism and
marketing agency for the state, 5.6-million overseas visitors came to Florida in
2001.

It is a small, but significant portion of the state's total tourism numbers.
Domestic visitors tallied 62.3-million last year, and 1.9-million Canadians came
to the United States, Flanigan said.

Flanigan said the tourism agency would scrutinize the potential impact, but said
that upon first analysis it seemed that it would not diminish Florida tourism.

"Our initial interpretation is that the impact of these changes likely will be
minimal," Flanigan said. "I know that's tap-dancing around the issue, but until
we talk to other folks, such as Canadian tourism officials, and really look at
it, we won't really know."

A representative from the Canadian Embassy in Washington, D.C., said that
Canadian officials were waiting for the INS to release detailed regulations to
make a final analysis, but initial indications are that the changes would have
little effect on Canadians visiting the United States.

"It is our understanding that there will be some flexibility for Canadians who
want to stay in the U.S. for extended periods," said Pam Chappell, media
relations officer for the Canadian Embassy. "We'll make sure that their
interests are watched."

Statistics from the INS, posted on the agency's Web site, show that of the
nearly 5.6-million foreign visitors to Florida in 1999, most of them,
4.8-million, came to the state on vacation.

Of those visitors, 428,000 were from Germany, and nearly 1.3-million were from
the United Kingdom.

Hugh Hunter, the British vice counsel posted in Orlando, said that so far the
proposed regulations haven't caused much consternation among the people with
whom he deals.

"It will make a difference in practice, but to the vast majority of people, it
won't mean a bit of change," Hunter said.


LOAD-DATE: April 25, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DISTRIBUTION: CITY & STATE; METRO & STATE; TAMPA & STATE

CORRECTION-DATE: April 19, 2002

CORRECTION:
 A photograph of John and Olive Parfitt of Great Britain accompanied a story
Monday about new immigration rules. The photo caption gave the wrong first name
for Mr. Parfitt.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO, FRED VICTORIN; Paul and Olive Parfitt stroll the Indian Shores
beach within a short walk of their condo.

                    Copyright 2002 Times Publishing Company


                              286 of 302 DOCUMENTS

                         St. Petersburg Times (Florida)

                April 15, 2002, Monday, 0 South Pinellas Edition

Fixing what ails INS

SECTION: EDITORIAL; EDITORIALS; Pg. 10A

LENGTH: 483 words



Under pressure to clean up its act, the Immigration and Naturalization Service
has proposed new rules that include shortening the stays of foreign visitors
with visas. Some of the changes make sense and some don't, but Americans have no
reason to believe merely tweaking the rules will fix what ails the INS.

Already under scrutiny following the Sept. 11 terrorist attacks, the INS
humiliated itself six months later by mailing approvals for two of the deceased
hijackers to attend flight school. That foulup confirmed what many suspected:
that the INS is a clunky bureaucracy that has lost control of its own
operations.

INS Commissioner James W. Ziglar has been on the job less than a year and asks
that he be given a chance to turn the agency around. He deserves that
opportunity. However, the rule changes he announced this week will have little
to do with regaining public trust, and they could be counterproductive.

Ziglar wants to reduce the maximum stay for those with tourist visas from six
months to 30 days, and to halve the 12-month limit on business visas. He would
make foreign visitors who want to study here get a student visa before enrolling
in classes. Currently, those visiting the United States on a tourist visa can
attend classes (as some of the terrorists did) and apply for a student visa
belatedly.

Also, visitors who have been sent a deportation order would be denied a hearing
if they fail to respond within 30 days, but that rule would punish even those
who, through no fault of their own, failed to be notified of their obligation.

The U.S. Chamber of Commerce was immediately critical of the rule changes,
saying limits on foreign travel would hurt American businesses and schools. "It
probably will have a significant impact on the tourism and travel folks," said
chamber official Teresa Brown. She has a point. In 2000, 10-million people got
tourist visas, and 2.5-million traveled on business visas. Few of those visitors
caused trouble, but they made a significant contribution to our economy.

There is nothing wrong with requiring those who want to study here to prove they
are legitimate students, or with making visitors provide a legitimate reason
before they are allowed to extend their visas. But the truth is, that is
fine-tuning a process that first needs a major overhaul.

The INS is understaffed, underfunded and overwhelmed. The new rules would only
make things worse, because in addition to guarding the borders and keeping track
of millions of foreign visitors, the agency would be saddled with even more
paperwork - responding to visa extension requests and checking student records.

The rule changes don't need congressional approval and are only awaiting public
comment before being implemented. Americans should respond with this message:
Until the INS can handle its current responsibilities adequately, none should be
added.


LOAD-DATE: April 15, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: EDITORIAL

                    Copyright 2002 Times Publishing Company


                              287 of 302 DOCUMENTS

                         St. Petersburg Times (Florida)

                              May 03, 2002, Friday

Pupils recreate rigors of arrival in America

BYLINE: JOEL POILEY

SECTION: NORTH OF TAMPA; NEIGHBORHOOD REPORT; NEW TAMPA; Pg. 9

LENGTH: 533 words

DATELINE: WEST MEADOWS



A man is shuttled from checkpoint to checkpoint. A woman is about to give birth.
Newly arrived at New York's Ellis Island, they wonder about their place in
America.

Clark Elementary School fourth-graders experienced the difficulties of the
immigration process during their "Ellis Island: Gateway to Dreams" simulation
Tuesday.

Through Web searches, students such as Jorge Passalacqua and London Enos assumed
the identities of actual immigrants, dressing and speaking the part as they
learned the hardships of life in a strange land.

As the classes involved arrived at school, students immediately entered their
characters. In the shadow of the Statue of Liberty, guards took travelers just
off the boat to stations that included character checks, job qualifications and
health inspections.

At the end of the weary process was the Loyalty Oath Station, where immigrants
were told whether they had enough points to become U.S. citizens or be deported.
London's character was allowed to stay with her new baby boy. Jorge's wasn't so
fortunate, with a skin rash creating a health risk and forcing him to leave.

Teachers Laura Burek, Priscilla Towner and Cher Gauweiler led the project, which
took on greater meaning after the Sept. 11 terrorist attacks and the subsequent
war in Afghanistan.

It was a catalyst for discussions about discrimination, racism and sexism, Burek
said. They also learned about health issues, (such as Jorge's character) that
might make it difficult for  an immigrant to clear inspection.

Students read books about the countries where immigrants came from, such as
Poland, Italy, Ireland, Germany and Sweden. They also had to write diaries to
Old World relatives and interact in small group dramatizations.

Much of the simulation was improvisational, adding to the realism. London said
she could see how frightened her character might have been, fearing she might be
deported.

It was a difficult life, said London, who is in Burek's class.

"My mom's eight-months pregnant, so I could relate to that," she said. "And I
liked dressing up and being somebody else and learning about the history of the
people. But I wasn't sure I would be allowed to stay until I saw Ms. Gauweiler
checkpoint supervisor Gertrude Goldstein in the simulation and she said that I
can stay in America if I have a baby."

Gauweiler said the students gleaned much about tolerance and what it means to
live in America.

"I think it made them more aware of people now who want to get into the country,
and how some people would give anything to live in this country," Gauweiler
said.

"There's probably more of an appreciation of what freedom means. It's more
poignant when you teach that because there are so many people that are being
looked at wrongly because of who they are.

"We have a large Middle Eastern population here, and those students have felt
the effects of that. This gives them an opportunity to feel like they're
Americans as well. Their parents love America, they work long hours in their own
businesses, and it gives them pride in their parents and the people who came
before them."

The project culminates with a multicultural musical production on May 22.


LOAD-DATE: May 3, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DISTRIBUTION: NORTH OF TAMPA

                    Copyright 2002 Times Publishing Company


                              288 of 302 DOCUMENTS

                         St. Petersburg Times (Florida)

                              May 05, 2002, Sunday

Ashcroft's power to detain without charges continues without oversight

BYLINE: ROBYN BLUMNER

SECTION: PERSPECTIVE; COLUMN; Pg. 6D

LENGTH: 809 words



While acrid smoke from the wreckage of the World Trade Center towers was still
lingering in the air, Congress and the Justice Department were haggling over
broad, new powers that Attorney General John Ashcroft wanted - needed - to fight
the terrorist menace and protect American lives.

Although leaders in Congress were cowed into bow-and-scrape timidity by
Ashcroft's demand that they act ASAP on his requests lest another terror attack
go unaverted, lawmakers did draw the line at one point. They refused to give
Ashcroft the power to hold immigrant terror suspects indefinitely.

When the USA Patriot Act passed in October, it authorized long-term immigrant
detentions at the attorney general's say-so but included at least some due
process: Immigrants could not be held more than seven days without charge or the
start of deportation proceedings; and every six months the attorney general had
to review the terror-suspect certifications and report to the judiciary
committees in Congress. It was one way Congress could provide some oversight and
accountability.

Well, the first certification report was submitted to Congress last month. It
was a six-line, thumb-your-nose letter written by an assistant attorney general
indicating that not a single immigrant has been certified as an alien terrorist.
Not one.

Now, anyone who hasn't been holed up in a Skinner box the last seven months
might find this curious. What about those 104 immigrants still sitting in jails
and detention centers around the country as detainees of the Justice Department?
These aliens are surely being treated as terrorist suspects. In violation of
every tradition of American justice, their incarceration has been steeped in
secrecy. We don't know who they are or why they are being held, and it is all
being justified as necessary for national security.

So why hasn't the department certified at least some of them as alien terror
suspects under the USA Patriot Act? Apparently, Ashcroft didn't have to. He
found he could lock immigrants up secretly and for long periods without this new
statutory power. Ashcroft has simply written himself new regulations that
incorporate all the USA Patriot Act detention powers and more, but without the
pesky requirement that he report to Congress.

For months, Senate Judiciary Committee Chairman Patrick Leahy, D-Vt., and other
congressional leaders have been asking for detailed information on the
detainees; and so far the squirely Ashcroft has sent them only nonresponsive
responses. Ashcroft clearly doesn't want to be answerable to anyone for the
hundreds of souls he has locked away since Sept. 11; and Congress, and the
media, have allowed him to get away with it.

The USA Patriot Act requires charges to be filed within seven days of detention.
But Justice Department records indicate that "people have been held for weeks
and months without charge," according to Tim Edgar, legislative counsel for the
American Civil Liberties Union. One man was held for 119 days without charge -
essentially a political prisoner of our executive branch.

How could this be? Well, days after the terrorist attacks, Ashcroft simply
changed the rules regarding the amount of time an immigrant could be held before
being charged. It had been 24 hours. He changed it to 48 hours plus an
additional "reasonable time" in the event of an emergency situation. The
"reasonable time" standard is meaningless enough to provide cover for whatever
the department wants to do.

Other rule changes Ashcroft and his underlings have put in place include:

+Giving the department an automatic override of an immigration judge's order to
release an alien. Regardless of the judge's findings, immigrants may now remain
incarcerated at the discretion of their prosecutors.

+Closing immigration hearings for all Sept. 11 detainees and sealing all records
about their cases. (A federal appeals court in Cincinnati recently said it will
probably set this rule aside in particular cases.)

+Forbidding nonfederal institutions from releasing information on Immigration
and Naturalization Service detainees. Ashcroft rushed this emergency rule into
effect after a New Jersey state court judge ordered that the name of every
inmate incarcerated in state jails be made public. New Jersey Superior Court
Judge Arthur D'Italia had called the secret arrests and detentions "odious to a
democracy."

Ashcroft is increasingly emboldened by the silence of Congress and the media to
this series of outrages carried out in the people's name. Why isn't every media
outlet demanding to know about the 1,200 people picked up after Sept. 11 and the
104 immigrants still held in secret detention? Why does the public seem to care
so much more about Chandra than whether public officials uphold our national
principles?

The answer is Ashcroft's ticket to ride.


LOAD-DATE: May 5, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: DRAWING, DON ADDIS; Two homeless men sit near a trashcan with bees
buzzing and a sign on the wall stating that May 5 is Cartoonists Day and one
says "So what exactly was the problem with your portfolio?" and the other
answers "Zero dollarance."

TYPE: COLUMN

                    Copyright 2002 Times Publishing Company


                              289 of 302 DOCUMENTS

                         St. Petersburg Times (Florida)

             September 19, 2000, Tuesday, 0 South Pinellas Edition

Gore citizenship push called political ploy

BYLINE: SARA FRITZ

SECTION: NATIONAL; Pg. 1A

LENGTH: 1837 words

DATELINE: WASHINGTON



Four years ago, according to federal investigators, Vice President Al Gore's
staff took steps to speed up processing of immigrant applications for American
citizenship in order to - in the words of one aide - "produce 1-million new
citizens before Election Day" that November.

One result of the intensive effort was that thousands of immigrants were
naturalized even though they had criminal records for such crimes as murder and
armed robbery that should have either disqualified them for citizenship or
forced them to undergo closer questioning.

Gore admits he authorized the effort, but the Democratic presidential candidate
denies allegations he did it because new citizens normally vote Democratic and
he thought it would help the Clinton-Gore ticket in the November election.

Instead, he told investigators for the Justice Department Inspector General's
Office that he was simply responding to complaints from Hispanic groups that the
Immigration and Naturalization Service was too slow in processing applications.

Yet an 800-page report detailing the results of the Justice Department's inquiry
is replete with evidence to the contrary - evidence of what former House
Judiciary Committee investigator David Schippers, a fellow Democrat, has
described as the blatant politicization of the INS by the vice president and the
White House.

Even if Gore's motives for intervening in the INS decisionmaking were not
political, as he insists, the results of this investigation provide a rare
window into the governing style of the Democratic presidential nominee.

The investigative record discloses how a few self-important members of Gore's
staff set out to force officials of the Justice Department and INS to do things
they felt were improper, and how they invoked the names of the president and
vice president whenever they were stymied.

And it shows how Gore's highly touted effort to "reinvent government" did
nothing, in this instance, to help solve glaring problems at INS.

At the center of this controversy is a one-year program launched by the
administration in September 1995. "Citizenship USA" was designed to naturalize
at least 1-million new citizens. When the program appeared to be lagging in
early 1996, Gore says, he told members of his staff involved in his "reinventing
government" project to see if the INS could process applications for
naturalization more quickly.

Schippers, who stumbled on evidence of the vice president's involvement in this
matter during the Judiciary Committee's impeachment investigation of Clinton,
says it is a perfect, modern-day example of old-fashioned "Chicago politics" in
which Democratic bosses tried to pad voter rolls in their favor.

Gore refused to be interviewed by employees of the Justice Department's
Inspector General's Office who investigated the case, and instead responded in
writing. He answered only 16 of the 49 questions put to him. He said 11 times he
"does not recall" or "does not remember" meetings and documents related to the
case; he said he "does not believe" he was aware of the fact in 10 other
instances.

The vice president told investigators that he authorized his staff to get
involved in Citizenship USA after a meeting he had in Los Angeles on March 8,
1996, with about two dozen Hispanic leaders.

The record shows the Hispanic leaders' interest in naturalizing more citizens
was political. In a letter to Gore less than a month before the Los Angeles
meeting, the Rev. Miguel Vega, a leader of the group, argued that by allowing
the backlog of immigrants seeking citizenship to build, "the administration may
be blowing a great chance to create a whole lot of pro-Clinton voters."

Vega told investigators that he also made this pitch during the March 8 meeting
with Gore.

But when Gore was asked by the investigators if he talked with the Hispanic
leaders about the political potential of naturalizing more immigrants, he
replied in the third person:

"The vice president does not recall discussing the possibility that reinventing
the INS' naturalization process might result in increasing the number of people
who would be eligible to vote in the November 1996 election, or the number of
people who might likely vote for the Clinton-Gore ticket. . . . While others may
have seen a connection between INS reform and the right to vote in the 1996
election, the vice president's concern was to fix a government agency that, in
his view, was broken."

Although Gore says he did not authorize his staff's involvement in the
naturalization drive until after March 8, investigators found plenty of evidence
that the vice president's team for "reinventing government" had already put
pressure on the INS before that date.

Douglas Farbrother, a member of Gore's reinvention team, known officially as the
National Performance Review, told investigators that he was assigned to the
matter by top Gore aide Elaine Kamarck. According to Farbrother, Kamarck told
him that the president had asked Gore to look into the problems with
naturalization and Gore had, in turn, asked her to make it a task of the
government reinvention project.

Before recruiting Farbrother, Kamarck met a month earlier with White House
deputy chief of staff Harold Ickes and INS Commissioner Doris Meissner to
discuss a speedup for naturalizing immigrants. Meissner said she warned Ickes
and Kamarck that it would be "dangerous" for the White House to get involved in
naturalization because it would be seen as politically motivated.

Meissner's warning went unheeded.

On March 15, 1996, Farbrother went to talk to the INS commissioner himself.
Investigators said Meissner recalled that the vice president's young aide showed
up "in his usual attire - jeans and no socks - and handed her a two-paragraph
memo" that he wanted her to sign. The memo would give INS directors in key
cities the right to "waive INS rules and regulations within the confines of the
law" to naturalize immigrants more quickly.

Meissner told investigators that she was stunned by what she thought was an
audacious request from the vice president's office, and she regrets she did not
say to him: "Are you kidding? What in the world are you talking about?" Instead,
she referred the matter to her deputy.

In a self-congratulatory memo after his meeting with Meissner, Farbrother wrote:
"I met with Doris Friday, I told her that to get the results the vice president
wants, I need to get plenty of authority into the hands of the district
directors in the big cities. I simply don't have time to deal with your entire
multilayered organization."

Meanwhile, Kamarck was becoming impatient with resistance at INS. In a memo to
Farbrother on March 21, 1996, she declared (in capital letters): "THE PRESIDENT
IS SICK OF THIS AND WANTS ACTION. IF NOTHING MOVES TODAY, WE'LL HAVE TO TAKE
SOME PRETTY DRASTIC MEASURES."

Upset by pressure from the vice president's office, INS officials then sought
help from their bosses at the Justice Department. This led to a meeting between
then-Deputy Attorney General Jamie Gorelick, INS officials and Farbrother on
March 22, 1996.

"Uniformly, the Department of Justice/INS attendees saw Farbrother as arrogant,"

 investigators wrote in their report, referring to the meeting in Gorelick's
office. "Gorelick told (investigators) she was "shocked' by Farbrother's
attitude. . . . Farbrother, in her view, came in and tried to tell the
Department of Justice what to do in a tone she characterized as "peremptory.' "

Although Gorelick rejected Farbrother's plan to waive INS rules, she
nevertheless ordered the agency to find some more acceptable ways to streamline
the naturalization process. At the same time, she phoned Kamarck, telling Gore's
aide to "back off" on the citizenship issue. She also said she never wanted to
see Farbrother again, considering how "insufferably" he behaved.

But Farbrother did not give up. In an e-mail to Gore on March 28, he wrote: "I
can't make Doris Meissner delegate broad authority to her field managers. Can
you?" In a reply e-mail, Gore wrote: "We'll explore it. Thanks."

Some Republicans in Congress have charged that because of interference from the
vice president's office, the INS failed to adequately check to determine whether
the applicants had criminal records that would disqualify them. So far, the
Justice Department has identified nearly 400 people who were naturalized
improperly and 5,500 others whose criminal records should have been reviewed
more carefully.

The Justice Department's Inspector General's Office, in its report, says Gore
should not be held directly responsible for the INS bestowing citizenship on
criminals. It credits the INS with averting any negative consequences by
resisting interference from the vice president.

At the same time, investigators concluded that pressure from Gore's staff "did
not serve the program well." They say the focus of Gore's staff "on accelerating
the pace of naturalizations - while giving all too little thought to the quality
of adjudications, even though they recognized obvious weaknesses - imposed
additional stress upon a process that, even without their intervention, was
substantially flawed."

What caused these criminals to be naturalized was a faulty INS system for
checking fingerprints with the FBI. The record shows Farbrother recognized that
the fingerprint process was "ridiculously flawed," but he made no effort to mend
it.

If Gore's staff was interested in creating an efficient naturalization process,
the report said, it should have "suggested some responsible changes that would
have allowed INS to thoughtfully make progress on its backlog." Thus Gore failed
in his stated goal of trying to "fix" the process.

A few Republicans in Congress have urged GOP presidential candidate George W.
Bush to make a campaign issue of the the Justice Department findings in this
case. These Republicans think Bush should find a murderer who became a citizen
to demonstrate how Citizenship USA subverted what is widely viewed as a sacred
process. So far, however, Bush has not mentioned it.

Instead, Bush has made an issue of another event that occurred in the spring of
1996: Gore's visit to a Buddhist temple in Los Angeles.

Ironically, there is a connection between Gore's efforts to speed up
naturalization and his relationship with the Buddhists.

Investigators found in the vice president's files a letter written to Kamarck by
Maria Hsia, who arranged for Gore to visit the Buddhist temple. In the letter,
Hsia suggested that the Buddhists could be called upon as volunteers to teach
citizenship classes and interview and test applicants.

Hsia, who has since been convicted of illegal fundraising in connection with her
efforts to raise money from the Buddhists for the Clinton-Gore campaign, told
Kamarck that she had already discussed this idea personally with the vice
president. But as it turns out, the INS never called upon the Buddhists to help
with naturalizing immigrants.


LOAD-DATE: September 20, 2000

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: BLACK AND WHITE PHOTO, (3); Doris Meissner; David Schippers; Harold
Ickes

                    Copyright 2000 Times Publishing Company


                              290 of 302 DOCUMENTS

                         St. Petersburg Times (Florida)

            September 20, 2000, Wednesday, 0 South Pinellas Edition

Georgia sorority bias case settled

SOURCE: Compiled from Times Wires

SECTION: NATIONAL; IN BRIEF; Pg. 7A

LENGTH: 436 words

DATELINE: ATHENS, Ga.



The University of Georgia has lifted its suspension of a sorority accused of
racial discrimination in a deal that requires the group's members to undergo
sensitivity training.

Alpha Gamma Delta's lawyer pointed out the hypocrisy of punishing a sorority for
rejecting a potential black pledge when the university still holds a dual
sorority rush - one for blacks, one for whites.

University spokesman Tom Jackson said Tuesday he hopes the high-profile case
will help lead to more diverse fraternities and sororities and an end to the
practice of separate membership drives.

In Washington . . .

HIGH-TECH IMMIGRANTS: The Senate resuscitated legislation Tuesday to let
computer software and other high-tech companies bring in more workers. It still
faces high hurdles: Some lawmakers are determined to tie it to other immigration
issues.

Senators decided 97-1 - only Sen. Ernest Hollings, D-S.C., voted against - to
force a vote later this week on whether they should consider the popular
high-tech worker visa bill known as H1B.

Democrats want amendments, however, to deal with other immigration questions,
mainly involving Hispanics. Republicans say if Democrats succeed, it probably
will kill the popular measure for the year.

TRUMAN TO BE HONORED: Of the buildings, monuments and bridges in the nation's
capital, two dozen are named for presidents, but none for Harry S. Truman.

That will change on Friday, when President Clinton and Secretary of State
Madeleine Albright mark the naming of the State Department headquarters for
Truman, the nation's 33rd president. The master of ceremonies will be actor
James Earl Jones, who served in the Army when Truman ordered the military
desegregated in 1948.

SECRETS CASE: Preparing for a tell-all interview with Wen Ho Lee, the FBI has
learned from the Los Alamos scientist that he made a total of 20 tapes with
nuclear secrets, half of which were duplicates, officials said Tuesday.

Only three have been recovered, but Lee's lawyer said his client will tell the
FBI the remaining tapes were destroyed.

Also . . .

ATHEIST'S DISAPPEARANCE: The former office manager for well-known Texas atheist
Madalyn Murray O'Hair was indicted Tuesday by federal grand jury in the 1995
disappearance of O'Hair, her son and granddaughter. David R. Waters, 53, is
accused of kidnapping, extortion and robbery resulting in the death of another
person. He is in prison, serving 60 years on another charge.

COLORADO FIRE: Firefighters declared a 1,087-acre wildfire near Boulder, Colo.,
fully contained Tuesday evening as dozens of grateful residents returned home.


LOAD-DATE: September 20, 2000

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: DIGEST

                    Copyright 2000 Times Publishing Company


                              291 of 302 DOCUMENTS

                         St. Petersburg Times (Florida)

              September 25, 2000, Monday, 0 South Pinellas Edition

Philippine troops continue to pursue rebels

SOURCE: Compiled from Times Wires

SECTION: NATIONAL; IN BRIEF; Pg. 8A

LENGTH: 429 words

DATELINE: JOLO, Philippines; GENEVA; BERLIN; PRAGUE, Czech Republic



Thousands of troops backed by attack helicopters closed in Sunday on a group of
Muslim rebels fleeing with an American hostage in the hills of a southern
Philippine island, officials said.

The Abu Sayyaf rebels holding Jeffrey Schilling were attempting to reach a beach
to escape from Jolo island, Vice Gov. Munib Estino said.

The pursuit of the rebels resumed after local mayors in the township of Luuk
failed Friday to convince the guerrillas to release Schilling, Estino said.

Schilling, 24, of Oakland, Calif., is being held by a rebel faction led by Abu
Sabaya. Separate factions are thought to be holding three Malaysians and 13
Filipinos.

Swiss voters reject anti-immigration measure

GENEVA - Swiss voters on Sunday rejected a plan to cut the proportion of
foreigners in the country to 18 percent of the population and fix it there by
law.

It was the fifth anti-immigration plan to fail since 1970, but the result showed
that concerns persist among a significant minority over what the plan's backers
called "mass immigration."

Final results showed 63.7 percent of voters - 1.33-million people - voted
against the "initiative for the regulation of immigration." It was supported by
756,000 votes, or 36.3 percent. National turnout was 43.4 percent, about average
for Switzerland.

Riot breaks out at neo-Nazi concert

BERLIN - A riot erupted when police broke up a neo-Nazi concert with smoke bombs
and tear gas in the northern city of Lueneberg, injuring 46 officers and 15
others, police said Sunday.

Two of the officers suffered head injuries and were hospitalized in the melee
Saturday night. Thirty-two people were arrested for disturbing the peace.

The concert - which included numerous neo-Nazi bands from Germany and abroad -
was broken up because the event was connected to the banned international
neo-Nazi organizations "Blood and Honor" and its youth wing "White Youth."

More nations join call for lower oil prices

PRAGUE, Czech Republic - Rich nations claimed a breakthrough Sunday in their
battle against high oil prices after persuading several oil-producing countries
to join them in calling for cheaper crude.

Saudi Arabia, Algeria, Russia and the United Arab Emirates joined the Group of 7
industrialized nations and other members of the committee that governs the
International Monetary Fund in condemning current oil prices. Their agreement
was not binding, but financial officials presented it as tangible progress
before the Organization of Petroleum Exporting Countries holds a meeting in
Caracas, Venezuela, this week.


LOAD-DATE: September 26, 2000

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: DIGEST

                    Copyright 2000 Times Publishing Company


                              292 of 302 DOCUMENTS

                         St. Petersburg Times (Florida)

              October 31, 2000, Tuesday, 0 South Pinellas Edition

Seniors may get fraud aid

SOURCE: Compiled from Staff and Wire Reports

SECTION: NATIONAL; IN BRIEF; Pg. 4A

LENGTH: 627 words

DATELINE: WASHINGTON



A measure aimed at protecting the nation's elderly from telemarketing and
sweepstakes fraud passed the House on Monday.

The Protecting Seniors from Fraud Act, which passed by a voice vote, now goes to
the White House for President Clinton's signature.

Sen. Evan Bayh, the Indiana Democrat who wrote the measure, said seniors are
targeted by criminals and fraudulent telemarketers more than any other group.

The bill authorizes $ 5-million over five years to help law enforcement and
federal agencies protect and inform the elderly of fraudulent telemarketing and
investment schemes.

It also creates a clearinghouse to keep track of complaints made about
telemarketing companies and requires that crimes against seniors be included in
the nation's annual crime victims survey.

Secret evidence bill won't

come up this session

A bill pushed in Congress by civil rights proponents to stop the use of secret
evidence against immigrants will not be considered before the session ends.

More than 125 members of the U.S. House signed on as co-sponsors of the Secret
Evidence Repeal Act. The bipartisan legislation would restrict how the
Immigration and Naturalization Service and FBI may use secret, or classified,
evidence to keep immigrants in jail or deny them asylum.

It was inspired by Mazen Al-Najjar, a former University of South Florida teacher
who has been detained more than three years without charges on secret evidence
alleging ties to terrorists.

"Despite broad bipartisan support for repealing secret evidence, the Republican
leadership won't budge," Minority Whip David Bonior said in a statement released
Monday. "When it comes to protecting the rights of Arabs and Muslims in this
country the Republican leadership talks the talk, but they lack the will to walk
the walk," said the Michigan Democrat.

Both major party candidates for president have expressed opposition to the use
of secret evidence. It has been used almost exclusively against Arabs and
Muslims.

At the Supreme Court . . .

CONFEDERATE FLAG: Justices declined to get involved in a dispute over a Florida
high school student disciplined for displaying a small Confederate battle flag
on school grounds.

In 1995, Volusia County student Wayne Denno refused to put the flag away when
confronted by a school administrator and was then suspended from school for nine
days. Denno alleged a principal called him a racist, and the Florida school
system later said that Denno was trying to incite a riot.

Denno had some success in court, but the 11th U.S. Circuit Court of Appeals
ultimately ruled that the suit should be thrown out.

KLAN-ADOPTED HIGHWAY: The court asked the Justice Department for its views on
whether Missouri can ban the Ku Klux Klan from its Adopt-A-Highway cleanup
program. The state says it can keep the group out because it won't accept blacks
and other minorities as members, but a lower court said the state acted
unconstitutionally because of the klan's viewpoint. The justices will decide
later whether to hear the state's appeal.

TOBACCO SETTLEMENT: Justices turned aside a challenge to the 2-year-old national
tobacco settlement. They rejected an appeal that said smokers wound up paying
illegally higher prices for their cigarettes as a result of the landmark $
246-billion deal between the industry and the states.

BCCI: A retired Saudi government official ordered to pay $ 1.1-billion in
damages in connection with the BCCI banking scandal lost a Supreme Court appeal
Monday.

The court, without comment, rejected Abdul Raouf Hasan Khalil's argument that he
could not be forced to pay damages to the Bank of Credit and Commerce
International's court-appointed liquidators because his actions aimed to benefit
the bank, not harm it.


LOAD-DATE: October 31, 2000

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: DIGEST

                    Copyright 2000 Times Publishing Company


                              293 of 302 DOCUMENTS

                         St. Petersburg Times (Florida)

                          November 11, 2000, Saturday

Pope ties Eucharist to acts of charity

SOURCE: Compiled from Wire Reports

SECTION: HERNANDO TIMES; BRIEFLY; RELIGION; Pg. 10

LENGTH: 300 words



Pope John Paul II told some 35,000 pilgrims attending his general audience
Wednesday that the "profound significance of the Eucharist" is closely linked to
acts of charity and communion.

Although John Paul did not spell out the kinds of charity he expects from Roman
Catholics, he has often spoken of the need to help the weak and poor and to give
special consideration to immigrants.

The Vatican will hold an international symposium this weekend on "The Dignity of
the Migrant: The Message of Mother Cabrini."

The Italian-born nun, who spent most of her life working among Italian
immigrants in the United States, in 1946 became the first American citizen
elevated to sainthood.

John Paul devoted his customary teaching at the weekly audience to the
Eucharist, the sacrament of the body, blood, soul and divinity of Jesus, which
the Bible says Jesus instituted at his Last Supper with his disciples before his
crucifixion and resurrection.

Study: Most know little about United Methodists

The United Methodist Church, with its flaming cross logo, is one of the most
recognizable Protestant denominations, but a new survey says most people have
only a "soft" impression about who United Methodists are.

The study, conducted for the 8.4-million-member church by California pollster
George Barna, is the first stage in a $ 20-million "Igniting Ministries"
campaign to raise awareness of the church with nonchurch members.

Barna's study of 432 people between the ages of 25 and 54 found most respondents
liked what the church had to offer, but few had thought to look seriously at the
United Methodist Church.

Most respondents "have a "soft' impression or no impression of the United
Methodist Church, beyond name awareness," according to Barna's research.

- From wire reports


LOAD-DATE: November 11, 2000

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DISTRIBUTION: HERNANDO TIMES; CITRUS TIMES

TYPE: DIGEST

                    Copyright 2000 Times Publishing Company


                              294 of 302 DOCUMENTS

                         St. Petersburg Times (Florida)

             December 06, 2000, Wednesday, 0 South Pinellas Edition

Canada holds smuggling suspect

SOURCE: Compiled from Times Wires

SECTION: NATIONAL; Pg. 12A

LENGTH: 735 words

DATELINE: TORONTO; SANTIAGO, Chile; MIAMI; UNITED NATIONS; MEXICO CITY



The suspected central figure of a huge Chinese smuggling ring must remain in a
Canadian jail until his claim for refugee status gets settled, an immigration
adjudicator ruled Tuesday.

Lai Changxing and his wife, Tsang Mingna, face deportation to China, where Lai
would likely be executed, if Canada denies their refugee claims, their lawyers
say.

The case is sensitive in Canada, which prohibits capital punishment and has
tried to avoid deporting people who face a death sentence in their homeland.

Lawyers for Canada's immigration department say that the alleged crimes are
non-political and that Lai should be deported. Immigration and Refugee Board
adjudicator Daphne Shaw-Dyck on Tuesday ordered the couple to remain in custody
pending another detention hearing Dec. 21.

Chinese prosecutors accuse Lai of running a ring that smuggled $ 6.4-billion in
cars, oil, cigarettes and other products through the port of Xiamen in China's
Fujian province, avoiding $ 3.6-billion in import taxes.

The couple were arrested Nov. 23 for allegedly giving false or incomplete
information when they first entered Canada in August 1999.

Court voids Pinochet house arrest

SANTIAGO, Chile - An appeals court Tuesday suspended Gen. Augusto Pinochet's
house arrest while it studied a judge's explanation for indicting the former
dictator on homicide and kidnapping charges.

The court of appeals panel voted 3-0 to suspend Judge Juan Guzman's arrest order
until it decides whether to uphold or repeal his indictment of the 85-year-old
general.

Guzman submitted his explanation Tuesday, but its contents were unknown. The
court is to reconvene today or Thursday to hear arguments.

"Little Nut' convicted in drug case

MIAMI - A Miami federal jury Tuesday convicted former U.S. federal witness
Charles "Little Nut" Miller on narcotics charges.

Miller was found guilty of conspiring to send hundreds of pounds of Colombian
cocaine from his native island of St. Kitts to the United States in the 1990s.
His defense attorney, John Howes, said he will appeal the verdict, which ends
the reign of one of the Caribbean's most notorious figures.

Miller spent hours on the witness stand trying to navigate loopholes in U.S.
drug laws. He said he was merely a businessman who took millions of dollars in
"fees" from Colombian drug cartels for safeguarding cocaine shipments as they
passed through St. Kitts.

Miller's sentencing is Feb. 13; he faces a term of life without parole.

U.N. loosens Iraq oil restrictions

UNITED NATIONS - After a day of hard bargaining, a divided Security Council
agreed Tuesday night to give Iraq new leeway in spending the billions of dollars
in oil proceeds.

At the center of the package, incorporated in a six-month renewal of the Iraqi
"oil for food" program, is a provision pushed by France and other supporters of
Iraq that will allow the release to the Iraqis of 600-million euros, or $
525-million, to spend locally on repairing and maintaining their oil industry.
Council members also agreed unanimously to expand the list of goods that Iraq
will be allowed to import without seeking approval from a sanctions committee.

But Iraq will remain under U.N. monitoring and supervision, especially in
deciding how the cash will be spent on oil installations. Those guarantees
allowed the United States, the last holdout Tuesday night, to support the
resolution.

In a compromise, electrical equipment and housing supplies were added to the
list of approved imports. Telecommunications and transportation equipment were
mentioned as something to be considered in the future.

Fox: Give indigenous people more rights

MEXICO CITY - President Vicente Fox on Tuesday submitted a bill that would
dramatically expand the rights of Mexico's indigenous people, addressing a key
demand of the Zapatista rebels in Chiapas state.

Passage of the bill, which is not assured, would revise the constitution,
allowing indigenous communities to elect local authorities and exercise forms of
local government according to their traditions, as long as women's rights are
respected; acquire their own communication media; and participate with education
officials in designing bilingual school systems.

Government development plans would have to take into account indigenous people's
needs, and state legislatures could redraw municipal boundaries to reflect
traditional Indian community lines.


LOAD-DATE: December 6, 2000

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: DIGEST

                    Copyright 2000 Times Publishing Company


                              295 of 302 DOCUMENTS

                         St. Petersburg Times (Florida)

               December 14, 2000, Thursday, 2 Late Tampa Edition

Ailments lengthen visit - illegally

BYLINE: WES ALLISON

SECTION: TAMPA & STATE; Pg. 6B

LENGTH: 401 words

DATELINE: ST. PETERSBURG



Anna and Christos Moskou came to St. Petersburg to check out their daughter's
exciting new life in a strange land.

They are finding the immigration system too strange for their liking.

The Moskous' daughter, Nicole Moskou, is fighting to keep Anna Moskou in the
United States while her mom recovers from gall bladder surgery and a host of
other medical complications that could make it dangerous for her to leave.

Mrs. Moskou's doctor says she should not travel, but the U.S. Immigration and
Naturalization Service says there is no legal mechanism for allowing her to
stay. The INS required Mr. Moskou, 66, to leave the country Wednesday.

Nicole Moskou, 27, moved here in June and enrolled in St. Petersburg Junior
College, where she is studying to become a teacher. Her response has been very
American: to call the newspaper, contact her local congressman's office, hire a
lawyer.

Anna and Christos Moskou were admitted into the United States in August without
a visa on the condition they stay just 90 days, part of an agreement with
European nations.

During their trip, however, Mrs. Moskou became ill and needed gall bladder
surgery. She has since been plagued by complications, medical records indicate.

The INS granted a monthlong extension to the Moskous in November, but their
request for another extension was denied by local INS officials last week and
their time here expired Wednesday.

INS spokesman Rodney Germain said there's no legal provision for extending the
stay beyond another month, but local officials may have some leeway.

Jeff Wolder, officer-in-charge of the INS Tampa bureau, said late Wednesday that
he has asked the Moskous for an evaluation of Mrs. Moskou's health from another
doctor and an indication of how much time she needs to recover. He can then
consider the request.

Nicole Moskou expressed frustration about what she claims has been a lack of
communication by INS since last week's denial of the extension. And she worries
her mother, now here illegally, will be forced back to Sweden prematurely or not
allowed to return again.

"They came just to visit me, and all these bad things happened. It's ridiculous
that it has gotten to this point," she said Wednesday.

Her parents never intended to stay this long, she said. "All that we're asking
is a couple weeks or a month or so until a physician said, "Okay, it is safe to
go home.' "


LOAD-DATE: December 14, 2000

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DISTRIBUTION: TAMPA & STATE

                    Copyright 2000 Times Publishing Company


                              296 of 302 DOCUMENTS

                         St. Petersburg Times (Florida)

             December 14, 2000, Thursday, 0 South Pinellas Edition

She shouldn't leave, but she's not allowed to stay

BYLINE: WES ALLISON

SECTION: CITY & STATE; Pg. 3B

LENGTH: 424 words

DATELINE: ST. PETERSBURG



Anna Moskou has medical problems and shouldn't travel home to Sweden, her
surgeon says. But officials say there's no legal way she can stay.

Anna and Christos Moskou came to St. Petersburg to check out their daughter's
exciting new life in a strange land.

They are finding the immigration system too strange for their liking.

The Moskous' daughter, Nicole Moskou, is fighting to keep Anna Moskou in the
United States while her mom recovers from gall bladder surgery and a host of
other medical complications that could make it dangerous for her to leave.

Mrs. Moskou's doctor says she should not travel, but the U.S. Immigration and
Naturalization Service says there is no legal mechanism for allowing her to
stay. The INS required Mr. Moskou, 66, to leave the country Wednesday morning.

Nicole Moskou, 27, moved here in June and enrolled in St. Petersburg Junior
College, where she is studying to become a teacher.    Anna and Christos Moskou
were admitted into the United States in August without a visa on the condition
they stay just 90 days, part of an agreement with European nations.

During their trip, however, Mrs. Moskou became ill and needed gall bladder
surgery. She has since been plagued by complications, medical records indicate.
Her surgeon, Dr. Alvaro Bada, has advised her against traveling, and he has
written a letter to the INS stating that.

The INS granted a monthlong extension to the Moskous in November, but their
request for another extension was denied by local INS officials last week and
their time here expired Wednesday.

INS spokesman Rodney Germain said there's no legal provision for extending the
stay of such visitors beyond another month, but local officials may have some
leeway.

Jeff Wolder, officer-in-charge of the INS Tampa bureau, said late Wednesday that
he has asked the Moskous for an evaluation of Mrs. Moskous' health from another
doctor, as well as an indication of how much time she needs to recover. He can
then consider the request.

Nicole Moskou  worries her mother, who is now here illegally, will be forced
back to Sweden prematurely or not allowed to return again.

"They came just to visit me, and all these bad things happened. It's ridiculous
that it has gotten to this point," she said Wednesday.

Her parents have a pension and a home in Sweden and never intended to stay this
long, she said. "Especially after this, they do not want to. All that we're
asking is a couple weeks or a month or so until a physician said, "Okay, it is
safe to go home.' "


LOAD-DATE: December 14, 2000

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: BLACK AND WHITE PHOTO, DIRK SHADD; Nicole Moskou talks on the telephone
about her mother's situation while her mother, Anna, sits on the couch with her
legs elevated, wearing a therapeutic sock on her lower body.

                    Copyright 2000 Times Publishing Company


                              297 of 302 DOCUMENTS

                         St. Petersburg Times (Florida)

                            January 07, 2001, Sunday

The sacrifice in becoming American

BYLINE: JOHN FREEMAN

SECTION: PERSPECTIVE; BOOKS; Pg. 4D

LENGTH: 642 words



THE FUNERAL PARTY

By Ludmila Ulitskaya

Translated from the Russian by Cathy Porter

Shocken Books, $ 18.95

In the foreword of The Best American Short Stories of the Century, John Updike
praised American literature's ability to capture the scope of the immigrant
experience. Sometimes, however, the best literature about America comes from
beyond its shores.

Nabokov gently spoofed our bumbling Yankee soul, while de Toqueville plumbed its
democratic roots. In her graceful, fully realized U.S. debut, highly acclaimed
Russian novelist Ludmila Ulitskaya offers a portrait of the Russian migrant
experience and renders it vivid, fresh and memorable for those of us who have
not lived it. Even though she is Russian and lives in Moscow, Ulitskaya keenly
appreciates the bind of the immigrant: of how they yearn to become American, yet
must often sacrifice nearly everything to do this.

The Funeral Party unfolds over the course of several days as Alik, an artist and
leading light in a network of Russian immigrants in New York City, slowly dies
from a rare illness. Bed-bound but sentient, Alik watches in ironic disbelief as
girlfriends, friends, bartenders and gallery owners all descend on his
rent-controlled loft to tend his ailing spirit. In contrast to the many
well-wishers, Alik thrived in his new country. He takes his death in stride, for
in many ways, he has already relinquished everything that once made him Russian.
He has wrapped his tongue around the language, loosened up his sprit and dived
into the maelstrom of cultures that compose New York. He has given up everything
but his memories. And in the novel's elegant march toward death, these buried
experiences surge back to him through the faces - and words - of his friends.

Although it is a short novel - 160 pages in large font - The Funeral Party teems
with a cast of rich and engagingly complicated characters. There is Nina, Alik's
voluptuously delirious wife, who struggles in vain to get the dying painter to
accept a Christian baptism, as if he cannot die properly without forfeiting his
Russian, Jewish soul. Then there is Irina, a former acrobat who also has been
Alik's sometime lover (and financial benefactor). Practical and steely-eyed
before death, she frets over the bills that will pile up when Alik passes.
Finally, there is Maika, Irina's flinty daughter, who aids Alik in composing a
taped goodbye to America, Russia and his friends.

United before the spectacle of the dramatic change of power between Gorbachev
and Yeltsin, these characters realize that Alik's death will also sever their
ties to their homeland. Over time, Russia has become a mirage in their memory,
rather than the ground to which they return. Their vigil thus becomes a eulogy,
a shift in tone Ulitskaya portrays marvelously.

"There was nothing blue and green in this neighborhood," she writes, "this
apartment, their lives here had other nuances, other degrees of intensity, yet
each recalled the colours of their childhood: Valencia remembered Institute
street in Kaluga, running between two rows of pale lime trees to the soapy blue
Oka; Alik remembered the blues and greens of Moscow Province, the diffident
sweetly trusting colours of the spring foliage and the long tender shadows
across the sky; Faika remembered her village, its lank back gardens, and the
clumsy golden church domes against the bright-green hedge."

Through the novel's in lush, polished prose, the reader understands that, like
the best eulogies, this funeral party celebrates, rather than mourns, the
indelible memories provoked by loss. Finishing this affecting read, the reader
comprehends that even when Alik passes, "the past," as one character envisions
it, "couldn't be canceled. Why would anyone want to cancel it, anyway."

John Freeman is a freelance writer who lives in New York.


LOAD-DATE: January 12, 2001

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: BLACK AND WHITE PHOTO; The Funeral Party By Ludmila Ulitskaya

                    Copyright 2001 Times Publishing Company


                              298 of 302 DOCUMENTS

                         St. Petersburg Times (Florida)

               January 08, 2001, Monday, 0 South Pinellas Edition

INS standards need teeth

SECTION: EDITORIAL; EDITORIALS; Pg. 8A

LENGTH: 494 words



After a mountain of lawsuits alleging ill treatment and an investigation by the
Justice Department, the Immigration and Naturalization Service has issued
standards for the treatment of immigrants held in federal and county jails.
While the new standards provide some needed guidelines for housing these
prisoners, they do not have the force of law, carry no sanctions and fail to
address many of the larger issues plaguing the immigrant detainee system.

Most of the detainees are undocumented immigrants, asylum-seekers or those
awaiting a hearing or judge's decision in deportation proceedings. Some have not
been found guilty of any crime. About 20 percent of the prisoners - termed
indefinite detainees - cannot be deported, because their "home" countries will
not take them back.

The number of detainees (20,000, up from just 8,200 three years ago) has
overwhelmed the seven federal detention centers. As a result, many prisoners
have been shipped to county jails, which are not set up for long-term detention
and where - out of view of most regulators - many abuses occur.

The new guidelines specify that detainees must be able to call their legal
representatives, have access to health care and and be kept in sanitary
conditions. The guidelines would be helpful if jails had any incentive to follow
them. But nothing will happen to facilities that ignore them. Because the
guidelines are only suggestions, not rules, it will be difficult to make a legal
claim stick against a substandard facility.

To give these suggestions teeth, INS should consider stating that any facility
violating the rules will lose its federal contract, or be forced to pay steep
fines. Congress, too, has a role to play. Although the INS asked for about 80
officers to be assigned to monitor facilities under contract, funding was
provided for only 10. How seriously can the INS enforce new standards at up to
1,000 facilities nationwide with only 10 inspectors?

The standards also need to be broadened. They don't regulate the transfer of
detainees, which often takes place across state lines and without the knowledge
of a detainee's family or lawyer. Other guidelines, such as those concerning
access to lawyers by telephone, have technical problems. Many jails are set up
so that all outgoing calls must be collect calls, and the voice-mail systems at
most law offices cannot accept them. Moreover, most county jails around Florida
will not communicate messages to inmates, making face-to-face visits the only
sure way to check on a detainee's status or offer legal counsel.

These may seem like small problems, but to an asylum-seeker or someone awaiting
a deportation hearing, they can mean the difference between a miserable wait
with no chance to prevail, or a fair chance at due process without abuse. No
group in America has a more difficult time asserting its rights. The guidelines
governing detainees' treatment deserve to carry the force of law.


LOAD-DATE: January 9, 2001

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: EDITORIAL

                    Copyright 2001 Times Publishing Company


                              299 of 302 DOCUMENTS

                         St. Petersburg Times (Florida)

                            January 12, 2001, Friday

Family gets visas to attend funeral

BYLINE: BRADY DENNIS

SECTION: PASCO TIMES; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 623 words

DATELINE: DADE CITY



But the slain man's death bars his children from immigrating to the U.S., one
activist says.

While the Mexican Consulate in Orlando cleared the way on Thursday for murder
victim Florentino Cano's family to attend his funeral, a farm worker activist
said his death might prevent his children from becoming citizens.

Officials said Cano's mother, brother and sister, all from Nayarit, Mexico, had
applied for a short-term humanitarian visa and would fly to Orlando on Friday.

"The immigration authorities have been quite helpful," said Enrique Romero,
deputy counsel for the Mexican Consulate. "They understand the need for people
coming into the States for something like this."

Romero said Cano's mother, Dolores Gonzalez, 73; brother Rafael Cano, 32; and
sister Esperanza Cano, 46, should arrive in Dade City by this  afternoon.

Florentino Cano died Saturday after he  had been shot four times in his mobile
home at 36911 Thomas Jefferson Drive.

Pasco County sheriff's deputies charged Jonathan Dye Jones, 34, with the
shooting. Jones  had been acquitted in 1994 of the  slaying of his
ex-girlfriend, Kathryn Murphy.

Cano's death might bring another blow to his grieving family. He had three sons
- Miguel, Gustavo and Jorge - in addition to his three stepsons.

Officials at Farmworkers Self Help in Dade City said that because he had been a
permanent U.S. resident so long, Cano had applied for his sons to become legal
residents. That no longer can happen.

"When he was killed, they no longer can get legalization," said Araceli Corona,
assistant director at the center. "Once the person dies, the petition dies. Now
they have to start all over. That's the sad part of this."

Authorities say Jones and two women, Heather Marie Price and Toya Hicks, went to
Cano's mobile home Saturday planning to rob him. One woman would have sex with
him while the other  would steal his wallet, according to an affidavit.

Price told deputies she and Cano struggled after a disagreement about how much
he would pay her for having sex. The two women said Jones then came in the
bedroom and shot Cano  several times. Jones has denied the charges.

On Thursday, relatives and farm worker activists remembered Cano as a man who
always had a smile on his face.

"He was a very good person," said Magdalena Cano, in an interview through an
interpreter. "We were very good friends."  Her husband, Alejandro, was
Florentino Cano's cousin. She said Florentino, who was Catholic, lived with them
for four years before moving out on his own. She described him as a hard-working
man with a laid-back personality.

"He worked in the orange fields picking oranges, and he loved his job," Cano
said. "He would work Monday through Saturday. He would leave at 5 a.m. and come
back at 6 p.m.

"Florentino had many friends. I never saw him angry. He didn't bother anybody.
He just went about his business."

She said he had left work early, around 4 p.m., on the day of the shooting.

Corona said she, too, had heard much more good than bad about Cano.

"Everyone says Florentino was a very nice man, always helping people out," she
said. "We have talked to prostitutes who knew him as well. But what we should
remember most is that he was a human being who didn't deserve to die like he
did."

Hodges Funeral Home in Dade City will handle funeral arrangements for the Cano
family. Director Michael Hodges said the family will hold visitations on
Saturday night from 6 p.m. to 8 p.m. and Sunday from 1 p.m. to 3 p.m.

His funeral will be held at the home's chapel at 1 p.m. Monday.

- Brady Dennis covers the city of Zephyrhills and police in east Pasco. His
phone number is 352-521-5757, ext. 23. His e-mail is dennis@sptimes.com.


LOAD-DATE: January 13, 2001

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DISTRIBUTION: PASCO TIMES

                    Copyright 2001 Times Publishing Company


                              300 of 302 DOCUMENTS

                         St. Petersburg Times (Florida)

               September 27, 2004 Monday 0 South Pinellas Edition

Former Gitmo detainee killed in Afghanistan

SOURCE: Compiled from Times Wires

SECTION: NATIONAL; Pg. 3A

LENGTH: 369 words

DATELINE: KABUL, Afghanistan; GENEVA; PARIS


A senior Taliban commander who had been released from the U.S. detention center
in Guantanamo Bay, Cuba, was killed Saturday in Uruzgan province, Afghan
officials said.

The commander, Maulavi Ghaffar, had spent eight months in the Guantanamo prison,
said interior minister Ali Jalali. Ghaffar had been captured after fighting for
the Taliban in northern Afghanistan, Jalali said.

After Ghaffar's release more than a year ago, he was appointed the Taliban's
regional commander in Uruzgan and Helmand provinces, said Jan Mohammad Khan, the
governor of Uruzgan province. The governor said Ghaffar had carried out attacks
against U.S. Special Forces soldiers and an attack on a district chief in
Helmand. Three Afghan soldiers were killed in that attack.

The governor said that on Friday, officials learned that Ghaffar planned to
attack the police in Chachani district, and instead the Afghan forces killed him
and two of his men.

Officials in Afghanistan and the United States have indicated in the past that
at least five Afghan detainees released from Guantanamo had returned to
Afghanistan and again become Taliban commanders or fighters.

Swiss voters reject naturalization changes

GENEVA - Dashing the chance for almost 200,000 youngsters to get citizenship
easily, voters in Switzerland rejected two government proposals to loosen tough
naturalization rules in a referendum Sunday.

Nearly 57 percent of voters opposed granting automatic citizenship to
third-generation children born to immigrant families. In a slightly closer
result, nearly 52 percent rejected easing naturalization rules for first- and
second-generation residents raised and schooled in Switzerland.

French prime minister wins Senate seat

PARIS - Prime Minister Jean-Pierre Raffarin won a seat in French Senate
elections Sunday, a post that could be a useful fallback if there is truth to
the rumors that his days as government chief are numbered.

Sitting ministers are not allowed to hold positions in both the executive and
legislative branches of government, but they can prepare for the future by
running for Senate, appointing a member of the party faithful to fill the seat
and reclaiming it later in the term.

LOAD-DATE: September 27, 2004

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

SERIES: IN BRIEF

TYPE: DIGEST

                    Copyright 2004 Times Publishing Company


                              301 of 302 DOCUMENTS

                         St. Petersburg Times (Florida)

                December 25, 2000, Monday, 2 Late Tampa Edition

SECTION: TAMPA & STATE; OVERHEARD; Pg. 1B

LENGTH: 387 words



"It is a great day for justice. It feels as if I've awakened from the
nightmare."

- Mazen Al-Najjar of Tampa after walking out of a federal detention center in
Bradenton where he had been held for more than three years on secret evidence
that he was a terrorist. Al-Najjar, who was never charged with a crime, was
freed on bail after a judge concluded there was insufficient evidence to hold
him. He now faces a hearing on whether he should be deported for overstaying a
visa.

"While we understand the due process issues involved, he certainly is guilty in
association with some of the world's leading terrorists."

- From a "statement of concern" by members of the Greater Tampa B'nai B'rith on
Al-Najjar's release. The group opposes Al-Najjar's bid for political asylum to
stay in the U.S.

"We are holding down the same child we tried to raise and raise properly."

- City Council Chairman Charlie Miranda on parking problems in Ybor City.
Miranda joined other council members in waiving parking meter fees Sundays
through Wednesdays in Ybor City until the end of January. The move is designed
to help merchants through the holiday season and the Super Bowl.

"Is this a taste of the new compassionate conservatism?"

- Gael Murphy to the County Commission before it voted to delay a planned
increase in the quarter-cent sales tax for indigent care. The tax is now
scheduled to rise to a half-cent Oct. 1, unless the commission changes its mind
again.

"I wish someone would just kill me."

- Hillsborough sheriff's detective Linda Burton to a friend as she left a
federal courtroom where her credibility was repeatedly questioned by defense
attorneyes for Steve and Marlene Aisenberg, who are accused of lying to
investigators about the disappearance of their five-month-old baby, Sabrina, in
1997.

"I am annoyed to no end."

- Pinellas-Pasco Chief Judge Susan Schaeffer on a leak to the Tampa Tribune
about the contents of a secret grand jury report. She was not annoyed enough to
find out who leaked it, rejecting a motion by Circuit Judge Robert Bonanno to
find the newspaper and its source in contempt.

"I kind of feel that my heart got ripped out today."

- Assistant State Attorney Anthony Arena on news last week that he will not be
joining the staff of incoming State Attorney Mark Ober.


LOAD-DATE: December 26, 2000

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DISTRIBUTION: TAMPA & STATE

GRAPHIC: COLOR PHOTO; Mazen Al-Najjar

                    Copyright 2000 Times Publishing Company


                              302 of 302 DOCUMENTS

                         St. Petersburg Times (Florida)

                             August 27, 2004 Friday

Group targets human trafficking

BYLINE: BRIDGET HALL GRUMET

SECTION: PASCO TIMES; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 311 words


At first, David Gray thought the Tampa man was a godsend. When Gray needed to
find a home for two Albanian refugees, ages 15 and 18, the man agreed to take
them in and find them jobs.

Only later did Gray, director of the local World Relief affiliate that helps
refugees, discover the man was paying the boys $750 a month to sell flowers on
the street, then charging $750 a month for room and board.

Gray snatched the boys out of the home 13 years ago, not realizing it would be
one of his first encounters with human trafficking in America.

"We've been working through this situation without really realizing the
magnitude of it," Gray said.

With the federal government beefing up its efforts to fight human trafficking -
the forced use of immigrants as prostitutes, field laborers or other workers -
officials visited the Coalition for the Homeless of Pasco County on Thursday to
raise awareness of the issue.

"This is modern day slavery," said Andy Blom, a consultant hired by the U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services to promote Rescue and Restore, a program
for helping victims of human trafficking.

Blom said roughly 20,000 forced workers are smuggled into the United States
every year, but only 600 have escaped with the help of various agencies. Often
they live in fear of captors hurting them or their families if they try to
leave, he said.

The Tampa Bay area is one of several metropolitan areas where the feds are
seeking help from local agencies to find victims of human trafficking. Gray of
World Relief is spearheading the efforts among local agencies.

The toll-free national trafficking information and referral hotline is
1-888-3737-888.Bridget Hall Grumet covers Pasco County government. She can be
reached in west Pasco at 869-6244, or toll-free at 1-800-333-7505, ext. 6244.
Her e-mail address is hall@sptimes.com.

LOAD-DATE: August 27, 2004

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                    Copyright 2004 Times Publishing Company
