
                               1 of 280 DOCUMENTS

                         St. Petersburg Times (Florida)

               March 19, 1998, Thursday, 0 South Pinellas Edition

California immigration law nullified

SOURCE: Compiled from Times Wires

SECTION: NATIONAL; THE NATION; IN BRIEF; Pg. 6A

LENGTH: 427 words

DATELINE: LOS ANGELES; WASHINGTON



A federal judge has struck down virtually all remaining provisions of
Proposition 187, driving one more nail into the coffin of the California  ballot
initiative, which was passed in 1994 to deny social services to illegal
immigrants but has been blocked by court challenges ever since.

The ruling, issued late Tuesday by Judge Mariana Pfaelzer of U.S. District
Court in Los Angeles, confirmed and elaborated on her preliminary ruling of
last November, when she found that the measure unconstitutionally usurped
federal authority over immigration policy.

Pfaelzer's final ruling paves the way for an appeal by Gov. Pete Wilson,  who
made Proposition 187 a centerpiece of his re-election campaign in 1994.

In her latest ruling, Pfaelzer re-emphasized that the federal welfare  overhaul
signed into law by President Clinton in 1996 - which denied welfare  benefits to
illegal immigrants - made it even clearer that California was  "powerless to
enact its own legislative scheme to regulate immigration."

Pfaelzer said the state could not deny benefits to immigrants in the  state's
college and university systems, or deny access to health care or  social
services. Only provisions for criminal penalties for the manufacture,  sale and
use of false documents to conceal a person's immigrant status remain.

Committee approves U.S. budget plan

WASHINGTON - The Senate Budget Committee on Wednesday approved a budget
blueprint for next year after two days of lengthy debate over how to use
tobacco funds yet to appear.

The committee voted 12-10 along party lines for the budget plan for fiscal
1999, which starts Oct 1. The budget resolution simply sets goals, and  separate
spending and tax legislation is required to turn those goals into  law.

The plan, developed by Senate Budget Committee Chairman Pete Domenici of  New
Mexico, would set aside all federal funds that arise from any tobacco
legislation to ensure the solvency of the Medicare health program for the
elderly. Tobacco legislation has not been approved by Congress.

Democrats criticized that objective, saying any tobacco funds should go  toward
financing smoking-related health and education programs; otherwise it  would
endanger the chances for comprehensive tobacco legislation.

President Clinton's budget submitted in February proposed using tobacco  funds
for programs such as biomedical research, cancer treatment and child  health
care.

Domenici said the potential tobacco legislation was being treated as "a  giant
piggy bank."

LOAD-DATE: March 19, 1998

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: DIGEST

                    Copyright 1998 Times Publishing Company


                               2 of 280 DOCUMENTS

                         St. Petersburg Times (Florida)

              December 11, 1998, Friday, 0 South Pinellas Edition

Supreme Court delays Canadian's execution

SOURCE: Compiled from Times Wires

SECTION: NATIONAL; IN BRIEF; Pg. 3A

LENGTH: 498 words

DATELINE: HUNTSVILLE, Texas; ALBANY, N.Y.; WASHINGTON; NEW YORK



The Supreme Court delayed Thursday night's scheduled execution of a Canadian
convicted of murder, saying it needed more time to consider his appeal.

The stay came 30 minutes before Joseph Faulder, 61, was to be sent to the  Texas
death chamber for the 1975 murder of the matriarch of a Texas oil  family.
Another execution date can't be scheduled for sooner than 30 days.

Faulder's cause won support from government officials and death penalty  foes in
Canada, where capital punishment was banned in 1976, and from  Secretary of
State Madeleine Albright.

35 people arrested in immigrant smuggling ring

   ALBANY, N.Y. - Thirty-five people have been charged in an
immigrant-smuggling operation investigators say made $ 170-million in two years

 by bringing 3,600 Chinese citizens across the Canadian border into the United
States.

Authorities were searching for 12 more suspects.

The Chinese paid up to $ 47,000 each to make it to New York City's  Chinatown.
The smugglers used altered passports to get the immigrants onto  flights to
Canada. Once in Canada, they were taken to Cornwall, Ontario. From  there they
usually were taken across the St. Lawrence River to landing spots  along the St.
Regis Mohawk Indian reservation in upstate New York.

Early results show redesigned air bags safer

   WASHINGTON  - Air bags redesigned to avoid killing shorter people in minor
crashes appear to be forceful enough to protect larger adults in more severe
accidents, government data indicate.

The National Highway Traffic Safety Administration released information on  115
crashes involving the air bags installed in most new autos during the past
year. They stressed the data sample was small and dozens of investigations are
under way.

Federal officials had feared that in better protecting smaller people, the
redesigned air bags might not be strong enough in high-speed crashes to  protect
men who fail to wear seat belts. But that has not been the case,  officials
said.

FEC rejects big fines

for Clinton, Dole

   WASHINGTON - The Federal Election Commission voted 6-0 Thursday against
demanding multimillion dollar repayments from President Clinton and his 1996
Republican rival, former Sen. Bob Dole, for allegedly missusing party funds
during their presidential campaigns. Clinton campaign officials estimated that
they will owe $ 16,000 instead of $ 7-million. The Dole campaign expects to owe

 $ 3-million instead of $ 17.7-million.

Man who offered Jones $ 1-million arrested

   NEW YORK - Abe Hirschfeld, the parking lot tycoon who offered Paula Jones  $
1-million to settle her sexual harassment suit, was charged with trying to  have
his former business partner killed.

Prosecutors said Hirschfeld, 79, gave an intermediary $ 75,000 last year as  a
down payment for a hit man to kill Stanley Stahl.

Stahl, 73, was alerted to the plot and was not hurt.

LOAD-DATE: December 11, 1998

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: DIGEST

                    Copyright 1998 Times Publishing Company


                               3 of 280 DOCUMENTS

                         St. Petersburg Times (Florida)

              September 12, 1999, Sunday, 0 South Pinellas Edition

Hundreds more aliens intercepted

BYLINE: JIM FOX

SECTION: NATIONAL; THE CANADA REPORT; Pg. 12A

LENGTH: 789 words



Hundreds of more smuggled aliens have been discovered at Canada's doorstep,
arriving again by boat.

Police were escorting a fifth boatload of illegal Asian aliens taken from a
smuggling ship Friday off Vancouver Island.

The boat was boarded by Mounties and immigration officials in Nootka Sound. The
navy destroyer HMCS Huron was transporting them to Canadian Forces Base
Esquimalt.

The base is already housing Chinese migrants from three other ships discovered
off Canada's west coast this summer with a total of 450 people. A fifth
smuggling ship was found empty and abandoned in early July.

Immigration Minister Elinor Caplan said if the refugee claims are denied,
removal from Canada will be swift.

Most of the migrants paid smugglers thousands of dollars to take them to Canada,
with many en route to the United States.

Meanwhile, U.S. immigration officers intercepted 27 people concealed in a
semitrailer truck loaded with newsprint at the Canada-U.S. border in Quebec last
week.

The Chinese, Pakistani and Haitian immigrants were headed for Boston and New
York.

Body of Trudeau's son

to stay in lake

The frigid waters of Kokanee Lake in British Columbia will be the final resting
place for Michel Trudeau, son of former Prime Minister Pierre Trudeau.

Police divers were unable to find Michel Trudeau's body in searches last week.
He was swept into the lake in an avalanche while skiing in November.

Police think the body of Trudeau, who was 23, is in deep water in the small lake
in Kokanee Glacier Provincial Park in southeastern British Columbia.

"They're confident the body is deep enough within the lake that it will not
suffer any indignities," said Mountie Cpl. Randy Koch.

The lake's depth and high altitude meant divers couldn't stay under water as
long as at sea level, preventing them from searching it completely.

In brief

  NEW GOVERNOR-GENERAL: Former broadcaster Adrienne Clarkson of Toronto was
named Canada's next governor-general, an honorary title as Queen Elizabeth II's
representative in the country. The appointment of Clarkson, 60, was made
Wednesday by Prime Minister Jean Chretien. Clarkson will succeed Romeo LeBlanc,
71, on Oct. 7.

NEW DUTIES: Marcel Masse, 59, who left Canada's Cabinet in a ministerial shuffle
last month, has been appointed Canadian executive director for the
Inter-American Development Bank in Washington. Masse asked for less onerous
government duties for personal and health reasons.

EX-OFFICIAL BURIED: The funeral was held Wednesday in Verdun, Quebec, for Bryce
Mackasey, a former federal Liberal Cabinet minister. Mackasey, who died last
weekend at 78, was first elected to the Commons in 1962 and was re-elected five
times through 1974.

MOLSON JOBS LOST: Seven hundred marketing and operations workers will lose their
jobs as brewer Molson Inc. of Montreal "reinvents" the organization. The company
is considering closing one of its breweries and wants to sell the Molson Center,
where the Montreal Canadiens play hockey.

Facts and figures

Canada's jobless rate rose to 7.8 percent in August from 7.7 percent a month
earlier, Statistics Canada said Friday.

The Canadian dollar was higher Friday at 67.81 U.S. cents while the U.S. dollar
was $ 1.4747 Canadian before exchange fees.

The Bank of Canada's key interest rate remains 4.75 percent and the prime
lending rate is 6.25 percent.

Canadian stock markets advanced, with the Toronto 300 Index at 7,168 points
Friday, while Montreal was 3,765 points, Alberta, 2,689 points, and Vancouver,
413 points.

Lotto 6-49: (Wednesday) 9, 18, 22, 25, 42 and 49; bonus 44. (Sept. 4) 2,12, 40,
42, 45 and 47; bonus 28.

Regional briefs

CRASH EVIDENCE LOST: Ontario Provincial Police said the intense fire that
engulfed cars and transport trucks, killing seven people on Highway 401 near
Windsor-Detroit on Sept. 3, destroyed key evidence. Fog and visibility remain
the focus of the investigation in the 80-vehicle wreck.

CHARGES REMAIN: Nine sex-related charges against former Nova Scotia Premier
Gerald Regan, 71, can proceed, the province's Court of Appeal ruled Friday.
Regan was acquitted last year of eight more serious charges, including rape
involving girls as young as 14.

EX-PREMIER SUBPOENAED: British Columbia's former premier, Glen Clark, has been
subpoenaed to appear at a trial Oct. 18 alleging his government fudged the books
to get re-elected in 1996. Clark resigned last month over a casino-licensing
scandal.

MAPLE LEAF GARDENS: Toronto's famed former hockey shrine, Maple Leaf Gardens,
might soon be history. Maple Leaf Sports and Entertainment Ltd. is looking at
the redevelopment or sale of the 68-year-old building now that the Leafs play in
the new Air Canada Center.


LOAD-DATE: September 13, 1999

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                    Copyright 1999 Times Publishing Company


                               4 of 280 DOCUMENTS

                         St. Petersburg Times (Florida)

                           January 15, 1998, Thursday

22 illegal aliens arrested in sweep

BYLINE: AMY ELLIS

SECTION: PASCO TIMES; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 307 words

DATELINE: NEW PORT RICHEY



Immigration officials rounded up 22 illegal Mexican aliens in Pasco County on
Wednesday.

All of the men and women had been working illegally for Luke Brothers Inc.,  a
lawn-care service in New Port Richey, said Jeff Wolder, a supervisor for the
U.S. Immigration and Naturalization Service in Tampa.

"This was an enforcement-type operation based on information we received  from
the Police Department in recent months," Wolder said. "All of these  people are
now in Bradenton awaiting deportation hearings."

The investigation is ongoing and immigration officials have requested
employment records from Luke Brothers, Wolder said. Employers are required to
obtain proof of citizenship or legal alien status from all employees.

"In most cases, we find aliens that are using counterfeit documents that  they
purchased," Wolder said. "There's a pretty good business out there for  that."

More arrests may be made as the investigation continues, he said.

Pete Lucadano, co-owner of Luke Brothers, said he has paperwork on all of  his
100 employees. He was not told by immigration officials which of his  employees
were detained.

Wolder said his department does not release names of detained aliens. New  Port
Richey police Lt. Darryl Garman said his agency only assisted in the  operation
and did not have the names.

Lucadano said his company often offers work to people who have few  prospects or
references. He offers work to teens who have gotten into trouble  with the law
or people who recently have been released from prison.

"We try to give people a second chance," he said. "But we are a  legitimate
business too, so we always get all the required paperwork. I think,  in these
cases, the government had reason to suspect that these people had  phony
identification. We have no way of knowing."

LOAD-DATE: January 15, 1998

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DISTRIBUTION: PASCO TIMES; HERNANDO TIMES; CITY & STATE

                    Copyright 1998 Times Publishing Company


                               5 of 280 DOCUMENTS

                         St. Petersburg Times (Florida)

               August 08, 1999, Sunday, 0 South Pinellas Edition

INS charade angers duped delegation

BYLINE: SARA FRITZ

SECTION: NATIONAL; Pg. 3A

LENGTH: 720 words

DATELINE: WASHINGTON



Some members of Congress still get angry when they recall being duped during a
1995 tour of a detention center for illegal immigrants in Miami. Many detainees
were moved out of the office, extra staff was called in on overtime to beef up
supervision and guards shed their guns to give the center a relaxed atmosphere.

"It was just a dog-and-pony show," Rep. Elton Gallegly, R-Calif., said recently.

What makes Gallegly and others even angrier is knowing that the INS officials
responsible for the charade are still employed by the agency, having escaped
their recommended discipline.

Too often, government bureaucrats are blamed for problems that are not their
fault - the tremendous expansion of government over the past five decades, the
soaring national debt and many conflicting rules and regulations. And
frequently, members of Congress who complain about these things are themselves
culpable for helping to create the problems.

But in the case of the Miami detention center, members of Congress have a
reasonable gripe.

"There is something seriously wrong with a system that protects employees who
have committed such grievous acts," Gallegly said.

The story of the detention center charade and the government's efforts to deal
with those responsible will go down as classic in the annuals of bureaucratic
ineptitude. "Indefensible" is the word Justice Department Inspector General
Michael R. Bromwich used.

It started June 10, 1995, when a delegation of seven members of Congress visited
the Krome Service Processing Center to determine how well the INS was handling
the large number of undocumented foreigners flowing into South Florida.

Only afterward did they learn that 59 detainees - including nine convicted
criminals - were released to create a false impression that the center was
better managed than it was. Thirty-five of them had not been medically cleared
for release, meaning they could have been carrying deadly diseases or infections
into the community.

"The INS endangered Americans because it released criminals into their
neighborhoods and then covered it up," said Rep. Lamar Smith, R-Texas, also a
member of the delegation.

Following a Justice Department investigation, Bromwich recommended that Valerie
Blake, the INS deputy district director in Miami, be dismissed for ordering
subordinates to carry out the plan, instructing them to provide false responses
to questions posed by the delegation, authoring two false or misleading memos
and refusing to cooperate with the investigation.

Constance Weiss, the Krome Camp administrator, and Michael Devine, who worked
for Weiss, were recommended to receive minimum suspensions of 30 days and
demotions in rank. The Justice Department said Weiss authored an e-mail that
acknowledged some detainees had been "stashed out of sight for cosmetic
purposes," and Devine was one of the recipients.

Yet while other employees accepted their punishments, Blake, Weiss and Devine
appealed to the Merit Systems Protection Board, an independent agency where
administrative law judges reversed the Justice Department's recommendations.
Instead, Blake was given a 60-day suspension and a demotion and the other two
were exempted from discipline.

According to Bromwich, the administrative judges ruled there was no evidence
that Blake set out to deceive the delegation. He said her actions were more
likely to have been "the result of an overzealous effort to present a
sharp-looking heads-up group of employees doing their jobs."

At the same time, the judges ruled Weiss had only been following orders and that
Devine had not read the e-mail, even though he forwarded it to a co-worker.

In a letter to Congress, Bromwich said Blake, Weiss and Devine took advantage of
a positive Catch-22. He noted that the judges "excused managers because they
were merely subordinates who could not be held responsible for following orders
while at the same time excusing other managers on the theory that they could not
be expected to know what their subordinates are doing."

Blake, Weiss and Devine declined an opportunity to tell their side of this
story. At INS, spokeswoman Maria Cardona distanced her agency from the
administrative law judges' decisions, noting that INS had nothing to do with the
investigation or the reprimands.


LOAD-DATE: August 9, 1999

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                    Copyright 1999 Times Publishing Company


                               6 of 280 DOCUMENTS

                         St. Petersburg Times (Florida)

              March 08, 2000, Wednesday, 0 South Pinellas Edition

INS treats children shamefully

SECTION: EDITORIAL; EDITORIALS; Pg. 14A

LENGTH: 398 words



Reaching the U.S. mainland usually is no easy feat for illegal immigrants
fleeing their homelands. Whether crossing the ocean by boat or trudging miles
across desert, immigrants nearly always face a journey that is dangerous and
traumatic. For the children of these immigrants, who often have no say in their
parents' decision to flee to the United States, that trauma too often is
compounded once they arrive - by an American immigration system that treats kids
like criminals.

The Immigration and Naturalization Service says children detained by the agency
must be moved to a safe, kid-friendly environment within 72 hours of their
initial detention, unless they are suspected criminals or considered a flight
risk. Advocates for these children say that rule rarely is enforced. Instead,
immigrant children typically are separated from their loved ones and locked in
juvenile detention facilities, often before the INS has a chance to determine
the family's status.

Because of a worsening space crunch at INS facilities, nearly 1,000 of the 4,000
children detained by the INS within the past year have been remanded to secure,
jail-like facilities where many have remained for months. The children typically
wear prison uniforms, and many are forced to mingle with the teenage convicts
also housed in the facilities. Unlike the convicts, immigrant children get no
legal representation, and no adult guardians are appointed to protect their
interests.

This shameful treatment of children is a symptom of the broader problems
plaguing U.S. immigration policy. It is a system that allows legal U.S.
residents to be detained indefinitely on the basis of secret evidence. It is a
system that no longer gives judges discretion in deportation cases. And it is a
system that even the INS's own chief has described as slow, inefficient and
poorly managed.

The INS is expected to issue new rules that will require jails housing
non-criminal INS detainees to meet specific standards of care. Immigrant
advocates hope the new rules will give detainees the right to make phone calls,
meet with lawyers and prevent guards from subjecting them to arbitrary strip
searches.

Even if those rules pass, they should be only the first of many reforms
initiated by the INS and Congress to ensure that all detainees - especially
children - are treated more humanely by the U.S. government.


LOAD-DATE: March 8, 2000

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: EDITORIAL

                    Copyright 2000 Times Publishing Company


                               7 of 280 DOCUMENTS

                         St. Petersburg Times (Florida)

             September 02, 1999, Thursday, 0 South Pinellas Edition

Man arrested in ID fraud for illegal immigrants

SECTION: CITY & STATE; BRIEFLY; Pg. 4B

LENGTH: 234 words

DATELINE: ST. PETERSBURG



A local janitorial company is accused of running a sophisticated operation that
furnished illegal immigrants with fake identification so they could work as
maids and dishwashers in beach hotels.

The Immigration and Naturalization Service arrested Serguei Lepekha, described
as the operator of Florida Coastal Maintenance, also called Florida Coastal
Cleaning.

Lepekha, 34, of 535 South Creek Drive, Osprey, was being held without bail
Wednesday night in the Hillsborough County Jail. He is charged with unlawfully
employing aliens, misusing visas and defrauding the Social Security
Administration.

The INS alleges that Lepekha recruited workers from Eastern Europe and got them
fraudulent Social Security cards and drivers' licenses.

Last fall, the INS arrested 47 Eastern Europeans working at hotels such as the
Don CeSar Beach Resort and the Tradewinds on St. Pete Beach. The INS says 36 of
them worked for Florida Coastal. Several told investigators that Lepekha hired
them, provided them with false documentation and rented apartments for them.

The INS says the same pattern was revealed in March when agents arrested 12
illegal workers at the Holiday Inn-SunSpree Resort on Clearwater Beach and four
illegal workers at Sheraton Suites Hotel in Tampa.

Local hoteliers said they were unaware they were employing illegal aliens. They
said they had been provided fake identification.


LOAD-DATE: September 2, 1999

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: DIGEST

                    Copyright 1999 Times Publishing Company


                               8 of 280 DOCUMENTS

                         St. Petersburg Times (Florida)

              April 15, 1998, Wednesday, 0 South Pinellas Edition

Stowaways missing after jumping ship

BYLINE: SUSAN CLARY

SECTION: CITY & STATE; Pg. 4B

LENGTH: 380 words

DATELINE: TAMPA



Police are searching for two stowaways who jumped into the water Tuesday
morning as the freighter they were aboard prepared to dock in Tampa.

Their names and backgrounds were unknown to immigration officials, who  issued a
warning that they could be dangerous.

Five other stowaways who also jumped overboard were captured, along with an
eighth stowaway who remained on board and was taken into custody after the
freighter docked.

The captain of the Indian Express told police he radioed authorities as  soon as
he learned eight men had secretly boarded the boat in the Dominican  Republic.

He was preparing to turn them over to the authorities when seven of the men
jumped overboard about 5:15 a.m. A search by air, land and sea was undertaken
by police, firefighters, deputies, the U.S. Border Patrol and the Coast Guard.

Six of the men are being detained, including one found running across a  street
near the port and another found hiding in the water. It's possible the  other
two drowned, but police said they believe they managed to evade the  search.

It was the second time in the past few weeks that stowaways from the  Dominican
Republic boarded a ship headed for Tampa.

"Most of these people are not eligible to come because they have no means  of
supporting themselves," said James Minton, officer in charge for the U.S.
Immigration and Naturalization Service. "Generally, they sneak on, but
sometimes they are aided by a longshoreman or a crew member."

Authorities will investigate how the men were able to board the ship, which
took about 2 1/2 days to carry lumber from the Dominican Republic to Tampa.

The INS provided the six men who were captured with showers, clothing and  food.
They are: Victor Miguel Vizcaino, 25; Camilo Polanco-Montero, 19; Jose
Wantes-Frian, 27; Manuel Fria, 19; Franklin Campusano-Aguerro, 17; and Ramon
Lopez-Aria, 19.

Federal law requires that a ship responsible for bringing stowaways must  pay to
secure them and return them to their home country. The owner of the  Indian
Express, James Shipping, may face fines up to $ 2,000 per person.

Officials with James Shipping did not return telephone calls Tuesday. The
Indian Express is scheduled to travel to Houston on Saturday.

LOAD-DATE: April 16, 1998

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DISTRIBUTION: CITY & STATE; METRO & STATE; TAMPA & STATE

GRAPHIC: BLACK AND WHITE PHOTO, KEN HELLE; "Indian Express" from which two
stowaways jumped Tuesday. (ran in CITY & STATE, METRO & STATE)

                    Copyright 1998 Times Publishing Company


                               9 of 280 DOCUMENTS

                         St. Petersburg Times (Florida)

               August 14, 1998, Friday, 0 South Pinellas Edition
                              Correction Appended

Most immigrants will keep Social Security

BYLINE: KATHERINE PFLEGER

SECTION: NATIONAL; Pg. 5A

LENGTH: 372 words

DATELINE: WASHINGTON



The Social Security Administration had planned to tell 15,000 immigrants,
identified as illegal aliens, that they would receive their final Supplemental
Security Income check next month.

But on Thursday officials had a change of heart.

The administration now thinks that more than three-quarters of the disabled  and
elderly immigrants on its cut-off list legally reside in the United States  and
deserve the subsidy, as much as $ 494 a month used to pay for necessities.

"We're not going to terminate anyone unless we are sure they shouldn't  receive
benefits," said Social Security spokeswoman Cathy Noe.

The administration's decision is the latest delay in the drive to push  illegal
immigrants off the welfare rolls. The effort is part of the 1996  bipartisan
welfare overhaul.

When officials tried to implement the law, they found a bureaucratic  nightmare.
Legal immigrants had lost their paperwork. Some were physically or  mentally ill
and lived in nursing homes. Others didn't speak English or  understand how the
system worked.

Additionally, the Immigration and Naturalization Service hasn't kept  accurate
records on people who have lived in the United States for decades.  New
applicants, meanwhile, are waiting up to two years to become citizens and
therefore be eligible for federal aid.

Social Security planned to terminate benefits for the 15,000 immigrants by
letter. Now the administration plans to write each person and ask them to go  to
a local Social Security office to have their immigration status evaluated.

If immigrants don't respond, or are unable to because they are disabled,  local
claims representatives will try to locate them by telephone or in  person.

While advocates for immigrants welcomed Social Security's new strategy,  they
are still worried that people could wind up destitute. In Florida, almost  4,000
immigrants have to prove their status.

"It gives another opportunity to grab a hold of people and tell them to  come
in," said Josh Bernstein, policy analyst at the National Immigration Law
Center. But "even with that change, people will fall through the cracks."

The administration estimates that as few as 1,700 people could lose SSI.

LOAD-DATE: August 19, 1998

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

CORRECTION-DATE: August 15, 1998

CORRECTION:
 Many immigrants will continue to receive a disability benefit called
Supplemental Security Income under a policy announced this week. A headline in
Friday's Times said otherwise.

                    Copyright 1998 Times Publishing Company


                              10 of 280 DOCUMENTS

                         St. Petersburg Times (Florida)

              October 15, 1998, Thursday, 0 South Pinellas Edition

U.S. agents are abusing migrants, report says

BYLINE: DAVID ADAMS

SECTION: NATIONAL; Pg. 14A

LENGTH: 680 words

DATELINE: MIAMI



Since tougher laws passed by Congress two years ago, raids by police and U.S.
immigration agents have had "a devastating impact" on immigrant workplaces  and
neighborhoods, according to a study published Wednesday by the National  Network
for Immigrant and Refugee Rights.

The report, put together by a task force of immigration advocates and  community
groups, concludes that raids threaten the constitutional rights of  legal and
illegal immigrants alike, inflict terror and brutality on migrant  workers and
humiliate their families.

"We get kicked, we get punched, we get beat up and many times we get  killed,"
said Luckner Millien of the Farmworkers Association of Florida.  "These raids
are a violation of our human rights."

Millien was speaking at a news conference of human rights advocates that  was
part of a nationwide week of action to protest the Immigration and
Naturalization Service raids.

The report comes less than a month after Amnesty International, the
London-based human rights organization, condemned a nationwide pattern of  human
rights abuses in the United States, including cases in which immigrants  in
Florida were subjected to inhumane jail conditions and beatings.

The immigration group's report, called "Portrait of Injustice," blames  the
abuses on passage in 1996 of the Illegal Immigration Reform and Immigrant
Responsibility Act, which significantly increased the resources and personnel
for enforcement operations.

"The INS is now the largest federal agent force in the U.S. authorized to  carry
guns and make arrests," said Cheryl Little, director of the Florida  Immigrant
Advocacy Center. "That's pretty alarming."

According to Little, INS and Border Patrol agents often violate the law by
verbally and physically abusing people and blatantly discriminating against
ethnic minorities. "They have the right to detain, but they cannot detain
people unless they have a good reason and then they must also respect people's
human rights," she said.

Legal migrant workers and U.S. residents are often caught up in INS raids  just
because they look Hispanic or are dark-skinned, she said.

Esperanza Fernandez, 28, described how she was attending a weekly Mexican  dance
in Homestead, a farming town south of Miami, when INS agents raided the  club.
"They surrounded us like we were some kind of drug dealers," she said.

Fernandez, who is of Mexican heritage but was born and raised in Florida,  was
allowed to go free after being questioned, but others were rounded up and  taken
away by bus. "They didn't have their papers with them, but it was a  dance for
crying out loud," she said. "I know that if my skin had been  white, not brown,
they would never have asked me those questions."

Other victims told how INS agents, accompanied by police and dogs,  conducted a
nighttime raid last year on two Hispanic neighborhoods in Crescent  City, a
community north of Orlando. Homes allegedly were broken into and 30  people were
arrested.

For two weeks afterward, Hispanic residents - legal and illegal - were  afraid
to go to work or send their children to school. Some even hid in nearby  woods.

In another case in Miami in April, agents raided the First Paragon flower
company, shouted orders and pushed and struck workers as they demanded to see
their documentation. The workers, mostly Hispanic, were forced to sit on a wet
floor in a cold storage area. A pregnant woman fainted, and a melee broke out
when a supervisor, a legal resident from Cuba, resisted being handcuffed.

The immigration crackdown also has been felt in the Tampa Bay area. The  INS,
rather than go through expensive deportation proceedings, has recently  demanded
that hotel owners fire illegal immigrants on their staff.

INS officials argue that allegations made against its agents are one-sided  and
that raids inevitably target ethnic neighborhoods. In cases where abuses  are
alleged, the INS says it has carried out investigations and unprofessional
conduct has been punished.

LOAD-DATE: October 15, 1998

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                    Copyright 1998 Times Publishing Company


                              11 of 280 DOCUMENTS

                         St. Petersburg Times (Florida)

              January 26, 1999, Tuesday, 0 South Pinellas Edition

Immigration injustice

SECTION: EDITORIAL; EDITORIALS; Pg. 10A

LENGTH: 441 words



A Thai family tries to comply with the law but finds itself broken apart by
draconian legislation and INS inefficiency.   When you hear of some situations,
you just have to shake your head in disbelief. Consider the tale of Narong "Tom"

 Chulikavit and his wife Amornrat.   Due to draconian changes in immigration law
and the inefficiency of the Immigration and Naturalization Service, a loving,
hard-working family is now half a world apart.   Carrollwood restaurateur Tom
Chulikavit thought he was complying with immigration law when he, a legal
resident alien, sent his Thai wife and two young American-born sons to Thailand
so she could apply for a visa or green card to enter the country legally.
Amornrat had come here on a student visa that expired when she quit school after
becoming pregnant. She applied for a green card in 1995, but the INS hasn't
gotten around to considering her application because of a backlog of requests.
   In the meantime, Congress passed a law requiring all illegal aliens, even
those who had a claim for legal status pending, to leave the country or be
banned for 10 years.   The tragedy and hardship that this law created for the
Chulikavit family was shared by many others across the country. In response to
the outcry over the family breakups this law was creating, Congress changed it
to allow illegal aliens applying for legal status to remain in the country
during the process and pay $ 1,000. But the change came too late for the
Chulikavits. Amornrat and the boys had already moved 9,000 miles away. Now she
can't get back. The U.S. embassy in Thailand won't give her a tourist visa
because it has reason to believe she'll overstay it, so she has to wait for a
green card or for her husband's naturalization to become final. Neither looks
imminent.   Rather than U.S. Rep. Bill McCollum, R-Longwood, filing a private
bill to bring a politically well-connected deported thief and drug addict back
to this country, he and the rest of Florida's congressional delegation should be
addressing the problems of families such as the Chulikavits. These are people
who tried to follow the law and are now suffering for doing so.    In addition
to Congress' sledgehammer legislating, the INS deserves the blame for this
untenable situation. A green card application shouldn't take years to process.
With all the extra personnel and resources the agency has been given the last
few years, it should be significantly more efficient.   As Tom and Amornrat wait
for INS action, their boys, Tai and Toon, grow up in a foreign land without a
father. How can this be promoting family values?

LOAD-DATE: January 26, 1999

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: EDITORIAL

                    Copyright 1999 Times Publishing Company


                              12 of 280 DOCUMENTS

                         St. Petersburg Times (Florida)

                July 26, 1999, Monday, 0 South Pinellas Edition

Congress moves to soften effect of immigration laws

BYLINE: SUSAN ASCHOFF

SECTION: NATIONAL; Pg. 5A

LENGTH: 807 words



Three years after Congress passed legislation to crack down on illegal
immigrants, its members have introduced almost a dozen bills to salvage what
some say the United States lost getting tough: its compassion.

The bills address issues ranging from restoration of medical benefits for legal
residents to freedom for immigrants who spend years in detention while their
cases wind through the system. While each of the proposed changes likely will
move through committee separately, supporters are promoting passage under the
single umbrella of a kinder, gentler America.

"In 1996, Congress overreacted to a short-lived backlash against immigration in
the harshest crackdown in 70 years. Now there's a bipartisan effort to correct
some of the excesses," says Frank Sharry, executive director of the National
Immigration Forum.

The forum is one of many civil rights and immigrant advocacy groups, businesses
and labor unions, religious institutions and others supporting a more balanced
approach. A news conference to launch "Fix 96" is scheduled this week in
Washington.

Three major immigration bills passed by Congress in 1996 targeted illegal
immigration largely by making no-exception rules about who may stay. Concern
over the number of immigrants and non-citizens who commit crimes, strain social
services or espouse unpopular political views drove passage.

However, in its zeal to deal with those concerns, critics say, Congress and the
Immigration and Naturalization Service went overboard. Publicity since then
about immigrants trapped by the laws' rigidity and lack of compassion has
educated lawmakers, says GOP Rep. Lincoln Diaz-Balart of Miami. He is a
co-sponsor of bills to restore disability and elderly benefits to legal
residents, and to stop indefinite detention of immigrants who cannot be deported
to their home country, such as Cubans and Vietnamese.

"It's a slow mending process," Diaz-Balart says. "There were a lot of things in
the 1996 laws that people didn't know were in it."

Others say they see a shift in public opinion about immigration. A strong
economy quells fears that immigrants compete for jobs. Political candidates are
more sensitive to immigration issues: More than 7-million immigrants have become
citizens during the past quarter-century and their emerging political clout
encourages sensitivity, say Sharry and others.

"In many respects, Florida has been the place where a return to balance has been
engineered," Sharry says. "Since 1996, it's really been Florida legislators
mediating" the issues. He cites more bipartisan support, including Republicans
such as Sen. Connie Mack and Gov. Jeb Bush.

Bills under consideration would:

 Restore certain benefits for immigrants who arrived after 1996's welfare reform
and fell through the cracks, including elderly and disabled legal residents who
qualify for medical care and supplemental income.

 Review automatic deportation of residents who have committed minor crimes in
the past.

 Bar the use of secret evidence to keep immigrants in jail without rebuttal or
trial.

 Make provisions for Salvadorans, Guatemalans, Haitians and Hondurans to become
permanent residents, as was done for Nicaraguans and Cubans.

 Guide INS decisions on which asylum-seekers should be detained while they wait
for rulings.

Earlier this month, separate rulings by immigration and federal judges prompted
INS to begin releasing significant numbers of immigrants who were detained
indefinitely because they could not be deported to their home countries. The
immigrants, known as "lifers," have completed criminal sentences but were in
jail in what amounted to life sentences because the 1996 legislation mandates
their deportation but their countries do not accept deportees.

INS defends itself against accusations of punitive treatment, saying Congress
made the laws and the agency is bound to enforce them. Critics counter that INS
has always had discretion.

"There's nothing wrong with the law. It's the administration," says Allen Kay,
spokesman for Rep. Lamar Smith, R-Texas, co-author of the Illegal Immigration
Control and Immigrant Responsibility Act of 1996.

The anecdotal or isolated case of excess, Kay says, does not negate the problems
that prompted the legislation.

"More than 5-million illegal aliens are living permanently in the United States;
300,000 to 400,000 more are arriving every year," he says. "The American people
understand that illegal immigration is trampling the rules."

Bills could have until the end of the fall 2000 session to survive committee
consideration and reach the floor for a vote. "Fix 96" groups recognize their
efforts could take years, Sharry says.

But they see good reason for hope.

"The debate was about the faceless hordes," Sharry says. "Now the debate is
about my neighbor."


LOAD-DATE: July 27, 1999

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                    Copyright 1999 Times Publishing Company


                              13 of 280 DOCUMENTS

                         St. Petersburg Times (Florida)

            September 25, 1996, Wednesday, 0 South Pinellas Edition

Immigration politics

SECTION: EDITORIAL; EDITORIALS; Pg. 10A

LENGTH: 401 words



In an effort to salvage the illegal immigration reform bill, congressional
Republicans finally backed off their plan to penalize the school children of
illegal immigrants - and bucked Bob Dole, their presidential candidate, in the
process. Unfortunately, the bill they struggled to save is still a severely
flawed piece of work.

Though the proposal to allow states to deny public education to illegal
immigrants was a cornerstone of the House-passed version, it faced a Senate
filibuster and a presidential veto. Anxious to save both face and the  remainder
of the bill, Republicans agreed to uncouple the education proposal  from the
rest of the bill and vote separately on each.

Dole belatedly endorsed the move in a letter to conferees. But earlier this
month, he tried to strong-arm his former colleagues into retaining the
controversial amendment in an attempt to torpedo the immigration reform bill -
one he had supported when he was in the Senate - to keep Clinton from scoring
political points. That's not just hard-ball. That's irresponsible.
Congressional Republicans deserve some credit for defying Dole, even if they
acted out of political self-interest. The Republicans want to take an
immigration bill, even a watered-down one, back home to their constituents
before election time.

Though improved, the bill has other problems which still merit that
presidential veto. The conference report gives virtually unchecked authority  to
the Immigration and Naturalization Service to turn away immigrants, with  false
papers or none, who seek asylum from genocide, political death squads or  other
forms of persecution. Though the conferees softened this summary  exclusion
procedure by inserting a meager administrative review, that is still  not
sufficient. Also included are restrictions on benefits to legal immigrants  more
onerous than those contained in the new welfare bill. These defects  overshadow
the bill's constructive provisions, such as a doubling of the  number of Border
Patrol officers.

The Clinton administration has voiced tepid concern and has so far withheld  its
promise of support. But undoubtedly eager to claim victory himself,  Clinton
cannot be counted on to veto the bill even with these glaring  problems. On
illegal immigration reform, like welfare, he might not be that  far behind Dole
on the pander meter.

LOAD-DATE: September 25, 1996

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: EDITORIAL

                    Copyright 1996 Times Publishing Company


                              14 of 280 DOCUMENTS

                         St. Petersburg Times (Florida)

             September 28, 1996, Saturday, 0 South Pinellas Edition

Inhumane reform

SECTION: EDITORIAL; EDITORIALS; Pg. 10A

LENGTH: 497 words



Even in a year when immigrants are the target of so much political scorn, the
immigration reform bill passed by the U.S. House this week was especially
mean-spirited. The bill purports to get tough on our borders and close legal
loopholes that let too many illegal immigrants into the country. What it also
does is deny both legal and illegal immigrants a level of humane treatment  that
is supposedly a part of the American character.

Immigrants, even those in the United States legally, would be denied public
health services if they have AIDS or test positive for HIV. An illegal
immigrant who carries the AIDS virus would be deported. Those with AIDS are
singled out by the bill; immigrants who suffer from other communicable  diseases
would be eligible for public health treatment.

Such a policy is economically necessary, say the bill's supporters. An
immigrant with AIDS "tugs at the heart-strings, but we have a reality that
deals with the purse-strings," said Rep. Dan Frisa, R-New York. "Where do  you
draw the line? Because one needs to be drawn so we don't overwhelm the  system."

Frisa's argument lacks common sense and a depth of human feeling. Nothing  can
be gained by allowing a legal resident of this country to go untreated for
AIDS. It is morally wrong and self-destructive as a medical practice, because
treatment and counseling programs are vital to stopping the spread of AIDS.

A lot of talk is heard this election year about the importance of families.  But
another provision in the immigration bill would make it more difficult for
immigrant families to be reunited.

The bill raises the minimum income that U.S. residents must earn before  they
can sponsor a family member for immigration. According to New York Times
columnist Anthony Lewis, if the proposed earnings standard had been in place  in
1994, 44 percent of families bringing in a parent or grown child and 36  percent
reuniting with a minor child or spouse would have failed to meet the  standard.

Immigrants seeking asylum from persecution would have only one week to make
their case before they are shipped back to the country they are fleeing. Lewis
uses the example of Fauziya Kassindja, a woman who left her native Togo to
escape genital mutilation. It took Kassindja a year to make her case for
asylum.

The Senate has to pass the bill before it can be sent to President Clinton  for
his signature. Some Senate Democrats have objected to parts of the bill,
including the denial of AIDS medical care.

Earlier, Clinton forced Republicans to remove a portion of the bill that  would
have denied public schooling for the children of illegal immigrants. He
threatened a veto. Now, the president won't say what he'll do with the revised
bill. If it reaches his desk in its current form, Clinton should veto it. Then
the immigration debate can go forward in a less emotionally charged atmosphere
than an election year.

LOAD-DATE: September 30, 1996

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: EDITORIAL

                    Copyright 1996 Times Publishing Company


                              15 of 280 DOCUMENTS

                         St. Petersburg Times (Florida)

              September 29, 1996, Sunday, 0 South Pinellas Edition

Spending deal goes to Senate

SOURCE: Compiled from Wire Reports

SECTION: NATIONAL; Pg. 1A

LENGTH: 753 words

DATELINE: WASHINGTON



Congress and the White House reached agreement Saturday on a sweeping deal to
keep the government operating after the fiscal year ends next week and to  clear
the way for broad immigration reform.

The deal, reached about 7 a.m. Saturday and approved by the House after 10
p.m., also resolved a number of other issues, including a measure to prevent
people convicted of domestic violence from owning guns. The week-long marathon
negotiations were conducted not only under the approaching budget deadline,  but
against a backdrop of congressional anxiety to end the session and hit the
campaign trail.

The toughest talks, however, concerned the immigration bill, whose main  goal is
a reduction in the influx of illegal aliens. It beefs up the border  patrol,
gives states more money to arrest and detain illegals, and denies the  full
range of health and welfare benefits to unregistered aliens. Efforts to
withdraw public assistance from legal immigrants was thwarted by the White
House, along with a bid to deny public school enrollment for the children of
future illegals.

The heart of the omnibus bill, which both sides promised to pass quickly,  is a
so-called continuing resolution providing money for federal agencies.  Only
seven of the 13 appropriations bills needed to keep the government  running
after the fiscal year ends Monday have been passed.

The $ 600-billion catchall spending bill provides funding through the new
fiscal year for the departments of Defense, Health and Human Services,
Education, Commerce, Labor, Justice, State, Interior and Treasury.

Both sides had agreed early this year to avoid a repeat of last year's  budget
showdown, which led to two government shutdowns. But hard bargaining  continued
for months over which programs would get what within the agreed-upon  framework.

Pending any last-minute hitches in the Senate, where Democratic leaders  said
Saturday they might offer some amendments, the accord clears the way for
Congress to adjourn Monday and go home for the election campaign.

The House's vote on the bill sent it to the Senate, where leaders plan to  vote
Monday night.

Republicans and Democrats alike praised the agreement, which was worked out  by
Rep. Dick Armey of Texas, the House majority leader, and the two chairmen  of
the appropriations committees, Sen. Mark Hatfield of Oregon and Rep. Robert
Livingston of Louisiana, representing the Republicans, and Leon Panetta, the
White House chief of staff, leading the Democratic side in the three nights of
marathon talks.

House Speaker Newt Gingrich Saturday morning called it a "historic  occasion"
and cited Republicans' success in cutting $ 53-billion in spending  over two
years while protecting military spending and health research.

Armey said the bill meant the 104th Congress was ending "ahead of schedule  and
under budget."

Lawrence Haas of the Office of Management and Budget said congressional
Republicans had agreed to provide about $ 6.5-billion in additional resources
that Clinton had requested for education, training, environmental protection
and fighting terrorism.

"The president is obviously pleased both with the nature of the agreement  in
restoring these funds that he thinks are crucial for the future of the  country
but also with the fact that we were able to work this out in a  cooperative
bipartisan fashion," Haas said.

Ethics committee votes

on Gingrich, Gephardt

   WASHINGTON - The House Ethics Committee on Saturday agreed to keep alive a
complaint that Speaker Newt Gingrich broke federal gift and campaign finance
laws, while dismissing - with criticism - allegations of financial
irregularities by Democratic leader Dick Gephardt.

There was one piece of favorable news for Gingrich: The committee dismissed
allegations that he improperly intervened with federal agencies on behalf of
financial supporters.

The committee action was a compromise between Democrats, who sought  dismissal
of the action against Gephardt, and Republicans, who favored  discharge of the
complaint against Gingrich. The panel has five members from  each party.

The committee scolded Gephardt for waiting until last Friday to amend his
financial disclosure statements for 1991 and 1992, to include a loan and  rental
income from a vacation home in North Carolina.

- Information from the New York Times, Knight Ridder and the Associated Press
was used in this report.

LOAD-DATE: October 1, 1996

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                    Copyright 1996 Times Publishing Company


                              16 of 280 DOCUMENTS

                         St. Petersburg Times (Florida)

              December 24, 1996, Tuesday, 0 South Pinellas Edition

In new policy, Cuban refugees to be sent home

SOURCE: Compiled from Times Wires

SECTION: NATIONAL; IN BRIEF; Pg. 2A

LENGTH: 236 words

DATELINE: MIAMI; SINGAPORE; MOSCOW; ATHENS



In a move that marks the end of a policy of virtual automatic asylum, Cuban
refugees who reach the United States illegally will be sent home from now on,
U.S. immigration officials said Monday.

Lemar Wooley, a spokesman for the Immigration and Naturalization Service,  said
the new instructions went into effect immediately, retroactive from Dec.  6.

"Cuban migrants who illegally entered the United States after Dec. 6,  1996, are
being treated as illegal entrants and are being placed into  proceedings as are
all illegal entrants from other countries," the INS said.

"This is this closing of the "underground railway,' " said Miami  Republican
Rep. Lincoln Diaz-Balart. "It will be seen by history as an  infamous step."

Elsewhere . . .

   SINGAPORE - Singapore's election isn't until Jan. 2, but the governing
People's Action Party has already won. Candidate nominations closed Monday  with
opposition parties challenging only 36 of the 83 Parliament seats up for  grabs,
giving the PAP a guaranteed majority.

MOSCOW - Tajikistan's president and the top opposition leader signed a
cease-fire Monday, hailing it as a breakthrough in efforts to end a four-year
civil war in the Central Asian country.

ATHENS - Farmers dismantled the last of their road and rail blockades  Monday
after a nearly monthlong protest that dealt a $ 1.6-billion blow to the
economy.

LOAD-DATE: December 26, 1996

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: DIGEST

                    Copyright 1996 Times Publishing Company


                              17 of 280 DOCUMENTS

                         St. Petersburg Times (Florida)

            January 16, 1997, Thursday, 4 State / Suncoast Edition
                              Correction Appended

Border Patrol detains 110 migrant workers

BYLINE: BONNIE LAMP FOWLER

SECTION: METRO & STATE; Pg. 3B

LENGTH: 430 words

DATELINE: RUSKIN



Federal agents rounded up 110 illegal aliens in south Hillsborough County  this
week, sending most of them by bus and plane to a Texas border town for
voluntary deportation to Mexico.

The crackdown sent 12 immigration agents from across Florida into the  Ruskin
and Wimauma areas for daytime sweeps on Monday and evening searches on  Tuesday,
said Steve McDonald, the U.S. Border Patrol agent in charge. It was  the most
extensive operation in the area since McDonald came to the Border  Patrol's
Tampa station from Arizona in October, he said.

Florida Highway Patrol troopers assisted the agents and pulled over  vehicles on
U.S. 41, State Road 674 and U.S. 301 "based on reasonable  suspicion that
immigration laws were being violated," McDonald said. Border  Patrol agents
questioned occupants and examined their identification.

Non-U.S. citizens legally residing in the United States are required to  carry
immigration documentation at all times. Those without documentation  during this
week's roundup were interviewed by agents, checked against  computer files and
taken by chartered bus to a U.S. Immigration and  Naturalization Service center
in Bradenton.

Of 110 originally detained, 63 people on Monday and 30 on Tuesday, all men,
were arrested and sent Wednesday to Brownsville, Texas.

"They were given the opportunity for a hearing before an immigration  judge, but
all of these people requested to return to Mexico voluntarily,"  McDonald said.

Others with families were allowed to remain temporarily in Hillsborough  County
with the promise they would leave for Mexico within 30 days.  Immigration agents
have their addresses to check on their status, McDonald  said.

The two days of high-profile activity, with agents questioning car  passengers,
pedestrians and people in parking lots, heightened fears in the  south county
Latino community, even among legal workers, some said.

Wimauma migrant outreach worker Ninfa Martinez said her own legally  documented
clients reported few workers in the fields and sparse attendance at  area jobs
and day care centers once the migrant operation began.

McDonald said agents did not go into fields to question farm workers but  may
have pursued into the fields some suspects who fled from their vehicles  during
interviews.

He said the operation was prompted in part by inquiries and complaints  about
migrants working here illegally. Area residents called the Border Patrol  or
would "walk up to our units and ask us when are we going to do  something,"
McDonald said.

LOAD-DATE: January 17, 1997

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DISTRIBUTION: METRO & STATE; CITY & STATE; TAMPA & STATE

CORRECTION-DATE: January 17, 1997

CORRECTION:
 The Florida Highway Patrol assisted the Border Patrol during a recent
enforcement effort against illegal immigrants by stopping motorists who had
violated traffic laws. A story in Thursday's Times incorrectly described the
Highway Patrol's role.

                    Copyright 1997 Times Publishing Company


                              18 of 280 DOCUMENTS

                         St. Petersburg Times (Florida)

                             July 18, 1997, Friday

26 immigrants arrested during Clearwater raid

BYLINE: JANET MARSHALL

SECTION: SEMINOLE TIMES; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 457 words

DATELINE: CLEARWATER



Twenty-six immigrants, suspected by federal officials of being in the country
illegally, were arrested at a Clearwater manufacturing company Thursday  morning
during a raid the business helped plan.

The unsuspecting employees were working on assembly lines at Instrument
Transformers Inc., 1907 Calumet St., when 15 federal agents arrived at 8:30
a.m. and began handcuffing them.

The 18 men and eight women taken into custody had used fake documents to  get
jobs, said Jeffrey Wolder, a special agent with the U.S. Immigration and
Naturalization Service.

"We coordinated with the company so we knew what shift they were working  and in
which building," Wolder said. "They told us where we could find  everyone."

Two of the immigrants are from Venezuela and one is from Peru. The rest are
from Mexico.

About half will be flown back to Mexico today, Wolder said. The rest want
hearings to contest their arrests before immigration judges.

It was the third time in the past 11 months that INS agents raided a  Clearwater
business and arrested more than 20 workers.

Twice last year, immigration officials arrested employees at Clearwater  Linen &
Uniform Supply. In September, 23 Mexican workers were taken into  custody. In
November, another 28 employees were arrested.

No charges will be filed against Instrument Transformers Inc. because  company
officials made a "good faith" effort to determine that its employees  were legal
immigrants, Wolder said.

"We have asked them what we can do to prevent this in the future," said  Joanne
Basaraba, a company manager. "Because if they bring us a Florida  identification
and a Social Security card, they (the IDs) look just like yours  and mine. To
see them, you would say they're just fine."

Basaraba said she did not have personal details Thursday about the arrested
employees, whether they have families locally or where they live.

Basaraba said she thinks the arrests are the result of random checks of
Clearwater companies by the INS. But Wolder said the agency began  investigating
Instrument Transformers Inc. after receiving a tip that the  company employed
illegal immigrants.

About a month ago, agents asked to see I-9 forms that employees are  required to
fill out when applying.

"We did records checks and found there were these 26 that had used  counterfeit
documents to get jobs there," Wolder said.

Basaraba said company officials were surprised to hear they had been fooled  by
phony documents. The company, which makes transformers, has been around  since
1975 and never experienced anything like this, she said.

"We certainly had no idea this was going on," Basaraba said, adding that  the
company now has 26 openings.

LOAD-DATE: July 18, 1997

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DISTRIBUTION: SEMINOLE TIMES; LARGO TIMES; CLEARWATER TIMES; NORTH PINELLAS
TIMES

                    Copyright 1997 Times Publishing Company


                              19 of 280 DOCUMENTS

                         St. Petersburg Times (Florida)

                           August 13, 1997, Wednesday

Police, INS tactics must be tempered

SECTION: SEMINOLE TIMES; EDITORIAL; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 511 words



Clearwater is an increasingly popular destination for illegal immigrants from
Mexico. The U.S. Immigration and Naturalization Service shows up regularly to
arrest Mexicans at work or even as they are out for a walk.

The flood of illegal immigrants from Latin America has long been a problem  in
California, Texas and Miami. It is a new experience for Pinellas County,  and
one that raises questions about fairness in the enforcement of immigration
laws.

In recent months, the INS has arrested 80 immigrants as they worked at
Clearwater businesses. Those jobs are often low-paying and involve tedious
labor that American citizens don't want to do. INS officers have arrested 51
employees at Clearwater Linen & Uniform Supply and 26 immigrants who worked on
the assembly lines at Instrument Transformers.

Clearwater doesn't want to become a magnet for illegal immigrants, and the  INS
is charged with enforcing immigration laws. But some tactics are  troubling.
Clearwater police officers, who aid the INS in its sweeps, will  stop people on
the street because they have Hispanic features or look  suspicious.

"You would think we were in Nazi Germany," said the Rev. Peter Schweitzer  of
St. Cecelia Catholic Church. That is an exaggeration, although Schweitzer  has a
point. Such police behavior may be legal but it should be monitored  closely by
city officials.

Many Clearwater residents with Hispanic features are U.S. citizens or legal
residents. We already have seen in this country the harm that can be done when
police single out one race or nationality of people for special scrutiny.

The INS and law enforcement officials should give at least as much  attention to
another aspect of illegal immigration. Criminals are making  counterfeit
citizenship documents and selling them to illegal immigrants for  hundreds of
dollars apiece. Fake Alien Registration Receipt Cards (known as  green cards)
can be purchased by illegal immigrants and used to get a job.

These counterfeiters are said to be legal residents or even U.S. citizens  who
travel the country getting rich on the fake document trade. In this case,  the
citizen who makes a living selling falsified documents is more of a drain  on
society than the illegal immigrant who works for a living.

Schweitzer and others who come into contact with illegal immigrants in
Clearwater describe most of them as hard-working and law-abiding. "They want  a
better life for their children and will do whatever it takes," Schweitzer  said.

Clearwater police Chief Sid Klein said his officers must enforce the law.
"We're doing our job, no matter how distasteful it might be," he said. "We  do
it professionally and with compassion."

Illegal immigration has had an adverse impact on many parts of the United
States, and Klein is right, the law must be enforced. But when the face of
illegal immigration is that of a family that is willing to work hard for a
better life, it is difficult to approve of the tactics used by police and the
INS.

LOAD-DATE: August 13, 1997

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DISTRIBUTION: SEMINOLE TIMES; LARGO TIMES; CLEARWATER TIMES; NORTH PINELLAS
TIMES

TYPE: EDITORIAL

                    Copyright 1997 Times Publishing Company


                              20 of 280 DOCUMENTS

                         St. Petersburg Times (Florida)

                          September 30, 1997, Tuesday

Families feel tossed by shifting immigration law

BYLINE: AMY ELLIS

SECTION: PASCO TIMES; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 587 words

DATELINE: DADE CITY



Held fast in his mother's arms, Miguel scans the room with large brown eyes,
his chubby legs pumping furiously.

At 7 months, Miguel is healthy and happy. But his mother, Karla, is  worried.

Miguel is an American citizen. His 20-year-old mother, who came to the  United
States from Mexico a year ago, is an illegal immigrant.

Because of looming changes in immigration law, Karla may have to return to
Mexico alone, leaving behind her only child and her husband, Martin, who is a
legal resident.

"I don't want to leave my son, but he is a citizen," said Karla, who  didn't
want her last name published but allowed her photograph to be taken.  "I want
him to stay here, to go to school in the United States."

Thousands of families around the nation are facing a similar plight as  Congress
debates a provision in immigration law that enables illegal aliens to  remain in
the United States while waiting for their green cards.

That provision - which allows illegal residents to pay a $ 1,000 fine and  apply
for residency here rather than returning to their home country - was set  to
expire today.

Although Congress is expected to extend the provision by three weeks,  advocates
for migrant farm workers in the Tampa area hope the measure will be  extended
indefinitely.

"Even if it's three weeks, it's not enough," said Areceli Corona, an
immigration specialist who works with migrant farm workers seeking residency  in
Dade City. "Many of these people have been waiting for a visa since 1992.  It
took me eight years."

Immigration officials estimate there are 5-million illegal immigrants in  the
United States, about half of them Mexican. In Pasco County, 200 to 300  families
of migrant farm workers could be affected by the expiring rule,  officials say.

The deadline has prompted hundreds of phone calls to immigration advocates  and
the Tampa office of the U.S. Immigration and Naturalization Service.

Panicked and confused by the changes, families fear being split up in order  to
comply with the law or, worse, being deported and having to wait years to  apply
again for residency, said Margarita Romo, director of Farmworkers  Self-Help
Inc., an advocacy and social service group in Dade City.

"There's a river of suffering happening to these migrant families, and  why?"
she asked. "I don't see why. These are people who have bought houses,  who pay
taxes and have tried to become residents of this community."

What's worse, Romo said, are the unscrupulous groups who have lined up to  take
advantage of the plight of immigrant families.

Businesses purporting to help families with their immigration paperwork are
charging several hundred dollars for the work, Romo said. Families struggling
to scrape together the $ 1,000 fee are being targeted by loan sharks who want
as much as $ 500 interest, she said.

Karla, who does not speak English, said she has no way to come up with  $ 1,000.
Her husband, Martin, works in the fields, spraying pesticides, and  makes just
enough to feed her and their son.

Although immigration officials have said they will not be rounding up  illegal
immigrants for mass deportations, Romo is cautioning her clients not  to rest on
that assumption.

"A lot of people are saying, "Oh, I've been here so long, they won't send  me
away,' " she said. "If they say they are going to throw you out, then  they're
going to throw you out. It doesn't matter if you have a home. It  doesn't matter
if you have a family."

LOAD-DATE: October 1, 1997

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DISTRIBUTION: PASCO TIMES

GRAPHIC: COLOR PHOTO, JOHN PENDYGRAFT; Karla holds her son, Miguel.

                    Copyright 1997 Times Publishing Company


                              21 of 280 DOCUMENTS

                         St. Petersburg Times (Florida)

                           October 1, 1997, Wednesday

Immigrants worry as laws change

BYLINE: AMY ELLIS

SECTION: HERNANDO TIMES; Pg. 11

LENGTH: 586 words

DATELINE: DADE CITY



Held fast in his mother's arms, Miguel scans the room with large brown eyes,
his chubby legs pumping furiously.

At 7 months, Miguel is healthy and happy. But his mother, Karla, is  worried.

Miguel is an American citizen. His 20-year-old mother, who came to the  United
States from Mexico a year ago, is an illegal immigrant.

Because of looming changes in immigration law, Karla may have to return to
Mexico alone, leaving behind her only child and her husband, Martin, who is a
legal resident.

"I don't want to leave my son, but he is a citizen," said Karla, who  didn't
want her last name published but allowed her photograph to be taken.  "I want
him to stay here, to go to school in the United States."

Thousands of families around the nation are facing a similar plight as  Congress
debates a provision in immigration law that enables illegal aliens to  remain in
the United States while waiting for their green cards.

That provision - which allows illegal residents to pay a $ 1,000 fine and  apply
for residency here rather than returning to their home country - expired
Tuesday.

Although Congress is expected to extend the provision by three weeks,  advocates
for migrant farm workers in the Tampa area hope the measure will be  extended
indefinitely.

"Even if it's three weeks, it's not enough," said Areceli Corona, an
immigration specialist who works with migrant farm workers seeking residency  in
Dade City. "Many of these people have been waiting for a visa since 1992.  It
took me eight years."

Immigration officials estimate there are 5-million illegal immigrants in  the
United States, about half of them Mexican. In Pasco County, 200 to 300  families
of migrant farm workers could be affected by the expiring rule,  officials say.

The deadline has prompted hundreds of phone calls to immigration advocates  and
the Tampa office of the U.S. Immigration and Naturalization Service.

Panicked and confused by the changes, families fear being split up in order  to
comply with the law or, worse, being deported and having to wait years to  apply
again for residency, said Margarita Romo, director of Farmworkers  Self-Help
Inc., an advocacy and social service group in Dade City.

"There's a river of suffering happening to these migrant families, and  why?"
she asked. "I don't see why. These are people who have bought houses,  who pay
taxes and have tried to become residents of this community."

What's worse, Romo said, are the unscrupulous groups who have lined up to  take
advantage of the plight of immigrant families.

Businesses purporting to help families with their immigration paperwork are
charging several hundred dollars for the work, Romo said.

Families struggling to scrape together the $ 1,000 fee are being targeted by
loan sharks who want as much as $ 500 interest, she said.

Karla, who does not speak English, said she has no way to come up with  $ 1,000.

Her husband, Martin, works in the fields, spraying pesticides, and makes  just
enough to feed her and their son.

Although immigration officials have said they will not be rounding up  illegal
immigrants for mass deportations, Romo is cautioning her clients not  to rest on
that assumption.

"A lot of people are saying, "Oh, I've been here so long, they won't send  me
away,' " she said. "If they say they are going to throw you out, then  they're
going to throw you out. It doesn't matter if you have a home. It  doesn't matter
if you have a family."

LOAD-DATE: October 2, 1997

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DISTRIBUTION: HERNANDO TIMES

GRAPHIC: BLACK AND WHITE PHOTO, JOHN PENDYGRAFT; Karla and her son, Miguel

                    Copyright 1997 Times Publishing Company


                              22 of 280 DOCUMENTS

                         St. Petersburg Times (Florida)

                           February 21, 2000, Monday

Officials should focus on law-abiding citizens

SECTION: LARGO TIMES; LETTERS; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 1084 words



Re: Tired of being victims, illegal immigrants speak up, story, Feb. 13.

I am astounded by those who pander to "victimized" illegal aliens but condone
the continuing victimization of legal immigrants and all honest U.S. citizens.

Understand that "illegal aliens" means persons who knowingly violated the laws
of the United States. But remember, if a citizen or legal immigrant violates
U.S. law, he will be charged, convicted and fined or imprisoned. Why do we
reward foreigners but punish citizens for breaking the law?

I ask Alex Emmanuelli, Father Peter Schweitzer and Clearwater police Chief Sid
Klein the same question: Why should I obey the law if David Mendoza and his
fellow illegal immigrants don't?

So, Mendoza works and saves money to send home. How does he pay his Social
Security tax? Does his employer pay unemployment tax on his behalf? Did he sneak
across the border himself, or with help from the growing number of
people-smugglers? Now that he has fessed up, can he bring in his entire family?

I suppose, however, that Luis Cruz (charged with defrauding the illegal
immigrants) will be prosecuted to the fullest extent of the law because, as a
Puerto Rican, he is in the United States legally.

It is distressing to learn about those agencies and churches and police
officials who are more interested in assisting law-breakers than protecting the
legal interests of law-abiding citizens. If Chief Klein performed his sworn duty
to uphold the law equally, he could either report known illegals to the
Immigration and Naturalization Service or he could, for instance, stop issuing
traffic tickets to legal citizens. If the "humane agencies" and the churches
cared more about legal indigents, we would have fewer homeless persons and
welfare recipients.

This nation has the worst illegal immigrant problem in the entire world, and
officials do nothing but encourage even more law-breakers. Politicians
rationalize their actions of "buying the Hispanic vote" as keeping themselves in
office so they can do good things for the taxpayer. This whole sordid mess is an
insult to every decent, law-abiding citizen and legal immigrant in the United
States of America.

R.J. Radford, Clearwater

Revealing address seems unnecessary after tragedy

EDITOR'S NOTE: The Times publishes personal information about accident victims
to accurately identify the person and to help readers make an emotional
connection with the victim and the circumstances. In this story, most of the
personal information about the victim was provided by the family on the
newspaper obituary form.

Re: Investigators seek cause of plane crash, story, Feb. 11.

Recently two of your reporters, Tamara Lush and Eileen Schulte, wrote an article
detailing the events surrounding a recent plane crash in Pasco County that left
in its aftermath a grieving widow and her two young children. I'm angry that
they (and their editor) felt it necessary to print the address of the deceased
and even the names of his children.

It is tragic enough for the widow to have experienced this event. What public
interest was served by revealing the details of her address and children's names
except to leave her vulnerable to the more unscrupulous individuals of our
society who prey on their victims by using such detailed information to their
advantage?

By the way, editor, how about giving me the addresses of your reporters. I'm
sure my neighbors would love to say a few things to them via your newspaper. Of
course, it would be in the public's interest.

Elyse Fredricks, Palm Harbor

Judging disabilities based on looks is not smart

Re: With weak laws, anyone can get a handicapped parking permit, letter, Feb.
14.

How dare the letter writer be such a hypocrite and sit in judgment of people
only he deems handicapped based on knowing nothing about them?

I am one of those people who doesn't look disabled. I am neither in a wheelchair
nor on crutches, nor do I have a quad cane (whatever that is). But I do have a
four-wheel walker for support, rest and to carry some things. It didn't come
from the drugstore but from the Department of Veterans Affairs . Not everyone
can afford high-cost canes to suit his fancy.

Outside, I use my cart most everywhere. The exception is the grocery store. To
get in there, I must rely on my volunteer's arm. Once inside I ride the store's
electric cart. I cannot walk the entire store nor lift certain food items. My
disability is called "weak left side" and it is permanent.

There are two sayings: One is "Do unto others as you would have them do unto
you"; the second is "What goes around comes around." I'll be waiting to change
those weak handicapped laws when the writer becomes disabled.

Grace H. Goodman, Clearwater

State and county need to find solution for U.S. 19

How can Florida and Pinellas County be so disorganized in their highway
departments? How can they have no idea what to do with U.S. 19? It needs to be a
freeway with overpasses. If not, it still needs overpasses with service roads.
Go to Minnesota to see what they do with four-lane highways.

It is obvious they need someone to propose a solution and design it for the
future traffic. It is a disaster!

Lyle G. Owen, Dunedin

Commissioner gives thanks to voters for re-election

I would like to take this opportunity to thank all of the residents of the city
of Dunedin who took the time from their busy schedules to vote Feb. 8. We in
Dunedin have the opportunity to live in a wonderful community, and only through
our combined efforts will we continue to see our city progress to even greater
achievements.

Lianne and I are extremely proud that the people of Dunedin saw fit to allow us
to serve our community for another three years. I will continue to work hard in
the upcoming years to ensure that Dunedin remains a city we can all be proud of.

I am sincerely grateful for the vote of confidence I have received from the
residents of Dunedin. Thank you so very much for your support. Working together,
we will see our city become even more "delightful."

John A. Doglione

city commissioner, Dunedin

Paint choice seems morbid for new funeral home

My comment is about the new Anderson-McQueen Funeral Home building located on
the corner of Seminole Boulevard and Eighth Avenue. I just wonder who picked
such a morbid color for the bottom part.

Being a funeral home, maybe the color seems fitting, but I think a paler color
would have been more attractive.

Mrs. Elmer Russell, Largo


LOAD-DATE: March 6, 2000

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DISTRIBUTION: LARGO TIMES; SEMINOLE TIMES; CLEARWATER TIMES; NORTH PINELLAS
TIMES

TYPE: LETTER

                    Copyright 2000 Times Publishing Company


                              23 of 280 DOCUMENTS

                         St. Petersburg Times (Florida)

                July 18, 2000, Tuesday, 0 South Pinellas Edition

Judge: Bahraini princess must face charges

SOURCE: Compiled from Times Wires

SECTION: NATIONAL; Pg. 6A

LENGTH: 653 words

DATELINE: SAN DIEGO



A Bahraini princess who used forged documents to flee her country and marry a
U.S. Marine must face charges of illegally entering the United States, a judge
said Monday.

Immigration Judge Ignacio Fernandez refused to dismiss the charges, a ruling
that prevents the princess, 19-year-old Meriam Al Khalifa, from applying for
permanent residency in the United States without seeking political asylum.

Al Khalifa plans to apply for asylum on the grounds that she faces extreme
persecution for marrying a non-Muslim if she returns to her country, said her
attorney, Jan Joseph Bejar.

"I can guarantee you it is not just "Daddy is mad at me,' " Bejar said.

Al Khalifa has up to a year under U.S. law to apply for political asylum. A
spokesman for the Bahraini Embassy in Washington says that her family is eager
for her to return and that she would not face persecution.

Memorial site debated

The plan to build a World War II memorial on the National Mall in Washington
took an unexpected turn as opponents revealed previously unreleased National
Park Service studies showing that the proposed site is part of the grounds of
the Lincoln Memorial.

Final design review for the $ 100-million tribute to veterans of the war is
scheduled for Thursday, when the U.S. Commission of Fine Arts will hold a public
hearing.

The project has been under consideration since 1995. At each stage of the
review, opponents have objected to the new memorial on aesthetic grounds and
objected to its placement, which they believe destroys the design and impact of
the original relationship between the Lincoln and Washington monuments.

A study commissioned in 1996 says the Reflecting Pool and Rainbow Pool, "are
integral components of the designed historic landscape of the Lincoln Memorial."

 A second study bolsters that assessment, citing the Rainbow Pool as an element
in the 1981 decision to place the memorial in the Register of National Historic
Places.

Elsewhere . . .

FIVE DROWN IN TEXAS LAKE: Three young cousins wading in a lake in Somerville,
Texas, stepped over the edge of a drop-off into deep water, and they and two
adults who went to rescue them all drowned. The father of two of the children
dived in to try to save them, along with his brother-in-law.

OFFICE RESCUE: A firefighter in Southfield, Mich., rappeled off the side of an
office building to rescue a worker left dangling when one side of a scaffolding
fell. Two men were on the scaffolding at the Travelers Building when it
partially collapsed. Firefighters used the ladder truck to rescue one who was
hanging onto a rope about four stories above the ground.

MALCOLM X DIARY: A court clerk pleaded guilty in New York to stealing the
bloody, bullet-riddled appointment diary of Malcolm X. Douglas Henderson, 42,
pleaded guilty to larceny three days into his trial, admitting he took the date
book from a courthouse evidence safe in 1991 and sold it. He could get up to
seven years in prison at sentencing Sept. 5. The red date book had been in the
left breast pocket of Malcolm X's suit when he was shot in 1965. Three bullets
passed through the diary and entered Malcolm X's chest.

AAA SUED: The parents of a woman who was raped and murdered after her car broke
down sued AAA in Boston, accusing the auto club of leaving her stranded after
she called for help. The lawsuit charges that a AAA tow truck driver left
Melissa Gosule, 27, in a parking lot last July, saying he was too busy to help.
Gosule was later raped and stabbed by Michael Gentile. Gentile was convicted of
murder in May.

MAN KILLED BY BEAR: A bear killed and partially ate a man at a campground
several miles from a bear viewing area in Hyder, Alaska. The body of George
Tullos, 41, of Ketchikan was found Saturday at the Run Amuck campground near
Hyder, a community along the Canadian border about 75 miles from Ketchikan. The
attack apparently happened late Friday.


LOAD-DATE: July 18, 2000

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: DIGEST

                    Copyright 2000 Times Publishing Company


                              24 of 280 DOCUMENTS

                         St. Petersburg Times (Florida)

                July 21, 1998, Tuesday, 0 South Pinellas Edition

Heat makes illegal crossing of border a gamble with death

SOURCE: Compiled from Times Wires

SECTION: NATIONAL; Pg. 3A

LENGTH: 409 words

DATELINE: FALFURRIAS, Texas



They trek across the Texas border lands at night and seek shade during day's
ferocious sun and searing heat.

For many illegal immigrants, crossing into Texas from Mexico on foot has  become
perilous during this summer's heat wave.

Forty-three of them are among at least 117 people who have died from
heat-related causes in Texas and across the country.

The heat became a personal issue for President Clinton as he visited New
Orleans, where the high was in the 90s. Like Vice President Al Gore last week,
he said the heat wave proves theories about global warming.

For illegal immigrants, finding water is the toughest part of the journey,
considered a rugged undertaking through desolate territory even in the best of
conditions.

"Twice, we almost died of thirst. We were suffocating. We would arrive at  a
water well and everything was dry," said Hector Manzano, 30, who was  arrested
with two friends Monday after wandering through brushland for nine  days.

"If I had known it was going to be so dangerous, I wouldn't have come,"  Manzano
said. "I just thank God that my brother didn't come with me."

U.S. Border Patrol agents are now chasing immigrants to save their lives.  They
are carrying extra water, ice packs and first aid kits, and authorities  have
launched a publicity campaign warning would-be immigrants to stay home.

The heat did not let up Monday. In Dallas, the temperature hit 100 degrees  for
a 15th straight day. Much of the country was in the grip of searing heat,  but
the worst weather stretched in a relatively narrow band from South Dakota  south
into Nebraska, Kansas, Oklahoma and Texas.

In addition to Texas' 81 deaths, including the 43 illegal immigrants, the
weather has contributed to at least 22 deaths in Louisiana, 11 in Oklahoma and
one each in California, Arizona and Missouri.

In New Orleans, Clinton told the American Federation of Teachers:

"As you can see from this sweltering heat . . . the vice president is  right:
The climate of our country and our globe is changing. The globe is  warming."

Clinton counted global warming as one of the major challenges facing the  United
States in the 21st century.

Scientists have said that the Earth's temperature has become warmer in  recent
years, but that it is difficult to link individual weather fluctuations  to the
phenomenon.  - Information from Reuters and the Associated Press was used in
this report.

LOAD-DATE: July 22, 1998

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: BLACK AND WHITE PHOTO, Associated Press; Mexican nationals Franciso
Mendarez and Remetin Flores wait Monday to be picked up by the Border Patrol
north of Laredo, Texas.

                    Copyright 1998 Times Publishing Company


                              25 of 280 DOCUMENTS

                         St. Petersburg Times (Florida)

                July 24, 1998, Friday, 0 South Pinellas Edition

Several states cool off; South still sweltering

SOURCE: Compiled from Times Wires

SECTION: NATIONAL; Pg. 7A

LENGTH: 417 words



A lethal heat wave retreated Thursday from most areas of the United States,  but
tightened its grip on the South, where it has killed about 130 sick or  elderly
people and illegal immigrants.

Moving to ease the suffering, President Clinton ordered the release of  $
100-million in emergency federal funds to 11 Western and Southern states,
including Florida, to help pay for air conditioners, electric fans and utility
bills.

Clinton also said farmers across Texas would be eligible for disaster
assistance, giving them access to low-interest loans to cushion the blow of a
long drought that already has brought them losses of $ 1.5-billion. The weather

 also is blamed for more than 6,600 fires in Texas, prompting the state Forest
Service to begin training prisoners as firefighters.

A cold front brought relief from the heat across the Midwest and the  Northeast,
but temperatures jumped above 100 degrees for the 18th straight day  in north
Texas.

Health officials in Fort Worth reported a new heat-related death near  there,
and Oklahoma authorities said two women, aged 79 and 83, also died from
hyperthermia.

The heat has killed as many as 90 people in Texas since June 1. They  include 23
people, mostly elderly, in Dallas who died alone inside their  sweltering homes,
and 49 illegal immigrants who perished in desert and vast  scrubland areas as
they trekked across the border from Mexico.

In San Antonio, where the afternoon temperature was 104 degrees Thursday,  13
Mexican immigrants were rescued from a sealed truck container on a railroad
car.

Twenty-four heat-related deaths have been reported in Louisiana, 15 in  Oklahoma
and three others in the Southwest.

A long drought since spring had devastated crops, and the heat wave over  the
past month made it worse. Ranchers say they have been forced to take their
cattle to market rather than pay through the nose for expensive feed, which is
in short supply. Chicken farmers have been hit hard, too.

Kathy McGuire, who runs a family chicken farm with her husband, Ron, in  the
Oklahoma town of Stigler, said they lost 40,000 full-grown chickens in one  day
this week after a transformer blew, cutting their electrical supply.

Meteorologists said there was a slight chance of rain in north Texas over  the
weekend but, otherwise, the run of triple-digit temperatures would  continue
into next week.

- Information from Reuters and the Associated Press was used in this report.

LOAD-DATE: July 24, 1998

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                    Copyright 1998 Times Publishing Company


                              26 of 280 DOCUMENTS

                         St. Petersburg Times (Florida)

               August 25, 1998, Tuesday, 0 South Pinellas Edition

INS takes on illegals by mass firings

BYLINE: ANITA KUMAR

SECTION: NATIONAL; Pg. 1A

LENGTH: 1519 words



Tim Coultas expected the worst when two plainclothes federal agents came by  the
Adam's Mark Caribbean Gulf Resort in June to inspect employment records.

But Coultas, the general manager, had no idea how bad it would be.

The Immigration and Naturalization Service demanded the Clearwater Beach  hotel
fire 54 Hispanic employees for working in the country illegally.

It took two days and the help of a Spanish-speaking employee, but the  207-bed
hotel sacked a third of its staff, mostly housekeepers and laundry  washers.

"It was a shock," Coultas said. "We knew they (INS agents) had been to  other
hotels but we weren't expecting those kind of numbers. That's such a
significant amount of staff. It made for a long summer, that's for sure."

More than ever before, INS is cracking down on Tampa Bay area businesses  that
hire illegal immigrants by forcing them to fire slews of workers at a  time.

Agents visit businesses to determine if employees used phony documents to  get
hired. Days later, they return with a list of workers to fire.

INS still raids businesses, arresting and deporting people. But in recent
months it has used the added strategy of demanding mass firings as a less
expensive way of targeting the area's mounting illegal immigrant population.

Deportation can take months, create a backlog in the courts and cost about  $ 50
a day to house arrested immigrants at detention facilities. And,  authorities
say, some deported people manage to sneak back to Florida a week  or two later.

"If we arrest them and put them all in proceedings, that's a lot of  money,"
said Jeff Wolder, supervisory agent of the investigative branch of  the regional
INS office in Tampa. "We just can't do it all."

But the INS strategy has its critics. They question leaving fired workers  free
to search for other jobs, using the same fake employment papers, which  usually
aren't confiscated because the workers don't carry them every day.

"These are generally good, hard-working people who wind up without jobs on  the
street," Clearwater police Chief Sid Klein said. "It's a repetitive  cycle with
no solution."

Just two weeks after INS visited the Adam's Mark, Coultas saw one of his  fired
employees working at a nearby restaurant.

"They're just pushing (immigrants) from one business to another," said  Ralph
Emmanuelli, a Hispanic activist who lives in Palm Harbor. "They're just  pushing
them from one area to another. They just keep doing that. There is no  solution
to the problem."

Emmanuelli, a native of Puerto Rico, recently formed a political group to  give
Florida's Hispanics more of a voice.

In the past 12 months, agents at the INS's Tampa office have found about  500
people working illegally in 64 businesses in Central Florida, mostly in  service
and manufacturing jobs in Pinellas, Hillsborough and Sarasota  counties.

At the Sheraton Sand Key hotel, more than 60 employees were fired after an  INS
visit. About 40 were fired at the Holiday Inn-Sunspree on Clearwater  Beach. At
the Mrs. Alison's Cookies plant in Plant City, another 40 were  fired.

How frequently the mass firings occur depends on how quickly agents can  build a
case. "They might be out there every day for a week," Wolder said,  "then they
may go two weeks and not go out."

INS hopes the mass firings encourage immigrants to go back to their native
countries, Wolder said. If they stay, the hope is that they are discouraged
from getting another job.

The firings, he said, also send a message to businesses to be careful when
examining an applicant's papers, which are easily obtained in the Tampa Bay
area, according to INS and area immigration lawyers. A fake Social Security
card or a phony Alien Registration Receipt card, commonly known as a green
card, can be had for just a few hundred dollars.

Last week, at a gathering place for Hispanic immigrants in Clearwater, the
Times found several people familiar with INS's crackdown. Speaking through an
interpreter, they talked of their experiences, and of the danger of being
caught.

Francia Cardona, 31, an illegal immigrant from Colombia fired from a
manufacturing company last year, said she will not get another job until she  is
legal.

"It's too risky," she said. Cardona is a mother of three, who crossed  into
Texas in a canoe with her 7-month-old son when she was 17. When INS  agents
found her working at a Clearwater company last year, Cardona spent a  tearful
morning praying she would not have to go back to Colombia without her  family.
She now has hired a Clearwater lawyer to fight her deportation.

Laura Ruiz, who moved here legally from Peru with her family five years  ago,
said illegal immigrants searching for a job often apply for work at the  Dunedin
hotel where she manages the housekeeping staff.

"Everybody needs jobs, needs money," Ruiz said. "The people who are  illegal
need to be working. What should they do?"

Alejandro Gonzalez, 21, an illegal immigrant from Mexico, said he knows the  INS
is making rounds at businesses but says he is not concerned the INS  eventually
will find him. Gonzalez said he has not had a problem in his four  years in the
Tampa Bay area, working either in tomato fields or at  construction sites.

INS estimates 350,000 illegal immigrants live in Florida - the  fourth-highest
in the nation - but does not know how many have jobs. In the  bay area, most
come from Mexico, El Salvador, Peru, Honduras and Guatemala.

INS says hundreds of tips about illegal workers pour into the agency's  offices
each week. Calls, faxes and e-mails come from employees, customers,  competitors
and neighbors of businesses suspected of hiring illegals. But INS,  in the bay
area and nationwide, has struggled to cope with the nation's  fast-growing
illegal immigrant population, which is now at 5-million.

In recent years, the federal government stepped in to help.

The Clinton administration, with support from Congress, significantly  increased
the INS budget to compensate for years of inadequate funding. In the  past five
years, money set aside annually for enforcement rose from  $ 933-million to $
2.6-billion.

Wolder said the increase has allowed INS offices across the nation to hire  more
agents. The regional office in Tampa, responsible for 10 west-central  Florida
counties, hired two extra agents to investigate workers at businesses.

INS most often finds illegal immigrants in areas where there are strong  tourism
industries, such as the Pinellas beaches and Tampa's Westshore area.

Agents focus on hotels, restaurants, factories, commercial laundries, and
construction and landscaping companies. But Wolder said INS does not usually
fine businesses unless they knowingly hire illegal immigrants or do not have
accurate records.

Mass firings may seem strange, but some immigration lawyers say they serve  a
purpose.

William Flynn, a Tampa immigration lawyer, said the tactic is effective  because
it targets businesses, not individual workers. It can cripple a  business,
especially in times of low unemployment when businesses have trouble  finding
workers for low-paying jobs.

For example, Mrs. Alison's Cookies in Plant City was not able to replace  its
workers quickly enough and had to cut back production when 40 of its 300
employees were fired.

John Cudd, plant manager, said it took several months to fill the  vacancies.
"It was tough," he said. "As an employer, you think you have the  right
documentation, but you just don't know."

While mass firings are becoming more common, INS continues to try to deport
immigrants arrested in raids on businesses.

Last August, agents arrested 26 workers on assembly lines at Instrument
Transformers in Clearwater. In December, 52 workers were arrested at National
Linen Service in Sarasota. In January, 22 workers were arrested at Luke
Brothers lawn service company in New Port Richey.

Some employees were deported. Others fighting deportation are still waiting  for
a court date.

At the Friendly Fisherman restaurant in Madeira Beach, agents arrested 17
kitchen workers in March as they prepared for the lunch rush.

"We were completely taken off guard," said Kathleen McDole, the  restaurant's
general manager. "We were so shocked. We thought we were in the  right. We
thought we had the forms. It was terrible. We almost had to close  the
business."

The 20-year-old restaurant lost its entire kitchen staff, from cooks to
dishwashers, so suddenly that  food was left cooking on the stove.

McDole scrambled to find people to help run the restaurant: Her brother  helped
cook, other managers washed dishes, even her children pitched in.

It took the tourist spot at John's Pass almost five months to recover from  what
employees still call "Bloody Thursday."

"We just barely made it through," McDole said. "It's just another thing  that
makes it hard to do business."

- Times staff writer Ana Valle and researchers John Martin and Carolyn  Hardnett
contributed to this report.

LOAD-DATE: August 26, 1998

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                    Copyright 1998 Times Publishing Company


                              27 of 280 DOCUMENTS

                         St. Petersburg Times (Florida)

               January 10, 1999, Sunday, 0 South Pinellas Edition

INS says removals set record in 1998

SOURCE: Compiled from Times Wires

SECTION: NATIONAL; IN BRIEF; Pg. 4A

LENGTH: 458 words

DATELINE: WASHINGTON; DENVER; NEW YORK; ALBANY, N.Y.



The government said Friday it removed a record number of illegal immigrants from
the United States last year, deporting 171,154 foreigners with criminal records
or other disqualifying factors.   Removals for the fiscal year that ended in
September were up 50 percent from the 1997 record of 114,386, the Immigration
and Naturalization Service said, boasting that the figures were well ahead of
the agency's goal of 123,000 deportations.   A third of those deported, 56,011
people, were ousted because of their criminal records. Nearly half of the
criminal aliens had drug convictions.   Mexican nationals accounted for 81
percent of the overall removals and 78 percent of the criminal removals last
year, INS said.   But even as deportations are increasing, the number of illegal
immigrants living in the United States continues to grow. The illegal alien
population is estimated at more than 5-million people and growing by 275,000
annually.Appeals court reinstates use of plea bargains   DENVER - An appeals
court ruled Friday that prosecutors can offer plea bargains in exchange for
testimony, overturning a court decision that declared the practice illegal.
The decision last summer by a three-member panel of the 10th U.S. Circuit Court
of Appeals had shocked the Justice Department. That ruling took issue with the
moral and legal underpinning of immunity deals, which critics describe as a form
of bribery, and essentially would make criminals of federal prosecutors who
offer them.   In its majority opinion Friday, a 12-member panel wrote that if
Congress had intended to overturn the accepted practice, "it would have done so
in clear, unmistakable and unarguable language." Marijuana-filled luggage leads
to women's arrests   NEW YORK - Four women were arrested at La Guardia Airport
on Saturday after they picked up 13 suitcases filled with an estimated $
1-million worth of marijuana, police said.    Port Authority police made the
arrests after being tipped off that the 400 pounds of drugs were being brought
to New York on an American Airlines flight from Los Angeles, said Lt. James
Smythe, a police spokesman.   The four, all believed to be from Los Angeles,
were charged with criminal possession of drugs, he said.   Police did not
immediately release the names of the suspects or any further details.HUD
secretary Cuomo won't run for Senate  ALBANY, N.Y. - U.S. Housing Secretary
Andrew Cuomo, the eldest son of former Gov. Mario Cuomo, said Friday he will not
run for the Senate seat being given up next year by fellow Democrat Daniel
Patrick Moynihan.   The younger Cuomo plans to remain at the Department of
Housing and Urban Development and help Vice President Al Gore run for president.

LOAD-DATE: January 11, 1999

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: DIGEST

                    Copyright 1999 Times Publishing Company


                              28 of 280 DOCUMENTS

                         St. Petersburg Times (Florida)

                 March 23, 1999, Tuesday, 2 Late Tampa Edition

Illegal immigrants found during stop

BYLINE: BILL COATS

SECTION: TAMPA & STATE; Pg. 1B

LENGTH: 625 words

DATELINE: LUTZ



(ran SS edition of METRO & STATE)

More than two dozen hungry Mexicans, in search of jobs, are rounded up and fed
Monday, but most will be sent back home.

Juan Rivera, a community service officer with the Florida Highway Patrol,
thought he was helping a stranded motorist Monday when he approached the woman
next to the Ryder truck on the shoulder of Interstate 275.

Suddenly, Rivera realized he had happened upon much more.

The back door of the van, which had been partially open, flew up, and two dozen
hungry young Mexicans dashed into the woods. Rivera called for help, triggering
a big, but brief, manhunt by foot, car and helicopter.

Within an hour, the woman and 26 men had been apprehended as illegal immigrants.
Most will be returned to Mexico. The men told officers they had slipped into
Arizona, boarded the truck and ridden for three days without food or water in
hopes of getting work in South Florida.

Deputies said the truck held plastic jugs the men had filled with urine.

Steve McDonald, the agent in charge of the U.S. Border Patrol's Tampa station,
said traffic of illegal farmworkers to South Florida isn't unusual, but that
Monday's incident was.

"It's unusual for here," McDonald said. "Usually they get farther south before
they're encountered."

He said the case appeared to be an organized smuggling operation, and the Border
Patrol would try to identify and prosecute the smugglers.

After the Mexicans scampered away from I-275 about 12:30 p.m., the first
American many encountered was R.P. "Scotty" Scott, a retired optician who was
feeding his three chickens at the back of his property near the interstate.

Scott, 72, said he saw several of the men in the woods and said, "Can I help
you?" They cringed, he said.

Then Scott noticed more men and tried to speak to them in English. They took
translation papers from their backpacks, but those were of little help, Scott
said.

"I'm saying, "What the hell is this?' " Scott said.

They accompanied Scott to his house and showed him a phone number. He dialed,
but it was a disconnected line in Clewiston, he said.

A helicopter circled, and several of the men ducked under Scott's porch. Scott
pointed to the chopper, then to the men with a quizzical look. They nodded, he
said.

Soon, Hillsborough sheriff's Deputy Teresa Johnson drove her patrol car down
Scott's driveway, and the half-hearted escape was over.

With a Spanish-speaking deputy as an interpreter, Erly Velazquez Solis, 21, said
he and the others were from Mexico's southern state of Chiapas. Solis said
Hurricane Mitch in September had wiped out "everything," including crops and
jobs.

The men hoped to work for five to six months, sending money home, then return,
Solis said.

"Their families are dying of starvation," said sheriff's Detective Carlos
Rodriguez, who talked to the men about their home life.

Deputies clustered the illegal immigrants under the shade of an oak and in an
odd blend of confinement and pity.

The officers noticed the Mexicans desperately eyeing Scott's orange trees and
obtained Scott's permission for the men to help themselves. They gobbled down
several oranges apiece.

Tom Rives, who owns Tom's Lawn & Nursery next door, came to see what had
happened and was encouraged by a deputy to fetch food. He bought several
12-packs of soft drinks and enlisted Sunset Market & Deli to donate 15 Cuban
sandwiches. Rives' father, Roe, bought 30 McDonald's cheeseburgers. The
restaurant added free fries.

The men feasted as they were driven away to detention facilities.

"They don't cause a problem," said acting sheriff's Lt. Lance Delaney. "These
are not outlaw people.

"Basically they just come here like all our ancestors did, to earn a living."


LOAD-DATE: March 23, 1999

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DISTRIBUTION: TAMPA & STATE; CITY & STATE; METRO & STATE

GRAPHIC: COLOR PHOTO, TONY LOPEZ; BLACK AND WHITE PHOTO, TONY LOPEZ;
Hillsborough Deputy J. Bamford distributes sandwiches among illegal immigrants
caught Monday in Lutz. (ran TAMPA & STATE); Hillsborough Deputy J. Bamford
distributes sandwiches among illegal immigrants caught Monday in Lutz. (ran CITY
& STATE, METRO & STATE)

                    Copyright 1999 Times Publishing Company


                              29 of 280 DOCUMENTS

                         St. Petersburg Times (Florida)

               April 04, 1999, Sunday, 4 State / Suncoast Edition

Fatal immigrant trek brings three arrests

SOURCE: Compiled from Times Wires

SECTION: NATIONAL; THE NATION IN BRIEF; Pg. 11A

LENGTH: 591 words

DATELINE: SAN DIEGO; CAMP WOOD, Texas; WASHINGTON



U.S. authorities on Saturday arrested and prepared federal smuggling charges
against three men who accompanied dozens of suspected undocumented immigrants
rescued from isolated mountains of eastern San Diego County after a snowstorm
that left eight dead.

A spokesman for the U.S. Border Patrol said the three Mexican nationals, whose
names were not released, were identified by several survivors as having smuggled
them into the United States along a back-country corridor. The border-crossers
were overtaken Thursday night by an abrupt snowstorm and temperatures that
dipped into the 20s, spurring a broad rescue effort by U.S. and San Diego County
authorities. "We have four material witnesses," said spokesman Mario Villarreal.

Conviction on immigrant-smuggling charges would carry a minimum three years in
federal prison, plus possible additional time because immigrants died while
crossing, officials said. It would be up to state authorities to decide whether
to pursue homicide charges stemming from the deaths, but that seemed unlikely.

It was not immediately known how many people the men allegedly sought to smuggle
or if they were working together. Some of the survivors told rescuers they had
trekked for days and had been abandoned by their smugglers.

FBI steps up excavation in

search for missing atheist

CAMP WOOD, Texas - The FBI moved in additional heavy equipment Saturday as part
of its search of a sprawling ranch, apparently looking for clues to the 1995
disappearance of atheist leader Madalyn Murray O'Hair.

The FBI has been close-mouthed about the search, which began Friday with the
execution of a federal search warrant at the 5,000-acre Cooksy Ranch.

"We'll be here at least today and maybe tomorrow," FBI Special Agent Roderick
Beverly said Saturday at the main gate to the ranch. He would not confirm that
the search related to the O'Hair case or provide any additional information.

However, Tom Vinger, a spokesman for the Department of Public Safety, which
oversees the Texas Rangers law enforcement agency, said Saturday the O'Hair case
is the focus.

Mrs. O'Hair, whose 1963 Supreme Court case led to the ban on organized prayer in
public schools, vanished in 1995 with her son, a granddaughter and $ 500,000 in
gold coins.

Beverly said the searchers at the ranch Saturday included dogs, Real County
sheriff's deputies, Texas Rangers, FBI forensics experts and Internal Revenue
Service agents. In addition, a backhoe was moved onto the ranch early Saturday.

Nation of Islam leader up

and about, son-in-law says

WASHINGTON - Recuperating from prostate cancer surgery, Louis Farrakhan is
alert, walking around and has even watched a movie with family members. His
son-in-law said Saturday he expects the Nation of Islam leader to be released
from the hospital within "a matter of days."

"He's sitting up, he's talking, he's walking around more than the doctors would
like at this time," Leonard Farrakhan Muhammad, Farrakhan's son-in-law and chief
of staff, said in a telephone interview from Chicago.

Friday night, Farrakhan, 65, watched a movie in Washington's Howard University
Hospital with members of his family including Muhammad. He did not say which
film they saw.

Asked when Farrakhan is expected to be released from the hospital, Muhammad
said: "We think it's a matter of days now that he would be released."

Farrakhan, diagnosed with and first treated for prostate cancer in 1991, was
flown from his Illinois home to the hospital here Tuesday night for emergency
surgery.


LOAD-DATE: April 5, 1999

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: DIGEST

                    Copyright 1999 Times Publishing Company


                              30 of 280 DOCUMENTS

                         St. Petersburg Times (Florida)

               July 01, 1999, Thursday, 0 South Pinellas Edition

Suspected rail killer caught, let go 9 times

SOURCE: Compiled from Times Wires

SECTION: NATIONAL; WASHINGTON IN BRIEF; Pg. 4A

LENGTH: 1031 words

DATELINE: WASHINGTON



The Immigration and Naturalization Service had serial killing suspect Rafael
Resendez-Ramirez in its grasp nine times in the last 18 months and failed to
hold him.

On each occasion, the Border Patrol released him, allowing him to re-enter
Mexico after he had been apprehended trying to enter the United States
illegally.

Resendez-Ramirez is one of the FBI's Ten Most Wanted. He is accused of
committing at least eight slayings in Illinois, Texas and Kentucky, including
four since his last release June 2 in New Mexico.

INS Commissioner Doris Meissner, under fire over the matter, said she has
requested an inquiry by the Justice Department, of which the INS is a part.

Meissner said she wants to know why Resendez-Ramirez was not detained even
though he had multiple entries in INS computer tracking system for criminal
illegal immigrants and whether INS knew about his criminal activities after
being contacted by local law enforcement earlier this year.

Congress has spent $ 65-million for the development of the IDENT computer system
to aid INS in identifying illegal immigrants who previously had been apprehended
crossing the border illegally. The database also contains more than 400,000
records of aliens with criminal histories and prior deportations.

However, a report last year found that the Border Patrol was enrolling less than
two-thirds of apprehended aliens in IDENT and had failed to enter fingerprints
in the system for more than half of deported aliens.

INS also had assured Congress that IDENT would be compatible with other law
enforcement agencies' databases.

The INS, according to agency documents, first encountered Resendez-Ramirez after
he was arrested in Michigan in 1976 and returned him to Mexico. He was formally
deported three times - in 1985, 1987 and 1991.

Between January 1998 and June 2, he was apprehended nine times trying to cross
the U.S. border illegally and voluntarily returned to Mexico.

Senate panel approves

Holbrooke nomination

WASHINGTON - After spending more than a year in political limbo, diplomat
Richard Holbrooke was endorsed Wednesday by the Senate Foreign Relations
Committee to become U.N. ambassador.

The committee took less than a minute to approve the 58-year-old Holbrooke,
abruptly ending the panel's scrutiny of allegations that he violated U.S.
conflict of interest laws as an investment banker after leaving his previous
government job in 1996.

Although Holbrooke apparently commands enough support in the full Senate to be
confirmed vote when the nomination reaches the floor, he faces a final
impediment under an arcane procedure that allows a single senator to delay an
appointment indefinitely for any reason.

Sen. Charles Grassley, R-Iowa, has put a "hold" on Holbrooke's nomination to
protest the State Department's treatment of a whistle-blower who gave Congress
confidential information alleging waste and mismanagement at the United Nations.

On Wednesday, Grassley held firm despite appeals from Republican and Democratic
leaders to allow a vote on the nomination before Congress leaves for a week-long
Independence Day recess.

Starr signs off on

Hubbell plea deal

WASHINGTON - On the day the independent counsel law expired, Kenneth Starr
wrapped up the Whitewater phase of his investigation Wednesday with guilty pleas
from presidential friend Webster Hubbell and declared he's seeking an "orderly
conclusion" to the rest of his work.

Hubbell, the former No. 3 Justice Department official, was sentenced to a year
of probation after pleading guilty to a broadly worded felony charge that
accused him of concealing his and first lady Hillary Rodham Clinton's legal work
on a fraudulent Arkansas land project.

That deal with Starr averted possible testimony by the first lady at his trial,
which had been scheduled to begin Aug. 9.

Hubbell also pleaded guilty to a misdemeanor count of failing to pay income tax
in a deal that dropped tax charges against his wife, his accountant and his tax
attorney as well.

"After five years, it's over. The office of independent counsel has finally
agreed to leave me, my family and my friends alone. And our lives can begin
again," Hubbell said outside the federal courthouse. He also said Mrs. Clinton
did nothing wrong.

More security gaps

at labs reported

WASHINGTON - Even after an uproar over espionage and poor security,
investigators found security gaps at a major nuclear weapons laboratory in
California, officials said Wednesday.

The shortcomings, discovered in a review in May at the Lawrence Livermore
National Laboratory, included inadequate monitoring of access to the
unclassified computer system and deficiencies in the security force's response
to potential terrorists.

The findings by an Energy Department security oversight team were to be
presented in a classified briefing to the House Commerce Committee today.

CBO surplus projection

lower than Clinton's

WASHINGTON - In a surprise to some, the Congressional Budget Office plans to
predict today that budget surpluses during the next decade will grow only half
has much as President Clinton has estimated.

CBO will say that excluding Social Security, budget surpluses during the next 10
years appear to be about $ 170-billion higher than the non-partisan agency
projected in January, congressional aides told the Associated Press.

On Monday, the White House calculated a $ 333-billion 10-year, non-Social
Security surplus increase since its last estimate in February.

The difference between CBO and the White House is significant because it means
lawmakers will have less extra money than many had hoped for to use for bigger
tax cuts or additional spending than previously planned.

In particular, some Republicans had been hoping for a cumulative surplus large
enough to let them write a 10-year, $ 1-trillion tax cut.

Disabled may earn

more and keep benefits

WASHINGTON - Beginning today, people with disabilities may earn up to $ 700 per
month - $ 200 more than the old limit - before losing their federal benefits.

The Social Security Administration estimates the change will benefit about
27,000 people and cost $ 1.2-billion through 2004.


LOAD-DATE: July 1, 1999

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: BLACK AND WHITE PHOTO; Richard Holbrooke

TYPE: DIGEST

                    Copyright 1999 Times Publishing Company


                              31 of 280 DOCUMENTS

                         St. Petersburg Times (Florida)

                             August 4, 1996, Sunday

Don't aim reform at children

SECTION: PERSPECTIVE; EDITORIALS; Pg. 2D

LENGTH: 448 words



It was a bad week for immigrants, and a shameful one for Congress.

Republicans were pushing a mean-spirited bill that could deny public  education
to the children of illegal immigrants. The measure carries plenty of  xenophobic
appeal this election year and follows similar attacks on immigrants  through
English-only legislation and welfare cuts.

Republicans claim they're responding to a crisis. If that were true,  lawmakers
would help states like Florida, California and Texas with the
multibillion-dollar costs of providing services, instead of offering hollow
solutions to illegal immigration that will only worsen the problems of  juvenile
dependency and crime.

The bill would allow local school districts to charge illegal immigrants  more
than $ 5,000 annually for public school tuition once their children reach  the
seventh grade. Those unable or unwilling to pay - read: the vast majority  -
could be reported to the Immigration and Naturalization Service and rounded  up.
If illegal immigrants had that kind of money, they could send their  children to
private schools.

But where will these displaced schoolchildren go? Law enforcement is  sharply
critical of the Republicans' plan. Their concern - turning more  unsupervised
children onto the streets - is one reason why Florida lawmakers  killed similar
legislation this year.

Nobody quibbles with the fact that taxpayers are burdened with an enormous
cost. Florida spends about $ 400-million annually to educate illegal
immigrants. California's bill tops $ 2-billion.

But targeting children is a fraud. Illegals flock to America for jobs.  That's
how their children end up in public schools in the first place. If  Republicans
were serious about tightening the borders, they'd crack down on  the cheap-labor
industry, which has blocked efforts to verify that only legal  workers are
hired. Schools aren't responsible for border control, and Florida,  for one,
isn't eager for the job.

"I don't know that we'd take the feds up on their offer," said Brewser  Brown, a
spokesman for Florida's Education Department. "The commissioner  doesn't want to
push children out into the street."

The issue is stalled, but not resolved. Moderate Republicans have balked at  the
school-eviction plan, while another component - airport courts, which pass
on-the-spot judgment on immigrants and asylum seekers - opened as a pilot
project in Miami only last month. Congress appears likely to postpone a vote
until later this year.

Congress should use the August break to rethink its piecemeal approach to
immigration reform. If fairness doesn't prevail, a presidential veto should.

LOAD-DATE: August 6, 1996

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: EDITORIAL

                    Copyright 1996 Times Publishing Company


                              32 of 280 DOCUMENTS

                         St. Petersburg Times (Florida)

                           September 15, 1996, Sunday

Is this Bob Dole?

SECTION: PERSPECTIVE; EDITORIALS; Pg. 2D

LENGTH: 512 words



A man purporting to be Bob Dole showed up on Capitol Hill last week. He  looked
just like the respected majority leader who left the Senate three  months ago to
campaign full time for president, but this Bob Dole was  advocating
irresponsible positions that the real Bob Dole never would have  tolerated.

Who was this impostor? That question was being asked not by his political
rivals but by Dole's own Republican allies in Congress.

The man purporting to be Dole interjected himself into Congress last week  to
block ratification of a treaty to ban chemical weapons and to defeat a bill
that would crack down on illegal immigration.

His motivation? He didn't want President Clinton to have two more political
victories to crow about on the campaign trail. This is bizarre. Dole strongly
supported the ban on chemical weapons earlier this year when he was Senate
majority leader. It was Dole who engineered the compromise to get the treaty  on
the Senate calendar. Where is the political gain in abandoning that  principled
work and opposing a ban on poison gas?

The immigration bill would beef up the Border Patrol and restrict public
benefits for legal immigrants, but Dole insisted on a clause that would deny
illegal immigrants' children a public education, knowing a congressional
majority would not accept the clause. Republican Wyoming Sen. Alan K. Simpson,
an old Dole friend, was left shaking his head in bewilderment at the Dole  camp.
"I can't believe they're doing this,"Simpson said. "Bob Dole is going  to go to
states with large numbers of illegal immigrants like California,  Texas and
Illinois, and they are going to ask what did you do to deal with  this, and all
he'll be able to say is "nothing.' "

Another Dole colleague, Republican Sen. Richard Lugar of Indiana, had been
pushing the treaty that would outlaw chemical weapons such as nerve and  mustard
gases and bring more pressure on outlaw regimes like Iraq. The treaty  is
strongly supported by George Bush, Colin Powell and the Chemical  Manufacturers
Association, to name just a few.

Dole wrote a letter critical of the treaty to the man who replaced him as
Senate majority leader, Trent Lott, and that denied Senate supporters the 67
votes needed for ratification. "The whole process was politicized in a way  that
would be harmful to our foreign policy," said Lugar, who hopes the  treaty will
be ratified next year.

Dole - assuming it really was him - flip-flopped in precisely the wrong
directions. Even the nation's police chiefs recommended that the children of
illegal immigrants be allowed to attend school. Otherwise, the juvenile crime
problem grows. When it comes to chemical weapons, nearly every nation favors a
treaty that moves us a step closer to banning them.

Dole is wrong on the political tactics, as well. What can he gain by  thwarting
the will of most Americans? There's a pettiness and desperation to  his actions
that belie the presidential qualities he so much wants us to  believe he
possesses.

LOAD-DATE: September 17, 1996

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: EDITORIAL

                    Copyright 1996 Times Publishing Company


                              33 of 280 DOCUMENTS

                         St. Petersburg Times (Florida)

               October 18, 1996, Friday, 0 South Pinellas Edition

The folly of denying prenatal care

SECTION: EDITORIAL; EDITORIALS; Pg. 14A

LENGTH: 361 words



When Congress cut off federal funding for prenatal care to pregnant illegal
immigrant women, it showed as little foresight as compassion. The measures  will
only drive these women into emergency care settings at increased health  risk to
themselves and their babies - and greater financial costs to society.

Under the welfare reform law, undocumented immigrants and future legal
immigrants are ineligible for Medicaid-funded prenatal care. If a state wants
to provide such care, it must foot the whole bill. Legal non-citizen  immigrants
already in the country may continue to receive Medicaid-funded  prenatal care if
the state so elects. But emergency medical care must still be  provided for all
pregnant women, whether legally in the country or not.

Congress ignored the weight of authority that early prenatal care saves  money
as well as lives. Lack of prenatal care increases the chance that a  mother will
have a complicated delivery. It also leads to serious birth  defects in the
newborn, such as spina bifida, a tragic and enormously costly  condition that
can be prevented if vitamins are taken early in the pregnancy.  Once born, the
child of an undocumented alien becomes an American citizen,  eligible for other
benefits that go along with citizenship. Undoubtedly, these  emergency, neonatal
and long-term health costs often vastly exceed the costs  of prenatal care.

Jusk ask Florida Gov. Lawton Chiles, who can recite by heart the successes  of
Healthy Start, a statewide effort he created, in lowering infant mortality  and
low-birth-weight babies. The program has been serving pregnant illegal
immigrant women since its inception in 1991, and state officials pledge to
continue.

For other states, the prospect is less encouraging. At the same time Gov.  Pete
Wilson callously celebrates the law as a victory for California, pregnant
illegal immigrant women in his state are vanishing from community health
centers. Their doctors and others fear for the women's health and that of the
developing lives they carry. State officials more prudent than Wilson probably
also fear for the state's coffers.

LOAD-DATE: October 18, 1996

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: EDITORIAL

                    Copyright 1996 Times Publishing Company


                              34 of 280 DOCUMENTS

                         St. Petersburg Times (Florida)

                            November 8, 1996, Friday

INS arrests 28 adults in laundry raid

BYLINE: JANE MEINHARDT

SECTION: SEMINOLE TIMES; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 479 words

DATELINE: CLEARWATER



Federal officials raided a Clearwater laundry Thursday for the second time in
two months, arresting employees under investigation as illegal immigrants.

Lemar Wooley, spokesman for the U.S. Immigration and Naturalization  Service,
said 28 adults were taken into custody. One is from Guatemala; the  others are
from Mexico.

He said the raid was a continuation of an investigation that resulted in  the
Sept. 9 arrest of 23 Mexicans at Clearwater Linen & Uniform Supply at 601  Grand
Central. Eighteen of those were returned to Mexico the next day; others  were
released pending hearings.

According to Wooley, a similar process will be used with people taken into
custody Thursday.

However, women with families that include dependent children will be  released
on their own recognizance pending hearings on their alien status. Men  with the
same family situation will be allowed to post bail.

He said 16 women, 12 men and four juveniles were taken into custody. The
juveniles were put in custody of the Mexican vice consul.

"All will be handled on a case-by-case basis on their hearing dates,"  Wooley
said. "At their hearings, they can state what they believe their case  to be."

John E. Tayler, the business's vice president, said the raid has crippled  the
business again. Without the employees taken into custody in September and  on
Thursday, the linen processing plant is operating at about 25 percent  capacity.

"The people they took the first time were a core group," he said. "They  took
people who have been here three years - supervisors and checkers. We had  just
started training people again. This has had an awful impact on our  business."

Tayler estimated that about 80 percent of the laundry's employees, which  has
been in business since 1912, are Hispanic. Most are Mexican.

According to Tayler, Immigration and Naturalization agents came to the  laundry
about two weeks ago and checked a list of employees. He said officials  agreed
to let the business know if more illegal immigrants were in its employ  but
never did.

Wooley said federal law requires employers to verify an employee's work
eligibility by making certain as best they can that identification documents
presented are genuine.

No charges were filed against the laundry's owners in the September raid.

The Rev. Peter Schweitzer of St. Cecelia Church was in Tampa to help the  people
taken into custody, most of whom are his parishioners. Schweitzer said  he had
no idea if any had faked documents. He said he knew only that those  arrested
were trying to escape extreme conditions in Mexico and worked hard in
Clearwater to provide a better life for their families.

According to Schweitzer, the Mexicans seemed to like working at the  laundry.

"They are just hard-working people," the priest said. "They want a  better
life."

LOAD-DATE: November 8, 1996

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DISTRIBUTION: SEMINOLE TIMES; LARGO TIMES; CLEARWATER TIMES; NORTH PINELLAS
TIMES; CITY & STATE

GRAPHIC: COLOR PHOTO, JOAN KADEL FENTON; BLACK AND WHITE PHOTO, JOAN KADEL
FENTON; BLACK AND WHITE PHOTO; Immigration and Naturalization Service agent Jim
Johnson takes workers Erika Martin-Pastor and Socorro Valdez-Martinez into
custody (ran SE, LA, CT); Immigration and Naturalization Service agent Jim
Johnson takes workers Erika Martin-Pastor and Socorro Valdez-Martinez into
custody (ran NT, CITY & STATE); Archbishop Spyridon (ran LA, CT)

                    Copyright 1996 Times Publishing Company


                              35 of 280 DOCUMENTS

                         St. Petersburg Times (Florida)

                            August 10, 1997, Sunday

Illegal immigrants draw INS patrols to Clearwater

BYLINE: ANITA KUMAR

SECTION: SEMINOLE TIMES; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1283 words

DATELINE: CLEARWATER



(ran SS edition of METRO & STATE)

The number of Mexicans who sneak across the border and settle in Clearwater  has
swelled in the past two years, prompting federal agents to step up patrols
looking for illegal immigrants.

Since September, U.S. Immigration and Naturalization Service investigators  have
arrested almost 80 immigrants, mostly Mexicans, at factories and service
companies. At least another 100 have been picked up in routine patrols since
January.

"That's nothing," said Clearwater police Sgt. J.J. TenBieg, who assists  the INS
agents when they come to town. "One hundred since January is a drop  in the
bucket. You could go all day and pick up so many more than that."

Agents, working with local police officers, come to Clearwater an average  of
every two weeks to investigate tips they have received and to scout the  streets
for immigrants who have fake residency papers or no papers at all.

Sometimes, TenBeig said, police stop people who are walking along the  street
and ask them for identification based solely on their Hispanic  features. Other
times, local police and federal agents stop people because  they have received a
tip about them, they look suspicious or they try to run  when they see an
officer.

"You would think we were in Nazi Germany," said the Rev. Peter Schweitzer  at
St. Cecelia Catholic Church, who often helps Mexicans find jobs and homes.  "To
me, this sounds like what Hitler did to the Jews. It makes me sick to my
stomach."

INS agents, who are based in Tampa and work 12 counties in west Florida,  say
they are only doing their job and are not targeting one area or race.

"We arrest people from all over the world," said Steve McDonald, patrol  agent
in charge of the Tampa office of the U.S. Border Patrol, a branch of the  INS.
"We use facts, leads and officer experience to determine whether a  person
violates an immigration law."

Robyn Blumner, a lawyer and director of the Florida chapter of the American
Civil Liberties Union, said police are allowed to stop and talk to anyone but
that people do not have to respond.

"You don't have to offer identification or answer questions," Blumner  said.
"They can't force you to do that."

James Minton, officer in charge of the INS investigative office in Tampa,  does
not know how many illegal immigrants are in Clearwater, but he said  several
tips have led investigators here in the past several months. Local  police and
immigration lawyers estimate there are 6,000 to 10,000.

Minton and McDonald say most of the illegal immigrants in Clearwater, a  city
with about 104,000 residents, are from Mexico. Specifically, they come  from
Ixmiquilan, a tiny city about 80 miles from Mexico City in the state of
Hidalgo.

Authorities say Mexicans began moving here more than 15 years ago but they
started coming in greater numbers five years ago. In the past two years, as
conditions in Mexico have worsened, Clearwater has seen the greatest increase.
The city also has seen immigrants from Central and South America, including El
Salvador, Peru, Honduras and Guatemala.

"There are people from Canada and Europe who are overstaying their  visas," said
Ramon Carrion, a local immigration lawyer. "They're just as  illegal as anyone
else but the most noticeable person is the Mexican worker."

Motivated workers,

low-paying jobs

   Local and federal officials say they do not know why Ixmiquilan residents
chose Clearwater. Schweitzer said some Mexicans have told him it might be
because a former Clearwater mayor in the 1970s was of Mexican descent.

"These are good people," Schweitzer said. "They want a better life for  their
children and will do whatever it takes. They are not causing a problem.  They're
hard-working."

His church holds a Spanish Mass on Sunday nights for many immigrants who  work
Sunday mornings.

TenBieg said many Mexicans live behind Cleveland Plaza, on Turner Street,  near
Crest Lake Park and the north end of Clearwater Beach. He said they often  live
with several other families or more than a dozen people in rented houses  or
apartments.

"You walk into these houses and see mattresses spread over all over the
floors," TenBieg said. "At night, you see 15 cars parked all over the  yard."

TenBieg agreed with Schweitzer that most of the immigrants are honest and
hard-working.

Authorities say immigrants move here, risking deportation, to find a job, a
better place to live and to meet with family members and friends.

"They hear Clearwater has opportunities to work," said Mark Weiner,  another
immigration lawyer. "If there are jobs available, they'll come."

Weiner and Schweitzer said immigrants are taking many of the blue-collar  jobs
that Americans generally do not want because of the low pay. INS agents  say
they often find illegal aliens working in restaurants, hotels, commercial
laundry companies, factories, construction companies and other service or
manufacturing jobs.

"The employer gets a motivated worker who agrees to a low-paying job,"  Carrion
said. "We have lots of jobs but they're low-paying. You're only going  to get a
desperate person to do that."

Last month, 26 immigrants were arrested while working on assembly lines at
Instrument Transformers, a manufacturing company. Minton said 15 of those
people were deported. He said the others are fighting to stay, so they were
released and will appear before an immigration judge.

During two raids last year, INS arrested a total of 51 employees at  Clearwater
Linen & Uniform Supply.

Fake documents often

fool employers

   Minton said INS also is looking for the people who make fake documents that
allow illegal immigrants to get jobs. He said illegal immigrants usually cross
the border and get to Clearwater before they start asking friends or family
members where they can get fake documents.

Through word of mouth, Weiner said, they are put in touch with a person who
comes to their house to take their photograph and their money. He returns in a
few days with the documents.

Authorities say illegal immigrants pay anywhere from a few dollars to  $ 10,000
for the documents, although most pay $ 300 to $ 500. Minton and McDonald  say
the documents are good enough to fool employers, but often do not have the
correct paper, lettering or seals. Some illegal immigrants believe the cards
they receive are legal.

Weiner said the people who make the documents, usually legal immigrants or
Americans, set up businesses in their homes where they make fake Alien
Registration Receipt Cards, commonly known as green cards; Employment
Authorization Documents; and Social Security cards. They often leave town  after
they make hundreds of thousands of dollars in a few months and move to  Texas,
California or other states, where there is a large population of  illegal
immigrants.

A combination of those documents, or a driver's license, passport or birth
certificate, must be shown to an employer during hiring in the United States.
Even those in the country temporarily must pay taxes, including Social
Security.

A legitimate green card, which must be carried at all times, is used to  show
that person is allowed to stay in the country until he becomes a citizen.  An
Employment Authorization Document is given to people temporarily until they
receive a green card.

Weiner and Schweitzer say it is difficult to receive legitimate documents
unless an immigrant marries a U.S. citizen or proves he has special job  skills.



- Times researcher Carolyn Hardnett contributed to this report.

LOAD-DATE: August 12, 1997

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DISTRIBUTION: SEMINOLE TIMES; LARGO TIMES; CLEARWATER TIMES; CITY & STATE; METRO

 & STATE

GRAPHIC: BLACK AND WHITE MAP; COLOR MAP; locates Ixmiquilpan, Mexico, (ran SE,
CITY & STATE, METRO & STATE); locates Ixmiquilpan, Mexico, (ran LA, CT)

                    Copyright 1997 Times Publishing Company


                              36 of 280 DOCUMENTS

                         St. Petersburg Times (Florida)

                            August 18, 1997, Monday

No more lights on U.S. 19, not even for ABR

SECTION: SEMINOLE TIMES; LETTERS; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 1334 words



Re: Business may get its own stoplight, story, Aug. 14.

I travel on U.S. 19 all the time, especially in Palm Harbor. It is already
awful, and it seems that everywhere you look, there is a light. If there is
another light added (even a part-time one), there would not be a minor impact
on traffic but a much bigger one.

I mean, how can a traffic light stopping traffic during rush hours have a  small
impact? I don't see how a traffic light will help ABR employees make  U-turns,
as the article stated that employees had a hard time making them. I  seriously
believe that if they are having problems making U-turns, then they  have a
bigger problem than just wanting a traffic light.

I know ABR has been trying to bribe Pinellas County into putting up a light  by
threatening to leave, but I don't believe them. They spent so much money
building that place that I seriously doubt they will just pack up and leave if
they don't get their way.

Courtney Hardy, Clearwater

Illegal immigrants deserve better

   Re: Police, INS tactics must be tempered, editorial, Aug. 13.

Thank you for your fine editorial regarding the often tragic immigration
situation. I would like to make a further comment regarding this issue.

Very few are aware that many of these illegal immigrants have no way to  improve
their situation. The new immigration laws are so restrictive that  unless one
marries a U.S. citizen or is a professional, such as a doctor or  lawyer, it is
practically impossible to enter the country legally.

What seems to be missing in such restrictive legislation is the need for a
hard-working, industrious labor force. They have the requisite skills and
desire to truly help this country but are not able to do so since the law does
not permit such a work force. If one were to ask the local businesses about
such employees, I am certain that one would hear nothing but praise.

The laws need to be changed in order to better reflect the local realities.
Honest, hard-working blue-collar (immigrant) workers have always been the
backbone of this country. Why are we so intolerant now? Why now do we not see
opportunities for growth and understanding in our diversity as a nation?

If we continue to mistreat these people, it will be to our own detriment as
well as our own shame as a nation.

The Rev. Peter Schweitzer,

St. Cecelia Catholic Church, Clearwater

Enclave hungry for improvements

   I have been reading with great interest the articles and letters about the
annexation of enclaves in Pinellas County. We live in a so-called enclave and
curiously enough, five houses at the bottom of our street are in the city of
Clearwater, while we exist with 40-year-old aging septic tanks, deteriorating
roads and all the rest of this boondoggle.

Our subdivision, Sunnypark Groves, is off Highland Avenue just south of
Lakeview. We are surrounded by small pockets of city-maintained property,
complete with street lights and newly paved roads. There are a few die-hards
who will not respond to a reasonable request for improvement of this  situation.
Surely they must realize the value of our property can only be  appreciated by
these improvements.

Our greatest concern is the impact this environmental disaster could have  on
our property. If there is any way the city and county could work together  to
alleviate this situation, we would be most happy to assist. By the way, our
street is Satsuma, the newest street in this area of citrus-related names.

Helen J. Spicer, Clearwater

Non-residents can be civic supporters

   We are 15-year newcomers to this beautiful area.

Our relocation to this area was heavily influenced by the nearby cultural
facilities such as Dunedin Fine Arts Center, Ruth Eckerd Hall, Tampa Bay
Performing Arts Center, etc.

We do not agree with being just takers but instead support the arts in  whatever
way we can. In the case of the Dunedin Fine Arts Center, my wife has  been a
volunteer for approximately six years, working in the gift shop weekly.  In
addition, we work on the Garden Party fund-raiser and financially support  as
well as work diligently for two months on the annual Holiday Festival.

While working at or writing a check to the Dunedin Fine Arts Center, we  never
consider that we are supporting a neighboring community rather than our  own
Palm Harbor. Instead, we consider that we are doing our part to ensure the
continuation of a fabulous facility that happens to be in Dunedin.

We have been total supporters of the expansion of this facility and while,  at
this point, that support is only moral, we have all intentions of adding  our
financial support to this endeavor.

Perhaps the dichotomy that has appeared, related to the Dunedin Fine Arts
Center, could be reduced by a visit to the center and attention paid to some  of
the visitor comments from other communities and other countries. Then,  perhaps,
the descanters would glow with pride instead of indignation.

Mr. and Mrs. Robert G. Landman, Palm Harbor

9-foot parking spaces just right

      Re: Tarpon must look to future with eye to past, Aug. 8.

I appreciated your editorial of Aug. 8, but you are preaching to the choir.

The reduction in parking width may have been spurred by the new ABR Plaza.
However, its necessity is rooted in fundamental principles. When the required
number of parking spaces can't fit in a desired area, either the parking space
size becomes smaller or the total paved area increases. ABR wants to keep as
much green space as possible. Ten-foot-wide spaces are a luxury. Eight feet is
a nuisance. Nine feet is environmentally sensitive and minimizes urban sprawl.

You are right that the city needs ABR, but not just for the economic jolt.
ABR's development order will fix the finished floor area to about 400,000
square feet. Nevertheless, the 70-acre site can be developed to more than
1-million square feet. We are fortunate that ABR wishes their headquarters to
have a campuslike look and feel. If we lose ABR and the next developer comes
along, that is when we will see a real squeeze.

The swimming pool setback issue originated as a neighbor dispute and now is
being pitched as a cause. If anything has muddied the water, it has been the
continued and poorly founded rhetoric over this issue being critical to saving
the city and its environment. This issue involves at most 5 percent of the
city's shoreline. We have gone full circle from preserving the view and
waterfront character, to improving water quality, to protecting marine life
and, now again, to preserving the waterfront character. State agencies are
contradicting each other, and who's caught in the middle? The City of Tarpon
Springs. Go figure.

The $ 750,000 grant for the sponge docks area is great. But we can't rely on
money to solve all our problems. I am optimistic that the forthcoming Sponge
Docks Cultural District and smooth implementation will preserve the sponge
dock's future in its past.

Costa S. Vatikiotis, city manager, Tarpon Springs

Spending should benefit residents

   A gentle reminder to the city of Dunedin commissioners. The contributions  of
money and services provided to the Fine Arts Center are items that should  be
utilized by the city for the benefit of Dunedin residents.

If the residents derive no benefit from such money or services or derive  such
little benefit that non-residents benefit equally or better, then  consideration
should be given to transferring the money and services to some  other area of
activity that would be of more value to residents.

Coments such as "the Blue Jays are my first priority" or "I will not  abandon
the Center" seem hardly compatible to the needs of the residents of  Dunedin,
more like responses to the loudest voices.

C.J. Scripps, Dunedin

LOAD-DATE: August 19, 1997

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DISTRIBUTION: SEMINOLE TIMES; LARGO TIMES; CLEARWATER TIMES; NORTH PINELLAS
TIMES

TYPE: LETTER

                    Copyright 1997 Times Publishing Company


                              37 of 280 DOCUMENTS

                         St. Petersburg Times (Florida)

              October 1, 1997, Wednesday, 0 South Pinellas Edition

Senate extends resident deadline

BYLINE: MARTY ROSEN

SECTION: CITY & STATE; Pg. 3B

LENGTH: 612 words

DATELINE: TAMPA



The door to U.S. residency will remain ajar a while longer after a  last-minute
Senate vote Tuesday to extend for three weeks a law that allows  some illegal
immigrants to apply for legal residence without leaving the  country.

The vote and subsequent signing of the extension by President Clinton came  late
Tuesday afternoon, long after more than 400 immigrants looking to beat  the
deadline of midnight Tuesday had begun lining up outside the Immigration  and
Naturalization Service office in Tampa.

They waited patiently in a jammed waiting room, pacified by two bilingual
security officers who joked with nervous applicants in Spanish. Many, confused
by reports that an immigration deadline loomed on Sept. 30, came to the office
only to discover after waiting upwards of six hours that their cases were not
affected by the deadline.

"We came here a week before, and it was the same outrageous line. We  didn't
have any idea," said Tom Leung, a U.S. citizen who brought his  Filipino wife to
the office at 6 a.m., then waited until after 2 p.m. to see  an examiner. Rose
Leung is in the country legally and is not affected by the  change in the law.

The expiring statute that caused the deadline rush allowed certain illegal
immigrants who meet other eligibility criteria to remain in the U.S. while
their applications for residency are processed. The exemption applied only to
people who entered the U.S. illegally or overstayed the limits on their visas.

With the extension passed Tuesday, illegal residents have until Oct. 23 to  pay
a $ 1,000 fine and file papers that will allow them to remain. After that  date,
anyone caught in the country illegally will be deported, then barred  from
returning for up to 10 years.

By 5 p.m., the lines at the Tampa office were depleted, and new applicants
walked in and saw an examiner within minutes.

Alex Muneton raced to the office late Tuesday after his brother called to  warn
him about an immigration deadline being advertised on the radio. Muneton,  21,
is a Colombian citizen and legal U.S. resident, and his wife and  2-year-old
daughter are here on tourist visas they renew by regularly  returning to
Colombia and applying for extensions. If he returned to Colombia,  he would
immediately have to enter the army, he said.

"You don't feel comfortable," said Muneton, after discovering his wife's  papers
were in order. "I didn't want them to be illegal."

A line began forming before midnight Monday and stretched around the  outside of
the immigration office with hundreds of anxious people from India,  Mexico,
Russia, the Philippines, Colombia.

Edith Charrez, who arrived at 9 a.m. with her stepmother, missed school  Tuesday
to wait more than six hours to file an application to remain in the  U.S.

Edith, 15, is here illegally.

Her father spent three weeks in Mexico earlier this year in a failed effort  to
bring Edith legally to Florida. The girl lived in conditions her American
stepmother would describe only as horrible. In desperation, they hired
"coyotes" four months ago to smuggle the child into the country.

She scuffed at the toes of her new sneakers and shyly said in Spanish that  she
likes the United States a little, but she misses her favorite Mexican egg  dish.
When a reporter told her she was picked to be interviewed because she  looked
like a smart girl, the shy teenager shook her head.

"No, you must have a different opinion after talking to me," she said in
Spanish.

Her stepmother, Julia Charrez, explained that Edith has been through  difficult
situations on her way to America. "Low self-esteem," she said.

LOAD-DATE: October 2, 1997

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DISTRIBUTION: CITY & STATE; METRO & STATE; TAMPA & STATE

                    Copyright 1997 Times Publishing Company


                              38 of 280 DOCUMENTS

                         St. Petersburg Times (Florida)

                           February 13, 2000, Sunday

Man charged in immigrant fraud case

BYLINE: JANE MEINHARDT

SECTION: LARGO TIMES; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 876 words

DATELINE: CLEARWATER



(ran SS edition of METRO & STATE)

In a rare move, illegal immigrants decide not to suffer in silence and fear, and
turn to Clearwater police for assistance.

All David Mendoza wanted was a decent place of his own, a rental apartment for
himself  and his nephew.

The 28-year-old Mexican had  sneaked across the border last year and came to
Clearwater, leaving behind a wife, two daughters, six brothers and a sister.

Living in a cramped, one-bedroom apartment with five other Mexican men, Mendoza
works 62 hours a week at a carwash and sends money back to his family. In
October, he had scraped together $ 965 for what he thought would be a new place
to live.

Instead, Mendoza, 28, was ripped off by a man accused of preying on at least 15
Mexicans who paid thousands for apartments and identification documents that
never materialized. When the victims tried to get their money back, the man -
who was born in Puerto Rico - threatened to turn them in to federal immigration
authorities.

In a rare move, Mendoza and the other illegal immigrants turned to Clearwater
police last month for help. They decided not to suffer in silence and fear,
which is the usual response among local Mexicans when they are victimized.

"With not having the proper papers, they're so vulnerable," said Alex
Emmanuelli, founder of Uno Federation Community Services, a non-profit agency
supporting the local Hispanic population. "You hear through the grapevine of
scams and problems with them, but it doesn't go beyond their community."

Not this time. Based on information from Mendoza and other Mexicans who lost
money, Clearwater detective Ramon Cosme arrested Luis Cruz, 47, on Jan. 26 on a
charge of scheming to defraud victims who paid a total of more than $ 6,000 for
documents and apartments Cruz was never in a position to provide.

For Mexicans who are here illegally to seek such law enforcement assistance is
almost unique, said Peter Schweitzer, a priest formerly at St. Cecelia Catholic
Church and a founder of La Clinica Guadalupana, which provides free medical care
for the Hispanic community.

"I can't think of another time this has happened, unfortunately," Schweitzer
said. "It's a step in the right direction. They typically fear the police and
equate them to INS."

Most of the victimization he has encountered has involved employers. There have
been instances, Schweitzer said, where he has intervened when women were being
sexually exploited by employers who figured that because the Mexicans were in
the country illegally, they would be too  afraid to report the crime to police.

Cruz also counted on that, Cosme said.

"These (Mexicans) got taken advantage of," said Cosme, who speaks Spanish. "They
all paid in cash, and he told them he would use his credit to get them
apartments. He was supposed to have a friend he would take them to for an ID
card and told them it would cost $ 350. Nobody knows who this buddy was, and I
don't think he existed."

The victims were skittish, he said, because Cruz's threats made them afraid they
would be deported. That fear already has sent one victim into hiding. Cosme said
there are more victims, but they have not come forward.

Cruz, who was released from jail on his own recognizance, did not respond to
requests for an interview.

Cosme credited Rodolfo Scherer, a Hispanic notary who is familiar to the Mexican
community, with convincing the Mexicans to go to police. Scherer, who is from
Argentina, operates Ixmiquilpan, a Mexican grocery on Drew Street.

Scherer helps Mexicans send money to their families and cope with things such as
getting paid with bad checks. In many cases, he said, Mexicans pay fees
amounting to 10 percent to 15 percent of their paychecks to get them cashed
because they have no identification or bank accounts.

When he found out about Cruz's activities, Scherer confronted him at a
Clearwater apartment complex where he worked and lived. He made Cruz sign a
notarized promissory note for the money Mendoza paid him and  persuaded the
victims to go to the police.

Mendoza has shown the handwritten document to Cosme and keeps it in his pocket.
He made a dismissive noise through pursed lips and smiled when asked, through an
interpreter, if he is afraid now of Clearwater police.

"No," said Mendoza.

Police Chief Sid Klein views that as one small victory. In a city where about 15
percent of the population is Hispanic - mostly Mexican - he is trying to bridge
cultural, language and other gaps with various programs.

One thing is certain: Clearwater police are not interested in turning people in
to immigration authorities.

"That's not our job," Klein said. "Our efforts are aimed at looking for
solutions for a problem that is falling into our laps. We have stopped
participating in roundups."

Soft-spoken and stocky, Mendoza readily admits he is an illegal immigrant. He
still works at a Palm Harbor carwash seven days a week, making $ 5.40 an hour.
Each month, he sends about $ 700 to his family in Oaxaca.

It took Mendoza more than a month to save the $ 965. He plans to see the case
through to its end.

"I will go to court and testify," Mendoza said firmly.

- Times staff photographer John Pendygraft contributed to this report.


LOAD-DATE: February 14, 2000

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DISTRIBUTION: LARGO TIMES; SEMINOLE TIMES; CLEARWATER TIMES; NORTH PINELLAS
TIMES; CITY & STATE; METRO & STATE; TAMPA & STATE

GRAPHIC: BLACK AND WHITE PHOTO, JOHN PENDYGRAFT; David Mendoza, 28, vacuums a
car at a Palm Harbor carwash, where he works seven days a week to send money
home to family in Mexico. (ran LA SE CT NT, CITY & STATE, TAMPA & STATE)

                    Copyright 2000 Times Publishing Company


                              39 of 280 DOCUMENTS

                         St. Petersburg Times (Florida)

                            March 02, 2000, Thursday

Offer to help immigrants instead of pointing out 'illegals'

SECTION: LARGO TIMES; LETTERS; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 1232 words



Re: Officials should focus on law-abiding citizens, letter, Feb. 21, and Tired
of being victims, illegal immigrants speak up, story, Feb. 13.

Lest we forget that we Americans are the champions of human rights worldwide, we
have the obligation to seek redress for anyone being abused. It is not the duty
of any police officer, church or non-profit organization to turn in illegal
immigrants. We do and must encourage them to make their status legal.

Some clarifications are in order:

 I regret that the Times mentioned that Luis Cruz was born in Puerto Rico rather
than just saying he is an American, because that is what he is, just one of us.
He should be prosecuted for his misdeed if there was one and let due process be
applied.

 Every employee pays Social Security and other deductions. The employer in most
cases doesn't know if one is legal or illegal. For the illegal, they pay taxes
but don't receive many of the benefits of taxpayers, such as unemployment
compensation. If an employees' papers are falsified, they get no Social Security
benefits either, which helps us Americans with our benefits.

 It is absurd for the letter writer to say that illegal immigrants get
preferential treatment. Slumlords, employers and others prey upon hard-working,
decent people.

My position is to look at the human side of this problem and see how I can help.
It is not up to me or anyone to label people "illegal," as I do not have the
authority to do so. The American and Christian thing to do is to treat people
with respect and lend a hand when there is a need, regardless of race, religion,
gender or national origin.

Alex Emmanuelli, chairman,

Uno Federation Community Services Inc.

Palm Harbor

Leave man alone

to earn honest living

Re: Age key to fruit stand battle, story, Feb. 23.

Spiro Pittaras' fruit stand was here before any of the Pinellas County
commissioners and, hopefully, will be here when they are gone. Why don't they
let a man earn an honest living?

Would they rather he go on welfare and the county pick up the tab? Traffic has
increased all over the county since I have moved here only 10 years ago. Should
you take away a man's livelihood because of that?

The fruit on that stand ripens and matures with age. Wouldn't it be nice if the
same went for the commissioners?

Joan Rubenstein, Palm Harbor

Real aim of long leases is redevelopment without vote

Clearwater's proposed charter amendment to allow long-term leases of city
property is a wolf in sheep's clothing. Its true purpose is to allow the city to
enter into long-term leases (99 years) with developers who want to redevelop
downtown or the city marina without getting voter approval.

It is one more attempt by City Manager Mike Roberto to eliminate the checks and
balances of voter referendum in our charter. Nine months ago, at the request of
the Clearwater Country Club, I reviewed their lease and found that it was
renewable without the need for the charter amendment. It became clear to me that
the city's position on the club's lease was merely posturing, and I predicted
that the city would propose the charter amendment and cite the warm and fuzzy
Clearwater Country Club as the reason for the amendment.

The proposed amendment is not about the country club but about downtown
redevelopment. If the city can enter into 99-year leases without voter approval,
then it can accomplish downtown redevelopment without a referendum. Do you think
Mr. Roberto would go to all the trouble of a charter amendment for the country
club alone?

Voting no will not hurt the sheep, but voting yes will loose the wolves!

Patrick T. Maguire, Clearwater

Article about real-life drama offers real pleasure

Re: Dramatic discovery, story, Feb. 13.

In my opinion, the referenced story about Elden Smith is the finest and
best-written human interest feature in any major newspaper in the last 20 years.
It has all of the best qualities we look for in stories about real people and
real-life situations - but rarely find.

It has been my privilege to know Elden Smith as a person who has achieved much,
been a positive influence on many and is living out his later years in dignity
and honor. And he's a good guy!

David Joe Smith (not related), Clearwater

Kind, caring woman returns wallets but spurns reward

On Sunday evening I discovered that I had lost my wallet. I looked over my whole
house and could not find it. I finally remembered that the last time I used my
wallet was at Sandy's Restaurant on Indian Rocks Beach. I was quite upset
because I was there early in the morning and thought it was lost for good. I
really didn't know how to begin to go about replacing everything in the wallet -
driver's licenses, credit cards, etc.

On Monday morning, Wanda, from the restaurant, called to tell me she found my
wallet. She even took the time to call the motor vehicle bureau to get my
telephone number. When I picked up my wallet, she refused to take any kind of
reward. She said that she was just happy  she found it for me.

I think we are very fortunate to have a person like Wanda who really cares for
people and I would like her to know how much her honesty was appreciated. I have
been a resident of Florida for only two years and this is another example of the
very kind and wonderful people whom I have met since I have been here.

Fran Moore, Seminole

Scientology is only thing keeping downtown alive

Re: Clearwater is Scientologist's city, letter, Feb. 23.

Ho-hum. The daily "take a swipe at the Scientologists" letter.

The problem with Clearwater's downtown area is the same problem that plagues
other downtown areas all over Canada and the U.S. It has been allowed to
deteriorate.

If it wasn't for the Scientologists going about their business, the sidewalks
would curl up.

Deane Lang, Clearwater

Creative police leadership could have curbed traffic jam

I had the misfortune to be in a traffic jam recently on U.S. 19 because of a
traffic accident just beyond Enterprise Road. The Clearwater police had blocked
all of the southbound lanes and were turning everyone onto a one-lane street by
a Mexican restaurant. Cars on the frontage road complicated this.

There must have been eight or 10 officers standing around visiting with one
another. Cars were backed up bumper to bumper as far back as you could see.

It seems to me a roadblock should have been set up north of SR 580 (Main
Street), which is the last available turnoff before the jam, not just let more
cars pile up behind others. There were so many other little things they could
have done to get traffic off of U.S. 19, but to just stand around and shoot the
breeze is the stuff road rage is made of.

The Clearwater police had the manpower, the equipment and the time to ease the
traffic situation. What they lacked was creative leadership. And we, the public,
are to depend on them in a real emergency? I don't think so!

I do not want this to sound like a cheap shot at the Clearwater police, but
there was so much they could have done. And then they want to double speeding
fines. Come on!

Ron Rarick, Odessa

Trees bring beauty,

shade - and customers

I have noticed new trees in parking lots of businesses along Gulf-to-Bay
Boulevard. Thank you! They are beautiful. And I can't wait to park in the shade.
Given the choice, I always shop where there is shade.

Early Sorenson, Clearwater


LOAD-DATE: March 2, 2000

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DISTRIBUTION: LARGO TIMES; SEMINOLE TIMES; CLEARWATER TIMES; NORTH PINELLAS
TIMES

TYPE: LETTER

                    Copyright 2000 Times Publishing Company


                              40 of 280 DOCUMENTS

                         St. Petersburg Times (Florida)

              August 02, 2000, Wednesday, 0 South Pinellas Edition

Hiring illegals creates enslavement

BYLINE: BILL MAXWELL

SECTION: EDITORIAL; COLUMNS; Pg. 15A

LENGTH: 744 words

DATELINE: GAINESVILLE



It was a scene made for the movies: Last Thursday in Gainesville, armored
personnel carriers deployed sharpshooters at 1707 Williston Road, home of Chang
Qin Zheng, his wife Jin Shuang Zheng and his brother Zheng Zheng.

When the action stopped, federal and local authorities had arrested the Zhengs,
shackled and hauled away as many as 20 other Asian and Hispanic illegal aliens.
Several others ran away. After the initial arrests, more than 30 other workers
remained in the house, which has barracks-style facilities - cots, pallets and
bunk beds.

The Zhengs, charged with conspiracy to harbor illegal aliens for commercial
gain, own two local restaurants - China Supper Buffet at 1900 SW 3th St., and
the New China restaurant at 3423 Archer Road. Using vans and cars, the Zhengs
would ferry their workers to and from the restaurants to keep them out of public
view.

One man said that he and others were virtual slaves, working 12 to 14 hours a
day, seven days a week - for inadequate pay and no benefits.

They live in fear of law enforcement and their ruthless employers driven by the
profit motive. Both restaurants, by the way, were back in business the next day.

Several immigration officials I spoke with said that the Gainesville case is
typical of many others elsewhere, and it shows the length to which owners will
go to get reliable scut-work employees. The case also shows that immigration
officials cannot rein in the illegal trafficking of human cargo until employers
cooperate.

"Unfortunately, from knowing other federal investigations around the country,
this is clearly a growing problem," said Michael Patterson, U.S. Attorney for
the Northern District of Florida. "One can suspect that, like other criminal
enterprises, when they reach communities in North Florida, they are probably
everywhere."

The Immigration and Naturalization Service estimates that 5-million undocumented
workers reside in the United States, with the hospitality industry employing
many in an underworld that cheats taxpayers and potential native workers.
Florida, which has 350,000 illegal aliens, trails only California with 2-million
and Texas with 700,000.

As smugglers, called snakeheads, in Mexico, Eastern Europe and China become
bolder, their contacts in this country seem more willing to flout INS scrutiny.
Zheng Zheng, one of the owners of the Gainesville restaurants, is himself an
illegal alien. In 1997, INS authorities in New York ordered him deported.

Hotel and restaurant owners argue that because so many Americans refuse to work
in the industry, they must seek employees abroad. On any given day, according to
the Gulf Beaches of Tampa Bay Chamber of Commerce, as many as 1,000 jobs in
hotels and restaurants go unfilled. Employers are desperate, and some will break
the law to stay in business.

Some Tampa Bay area hoteliers say that they can find workers in the former
Soviet Union more easily than here. Indeed, help wanted signs dot the area,
especially businesses along Gulf Boulevard in Pinellas. Last year, the St. Pete
Beach Commission passed a measure supporting a plan to recruit employees from
abroad.

The St. Petersburg Times reported last year that INS arrested 47 illegal aliens,
all Eastern Europeans, working in local hotels. During the arrests, officials
discovered an elaborate scheme to hire illegal immigrants and conceal their
identities with false documents.

Hoteliers played dumb, of course.

Hospitality industry officials are a tight-lipped bunch because huge sums of
money are involved. The wrong move at the wrong time could shut down a
profitable establishment. The Gainesville raids were the result of a seven-month
investigation prompted by an anonymous letter to the Gainesville FBI. INS and
FBI officials staked out the Zhengs' house and sent agents to eat in the two
restaurants to verify the identities of the workers.

Authorities say that they do not know if other Chinese restaurants in
Gainesville employ illegal aliens, but they are investigating.

Hiring illegals may save hoteliers and restaurateurs money in the short run. But
it breaks the law and perpetuates the enslavement of tens of thousands of
people, many of them children, who could easily obtain documents that permit
them to work legally.

And that is the rub: Legal workers are irksome. They demand higher wages and
benefits, such as insurance, and amenities - weekends off, vacation - the rest
of America takes for granted.


LOAD-DATE: August 2, 2000

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: COLUMN

                    Copyright 2000 Times Publishing Company


                              41 of 280 DOCUMENTS

                         St. Petersburg Times (Florida)

              August 8, 1998, Saturday, 4 State / Suncoast Edition

Canadian suspected of smuggling Cubans to U.S.

SOURCE: Compiled from Times Wires

SECTION: METRO & STATE; AROUND THE STATE; Pg. 4B

LENGTH: 108 words

DATELINE: MIAMI



Authorities believe a Canadian citizen found driving through the Florida Keys
with seven Cubans smuggled the immigrants into the country in exchange for
cash.

Border Patrol agents believe David Butler, a retiree from Ontario who is
married to a Cuban, charged the immigrants $ 5,000 each to help them into the
country, the Miami Herald reported Friday.

Butler told authorities he first met the Cubans in a Marathon restaurant
parking lot and offered them a ride to Miami.

But deputies found $ 2,000 in cash in his pocket and charts of Cuba and a
global positioning device in his trunk.

- Compiled from Times wires.

LOAD-DATE: August 10, 1998

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: DIGEST

                    Copyright 1998 Times Publishing Company


                              42 of 280 DOCUMENTS

                         St. Petersburg Times (Florida)

                July 25, 1999, Sunday, 0 South Pinellas Edition

Illegal Chinese immigrants surface off coast

BYLINE: JIM FOX

SECTION: NATIONAL; THE CANADA REPORT; Pg. 25A

LENGTH: 817 words



A tip leads police to a rusty ship carrying 122 men and women.

Canada has become the promised land for many illegal Chinese immigrants, police
said after human cargo was discovered Tuesday on a ship off the coast of British
Columbia.

The 104 men and 18 women spent 38 days at sea without proper sanitation on a
rusty ship that left the Chinese city of Fuzhou.

Police received a tip about boatloads of Chinese immigrants on their way to
Canada's west coast.

Previously, illegal immigrants would enter Canada and make their way to New York
City. Now, about half end up staying in the country, said Jim Fisher of the
Royal Canadian Mounted Police.

The new arrivals are being housed at Canadian Forces Base Esquimalt where they
have been questioned and given health examinations.

"If they don't claim refugee status, then we're looking at deportation," said
Lois Reimer, of the Citizenship and Immigration department. But it could take
months or years before claims are resolved for those seeking to remain in
Canada, she said.

Police said some of the immigrants paid $ 40,000 for their passage to Canada.
Those unable to pay were expected to work off their debt to smugglers through
indenture and slavery, said RCMP Cpl. Ray Legare.

Two people who tried to make it to shore in a makeshift raft were apprehended by
off-duty Washington state police officers on a fishing trip.

Quebec nurses to end

four-week walkout

Quebec's 47,500 striking nurses announced Saturday they would end a four-week
walkout while they seek mediation in their dispute.

Jennie Skene, president of the Quebec Federation of Nurses, said after a two-day
meeting of 600 union delegates in Laval, Quebec, that nurses would return to
work immediately while union leaders consult with outside parties and
re-evaluate their options.

The nurses, who walked off the job on June 26, say they're among the most poorly
paid in Canada with a starting salary of $ 30,340.

They are seeking an immediate raise of 10 percent to put them on par with other
health care professionals in the province, plus a wage increase of 6 percent
over two years. The government has refused to budge from its offer of 5 percent
over three years.

In brief

Canada's crime rate fell in 1998 for the seventh year, Statistics Canada
reported last week. The rate was 4.1 percent lower overall while murders fell by
31 to 555 cases last year. The Yukon, Prince Edward Island and Ontario had the
biggest drop in crimes, while Manitoba and Saskatchewan had the highest rates of
violent crime.

Canadian Pacific Ltd. is cutting 1,900 jobs from its railway division to reduce
costs and become more competitive. When the cutback is completed by the end of
next year, the Calgary-based company will have 17,000 employees. Last year
Canadian National Railways cut 3,000 jobs.

Two memorials, to be erected near where 229 people were killed in the Swissair
plane crash off Nova Scotia's coast last September, will include the airline's
name and flight number. Relatives of the victims asked that the information be
included after it was earlier decided not to mention the airline, flight number
or that the victims had died in an aviation disaster.

Facts & figures

Canada's dollar fell to 66.33 cents U.S. Friday over concerns about possible
U.S. interest rate increases. The U.S. dollar was $ 1.5076 Canadian before
exchange fees.

The Bank of Canada key interest rate is 4.75 percent. The prime lending rate is
6.25 percent.

Canadian stock markets were lower, with the Toronto Stock Exchange 300 Index at
7,069 points Friday. Montreal was 3,808 points, Alberta 2,583 points and
Vancouver 423 points.

Lotto 6-49: (Wednesday) 4, 7, 12, 17, 24 and 32; bonus 21. (July 17) 8, 14, 39,
41, 42 and 49; bonus 13. (July 14) 5, 9, 12, 42, 48 and 49; bonus 36.

Regional briefs

British Columbia Premier Glen Clark said the future of his leadership will be
decided at a meeting of his New Democratic Party next spring. Finance Minister
Joy MacPhail, Women's Equality Minister Sue Hammell and parliamentary secretary
Graeme Bowbrick quit last week but refused to blame Clark, who has come under
attack by party members.

Bitterness was injected in the Nova Scotia provincial election Friday as a
Halifax newspaper received an anonymous tip that New Democratic Leader Robert
Chisholm, 41, was convicted 22 years ago of drunken driving. Chisholm earlier
denied having a criminal record. Polls show the New Democrats and Conservatives
tied for the lead, with the governing Liberals in third place, ahead of
Tuesday's vote.

A shortage of contracts has resulted in New Brunswick's Saint John Shipyard
laying off 230 workers. The layoffs prompted renewed calls for the federal
government to enact a national shipbuilding policy to help the industry, which
has been hard hit by U.S. competitors.

- Information from the Associated Press was used in this report.


LOAD-DATE: July 26, 1999

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                    Copyright 1999 Times Publishing Company


                              43 of 280 DOCUMENTS

                         St. Petersburg Times (Florida)

              February 26, 1999, Friday, 0 South Pinellas Edition

INS chief didn't make this mess

SECTION: EDITORIAL; EDITORIALS; Pg. 18A

LENGTH: 505 words



Hoping to silence congressional critics who have been clamoring for her removal,
Immigration and Naturalization Service chief Doris Meissner has backed away from
a controversial plan to alleviate overcrowding at the agency's detention
centers. Meissner had hinted she was planning to release some non-violent
criminal detainees back into the community while they await deportation, causing
a near-hysterical overreaction by House Republicans Lamar Smith of Texas and
Elton Gallegly of California, who last week called for Meissner's resignation.

Meissner's plan was a desperate and potentially risky remedy for a problem that
defies easy solutions. But Smith, Gallegly and other House Republicans have no
one but themselves to blame for the failure of INS to resolve its worsening
housing shortage.

It was Congress, not Meissner, that created the nightmare that INS is now
confronting  when it forced the agency to start rounding up and deporting
criminal immigrants in droves under the immigration reform of 1996.

It was Congress, not Meissner, that exacerbated the agency's troubles by failing
to provide enough money for beds and facilities to house the thousands of new
immigrants entering the system.

And it should be Congress, not Meissner, that fixes the mess by changing the
broad and inflexible law that never should have passed in the first place.

Burdened by the sweeping changes in federal immigration law that forced the INS
to house more inmates than its facilities could possibly handle, Meissner has
been pleading with Congress to provide the resources needed to alleviate the
pressure.

Lawmakers gave the INS funds that allowed it to add about 7,000 beds, and the
Clinton administration has included money for 3,000 more in a supplemental
budget request. Even if Congress approves the additional funds, the housing
crunch will continue. So many crimes are now considered deportable offenses that
even immigrants who served time - in some cases decades ago - for minor
violations are now subject to detention and arbitrary deportation.

Some of the immigrants behind bars today are not even criminals. They are asylum
seekers under administrative detention who should not be subject to criminal
treatment. Yet under the new law, they have been shipped off to detention
centers and local jails where they are forced to live among convicted criminals.

No one will argue that the United States needs tough immigration laws. In order
to maintain the credibility of the U.S. immigration system and the integrity of
our borders, the nation needs a system that prevents hardened criminals from
entering the country and punishes those who commit crimes while they are here.

But missing from our current immigration policy is any sense of fairness or
proportion. The law is arbitrary, and it has been applied too harshly.
Meissner's desperate maneuver was further evidence that this immigration
insanity has gone on long enough. Rather than call for her resignation, Congress
should just change the law.


LOAD-DATE: February 26, 1999

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: EDITORIAL

                    Copyright 1999 Times Publishing Company


                              44 of 280 DOCUMENTS

                         St. Petersburg Times (Florida)

                             July 16, 1996, Tuesday

Immigrant detainees removed from jail

BYLINE: IAN JAMES

SECTION: CITRUS TIMES; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 342 words

DATELINE: LECANTO



With little explanation, federal immigration officials on Thursday ordered  all
23 immigrant detainees at the Citrus County Jail onto a bus and took them  to a
correctional facility in Panama City.

The detainees, mostly Cuban-born offenders held by the U.S. Immigration and
Naturalization Service, left the jail handcuffed and shackled. No other INS
detainees have been sent to replace them.

Randy Payne, the jail's assistant warden, said the INS lieutenant who  picked up
the inmates gave no reason for the transfer.

"It was just time for them to move on," Payne said. "They routinely move  them."

Since the county started accepting INS detainees in October for $ 46 a head  per
day, foreign-born inmates have come and gone. During that period, though,  the
detainees were never taken away all at once.

INS spokesman Lemar Wooley said Monday that he did not know when or if  other
detainees would be sent.

"That's just a shuffling around because of space requirements," Wooley  said.

Before the detainees left Thursday, Payne said, the jail held 276 inmates.
After their departure Monday, inmates numbered 261.

In October, when county officials agreed to hold as many as 40 INS  detainees at
the jail, they planned to use the money raised to help pay off  remaining debt
on the 400-bed jail. Since then, the county also has decided to  open the jail's
doors to dozens of inmates from Osceola County, some of whom  have been held on
serious felony charges, including rape, robbery and murder.

County Commissioner Vicki Phillips said she is still interested in filling  up
empty beds for financial reasons. "The space needs to be utilized to  generate
revenue," she said.

The INS' reasons for its abrupt shift appear unknown, even to the detainees  who
were shuttled away, said Alberto Ruiz, one of the inmates, who was later  taken
to a Manatee County jail.

"They didn't give us no reason at all," he said in a telephone call from  the
jail.  - Information from Times files was used in this report.

LOAD-DATE: July 17, 1996

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DISTRIBUTION: CITRUS TIMES; CITY & STATE; METRO & STATE

                    Copyright 1996 Times Publishing Company


                              45 of 280 DOCUMENTS

                         St. Petersburg Times (Florida)

             September 15, 1998, Tuesday, 0 South Pinellas Edition

Treat detained immigrants justly

SECTION: EDITORIAL; EDITORIALS; Pg. 12A

LENGTH: 531 words



Faced with an urgent shortage of space at its detention centers, the
Immigration and Naturalization Service has chosen an expedient but dangerous
solution to the housing crunch: shipping thousands of immigrants and political
refugees to local jails while their cases are resolved. As a new report by the
international non-profit group Human Rights Watch warns, the practice violates
internationally recognized standards for humane treatment and subjects
non-criminal immigrants to physical abuse and grossly substandard conditions  of
confinement.

Researchers for the organization visited 14 jails in seven states,  including
Florida, and communicated with hundreds of the nearly 15,000  immigrants who are
currently detained in jails throughout the country. In a  blistering 84-page
report of its findings, the group documented numerous cases  in which
corrections officers violated immigrants' civil rights and denied  them adequate
medical care.

In one of the most disturbing cases currently under investigation,  detainees at
the Jackson County jail reported in July that corrections  officers shackled
them to concrete slabs and shocked them with electrified  batons. Elsewhere in
Florida, asylum seekers, many of them Cuban, reported  lengthy incarcerations in
criminal facilities, where they were held without  access to attorneys or INS
officials familiar with their cases.

The stories put a human face on some of the devastating effects of the 1996
changes in immigration law that greatly expanded the categories of immigrants
who must be detained upon entry to the United States or deported for crimes
committed after their arrival. The cases also shine a glaring light on the  need
for the INS to take immediate steps to ensure that immigrants detained in  local
jails are afforded the same rights as those housed in facilities under  federal
oversight.

Human Rights Watch urges the INS to require local jails to separate
non-criminal immigrants from the general inmate population. It is a reasonable
recommendation that could be carried out easily and inexpensively. It also
makes sense from a legal standpoint. Immigrants held by the INS are under an
administrative form of detention and should not be subject to criminal
treatment, or forced to live among people accused or convicted of committing
crimes.

The group also suggests that the INS explore non-custodial alternatives to
detention for all asylum seekers, who are protected under international  refugee
laws and deserve more humane treatment than they have received under  new
immigration laws. And it reminds the INS that it has a moral and ethical  duty
to hold local jails accountable for meeting the basic needs of immigrants
entrusted to their care.

Though Congress allocated money to expand federal detention centers when it
enacted the immigration reform law two years ago, the funds already have been
spread thin. With jail space also filling up fast, lawmakers ought to consider
the most rational solution to the problem: Change the law that has resulted in
the incarceration of thousands of people who have committed no crime.

LOAD-DATE: September 16, 1998

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: EDITORIAL

                    Copyright 1998 Times Publishing Company


                              46 of 280 DOCUMENTS

                         St. Petersburg Times (Florida)

             December 31, 1998, Thursday, 0 South Pinellas Edition

Sending immigrants to jail

SECTION: EDITORIAL; EDITORIALS; Pg. 16A

LENGTH: 521 words



For the second time in less than six months, immigrants detained at a Florida
county jail while awaiting deportation have made sworn statements against guards
they say brutalized them and forced them to live in subhuman conditions. How
many times will the Immigration and Naturalization Service have to hear stories
of alleged jail house horrors before it acts to ensure immigrants detained in
local jails are afforded the same rights and protections as those housed in
facilities under federal oversight?   In the most recent case, immigrants
detained at the Port Manatee Central Jail in Palmetto say they were violently
abused by sheriff's deputies who were attempting to stop a protest over poor
conditions and treatment at the jail. In affidavits given to attorneys for the
Miami-based Florida Immigrant Advocacy Center, the inmates allege they were
beaten, stripped naked, dragged through human waste and left for 20 hours in
flooded cells after a September disturbance at the facility.   Jail officials
vehemently dispute the allegations, which are being investigated by the FBI.
They say officers merely were acting to put down a riot and protect themselves
from inmates' aggression. But the inmates' complaints bear a disturbing
similarity to allegations made by INS detainees at a county jail in the Florida
Panhandle, who earlier this year accused guards of beating them, shackling them
to concrete slabs and shocking them with electrified batons.   No matter what
the outcome of the two investigations, ample evidence exists that housing
immigrants in county jails is bad policy. A blistering report by Human Rights
Watch earlier this year pointed out that the practice violates internationally
recognized standards for humane treatment. Researchers for the international
non-profit group visited more than a dozen jails in seven states, including
Florida, where they documented numerous cases in which corrections officers
violated prisoners' civil rights and forced them to live in substandard
conditions.   Detainees at the Port Manatee facility were non-citizen immigrants
being held pending deportation hearings after serving sentences on felony
convictions. But many immigrants now housed at local jails are not criminals.
Some are asylum seekers under administrative detention who should not be subject
to criminal treatment or shipped off to jails where they are forced to live
among convicted criminals.   Yet that has been the INS's solution to the severe
housing shortage at its federal detention centers. Since sweeping changes in
federal immigration laws took effect in 1996, the INS has been required to
detain more inmates than its facilities are equipped to handle. At best, it is
an expedient and potentially dangerous solution to a problem that will only
worsen unless Congress changes the law that has caused inmate detentions to
balloon. Until that happens, the INS has a moral and legal responsibility to
hold local jails accountable for the safety of inmates entrusted to their care.
If it can't, the agency should come up with another way to ease its housing
crunch.

LOAD-DATE: December 31, 1998

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: EDITORIAL

                    Copyright 1998 Times Publishing Company


                              47 of 280 DOCUMENTS

                         St. Petersburg Times (Florida)

                             May 20, 1999, Thursday

24-year-old accused of raping 13-year-old

SECTION: HERNANDO TIMES; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 347 words

DATELINE: BROOKSVILLE



The man, who told police he was in the country illegally, faces charges of
sexual battery and false imprisonment.

An illegal immigrant from Mexico is accused of raping a 13-year-old girl Tuesday
night at his house at 90 Ederington Drive.

Lucio Estrada, 24, faces one count each of sexual battery and false
imprisonment, both felonies, according to a Brooksville police report. He was
being held Wednesday afternoon at the Hernando County Jail in lieu of $ 15,000
bail.

The incident began about 10:15 p.m. as the girl walked past the suspect's house.
Authorities were not releasing the girl's name because of the nature of the
crime.

A man sitting on the porch asked the girl for a cigarette. When she went to give
him one, he dragged her into the house and shut the door, the report said.

When the girl tried to fight off an attack, the 190-pound man pinned her to the
floor and forced her to have sex, the report said.

Later, he gave her $ 20 and told her not to tell anyone what happened, the
report said. Authorities were alerted soon after she left the house.

"It's not clear if she had ever seen him before or had any contact with him,"
Capt. Ray Schumacher said.

The girl's mother, who lives in Brooksville, was taken into custody for
psychological evaluation a few days ago after she tried to commit suicide,
Schumacher said. The girl was supposed to be turned over to her father, who
lives outside the county.

"We're still looking into why she was back in Brooksville," Schumacher said.

The report said Estrada told police he had consensual sex with the girl.

Florida law states that consensual sex between an adult and a 13-year-old is a
felony, although less severe than non-consensual sex between the same people.
Brooksville had no reported rapes in 1998, according to Florida Department of
Law Enforcement statistics. The county had 72 reports last year.

Estrada, who told the arresting deputy that he was in the country illegally, has
no criminal record in Hernando County.

"'This appears to be an isolated incident," Schumacher said.


LOAD-DATE: May 20, 1999

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DISTRIBUTION: HERNANDO TIMES

                    Copyright 1999 Times Publishing Company


                              48 of 280 DOCUMENTS

                         St. Petersburg Times (Florida)

                  June 09, 2000, Friday, 2 Late Tampa Edition

Arrests of 28 dry up source of phony IDs

BYLINE: LARRY DOUGHERTY

SECTION: TAMPA & STATE; Pg. 1B

LENGTH: 478 words

DATELINE: TAMPA



The word was out. Illegal aliens who needed a fake ID should go to a certain
house in Wimauma to see the man nicknamed "El Tigre," federal authorities said
Thursday.

Counterfeit Social Security and resident alien cards could be had for $ 40 to $
70 apiece, the authorities said, once you posed for a Polaroid snapshot. A
complete package, which includes both cards and a Mexican driver's license, were
available for $ 120.

The fake papers allowed illegal aliens, many from Mexico, to cobble together a
persona that would let them work and receive medical benefits in the United
States, the authorities said.

As part of an investigation into false IDs in south Hillsborough County, 28
people were arrested Wednesday night by state and federal authorities. The
suspects were found with thousands of counterfeit ID cards, $ 8,000 in cash and
cocaine, officials said.

Investigators wouldn't guess how many fake IDs had passed into circulation. But
some of the IDs have been confiscated in St. Petersburg, and Hillsborough
deputies say they routinely encounter fake IDs when questioning people in south
Hillsborough County.

Even as Wednesday night's raids took place, illegal aliens arrived at houses in
Wimauma seeking fake IDs, officials said.

At a news conference announcing the arrests, a Secret Service official, Special
Agent in Charge Jim Zloto, said investigators wanted to send a message that
aliens "should make sure they obtain legal documents, as opposed to going to
fake ID manufacturers."

Twenty-two people who were arrested face state charges of possessing false IDs,
officials said.

Six Wimauma residents who police said were involved in the manufacture of fake
IDs are facing federal charges.

They are 23-year-old Manuel "El Tigre" Beltran, 17-year-old Abraham Ortiz,
20-year-old Nestor Perez Moralez, 20-year-old Francisco Santiago, 21-year-old
Maria del Carmen Ramirez and 33-year-old Amarildo Gonzalez Martinez. Perez,
Ortiz and Gonzalez also face cocaine charges.

Beltran is the brother of 33-year-old Santiago Beltran, a Mexican national who
was charged in February with making and selling phony identification to hundreds
of illegal immigrants.

One of Santiago Beltran's neighbors, in Wimauma, counted 160 vehicles arriving
at Beltran's residence in two days.

All six of the suspects facing federal charges were ordered detained Thursday,
pending a confirmation of their immigration status by the Immigration and
Naturalization Service. Some of them have identified themselves as Mexican
nationals in this country to pick tomatoes.

Besides the police agencies already mentioned, other agencies involved in the
three-month investigation were the Tampa Police Department, the Pinellas
Sheriff's Office and the Florida Department of Law Enforcement.

- Larry Dougherty can be reached at (813) 226-3337 or dougherty@sptimes.com.


LOAD-DATE: June 9, 2000

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DISTRIBUTION: TAMPA & STATE; CITY & STATE; METRO & STATE

GRAPHIC: BLACK AND WHITE PHOTO, KEN HELLE, (2); These counterfeit Social
Security identification cards and other false documents were taken as evidence
during the arrests in Wimauma. (ran Tampa & State); Hillsborough County
sheriff's Deputy Franklin Murray stands guard over evidence as Jim Zloto,
special agent in charge with the Secret Service, talks to reporters Thursday at
the Hillsborough County Sheriff's Special Operations Office. (ran Metro & State)

                    Copyright 2000 Times Publishing Company


                              49 of 280 DOCUMENTS

                         St. Petersburg Times (Florida)

               August 15, 2000, Tuesday, 0 South Pinellas Edition

Judge nixes move to halt jailed man's bail hearing

SECTION: CITY & STATE; Pg. 3B

LENGTH: 204 words



Government, she writes, can't deprive people, even deportable aliens, of rights.

A government move to stop a bail hearing for a Tampa man jailed three years on
secret evidence was rejected by a federal judge on Monday.

Government attorneys wanted U.S. District Judge Joan A. Lenard to delay the
hearing for Mazen Al-Najjar so they could appeal Lenard's own order. In May,
Lenard found that Al-Najjar should get another chance at bail because his
constitutional rights were violated in 1997 when secret evidence alleged he has
ties to Middle East terrorists.

Lenard did not bar the use of classified information to keep Al-Najjar in a
Bradenton jail. But Al-Najjar must be given enough information to defend
himself, she said.

Al-Najjar, a former University of South Florida teacher, was ordered deported in
1997 for overstaying a student visa. Immigration Judge R. Kevin McHugh denied
him bail while he appeals, finding him to be a threat to national security.
Monday, per Lenard's order, McHugh scheduled a bail rehearing for Aug. 29.

Lenard wrote that the public has a strong interest to make sure its government
does not deprive people, including deportable aliens, of due process under the
Constitution.


LOAD-DATE: August 16, 2000

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DISTRIBUTION: CITY & STATE; METRO & STATE; TAMPA & STATE

                    Copyright 2000 Times Publishing Company


                              50 of 280 DOCUMENTS

                         St. Petersburg Times (Florida)

              January 10, 1998, Saturday, 0 South Pinellas Edition

Some legal immigrants' back benefits restored

BYLINE: CAROL MARBIN MILLER

SECTION: CITY & STATE; Pg. 7B

LENGTH: 324 words



Enrique Reyna, a Cuban immigrant who lives near Miami, applied for disability
payments in 1994, when his high blood pressure, nervous problems and  depression
left him unable to work.

Reyna waited and waited, but the Social Security Administration never acted  on
his request. Then, on Aug. 22, 1996, Congress wiped out all benefits for
non-U.S. citizens. Reyna was told the action applied to him, even though he  had
sought assistance two years earlier.

This week, in a reversal of a decision immigration lawyers and advocates  for
the disabled had roundly criticized, the Social Security Administration  has
agreed to pay Reyna and about 8,500 other immigrants for benefits that had  been
withheld retroactively. The ruling partly resulted from a flurry of  lawsuits
against the agency nationally.

"It's like they pushed these people off a boat in the middle of a 1996  voyage,
and finally threw them a life jacket a year and a half later," said  Ray Cebula,
a Massachusetts lawyer who had sued the Social Security  Administration over the
policy.

About 100,000 Floridians who had entered this country legally but never  sought
citizenship were forbidden to receive Social Security disability  benefits in a
controversial provision of the 1996 Welfare Reform Law. A year  later, Congress
restored eligibility to most of the legal immigrants.

The Social Security Administration, however, had refused to pay immigrants  like
Reyna for benefits they would have received if their cases had been  handled
promptly, said Charles Elsesser, a lawyer with Florida Legal Services  in Miami.

In Reyna's case, the 61-year-old would have received about $ 484 per month,
money he says could have used for doctor visits and prescription drugs. Reyna
said he persuaded some doctors to treat him without payment, but he could not
afford most of the drugs they prescribed, including a blood pressure
medication.

LOAD-DATE: January 13, 1998

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DISTRIBUTION: CITY & STATE; METRO & STATE; TAMPA & STATE

                    Copyright 1998 Times Publishing Company


                              51 of 280 DOCUMENTS

                         St. Petersburg Times (Florida)

               April 21, 1998, Tuesday, 0 South Pinellas Edition

GOP is asked to restore immigrants' benefits

BYLINE: KATHERINE PFLEGER

SECTION: NATIONAL; Pg. 3A

LENGTH: 769 words

DATELINE: WASHINGTON



Advocates for impoverished immigrants tried to put pressure Monday on Senate
Republican leaders who are blocking passage of legislation that would restore
food stamps to a quarter-million legal immigrants.

Senate Majority Leader Trent Lott and Texas Sen. Phil Gramm are halting the
bill, saying they want to spend the food stamp money on a massive
transportation measure that includes money for hundreds of projects for House
and Senate lawmakers.

Gramm said restoring food stamps to the immigrants would unravel 1996  welfare
reform legislation that cut nearly 1-million immigrants from the rolls  last
year. But religious, anti-hunger and immigrant advocates complained  Monday that
immigrants are going without food.

"It makes absolutely no sense in a time that is considered to be one of  the
nation's most economically robust that a hunger crisis is emerging," said
Cecilia Munoz, vice president of the National Council of La Raza. "Congress  has
before it today a great opportunity to ensure that the crisis in our  immigrant
communities does not grow even greater."

"By placing a hold on this bill and targeting the money to pork-barrel  highway
projects, Sens. Lott and Gramm are saying they value pavement over  people,"
said Karen Narasaki, executive director of the National Asian  Pacific American
Legal Consortium.

Since the Welfare Reform Act of 1996 went into effect last August, almost
1-million people entering the country legally lost their food stamps, saving
the government more than $ 1.7-billion over five years.

President Clinton has sought to restore the benefits, and a House-Senate
conference committee agreed to go part of the way. The pending legislation
would reallocate $ 818-million over five years to supply 250,000 children,
elderly and disabled legal immigrants with the food subsidy.

In Florida, the state with the third-largest immigrant population and,
consequently, one of the hardest hit by welfare reform, 60,000 to 120,000
immigrants could regain a monthly food allowance of about $ 73, or 79 cents per

 meal.

Since last August, the state has picked up the tab for about 20,000 elderly
immigrants who were denied federal food stamps. But the program, which expires
in June, needs to berefinanced and maybe expanded.

"The problem is trying to fashion a program when (state representatives)  don't
know what is happening on a federal level," said Charles Elsesser, an  attorney
with Florida Legal Services.

Elsesser's group and dozens of others around the state have forged a
grass-roots campaign by collecting thousands of paper plates with notes  written
to Florida's representatives in Washington, imploring them to restore  the
necessary funds.

Rep. Mark Foley of West Palm Beach was presented with a stack of plates
recently, and Sen. Connie Mack should be receiving his in the mail, Elsesser
said. Both Republicans, as well as Democratic Sen. Bob Graham and Gov. Lawton
Chiles, are in favor of the measure to restore the food stamps.

Gramm, though, indicated Monday that he wasn't going to budge.

"The 1996 reform was a critically important step toward getting families  out of
the welfare trap," Gramm said. "Reversing the 1996 reform would  constitute a
new personal tragedy inflicted on the most vulnerable people  among us."

Earlier, he told reporters that he wants immigrants to find work. "I want
people to come to America with their sleeves rolled up, ready to go to work,
not to get food stamps," he said several weeks ago.

The bill's supporters emphasize that the legislation aids only those people
legally in the U.S. who cannot earn their own income.

Agriculture Secretary Dan Glickman urged Congress to pass the bill quickly  with
the food stamp aid intact. "That's the right thing to do with this pot  of
funds, which comes from savings in how we run the food stamp program," he  said
Monday. "It's only appropriate that a good chunk of this money go back  into
feeding hungry people."

In light of Gramm's position, the advocates speaking Monday held out hope  that
Lott would bring the bill to the Senate floor.

Privately, "Lott has indicated that he intends to move the bill," said  Diana
Aviv, executive director of the Council of Jewish Federations.  "Publicly, he's
saying something else."

Even so, the Senate does not have the final say. The bill containing the  food
stamp restoration also must pass the House, though little opposition is
expected.

- Information from the Associated Press and Cox Newspapers was used in this
report.

LOAD-DATE: April 22, 1998

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                    Copyright 1998 Times Publishing Company


                              52 of 280 DOCUMENTS

                         St. Petersburg Times (Florida)

              April 22, 1998, Wednesday, 0 South Pinellas Edition

Inalienable rights

SECTION: EDITORIAL; EDITORIALS; Pg. 16A

LENGTH: 615 words



It's time for the Justice Department to decide if the spirit of the U.S.
Constitution is more important than the letter of an ill-conceived law. The
government has been holding former University of South Florida Arabic teacher
Mazen Al-Najjar nearly a year without bail on the basis of secret evidence of
terrorist activity. If the government has proof, it should come forward and
show its hand; otherwise, he should be set free while appealing his  deportation
on an expired visa.

Gouging the due process guarantees of the Constitution for immigrants is  not an
acceptable way to fight terrorism. It gives up too much liberty for a
speculative increase in safety. Basic rights to fair and open hearings are not
reserved to those lucky enough to be born or naturalized American; they are
inalienable rights that should be granted all those who come under the
jurisdiction of our legal system.

Al-Najjar, an American-educated Palestinian who managed the World and Islam
Studies Enterprise at USF, was arrested last May and sits in the Immigration
and Naturalization Service's holding facility in the Manatee County Jail. He
was denied bail pending review of his deportation order because he was deemed  a
threat to national security. In a one-sentence ruling, an immigration judge
declared there was evidence tying him to the Islamic Jihad, a Middle Eastern
terrorist group.

Does the government have solid evidence of his terrorist activities? Who  knows?
The press doesn't know, the public doesn't know, even Al-Najjar doesn't  know.
The only ones who know are Al-Najjar's prosecutors and the judges  involved in
his deportation and bail denial. And they won't tell what they've  got.

Al-Najjar's case is not unique. Secret evidence is being used by the  Justice
Department to justify deportations and bail denials in at least 11  other cases.
Most notorious is the recent decision in California to deport a  group of men
who were originally invited to the United States because they  assisted the CIA
in planning a failed coup against Iraqi President Saddam  Hussein. The order of
deportation was based on secret evidence that the men  never got a chance to see
or rebut. If they are returned to Iraq, they face  certain death.

How can such a star chamber exist in our system? It shouldn't. The  Constitution
guarantees all those on American soil, even immigrants, the right  to know in
specific terms why they have been denied bail, the right to respond  to adverse
evidence and to confront accusers. None of these rights has been  respected in
the case of Al-Najjar.

Secret evidence is often faulty. Even if presented by well-intentioned
attorneys, informant testimony can be based on unfounded rumors. Another USF
professor, Sami Amin Al-Arian, who was suspended from teaching computer
engineering because of his INS troubles, was denied citizenship largely based
on "classified" evidence that turned out to be copies of newspaper articles.

A New York federal court will soon decide the constitutionality of the use  of
secret evidence in the denial of bail for another alleged Middle Eastern
terrorist sympathizer. Meanwhile, there is an appeal pending in Al-Najjar's
bail denial case, and a delegation of people concerned with his plight  recently
pleaded his case to officials at the Justice Department.

The department has a chance to serve justice by supporting Al-Najjar's  petition
for bail. It should also unilaterally cease the use of secret  evidence. Justice
Department lawyers don't have to wait for the courts to tell  them what they are
doing to these immigrants is wrong. They already know.

LOAD-DATE: April 22, 1998

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: EDITORIAL

                    Copyright 1998 Times Publishing Company


                              53 of 280 DOCUMENTS

                         St. Petersburg Times (Florida)

              April 22, 1998, Wednesday, 0 South Pinellas Edition

GOP fund raising bests Democrats nearly 2-1

SOURCE: Compiled from Times Wires

SECTION: NATIONAL; IN BRIEF; Pg. 3A

LENGTH: 601 words

DATELINE: WASHINGTON



The Republican National Committee outraised its Democratic counterpart by
nearly a ratio of 2-to-1 during the first three months of 1998.

   The RNC reported raising $ 8.4-million last month, bringing its total for
the year to $ 23.4-million, Federal Election Commission records show. The
Democratic National Committee on April 9 said it had raised $ 12.4-million
during the same period.

Soft money, the unregulated sums used for party-building activities,  accounted
for $ 4-million of the RNC money.

The RNC reported a debt of $ 500,000, while the DNC's debt at the end of  March
was $ 9.3-million.

The most generous RNC donor was Conseco insurance company and its chairman,
Stephen Hilbert - they gave $ 400,000. Conseco bought the Green Tree lending
firm this month.

The merger would benefit from pending legislation that would allow banks,
insurance firms and securities brokers to enter each other's businesses.

INS unveils card

for legal immigrants

   WASHINGTON - The Immigration and Naturalization Service, seeking to make it
tougher for counterfeiters, debuted a high-tech green card for legal  immigrants
who live permanently in the United States.

The identification document, which features holograms and microdot  portraits of
all the presidents, "raises the ante for counterfeiters," said  Mary Ann Wyrsch,
INS deputy commissioner.

Rudimentary green cards sold on the street can go for as little as $ 35, or  as
much as $ 15,000 for a version crafted by international crime syndicates,
Wyrsch said.

The crackdown on illegal immigration has heightened demand for fake  documents,
in particular the green card, which verifies holders' rights to  live and work
in the United States.

The INS spent $ 38-million developing the card, using such technologies as  a
digital photo and an optical memory stripe with encrypted information that  can
be read by scanner. Unlike the paper versions, the new card is plastic,  similar
to a credit card.

U.S. considers risks,

benefits of cancer drugs

   WASHINGTON - Amid optimistic reports that two drugs might help prevent
breast cancer, the government is struggling to help women decide who should
start using the pills - or if the side effects are too risky.

For one of the drugs, the government had a stark message Tuesday: Despite
headlines trumpeting raloxifene, Eli Lilly's new osteoporosis drug, there is  no
good evidence yet that the medicine wards off breast cancer.

But a National Cancer Institute study did find that a related medicine,
tamoxifen, cuts the chances of breast cancer by 45 percent in certain women -
and the NCI said Tuesday it is preparing kits to help doctors target just  those
women whose potential benefit from the pills would outweigh the side  effects.

"The message very much is, each woman is different," said Dr. Richard  Klausner,
the institute's director. "There is no cut-and-dried formula" to  say which
woman needs the drug.

Also . . .

     Republicans on the House Budget Committee have crafted a tentative  $
1.7-trillion federal budget for 1999 calling for just over $ 100-billion in  new
savings over five years and elimination of the departments of Commerce and
Energy, panel members said.

 The Senate defeated an administration-backed plan that would have  supported $
22-million in school construction and repair through interest  subsidies,
despite President Clinton's call for Congress to give schools the  same kind of
financial support it gives highways.

LOAD-DATE: April 22, 1998

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: DIGEST

                    Copyright 1998 Times Publishing Company


                              54 of 280 DOCUMENTS

                         St. Petersburg Times (Florida)

               April 28, 1998, Tuesday, 0 South Pinellas Edition

Citizenship shouldn't be for sale

SECTION: EDITORIAL; EDITORIALS; Pg. 12A

LENGTH: 511 words



In our country, where almost everything's for sale for the right price, we  are
making it easy for rich foreigners to buy themselves a ticket to  citizenship,
and to cheat their new government in the process.

A recent audit by the Immigration and Naturalization Service details the
predictable corruption of the foreign investor program, established by  Congress
in 1990, through which $ 1-million will buy you a green card.

Immigrants from Pacific Rim countries in particular are bending the rules,  such
as they are, and gaining coveted permanent residency without putting up  the
necessary dough.

Rather than just tightening the loopholes, Congress should reconsider this
distasteful program in its entirety.

How mercenary can you get? American citizenship should not be up on the
international auction block, available to the highest bidder. Citizenship is
not a commodity; it's a privilege, one that is cheapened by being sold.

The immigrant-investor program was designed to compete with nations such as
Canada and Australia, which actively entice rich foreigners to their shores
with lax immigration rules. Congress also saw it as a way to bolster sagging
rural and inner-city economies.

To qualify, immigrant-investors must put $ 1-million into a new commercial
enterprise employing 10 or more people, or put $ 500,000 into an enterprise in
a rural or high unemployment area. After two years, this buys them a green
card, which is the first step to American citizenship.

But with the American economy humming along, with its record domestic
investment and unemployment rates, there is no reason to retain this
ledger-pass at our border.

Our government has an interest in granting residency to people who will not  be
a financial drain on the nation. But, as a matter of principle, that is  where
the balance sheet inquiry should end.

The immigrant-investor program makes up a very small portion - less than 1
percent - of American visas granted annually. But applications have surged in
the last two years. Consulting companies have started promoting ways to obtain
visas for foreign clients for a fraction of the legal investment requirements.

The New York Times reported that American consulate offices in Tokyo,  Taipei,
Guangzhou, Hong Kong and Seoul found dozens of suspicious visa  applications in
which the investor puts up $ 150,000 in cash and the rest in a  promissory note
that would be forgiven after a green card is obtained. Because  of these abuses,
the agency has put a moratorium on new visas that rely on  intricate and
questionable financial packages.

The INS can close the loopholes, stiffen the requirements and scrutinize  the
applications more thoroughly, but that would only marginally improve a  program
that trades more on American greed than American dreams.

Emma Lazarus' Statue of Liberty inscription calls out to the world's  "huddled
masses yearning to breathe free." Congress' mercenary law makes  breathing more
expensive than Lazarus ever envisioned.

LOAD-DATE: April 30, 1998

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: EDITORIAL

                    Copyright 1998 Times Publishing Company


                              55 of 280 DOCUMENTS

                         St. Petersburg Times (Florida)

               May 13, 1998, Wednesday, 0 South Pinellas Edition

Senate votes to restore immigrant food stamps

BYLINE: KATHERINE PFLEGER

SECTION: NATIONAL; Pg. 3A

LENGTH: 285 words



Immigrant advocates breathed a sigh of relief Tuesday when the Senate passed  a
bill to restore food stamps to a quarter-million legal immigrants.

"The Senate has agreed to do what is morally right," said Lisa Carr,
legislative liaison for Catholic Charities USA, "and that is feed the hungry
instead of pave roads."

In an overwhelming 92-8 vote, the Senate earmarked $ 818-million of the  $
1.9-billion bill to restart the food-stamp subsidy for immigrants who are
fleeing religious persecution, the elderly, disabled and children. Congress  cut
off 935,000 immigrants under the 1996 Welfare Reform Act.

The bill would restore benefits to 250,000 immigrants, including about  30,000
in Florida, as early as the fall.

"There is no new entitlement here," said Senate Agriculture Committee  Chairman
Richard Lugar, R-Ind. The government must provide "a safety net" to  "people of
these circumstances."

The bill, now on its way to the House, also sets aside funding for  agricultural
research, environmental protections and guarantees for crop  insurance.

Calling the bill a major step in overturning welfare reform, Sen. Phil  Gramm,
R-Texas, tried to kill it by sending it back to committee.

"This bill puts a great big neon sign at the border of the United States  of
America, "Come and get welfare,' " Gramm said during debate. "I want  people to
come with their sleeves rolled up, ready to go to work."

But the Senate voted 77-23 against Gramm's effort to send it back to  committee.

Florida Sens. Bob Graham, a Democrat, and Connie Mack, a Republican, voted
against Gramm's effort to kill the expansion, and then voted in favor of the
bill on final passage.

LOAD-DATE: May 14, 1998

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                    Copyright 1998 Times Publishing Company


                              56 of 280 DOCUMENTS

                         St. Petersburg Times (Florida)

                              June 7, 1998, Sunday

Rein in deportation excesses

SECTION: PERSPECTIVE; EDITORIAL; Pg. 2D

LENGTH: 422 words



With its agreement to hear the "L.A. 8" case, the U.S. Supreme Court last  week
signaled its readiness to review the congressional power-grab known as  the 1996
Illegal Immigration Reform and Immigrant Responsibility Act, which  barred
federal court review in deportation cases.

The justices should use the opportunity to send this message to Congress:  You
may neither penalize individuals for the company they keep nor hold the  courts
at bay when constitutional rights are at stake. Any ruling short of  that would
risk more than the deportation of one unpopular group of  noncitizens. It would
weaken the First Amendment for everyone.

The Supreme Court is only the latest stop for immigration officials, who  have
been trying for more than a decade to deport the L.A. 8, a group of seven
Palestinians and one Kenyan arrested in 1987 for raising money for the Popular
Front for the Liberation of Palestine, a terrorist organization. Violence was
never alleged, much less charged, against the individuals. For nine years, the
federal courts have turned the government down in every attempt to deport the
group based on nothing more than their beliefs.

Then Congress passed the immigration law - and tried to strip those courts  of
power to intervene until deportation proceedings are concluded. Immigration
officials hoped that would seal the fate of the L.A. 8 and other groups that
support the lawful purposes of terrorist organizations.

But last July, the 9th Circuit Court of Appeals again set them straight.
However despised the group or violent some of its goals, government may not
punish a member - citizen or not - for supporting a cause unless that
individual has furthered violence, the court held. What's more, courts must
remain open along the way to hear constitutional challenges to the  government's
action. Otherwise, "review delayed is review denied," the court  said.

The Clinton administration believes the court exercised jurisdiction it did  not
have, and wants the ruling overturned.

Many may dislike the L.A. 8 and what the Popular Front stands for. Others  may
not like federal judges and want them to butt out.

Ultimately, though, the high court should be guided by the First Amendment,  not
political or personal preferences or popularity contests. The First  Amendment
protects all who live on American soil from persecution based on  their beliefs.
And it rejects guilt by association - even when government sees  nothing wrong
with it.

LOAD-DATE: June 9, 1998

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: EDITORIAL

                    Copyright 1998 Times Publishing Company


                              57 of 280 DOCUMENTS

                         St. Petersburg Times (Florida)

               June 10, 1998, Wednesday, 0 South Pinellas Edition

Make an exception for Canadians

SECTION: EDITORIAL; EDITORIALS; Pg. 16A

LENGTH: 453 words



Canadians are getting increasingly angry about the hassles they encounter  when
they try to cross the border into the United States. Who could blame  them? They
have been forced to wait in maddeningly long lines. Border patrol  agents have
been giving them the third degree. And more than a few have been  treated like
criminals, even though they have done nothing wrong. Is this any  way to treat
our neighbors to the north?

The problem is a major flaw in the 1996 immigration reform law that ought  to be
fixed immediately. In an effort to catch illegal immigrants attempting  to sneak
into the country, Congress passed legislation that requires agents  with the
Immigration and Naturalization Service to subject travelers to  increased
scrutiny at American borders.

In the case of Canada, the heavy-handed new policy is causing major  headaches
along the border and damaging relations with a close ally and key  trading
partner.

INS agents who once allowed Canadians to enter this country with little  more
than a quick ID check are now questioning them extensively. Travelers  also are
being detained with more frequency, and some have been fingerprinted  and
arbitrarily banned from entering the United States for up to five years.
Business people, according to a recent report in the Wall Street Journal, are
bearing the brunt of the change, and some are threatening to take their
business elsewhere.

An exception to the law should have been carved out for Canada, which has  never
been a major source of illegal immigrants. Of the millions of illegal
immigrants believed to be living in the United States, only about 76,000 are
thought to be Canadian.

Lawmakers also should have anticipated the logistical nightmare the new  rules
would cause at the heavily trafficked crossings. There are roughly  140,000
border crossings between the United States and Canada each day - about  100 a
minute - and the new rules are turning that process into a  time-consuming
ordeal for Canadians, as well as for Americans attempting to  return home.

U.S. Senator Bob Graham of Florida has voiced legitimate concerns that the  new
rules will harm the state's $ 41-billion annual tourism industry. More than
116-million Canadians visit the United States each year, and more than
2-million spend winters in Florida and other Southern states.

Graham is the cosponsor of legislation that would would grant Canadians the
exemption from the new immigration rules they should have been given in the
first place. Members of Congress from several border states have introduced
similar measures. Lawmakers should support these efforts to repair their
legislative blunder.

LOAD-DATE: June 10, 1998

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: EDITORIAL

                    Copyright 1998 Times Publishing Company


                              58 of 280 DOCUMENTS

                         St. Petersburg Times (Florida)

               June 24, 1998, Wednesday, 0 South Pinellas Edition

Some immigrants to get food stamps

BYLINE: KATHERINE PFLEGER

SECTION: NATIONAL; Pg. 3A

LENGTH: 496 words

DATELINE: WASHINGTON



President Clinton signed an agriculture bill Tuesday that will restore food
stamp funding to a quarter-million legal immigrants. But their advocates are
hungry for more.

Along with providing crop insurance to farmers and funding agriculture
research, the $ 1.9-billion legislation will reinstate the food stamp program
for immigrants who are unable to work.

"Today we strengthen our bonds with those whose hold on the American dream  is
still fragile," the president told the audience at a Rose Garden ceremony,
adding that this partial retreat from the 1996 welfare overhaul "rights a
wrong."

Starting in November, benefits will be restored to 250,000 of the 935,000
immigrants who were in the country before Clinton signed the Welfare Reform  Act
in August 1996.

The restored benefits will cost $ 818-million over five years. Under the new
law, the federal subsidy will be made available to children, the elderly and
disabled immigrants, as well as CIA-trained Laotians who helped the United
States fight the Vietnam War.

Additionally, the bill extends from five to seven years the period  immigrants
who sought asylum here because of political, religious and other  types of
persecution can receive food stamps. Lawmakers granted the extension  because
these people have to wait five years to apply for citizenship and then  as long
as three years for their applications to be approved.

Clinton had asked the Republican-controlled Congress to restore most of the
food stamps benefits. But some Republicans objected, with Sen. Phil Gramm,
R-Texas, calling the bill a  "beacon" inviting immigrants to come to this
country and get on welfare.

In contrast, anti-hunger and immigrant advocates have said they won't be
satisfied until all the immigrants who were dropped from the rolls receive aid
again.

"We know that the intent of welfare reform was to move people from welfare  to
work, but we're finding that many (immigrants) who are working can't make  it,"
sad Lisa Carr, legislative liaison for Catholic Charities USA.

A Catholic Charities study recently reported that demand for emergency food
assistance from parishes was up an average of 26 percent between June 1997 and
January 1998.

In Florida, where the average subsidy is $ 73 a month, the federal  government
will restore benefits for roughly 33,000 of an estimated 86,000  immigrants.

This takes some pressure off the Legislature, which funded a stopgap  measure to
feed 20,000 elderly and disabled immigrants. About 13,000 children,  though,
have been without assistance altogether.

Ellen Vollinger, legal director for the Food Research and Action Center,  says
the anti-hunger community plans to find other vehicles to get the federal
government to pay for food stamps. In the meantime, she said, it's up to the
states and the soup kitchens.

"Problems don't go away," Vollinger said. "They just land on someone  else's
doorstep."

LOAD-DATE: June 24, 1998

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: BLACK AND WHITE PHOTO, Associated Press; Lawmakers applaud President
Bill Clinton after he signed the $ 1.9-billion agriculture bill Tuesday.

                    Copyright 1998 Times Publishing Company


                              59 of 280 DOCUMENTS

                         St. Petersburg Times (Florida)

                July 19, 1998, Sunday, 0 South Pinellas Edition

RETROACTIVE PUNISHMENT // After prison, immigrant pays again for criminal act

BYLINE: SUSAN TAYLOR MARTIN

SECTION: NATIONAL; CROSSING THE LINE; Pg. 10A

LENGTH: 1011 words

DATELINE: PANAMA CITY, Fla.



Soon after he turned 18, Hadi Alyasin made a bad mistake: He had consensual  sex
with a 12-year-old girl he thought was 16.

He got two years in prison - where by all accounts he was a model inmate -  and
finished his sentence in March.

But Alyasin is still in jail. He's not allowed to leave because the  Immigration
and Naturalization Service is planning to deport him - to Syria,  where he's
been only once and where he knows not a soul.

What's more, the crime for which he's being kicked out of this country  wasn't
even a deportable offense at the time he committed it.

"I can't blame anybody for what I did - it's my fault," says Alyasin, who  moved
from Lebanon to Pasco County with his parents when he was 12. "But I've  paid my
price and this is extra punishment."

Other parts of the 1996 Immigration Reform Act have drawn more attention,  but
perhaps the most disruptive and heart-breaking for immigrant families are  the
crime-related provisions like those that have ensnared Alyasin, 20.

In reaction to the World Trade Center bombing and other foreign-inspired
terrorist acts, Congress in 1996 expanded the list of "aggravated felonies"  -
those punishable by a year or more in prison - for which non-citizens can be
deported for 20 years.

In a move that critics regard as grossly unfair, it also made the law
retroactive so that even a legal permanent resident who went on to lead an
exemplary life could be deported for a crime committed long ago. Moreover, the
new law gave immigration judges no discretion to consider mitigating factors -
if you're legally deportable, out you go.

U.S. Rep. Lamar Smith, chief author of the 1996 act, says U.S. citizens  don't
want foreigners with criminal records living in their neighborhoods.

"If you give judges discretion, then you allow a loophole through which
thousand of hardened criminals can pour," he says.

Hadi's mother, Jako, is a naturalized U.S. citizen. She doesn't consider  her
son a hardened criminal. And she most certainly wants him back in the
neighborhood.

"I like my son to come home," she says, sitting in the living room of  their
small but tidy house in Holiday. "I need help. We are relying on Hadi  to come
home and help us."

She has a bad back, requires surgery and can't work. Hadi's father, Khaled,
earns about $ 1,100 a month as a groundskeeper at the Westin Innisbrook Resort.

 Innisbrook thinks so much of Khaled that it has offered his son a job if he is

 allowed to remain in this country.

Sick of Lebanon's seemingly endless civil war, the Alyasins decided in  1988 to
emigrate to the United States. Jakeo as able to obtain permanent U.S.  residency
status because she had a son by a previous marriage already living  here. She in
turn petitioned for permanent residency for her husband and Hadi.

The family settled in Pasco County where the elder Alyasin got a job in a  gas
station. Hadi entered school, and quickly became American in dress, manner  and
outlook.

"I liked the U.S. - it was like I had been living here a long time. It's  easy
to get around, lots of opportunities, they treated everybody the same."

 In 1992 the family moved to Minneapolis to be near relatives, and tried  to
make a go of it in the mini-mart business. They were robbed four times in  three
months, the last a 32-minute ordeal in which a robber held a gun to  Hadi's
head.

 The standoff ended peacefully - the robber fled, never to be caught - but  it
was enough to make the Alyasians move back to Florida. It also aggravated  the
already strained relations between Hadi, then 17, and his parents.

By his own admission, Hadi fell in with a rough crowd. He met a girl he  thought
was 16 and they had sex twice, by mutual consent.

She turned out to be 12. He was 18. He pleaded guilty to a lewd and  lascivious
act in the presence of a child and was sentenced to two years as a  youthful
offender.

At Brevard Correctional Institute, he rose at 2:30 a.m. to work in the  prison
kitchen, then studied in the afternoons for his high school equivalency
diploma. He passed the GED exam, as well as a course that teaches essential
skills.

But none of this mattered in the eyes of U.S. immigration law. He was a
convicted felon, so the Immigration and Naturalization Service began removal
proceedings. In March of last year, Hadi appeared before an immigration judge
in Orlando.

The judge asked him his first choice for deportation - Lebanon, where he  had
lived until age 12, or Syria, where his father was born and still holds
citizenship.

Lebanon, Hadi told him. "The only time I've been to Syria was to go to the
American Embassy to get a visa with my father."

Last March, Hadi completed his prison sentence and was released from state
custody. Because he was facing deportation, he was immediately transferred to  a
federal detention facility in Panama City.

"He has always been courteous and polite when dealing with staff  members,"
Chief of Security John Rochefort wrote in a letter of  recommendation. "He is a
determined young man with an ambition to return to  the private sector to resume
his life with his family."

 Hadi says he and his parents "are getting along better than ever. My  parents
have been there for me since Day 1. I need to get a job and start  getting back
on my feet so I can take care of them."

Lebanon has refused to accept Hadi because he is not a citizen. Ramon  Carrion,
his lawyer, said immigration officials indicated to him two weeks  that Syria is
willing to take him.

His parents worry what will become of their son, given that relations  between
Syria and the United States are sometimes frosty. Will he be thrown in  a Syrian
jail? Will he have to serve in the Syrian military? Will they they  ever see him
again?

Every Tuesday, immigration officers come here to put people like Hadi on  planes
for faraway places.

And "every Monday night," he says, "I go to sleep thinking, "Am I going  to wake
up and be deported for 20 years?' "

LOAD-DATE: July 21, 1998

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: COLOR PHOTO, TONI L. SANDYS; Khaled and Jako Alyasin; Hadi Alyasin

                    Copyright 1998 Times Publishing Company


                              60 of 280 DOCUMENTS

                         St. Petersburg Times (Florida)

                July 19, 1998, Sunday, 0 South Pinellas Edition

BUREACRATIC NIGHTMARE // Inspector cancels visa, rejects German visitor

BYLINE: Susan Taylor Martin

SECTION: NATIONAL; CROSSING THE LINE; Pg. 10A

LENGTH: 637 words

DATELINE: CLEARWATER



Heinrich Krauss, a professional chef, gets a bad taste in his mouth when he
recalls his run-in with a U.S. immigration officer at Vancouver last  September.

The inspector canceled his visa, refused to let him fly on to Tampa and  instead
sent him back to Germany - at a cost to Krauss of more than $ 2,500.

"He was not exactly rude, it was just, "I don't like you and I won't let  you
get into the United States again,' " says Krauss, 65.

Complaints like his have become more common since the 1996 Immigration  Reform
Act took effect 15 months ago. Though the law was designed to punish  those
trying to enter the country through fraud or misrepresentation, many  foreigners
with valid visas say they have been questioned and harassed to the  point they
will think twice about coming here again.

"It's very unfortunate that many bona fide visitors now have to go  through an
elaborate process to gain access to the United States for fear of  being
expelled for life or a long period of time," says John Ovink, a Tampa  lawyer
representing Krauss. "I'm afraid this may well have a chilling effect  on
tourism and foreign investments in the United States."

Krauss owns rental property in the Tampa Bay area and comes to check on it
every so often. Last Sept. 2, he flew from Germany to Tampa, then went to
Canada two weeks later to visit friends. He planned to fly back to Tampa on
Sept. 27, pick up some luggage he left here, and return home to Germany.

 At the airport in Vancouver, where the U.S. Immigration and  Naturalization
Service has an office, Krauss showed an inspector his German  passport and his
U.S. visitor's visa.

"The guy looks at it and then said, "I think you are too often backwards  and
forwards to the United States,' " Krauss recalls. He was pulled aside for  more
questioning.

 A second inspector also expressed the view that Krauss was coming to the
United States too frequently. "I said, "I have property,' and he said,  "You're
not supposed to have that.' "

  Krauss said he showed the inspector his airline tickets, indicating he  would
be in the Tampa area only a short time before returning to Germany, but  "he
didn't want to know anything about it." Instead, the inspector stamped
"CANCELLED" on Krauss' visa in big red letters.

"There was no explanation. To be perfectly honest, I was too intimidated  to
say, "Can I see your supervisor or somebody in authority?' "

 Barred from entering the United States, Krauss had to spend two nights in
Vancouver and buy a one-way, $ 2,000 ticket to Frankfurt. There he went to the
U.S. consulate and got an investor's visa instead of a visitor's visa. He paid
another $ 500 for a ticket to Tampa, this time via Philadelphia, where he had
no trouble with immigration officers when he entered last Oct. 7.

The immigration service says Krauss had the wrong kind of visa. "A  visitor's
visa is just as the name implies - it's only for individuals making  brief and
casual visits to the United States for business or pleasure," says  spokesman
Russell Bergeron. "Mr. Krauss was in fact working more as an  investor over a
much longer period of time."

In a sense, Krauss was lucky. The inspector could have decided he was
intentionally trying to misrepresent his reason for entry and barred him for
five years.

Still, the experience left Krauss feeling more angry than fortunate. He  doesn't
understand why the United States is so tough on people like himself, a
law-abiding citizen of a friendly nation who comes here, spends money and  helps
create jobs.

 "I don't think I looked as if I would have started, the minute I landed,
holding my hands open, saying, "Here I am, you have to support me.' I'm paying
more taxes here in the U.S. than in Germany."

LOAD-DATE: July 21, 1998

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: COLOR PHOTO; COLOR PHOTO, JOAN KADEL FENTON; Heinrich Krauss; U.S.
Immigration inspectors in Vancouver canceled Heinrich Krauss' visa without
explanation.

                    Copyright 1998 Times Publishing Company


                              61 of 280 DOCUMENTS

                         St. Petersburg Times (Florida)

                July 21, 1998, Tuesday, 0 South Pinellas Edition

Immigration deformed

SECTION: EDITORIAL; EDITORIALS; Pg. 8A

LENGTH: 546 words



Immigrants have always been easy targets for politicians. When Americans went
shopping for a scapegoat to blame for the economic uncertainty they were
feeling in the early 1990s, immigrants were the chosen target. Reflecting that
anger, congressional electioneering in 1994 was rife with anti-immigrant
sentiments.

Add to the mix the World Trade Center bombing, the explosion of TWA Flight  800
and the Oklahoma City bombing. Even though the last two events had nothing  to
do with immigrants, they all were lumped together with America's fear of
foreign terrorists.

Congress responded with the 1996 Immigration Reform and Immigrant
Responsibility Act. Its stated purpose was to reduce fraudulent entry to the
United States and ease the deportation of legal permanent residents and other
non-citizens who have criminal records. But the law created such severe
penalties for failing to negotiate the Immigration and Naturalization  Service's
bureaucratic maze, and vested so much power in petty bureaucrats,  that it has
heaped misery and devastation on many visitors and legal  residents.

Sunday, Times senior correspondent Susan Taylor Martin detailed the stories  of
some of our neighbors who have been caught in the web of this new law's
inflexible requirements and heavy sanctions.

Martin recounted heart-wrenching tales of legal resident parents and  children
who, despite having spent most of their lives here, are being  deported for the
slightest breach of protocol. She also described a new  officiousness at our
ports of entry, where tremendous unreviewable authority  has been given to
low-level immigration officials. Since the law took effect  in April 1997,
70,296 people have been barred from the country under a new  "expedited removal"

 process.

Expedited removal is a shorthand way of saying "stripped of due process."
Immigration officials are called on to make snap judgments about the
truthfulness of immigrants' statements and the legitimacy of their paperwork.
If the agent decides to deport, the new law denies visitors both legal counsel
and a hearing to challenge the decision. The agent is prosecutor, judge and
corrections officer rolled into one and may ban the visitor from re-entry into
the United States for five years.

Does this new process save us money on hearings? Yes. Does it keep us from
having to track down those immigrants accused of entering the country
fraudulently who then don't show up for their hearings? Yes. But it is
inherently unfair and subjects powerless people, some who have little or no
command of English, to the whims of one person's judgment.

It is also well documented that the law has been routinely used against
visitors who have no intention of overstaying their visas, who have been
browbeaten by INS agents to sign "confessions," kept in interrogation rooms  for
hours with no food or water and then summarily refused entry.

We don't know about most of the injustices that have resulted from the 1996
changes in our immigration laws. Most people harmed by the law have been
banished from our country and have no means of making their cases known.
However, the cases of abuse we do know about scream out for the law's reform.

LOAD-DATE: July 22, 1998

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: EDITORIAL

                    Copyright 1998 Times Publishing Company


                              62 of 280 DOCUMENTS

                         St. Petersburg Times (Florida)

               July 29, 1998, Wednesday, 0 South Pinellas Edition

Congress flooding INS with queries

BYLINE: SUSAN TAYLOR MARTIN

SECTION: NATIONAL; Pg. 2A

LENGTH: 845 words



When I talked to him the other day, I could tell Allen Erenbaum was gulping
down a mouthful of lunch at the same time he was trying to answer my  questions.

Erenbaum, director of congressional relations for the Immigration and
Naturalization Service, has been a busy man of late. Since it passed the 1996
Immigration Reform Act, Congress has been swamped with complaints about the  law
- and members in turn are peppering Erenbaum's staff with questions and
requests for assistance.

In 1992, there were 28,550 congressional inquiries; last year, the figure
soared to 46,500.

"The new law eliminated several forms of relief," Erenbaum notes.  "Individuals
who in the past might have gotten that relief are no longer  eligible for it and
are turning to members of Congress for help."

Spooked by the World Trade Center bombing and terrorist threats, Congress  has
made it harder for foreign nationals to enter the country and easier to  kick
out those who are here. Foreigners who run afoul of the law are hit with  a
double whammy: harsh penalties and almost no way to appeal them.

If, for example, you stay longer than your visa allows, you can be barred  from
re-entering for up to 10 years.

If you're suspected of trying to enter the country through fraud or
misrepresentation, you can be banned for five years without access to a lawyer
or a hearing - a process called "expedited removal."

And if you're a permanent legal resident who has been convicted of an
aggravated felony - even if the crime occurred long before the act took effect
- you can be banished for 20 years.

Expedited removal has caused the biggest hue and cry, especially among  civil
libertarians who consider it a denial of due process. But it has  generated
relatively few congressional inquiries - unless those who are  removed get
someone in the United States to take up their cause, no one is  going to hear
from them for at least five years.

On the other hand, Erenbaum gets many complaints about the crime-related
provisions of the 1996 law because deportation often means the breakup of
immigrant families.

Don't bother arguing that you've cleaned up your act or have strong ties to  the
community or that your kids need you for support - "the standards have  been
toughened and people who have committed crimes in the past are no longer
eligible for relief," Erenbaum says.

Sometimes, a plea to a member of Congress can help. In the past two weeks  I've
written a lot about a Treasure Island couple who faced a 10-year  banishment
from the United States because of a paperwork mix-up. The wife, a  citizen of
India, got at least a month's reprieve, thanks in part to extensive  publicity
and the involvement of U.S. Rep. C.W. Bill Young.

At other times, a foreigner's appeal to a U.S. lawmaker can backfire,
especially if it appears the person has started to act like a U.S. citizen
without ever having gone through the complex naturalization process.

U.S. consulates overseas, which have the power to grant or deny visas,  might
find it "particularly galling that a (foreigner) who is not a voter and  who is
essentially a guest on a temporary basis would challenge their decision  by
bringing it up to an elected congressman," says Ramon Carrion, a  Clearwater
immigration lawyer.

At the very time the press and public have more and more questions about  our
immigration laws, Congress is cutting back on the number of INS employees  who
can supply the answers. Over the past three years, the agency's public  affairs
and congressional relations staff has dwindled from a total of 60 to  just 43.

Still, mindful of who controls the purse strings, Erenbaum's office tries  to
answer all inquiries from Capitol Hill within 30 days. "We're not there  yet,"
he says, "but we're really focusing on doing it because we know how  critical it
is to be responsive."



   UPDATE:  King Hussein of Jordan does have lymphoma, but told his countrymen
and women Tuesday night that it is a highly treatable form of cancer that
should allow full recovery.

In a message televised from his suite at the Mayo Clinic in Rochester,  Minn., a
cheerful-looking king said his general condition was "excellent and  the mind is
clear and the morale high."

Hussein, 62, will require six chemotherapy treatments, each three weeks  long,
but said he hopes to return soon to Amman.

The king, who has had several serious medical problems since 1992, has been
unusually open about his cancer, which is still considered a taboo topic in  his
conservative country. His health is of great concern not just to  Jordanians,
whom he has ruled for 45 years, but to the United States and  Israel, which have
long regarded him as one of the most influential and  enlightened leaders in the
Middle East.

In a portent of what might happen in the event of the king's death or  prolonged
incapacitation, Syria has started to verbally attack Jordan for its  ties with
Israel, the Tel Aviv daily Ha'aretz reports.

LOAD-DATE: July 29, 1998

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: COLUMN

                    Copyright 1998 Times Publishing Company


                              63 of 280 DOCUMENTS

                         St. Petersburg Times (Florida)

                August 7, 1998, Friday, 0 South Pinellas Edition

Senators object to INS jailing of Arabs

BYLINE: SUSAN ASCHOFF

SECTION: NATIONAL; Pg. 3A

LENGTH: 579 words



In the strongest objection by members of Congress to the use of secret  evidence
to keep immigrants in jail, two senior senators say the practice may  be illegal
and appears "disturbingly" discriminatory.

In a letter dated Tuesday, Immigration Subcommittee Chairman Spencer  Abraham,
R-Mich., and Sen. Edward Kennedy, D-Mass., expressed "grave  concerns" about the
jailing of more than a dozen Arab immigrants, including  Tampa resident Mazen
Al-Najjar, on classified evidence. The letter, addressed  to Immigration and
Naturalization Service commissioner Doris Meissner and  Attorney General Janet
Reno, asks that such policies be reviewed.

Al-Najjar, a former University of South Florida teacher, has been detained
since May 1997. He is appealing deportation on an expired visa but has been
denied bail because he is accused of associating with the Palestinian Islamic
Jihad. Neither he nor his attorneys know what evidence the government is using
to keep him jailed.

The letter states that the cases raise questions about fundamental justice.  In
none of the cases is the INS asserting the individuals are terrorists or
committing terrorist acts. "They appear to be based not on any actions . . .
but rather on their purported associations," the letter reads. "Some also
believe," it reads, that there is an "appearance that the INS may be using
secret evidence only in cases against Arab immigrants."

Those active on the issue lauded the letter's strong language but noted the
senators blamed INS procedures stemming from the very immigration laws  Congress
passed in 1996.

The letter follows intense lobbying by Arab-American and civil rights  groups
against what they decry as violations of constitutional rights.

"Even if it (the letter) is to appease us, in the final analysis, it's
significant. It's bound to strengthen our argument that every person has the
right to look at the evidence against him," Hala Maksoud, president of the
American-Arab Anti-Discrimination Committee, said Thursday.

She said the letter's timing is due to a wave of national publicity about a
secret-evidence case in California involving six Iraqis.

The men are part of a group of several thousand brought to this country by  the
U.S. government when their CIA-backed fight against Saddam Hussein failed.

They were expecting asylum. Instead, they were ordered deported in March  based
on secret evidence alleging they are spies.

One of their attorneys, former CIA Director R. James Woolsey, blasted the
government's actions on ABC's Nightline and in the Wall Street Journal. Under
increasing pressure from Republican senators and after an internal review, the
Justice Department a month ago declassified most of the evidence in the case.

"What they are saying in the (senators') letter is it is becoming quite  clear
that the INS is engaging in overkill," said Niels Frenzen, one of the  Iraqis'
attorneys.

The agency has used classified evidence for decades, said INS spokesman  Greg
Gagne. There is nothing unusual about a congressional request for a  review of
agency procedures, he said.

While the Iraqi case concerns entry into the United States, most of the  jailed
men have lived in the country more than a decade, originally arriving  on
student and work visas, then marrying and rearing families. Some have now  been
jailed more than two years as their immigration cases wind through the  system.

LOAD-DATE: August 7, 1998

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                    Copyright 1998 Times Publishing Company


                              64 of 280 DOCUMENTS

                         St. Petersburg Times (Florida)

               August 28, 1998, Friday, 0 South Pinellas Edition

SECTION: NATIONAL; OBITUARIES; Pg. 6A

LENGTH: 383 words



HAROLD W. EZELL, 61, the co-author of California's controversial Proposition
187 and a vocal immigration reform advocate, died Tuesday in Newport Beach,
Calif., of liver cancer. Mr. Ezell was an outspoken critic of the U.S.
Immigration and Naturalization Service, under which he served as a regional
director during the Reagan and Bush administrations. He helped draft
Proposition 187, which sought to eliminate publicly financed education and  most
health care services to undocumented immigrants. The measure passed in  November
1994, but it was later ruled unconstitutional.

   LOUISE SHEPARD, wife of Mercury astronaut Alan Shepard, died Tuesday of a
heart attack while flying home to Monterey, Calif., after visiting a daughter
in Colorado. She was thought to have been 74. Her husband, the first American
to fly in space, died in his sleep last month at age 74 while being treated  for
leukemia.

   OLEG PROKOFIEV, 69, who devoted much of his life to promoting the memory of
his father, the composer Serge Prokofiev, died Aug. 20 while vacationing in
Guernsey, according to an obituary published Thursday in the Times of London.

   JACK WILLIAMS, 88, who helped propel Republicans to statewide power and was
the first Arizona governor to serve a four-year term, died Monday in Phoenix.
He served two two-year terms and one four-year term as governor before  retiring
in 1974. Arizona voters approved a constitutional change that added  four-year
terms in 1968. Mr. Williams lost his right eye to a tumor during  childhood, and
his frosted eyeglass became a trademark, as did his ready  smile.

   DR. FRANCESCO CRUCITTI, 67, Pope John Paul II's surgeon, died Wednesday in
Rome of cancer. In 1981, Dr. Crucitti led the medical team that operated on  the
pontiff after he was shot in the abdomen during an assassination attempt  in St.
Peter's Square.

   HOYT C. HOTTEL, 95, who helped develop the incendiary bomb and flamethrower
during World War II, died Aug. 18 in Winchester, Mass., of pancreatic cancer.
He was director for 35 years of the fuel research laboratory at the
Massachusetts Institute of Technology.

- Area obituaries and the Suncoast Deaths list appear in local sections.

LOAD-DATE: August 28, 1998

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: BLACK AND WHITE PHOTO; Louise Shepard

TYPE: OBITUARY

                    Copyright 1998 Times Publishing Company


                              65 of 280 DOCUMENTS

                         St. Petersburg Times (Florida)

              August 29, 1998, Saturday, 0 South Pinellas Edition

Case detonated at airport was full of cash

SECTION: CITY & STATE; Pg. 3B

LENGTH: 268 words

DATELINE: TAMPA



Tampa International Airport police called on U.S. immigration officials  Friday
for help in investigating a mysterious locked briefcase filled with  money that
was destroyed Thursday after an X-ray machine revealed wires and a  battery
inside.

The still-unidentified man who tried to carry the briefcase through  security at
Airside A was carrying two passports of his own, one issued by the  United
States and the other by Belize, a small nation on the eastern coast of  the
Yucatan Peninsula, as well as a U.S. passport belonging to a second  individual.

"We called on (the Immigration and Naturalization Service) to determine  that
the documents were authentic," said airport police Lt. Robert Dixon. The
Florida Department of Law Enforcement has asked for a copy of the final report
on the case, as well.

That report could be issued as early as the middle of next week.

"His version of how he came into possession of the briefcase, how many  times he
was at the airside and what his purpose was were not consistent with  a number
of other people we talked to," Dixon said. "He told a different  version of
events to different people."

Nonetheless, Dixon said he did not anticipate arrests.

"At this time, based on what I know, I don't see criminal activity," he  said.
"But the investigation is continuing, and who knows where it will  lead?"

The briefcase was destroyed by airport and Tampa police, who later  determined
the wires and battery they feared might be a bomb were actually  part of an
alarm device. They did not reveal the amount of money inside.

LOAD-DATE: August 31, 1998

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                    Copyright 1998 Times Publishing Company


                              66 of 280 DOCUMENTS

                         St. Petersburg Times (Florida)

                           September 7, 1998, Monday

Couple start petition to lift ban on U.S. entry

BYLINE: SUSAN TAYLOR MARTIN

SECTION: SEMINOLE TIMES; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 529 words

DATELINE: CLEARWATER



(ran SS edition of METRO & STATE)

A Clearwater man whose pregnant wife is banned from entering the United  States
for five years has started a petition drive to get U.S. immigration  officials
to reconsider their decision.

Justin Hill and his Canadian wife, Kelly, "remain separated by 1,200 miles  and
an unforgiving bureaucracy," say the petitions, which already have  gathered
scores of signatures. They are available at several north Pinellas  stores.

The Hills were among the subjects of a recent Times series on the harsh
consequences of the 1996 Immigration Reform and Immigrant Responsibility Act.
It is designed to rid the country of foreign-born terrorists and other
undesirables, but critics say it has ensnared thousands of people like the
Hills whose worst offense is ignorance of complex U.S. immigration laws.

Hill, a postal worker, met Kelly Sutton two years ago while she was  vacationing
in Pinellas County. She got a job in a Clearwater nursing home,  which promised
to take care of all the necessary paperwork for her to be  legally employed in
the United States, she said.

The couple became engaged and drove to Canada in January to tell her  parents.
On the way back, they were stopped at the border in Detroit where  U.S.
immigration officials interrogated Sutton for seven hours and repeatedly
threatened her with jail. Because she lacked the proper visa to work in this
country, she was denied entry and - under a controversial provision of the  1996
act - deported on the spot for five years.

"I guess you're not going to get married after all," she said one  inspector
told her.

Taking the advice of a more sympathetic official, Hill, 23, and Sutton,  26,
drove back into Canada and were married a few days later. Then he returned  to
Florida while she stayed in Toronto, where she has been living in her  mother's
tiny apartment, sleeping on a sofa.

Given the distance and expense, Hill has visited his wife only three times.  The
most recent was last month when they went for a sonogram and learned that  their
baby, due in January, is a girl.

The couple are in the midst of a complicated legal battle to waive the
five-year ban and get permanent resident status for Mrs. Hill so she can live
and work in the United States. However, if things continue to drag on as they
have, Hill plans to apply for Canadian citizenship in November and move to
Toronto. "I'm not going to miss out on my daughter," he said.

The union that represents Hill and other U.S. postal employees is checking  on
the prospect of his transferring to the Canadian postal service. His wife,
meanwhile, is searching for an apartment.

 With the Canadian dollar so weak compared with the U.S. dollar, the  thought of
cheap rent payments "is about the only good thing to come out of  this," Hill
said.

 Petitions in support of the Hills are available at these locations: Anvil
Paints, 1255 Starkey Road; Gold's Gym, Bayside Plaza at McMullen-Booth Road  and
State Road 590; Pickels Plus, Northwood Plaza at McMullen-Booth and  Enterprise
roads; and Discount Nutrition Center, 1515 Main St., Dunedin.

LOAD-DATE: September 8, 1998

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DISTRIBUTION: SEMINOLE TIMES; LARGO TIMES; CLEARWATER TIMES; NORTH PINELLAS
TIMES; CITY & STATE; METRO & STATE; TAMPA & STATE

GRAPHIC: BLACK AND WHITE PHOTO, (2); Canadian Kelly Hill (ran SE LA CT); Justin
Hill (ran SE LA CT)

                    Copyright 1998 Times Publishing Company


                              67 of 280 DOCUMENTS

                         St. Petersburg Times (Florida)

               September 17, 1998, Thursday, 2 Late Tampa Edition

Ruling keeps ex-USF teacher in jail

SECTION: TAMPA & STATE; Pg. 3B

LENGTH: 232 words



Tampa resident Mazen Al-Najjar's request to get out of jail while he fights
deportation has been denied on appeal.

In a decision released Wednesday, the Board of Immigration Appeals  dismissed
Al-Najjar's argument that he is being illegally detained on secret  evidence.

Al-Najjar's appeal of his deportation is still pending.

The board's ruling means the Palestinian and longtime U.S. resident, jailed  for
16 months, will stay there.

It frees him, however, to seek relief in federal district court, since he  has
exhausted all avenues of relief in the U.S. Immigration and Naturalization
Service system. Federal court judges may consider whether constitutional  rights
have been violated and other issues outside the jurisdiction of the INS  and its
judges.

A former University of South Florida teacher, Al-Najjar was arrested in May
1997 on an expired visa, then denied bail based on secret evidence alleging he
associates with terrorists.

No charges have been filed in the three-year-old investigation. Federal
investigators say a USF-affiliated think tank was used by Al-Najjar and others
as a front for aiding terrorists.

Al-Najjar is one of about two dozen immigrants nationwide, all of them Arab  or
Muslim, jailed or accused on secret evidence. Use of secret evidence is
unconstitutional and bigoted, say rights groups lobbying for changes.

LOAD-DATE: September 17, 1998

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DISTRIBUTION: TAMPA & STATE; CITY & STATE; METRO & STATE

                    Copyright 1998 Times Publishing Company


                              68 of 280 DOCUMENTS

                         St. Petersburg Times (Florida)

               October 16, 1998, Friday, 0 South Pinellas Edition

Deals shield Haitians, but not state's tobacco money

BYLINE: DAVID DAHL

SECTION: NATIONAL; FLORIDA; Pg. 9A

LENGTH: 496 words

DATELINE: WASHINGTON



In the last days of this Congress, Florida lawmakers won protections for  40,000
Haitian immigrants who have lived for years with the fear of  deportation. But
they failed to prevent the federal government from someday  raiding millions of
dollars gained from the state's lawsuit against Big  Tobacco.

The provision making the Haitian refugees eligible for permanent residency  was
included in a huge budget bill that was being finalized Thursday night. It
affects some 40,000 refugees, most in Florida, who fled their country after a
military coup in 1991.

"Thousands of hard-working families will no longer suffer in immigration  limbo
and will be truly free to realize the American dream," said Sen. Bob  Graham,
D-Fla., who worked with Sen. Connie Mack, R-Fla., to grant the  protection.

Congress had failed to include the Haitians in legislation last year that
protected some 150,000 Nicaraguans from harsh new requirements of a 1996
immigration law. African-American lawmakers complained the Haitians were the
victims of discrimination, leading the Clinton administration to impose a
one-year moratorium on deportations while Congress figured out a solution.

In addition to allowing the Haitian refugees to stay in the United States
legally, the budget agreement increases the number of specialized foreign
workers allowed in the country and earmarks $ 171-million for the Immigration
and Naturalization Service to reduce its backlog of citizenship applications
(1.9-million people currently are waiting to become U.S. citizens).

Meantime, Graham and Mack lost their effort to block the federal government
from staking a claim to part of the state's $ 13-billion settlement with
tobacco companies. The federal government might want some of the money,  $
1-billion or more, by some estimates, to cover Washington's portion of
Medicaid, the state-federal health care program.

The administration is in no hurry to collect the money, said Kimberly  James, a
spokeswoman for Graham.

In the confusion of the final negotiations, Graham's aides and the
administration said the bill includes between $ 40-million and $ 60-million to
help the state pay for land acquisition in the Everglades.

A separate spending bill funding the Pentagon includes several million  dollars
for local projects inserted by Rep. C.W. Bill Young, R-Indian Rocks  Beach.

The defense spending bill sends $ 10-million to the University of South  Florida
for work on its underwater research vehicle; $ 4.2-million for a police  school
at St. Petersburg Junior College; and $ 6.5-million for breast cancer  research
at USF, according to Young's office.

Elsewhere, environmental groups failed to block a provision that allows 75
acres of coastal Florida to get federal flood insurance, which is expected to
pave the way for development.

- Information from the New York Times and Knight Ridder Newspapers was used in
this report.

LOAD-DATE: October 16, 1998

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                    Copyright 1998 Times Publishing Company


                              69 of 280 DOCUMENTS

                         St. Petersburg Times (Florida)

              October 17, 1998, Saturday, 0 South Pinellas Edition

An agency out of control

SECTION: EDITORIAL; EDITORIALS; Pg. 12A

LENGTH: 387 words



The Immigration and Naturalization Service appears to have more power than it
can exercise responsibly.

Ever since Congress strengthened the agency's authority by enacting the  1996
Immigration Reform and Immigrant Responsibility Act, charges of abuse of  power
by the INS have been piling up. Agents have been accused of harassing  visitors
and legal immigrants at the borders, jailing people who have  committed no
crimes and ordering arbitrary deportations that have separated  families and
devastated lives.

A new report by the National Network for Immigrant and Refugee Rights, a
nonprofit alliance that monitors immigrant issues, paints a picture of an
agency that is out of control. The report accuses INS agents of using terror
tactics when conducting raids.

The group, which considers itself a watchdog for immigrant rights, also  alleges
that agents have brutalized and humiliated detainees during  questioning and
targeted their victims based on the color of their skin.

In one Miami case detailed in the report, INS agents are accused of forcing
Hispanic workers to sit and answer questions on the wet floor of a 35-degree
storage area during a recent raid at a flower company. This came after  shouting
out orders and physically assaulting several employees.

In another Florida case, INS agents, accompanied by police and dogs,  conducted
a nighttime raid on two Hispanic neighborhoods in Crescent City.  Authorities
stormed into several houses, scaring some residents so badly they  hid in the
woods for days.

These and other allegations of abuse need to be addressed by Congress and  the
Justice Department.

Often poor, and lacking the resources to hire lawyers, immigrants who have  been
victimized by the INS often don't seek redress for the mistreatment. That  makes
them easy targets for agents who abuse the law.

The problem raises some serious questions about the nation's enforcement of
immigration laws.

Why hasn't Attorney General Janet Reno ordered the civil rights division of  the
U.S. Justice Department to investigate allegations of immigrant abuses  more
aggressively?

And why are Florida's elected officials so indifferent to the INS's  treatment
of immigrants?

When government abuses its police power, all citizens should be concerned.

LOAD-DATE: October 20, 1998

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: EDITORIAL

                    Copyright 1998 Times Publishing Company


                              70 of 280 DOCUMENTS

                         St. Petersburg Times (Florida)

               October 19, 1998, Monday, 0 South Pinellas Edition

Cubans fear deportation will be a death sentence

BYLINE: LARRY DOUGHERTY

SECTION: CITY & STATE; Pg. 5B

LENGTH: 924 words



It would be natural to think that not-guilty verdicts meant freedom for three
Cubans put on trial in Tampa last year on federal hijacking charges.

But that assumption doesn't account for immigration law. After their
acquittals, the three men simply traded one jail cell for another. Fifteen
months later, in a grim legal version of Groundhog Day, they are scheduled to
go back on trial today.

The proceeding in Bradenton is an immigration hearing, which could take two
weeks. Instead of prison, the outcome the men fear this time is repatriation  to
Cuba. Returning to Cuba, they say, means a death sentence.

Leonardo Reyes Ramirez, 29, Adel Regalado Ulloa, 24, and Jose Roberto Bello
Puente, 24, entered this country two years ago, after the plane in which they
were riding crashed into the Gulf of Mexico off Fort Myers.

The three men say they came to the United States to escape the Cuban
government. The manner in which they left Cuba, and their request for asylum  in
this country, have irretrievably branded them as state enemies, they say.  Their
case has become a cause for the conservative Cuban-American communities  of
Tampa and Miami.

"They were looking for freedom," said Emilio Vazquez Sr., director of the  Tampa
Bay Chapter of the Cuban American National Foundation. "For them, it's  been a
nightmare. Waiting so many months."

The U.S. government, though, takes a very different position. Despite last
year's jury verdict, immigration officials maintain that the three men are
hijackers. Their violence precludes admission into this country, officials
contend, under the agreement that U.S. and Cuban representatives struck three
years ago to control emigration.

Part of the U.S. government's hard line against the three men might make  sense
in light of its desire not to upset the agreement, said Damian  Fernandez, a
Cuban-born professor of international relations at Florida  International
University.

After all, no one particularly wants a repeat of the 1994 exodus that  brought
tens of thousands of Cuban refugees to South Florida.

"They (the Clinton administration) don't want to upset the accord,"  Fernandez
said. "They are very scared of any issues regarding immigration."

Besides promising a rehash of the hijacking trial, the three men's case has
been drawn into the complex web of Cuban-American relations in South Florida.

The lawyer representing the three men said Regalado can provide evidence  Cuba
planned the shooting down of four Cuban-American Brothers to the Rescue  in
1996. And given the FBI's recent arrests of 10 people in Miami on charges  of
spying for the Castro regime, the three men can't understand why the U.S.
government isn't more sympathetic.

Their lawyer, Ralph Fernandez of Tampa, is active in conservative  anti-Castro
causes. Fernandez, who is not related to the Miami professor, won  the men's
acquittal last year on criminal charges. He estimates he has put in  more than
400 hours preparing for this immigration hearing, even forsaking his  cherished
daily racquetball game. He said he is not getting paid.

Fernandez says the stakes couldn't be higher.

"Everybody wants them, and many who want them, want them dead. They're not  safe
anywhere," Fernandez said. "They realize they're caught in this  terrible vise."

Fernandez is prepared to show the immigration judge that the three men did  not
hijack the plane. They told officials that they were hijackers in order to
protect the pilot - a friend who they say grew fearful at the last moment.
Complicity in the men's voyage would have meant punishment for the pilot, who
was returned to Cuba.

"It's almost a biblical thing, the creation of a story to save someone,"
Fernandez said.

Moreover, Fernandez will argue there is another reason to keep the men in  this
country - the evidence one of the men can provide in one of the most  widely
publicized clashes between Cuba and U.S. residents in recent years.

In February 1996, Cuban fighter pilots shot down four members of the
Miami-based organization called Hermanos al Rescate - Brothers to the Rescue.
The group had formed to fly small planes across the Straits of Florida,  helping
to rescue Cuban refugees on boats. Cuba contends the pilots were shot  down
after they ignored warnings and flew into Cuban airspace.

Regalado, who helped manage a small airport outside Havana before he left  Cuba,
says he witnessed preparations for the shootdown shortly beforehand.

"In essence, I will be the prosecutor for the U.S. government for the
assassination case in the first portion of this trial," Fernandez said.

Fernandez said attorneys for the Immigration and Naturalization Service  have
been fighting his attempts to bring in this sort of information.

Amy Otten, a spokeswoman for the immigration service in Miami, declined to  say
much at all about the case. She said she didn't find it a contradiction  that
immigration lawyers would continue to press a hijacking case that a  federal
jury has already dismissed.

"Not necessarily - our lawyers make the determination," Otten said,  adding that
"we just generally don't discuss our cases publicly."

Fernandez feels U.S. leaders are selling out his clients, despite their
dangerous flight from Cuba.

"This was an act by four people who knew what they wanted to do,"  Fernandez
said. "They wanted to be free."  - Times staff writer David Adams and Times
researcher Jerry Nagle contributed  to this report.

LOAD-DATE: October 21, 1998

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DISTRIBUTION: CITY & STATE; METRO & STATE; TAMPA & STATE

GRAPHIC: COLOR PHOTO, Times files; BLACK AND WHITE PHOTO, Times files; Leonardo
Reyes Ramirez, Adel Regalado Ulloa and Jose Roberto Bello Puente, three Cubans
acquitted of hijacking charges last year, talk to their lawyer, Ralph Fernandez,
at the Manatee County Jail in Bradenton. (ran METRO & STATE); Leonardo Reyes
Ramirez, Adel Regalado Ulloa and Jose Roberto Bello Puente, three Cubans
acquitted of hijacking charges last year, talk to their lawyer, Ralph Fernandez,
at the Manatee County Jail in Bradenton. (ran TAMPA & STATE)

                    Copyright 1998 Times Publishing Company


                              71 of 280 DOCUMENTS

                         St. Petersburg Times (Florida)

                October 20, 1998, Tuesday, 2 Late Tampa Edition

Cubans back in court for deportation hearing

BYLINE: LARRY DOUGHERTY

SECTION: TAMPA & STATE; Pg. 3B

LENGTH: 601 words

DATELINE: BRADENTON



Once again, Leonardo Reyes Ramirez found himself on the witness stand in a
courtroom Monday, describing those panicked moments two years ago when the
small airplane that had spirited him from Havana ditched into the Gulf of
Mexico.

The Polish-made Wilga had run out of gas. Reyes, 29, recalled the pilot  saying,
" "This is about to fall.' " Reyes put on a life jacket, but it  wouldn't
inflate properly.

The plane hit the water hard. Reyes broke his arm and hit his head. He and  his
cabinmates got into the gulf and began to make their way to the Russian  ship
they had sighted before the crash.

The scene he described was much the same as Reyes had described it a year  ago,
when Reyes and two other Cuban nationals stood trial on hijacking charges  in
federal court in Tampa. A jury found them not guilty.

But the double-jeopardy clause of the U.S. Constitution hasn't saved Reyes  and
his two countrymen, Adel Regalado Ulloa, 24, and Jose Roberto Bello  Puente, 24,
from once again being branded as hijackers by the U.S. government.

This time their accusers are attorneys representing the Immigration and
Naturalization Service, which is seeking to eject the trio from the country.
The government maintains that entering the U.S. by violence trumps the men's
right to asylum.

The immigration attorneys cite as evidence the statements the men made  after
they were fished out of the gulf: that they hijacked the plane and its  pilot.

The three subsequently changed their story, saying they had made up the  tale of
the hijacking to protect their pilot, Adolfo Perez Pantoja. Pantoja  wanted to
return to Cuba, and any hint he had co-operated with the escape  would have
meant difficulty for him with the Castro government.

On the stand Monday, Reyes denied having threatened Pantoja with a knife or
touching him. Reyes' countrymen are expected to testify as well, perhaps  today.

They are seeking asylum on the grounds that their actions have given them  good
reason to fear persecution if returned to Cuba.

The hearing before a U.S. immigration judge might take anywhere from one to
three weeks.

Before the start of Monday's hearing, about two dozen Cuban-American  supporters
of the trio demonstrated outside the Bradenton jail where the  hearing is being
held.

The biggest surprise of the day came from the Cuban men's lead attorney,  Ralph
Fernandez of Tampa.

Fernandez told the judge that another Cuban national detained for an
immigration hearing had approached Regalado in jail and had corroborated
information Regalado has offered about the Castro regime's shooting down of
four Miami-based activists two years ago. Fernandez is citing that information
as another important reason to keep the three men in this country.

Late Monday, Fernandez took a statement from the man, Luis Manuel Herrera,  who
arrived in this country last month by landing a plane in South Florida.

Afterward, Fernandez let reporters listen to portions of their taped  interview.

Manuel said that a high-ranking Cuban Air Force officer orchestrated the  shoot
down, which was rehearsed at an airport near Havana. The officer  recently died
in a plane crash.

"If he's telling the truth, it's extremely significant," Fernandez said
afterward. "This witness backs up what (Regalado) said about who ran the
operation."

There was no decision from the judge Monday about how much of this  information
would be factored into the immigration hearing.  - Sarasota Herald-Tribune staff
writer Brett Barrouquere contributed to this  report.

LOAD-DATE: October 21, 1998

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DISTRIBUTION: TAMPA & STATE; CITY & STATE; METRO & STATE

                    Copyright 1998 Times Publishing Company


                              72 of 280 DOCUMENTS

                         St. Petersburg Times (Florida)

                October 27, 1998, Tuesday, 2 Late Tampa Edition

Cubans' fate rests with judge

BYLINE: LARRY DOUGHERTY

SECTION: TAMPA & STATE; Pg. 3B

LENGTH: 382 words

DATELINE: BRADENTON



Immigration officials say three Cuban men who are seeking asylum in the  United
States are hijackers, opportunists willing to lie to suit their  purposes.

But the trio's attorney paints a different picture: They are refugees from
Castro's brutal regime who risked their lives for freedom and lied to protect  a
friend.

So it went Monday in closing arguments in an asylum hearing for Jose  Roberto
Bello Puente, 24, Adel Regalado Ulloa, 24, and Leonardo Reyes Ramirez,  29. The
three entered the United States in August 1996 after a plane in which  they were
flying crashed into the Gulf of Mexico off Fort Myers.

Last year a federal jury in Tampa cleared them of hijacking the plane and  its
pilot. Still, the government continues to say they are hijackers who  should be
deported.

Immigration authorities rejected the men's contention that they will be
persecuted if they are returned to Cuba.

On the contrary, an immigration attorney argued, the men enjoyed family and
professional ties to the government that gave them access to perks, vacations
and meals not available to many Cuban citizens.

They decided to flee Cuba because "they were tired of the Cuban system,  after
years of taking advantage of the Cuban system," said Daniel Vara, an  attorney
for the Immigration and Naturalization Service.

Vara said the men consistently lied to government authorities - automatic
grounds for refusing asylum. One even lied to a guard at the Bradenton jail
about his romantic intentions regarding her, Vara said.

Regalado told Elizabeth Troost, a new guard in training, that he would  marry
her once he was freed. Regalado failed to mention he already is married  in
Cuba, Vara said. Troost later resigned from jail work.

Ralph Fernandez, the Tampa lawyer representing the men, said Regalado was
honest about his marriage, which is nearly dissolved. Regalado also has stated
that, "if he has one day of freedom, he wants to spend it with Elizabeth
Troost," Fernandez said.

Fernandez said his clients initially lied about hijacking the plane to  protect
the pilot, who wanted to return to Cuba and would have been punished  for
complicity.

Immigration Judge Kevin McHugh indicated he would issue his ruling soon,
possibly later this week.

LOAD-DATE: October 28, 1998

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DISTRIBUTION: TAMPA & STATE; CITY & STATE; METRO & STATE

GRAPHIC: BLACK AND WHITE PHOTO, (3); Jose Roberto Bello Puente, (ran TAMPA &
STATE); Adel Regalado Ulloa, (ran TAMPA & STATE); Leonardo Reyes Ramirez, (ran
TAMPA & STATE)

                    Copyright 1998 Times Publishing Company


                              73 of 280 DOCUMENTS

                         St. Petersburg Times (Florida)

              November 16, 1998, Monday, 0 South Pinellas Edition

Congress ought to change 1996 immigration law

SECTION: EDITORIAL; LETTERS; Pg. 11A

LENGTH: 2006 words



Re: Couple still an ocean apart, by Anthony Lewis, Nov. 11.

As an immigration attorney and U.S. citizen, I sympathize greatly with the
couple described in this column. They, and countless others, are caught in the
web of the 1996 Immigration Act because of its many onerous provisions,
including the new sponsorship requirements. Indeed, the sponsorship  requirement
has caused one of my clients to remark that she "should have  married for money
instead of love" because her American citizen husband also  does not have the
requisite tax returns for the last three years. (This is not  an unusual
situation for elderly/retired people, for example, who might have  sufficient
income from insurance, annuities and other financial sources that  are not
reported on tax returns.)

To me, one of the ironies as to the "public charge" concern, is that  under a
different set of laws, most permanent residents are not eligible for  public
benefits for their first five years as residents in the United States  anyway,
and those who are eligible are, for the most part, exempt from filing  the
Affidavit of Support.

For the record, the sponsorship "problem" may be cured by providing a  notarized
statement as to the reasons for the unavailability of tax returns  and by
providing evidence of other sources of income or assets according to a  specific
formula that exists for the new Affidavit of Support. Also, a joint  sponsor
could be enlisted and/or the spouse's own income/assets could be  considered.
However, if sufficient assets or a joint sponsor do not exist,  then the couple
may, indeed, be stuck.

What can we, as citizens, do? We can write or call our elected  representatives
in Congress to complain and ask them if they really understood  what they were
signing when they passed this law.

This new immigration law not only affects couples like the Thompsons who  just
want to begin a new life together, but many other long-term families who  are
threatened with being separated from loved ones because of certain  retroactive
provisions that can cause someone to be deported (the new, kinder,  gentler term
is "removed") from the United States for five, 10, 20 years or  forever.

I'm not sure how tourism, Florida's mainstay, will fare once tourists are
"expeditiously removed" at the border for some perceived infraction of the
immigration law and not allowed to return to the United States for five years  -
or when a tourist is forced to languish for weeks in some prison, surrounded  by
criminals, where their only violation of the law was a "civil" offense,  while
waiting for their cases to be heard or to be "removed." That's quite a  price to
pay - and at taxpayers' expense!

It is vital that these laws be changed so that couples like the Thompsons  and
others are not forced to be kept apart by inflexible laws that can only  hurt
our country's reputation. As it was written in The Laws of Plato many  years
ago, "a country's reputation, for good or ill, with the outer world  ought never
to be undervalued."

Ellen Gorman-Martinez, St. Petersburg

The failings of education

      Re: Self-serving Pinellas County school Superintendent Howard Hinesley
and the district's lawyer John Bowen.

These men would have been fired long ago in the private sector for
indifference, ineptitude and failure to comprehend the problems facing them.

How can anyone with a doctorate degree or otherwise willfully finagle a  salary
bonus increase when millions of high school graduates are barely  literate and
becoming worse with each successive graduating class?

A case in point: Recently, I went to the customer service counter in a  Kmart
and showed the girl a mischarge on my receipt for 90 cents on each of  four
items. She entered the information on her calculator and after about 10  seconds
said I had $ 2.81 coming. I told her this was wrong and after another  longer
time lapse, I learned that $ 3.90 was the correct figure. She (part-time
college student) was amazed to learn that four times 90 cents equals $ 3.60.
Since this encounter I made it a point to ask five different bank tellers,
appearing to be in their early 20s, how much is four times 90? None of them
knew the answer. One of them asked me if she could use a calculator. Now I
understand why some students, even in junior college, think Hungary is in  South
America.

Nice going, Howard and John. It's reassuring to know each of you possesses
advanced degrees and will probably give yourselves larger salary increases in
the coming years. Perhaps hiring more doctorates is the answer.

John Petersen, Largo

Are officers too quick to kill?

  In the last year we have read almost weekly of a police officer shooting to
kill when threatened. Some of the deadly threats have included: a crazed
teenager choking a cop's partner, a drunken elderly man with a champagne  bottle
and a drunken woman with a steak knife. Shouting "Stop" and shooting  to kill
now seem to be the only weapons in the officers' repertoire.

In each of these cases it is difficult to believe that a well-trained,
physically fit officer could not have defused the situation otherwise. A  strong
blow to the offender's head with a fist or nightstick would have  probably
worked! A mythical John Wayne (or even Andy Griffith) could possibly  disarm a
drunk with a bottle without killing him.

Not long ago  we read about a kid with a mysterious Walkman who almost met  an
untimely fate. Yes, I admit, this is second-guessing from the sidelines and
those doing a difficult job deserve respect. But bravery is not killing every
possible threat. It was easier to believe that these men were heroes when they
faced danger a bit more calmly and knew that taking a life is seldom  justified.



Phillip Bamond, St. Petersburg

Chimp Farm deserves our help

   Re: Chimp zoo struggles with image, Oct. 26.

It is sad that a family that has been so dedicated for so many years to the
raising and care of broken animals - animals that were originally deformed in
one way or another, or had outgrown their usefulness to the film industry and
which would have been destroyed long ago - must be continually harassed rather
than be financially supported by do-gooder animal activists.

I first visited Noell's Chimp Farm in the mid-1970s while on vacation from  the
north. The late Bob Noell personally escorted and introduced me to every  one of
his animal friends and told me the sad stories that went with each.

I was so impressed by the commitment that he and his wife and family had  made
to the animal part of their family that upon my return north, I mailed  them a
generous contribution, accompanied by a letter of appreciation for the
commitment that they had made to giving these critters a loving home in which
to live.

Anyone who has gone to the Animal Farm with signs to picket outside this
time-worn facility certainly cannot be aware of the years of hard work,
dedication and love that the Noells have demonstrated over the years toward  our
animal friends.

I implore all who read this letter to please take it in their hearts to  help
the Noells. The Noells are the salt of the Florida earth and should be  helped
by the rest of us who have never made such a serious pledge to do so  much good,
let alone follow it through for generations to come.

The animals at the Chimp Farm are family to the Noells, and increased  pressure
to close this facility rather than help will only end in them being  used for
research or destroyed because of their assorted deformities.

Guy U. Nash, St. Petersburg

Fernandez did nothing improper

   Re: For a cleaner Tampa City Council, editorial, Nov. 5.

I was extremely disappointed by the negative implication in this editorial  with
regard to Rudy Fernandez. I have known Rudy since attending Jesuit High  School
with him and know him to be a man of unmatched integrity. A newspaper  with the
high standards and reputation of the St. Petersburg Times has a  responsibility
to protect the reputations of not only general citizens, but  also public
officials.

The editorial leaves one with the implication that Rudy Fernandez, "who  cast
the deciding pro-permit vote - without first disclosing that his firm  traded
stocks for Carr," was somehow involved with a criminal conspiracy.  Certainly,
there is no evidence in this regard.

While the disclosure of potential conflicts of interest certainly is  important
for all levels of government, I believe the editorial board erred by  using the
example of Rudy Fernandez's vote, leaving the implication that  Fernandez
committed some impropriety. This certainly is not accurate or  responsible
reporting.

Dennis J. LeVine, Tampa

Let the people decide on Powerball

  Re: Powerball would be too much, letter, Nov. 12.

This letter writer asks: "Aren't there enough lottery games here now? Games
that are played and usually won by Floridians? Why invest in a game that has
winners coming from 20 different states?"

Better check the stats. Many games are played and won by out-of-staters.  Does
the writer honestly believe that our lottery is one of the biggest just  because
of Floridians playing? I think not.

Our tourists spend a lot on our lottery. And they win. And they take that  money
out of state. That's the way things are.

As always, it is the people who should decide if they want to play  Powerball or
not. If it does not go over, then it should be dropped. But just  saying the
people don't want it is not factual. The writer does not represent  the majority
of Floridians.

As for Powerball, I say go for it. Let all of us Floridians decide if we  like
it.

Sonny Haskins, Clearwater

Jefferson's in a different league

  Re: Will Republicans be consistent?, Nov. 5.

Despite the efforts of Clinton apologists to compare his personal life to
Thomas Jefferson's, the idea is ridiculous.

The facts show that Jefferson, a young widower, made a death-bed promise to  his
wife that he would not marry again. Sally Hemings, the black slave he  later
fell in love with and had a child by, was his wife's half-sister. It is  likely
he was drawn to her because of shared characteristics. Jefferson freed  her and
their child upon their return from France. She willingly shared her  life with
him without benefit of marriage because laws at that time prevented  marriage
between the races.

Clinton's situation is hardly comparable. Keeping promises and being loyal  are
not his M.O. He has admitted to sex with hundreds and has become more and  more
reckless in his behavior.

To speak of a self-serving professional politician, who came to the  presidency
with the nickname "Slick Willy" and one of our founding fathers  in the same
breath verges on blasphemy.

The only thing Clinton will ever share with Jefferson is his name.

Edward R. Wright, Brooksville

Share your opinions

   We invite readers to write to us. Letters for publication should be
addressed to Letters to the Editor, P.O. Box 1121, St. Petersburg, FL 33731.
They also can be sent by fax to 893-8675.

They should be brief and must include the writer's name, address and phone
number. Please include a handwritten signature when possible.

Letters may be edited for clarity, taste and length. We regret that not all
letters can be published.

  For e-mail users: Letters can be sent by e-mail to letterssptimes.com.
E-mail messages must be text only and cannot include attachments. If you're
using a word processing program to write the message, you must use its "Save
as" function to save it as a text file, then import it into your e-mail
program. Please include your return e-mail address, as well as your name,
mailing address and phone number, in the text of the message.

LOAD-DATE: November 17, 1998

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: BLACK AND WHITE CARTOON, DON ADDIS; A filthy, barefoot child wearing a
Honduras T-shirt sits sucking its thumb as it holds a U.S. flag.

TYPE: LETTER

                    Copyright 1998 Times Publishing Company


                              74 of 280 DOCUMENTS

                         St. Petersburg Times (Florida)

                           November 29, 1998, Sunday

Deporting a parent

BYLINE: BILL MAXWELL

SECTION: PERSPECTIVE; Pg. 1D

LENGTH: 1928 words

DATELINE: RUSKIN



Latisha Espinosa, daughter of farm workers, is a high school senior who has
spent much of the last two years patiently raising twin brothers on her own.
Her father, a Mexican-born man who has toiled the fields of the United States
much of his adult life to provide for his children, made a mistake in 1993. He
tried to sell some marijuana, and he was sent to prison for it.

Now, the U.S. government wants to make Luis Espinosa pay twice. Not content
with the 15 months he has served in prison or the 29 years he has lived and
labored in this country, the Immigration and Naturalization Service is
determined to deport him. More to the point, the INS will strand four children
with no mother or father.

"My dad paid for his crime," Latisha said. "They're now punishing us."

Can such punishment possibly make sense?

Espinosa, 47, is a painful example of what ails our immigration system, of  how
the political momentum to close the nation's borders has produced  unintended
consequences. In his case, the 1996 Illegal Immigration Reform and  Immigrant
Responsibility Act has gone too far. It has taken a family of  children who are
surviving against enormous odds and is throwing them the  cruelest curve of all.
It is taking away their father - their only reliable  provider.

Espinosa, a farm worker from Ruskin, sits in the Federal Detention Center  in
Oakdale, La., awaiting deportation to Mexico in a few weeks. His two girls,
Jessica, 19, Latisha, 18, 10-year-old twin sons Luis Jr. and Mario, and a
2-month-old granddaughter live alone in a Ruskin labor camp. The children's
mother, who left the father in 1993, lives in another part of the state.

How Espinosa wound up in a Louisiana lockup is a simple enough tale, but  the
forces driving his case - the reasons for his deportation - are ironic and
eerily harsh for the American way.

Born Luis Espinosa-Hernandez in 1952 to a poor agricultural family in rural  San
Francisco del Rincon, Mexico, Espinosa never attended school. Wanting to  find a
better life, he crossed the border into the United States in 1969 and  became a
farm worker. In 1983, he married Anna Maria, who was born in the  United States.
He returned to Mexico for three weeks in 1986 to qualify for  immigrant status
in America based on his wife's citizenship.

In 1993, his troubles began. He traveled to Mississippi to look for work.  Anna
Maria had already deserted him, so he left the children in Ruskin with  his
wife's father. After the crop in Mississippi failed, Espinosa became  desperate
to earn money to send to the children. He returned to Florida, where  a friend
persuaded him to drive marijuana from Texas to Florida. He was  arrested enroute
to Florida in Rankin County, Miss., for "possession of more  than 1 ounce of
marijuana but less than 1 kilogram," an amount not considered  an aggravated
felony by the INS.

He was arraigned, given a court date and released on bail. He returned to
Florida, settled back into life as a farm worker and never went to court. In
1997, he returned to Mississippi to work and was arrested as a fugitive. The
judge gave him a two-year sentence. He was released after one year for good
behavior. The problem was that Espinosa was handed over to INS and brought to
Oakdale.

While Espinosa has been in prison for the last 15 months, his children have  had
to fend for themselves in a two-bedroom mobile home that does not have air
conditioning.

To look inside the lives of these children is to witness a crisis that the  U.S.
government never should have created and probably did not intend. Even  after
their father was convicted, the children, all born in Florida, believed  that he
would return home soon. But as the days stretched into months, the  children
resigned themselves to living alone and together as a family.

Latisha, or Letty, was nearly 17 when their father was locked up. Now a  senior
at East Bay High School in Gibsonton, Letty assumed full responsibility  for her
siblings. Jessica, a year older, dropped out of school. She recently  had a
baby.

A studious child, Letty was at first angry that she had so many adult
responsibilities. "Why me? I kept thinking," she said, her stoical eyes
surveying the small room where her brothers and their friend sit on the worn
couch. "But I refused to let my family get split up. I decided to take care  of
the boys, my sister and her baby."

Letty and the twins qualify for free breakfast and lunch at school. Other  than
that, they receive no government largess. The grandfather, a crew leader  for
farm workers, gives the children $ 60 a week. Their mother was ordered by  the
court to pay $ 400 a month in child support. A farm worker who follows the  East
Coast migrant stream, she sends what she can, when she can. Often, she  has
nothing to send.

Letty and her siblings feel no bitterness toward their mother. "Our mom  calls,"

 she said. "Sometimes she comes to visit. She doesn't have much time  because
she is a farm worker. She works very hard to send us money."

Having learned to manage expenses, Letty, with her grandfather's financial  and
moral support, consistently pulls together the cash to pay the $ 87.50 a  week
rent and the telephone and electric bills. She struggles to keep enough  money
for food. And when the boys need clothes, she finds ways to dress them.

"I am the boys' mom, dad, sister, cook and nurse," she said.

She gets up each morning at 5, dresses herself, wakes the twins and walks  them
to the bus stop. She catches the school bus at 6:20. The boys are already  back
in the camp when she arrives at about 3:15. She oversees their homework,  cleans
the mobile home and prepares dinner if Jessica has not done so.  Whenever the
boys are ill, Letty nurses them. She cuts their hair every three  weeks and even
referees disputes when they get into trouble in the camp or  fight each other.

Letty, who is slated to graduate this spring and who wants to be a computer
analyst, has no social life. She does not date or attend school sporting  events
or dances. "I'm mostly here all of the time, just taking care of the  kids," she
said. "I just go to school, come back home and shop. I don't have  a car. My
grandfather has to drive me."

The twins seem to understand Letty's sacrifices and try not to give her too
much trouble. Because they are poor, the boys watch a lot of television and
invent games and toys. They spend many hours in a nearby woods that they call
"the clubhouse." There, they and a friend play cowboys and Indians and  engage
in other roughhousing.

Even when life goes smoothly, however, Letty knows in the back her mind  that
she and her family are victims of a cruel waiting game. When their father  is
deported after Dec. 7, she believes the state Department of Children and
Families will try to take the twins.

"Splitting us up is the worst thing that can happen," she said. "I want  to go
to college, but, because I just turned 18, I may quit school, get a job  and
take care of the kids. I don't want us split up. The kids are better off  with
me."

Letty's calm exterior belies a bitter wisdom that comes to the children of
immigrants caught in the legal nightmare of inflexible immigration policies.
"Our dad committed one stupid mistake," she said. "We don't know what we're
going to do after they deport him. If my dad was here, everything could be  fine
like before. I could get a part-time job and help him out and still go to
school. That's what we had planned.

"They're taking our dad away from us, and we're not able to live our  normal
lives. . . . My dad is a good person. There was no work. He was taking  care of
four kids on his own. He didn't want to drag us all up north - to  Georgia,
Tennessee and Michigan - so he tried to make some fast money for the  first time
in his life. He used to work three jobs to support us. He would do  any kind of
work. He would work anywhere. Now he's being taken from us. What  are we going
to do?"

Espinosa's pro bono attorney, Alicia Triche of the Oakdale, La., Catholic  Legal
Immigration Network, said that her client's punishment far outweighs his  crime,
that he is a victim of a law that is too restrictive.

When convicted in 1997 for possession of marijuana and of jumping bail,
Espinosa was ruled deportable. Triche filed for a hardship waiver, which,  prior
to 1996, would have protected her client from deportation because he had
resided in the country for seven years. The revised immigration act, however,
retroactively made any legal immigrant with a drug conviction subject to
immediate deportation - no matter how long ago the conviction occurred. Before
1996, Triche said, an immigrant ruled deportable still could ask the judge to
waive that provision because of the "equities," the positives, the person  has
built while in the United States.

The case law allows the judge to decide if the immigrant is basically a  good
person, to determine the number of relatives in the United States, how  long the
person has been in the country, the family life, the work history,  and then the
nature of the crime and whether he or she is contrite.

"The judge decides if you're good enough to stay in America," Triche  said. "And
our judge did decide that Mr. Espinosa was good enough to stay. He  said, yes,
this crime is egregious, but it is outweighed by the way Mr.  Espinosa has taken
care of his children, by the way that he has worked hard in  the United States.
Unfortunately, the judge also said that Mr. Espinosa's  waiver requires that he
had to have lived in this country seven years after  being legally admitted."

Therein lies his problem. Even though Espinosa had been in America since  1969,
he was not permitted until receiving his green card in 1986. Here,  Triche said,
is where the law, as interpreted by the judge in the case, is too  narrow. When
does permission begin? But more important, when does it stop?

In Espinosa's case, the judge said his permission stopped when he was  arrested
- not when he was convicted. The result is that Espinosa missed the  seven
year-residency requirement by only a few months.

"This portion of the law is open to interpretation, and I want to appeal  it,"
Triche said. "But Mr. Espinosa has been in jail for over a year now and  insists
that he wants to be released at any cost - even it means deportation.  We have a
good chance of winning on appeal, but he doesn't care to wait the  one to three
years it takes to do an appeal before the Board of Immigration  Appeals. He's
anxious to go back to Mexico so that he can start sending money  to the
children. He's desperate to start supporting them."

Barring complications, Espinosa should be back on Mexican soil before the  end
of December. He will leave America without having seen his new  granddaughter.

"There's no common sense in this," Letty said. "If we're split up, I'll  quit
school if I have to and follow the boys. I have to help them out. The  boys
don't say much. They don't really understand what's going on. I try  telling
them, but they're too young to understand."

In a key immigration case of nearly two decades ago, federal immigration  Judge
Irving R. Kaufman wrote: "Deportation is not, of course, a penal  sanction. But
in severity it surpasses all but the most Draconian criminal  penalties."

The Espinosa children may soon find out just how Draconian the INS can be.

LOAD-DATE: December 2, 1998

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: COLOR PHOTO, JAMIE FRANCIS, (6); Mario Espinosa looks out the door of
his family's mobile home in Ruskin.; Latisha Espinosa cuts Luis' hair as his
twin brother Mario waits his turn.; Mario rests on the hood of a broken-down
truck in front of their mobile home as Luis walks around it.; Latisha prepares
ground beef, potatoes and corn for supper.; Mario searches through channels
pulled in by the TV's rabbit-ears antenna.; Mario and Luis play a game where the
object is to make your opponent say "mercy" by bending back his hands.

                    Copyright 1998 Times Publishing Company


                              75 of 280 DOCUMENTS

                         St. Petersburg Times (Florida)

             December 16, 1998, Wednesday, 1 North Pinellas Edition

Judge grants Cuban refugees asylum

BYLINE: LARRY DOUGHERTY

SECTION: METRO & STATE; Pg. 1B

LENGTH: 617 words

DATELINE: BRADENTON



Three jailed Cuban men got a big boost toward freedom Tuesday when an
immigration judge granted them asylum, saying the trio had not hijacked the
plane that brought them here 2 1/2 years ago.

In the complicated realm of immigration law, though, such an order doesn't
automatically open the jailhouse door.

That's because the U.S. Immigration and Naturalization Service - the same
government agency that had branded the men hijackers, and had previously
promised to contest any residency granted the men - also controls the freedom of
detained immigrants and may appeal the case.

Immigration judges are members of the federal government's executive branch and
have more limited powers than their counterparts in the judiciary.

The situation tempered the men's exultation when they appeared with their
lawyers at an afternoon news conference in an INS jail. The men had gathered and
cried after learning of the judge's order Tuesday morning.

"I was stunned," said one, 24-year-old Jose Roberto Bello Puente.

The men's lead Tampa lawyer, Ralph Fernandez, said the legal fight "has gone on
way too long."

"Read my lips," Fernandez said. "There was no skyjacking. There was no air
piracy in this case."

That conclusion - upheld by the immigration judge in a 47-page order - was the
same one reached by a federal jury in Tampa last year.

U.S. Immigration Judge Richard K. McHugh also concluded that the men - Bello,
Adel Regalado Ulloa and Leonardo Reyes Ramirez - had a well-founded fear of
persecution if they were returned to Cuba. He based this on the men's statements
explaining their desire to escape the Castro government and their spreading of
anti-government leaflets as they flew from Cuba.

Another factor in the fear of persecution was that Regalado, 24, has provided
information to the FBI regarding the Cuban government's shoot-down of four
anti-Castro aviators from Miami in February 1996.

"In that regard, the United States has a vested interest in Respondents'
presence and availability in this country," the judge wrote.

The judge noted that there were inconsistencies in the men's version of what
happened on the plane. But he found that Regalado had been close to pilot
Adolpho Perez Pantoja for years - a factor that mitigated against Regalado
participating in a hijacking against Pantoja.

After their plane went into the Gulf of Mexico in August 1996, the men told
rescuers they had hijacked the plane. But in their court testimony, the men said
that story was only a ruse designed to protect Pantoja, who had lost his nerve
and wanted to return to Cuba. Any hint of Pantoja's complicity would have meant
trouble for him.

The trouble for the trio was that their initial claims of hijacking put them at
odds with an agreement between the United States and Cuba designed to curb
dangerous migrations across the Florida Straits. Cubans who arrived on U.S.
shores through the use of violence would not be welcome, diplomatic officials
agreed.

The lawyer Fernandez wondered aloud what else the men would have to prove to
obtain their freedom.

"At some point somebody has to be reasonable in the Department of Justice," he
said.

INS officials in Miami did not return telephone calls seeking comment.

Emilio Vazquez Sr., director of the Tampa Bay Chapter of the Cuban American
National Foundation, had brought street clothes to the jail Tuesday, in the hope
of seeing the trio walk out. Over the months, Vazquez has visited the men many
times. While he won't rest until the men are free, he said Tuesday's decision
was a big step.

"Justice has been served," Vazquez said. "Sometimes you have to wait, but when
you deal with the truth, you see the results."

LOAD-DATE: January 6, 1999

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DISTRIBUTION: METRO & STATE; CITY & STATE; TAMPA & STATE

GRAPHIC: BLACK AND WHITE PHOTO, BOYZELL HOSEY; COLOR PHOTO, BOYZELL HOSEY;
Jailed on hijacking charges, Cubans Jose Roberto Bello Puente, Adel Regalado
Ulloa and Leonardo Reyes Ramirez were granted asylum Tuesday. (ran METRO &
STATE); Jailed on hijacking charges, Cubans Jose Roberto Bello Puente, Adel
Regalado Ulloa and Leonardo Reyes Ramirez were granted asylum Tuesday. (ran
TAMPA & STATE)

                    Copyright 1998 Times Publishing Company


                              76 of 280 DOCUMENTS

                         St. Petersburg Times (Florida)

              December 21, 1998, Monday, 0 South Pinellas Edition

Overspending on INS

SECTION: EDITORIAL; EDITORIALS; Pg. 12A

LENGTH: 401 words



Ever since Congress vastly expanded the authority of the Immigration and
Naturalization Service two years ago, anecdotal evidence of abuse by the INS has
been accumulating. Agents have been accused of harassing legal immigrants at the
borders, detaining people who have committed no crimes and ordering arbitrary
deportations that have separated families and caused severe emotional and
financial hardship.   The allegations alone should have prompted Congress to
revise the most draconian provisions of the Illegal Immigration and Reform
Responsibility Act. Now lawmakers have another reason to take a second look at
the 1996 law: Enforcing it has become so expensive, immigration officials
themselves are saying the law is too broad.   Even with a cash infusion of a
billion dollars from Congress, the INS has been unable to detain all the
immigrants who ought to be behind bars under the 1996 law. The United States has
expelled about 300,000 immigrants during the past two years, but record numbers
are locked up while they await deportation, causing detention centers around the
country to become dangerously overcrowded.   Immigration officials say they will
not be able to alleviate the space crunch unless the agency buys at least 21,000
additional beds and hires as many as 1,500 more employees. Covering those costs
would require another $ 650-million in federal funds - an amount that would
nearly double the agency's current budget.      Costs at the INS are
skyrocketing because its agents are now required to track down and deport
immigrants who have committed a broader range of crimes. While the agency always
has been required to deport murderers and rapists, now people who have committed
even minor offenses - such as forging a check - are routinely deported and
banned from returning the United States.    The INS' new responsibilities have
caused it to balloon into the biggest federal law enforcement agency. The
service has 15,000 officers who are authorized to carry weapons and make
arrests, more than the Federal Bureau of Investigation, the Bureau of Prisons or
the Drug Enforcement Agency.     It makes no sense for the United States to
spend sums fighting illegal immigration that rival or exceed the amount the
federal government is spending on more serious problems such as crime and drugs.
It's time for Congress to wake up and change the law.

LOAD-DATE: December 22, 1998

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: EDITORIAL

                    Copyright 1998 Times Publishing Company


                              77 of 280 DOCUMENTS

                         St. Petersburg Times (Florida)

               December 24, 1998, Thursday, 2 Late Tampa Edition

Detention of Cubans protested

BYLINE: RICHARD DANIELSON

SECTION: TAMPA & STATE; Pg. 1B

LENGTH: 698 words

DATELINE: TAMPA



A year after they were acquitted of air piracy and a week after a U.S.
immigration judge granted them asylum, three Cuban refugees still sit in a
Bradenton jail.   On Wednesday, two members of Congress demanded to know why.
Reps. Lincoln Diaz-Balart and Ileana Ros-Lehtinen, both Republicans from Miami,
wrote Attorney General Janet Reno to ask for an investigation into the continued
detention of Adel Regalado Ulloa, Jose Roberto Bello Puente and Leonardo Reyes
Ramirez.   "The continued detention of these Cuban refugees is totally
inexcusable," they wrote. "The rule of law is being violated in this case."   At
a news conference in Tampa, attorney Ralph Fernandez and other anti-Castro
activists said the U.S. Immigration and Naturalization Service seems determined
to hold the men regardless of the asylum they won last week.   "I believe
somebody at this point is committing a crime," said Emilio Vazquez, director of
the Tampa Bay branch of the Cuban American National Foundation. "They have been
acquitted twice, and we cannot understand why they're still in jail."   An INS
spokeswoman said the agency's Miami director is scheduled to consider today
whether to release the men. So far, the INS has not filed a notice that it
intends to appeal the asylum ruling.   In August 1996, the three men fled from
Cuba in a Polish-made plane that left from a suburb of Havana and ditched in the
Gulf of Mexico about 30 miles west of Fort Myers.   On their way out of Cuba,
the men dropped several thousand leaflets condemning a February 1996 attack in
which Cuban MiG jets shot down two unarmed planes from the Miami-based group
Brothers to the Rescue. Four anti-Castro aviators died in that incident.   The
refugees first said they used a knife and gun to commandeer the plane, but later
said they had made up the story to protect the plane's pilot, who had lost his
nerve and wanted to return to Cuba.   A federal jury acquitted the men of air
piracy last year. Last week, U.S. Immigration Judge Richard K. McHugh concluded
that the men had a well-founded fear of persecution if they returned to Cuba.
McHugh also noted that the refugees should receive asylum because Regalado had
provided information to the FBI about the Cuban attack on the Brothers to the
Rescue planes.   "In that regard, the United States has a vested interest in
(the Cubans') presence and availability in this country," McHugh wrote.
Fernandez contended that U.S. officials are trying to pressure Regalado into
withdrawing his cooperation into a U.S. inquiry into the Brothers to the Rescue
incident.   Fernandez has said that Regalado was a "material witness" to Cuban
preparations to shoot down the Brothers to the Rescue planes. About a week
before the incident, Regalado and another man who worked for a small tourist
airline in Cuba spent several days flying a small plane toward Havana's shore at
different altitudes. Tracking them were Cuban MiGs in what Fernandez has
described as "a practice run to what ultimately happened."   On Wednesday,
Fernandez went even further. He suggested that U.S. officials might not want to
investigate the Brothers to the Rescue attack or attempt to prosecute those
responsible in Cuba. He said that's because there are indications that the
United States might have known about the attack in advance and might have
decided not to respond when the MiGs showed up on radar.   Fernandez contended
that alienating Regalado as a witness in the case could undermine efforts to
bring out the truth about what happened in February 1996. That, he said, could
explain why the three men are still being held.   In Miami, Brothers to the
Rescue leader Jose Basulto likewise alleged that the U.S. government had warning
of the attack on his group's planes.   "We believe the shoot-down of those
planes could have been prevented and, willfully, it was not done," Basulto said.

   INS spokeswoman Kelley Spellman said she was not aware of the allegations and
did not comment other than to say that a decision about the men's detention is
scheduled to be made today.- Information from the Associated Press was used in
this report.

LOAD-DATE: December 24, 1998

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DISTRIBUTION: TAMPA & STATE; CITY & STATE; METRO & STATE

GRAPHIC: COLOR PHOTO, (3); BLACK AND WHITE PHOTO, (2); Adel Regalado Ulloa (ran
TAMPA & STATE); Jose Roberto Bello Puente (ran TAMPA); Leonardo Reyes Ramirez
(ran TAMPA); Miami Republican Reps. Lincoln Diaz-Balart (ran TAMPA); Ileana
Ros-Lehtinen (ran TAMPA)

                    Copyright 1998 Times Publishing Company


                              78 of 280 DOCUMENTS

                         St. Petersburg Times (Florida)

              December 25, 1998, Friday, 0 South Pinellas Edition

Federal officials release refugees

BYLINE: RICHARD DANIELSON; SARAH SCHWEITZER

SECTION: CITY & STATE; Pg. 1B

LENGTH: 849 words

DATELINE: TAMPA



After more than two years in jail, three Cuban refugees who papered Havana with
anti-Castro leaflets before flying to Florida were freed on Christmas Eve by
federal immigration officials.   The decision to release Adel Regalado Ulloa,
Jose Roberto Bello Puente and Leonardo Reyes Ramirez came a day after two
members of Congress from Miami demanded an investigation into their continued
detention.   The men were acquitted of hijacking charges by a federal jury in
Tampa last year and were granted asylum by U.S. Immigration Judge Richard K.
McHugh last week.   The trio learned of their release Thursday morning shortly
after being roused from their beds in a Manatee County jail. In the evening,
they joined their attorney Ralph Fernandez at his Tampa home for a memorable
Noche Buena celebration, a Christmas Eve tradition popular among Tampa's Cuban
community.   "I think it's splendid that they gave us our freedom today. It's a
double date to celebrate," said Puente, noting that he and his comrades were
celebrating the holiday openly and freely for the first time since Christmas was
banned in Cuba. That ban has now been lifted.   For Regalado, the timing of the
release also meant an early birthday gift, coming just a day before he turned
25.   They said they never gave up hope, and they blamed the Immigration and
Naturalization Service for prolonging their detention.   "We've been through a
long process, and we've suffered a lot. But finally justice has prevailed,"
Puente said.    The INS director's office in Miami, which made the decision to
release the men, did not return calls from the Times. But Fernandez and
co-counsel Dario Diaz said the agency still could appeal McHugh's order, and
they were preparing for that possibility.   "I have spent a long time trying to
find one case in U.S. jurisprudence where the INS has appealed," Diaz said. "I
can't find one," suggesting that the INS might never have even lost such a case.
"I'm tempted to say they never lost. We're kind of on virgin ground, legally
speaking."   The three men fled Cuba in August 1996 in a small plane that took
off from a suburb of Havana and ditched in the Gulf of Mexico about 30 miles
west of Fort Myers.   On their way out of Cuba, the men dropped several thousand
leaflets condemning the February 1996 attack in which Cuban MiG jets shot down
two unarmed planes from the Miami-based group Brothers to the Rescue, killing
four anti-Castro protesters.   At first, the refugees said they used a knife and
gun to commandeer the plane. Later, they said they only made up that story to
protect the plane's pilot, who they said lost his nerve and wanted to return to
Cuba.   A federal jury acquitted the men of air piracy last year. In his ruling
last week, McHugh concluded that the men had a well-founded fear of persecution
if they returned to Cuba.   McHugh also said the refugees should receive asylum
because Regalado had provided information to the FBI about the Cuban attack on
the Brothers to the Rescue planes.   "In that regard, the United States has a
vested interest in (the Cubans') presence and availability in this country,"
McHugh wrote.   Fernandez has said that Regalado was a "material witness" to
Cuban preparations to shoot down the Brothers to the Rescue planes. About a week
before the incident, Regalado and another man who worked for a small tourist
airline in Cuba spent several days flying a small plane toward Havana's shore at
different altitudes. Tracking them were Cuban MiGs in what Fernandez has
described as "a practice run to what ultimately happened."   With the refugees'
release, leading anti-Castro activists in Tampa scrapped their original plans
for Noche Buena and planned something bigger.   "The boys are free, but I don't
know where," Fernandez said early in the afternoon. "It looks like I may have
more people at my Noche Buena than I planned."   Thursday, the refugees put
aside their bitterness for a celebration.   Noche Buena, or "Good Night," is
usually the biggest night of the holiday season for Hillsborough County's
16,000-plus residents who were born in Cuba and their families.   "For the Cuban
culture, around the holidays this is the Night," said Dario Diaz, a law partner
of Fernandez's who has worked on the case.   For the celebration, Cuban families
traditionally marinate a pig in a sauce of garlic, oregano and sour orange
juice, then roast it for up to 10 hours over an open pit. The pork is served
with plantains, yucca (a root simmered in garlic), moros y christianos (black
beans and rice), figs, dates and turron, a pastry dessert made of crushed nuts
and sugar.   After an all-day party and succulent feast, Noche Buena typically
ends with a late-night church service.   At the Fernandez house Thursday night,
the traditional dinner was briefly delayed as the newly freed men, with obvious
delight, talked with reporters about their release.   "We always had faith. But
I wasn't expecting it to come this year," Puente said, flashing a smile at his
attorney.

LOAD-DATE: December 26, 1998

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DISTRIBUTION: CITY & STATE; METRO & STATE; TAMPA & STATE

GRAPHIC: BLACK AND WHITE PHOTO, THOMAS M. GOETHE, (2); COLOR PHOTO, THOMAS M.
GOETHE; COLOR PHOTO, (2); Jose Roberto Bello Puente hugs Angela Chaviano at a
Noche Buena party Thursday night at the Tampa home of his attorney., (CITY &
STATE, METRO & STATE); Attorney Ralph Fernandez, Adel Regalado Ulloa and Jose
Roberto Bello Puente celebrate Noche Buena Thursday night., (TAMPA & STATE);
Jose Roberto Bello Puente hugs Angela Chaviano at a Noche Buena party Thursday
night at the Tampa home of his attorney., (TAMPA & STATE); Leonardo Reyes
Ramirez, (TAMPA & STATE); Adel Regalado Ulloa, (TAMPA & STATE)

                    Copyright 1998 Times Publishing Company


                              79 of 280 DOCUMENTS

                         St. Petersburg Times (Florida)

               January 10, 1999, Sunday, 0 South Pinellas Edition

Welcome mat may be going out to a better class of immigrants

BYLINE: JIM FOX

SECTION: NATIONAL; THE CANADA REPORT; Pg. 14A

LENGTH: 634 words



Canada wants to admit a better class of immigrants while pulling in the welcome
mat on illegitimate refugees, cheats and frauds.   The federal government is
reviewing proposed Immigration Act changes aimed at speeding up proper refugee
claims and making it easier for immigrants to bring over their families.   Other
proposals would place less emphasis on the occupation of independent immigrants
and more on basic skills and ability to adapt in a fluid job market.   Business
and investor immigrants would find it harder to enter because more emphasis
would be placed on education and language.   The changes also would eliminate
part of an appeal process for serious criminals and impose measures to intercept
people carrying falsified documents before they get to Canada.Residents still
digging out from storms  Residents of southern Ontario and Quebec, buried under
three feet of snow last weekend, are digging out of several more inches this
weekend.   A massive storm stranded airline passengers in Toronto for up to
three days.   Meanwhile, the weather-delayed funeral for four adults and five
children who died in a New Year's Day avalanche in the Quebec Inuit community of
Kangiqsualujjuaq was held Wednesday.   Premier Lucien Bouchard has ordered an
inquiry into the deaths that occurred when tons of snow crashed into a school
gymnasium.In brief   Lawyer Schuyler "Skippy" Sigel, 62, and his wife Lynn, 57,
were abducted late Wednesday after their luxury car was bumped in Toronto's
affluent Rosedale area. Three men beat the Sigels, forced them into the trunk
and then went back to ransack their home. The couple managed to escape and call
police who are holding one suspect.    Alliance Quebec, an English lobby group,
is threatening to sue the Quebec government for not guaranteeing
English-language health and social services.    Five days after fire destroyed a
Quebec building housing the Sherbrooke Record, publication resumed
Thursday.Facts & figures  Canada's dollar soared by almost two U.S. cents to
close Friday at 66.09 U.S. cents. The U.S. dollar was worth $ 1.5130 Canadian
before exchange fees.   Unemployment in Canada remained at 8 percent in
December, the same as November and the lowest in 10 years.   There's no change
in the Bank of Canada key interest rate of 5.25 percent or the 6.75 percent
prime lending rate.   The Toronto Stock Exchange jumped to 6,868 points Friday
while Montreal was at 3,543 points, Alberta 1,801 points and Vancouver 408
points.   Lotto 6-49: (Wednesday) 6, 11, 30, 36, 37 and 48; bonus 24. (Jan. 2)
6, 28, 33, 34, 36 and 48; bonus 27.Regional briefs   A Dec. 31 fire caused by a
careless smoker killed two and injured 28 at a Halifax seniors home.    Robert
Chaulk, 29, whose release from custody once prompted a justice minister to
express concerns about public safety, is being held in Winnipeg on charges of
killing two neighbors on New Year's Day. Chaulk was found not guilty by reason
of insanity in the 1985 beating death of an 83-year-old man.    Operations were
postponed for thousands of people in Saskatchewan on Thursday after health-care
workers launched a 24-hour strike. The 12,000 members of the Canadian Union of
Public Employees walked out to back demands for higher pay.    Ron Huntington,
former member of Parliament and chairman of the Canada Ports Corp., died at his
British Columbia home Dec. 28. Huntington, 77, represented Capilano-Howe Sound
in the 1970s and 1980s.    A rare bottle of single-malt scotch stolen in
Edmonton is being held for ransom. Liquor store owner Don Koziak rejected a
telephoned request for $ 4,000 for the return of the insured bottle of Bowmore
scotch. The caller said the bottle, worth $ 12,000, will be auctioned at a
private club.

LOAD-DATE: January 11, 1999

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                    Copyright 1999 Times Publishing Company


                              80 of 280 DOCUMENTS

                         St. Petersburg Times (Florida)

               January 15, 1999, Friday, 0 South Pinellas Edition

McCollum bill would let deported convict return

BYLINE: MARY JACOBY; KATHERINE PFLEGER

SECTION: NATIONAL; Pg. 1A

LENGTH: 996 words

DATELINE: WASHINGTON



The Canadian son of an Orange County GOP official spent four years in Florida
prison.   For years, Orlando-area Rep. Bill McCollum worked to toughen
immigration laws to deport non-citizens who commit crimes.   But now that the
son of a Republican Party leader in his home base of Orange County has become
ensnared, he's asking for an exception.   Last week McCollum, one of the House
Republicans prosecuting the case against President Clinton in the Senate,
introduced legislation to bring 32-year-old Robert Anthony Broley back to the
United States from his native Canada.   Broley was expelled last month after his
release from a Florida prison, where he had spent four years on 13 charges of
theft, burglary, forgery and trafficking stolen goods.   McCollum's private
relief bill is a rifle shot that would help only Broley. It does not address the
plight of other deported immigrants who have complained that the law is too
harsh - and who in many cases have far less serious criminal records.   "The
foundation for those private bills is something exceptional, unusual,
extraordinary and an injustice, if not corrected. This case falls clearly within
the parameters of that," McCollum said Thursday after leaving the impeachment
trial.   McCollum said Broley is a former drug user who stole to finance his
addiction. He said the son of Orange County Republican Party treasurer Robert M.
Broley deserves mercy because he is trying to turn his life around.   When asked
whether his interest in Broley is connected to his father's role in the county
party, McCollum said, "Well, it coincidentally happens to be that that is true,
but that is not anything to do with my reasons for being involved in this case."

    McCollum said Broley's mother, Barbara Broley, has been a volunteer in his
re-election campaign, too. But he said neither Broley is a friend.   "I had met
the father literally once or twice and that's it," McCollum said.   The son has
a long criminal record dating back to 1984, when he was sentenced to community
supervision on burglary charges. He has been arrested on charges of drug
possession and driving under the influence, and in 1993 he was charged with
forging $ 4,175 worth of Orange County Republican Party checks.   Broley was
sentenced to prison in October 1994. He was released from the Marion
Correctional Institution last month and handed over to the U.S. Immigration and
Naturalization Service, according to Department of Corrections records.   For
privacy reasons, INS will not provide information on individual cases, said
Maria Elena Garcia, INS spokeswoman in Miami. But an aide to McCollum said
Broley already has been deported.   "I hope this is a sign he recognizes the law
went too far," Carol Wolchok, director of the American Bar Association's Center
for Immigration Law and Representation, said of McCollum's efforts.   In 1995,
McCollum sponsored a bill called the Criminal Alien Deportation Improvements
Act, saying on the House floor that past measures "have not gone far enough."
That bill, part of the GOP's Contract with America, was not enacted. But
provisions from it were recycled into the 1996 Illegal Immigration Reform and
Immigrant Responsibility Act. Of the bill that became law, McCollum said on the
House floor: "There are a few things in this bill that maybe I could quibble
over, but very few. . . . The bill is excellent."   Since then, however, the
act's criminal deportation provisions have caused controversy.   The law
expanded the list of felony convictions for which a non-citizen must leave the
country and made it retroactive. It requires deportation of alien residents who
have been sentenced to as little as a year in jail, regardless of whether their
sentence is suspended.   "You can be sentenced to go to jail and never serve a
day, and you can be deported," said Denyse Sabagh, past president of the
American Immigration Lawyers Association.   Moreover, the changes took away
immigration judges' discretion in deciding close-call deportation cases.
Stories abound of immigrants who have been wrenched from their families and sent
back to their native countries for youthful mistakes, or problems long in the
past.   In July, the St. Petersburg Times reported on the pending deportation of
20-year-old Hadi Alyasin to Syria, and the effect his loss had on his Panama
City, Fla., family. Alyasin had served two years in prison for having consensual
sex when he was 18 with a 12-year-old girl he thought was 16.   "That's one of
the problems with this law; it didn't take into account a lot of individuals who
would be caught up in it," said Josh Bernstein, National Immigration Law Center
policy analyst.   "It really shows that these ideas that might sound good in the
abstract, but once they are applied to real people have a very different
character," Bernstein said. "That's happening here. Mr. McCollum is taken by the
human drama."   McCollum said Broley "had a problem with drugs and he stole from
his parents in order to be able to feed his drug habit. And they had been
concerned about it," but even drug treatment programs didn't work. "Finally out
of exasperation, they decided the best way to get him off drugs was to swear out
a warrant for his arrest. He wasn't dealing drugs. He was using them."
McCollum said a further mitigating factor is that in prison, an equipment
accident left Broley with a disfigured face. Corrections records say Broley has
a 10-inch scar.  According to a description of the case McCollum published in
the Congressional Record, Broley was born in Canada and first came to the United
States in 1968 at age 2. He returned to Canada as a child, but from 1978 on had
lived more or less continuously in this country.   Both his parents are
naturalized citizens, McCollum wrote.- Times Washington bureau chief David Dahl
and Times researcher Kitty Bennett contributed to this report.

LOAD-DATE: January 15, 1999

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: COLOR PHOTO; Bill McCollum

                    Copyright 1999 Times Publishing Company


                              81 of 280 DOCUMENTS

                         St. Petersburg Times (Florida)

             January 20, 1999, Wednesday, 0 South Pinellas Edition

McCollum makes an exception

SECTION: EDITORIAL; EDITORIALS; Pg. 22A

LENGTH: 465 words



U.S. Rep. Bill McCollum doesn't mind being known as the driving force behind
some of the most punitive provisions in the 1996 immigration reform law. He is
proud of his efforts to purge the country of non-citizens who commit crimes. Yet
when a well-connected constituent of McCollum's gets caught in the legal chaos
created by the law McCollum helped conceive, the Orlando Republican jumps to
carve out an exception. What hypocrisy!   McCollum says he was motivated to
intervene in 32-year-old Robert Anthony Broley's deportation case because it was
"something exceptional, unusual, extraordinary and an injustice." The only thing
exceptional, unusual or extraordinary about Broley, a Canadian who spent four
years in prison after he stole to finance a drug addiction, is that his father
is a Republican Party leader in McCollum's district, and his mother worked as a
volunteer for the congressman's re-election campaign. As for injustice, it is
not Broley who is the victim. The real injustice has been done to the immigrants
who have committed far less serious crimes, yet were punished severely under the
new immigration law because they lacked Broley's political connections.
McCollum recently introduced legislation that would bring Broley, who already
has been returned to Canada under the immigration law, back to the the United
States, where he has lived for most of his life. The private bill would apply
only to Broley, who has a lengthy criminal record and who served time for
convictions on 13 charges of theft, burglary, forgery and trafficking stolen
goods. McCollum denies that his political connections to Broley's parents played
a role in his decision to intervene. Instead, the congressman says he was
motivated by mercy, because Broley is trying to turn his life around.   Maybe
so. But if that were the case, why hasn't McCollum shown compassion for the
thousands of other immigrants in Florida and elsewhere in the United States who
are in a similar predicament? The 1996 Immigration Reform and Immigrant
Responsibility Act greatly expanded the list of crimes for which non-citizens
can be deported for 20 years. It was written to apply retroactively, so that
legal permanent residents, even those living productive, law-abiding lives,
could be deported for a crime committed years ago. The law also stripped
immigration judges of the discretion to weigh mitigating factors when hearing
deportation cases.   Since the law took effect, critics have argued that it goes
too far. The solution, though, is not to make case-by-case exceptions for the
politically connected. It should be to change a law that is inherently unjust
and often applied arbitrarily. Broley may deserve a break. But so do many
others, and McCollum can't have it both ways.

LOAD-DATE: January 20, 1999

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: EDITORIAL

                    Copyright 1999 Times Publishing Company


                              82 of 280 DOCUMENTS

                         St. Petersburg Times (Florida)

                            January 22, 1999, Friday

Trapped in Thailand

BYLINE: LARA WOZNIAK

SECTION: NORTH OF TAMPA; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1264 words

DATELINE: BANGKOK, Thailand



(ran PC edition of PT)A local restaurant owner sends his wife and two sons back
to their homeland to comply with immigration laws. But what should have been a
trip of a few weeks has turned into a bureaucratic stalemate lasting more than a
year.   The 5-year-old boy sitting on the American's lap suddenly reached up and
pulled her ear to his down-turned lips.   "Please let my mommy back into
America," Tai Chulikavit whispered in perfect English.   More than 15 months
ago, Tai's father, Carrollwood restaurateur Narong "Tom" Chulikavit, 45, tried
to comply with an American immigration law asserting that illegal aliens - even
those waiting for their legal status to become final - must leave the country.
Tom's wife, Amornrat, wasn't yet a legal resident. So Tom sent Amornrat, and his
two children, Tai and Toon, 3, to Thailand.   Four days after Tom said goodbye
to his family at Tampa International Airport, Congress changed the law.
Amornrat, 30, never needed to leave the United States. But now, she can't get
legally return despite hundreds of letters to politicians on the family's
behalf.   Her two children, U.S. citizens by birth, don't understand why.   They
keep asking, "Mommy, what did you do wrong?" And they think all Western-looking
people have the right to let their mommy into the United States - if only the
boys ask nicely.   Amornrat took her sons with her 9,000 miles away to Thailand
because her husband runs Circles Cafe, in the Shoppes of Carrollwood on N Dale
Mabry Highway, and would not be able to rear the boys alone. They live with
Tom's mother, Patchree, on the outskirts of Bangkok, in a three-story concrete
home tucked between rice fields and a lotus flower farm.   By Thai standards,
the home is lavish, with two televisions, a Western-style bathroom, clean white
walls and a fenced-in area where the children can ride the tiny bikes their
father bought them. But new wheels and Nintendo can't replace their father.
Desperate for male attention, Tai and Toon clamored around their uncle at an
extended family luncheon last month. Their laughter makes Amornrat smile before
she chokes back a tear and says that they always played like that with their
father.   The boys are clearly loved, and as a result are smiling, giggling
children who are respectful of adults and the law.   Getting into their old
Suburu, the first words out of Tai's mouth were, "Buckle up." But Thai cars
usually don't have seat belts in the back seat. His Florida habit doesn't make
sense in Thailand.    When the boys arrived in Bangkok, they complained that
speaking Thai hurt their tongues. Now, they say they are forgetting English.
Sometimes they ask in English what a Thai word means. Amornrat, who picked up
English as a third language, struggles to teach them English at home, after
their days at pre-school.   Language isn't the only difference the boys faced.
When they first arrived in Thailand, they lived with Patchree, their
grandmother, in crowded, polluted Bangkok. Picture Dale Mabry near the stadium
after a football game lets out and you have a sense of Bangkok traffic on any
street on any day. Now add old cars, tuk-tuks (or motorized rickshaws that often
shoot out black plumes of smoke from their exhaust pipes) and huge buses to the
picture. Getting stuck in traffic is a bit like standing inside a closed garage
with the car motor running.  Within a week of their arrival, the boys were pale
and sickly looking, unaccustomed to their surroundings and homesick, Patchree
said. The cough-inducing air, noise and crowds were unlike anything they had
ever experienced living in the Country Place subdivision off Hutchison Road.
Tired of the commotion of Bangkok, Patchree recently moved the family to her new
home outside of the city, where it is quieter and more spacious. But the
mosquitoes, which can carry malaria, are rampant. Both of the boys' legs are
covered in bites.  But in Thailand, killing off the mosquitoes violates
Buddhism, which espouses not harming another being - even a mosquito. Air
conditioning remains a rare luxury.   The boys may well develop an immunity to
the bugs and stifling heat - after several illnesses - before their mother is
allowed back to the United States.   Tom moved to the United States from
Thailand in 1977. After working in New York restaurants for a decade, he and his
brother moved to Carrollwood, where the temperature was more like Thailand and
they had heard business was booming.   In 1988, they opened Circles. Tom
returned to Thailand in 1990 because his father was sick with lung cancer.
Amornrat was his father's nurse.   A quiet woman, Amornrat recalls her own
mother being ill, when Amornrat was a young girl. She said the nurses were terse
and rude. Amornrat decided then she wanted to be a nurse, and she wanted to be a
kind, gentle one. Her approach won the heart of Tom's father, who introduced his
son to the young nurse.   A year later, Amornrat went to Carrollwood on a
student visa to be with her new husband. Soon after she enrolled at the
University of South Florida, she became pregnant and quit school. Once she
stopped attending classes full time, her student visa expired and she became an
illegal alien.   In 1995, after Tai and Toon were born, Tom, a resident alien,
applied for his wife to receive a green card, which allows immigrants to live
and work in the United States. But the INS is so backlogged, it has not yet even
begun to process applications filed in 1995.   In September 1997, a little more
than 20 years after moving to America, Tom applied for U.S. citizenship, for if
he was a citizen, his wife would automatically be granted a green card. He had
not applied earlier because it would jeopardize his ownership of land in
Thailand.   The same month, Congress required all illegal aliens to leave the
country by Sept. 27, 1998. Only after leaving could they reapply for legal entry
to the United States. Tom was afraid that if his wife was caught in Carrollwood
after the deadline, she would be banned from the United States for 10 years. He
assumed she could leave the country and return with legal status within a few
weeks.   So Amornrat and the children left the country.   Few other illegal
aliens did, and days after the deadline, Congress decided that as long as they
paid a $ 1,000 fine, they could stay in the U.S. while applying for legal
status, rather than having to apply through U.S. consulates abroad.   "We tried
to obey the law, how come the law doesn't protect us?" asked Amornrat. "People
who don't obey the law live happily ever after."   Now, Amornrat must wait until
either her bid for a green card or her husband's citizenship is processed. It
could take years. Amornrat said the U.S. consulate in Thailand has refused to
give her a tourist visa to visit Carrollwood because it has no assurance that
her stay will be temporary.   Tom could move to Thailand, but he has spent more
than a decade building up Circles' business. He doubts he could support his
family as well if he worked in Thailand, whose faltering economy led the Asian
stock market crash two years ago.   So while Tom remains in Carrollwood,
dutifully caring for his business that supports a family living on the other
side of the world, the children grow up in Thailand with nice trousers and Polo
shirts but no dad.   "We have to be patient," said Amornrat. "But how do you
explain what you don't understand to little boys?"- Times staff writer Tim Grant
contributed to this report.

LOAD-DATE: January 22, 1999

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DISTRIBUTION: NORTH OF TAMPA; PASCO TIMES

GRAPHIC: COLOR PHOTO, by LIAM McMILLAN; BLACK AND WHITE PHOTO, by LIAM McMILLAN;
COLOR DRAWING, (2); Amornrat Chulikavit stands with her two children, Toon and
Tai on the rooftop of their home, which is in the country outside the teeming
city of Bangkok. (ran NTP); Amornrat Chulikavit stands with her two children
Toon and Tai on the rooftop of their home. (ran PT); a basketball (ran NTP); a
book (ran NTP)

                    Copyright 1999 Times Publishing Company


                              83 of 280 DOCUMENTS

                         St. Petersburg Times (Florida)

               January 25, 1999, Monday, 0 South Pinellas Edition

Family separated by government's delays

BYLINE: LARA WOZNIAK

SECTION: CITY & STATE; Pg. 1B

LENGTH: 1190 words

DATELINE: BANGKOK, Thailand



A Tampa restaurant owner sends his family to Thailand to comply with immigration
laws. Now a bureaucratic stalemate keeps them there.   The 5-year-old boy
sitting on the American's lap suddenly reached up and pulled her ear to his
down-turned lips.   "Please let my mommy back into America," Tai Chulikavit
whispered in perfect English.   More than 15 months ago, Tai's father, Tampa
restaurateur Narong "Tom" Chulikavit, 45, tried to comply with an American
immigration law asserting that illegal aliens - even those waiting for their
legal status to become final - must leave the country. Tom's wife, Amornrat
Chulikavit, wasn't yet a legal resident. So Tom sent her and his two children,
Tai and Toon, 3, to Thailand.   Four days after Tom said goodbye to his family
at Tampa International Airport, Congress changed the law. Amornrat, 30, never
needed to leave the United States. But now, she can't legally return despite
hundreds of letters to politicians on the family's behalf.   Her two children,
U.S. citizens by birth, don't understand why.   They keep asking, "Mommy, what
did you do wrong?" And they think all Western-looking people have the right to
let their mommy into the United States - if only the boys ask nicely.   Amornrat
took her sons with her 9,000 miles away to Thailand because her husband runs
Circles Cafe in the Shoppes of Carrollwood on N Dale Mabry Highway and would not
be able to rear the boys alone. They live with Tom's mother, Patchree, on the
outskirts of Bangkok, in a three-story concrete home tucked between rice fields
and a lotus flower farm.    By Thai standards, the home is lavish, with two
televisions, a Western-style bathroom, clean white walls and a fenced-in area
where the children can ride the tiny bikes their father bought them. But new
wheels and Nintendo can't replace their father.   Desperate for male attention,
Tai and Toon clamored around their uncle at an extended family luncheon last
month. Their laughter makes Amornrat smile before she chokes back a tear and
says they always played like that with their father.   The boys are clearly
loved and as a result are smiling, giggling children who are respectful of
adults and the law.   Getting into their old Subaru, the first words out of
Tai's mouth were, "Buckle up." But Thai cars usually don't have seat belts in
the back seat. His Florida habit doesn't make sense in Thailand.    When the
boys arrived in Bangkok, they complained that speaking Thai hurt their tongues.
Now, they say they are forgetting English. Sometimes they ask in English what a
Thai word means. Amornrat, who picked up English as a third language, struggles
to teach them English at home, after their days at preschool.   Language isn't
the only difference the boys faced. When they first arrived in Thailand, they
lived with Patchree, their grandmother, in crowded, polluted Bangkok. Picture
Tampa's Dale Mabry Highway near the stadium after a football game lets out, and
you have a sense of Bangkok traffic on any street on any day. Now add old cars,
motorized rickshaws that often shoot out black plumes of smoke from their
exhaust pipes and huge buses to the picture. Getting stuck in traffic is a bit
like standing inside a closed garage with the car motor running.   Within a week
of their arrival, the boys were pale and sickly looking, unaccustomed to their
surroundings and homesick, Patchree said. The cough-inducing air, noise and
crowds were unlike anything they had ever experienced living in Tampa.   Tired
of the commotion of Bangkok, Patchree recently moved the family to her new home
outside the city, where it is quieter and more spacious. But the mosquitoes,
which can carry malaria, are rampant. Both of the boys' legs are covered in
bites.   But in Thailand, killing off the mosquitoes violates Buddhism, which
espouses not harming another being - even a mosquito. Air conditioning remains a
rare luxury.   The boys may well develop an immunity to the bugs and stifling
heat - after several illnesses - before their mother is allowed back to the
United States.   Tom moved to the United States from Thailand in 1977. After
working in New York restaurants for a decade, he and his brother moved to Tampa,
where the temperature was more like Thailand and they had heard business was
booming.   In 1988, they opened Circles. Tom returned to Thailand in 1990
because his father was sick with lung cancer. Amornrat was his nurse, and he
introduced the pair.   A year later, Amornrat went to Tampa on a student visa to
be with her new husband. Soon after she enrolled at the University of South
Florida, she became pregnant and quit school. Once she stopped attending classes
full time, her student visa expired, and she became an illegal alien.   In 1995,
after Tai and Toon were born, Tom, a resident alien, applied for his wife to
receive a green card, which allows immigrants to live and work in the United
States. But the Immigration & Naturalization Service is so backlogged it has not
yet even begun to process applications filed in 1995.   In September 1997, a
little more than 20 years after moving to the U.S., Tom applied for U.S.
citizenship, for if he was a citizen, his wife would automatically be granted a
green card. He had not applied earlier because it would jeopardize his ownership
of land in Thailand.   The same month, Congress required all illegal aliens to
leave the country by Sept. 27, 1998. Only after leaving could they reapply for
legal entry to the United States. Tom was afraid that if his wife was caught in
Tampa after the deadline, she would be banned from the United States for 10
years. He assumed she could leave the country and return with legal status
within a few weeks.   So Amornrat and the children left the country.   Few other
illegal aliens did, and days after the deadline, Congress decided that as long
as they paid a $ 1,000 fine, they could stay in the United States while applying
for legal status, rather than having to apply through U.S. consulates abroad.
"We tried to obey the law; how come the law doesn't protect us?" Amornrat asked.
"People who don't obey the law live happily ever after."   Now, Amornrat must
wait until either her bid for a green card or her husband's citizenship is
processed. It could take years. Amornrat said the U.S. consulate in Thailand has
refused to give her a tourist visa to visit Tampa because it has no assurance
that her stay will be temporary.   Tom could move to Thailand, but he has spent
more than a decade building up Circles' business. He doubts he could support his
family as well if he worked in Thailand, whose faltering economy led the Asian
stock market crash two years ago.   So while Tom remains in Tampa, dutifully
caring for his business that supports a family living on the other side of the
world, the children grow up in Thailand with nice trousers and Polo shirts but
no father.   "We have to be patient,"  Amornrat said. "But how do you explain
what you don't understand to little boys?"- Times staff writer Tim Grant
contributed to this report.

LOAD-DATE: January 26, 1999

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: COLOR PHOTO, Photo by LIAM McMILLAN; Amornrat Chulikavit stands with
her two children, Toon and Tai, on the rooftop of their home, which is in the
country outside teeming Bangkok.

                    Copyright 1999 Times Publishing Company


                              84 of 280 DOCUMENTS

                         St. Petersburg Times (Florida)

             February 10, 1999, Wednesday, 0 South Pinellas Edition

Miami-Dade favored for school grants

SOURCE: Staff, wire reports; Ledger

SECTION: CITY & STATE; AROUND THE STATE; Pg. 5B

LENGTH: 878 words

DATELINE: TALLAHASSEE; MIAMI; FORT MYERS; BUNNELL; BARTOW



Schools in Miami-Dade County could get the lion's share of a $ 400-million state
fund set up for districts that need help paying for new schools.

Eleven districts applied for awards from the fund, which is designed to
supplement the school construction needs of districts that did all they could on
their own to pay for new schools but still fell short.

The Smart Schools Clearinghouse discussed dividing the $ 400-million among four
of the 11 districts at a meeting in December. The five-member board plans a
final vote next month.

Under the preliminary plan, Miami-Dade could get $ 375-million over five years.
Clay, Madison and Hendry school districts would share the rest.

The other applicants are Bay, Broward, Gulf, Hillsborough, Lee, Santa Rosa and
Walton.

The key to Miami-Dade's jackpot: It proposed using all the grant money to build
new schools rather than renovate old ones.

Broward and Hillsborough were disqualified for allocating too much money for
remodeling, said Spessard Boatright, executive director of the clearinghouse.

Detained immigrants to be released

MIAMI - Immigrants with nonviolent criminal records will be released next week
by the U.S. Immigration and Naturalization Service to ease overcrowding.

District directors will choose 1,500 detainees to be released Monday from
facilities in its Eastern Region, which includes Florida and 24 other states,
INS spokesman Dan Kane said.

The federal Illegal Immigration Reform and Immigrant Responsibility Act, enacted
in 1996, required that all noncitizens convicted of certain crimes be detained
by the INS for deportation. However, "We no longer have space and we have to
create space," Kane said. "We did not receive appropriate funding to carry out
our mission."

Krome Detention Center in west Miami-Dade County was built to hold 400 detainees
but was holding nearly 500 last month.

"We will release only those immigrants who INS believes . .  are not a threat to
public safety in Miami or any other community around the nation," Kane said. "We
will not be releasing terrorists, rapists or murderers or any other violent
criminals into the community."

Callers to quiz FGCU candidates

FORT MYERS - Florida Gulf Coast University will let the public quiz candidates
looking to become the school's next president.

The six finalists will take questions on live call-in shows broadcast by the
university's public television station when they are interviewed in April, an
advisory committee of students, faculty and residents decided Monday.

So far, 52 candidates have applied for the top position at Florida's newest
state university in southern Lee County, and more applications are expected. On
April 6, consultants will present the committee with their top six choices to
succeed Roy McTarnaghan, who plans to step down in May.

FIU president taking medical leave

Florida International University President Modesto Maidique is taking an
extended leave during treatment for an undisclosed medical condition, according
to the state Board of Regents.

FIU Provost Mark Rosenberg will serve as acting president of the university in
Miami until Maidique's return. The leave will extend to June 30, if necessary.

Transport of dolphin brings penalty

BUNNELL - A paramedic who used an ambulance to transport a sick dolphin to a
holding tank will be suspended for two shifts for violating county policy.

Roy Longo, a Flagler County paramedic for 10 years, transported the beached
dolphin to a 1,000-gallon water tank at a fire station 17 blocks away after it
washed ashore on Flagler Beach last week. The dolphin was placed in the tank
until officials from Sea World arrived to treat the animal.

County Administrator Chris Chinault, who issued the punishment, said
transporting animals by ambulance violates county policy. Longo's actions also
took an ambulance assigned to Flagler Beach out of service, he said.

"To go around transporting dolphins, cows, horses and dogs and cats and
parakeets, that would be against our policy," Chinault said Monday. "It's not
that we have anything against these animals, but we have a preference for having
the ability to transport people."

Sea World officials took the dolphin to Harbor Branch Oceanographic Institute in
St. Lucie County for treatment. The 1-year-old dolphin, nicknamed Little Orphan
Annie, is in guarded but stable condition.

Ex-columnist sentenced in scam

BARTOW - A former columnist for the Polk County Democrat weekly newspaper
pleaded guilty Tuesday to grand theft charges related to a fund-raising effort
that was supposed to pay for her cancer treatment.

Carrol P. McQuaig's claim to have cancer was never confirmed. The Democrat
published several articles on her claimed illness and her need for funds, based
on information she provided.

McQuaig, 52, was sentenced by Circuit Judge Susan Roberts to five years'
probation and told to pay $ 7,771 in restitution to the American Cancer Society.
The judge also told McQuaig that within 60 days she must write a letter to the
public accepting responsibility and apologizing. The Democrat has agreed to
publish the letter, Assistant State Attorney Angela Cowden said.

  McQuaig could not be reached for comment.

- Staff, Ledger and wire reports


LOAD-DATE: February 10, 1999

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DISTRIBUTION: CITY & STATE; METRO & STATE; TAMPA & STATE

TYPE: DIGEST

                    Copyright 1999 Times Publishing Company


                              85 of 280 DOCUMENTS

                         St. Petersburg Times (Florida)

              February 23, 1999, Tuesday, 0 South Pinellas Edition

Our too harsh immigration laws need changing

SECTION: EDITORIAL; LETTERS; Pg. 11A

LENGTH: 1903 words



Re: Immigrants are paying the price, letter, Feb. 11, and Toward humane
immigration laws, by Fred Hiatt, Feb. 13.

  First, with regard to the letter, I would like to clarify that in most cases
an "illegal alien" is not a criminal. Entering the United States (legally or
illegally) and staying beyond one's authorized stay may trigger civil (or
administrative) penalties, but, in most cases, not criminal ones, if "arrested"
by INS.

In Mrs. Amornant Chulikavit's case, she did not commit any crimes as defined
under our legal system. Her "crime," if any, was falling in love with a
permanent resident of the United States and desiring to stay with him here to
raise a family, rather than leaving the country when her stay expired.

Then, apparently, because of certain changes in the immigration law in 1996, she
felt it necessary to leave the United States and wait for a visa in her home
country. Unfortunately, under our current system, this process can now take up
to five years. If anything, we, as Americans, should feel sorry for the
Chulikavits that our laws are such that they would allow a husband to be
separated from his wife and children for several years.

This brings me to my second point: the need to move "toward humane immigration
laws," as Fred Hiatt describes in his column. As it was stated throughout his
piece, the 1996 laws are "too harsh." To read that even Rep. Bill McCollum now
says this is a milestone.

It is just too bad that he is reaching out to help one person, who really is a
convicted criminal (and I am not saying that this action is not warranted),
rather than reaching out to the Chulikavits and tens of thousands more like this
family who also need and deserve help.

Yes, the current immigration laws are too harsh and it is vital that our country
move toward humane immigration laws before more people are unnecessarily hurt.
These laws not only hurt the foreigners, they also hurt us as Americans, as well
as tarnish our image abroad. Congress makes the laws; INS only enforces them as
they are written. Congress can, and needs to, change the laws to make them more
humane.

Ellen Gorman, second vice president, Central Florida

Chapter, American Immigration Lawyers Association,

St. Petersburg

Learn to tolerate differences

Re: Putting the accent on clearer English, Feb. 13.

I was greatly dismayed by this article. It is surely a sign of the increasing
xenophobia and intolerance of our society that recent immigrants who speak
English now feel they must obliterate their native accents in order to succeed
here. As a country born of immigrants, we are still lucky enough to have a wide
variety of "American" accents, and one has to wonder which one of those accents
people like the Mendozas are being told to emulate. Is a Bostonian accent more
"American" than a Southern one?

Even more disturbing is that we seem to have lost sight of the fact that the
U.S. population represents less than 5 percent of the world's people; 95 percent
of people on the planet do not speak as we do. How can we expect to survive in
an increasingly global economy and polity if we cannot even tolerate a variety
of accents within the English language?

This trend represents a social policy which, just like our foreign policy, asks
us to turn our backs on the rest of humanity. We would be far better off in the
long run building tolerance and respect for the peoples of the world.

Rebecca A. Johns, St. Petersburg

Gender equity will help all students

  Re: Girls aren't the victims in our schools, by John Leo, Feb. 16.

John Leo's vicious attack on the American Association of University Women
Educational Foundation's work gives no hint that he has actually read and
studied our research. If Leo had done so, he would have realized that our
seven-year research has promoted nothing more "radical" than that all students
should have the opportunity to succeed in school!

Our 1992 report, "How Schools Shortchange Girls," documented real evidence of
gender bias in American schools. This report catalyzed educators, parents,
policymakers and researchers to improve the school environment. Leo then boasts
about our 1992 report's "sinking" reputation by citing a report by Judith
Kleinfeld that uses statistics from 1998. That is like using today's lower crime
rates to say a seven-year-old study on rising incidents of crime created a false
alarm.

In 1998 we released "Gender Gaps: Where Schools Still Fail Our Children." This
report revisits the issue of gender equity in America's schools and finds that
for all students to succeed, educators must address the learning needs of
different groups of students - boys and girls, rich and poor, black, white,
Asian. The foundation believes that the goal of gender equity is to create a
learning environment where neither girls nor boys feel confined by stereotypes
and expectations about who they are, what they can be or how they should act.

We do not believe that girls gain through boys' losses. Unlike John Leo, we have
never encouraged a "who-is-the-real-victim" tug of war over the educational
futures of our children. If Leo is really concerned about our educational
system, then he should join us in our commitment to see that all students truly
have a chance to achieve high standards in our public schools.

Margaret Hyde, state director, Public Policy,

American Association of University Women, Clearwater

Are men having trouble competing?

Re: Men slowly disappearing from Florida's campuses, Feb. 15.

It's interesting to note the consternation about the growing gender gap in
colleges across the country. It seems that women account for 55 percent of the
students in Florida's university system.

Am I the only one who sees the irony in the article's mention that at the USF
medical school, women account for only 40 percent of the medical students?
Before I get all bent about this, I want to know why, if women account for the
majority of college students, they don't also account for the majority of the
medical students at USF. And I'd like to know what the statistics for
professional schools look like nationwide. It may be that women would rather
deal with animal patients than male human patients. Or it may be that we're
still reserving the most prestigious and high-paying occupations for men.

As for making allowances for testosterone and noting that most teachers are
women, it seems to me that back when men constituted the majority of successful
students and women were largely kept out of colleges, testosterone still
existed, and most teachers at the pre-college level were still women.

It may simply be that now that men are actually being forced to compete on a
level playing field, they're not doing as well academically as women.   Does
this mean we need to tip the field once again?

I think not.

Sue Brown, Clearwater

Longer school year doesn't make sense

Re: Proposal may mean more class for some,

Feb. 19.

As a middle school teacher, I can see the allure of extending the school year.
Students can receive more instruction, plus they are off the streets and out of
parents' hair for a few extra weeks.

This is a typical knee-jerk reaction on the part of politicians. Instead of
spending tax dollars on reducing class size and ensuring each student has a
book, let's just extend the year!

The money spent on paying salaries, cooling the buildings (during the early
summer) and providing other facilities could be better used. In addition, how do
students who fail and require summer school fit in? If Gov. Jeb Bush gives us a
tax break, how will we pay for this anyway? If vouchers go through, will private
schools do it as well?

Jim Reed, St. Petersburg

Story was a corrupting influence

  In reference to your Cupid shrugged article on Feb. 10, I would like to
express my disgust.

It is a sad state of affairs when such goings-on as were printed in this story
are called "journalism." Are you that desperate for written material?

This story reads like a trashy romance novel! Due to the vulgar terminology, I
am surprised that a newspaper of your "supposed" caliber would print it. The St.
Petersburg Times is guilty once again of contributing to the corruption of any
minor who happens to pick up your paper. What about the child who has to look
through the Times for a school report? Is it appropriate or even "decent" that
you include swear words and slang terms for one-night immoral meetings? No
wonder American citizens everywhere see nothing wrong with our adulterous
president's actions! How much worse will the next generation be and how much
will articles like this add to their moral degradation?

For those of us who care about our society and our children, do us a favor: Put
an R rating on the St. Petersburg Times for profanity, sexual content and bad
writing!

James Lyman, New Port Richey

Republicans don't hate the poor

  Re: Dan Quayle can keep his advice, by Bill Maxwell, Feb. 17.

Pray tell, what did a Republican do to Bill Maxwell? Wasn't Abraham Lincoln a
Republican? I thought Democrats were more forgiving and willing to take all
points of view into consideration. I could tell Maxwell a tale of how I grew up
that did not include caviar and luxury, and I am a Republican.

Dan Quayle was not intending his message for the poor alone. I think his message
is directed to the  producers of pop culture. The traits of Maxwell's family and
the self-sufficiency of the poor are just the values that he speaks of.

Get over it, Mr. Maxwell. The Republicans don't hate the poor. They value them
and realize the lost potential to our country. We love our country and every
citizen in it. If a Republican wrote the article you wrote, it would not have
been printed and the writer would have been given a stern talking to. Shame on
you!

Mary Partington, Tarpon Springs

Falwell's aim is off

  My thanks to Mary Jo Melone for her Feb. 14 column (Tinky Winky runs into
Feary Jerry) and Don Addis for his Feb. 15 cartoon (Know your odd TV
characters).

I agree with educator Beverly Karrenbauer that Falwell ought to try looking for
good instead of "evil." I'm a 65-year-old fan who began watching the Teletubbies
when convalescing from an operation. I find them ridiculous and charming
characters who wear strange outfits over their bulky disposable diapers. I like
their saying please and thank you, sharing things and hugging. (Oops, by
Falwell's standards, those hugs are blatant displays of homosexual behavior when
exchanged between the same sex Tele-Tubbies.)

I was not aware of any social implications in their colors or in the shape of
their antennae. No matter what their "sexual" roles may be for some people, the
Teletubbies are teaching counting, dancing, sharing, manners and friendship to
my 3- to 5-year-old nieces and nephews who stop by to watch the evening
broadcast with me.

C.A. Dietrich, Pinellas Park

Share your opinions

We invite readers to write to us. Letters for publication should be addressed to
Letters to the Editor, P.O. Box 1121, St. Petersburg, FL 33731.

They can be sent by e-mail to letters@sptimes.com or by fax to 893-8675.

They should be brief and must include the writer's name, address and phone
number. Please include a handwritten signature when possible.

Letters may be edited for clarity, taste and length. We regret that not all
letters can be published.


LOAD-DATE: February 23, 1999

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: BLACK AND WHITE CARTOON, DON ADDIS; A congressman with a gavel reaches
into the Job Jar while commenting, "Okay, now that we've had our little laugh
..." Beside him, in a trash can, sits an 'impeachment whoopie cushion'.

TYPE: LETTER

                    Copyright 1999 Times Publishing Company


                              86 of 280 DOCUMENTS

                         St. Petersburg Times (Florida)

              February 23, 1999, Tuesday, 0 South Pinellas Edition

Son returned to unfamiliar land

BYLINE: AMY HERDY

SECTION: NATIONAL; Pg. 1A

LENGTH: 1131 words

DATELINE: TAMPA



Mishandled forms, two felonies and immigration law send a 25-year-old back to
the Thailand he left as a child.

After bringing home the toddler she and her husband adopted from Thailand, Pam
Gaul felt her life was complete.

Twenty years later, it's being ripped apart.

On Monday, immigration officials deported her only child to Bangkok, with little
prospect of his ever returning to the United States. Gaul plans to fly there
Wednesday to help her son adjust to his native but completely unfamiliar
country.

John Gaul III's fate is the result of a get-tough Congress, forgotten paperwork
and a teenage run-in with the law. As he trades his American life for an
uncertain future in Thailand, his mother vows to continue fighting to change
federal law, even if her son's battle is lost.

"The purpose of the original legislation was to combat terrorism," she said.
"It was not to tear families apart."

Until Monday, Gaul sat in a Bradenton jail cell through months of unsuccessful
appeals. Finally, his mother said, she stopped the process to save Gaul's
spirit.

"He went through a spell where he was languishing," Pam Gaul said. "The light
had gone out of his eyes."

And while she's happy he will be able to get on with his life, she's angry at
lawmakers who passed the 1996 Illegal Immigration Reform and Immigrant
Responsibility Act. The law expanded the list of felonies for which non-citizens
could be deported and made it retroactive. It's harsh, Gaul said, and should
address hard-core criminals, not people like her son.

She doesn't have connections to members of Congress like Rep. Bill McCollum,
R-Orlando, who is sponsoring a bill to bring home the son of the treasurer of
the Orange County GOP. Robert Anthony Broley was deported to Canada after
serving four years for theft, burglary, forgery and trafficking in stolen goods.

Gaul said McCollum's bill reeks of political favoritism. "It really saddens me
that the law doesn't apply on the same level to all people," she said.

"Unless we turn this law around and regain our sensitivity to the family," she
said, "he will never return. Never." Because he and his mother appealed his
case, Gaul, 25, will not be allowed to petition to return to the United States
for 20 years, and his mother doubts he would be granted approval even then.

And so, as she prepares to help him start a new life, she mourns that she won't
be there to share it with him. She plans to stay in Bangkok for two weeks but
must return to the United States and her job as a respiratory therapist to
support her son financially through his transition.

"I really am genuinely excited for him," she said. "But I may not be able to see
him on his wedding day, or be there for the birth of my first grandchild.

"My head knows that this is the best for him, but somebody tell my heart."

Her heart's longing for motherhood led Gaul and her husband, John, to adopt
their son from Bangkok through an international agency in 1979. In the first
photo they saw of him, he was sickly and small for a 2-year-old.

The process took more than two years. The Gauls and the child they named John
III exchanged pictures and mail as they waited.

She remembers seeing him for the first time at JFK International Airport in New
York.

"When he saw us, he started shouting, "Mai! Pai!' " she said, which in Thai
means "mom" and "dad." She began to cry.

"That was my son."

After completing the adoption in New Jersey, where they lived at the time, they
were issued an American birth certificate, which they filed with the state. They
kept keepsakes of his heritage: a Peter Pan tape in Thai, some bracelets and a
Buddhist medallion.

"At first it was very relevant," Gaul said, but "he became Americanized."

In 1982 Pam and her son moved to Tampa - she and her husband had separated -
where John attended private school and played soccer, baseball and basketball.
Though his parents later divorced, John remained close to his father.

When John was 17, the family planned an overseas trip. He applied for a
passport. It was denied.

"Even though he had an American birth certificate and American parents, he was
not recognized as being a citizen," Pam Gaul said.

Because he was adopted by American parents, John could have been granted
automatic citizenship if the Gauls had filed the proper application with the
U.S. authorities before John became an adult. But they never knew that, Pam Gaul
said.

After they learned of the situation, Pam Gaul immediately applied for her son's
citizenship. The Immigration and Naturalization Service rejected it because she
submitted the wrong fee. She submitted a second packet with the correct fee
while her son was still 17, she said, but by the time it was processed and a
hearing scheduled, John Gaul had turned 18. At that point, he was no longer
eligible for automatic citizenship through adoption.

The family was devastated.

"We talked on the way home," Gaul said, "about how he could study, take the
test. Then he got into trouble, and that was that."

The trouble she referred to was a gang called the Latin Kings, which Gaul
believes her son joined to find an identity.

At 19, he was convicted in Tampa of writing worthless checks and stealing a car,
both felonies.

He served 20 months in state prison and planned to apply for citizenship when he
was released Dec. 31, 1996. Neither he nor his mother was aware of the changed
law, she said. When he was released, immigration officials took him straight to
the deportation center in Bradenton, where he stayed four months before his
mother bailed him out.

Despite an immigration judge's ruling that the INS was "totally to blame" for
taking too long to process Gaul's application, there was nothing anyone could
do: The 1996 law also took away immigration judges' discretion to overturn
contested deportation cases.

Last July, Gaul was ordered back to the Bradenton jail cell to await
deportation, which finally happened Monday.

Now Gaul is carrying a letter written in Thai, which he does not understand,
explaining his situation to Thai immigration officials and asking that he be
turned over to Holt International, the agency that arranged his adoption.

This is his mother's only comfort: The same two social workers who were his
caseworkers when he was a toddler are meeting Gaul today when he arrives at the
Bangkok airport. They have been working to find him a place to live and a school
to attend.

Although her son has been tutored in Thai culture, Gaul fears Thai officials
will see him only as a U.S. criminal outcast.

But that's not her biggest fear.

"It's that he might feel so rejected," she said through tears, "that he will
lose hope.

"We're all part of an American family, and this is the total rejection."


LOAD-DATE: February 23, 1999

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: COLOR PHOTO; BLACK AND WHITE PHOTO, BARBARA P. HERNANDEZ, (2); John
Gaul III; Pam Gaul packs her son's clothes Monday.; Pam Gaul packs her son's
clothes. (ran NP LT ET SS)

                    Copyright 1999 Times Publishing Company


                              87 of 280 DOCUMENTS

                         St. Petersburg Times (Florida)

             February 25, 1999, Thursday, 0 South Pinellas Edition

Palestinian wins INS appeal

SECTION: NATIONAL; Pg. 17A

LENGTH: 342 words



A Michigan immigrant who for more than a decade fought secret government
evidence alleging his ties to a terrorist group, has won his case on appeal and
will remain in the United States.

Imad Hamad, 38, received a decision in his favor from the Board of Immigration
Appeals. The BIA upheld an immigration judge's October ruling permitting Hamad
to stay. The BIA called government charges of terrorist ties to a Palestinian
political group unproven, uncorroborated and vague, making Hamad eligible for
permanent resident status, a step shy of citizenship.

"It is the first time in my life I don't have to use the word stateless in front
of my name," Hamad said Wednesday from Dearborn, Mich. A Palestinian refugee, he
has lived in the United States since 1980 and applied for permanent residency
when he married a U.S. citizen in 1991.

The Immigration and Naturalization Service had introduced information that Hamad
had participated in a rally of the Popular Front for the Liberation of Palestine
in the early 1980s - an activity INS said made him an associate of terrorists.
Much of the government's case was secret. After Hamad's court victory last
October, INS appealed.

Support for Hamad from Michigan legislators and civic leaders helped prompt a
speedy BIA review. The decision was announced Friday.

The father of three intends to fill out paperwork for permanent residency before
the end of the week.

Hamad is one of about two dozen immigrants, almost all Muslims and Arabs, who
have been jailed or ordered deported on secret government evidence alleging ties
to terrorists. A Tampa man, Mazen Al-Najjar, has been detained for almost two
years on secret evidence while he appeals his deportation. The immigrants say
they are the victims of prejudice and Americans' fear of terrorism.

To succeed after so many years should give hope to those still fighting, said
Hamad.

"This country is bigger than the INS. It is moral and just," Hamad said. "I will
always be part of any fight to protect and preserve civil liberties."


LOAD-DATE: February 25, 1999

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                    Copyright 1999 Times Publishing Company


                              88 of 280 DOCUMENTS

                         St. Petersburg Times (Florida)

                             March 07, 1999, Sunday

An immigrant's beliefs can be cause for deportation

BYLINE: ROBYN E. BLUMNER

SECTION: PERSPECTIVE; Pg. 6D

LENGTH: 929 words



When 13 Immigration and Naturalization Service agents burst into his Long Beach
apartment, guns drawn, Michel Shehadeh could not have known that he would be at
the center of a 12-year legal battle that would come to mark the nadir of First
Amendment rights for immigrants.

In a decision last month, a majority of U.S. Supreme Court justices reached
beyond the issues before them and ruled that immigrants can be targeted for
deportation on the basis of their political views. The long, convoluted history
of Reno vs. the Arab-American Anti-Discrimination Committee demonstrates how
aggressively single-minded our government can be when going after people who
support unpopular causes.

In 1987, Shehadeh was one of seven Palestinians and a Kenyan rounded up for
deportation because, the government charged, they advocated "world communism" in
violation of the McCarren-Walter Immigration Act. When those provisions of the
McCarthy-era act were later found unconstitutional and repealed by Congress, the
INS charged the deportees with being members of a terrorist group, the Popular
Front for the Liberation of Palestine, the Marxist arm of the Palestine
Liberation Organization.

Georgetown University Law Center professor David Coles, who represents the "L.A.
8," says the activities the government cites as immigration law violations
include distributing literature for the PFLP, recruiting members and raising
funds for the group. Shehadeh says the proof came down to FBI allegations that
the group "dressed like terrorists and sang terrorist songs." He claims the FBI
agents stereotyped Arabic culture as terrorist.

Yet even if the L.A. 8 had engaged in all the political activities alleged by
the government, their actions would be perfectly legal and protected by the
First Amendment if done by an American citizen. Americans have a right, for
example, to support the lawful activities of groups such as Operation Rescue,
Greenpeace and the PLO, even though at times members of these groups have used
violence to further their cause.

So the question becomes: Is there a difference between citizens and aliens under
the First Amendment? In 1994, U.S. District Court Judge Stephen Wilson said
there was not, and ruled that the L.A. 8 had been unconstitutionally targeted
for deportation based on their political beliefs.

Although two members of the L.A. 8, including Shehadeh, are legal permanent
residents, six members have technical visa violations, such as working at a
convenience store without proper work authorization and failing to take enough
college credits. That alone, said the INS, made them deportable. But Wilson
found instead that they had been the victims of selective enforcement. INS had
taken rules it generally doesn't enforce and conveniently used them to deport
people with unpopular ideologies. His decision was upheld by a federal appeals
court.

In the meantime, Congress passed the Immigration Reform Act of 1996, which
stripped away the power of the federal courts to enjoin deportation proceedings
on constitutional grounds until the INS hearing process was completed. When the
government appealed the L.A. 8 case to the Supreme Court, the court agreed to
hear the issue of how the new immigration law applied. In an 8-1 ruling, the
court upheld the new limits on federal court jurisdiction in the immigration
context, allowing deportation proceedings against the L.A. 8 to proceed.

Then the court did something startling. It ruled on the merits of the L.A. 8's
constitutional claim even though the court had specifically said it wouldn't.
So, without the benefit of briefing or oral argument on the subject, Justice
Antonin Scalia wrote an opinion joined by four fellow justices that said the INS
could selectively enforce immigration law violations against aliens whose views
the government disfavors.

The court wrote a virtual invitation to the INS to run anyone out of their
adopted country for any reason. Scalia wrote that when the government is trying
to deport an immigrant, it "should not have to disclose its "real' reasons for
deeming nationals of a particular country a special threat." Scalia went so far
as to approve deportations whenever our government "simply wish(es) to
antagonize a particular foreign country by focusing on that country's
nationals."

It's as though decisions by the INS can be made as an extension of foreign
policy.Scalia's ruling means people who have come to this country to make a new
life can be used as human pawns by our State Department. Cole believes the
decision applies even to the two L.A. 8 members who are permanent legal
residents. He says the court's ruling gives the INS the power to merely accuse
legal residents of engaging in verboten political activity and deport them
without having that conclusion second-guessed by the courts.

Shehadeh, who now works as Western regional director of the Arab-American
Anti-Discrimination Committee, says the court's reasoning means "what happened
to the Japanese-Americans during World War II was okay. The government may now
pick any legal immigrant and deport them if it disapproves of their political
opinions."

He believes that immigrants will be afraid to engage in politics and notes that
the ultimate losers will be American citizens who won't have the benefit of
opinions other than the official government line on foreign policy matters.

"It's McCarthyism not for communists but for immigrants," Shehadeh says.

He's right. America is now only the land of the free for those lucky enough to
hold citizenship.


LOAD-DATE: March 8, 1999

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: COLUMN

                    Copyright 1999 Times Publishing Company


                              89 of 280 DOCUMENTS

                         St. Petersburg Times (Florida)

                March 14, 1999, Sunday, 0 South Pinellas Edition

IMMIGRATION UPDATES // Deported after brush with law

BYLINE: SUSAN TAYLOR MARTIN

SECTION: NATIONAL; Pg. 9A

LENGTH: 325 words



Like many young men whose goals are uncertain, Hadi Alyasin of Pasco County
wound up in the army. Not the U.S. Army but the Syrian army - 7,000 miles from
home, in a country he knew nothing about.

 Alyasin was deported to Syria last fall because of a crime that wasn't even a
deportable offense at the time he committed it. In 1996, when he was 18, he had
consensual sex with a 12-year-old girl he thought was older. He pleaded guilty
to a lewd and lascivious act in the presence of a child, and was sentenced to
two years as a youthful offender.

   Although that was Hadi's only crime, it was enough to run him afoul of the
1996 Immigration Reform Act. The law said any non-citizen who had been convicted
of an aggravated felony could be deported regardless of how long ago the crime
had been committed. And it expanded the definition of aggravated felonies to
include many previously non-deportable crimes, like lewd and lascivious acts.

  Even after Hadi served his sentence, he was detained several more months while
immigration officials tried to find a country to which they could deport him.
Lebanon, where he lived until he was 12, refused to take him because he wasn't a
Lebanese citizen. Syria, where his father was born, finally agreed to accept him
even though Hadi had set foot on Syrian soil only once.

As the son of a Syrian citizen, Hadi, 21, is considered Syrian and hence was
required to start mandatory military service as soon as he arrived. He has been
able to make only one call to his parents, who speak little English and were
counting on Hadi to help support them as they grow older.

Hadi is banned from entering the United States for 20 years, and his father, who
makes minimum wage as a groundskeeper, fears he will never have enough money to
visit him.

How is Hadi adapting to his new life?  "He don't like it," says the elder
Alyasin. "He's very angry, but there's nothing he can do about it."


LOAD-DATE: March 15, 1999

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: BLACK AND WHITE PHOTO; Hadi Alyasin, 21

                    Copyright 1999 Times Publishing Company


                              90 of 280 DOCUMENTS

                         St. Petersburg Times (Florida)

                March 14, 1999, Sunday, 0 South Pinellas Edition

IMMIGRATION UPDATES // Threatened by past mistakes

BYLINE: SUSAN TAYLOR MARTIN

SECTION: NATIONAL; Pg. 9A

LENGTH: 326 words



Pasco County resident Catherine Caza admits she has made a few mistakes.

When she was barely out of her teens, she sold some LSD and Quaaludes to a
boyfriend who turned out to be an undercover cop. She pleaded guilty and was put
on five years' probation. In 1993, as a single mother struggling to get by on
welfare, Caza took a part-time job without reporting it. She paid back the $
1,800 she owed before she even went to court.

Now, as a college student and volunteer, Caza has done a good enough job
straightening out her life that she was granted a formal pardon last year by
late Gov. Lawton Chiles. But even that might not keep the Immigration and
Naturalization Service from deporting Caza, who was born in Canada but has spent
most of her 42 years in Florida.

   "Unless we can change things, I think the likelihood (of deportation) is very
great," she says.

 In her limited free time, Caza is lobbying Congress to change the 1996
Immigration Reform Act, which permits the immediate deportation of anyone
convicted of a drug crime regardless of how long ago it occurred. A growing
legion of critics say the law is especially unfair to long-time legal residents
like Caza.

While she realizes there are worse places to be sent than Canada, Caza worries
about what would happen to her 72-year-old diabetic mother who lives across the
street from her in Holiday. She either would have to remain here alone or move
to Canada, "where she'd be stuck in the house all the time because she never did
drive in the snow," says Caza.

Caza, who has an 8-year-old daughter, will soon graduate with honors from St.
Petersburg Junior College with a degree in social work. In January, she started
training with Americorps, the domestic Peace Corps, with the goal of helping
other ex-offenders.

"We have a drug problem in this country," says Caza. "I'd like to use what I
know in my own community, not Canada, where I don't know a soul."


LOAD-DATE: March 15, 1999

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: BLACK AND WHITE PHOTO; Catherine Caza, 42

                    Copyright 1999 Times Publishing Company


                              91 of 280 DOCUMENTS

                         St. Petersburg Times (Florida)

                March 14, 1999, Sunday, 0 South Pinellas Edition

IMMIGRATION UPDATES // No end in sight to separation

BYLINE: SUSAN TAYLOR MARTIN

SECTION: NATIONAL; Pg. 9A

LENGTH: 344 words



Many Tampa bay residents have been affected by the 1996 Immigration Reform Act.
Here is an update on someof those the Times has written about in the past year.

When Kelly Sutton tried to return to Florida in January 1998, she ran into a
delay at the U.S.-Canadian border. That delay has lasted 14 months, with no end
in sight.

Sutton, a Canadian citizen, had been working at a Clearwater nursing home and
was engaged to the Florida man who is now her husband, Justin Hill. The two were
returning from a trip to Toronto when inspectors of the Immigration and
Naturalization Service stopped them at the border in Detroit and grilled Sutton
for hours about why she lacked the proper visa. To the couple's horror, she was
deported on the spot - for five years.

Sutton is among thousands of foreigners who have fallen victim to the "expedited
removal" clause of the 1996 Immigration Reform Act. Critics say expedited
removal, which allows immediate deportation without benefit of legal counsel or
hearing, is a grossly unfair process that in effect makes the INS judge, jury
and executioner.

The couple's problems increased when they discovered they were expecting a baby.
Hill considered moving to Canada, but ruled it out because he has a good job
with the U.S. Postal Service and worried about starting over in another country.
For more than a year, he has had to maintain two households and drive 3,000
miles round trip to visit his wife. In January, he arrived shortly before she
gave birth to Isabella.

"I work approximately 60 or 70 hours a week," says Hill, who is also employed by
his father's painting business. "It's not easy paying my bills, plus her bills
and her rent and the baby's needs, which are non-stop."

The couple have applied for a waiver of deportation and she hopes to meet soon
with U.S. consular officials in Montreal to see about getting a visa. If all
goes well, Hill hopes his family can join him in Florida by the summer.

But there are no guarantees. "It's to the point," he sighs, "where it seems
never-ending."


LOAD-DATE: March 15, 1999

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: BLACK AND WHITE PHOTO, Family photo; Kelly Sutton and Justin Hill,
shown with daughter Isabella

                    Copyright 1999 Times Publishing Company


                              92 of 280 DOCUMENTS

                         St. Petersburg Times (Florida)

                March 14, 1999, Sunday, 0 South Pinellas Edition

IMMIGRATION // Immune to the law?

BYLINE: SUSAN TAYLOR MARTIN

SECTION: NATIONAL; Pg. 1A

LENGTH: 3045 words



Despite numerous run-ins with the law, Canadian citizen Bob Probert is allowed
to remain in this country while hundreds with similar criminal backgrounds await
deporation. What makes him special? He's a professional hockey player.

To customs inspectors at the Detroit-Windsor Tunnel, there was ample reason to
pull aside Robert Alan Probert as he entered the United States on March 2, 1989.

The burly, young Canadian looked drunk and disoriented. Open beer bottles
littered his car. During a subsequent strip search, a plastic bag with 14.3
grams of cocaine fell out of his underwear.

  Probert, a Canadian citizen, eventually pleaded guilty to importing cocaine
and was sentenced to three months in prison. It was exactly the type of crime
for which thousands of other foreigners are being deported from the United
States under the harsh, retroactive provisions of the 1996 Immigration Reform
Act.

But Probert wasn't an ordinary foreigner and what happened to him was by no
means typical of what happens to most foreigners with a drug offense in their
past.

  Just 23 at the time of his arrest, Probert already was a top player for the
Detroit Red Wings of the National Hockey League. An imposing 6-foot-3, he earned
more than $ 200,000 a year for his role as an enforcer.

  Probert's battles weren't limited to opposing players. He had struggled for
years with such a serious substance abuse problem that he already had been
arrested three times for suspicion of drunken driving and once for assaulting a
cop in a barroom brawl. Even before his cocaine arrest, the U.S. Public Health
Service had declared Probert could be barred from the United States because of
"chronic alcohol dependency."

But despite his substance abuse, despite his drug conviction, despite numerous
other run-ins with the law, Probert remains in this country. Today he plays for
the Chicago Blackhawks and lives with his wife and two young daughters in a $
700,000 home in Chicago.

     Meanwhile, hundreds of other people with similar criminal backgrounds are
locked up in jails, awaiting deportation and a 20-year ban on re-entering the
United States.

  How Probert has avoided such a fate surprises even some seasoned immigration
lawyers.

"His record is terrible and I find it hard to explain how these things were
accomplished," says Michigan lawyer William Dance, who teaches immigration law
at Wayne State University and the Detroit College of Law.

     Probert, now 33, declined to be interviewed for this story. "Our main
concern is that Probie has worked real hard to overcome the obstacles he's had
in his life," said Jim DeMaria, a Blackhawks' spokesman. "As far as his life is
concerned, he seems to have everything back in order right now. What's in the
past we've gone through and we'd kind of like to leave it there."

 Probert has not gone unpunished. In addition to his prison term, he spent
months in court-ordered treatment programs and was twice barred by the NHL from
playing, once for an entire season.

 But viewed in another light, Probert's history underscores how money, celebrity
and athletic skill have enabled one man to avoid the snares of a draconian law
that has shattered the lives of so many others.

As part of its crackdown on drug traffickers and other foreign-born criminals,
Congress passed the Immigration Reform and Immigrant Responsibility Act in 1996.
It targeted two groups of non-citizens: those who had been convicted of
aggravated felonies, like murder, and those who had been convicted of violating
any law relating to controlled substances, except for small amounts of
marijuana. It didn't matter how long ago the crime occurred - if you ever had
been convicted, you were immediately deportable from the United States.

   Since 1996, the Immigration and Naturalization Service has deported more than
121,000 people under the act's criminal provisions. Thousands more are facing
removal. Among them are several Tampa Bay residents, including one woman who
straightened out her life after selling drugs to an undercover agent 19 years
ago.

Probert might have been just another statistic, forced to leave the country that
has made him a million-dollar sports star. But he had the benefit of expert
lawyers, sympathetic judges and rich, influential employers - a potent
combination not available to the vast majority of those facing deportation.

    Said John Ovink, a Tampa immigration lawyer: "You have families that have
been together 10, 20 years that all of a sudden are being ripped apart because
their daddy or mommy isn't a famous sports hero."

"There are no more chances'

Bob Probert's athletic ability brought him opportunity and trouble at an early
age.

Born in Windsor, Ontario, where his father was a sergeant on the police force,
Probert so excelled at hockey that scouts began eying him when he was 15. In
1982, he was drafted into Canada's top amateur league and, like many other young
players, moved away from home for expert coaching.

Bereft of parental discipline and under pressure to live up to his potential,
Probert began the cocaine and alcohol abuse that would repeatedly threaten his
career, court records show.

In 1985, the year he started playing for Detroit, he was arrested in suburban
Redford, Mich., for driving under the influence of liquor and fleeing and
eluding a police officer. It was his first arrest and Probert, then 20, got the
first of what would be many breaks. The court let him plead guilty to a lesser
charge of driving while impaired and threw out the other charge.

Within a year and a half, Probert was arrested three more times - once for a
tavern fight with a policeman and twice on drunken driving charges. A week
before Christmas 1986, he had a blood-alcohol level more than twice the legal
limit when he smashed his new Monte Carlo into a concrete utility pole in
Windsor, across the river from Detroit.

  The Red Wings suspended Probert but reinstated him five days later after he
promised to behave.

   "This time, I really want to believe him," said Jacques Demers, then
Detroit's coach, now coach of the Tampa Bay Lightning. "I don't care if he
scores 40 or 50 goals. If I even get a sniff of problems from him, he's done.
There are no more chances."

But a year later, after Probert apparently resumed drinking, the Red Wings sent
him to a Windsor alcohol treatment facility. "He had to go in or that was it,"
Demers said.

The Red Wings continued to support Probert. The team got authorities to reverse
their earlier stance and issue Probert a work visa for the 1987 season, denied
after he was ruled excludable from the United States because of chronic alcohol
dependency. And in March 1987, after Probert was thrown out of the treatment
center for breaking its rules, Demers still seemed conflicted about what to do
with his talented left wing.

"As soon as the season's over we're going to have to decide his future with this
hockey club," Demers said. "Everything's been so positive around here, and he
keeps putting a black sheet in front of the positive."

  When time came to get Probert's visa for the 1988-89 season, even the Red
Wings acknowledged they wouldn't be surprised if it were denied. But the team
submitted letters of recommendation from a Windsor police detective, a prominent
Windsor citizen and a Red Wings executive vice president. The INS district
director granted Probert a waiver of inadmissibility and he got the visa, based
"upon your distinguished merit and ability."

Probert hits bottom

On March 2, 1989, Probert hit bottom, as he later described it, when he was
arrested at the border. Inspectors found a plastic bag containing a cocaine mill
with white power residue, and another bag containing 14.3 grams or about half an
ounce of cocaine.

 Probert's career seemed destined for a sudden, if predictable end. He faced 20
years in prison. Then-NHL President John Ziegler expelled him from the league,
warning that "if (drug) use is your choice, we want you out of our business."
The INS revoked its waiver of inadmissibility and began deportation proceedings.

  But the same talent that helped Probert get into so much trouble would now
help get him out of it.

  "The career and earning capacity for a professional hockey player is generally
short-lived," one of his attorneys said in arguing against deportation. "Based
on all the facts, it would be beyond the intent of the law and sound social
policy to prevent an individual as young and talented as Defendant Probert from
earning a livelihood and thereby wasting his great potential in his vocation."

U.S. District Judge Patrick Duggan agreed. Although he sentenced Probert to
three months in prison, he granted a Judicial Recommendation Against
Deportation, an order that barred the INS from using Probert's drug arrest as
the basis for deporting him.

At the time, judicial recommendations were uncommon enough that many lawyers had
never heard of them. In fact, such orders weren't allowed in cases involving
controlled substances like cocaine. But one of Probert's attorneys found a way
around that.

While judicial recommendations weren't available to people convicted of drug
crimes, they were available to people convicted of "aggravated felonies."
Because immigration law classified Probert's crime as an aggravated felony,
"that was a very narrow door that we snuck through," says lawyer Marshal Hyman.

  The INS tried to deport Probert on two other grounds - his alcoholism and the
fact he was unemployed because of his expulsion from the NHL. In October 1990,
Probert was ordered to report for mandatory detention until he could be deported
to Canada. His lawyers won a permanent injunction, but not before prompting this
angry comment from the INS:

 "Mr. Probert remains an alien within the borders of the United States, a guest
who abused this nation's hospitality and who now seeks to avoid the logical and
inevitable consequences of his own voluntary criminal activity. To fail to apply
the act to Mr. Probert, as it would apply to anyone else, would disserve the
public interest."

"Charge me with the usual'

 By early 1993, Probert seemed to be getting his life in order. A judge ruled
that he no longer had to be drug tested every 60 days because he had tested
negative for more than than 18 months. The NHL had reinstated him and the INS
granted a waiver allowing him to travel freely in and out of the United States
for the first time in nearly four years, enabling him to play full time with the
Red Wings.

Then came July 15, 1994.

Probert was riding his motorcycle in a Detroit suburb when he crashed into a
car. "Just charge me with the usual, man," he slurred as police approached him
moments later. Tests revealed the presence of cocaine and a blood-alcohol level
of .31, three times the legal limit.

The Red Wings waived Probert almost immediately. "We have spent all too much
time in the past 10 years dealing with his problems," said Jimmy Devellano, the
team's senior vice president.

Within days, the Chicago Blackhawks signed Probert to a $ 6.6-million, four-year
contract. However, he was forced to sit out the entire lockout-shortened 1994-95
season after the NHL placed him on inactive status for league-supervised
treatment.

 Despite the cocaine in his system, Probert was not charged with a drug crime.
And despite his extraordinarily high blood-alcohol content, a judge let him
plead guilty to a lesser charge of driving while visibly impaired. "You've been
this route before - I wish you good luck," the judge said.

Since he returned to active status in late 1995, Probert has burnished his
reputation as a tough guy on the ice. He ranks third among active NHL players in
total penalty minutes, and sixth overall.

  Off the ice, Probert appears to have stayed trouble-free.

"I think I've changed," he told the Detroit Free Press in 1995, shortly after
the birth of his first daughter. "I have things now to be responsible for; I
never really had that in the past."

"Good towns for his troubles'

Like most other foreign-born professional athletes, Probert has worked in the
United States under a P-1 non-immigrant visa, court records show. Although his
drug convictions technically make him inadmissible to this country, the INS can
grant waivers for anything except terrorism and genocide.

    "Clearly the law recognizes that people can and do rehabilitate themselves,"

 says Russell Bergeron, an INS spokesman. "For almost every category of
inadmissibility, there is a waiver and in each instance the waiver is considered
on the merits of that individual case."

The INS does not keep statistics on the number of waivers granted, and
immigration lawyers say it is difficult for the average person to get one.

"The INS is very stingy with waivers in practice," says Jan Pederson, a
Washington, D.C., lawyer who specializes in immigration law. "Were (Probert) not
an athlete or were he from Mexico, he's out of here."

Pederson and other experts also complain that the 1996 Immigration Reform Act
stripped judges of all discretion in deciding whether to deport a person.
Judicial Recommendations Against Deportation, such as the one Probert got in
1989, were eliminated under the 1996 act. Moreover, judges no longer can
consider such factors as length of residence, family ties or efforts at
rehabilitation when considering whether to deport a person convicted of a crime.

U.S. Sen. Daniel Patrick Moynihan, D-N.Y., has introduced a bill that would
restore judicial review. Meanwhile, federal courts are considering several cases
that challenge the INS' right to detain or deport convicted foreign-born
criminals without a hearing. Last week, the U.S. Supreme Court left the matter
up in the air when it declined to review a number of cases that addressed the
issue.

Probert's long-term future in the United States is unclear. Should he seek to
remain here permanently, his application would be helped by the fact his
children are U.S. citizens but hurt by the drug crime on his record.

"Criminal convictions present a greater obstacle to gaining permanent residency
or citizenship than might otherwise exist," says Bergeron of the INS, "but again
it would be an individual determination."

Still, with help from friends, lawyers and judges, Probert has lasted longer in
this country than anyone might have expected back in 1989.

"He had two good towns for his troubles," says Dance, the law professor who has
followed Probert's case. "Detroit's a good sports town and so is Chicago - they
both love their sports heroes."

- Contributing to this report were Times staff writers Tom Jones and Mary
Jacoby, and researcher Kitty Bennett.

+++Probert's run-ins with the law through the years

Bob Probert, a left wing with the Chicago Blackhawks, has had a long series of
run-ins with the law in the United States and his native Canada:

AUG. 21, 1985:  Arrested in Redford, Mich., and charged with operating under the
influence of liquor, and fleeing and eluding. Pleads guilty to driving while
impaired. License suspended for two months.

APRIL 4, 1986: Arrested in Windsor, Ontario, and charged with drunken driving
and speeding. Refuses to take breath test. Fined $ 2,000 and license suspended a
year.

JULY 2, 1986: Arrested in Windsor and charged with assaulting a police officer.
Placed on two years' probation and ordered to abstain from alcohol.

DEC. 19, 1986: Arrested in Windsor and charged with driving while impaired and
breaching terms of probation. Breath test shows more than twice the legal limit
of alcohol in his blood. Pleads guilty. Fined $ 2,000, license revoked a year.

JAN. 30, 1987: Arrested in Windsor on suspicion of driving under the influence
but refuses to be tested. License suspended a year.

DEC. 4, 1987: Jailed one night in Redford for failing to meet probation
conditions stemming from 1985 impaired driving charge.

MARCH 2, 1989: Arrested at Detroit-Windsor Tunnel and charged with importation
of cocaine. Later sentenced to three months in prison, three months in a halfway
house, $ 2,000 fine and $ 3,680 court costs.

AUG. 9, 1990: Ticketed in Southfield, Mich., for speeding 102 mph in a 55 mph
zone. Judge reduces charges to 85 in a 55.

OCT. 28, 1990: Ticketed for speeding 95 in a 55 zone and not wearing seat belt.
Speeding charge reduced to equipment violation, which carries no points and $ 50
fine. Ticketing officer protests and Probert later allowed to plead guilty to
speeding 60 in 55 - a zero-point offense - and fined $ 100 plus $ 30 costs.

JAN. 2, 1991: Ticketed in Troy, Mich., for speeding 80 in a 55 zone and for
having no valid license. Judge reduces speeding charge to 65 in a 55 and Probert
pleads guilty to having no license in his possession. Fined for both offenses,
but pays neither fine. License suspended.

APRIL 24, 1991: Ticketed in Bloomfield Township, Mich., for speeding 65 in a 35
zone and driving without a license. Speeding charge reduced to 45 in a 35 zone.

JULY 29, 1991: Ticketed in Bloomfield Township for reckless driving on his
motorcycle. Convicted of careless driving, a lesser offense.

DEC. 26, 1992: Ticketed in Southfield for speeding 80 in a 55 zone.

DEC. 27, 1993: Charged with resisting arrest and assault, both misdemeanors, in
Dallas barroom brawl. Later pleads no contest to resisting arrest charge,
adjudication deferred.

JULY 15, 1994: Probert's motorcycle collides with a car in West Bloomfield
Township, Mich. Tests reveal presence of cocaine in his blood and blood-alcohol
level of .31 percent, three times the legal limit. Pleads guilty to lesser
charge of driving while visibly impaired. Sentenced to 90 days in jail (all but
three suspended if he doesn't violate two years' probation), license suspended,
fined $ 1,395 in fines and court costs.

This list was compiled from court records, Illinois and Michigan motor vehicle
records and information in the Chicago Sun-Times. It includes only those tickets
Probert received for speeding 25 mph or more above the posted limit. It does not
include six other tickets he received for speeding within 25 mph above the
limit, or three tickets he received for other minor traffic charges.


LOAD-DATE: March 15, 1999

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: COLOR PHOTO, DIRK SHADD; COLOR PHOTO, Times files; COLOR PHOTO, by
Scott Olsen; Chicago Blackhawks left wing Bob Probert in game action.; Probert
battles Montreal's Dave Morissette during a game.; In recent years, Bob Probert
has been trouble-free, living with his wife and two young daughters in this $
700,000 home in Chicago.

                    Copyright 1999 Times Publishing Company


                              93 of 280 DOCUMENTS

                         St. Petersburg Times (Florida)

                March 22, 1999, Monday, 0 South Pinellas Edition

More equal than others

SECTION: EDITORIAL; EDITORIALS; Pg. 10A

LENGTH: 622 words



Thousands of legal immigrants are deported for past crimes,

but a hockey player and a political insider's son get the breaks.

Congress, with the complicity of President Clinton, decreed in 1996 that any
immigrant residing in this country who has formerly been convicted of a drug
crime or an aggravated felony would be summarily deported. The rigid terms of
the Immigration Reform and Immigrant Responsibility Act have ripped apart
families and destroyed futures. But the misery this xenophobic law has inflicted
has fallen disproportionately on average folk, those who aren't celebrated,
wealthy or politically connected.

In the early 1990s, as companies were downsizing, politicians lined up to
denounce immigrants as the cause of our economic woes. In that climate, few
public officials expressed concern that the new rules governing deportation
would dispense with basic fairness and norms of due process. The 1996 law was
written to flush from this country any non-citizen who had ever made a past
mistake. No matter how far back the criminal action, legal residents nonetheless
could be deported and banned from returning for 20 years.

To expedite the removal process and prevent fairness from creeping into it,
Congress purposely stripped away judicial discretion to take into account
immigrants' personal circumstances, their length of residence or whether they
had been contributing significantly to their communities. Since the law took
effect, more than 121,000 people have been sent back to their home countries as
criminal aliens. Many of them were legal immigrants with ancient convictions and
American-born children and spouses.

Yet, even with the take-no-prisoners approach of the act, some immigrants are
apparently more equal than others.

Professional hockey player Robert Alan Probert, a Canadian, has proved to be
beyond the reach of American immigration law. Despite a 1989 conviction for
importing cocaine (a crime for which hundreds of other immigrants have been sent
packing) and a number of DUI arrests, Probert has been handled with kid gloves,
free to pursue his multimillion-dollar National Hockey League career in this
country.

His situation is similar to that of 32-year-old Robert Anthony Broley, a
Canadian citizen and the son of Orange County Republican Party treasurer Robert
M. Broley. U.S. Rep. Bill McCollum, R-Fla., has introduced a private relief bill
in Congress to allow this former drug abuser to return to this country despite
having spent four years in a Florida prison for theft, burglary, forgery and
trafficking in stolen goods.

McCollum, generally a fan of the "deport 'em first and ask questions later"
approach to immigration, says Broley deserves another chance and denies that his
interest in the felon has to do with his political relationship with Broley's
parents. These despicable attempts to carve out exceptions for the celebrated
and politically connected have added another layer of arbitrariness to the
process. If the 1996 law is too draconian for professional athletes and children
of campaign contributors, then it is also too draconian for many other legal
residents.

Legislation to provide a needed overhaul has been introduced by U.S. Sen. Daniel
Patrick Moynihan, D-N.Y. It would authorize judicial review of deportation
orders, provide for court-appointed counsel in deportation hearings and qualify
legal residents for a cancellation of their deportation if the crime they were
convicted of carries a punishment of fewer than five years in prison.

A little fairness, even-handedness and a second chance are all most legal
immigrants ask of our deportation system. It's the least we should do for those
people we welcomed into our country.


LOAD-DATE: March 23, 1999

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: EDITORIAL

                    Copyright 1999 Times Publishing Company


                              94 of 280 DOCUMENTS

                         St. Petersburg Times (Florida)

                April 18, 1999, Sunday, 0 South Pinellas Edition

EASTERN EUROPEAN IMMIGRANTS // Shadows in the sun

BYLINE: AMY HERDY; CURTIS KRUEGER

SECTION: NATIONAL; Pg. 1A

LENGTH: 2283 words

DATELINE: GULFPORT



To Sophie Leons, the younger Russian immigrant appeared at first to be her
knight in shining armor.

She was 85, he was 39. After they met on the beach in Gulfport, the 6-foot-tall
man with the soft brown eyes soon offered to ease Leons' greatest worry: of
having to someday live in a nursing home.

In exchange for his caring for Leons, who still mostly spoke her native Russian,
she would give Viktor Orzhikhovskiy the one thing he needed most: U.S.
citizenship through marriage.

Though social workers later determined that Leons had a palpable fear of her
companion, she married Orzhikhovskiy in 1997, just weeks after he was charged
with battering her.

Less than two years later, she is in an assisted-living facility, and
Orzhikhovskiy is in the Gulfport condominium she signed over to him. Though he
has been in the United States since 1991 and appears to be legally married to a
U.S. citizen, he is still not considered a legal immigrant. The Immigration and
Naturalization Service lists him as being under investigation.

Stories like Leons' are becoming increasingly well-known to immigration
officials and local police.

Drawn by Florida's climate, plentiful entry-level jobs and lax driver's license
laws that help even a newcomer gain legitimacy with prospective employers, a
wave of Russians and other Eastern Europeans has poured into the state and the
Tampa Bay area in recent years. Many of the newcomers are desperate to live here
permanently.

They have been shadowed by an accompanying wave of criminals - in some cases,
people with connections to organized crime - from the old countries.

In response, federal, state and local law enforcement agencies last year formed
the Statewide Russian/Eurasian Investigator's Group in Florida to pursue cases
that so far have included violent crimes, elderly exploitation, fraud and theft.

In most cases, the victims are other immigrants. Many are duped into paying
thousands of dollars to arrive in the United States and get a job - only to
discover they are not legally allowed to work here.

"There are employment agencies that have a conduit of workers from Eastern
Europe to the U.S.," said Mark Dubina, a Florida Department of Law Enforcement
special agent in Tampa. "They get a cut of that activity, whether paid by the
immigrant or the employers or sometimes both."

The Immigration and Naturalization Service has begun looking at employment
services that have supplied Eastern European workers to hotels and restaurants
in St. Pete Beach. The agency arrested 47 Eastern Europeans in October who were
working at such hotels as the Don CeSar Beach Resort and Spa and the Tradewinds.

During that investigation, INS officials also uncovered a sophisticated local
operation that furnished illegal immigrants with fraudulent Social Security
cards and drivers' licenses.

Yet a fake driver's license isn't really necessary in Florida. Unlike most
states, Florida does not require a driver's license applicant to have any type
of residency, said Jason King of the American Association of Motor Vehicle
Administrators.

Florida also does not require immigrants to show proof that they are here
legally, said Florida Highway Patrol Lt. Earl Dawson of Tampa. Most other states
require proof of residency.

"They come here because they can get through our system easier," Dawson said.
"There's loopholes."

The need for Russian interpreters during the written test for a driver's license
has become so common within the past few years that a driver's license test in
Russian was developed in 1997, said Florida Department of Motor Vehicles
spokesman Tommy Edwards.

Dawson said that with so many fake means of identification out now, illegal
immigrants have no trouble buying the two proofs of identification they need for
their Florida license.

"The procedures need to be tightened up on these foreign nationals," Dawson
said.  "They get a Florida driver's license, go to another state and turn it in.

 What they can't get at home, they now have."

And with it, Dawson said, they can cash paychecks or persuade businesses that
they eligivle for hire.

Steve Cornelius of St. Pete Beach, who has a business that seeks to train
Russian workers in American hotels, said he has heard from dozens of Eastern
Europeans who have paid fees to come here. For most of them, $ 1,000 or $ 2,000
is a small fortune. Many who pay that amount have sold a car, raided their life
savings or put their home in hock.

Many do get work here, though most are doing so in violation of immigration
laws. Why leave home and risk jail or deportation for the prospect of a
minimum-wage job cleaning hotel rooms or washing dishes?

"It's their only chance to get income. There's no income in Russia. There's no
jobs,"  Cornelius said.

A Russian worker who lands in St. Pete Beach and toils 60 hours a week at
minimum wage without getting caught by immigration officials could earn the
equivalent of several years' salary in a single year, Cornelius said. "That's
their dream when they come over."

Many arrive with tourist visas, which means it's illegal for them to work. But
there are illegal ways around that problem.

Last month Grazyna Nowak of St. Pete Beach pleaded guilty to falsifying more
than 100 INS forms. This allowed people with no work authorization to receive
Social Security numbers, which made them look legal. She worked alongside two
Polish citizens who also pleaded guilty: Sebastian Gaszczak and Witold Arabasz.

Foreign men and women contacted Nowak at a St. Pete Beach travel agency,
International Travel & Consulting, where she still works. She provided the phony
documents, charging as much as $ 800 per item. Some of them went to work at
Florida Coastal, a janitorial company that provided maids and dishwashers to
local hotels, according to an informer quoted in court papers.

Libor Kucny, a Czech citizen among the 47 arrested in the October INS raid on
St. Petersburg-area beach hotels, found another way to get papers. Kucny said in
court papers that he worked at the Don CeSar and for Florida Coastal, and that
he bought a Social Security card for $ 400 from another employee at the Don
CeSar.

Kucny said he believed a manager at the hotel "knows that I don't have documents
to work here in the U.S."

George Fetherston, general manager of the Don CeSar, said the hotel fired
Florida Coastal after learning it had supplied illegal workers. He said he had
heard nothing to indicate that any of his staff knew that workers lacked proper
documents.

+++Florida Coastal and other employment services are now under investigation by
the INS and agency spokesman Jeff Wolder would not comment on the case. The
company's principals did not return calls.

Law enforcement officials say other local employment services are supplying
illegal workers and know it.

"What we have here is a lot of Social Security fraud and employment fraud," said
Deborah Dugan, an FDLE agent in Tampa.

Companies that hire illegal immigrants have no way to check their employees'
criminal backgrounds. Sometimes the results are disastrous.

In Hillsborough County in January, a Russian immigrant was on his second night
of training for Jude Janitorial Services when he stole everything from the
jewelry cases of a Kmart at 5400 Busch Blvd.

The estimated loss in stolen jewelry: $ 65,000. Temple Terrace police detective
Ken Stanton said the man was last tracked to Pinellas County before he
disappeared without a trace.

"He never even filled out an (employment) application," Stanton said.

Some Eastern Europeans who land here with nothing more than ambition and a
tourist visa do somehow achieve success. But others are scraping by, with an
uncertain future.

Dariusz Glogowski of Poland worked for a cleaning service that sent him to a
Pinellas beach hotel. Glogowski, 26, said he didn't mind the work cleaning rooms
for minimum wage. It was better money than he could make back home.

But he has another problem.

Glogowski and his girlfriend, Anna Pukalo, 40, said they came to New York last
year on tourist visas, planning merely to visit. But someone sold them Social
Security cards for $ 75 each, and they decided to stay here longer.

After a job in South Carolina, they drifted to St. Petersburg. A local Polish
priest gave them food. Glogowski said he got his job after seeing a flier at a
Polish deli, and Pukalo earned money by sewing and doing odd jobs. They sent $
750 each to a New Jersey attorney who had earlier promised them he could get
them work visas to make them legal.

But the documents turned out to be phony, they said. Glogowski's visa said he
was working on a contract with "Omega Electronics." Pukalo's said she was a
physical therapist at "St. Vincent Hospital." Both Glogowski and Pukalo said
they have never heard of those places, let alone worked for them.

To make things right, they approached the INS, which told them: Leave the
country.

Glogowski shakes his head. In Poland, he said,  "I don't have place to live. I
don't have money. I don't have something like welfare. I have nothing."

He'd rather take his chances here. "I don't go back, because I have nothing in
Poland."

Chances are good that the INS won't pursue him, as long as he stays out of jail.

With a national backlog of thousands of deportation cases, INS officials say
they are relaxing their pursuit of immigrants who work honest jobs.

"The emphasis now is more on aliens involved in criminal activity," said INS
spokesman Wolder in Tampa.

For example, the agency would pursue "someone coming out of prison, as opposed
to someone working in a car wash," Wolder said.  "There are thousands (of
illegal aliens) in the area, and we just can't respond to them."

Among those the INS pursued is Batalb Kordzaia.

Gulfport police said Kordzaia raped a 68-year-old woman with an Eastern European
background over a period of weeks. Police said he then tried to blackmail her by
preying on her reputation.

The woman, whose name is being withheld due to the nature of the crime, said
Kordzaia, 50, at first provided good company, and in exchange for work on her
house and yard, she allowed him to move in.

Then, shortly after moving into her home in the spring of last year, he began to
ask her to marry him so he could stay in the United States.

"He raped me, this son, who I gave my heart," she said through tears. "He
threatened to tell everyone I kissed him, I hugged him" and that they were
having sex unless she paid him $ 1,000 that he wanted to send back to Russia.

He also pressured her to sign over her home to him, but she refused. She finally
reported the attacks, and Kordzaia was charged with sexual battery. The charge
was dismissed by prosecutors because of a lack of evidence or witnesses, because
so much time had passed before she reported the crimes and because she had
allowed him to live in her home.

Kordzaia was ordered to leave the country and INS records show he voluntarily
boarded a plane in November.

- Times researchers Cathy Wos and John Martin contributed to this report, as did
Times staff writer Sara Lomasz.

- Times Staff Writer Amy Herdy can be reached at (813) 226-3474 and Curtis
Krueger can be reached at krueger@sptimes.com or by calling (727) 893-8232.


LOAD-DATE: April 21, 1999

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: COLOR PHOTO, LISA DEJONG; BLACK AND WHITE PHOTO, CHERIE DIEZ; Anna
Pukalo and her boyfriend, Dariusz Glogowski, each paid $ 750 for work visas that
turned out ot be fake.; Immigrant Viktor Orzhikhovskiy, 39, lives in a
condominium that his U.S. citizen wife, Sophia Leons, 85, signed over to him.

                    Copyright 1999 Times Publishing Company


                              95 of 280 DOCUMENTS

                         St. Petersburg Times (Florida)

               May 05, 1999, Wednesday, 0 South Pinellas Edition

SECTION: NATIONAL; OBITUARIES; Pg. 7A

LENGTH: 508 words



CHARLES GORDON, 93, a son of immigrants who became the general counsel of the
Immigration and Naturalization Service, died April 28 in Panama City. He was a
seminal figure in modern immigration law. The 20-volume treatise Immigration Law
and Procedure, which he published starting in 1959, is the principal reference
in the field, widely cited in court opinions and scholarly articles. He
continued to publish supplements and updates to it until he was 88.



CLAUDETTE HENRY, 52, who was Oklahoma's state treasurer when a
multimillion-dollar scandal rocked her office in the early 1990s, died Sunday in
Oklahoma City of scleroderma. The scandal involved $ 6.7-million in overcharges
and kickbacks on the trading of nearly $ 1.7-billion in securities. No charges
were filed against Ms. Henry, who was defeated in the 1994 GOP primary in a bid
for re-election. Patricia Whitehead, the treasurer's chief trader, and William
Pretty, a Norman businessman, were convicted on federal charges of conspiracy,
bribery and money laundering and are serving time in federal prisons.



MARK WEISER, 46, the Xerox Corp. technologist known as "the father of ubiquitous
computing," died April 27 in Palo Alto, Calif., from complications of cancer.
With his staunch belief that computer technology could be folded into all
aspects of daily life, Mr. Weiser was celebrated in the high-tech world as a
visionary and computer science pioneer. He often spoke of the day when a
person's refrigerator might remind a shopper that he needed milk or when office
workers would be surrounded by "smart" printers and copy machines.

NEAL HARDY, 84, who headed the Federal Housing Administration in the Kennedy
administration, died April 15 in Osteen. Mr. Hardy was an executive of the
National Association of Home Builders when President John F. Kennedy nominated
him to head the FHA in 1961. The agency was a predecessor of the Department of
Housing and Urban Development.



JAMES WHITTAM, 49, president and chief executive of Shaklee Companies, died
April 15 in Palo Alto, Calif., of cancer. A scientist and businessman, Mr.
Whittam was named president and CEO in 1989 when the Japanese firm Yamanouchi
acquired Shaklee.



CHARLES DAWSON, 88, a longtime chemistry professor at Columbia University who
played the leading role in the discovery of the toxic compounds in poison ivy,
died April 28 in Wolfeboro, N.H.



CHARLES H. PILLARD, 80, president of the International Brotherhood of Electrical
Workers during the years of its greatest membership, died April 26 in
Washington, D.C., of a heart attack. During his tenure as IBEW president from
1968 to 1986, the union, which now has a membership of 750,000, reached a peak
of 1-million workers.



KONRAD HENKEL, 83, a German industrialist who for five decades oversaw the
expansion of his grandfather's soap business into a worldwide chemical concern,
the Henkel Group, died April 24 in Duesseldorf.

- Area obituaries and the Suncoast Deaths list appear in local sections.


LOAD-DATE: May 6, 1999

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: BLACK AND WHITE PHOTO; Neal Hardy

TYPE: OBITUARY

                    Copyright 1999 Times Publishing Company


                              96 of 280 DOCUMENTS

                         St. Petersburg Times (Florida)

                 May 14, 1999, Friday, 0 South Pinellas Edition

Humane treatment for immigrants

SECTION: EDITORIAL; EDITORIALS; Pg. 18A

LENGTH: 364 words



Immigrants living all over the United States have suffered severe hardship in
the three years since Congress "reformed" the nation's welfare and immigration
laws. The harsh immigration rules have separated families, resulted in lengthy
detentions and encouraged abuses by immigration officials. Meanwhile, changes to
the welfare law stripped some immigrants of the food stamps, health care and
other benefits vital to their survival. Congress has since corrected some, but
not all, of the cruelest provisions. Two bills now pending in Congress would
help finish the job.

The first, sponsored by U.S. Reps. Barney Frank, D-Mass., Martin Frost, D-Texas,
and Lincoln Diaz-Balart, R-Fla., is a corrective measure that would stop the
arbitrary deportation of legal permanent residents who committed minor criminal
offenses while living in the United States.

The 1996 Immigration Reform and Immigrant Responsibility Act greatly expanded
the list of crimes for which non-citizens can be deported. The law was written
to apply retroactively and made no distinction between immigrants who committed
serious crimes such as rape or murder and those convicted of petty offenses. As
a result, immigrants who have lived for years as law-abiding members of society
have been summarily expelled, in some cases for minor crimes committed decades
ago.

 Frank's measure would restore the due process rights that were taken away from
immigrants facing deportation under the 1996 law. Equally important, it would
restore judicial discretion in immigration cases, giving judges the power to
weigh mitigating factors when hearing deportation cases.

A Senate bill sponsored by Democrat Daniel Patrick Moynihan of New York would
close the remaining gaps in medical and food stamp benefits that opened with the
overhaul of the welfare system.

Moynihan's measure would fully restore Supplemental Security Income benefits and
food stamps to most immigrants who entered the country after the welfare law was
enacted, and it would give states the option of providing health coverage to
immigrant children and prenatal care to women.

Passage of both bills should be a priority for this Congress.


LOAD-DATE: May 14, 1999

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: EDITORIAL

                    Copyright 1999 Times Publishing Company


                              97 of 280 DOCUMENTS

                         St. Petersburg Times (Florida)

               July 15, 1999, Thursday, O South Pinellas Edition

Proposed bill would not deport non-terrorists

SECTION: EDITORIAL; LETTERS; Pg. 19A

LENGTH: 1897 words



Your recent editorial in the July 7 edition of the St. Petersburg Times made
several mistaken claims about legislation I have introduced: H.R. 2184, the
Keeping America Safe Act of 1999.

My proposed bill would help our nation combat the growing threat of global and
domestic terrorism. This new law would allow the government to deport aliens who
are here as guests of our country if they are proven to be members or
representatives of organizations which have conducted violent, premeditated
terrorist acts of destruction directed against innocent civilians. Under this
proposal, legal aliens could also be deported if they are proven to have aided
or abetted terrorist organizations in carrying out these violent acts.

Our nation's legal definition of a terrorist organization is clearly linked to
the perpetration of violence. Under federal law, terrorism is defined as
"premeditated, politically motivated violence perpetrated against non-combatant
targets by sub-national or clandestine agents" (Title 22, U.S. Code, Section
265f(d)). Congress has defined a "terrorist organization" as "one whose
leadership or whose members, with the knowledge, approval, or acquiescence of
the leadership, have taken part" in terrorism (Conference Report on the
Immigration Act of 1990).

Therefore, H.R. 2184 would allow the Immigration and Naturalization Service,
with due process, to deport members or representatives of organizations who
commit violent acts - or those who aid or abet such organizations, and are
proven to have had knowledge of their activities.

Your editorial is mistaken in asserting that this proposal would deport people
because of their political views. H.R. 2184 would not allow the government to
deport aliens who "align themselves with the political or humanitarian goals of
unfavored groups." That would indeed be overarching and unconstitutional, and I
would never endorse such an idea. Unlike McCarthy-era legislation from the
1950s, which allowed for the deportation of those who simply espoused certain
unpopular beliefs, my bill only allows for the deportation of those who actually
aid organizations that are proven to have perpetrated violent acts of terrorism.
If passed, H.R. 2184 would protect all law-abiding residents - both citizens and
aliens - of the United States.

U.S. Rep. Robert E. Andrews, D-N.J., Washington, D.C.

More drug resistance research needed

As a premedical student who works in an infection control area within a
hospital, I have to say Prescription to fight drug resistance (July 10) is right
on target. I strongly agree that more research and funding is sorely needed in
all areas.

In my position within the past 10 months I have been tracking infection data at
a local hospital. It is obvious even to me, a person early in their education,
that bacteria are becoming resistant to antibiotics. Antibiotic resistance is
highly prevalent in our hospital setting. I've seen antibiotic resistance so
often that now it is remarkable when the organism is sensitive. I think the
situation can only grow worse. I applaud the writer when he tells us that we
need better hospital policies, enhanced educational programs and further
research to prevent the development of "super bugs." We need this - and probably
more. The suggestion to share case information nationwide within the medical
field will advance knowledge and provide better outcomes among patients with
bacterial resistance. It is also my understanding that the use of antibiotics in
animal feed is a potential problem which should be a considered risk factor as
it too encourages resistance. The St. Petersburg Times is to be commended for
bringing to light the astonishing development of bacterial resistance which has
evolved over such a short period of time.

Bernadette Marrero, Tampa

Lieutenant governor's appreciation

Our family would like to take this opportunity to thank everyone for their
kindness and generosity during my wife Mary's illness. Words are inadequate to
describe how much this has meant to the family and to me.

People from around the state and country sent flowers, provided food, sent cards
and letters and donated money to the scholarship fund in Mary's name. The
outpouring of love and affection that our family has received during this
difficult time has been phenomenal.

In closing, I would like to quote from one of the poems used at Mary's service.
"Be not burdened with times of sorrow - I wish you all the sunshine of
tomorrow." Each of us is enriched by Mary's memory and we should be motivated to
make the most of each opportunity. Thank you again for the thoughtfulness
extended to the Brogan, Leisring and Stacey families.

Lt. Gov. Frank T. Brogan, Tallahassee

Maxwell has much to teach us

Re: A foolish suspicion of learning, July 7.

Bill Maxwell is a masterful writer and teacher. I do not always agree with his
columns, but I always learn from them. I reflect often on the knowledge I gain
from his writing. I think of the plight of the migrant farmers, the strength and
dignity of his father, the love of solitude with good literature and the
vanishing cypress.

On July 4, I read the article, Concerned educators study racial gap in
achievement. I couldn't let go of it. That evening, as I shared a Fourth of July
cookout with friends, we discussed the content of the article. The next day in
school with teachers and my grown children, I looked for their interpretations.

And then Bill Maxwell's brave, informative article appeared in the July 7 paper.
So many questions were answered and, as always, new ones emerged. As a long-time
educator in Pinellas County, I finally understand why it is often difficult for
young black students to pride themselves on their academic achievements once
they leave the elementary level. Too many times I have seen bright black
students deny their abilities in order to fit in with their peers. Thankfully,
there are always those brave few who risk rejection to excel scholastically.
There must be some way educators can help increase the ratio.

Again, I am reminded how fortunate we are to have Bill Maxwell, writer and
teacher.

Patricia D. Archibald, St. Petersburg

Bowen deserves her sentence

Re: Letters about Bernice Bowen's sentencing, July 9.

I cannot believe that so many of your readers think that Bernice Bowen was a
victim and does not deserve 21 years in jail. She should receive this sentence
for letting a man like Hank Earl Carr into her home to kill her little boy.

I teach in a special school for dropout prevention and see daily how many young
lives are destroyed when a mother or father puts their own needs, wants and
interests in front of their children's. I can only imagine the last moments of
that little boy's life: He probably did not clean up his room or he spilled
something or whatever to kindle the short fuse of Carr. The gun may have gone
off by accident, as they recount, but how many times was that gun held to that
child to make him "obey"?

Bernice Bowen lied and gave the wrong name to authorities. She knew he had a
handcuff key around his neck. She knew he hated all law enforcement and would do
anything not to return to jail. And, as we know, the killing of that little boy
was only the beginning. The public begs that police use more empathy, and when
they try to exercise some feelings for what they saw as "a grieving father,"
then they lose their lives for their kindness. And, on goes another Hank Earl
Carl to kill again and then finally kill himself after holding another victim
captive.

I do not know Bernice Bowen, nor do I know how she was raised or lived her life
before that awful day. But she allowed a "dangerous stranger" to permeate the
lives of her children and change forever the lives of so many grieving victims.
And she added to the child-abuse statistics of too many, too young.

Rebecca D. Macneale, St. Petersburg

Newspapers can help in cancer fight

Re: Well, here I go again on breast cancer, by Mary Jo Melone.

The subject matter of this article has been very much in my mind lately, and I
am happy to see that you are addressing a surprising new truth about our medical
profession.

The fact is that in their great zeal to try to cure people of this dreaded
disease, a tremendous amount of suffering is occurring.

I, too, am fortunate that I have never had cancer yet. However, I have seen
loved ones suffer endlessly and families destroyed by the horrible effects of
the treatments that often are vain attempts to kill the cancers.

I have also seen people who have spurned the medical profession and refused to
be mutilated. I strongly suspect that the length of life is probably the same in
either case. The quality of life is certainly not enhanced by radiation and
chemotherapy, to say nothing of spending so much of one's energy and other
resources in hospitals.

I also believe that the answer to this horrible disease will be in the
prevention rather than the cure. Please keep on asking doctors and scientists
the answers and help us to make rational decisions about our health care.

I have chosen to give up synthetic estrogen for natural products. I'm eager to
learn more about taking the best care of my body that I can.

We desperately need more unbiased information that our newspapers can secure for
us.

Thanks, Mary Jo. I look forward to more articles from you.

Laurie Graff Figg, Homosassa

A survivor's outlook

Re: Column about breast cancer was biased, letter, July 6.

I was so elated to read the letter writer's answer to Mary Jo Melone's
depressing column about breast cancer.

The physician who wrote the letter stood shoulder to shoulder with my sister,
Henrietta Haggman, while she fought a seven-year battle with cancer. He
encouraged her, eased her pain, laughed with her, and cried with her when they
both knew the battle was lost.

I myself am a breast cancer survivor of 16 years. During that time, I've seen my
children marry and welcomed four beautiful grandchildren into the world. I
wouldn't have missed a minute of it.

Two-thirds of the battle in cancer survival is attitude and finding a doctor
whom you trust wholeheartedly.

This world, with all of its warts, is a pretty wonderful place to be, and human
beings should leave it reluctantly, carrying battle scars attesting to their
fight to stay alive.

Jessie Zebley, Clearwater

Crack down on slow drivers, too

Re: Aggressive drivers.

I wholeheartedly applaud the crackdown on this type of driving. It's being done
by people who do not care about others or the consequences of what could occur.

On the other hand, I would also like to see a crackdown on the extra-slow driver
who impedes traffic for one reason or another on a higher-speed road. These
people are usually not involved in accidents, but cause many.

Drivers who do care often become impatient and aggressive, trying to pass at the
wrong time.

Impeding traffic is an offense and should be treated as such.

Joseph Abramowitz, Dunnellon

Share your opinions

We invite readers to write to us. Letters for publication should be addressed to
Letters to the Editor, P.O. Box 1121, St. Petersburg, FL 33731.

They can be sent by e-mail to letters@sptimes.com or by fax to 893-8675.

They should be brief and must include the writer's name, address and phone
number. Please include a handwritten signature when possible.


LOAD-DATE: July 15, 1999

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: BLACK AND WHITE CARTOON, DON ADDIS; A TV Programming Dept. farmer has a
Ratings guide in his back pocket and a pail of Garbage in one hand. A pail of
Sleaze is on his other side. He speaks into a cell phone saying "Gotta go. Time
to slop the audience."

TYPE: LETTER

                    Copyright 1999 Times Publishing Company


                              98 of 280 DOCUMENTS

                         St. Petersburg Times (Florida)

                July 25, 1999, Sunday, 0 South Pinellas Edition

Former local man fights Ghana woman's case

BYLINE: MARY EVERTZ

SECTION: FLORIDIAN; PEOPLE; Pg. 8F

LENGTH: 658 words



Her plight has attracted support from feminists, advocates for refugees and
members of Congress.

For more than two years,  Adelaide Abankwah, a 29-year-old native of Ghana, has
been awaiting asylum in the United States.

Now, thanks to these groups and the pro bono work of a young lawyer formerly of
St. Petersburg, there is an excellent chance that Abankwah will be able to stay
in the United States.

Until Monday, Abankwah had been held in a detention center in Queens since March
1997. This was shortly after she arrived at Kennedy International Airport with a
false passport.

Reporter  Ginger Thompson wrote this account in the New York Times: "Sobbing and
speaking in broken English, she told United States officials that she had fled
her homeland because the elders of her village were going to cut her genitals.
She had lost her virginity to a man who was not an approved mate for her, in
violation of the tribe's customs."

After dozens of hearings, an immigration judge and the Board of Immigration
Appeals denied Abankwah's petitions. They found that while her fear of returning
home was genuine, she had not proved she would be subjected to the procedure
once there.

While she was free to return to Ghana, Abankwah opted to stay in the Wackenhut
Detention Center in order to fight for the right to stay in the United States.
At the time of her release she was the center's longest serving prisoner.

Jonathan Rauchway, 26, who grew up in St. Petersburg and is now with the
prestigious firm of Orrick, Herrington & Sutcliffe in New York City, represents
Abankwah and argued her case before the 2nd U.S. Circuit Court of Appeals on May
3. Among the interested spectators in the courtroom were his mother, St.
Petersburg lawyer  Audrey Rauchway, and  Gloria Steinem, founder of Ms. magazine
and the leading feminist of her generation.

Other supporters include  U.S. Sen. Charles E. Schumer of New York,  U.S. Rep.
Carolyn B.  Maloney of Manhattan and actor  Julia Roberts.

On July 12, the appeals court issued its decision supporting the asylum
petition. According to the New York Times, this is the first time a federal
court has recognized fear of genital mutilation, which is performed on millions
of women in about 26 African countries, as a legitimate reason for asylum.

Upon receiving the decision, Jonathan Rauchway petitioned the Immigration and
Naturalization Service to release Abankwah on humanitarian grounds.

Abankwah is now staying with friends in Manhattan while she awaits a final
decision by immigration officials on the court's ruling.

Jonathan's father is  Dr. Michael Rauchway, chief of radiology at St. Anthony's
Hospital in St. Petersburg.

Merchants to the stars

When actors  Courteney Cox and  David Arquette were honeymooning in the Tampa
Bay area recently, in addition to buying art from Fusion Gallery in downtown St.
Petersburg, they continued their shopping on Central Avenue at Mad Dog Fun
Furnishings. "We specialize in Art Deco and antique furniture," says  Jeri
Gooding, who owns and operates the store with her husband,  Jerry.

"My husband was unaware of their celebrity until the sale was completed. Even
her name on the credit card gave him no clue, since his favorite TV is the
Discovery Channel," she said. It was when a neighbor came in and asked for their
autographs that Jerry realized his customers were a Friends stars and a member
of the acting Arquette family, which includes  Patricia and  Rosanna Arquette.

The newlyweds bought a 10-foot Herman Miller "airport sofa," a curved '50s sofa,
a desk, an 8-foot wire sculpture and many other small items. "She bargained just
like a lot of customers do," the couple report. After the prices were settled,
Arquette asked that the items be shipped to Los Angeles.

The couple saw a recent issue of Bazaar with a layout of Cox's home and are now
envisioning how the new pieces will fit into the 1950s decor.


LOAD-DATE: July 26, 1999

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: COLOR PHOTO, Associated Press, (3); Adelaide Abankwah appears on a
poster at a New York demonstration May 3; Jonathan Rauchway; On their honeymoon
a month ago, Courteney Cox and David Arquette spend time at Universal's Islands
of Adventure.

TYPE: COLUMN

                    Copyright 1999 Times Publishing Company


                              99 of 280 DOCUMENTS

                         St. Petersburg Times (Florida)

                 July 3, 1996, Wednesday, 2 Late Tampa Edition

Boxers await ruling

SOURCE: Compiled from Wire Reports

SECTION: SPORTS; OLYMPICS; FANFARE; Pg. 2C

LENGTH: 214 words

DATELINE: SAN DIEGO



From an immigration processing center in the middle of the desert, two  members
of Cuba's Olympic boxing team waited Tuesday to hear if they would be  accepted
into the United States or returned to their communist homeland.

"These guys have been fighting since they've been 9 years old," said Al  Rogers,
a spokesman for the law firm representing the men. "They're holding  up okay."

Ramon Garbey and Joel Casamayor slipped away last week during free time  while
the 12-member Cuban team was training in Guadalajara, Mexico. They  expect to
hear soon about the first phase of their application for U.S.  political asylum,
immigration officials said.

A decision was expected today or after the Independence Day holiday, said
immigration attorney Frank Ronzio.

During Monday's interview with immigration officials, the two were asked to
reconstruct their treatment in Cuba and at the Olympic training camp in
Guadalajara, said Rogers, who attended the proceeding.

Rogers said the men reported being punished for years for refusing to sign  a
document that pledged their loyalty to President Fidel Castro's communist
regime.

Garbey, 25, had served a three-month jail sentence in Cuba several years  ago
for refusing to join a neighborhood patrol.

LOAD-DATE: July 4, 1996

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: DIGEST

                    Copyright 1996 Times Publishing Company


                              100 of 280 DOCUMENTS

                         St. Petersburg Times (Florida)

                  July 4, 1996, Thursday, 2 Late Tampa Edition

Ex-Islamic group member leaves U.S.

BYLINE: JAMES HARPER

SECTION: TAMPA & STATE; Pg. 4B

LENGTH: 575 words

DATELINE: TAMPA



A participant in a controversial Islamic studies group once connected to the
University of South Florida was told to leave the country this week.

Basheer Nafi had been charged with immigration fraud, but the charge was
dropped, a senior spokesman for the U.S. Immigration and Naturalization  Service
said Wednesday.

Nafi did not contest a lesser, non-criminal violation of his visa status,  and
he was allowed to leave the country under threat of deportation, INS  spokesman
Russ Bergeron said.

Nafi and his family had planned to leave the country anyway, said his wife,
Imelda Ryan, who remains in this country. The couple had sold their furniture
and purchased airplane tickets to Britain. They are British subjects, she  said.

Since Nafi had previously notified immigration officials of his intentions,
Ryan believes her husband's arrest last week outside his office in suburban
Washington, D.C., was simple harassment. "We feel they're bringing false
accusations in order to discredit WISE," she said.

WISE is an acronym for the World and Islam Studies Group, a private think  tank
in Tampa that co-sponsored scholarly forums and other activities with USF  until
last year.

A former WISE administrator and part-time USF professor, Ramadan Abdullah
Shallah, later emerged in Syria as the new leader of a Palestinian terror
group, Islamic Jihad.

Soon after that, FBI and federal immigration agents announced that they  were
investigating the group and one of its founders, USF engineering  professor Sami
Al-Arian.

Ryan and other Muslim supporters complain that federal agents and others  have
been smearing WISE and its other officials, including Nafi, without any  formal
charges being filed.

Some critics of the INS, including Georgetown University law professor  David
Cole, say the INS selectively enforces minor immigration rules in order  to
deport people whose politics are deemed unsavory in the United States.

Cole said he was not familiar with Nafi's case, but in general, "with
Palestinians, the federal government has shown a failure to differentiate
between support for terrorism, which should be punished, and support for
political organizations that the administration does not like, which is
constitutionally protected activity under the First Amendment."

A federal affidavit filed in Tampa last year cited a Jordanian newspaper
article and a confidential source in identifying Nafi as a leader in Islamic
Jihad, an accusation he denies.

Bergeron denied that there was anything selective about Nafi's arrest or
deportation proceedings.

"It is not unusual for the INS to arrest and move to deport individuals  who
violate the terms of a whole variety of non-immigrant visa restrictions,"  he
said.

The charge that Nafi did not contest stemmed from his changing jobs from  WISE
to another private think tank, the International Institute of Islamic  Thought,
near Washington.

Nafi obtained a renewal of his visa in February to reflect his new  employer.
But in the meantime, he was technically out of compliance with his  old visa,
which required him to work for WISE, Bergeron said.

After being held in jail, unable to communicate even with his wife, Nafi
decided not to contest the charge so that he could leave the country this week
as planned, his wife said.

Bergeron said Nafi would have been forcibly deported had he not left on his
own.

LOAD-DATE: July 4, 1996

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DISTRIBUTION: TAMPA & STATE; CITY & STATE; METRO & STATE

                    Copyright 1996 Times Publishing Company


                              101 of 280 DOCUMENTS

                         St. Petersburg Times (Florida)

                July 16, 1996, Tuesday, 0 South Pinellas Edition

Islamic ex-student faces deportation

SECTION: CITY & STATE; Pg. 5B

LENGTH: 332 words

DATELINE: TAMPA



Immigration officials want to deport the brother-in-law of a central figure  in
the controversial Islamic think tank once linked with the University of  South
Florida.

Mazen Al-Najjar, a former USF student who also taught at the university,  will
appear Thursday morning before a judge in Orlando, his lawyer said  Monday.

Immigration officials first pursued Al-Najjar more than a decade ago,  saying he
lacked legal status to be in this country, said attorney Luis D.  Coton. Coton
said he thinks officials are pursuing his client with greater  vigor due to
publicity over the World and Islam Studies Group (WISE), a  private think tank
in Tampa that once co-sponsored events with USF.

"I'm quite confident that if the situation with WISE hadn't arisen, he  would
have already made legal status in this country," Coton said.

Controversy over WISE arose last year when the group's former administrator  and
a part-time USF professor, Ramadan Abdullah Shallah, emerged in Syria as  the
new leader of a Palestinian terrorist group, Islamic Jihad. Soon after,  federal
officials said they were investigating the group and one of its  founders, USF
engineering professor Sami Al-Arian.

Al-Arian is the brother-in-law of Al-Najjar, who also has worked for WISE,  at
one point serving as the volunteer executive director of the group, Coton  said.

Immigration authorities in Miami confirmed that the hearing will take  place,
but they declined to comment on Al-Najjar's case.

Al-Najjar, 39, was born in Gaza and came to the United States in 1982 to  attend
school, Coton said. In 1985, immigration officials began deportation
proceedings.

Earlier this month, immigration fraud charges against another WISE  participant,
Basheer Nafi, were dropped when the man agreed to leave the  United States. Nafi
did not contest a non-criminal violation of his visa  status, and was allowed to
leave the country under threat of deportation, an  INS spokesman said.

LOAD-DATE: July 17, 1996

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DISTRIBUTION: CITY & STATE; METRO & STATE; TAMPA & STATE

                    Copyright 1996 Times Publishing Company


                              102 of 280 DOCUMENTS

                         St. Petersburg Times (Florida)

               July 18, 1996, Thursday, 0 South Pinellas Edition

A terror of a law

SECTION: EDITORIAL; EDITORIALS; Pg. 14A

LENGTH: 498 words



Congress passed the reactionary Anti-Terrorism and Effective Death Penalty  Act
in a fit of election-year folly. Now it's time to fix it. Signed into law  by
President Clinton on the one-year anniversary of the Oklahoma City bombing,  the
act in three short months has broken up families, clogged detention  centers and
pushed Immigration and Naturalization officials to their wits'  end.

Trying to appear tough on crime and terrorism, lawmakers designed a bill to
limit the number of appeals for death row prisoners and make it easier to
prosecute people charged with committing or planning terrorist attacks. But
immigration officials say the law requires them to detain and deport any
non-citizen who has previously been convicted of a crime - no matter how small
the infraction, how long ago it happened or if the immigrant served jail time.
Immigration lawyers estimate hundreds of long-term legal residents have been
arrested so far. Many are caught when they go to renew their green cards.

Among the detainees are lawful permanent residents, a class of people who  have
lived in the country at least seven years, have married American citizens  or
have children who are citizens, but don't have citizenship themselves.  Among
the deportable crimes are turnstile jumping and defacing a passport.

What's worse, the law eliminates waivers of deportation, the old forms that
would have allowed detainees to plead their case by showing length of
residence, evidence of rehabilitation and hardship caused by deportation.
Immigration officials say the law keeps them from issuing any more waivers and
releasing detainees on bond.

When he signed the bill, Clinton warned that it made "major, ill-advised
changes in our immigration laws having nothing to do with fighting terrorism"
and that it eliminated "most remedial relief for long-term legal residents."  He
was right. Too bad he signed it anyway. He could have gained leverage with
Congress had he delayed enforcement of the law until new legislation corrected
those flaws.

Under fire from immigrants' rights groups, legislators are drafting a bill  to
clean up the mess they made. They now want to restore immigration  officials'
discretion to make exceptions for non-violent offenders,  rehabilitated people
and longtime residents. But wait - isn't that exactly  what the first law said?
Congress' mea culpas for trying to fix provisions  that weren't broken are too
little too late.

The law and Congress' bumbling efforts at damage control smack of people  who
got caught trying to elevate themselves politically on the backs of the
powerless. Non-citizens already cannot vote, and this law strips them of the
protections of due process. Clinton should declare a moratorium on enforcement
of the terrorism law until Congress can fix it with new legislation. And
Congress should not go home until it does right by long-term residents facing
deportation.

LOAD-DATE: July 18, 1996

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: EDITORIAL

                    Copyright 1996 Times Publishing Company


                              103 of 280 DOCUMENTS

                         St. Petersburg Times (Florida)

                July 19, 1996, Friday, 1 North Pinellas Edition

Possible terrorist ties re-emerge at hearing

BYLINE: MONICA DAVEY

SECTION: METRO & STATE; Pg. 1B

LENGTH: 623 words

DATELINE: ORLANDO



Mazen Al-Najjar, a quiet man in a plain gray suit, sat before a judge to
explain how he had overstayed his U.S. student visa by more than a decade.

It could have been just another day in immigration court.

Instead, Al-Najjar's deportation hearing Thursday revived the controversy  that
has swirled around the University of South Florida for more than a year,  since
federal agents began investigating whether an organization that once
collaborated with the university was actually a front for Palestinian
terrorists.

An Immigration and Naturalization Service agent described Al-Najjar as a
"midlevel operative" for two Tampa organizations whose real purpose was to
supply funds to groups such as the Islamic Jihad.

"That was the primary purpose for the (organizations') existence," INS  Special
Agent Bill West testified.

Al-Najjar, a co-creator and executive director of the World and Islam  Studies
Enterprise (WISE), personally signed checks made out to at least two  people who
turned out to be terrorists, West alleged.

Al-Najjar's lawyer, meanwhile, painted an entirely different picture of his
client. Al-Najjar, a 39-year-old doctorate student in industrial engineering,
was dedicated to WISE for its academic studies and intellectual conferences
about policies and politics in the Middle East, attorney Luis Coton said.

Al-Najjar, who was born in the Gaza Strip and came to the United States in  the
1980s to attend college, is also a family man with three young children,  as
well as a community booster who helped found a Mosque and school in his  Tampa
neighborhood, Coton claimed.

 "I will lose my humanity," Al-Najjar said when asked what will happen  to him
if he is deported. Al-Najjar said he is stateless. "I will be  wandering around
airports in the world."

 Al-Najjar's 31-year-old wife, Fedaa, also is under consideration for
deportation. The couple and their three American-born daughters - Yara, 7,
Sara, 5, and Safa, 1 - want U.S. Immigration Judge J. Daniel Dowell to grant
them permanent resident status in this country. Dowell will not make a  decision
until he hears three more days of testimony later this summer.

Coton acknowledged that Al-Najjar's student visa status in this country ran  out
more than a decade ago, but complained that federal officials have  demonstrated
"selective" prosecution in pursuing Al-Najjar. If not for  publicity about WISE
and its former alliance to USF, he said, Al-Najjar  probably would have been
granted permanent status in this country.

   But government allegations about Al-Najjar's links to other characters in
the WISE controversy raised doubts about that claim. Among the government
allegations made public Thursday:

Al-Najjar once signed a check from the account of a group related to WISE,
known as ICP, made out to Ramadan Abdullah Shallah, a former WISE  administrator
and part-time USF professor, agent West testified. Shallah  emerged last year in
Syria as the new leader of the Islamic Jihad.

Al-Najjar admits he was given or loaned thousands of dollars by his
brother-in-law, USF engineering professor Sami Al-Arian. Federal agents have
said they are investigating Al-Arian and WISE for possible criminal  violations.
So far, there are no charges. On Thursday, West revealed that  agents also are
investigating Al-Najjar as part of the probe.

Al-Najjar signed checks on ICP's bank account made out to Basheer Nafi, a
former WISE participant who left the country earlier this month after a
deportation order was finalized against him, West said. In 1995, Nafi was
identified in an Arabic newspaper as "leading member" of the Islamic Jihad
movement, West said.

LOAD-DATE: July 19, 1996

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DISTRIBUTION: METRO & STATE; TAMPA & STATE

                    Copyright 1996 Times Publishing Company


                              104 of 280 DOCUMENTS

                         St. Petersburg Times (Florida)

               July 20, 1996, Saturday, 0 South Pinellas Edition

Terrorist ties alleged at hearing

BYLINE: MONICA DAVEY

SECTION: CITY & STATE; Pg. 6B

LENGTH: 623 words

DATELINE: ORLANDO



Mazen Al-Najjar, a quiet man in a plain gray suit, sat before a judge to
explain how he had overstayed his U.S. student visa by more than a decade.

It could have been just another day in immigration court.

Instead, Al-Najjar's deportation hearing Thursday revived the controversy  that
has swirled around the University of South Florida for more than a year,  since
federal agents began investigating whether an organization that once
collaborated with the university was actually a front for Palestinian
terrorists.

An Immigration and Naturalization Service agent described Al-Najjar as a
"midlevel operative" for two Tampa organizations whose real purpose was to
supply funds to groups such as the Islamic Jihad.

"That was the primary purpose for the (organizations') existence," INS  Special
Agent Bill West testified.

Al-Najjar, a co-creator and executive director of the World and Islam  Studies
Enterprise (WISE), personally signed checks made out to at least two  people who
turned out to be terrorists, West alleged.

Al-Najjar's lawyer, meanwhile, painted an entirely different picture of his
client. Al-Najjar, a 39-year-old doctoral student in industrial engineering,
was dedicated to WISE for its academic studies and intellectual conferences
about policies and politics in the Middle East, attorney Luis Coton said.

Al-Najjar, who was born in the Gaza Strip and came to the United States in  the
1980s to attend college, is also a family man with three young children,  as
well as a community booster who helped found a mosque and school in his  Tampa
neighborhood, Coton claimed.

  "I will lose my humanity," Al-Najjar said when asked what will happen  to him
if he is deported. Al-Najjar said he is stateless. "I will be  wandering around
airports in the world."

 Al-Najjar's 31-year-old wife, Fedaa, also is under consideration for
deportation. The couple and their three American-born daughters - Yara, 7,
Sara, 5, and Safa, 1 - want U.S. Immigration Judge J. Daniel Dowell to grant
them permanent resident status in this country. Dowell will not make a  decision
until he hears three more days of testimony later this summer.

Coton acknowledged that Al-Najjar's student visa status in this country ran  out
more than a decade ago, but complained that federal officials have  demonstrated
"selective" prosecution in pursuing Al-Najjar. If not for  publicity about WISE
and its former alliance to USF, he said, Al-Najjar  probably would have been
granted permanent status in this country.

But government allegations about Al-Najjar's links to other characters in  the
WISE controversy raised doubts about that claim. Among the government
allegations made public Thursday:

Al-Najjar once signed a check from the account of a group related to WISE,
known as ICP, made out to Ramadan Abdullah Shallah, a former WISE  administrator
and part-time USF professor, agent West testified. Shallah  emerged last year in
Syria as the new leader of the Islamic Jihad.

Al-Najjar admits he was given or loaned thousands of dollars by his
brother-in-law, USF engineering professor Sami Al-Arian. Federal agents have
said they are investigating Al-Arian and WISE for possible criminal  violations.
So far, there are no charges. On Thursday, West revealed that  agents also are
investigating Al-Najjar as part of the probe.

Al-Najjar signed checks on ICP's bank account made out to Basheer Nafi, a
former WISE participant who left the country earlier this month after a
deportation order was finalized against him, West said. In 1995, Nafi was
publicly identified in an Arabic newspaper as "leading member" of the  Islamic
Jihad movement, West said.

LOAD-DATE: July 22, 1996

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                    Copyright 1996 Times Publishing Company


                              105 of 280 DOCUMENTS

                         St. Petersburg Times (Florida)

                March 23, 1997, Sunday, 0 South Pinellas Edition

LOST IN AMERICA // Families fear deportations

BYLINE: DAVID ADAMS

SECTION: NATIONAL; Pg. 1A

LENGTH: 1979 words

DATELINE: MIAMI



When Cynthia Norori got a dreaded "bag and baggage" letter from immigration
authorities late last year telling her to leave the country or face
deportation, she naively assumed it was just a big mistake.

Norori, 24, had lived with the threat of deportation ever since she came to
Miami from Nicaragua almost seven years earlier. But after marrying an  American
and giving birth to three American children, she figured being sent  home wasn't
something she needed to worry about any more.

So, she went to the Miami offices of the Immigration and Naturalization  Service
to straighten things out.

Naomi, 6, Chabeli, 4, and Jesus, 2, went with her. So did Benigno Soriano,  her
Cuban-American husband.

But a few tear-filled hours later, they would find their lives spinning
helplessly out of control - children without a mother and a family torn apart.

"We went in good faith," Soriano, 45, said. "There's no logic to what  they have
done to us. Don't even try to look for it."

What happened to the Norori-Soriano family, sent shock waves through South
Florida's large Nicaraguan immigrant community.

As a result of an immigration law passed last year by Congress, as many as
60,000 Nicaraguan exiles who fled war and economic chaos in their country in
the 1980s, face a similar fate.

The war ended almost seven years ago and for the first time there is a
semblance of democracy in Nicaragua. Now Washington says it's time the
Nicaraguans went home.

With the April 1 deadline for implementing the new law approaching, exile
leaders are appealing to the Clinton administration for clemency.

Uprooting so many people after such a long time in the United States would
disrupt thousands of innocent lives and cause untold damage to the economies  of
both South Florida and Nicaragua, the exiles say.

"It's a human tragedy. They have paid their taxes, they have been good
citizens, they have had American kids," said Roberto Arguello, a prominent
Nicaraguan-American banker and exile leader. "These bureaucrats are playing
games with the suffering of thousands of people."

Local politicians, including the mayors of Miami and Dade County, as well  as
local members of Congress have rallied to the defense of the Nicaraguans.

In a March 14 letter to Attorney General Janet Reno, Florida Sen. Bob  Graham
wrote: "A move to deport these hard working individuals could be  disastrous for
them, their families and their communities."

As a "by-product" of a war in which the United States was directly  involved,
the exiles say it's the least they deserve. Among those affected by  the new law
are members of the Nicaraguan "Contra" Resistance, the guerrilla  army financed
by the United States, which fought the leftist Sandinista  government in the
1980s.

Over the years many Nicaraguans have become settled in South Florida,  owning
their own homes and businesses and putting their children through  school.

But in many cases their immigration status was never settled. While some  were
able to prove persecution back home and were granted U.S. citizenship,  others
were left in a legal limbo. Typically, they were denied political  asylum but
were granted annual work permits as an interim measure.

Immigration experts say as many as 200,000 Nicaraguans live in the Miami  area,
the second-largest Hispanic group after Cubans. Of those about half have
resident status or are American citizens.

For the rest, the great hope has been that over time their presence in the
United States would become an established fact.

Despite having their appeals for asylum rejected, few Nicaraguans actually  were
deported until two years ago when the pace suddenly picked up. Since  then,
several hundred people have been deported and many more are receiving  "bag and
baggage" letters. The INS letters instruct people who have lost  immigration
cases to pack their suitcases and turn themselves in for  deportation.

Many who were unable to settle their immigration status placed their faith  in a
statute that allows immigrants facing deportation to reopen their cases  if they
have lived in the United States for more than seven years. Deportation  could be
halted, and permanent residence granted, if they were able to show  that they
were of good moral character, had committed no crimes and could  prove that
deportation would cause extreme hardship to them or their family.

Some 20,000 Nicaraguans have so far been able to benefit from this statute.

But hopes were dashed for tens of thousands of others last month by a  ruling
that threatens to accelerate the pace of expulsion. The Board of  Immigration
Appeals ruled that immigrants who were presented with deportation  orders before
the seventh anniversary of their arrival in the United States  are no longer
eligible to have their cases reconsidered.

"It's a Draconian and unfair law, illogical and ignominious," said Ana  Navarro,
Miami spokeswoman for the American Immigration Lawyers Association.  The new law
"has changed the rules of the game half way through play."

According to the lawyers association, there are 60,000 Nicaraguans in the  Miami
INS district deportation docket, two-thirds of whom would have qualified  for
suspension of deportation.

The effect of the law both on South Florida and Nicaragua, would be
"disastrous," Navarro said.

The second poorest country in the hemisphere and with a 50 percent  unemployment
rate, Nicaragua is ill-equiped to deal with thousands of  returning deportees.

Money sent home by Nicaraguan families in the United States, estimated at  more
than $ 200-million a year, is one of the most important sources of income  for
the country.

"This will wreak havoc on the country and seriously endanger the stability  of
the country," Navarro said.

Other community leaders say two decades of U.S. meddling in their country's
affairs make Nicaraguans deserving of special treatment.

For decades, the United States propped up Nicaragua's corrupt Somoza  dynasty.
Then in the 1980s, fearing a spread of communism in Central America,  the Reagan
administration sought to topple the Sandinistas by funneling money  and weapons
to the Contras.

The war left 50,000 dead, and a country in economic ruins.

"It was our blood, but it was the gringos war too," said Nora Britton,  who last
month led an exile delegation to the White House. "We were a  by-product of that
war," she said, refering to the 150,000 Nicaraguan  refugees who came to the
United States seeking safe haven.

With time running out, Britton said, some families facing deportation are  going
into hiding for fear of rumored INS raids after April 1.

Nicaraguans on the run describe their existence as "Operation Armadillo,"  after
the nocturnal creature that evades its predators by burrowing  underground.

Luis Vindell moved out of his home with a wife and 20-month-old baby  daughter
soon after receiving a bag and baggage letter from INS.

A wounded Contra veteran, he moved to a mobile home park, ironically close  by
the Miami INS district office. "It's best to keep the enemy in your  sight," he
joked, reviving memories of his U.S. military training.

But in his situation there's little else to laugh about.

Vindell, 34, is angry at how he has been treated. "The Americans were our  best
allies and now they have turned their backs on us," he said.

"I hope the authorities recognize one day who we were and what we fought  for.
We were struggling not just for Nicaragua, but for the freedom of a  continent.
The senores at the National Security Council know that well."

Vindell was a late arrival in Miami, only getting here in December 1991,  more
than a year after the war was over in Nicaragua. He decided to come to  the
United States after visiting his home town in Nicaragua and coming to the
conclusion it wasn't safe.

"My friends advised me to leave. The Sandinistas were killing people off
systematically one by one."

Today, now almost seven years after the war ended, experts say that  security in
Nicaragua is much improved. But some former Contras may still have  reason to
fear for their lives. Nicaragua's army and military intelligence is  still
controlled by the Sandinistas.

According to a international observers, more than 700 former Contra  combatents
have been killed in Nicaragua since 1990.

"There is still no effective rule of law for those who live deepest in the
mountains," said Timothy Brown, who served in Central America in the 1980s as
the senior U.S. liaison with the Contras. After visiting Nicaragua earlier  this
month to assess security conditions he concluded that former Contras from  those
high-risk areas "should in the current circumstances probably be  granted
political asylum."

Arguello, the Nicaraguan-American banker, said the Nicaraguans are victims  of a
series of contradictions in U.S. foreign and domestic policy.

During the war, the Reagan administration was unwilling to grant political
asylum to Nicaraguans, fearing a flood of refugees would undermine opposition
to the Sandinistas.

"They were concerned that there would be no-one left to fight the war,"  he
said.

"That's absolutely nonsense," said Elliott Abrams, a former senior Reagan
administration official at the State Department, who was deeply involved in  the
Contra war effort.

"The law required that in order to get political asylum you had to show  you
were the direct target of persecution. The Nicaraguans couldn't make that
case," he said.

"It wasn't enough to say, "Jeez this is a rotten country, there's no work  and
you could get shot.' "

Abrams, who was later disgraced over his role in the Iran-Contra scandal  and
pleaded guilty to two misdemeanor counts of withholding information from
Congress, is now involved in research at the Ethics and Public Policy Center,  a
Washington-based conservative think tank.

He does agree, however, that there is now a problem.

While the immigration status of the Nicaraguans should perhaps be  regularized
on humanitarian grounds, putting them at the front of the line  would be unfair
to others.

"I could probably find you 40,000 other people who have been waiting years  and
years having played precisely by the rules," he said.

"That's the problem. Fortunately for me I don't have to solve it."

This week, in an attempt to quell exile fears, the Clinton administration  said
there will be no mass deportations.

But officials say the administration's hands are tied by a Congress that  wants
immigration rules tightened, not relaxed. If the door is opened to the
Nicaraguans, it might also set a precedent for another 250,000 war refugees
from El Salvador and Guatemala scattered across the country.

"Our goal must be to enforce the law passed by the Congress," said Eric  Rubin,
assistant White House press secretary for foreign affairs. "At the  same time
however, we need to do it in a way that is mindful of the human  dimension and
that minimizes hardship on affected communities."

That's not good enough, say exile leaders who call the administration's  offer a
policy of deportation "in slow motion."

For many, like Cynthia Norori, it's already too late. INS said her case was
thoroughly reviewed, but it doubted much of her story and said her marriage in
October to Soriano was one of convenience.

In November, as her three small children from previous unions watched and  wept,
Norori was handcuffed and taken away, leaving the children in her  husband's
care.

After a painful two months, during which Norori was kept behind bars at an  INS
detention facility on the outskirts of Miami, she was finally put on a  plane in
January and flown back to Nicaragua.

All over Miami, Nicaraguans are asking, who's next?

LOAD-DATE: March 24, 1997

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: COLOR PHOTO, DAVID ADAMS; BLACK AND WHITE PHOTO, ALAN DIAZ; BLACK AND
WHITE PHOTO; Cynthia Norori's children Chabeli, 4, and Jesus, 2, pose with a
photo showing their mother, who has returned to Nicaragua.; Luis Vindell with
his wife Olga and 20-month-old daughter Genesis.; Benigno Soriano

                    Copyright 1997 Times Publishing Company


                              106 of 280 DOCUMENTS

                         St. Petersburg Times (Florida)

              April 23, 1997, Wednesday, 0 South Pinellas Edition

Carelessness at the INS

SECTION: EDITORIAL; EDITORIALS; Pg. 12A

LENGTH: 428 words



Citizenship is supposed to be a precious privilege, but it has been cheapened
and demeaned by a pattern of inexcusable carelessness at the Immigration and
Naturalization Service.

Despite instituting new rules and procedures designed to close the  loopholes
that allowed tens of thousands of convicted felons to become  American citizens,
immigrants with criminal records are still slipping through  the cracks. This
troubling conclusion comes courtesy of a recent audit  commissioned by the
Justice Department that found only eight of 23 INS offices  studied had taken
any steps to better screen citizenship applicants for  criminal convictions.
Only one office in the audit was in full compliance with  the new rules.

The rules were implemented last November after Republicans complained the  White
House was squeezing the INS to speed up the naturalization process in  order to
pad the voter registration rolls with immigrant-citizens, who tend to  vote
Democrat. Republicans alleged proper screening procedures became a  casualty of
the rush to naturalize, and an internal INS audit released in  February
confirmed their suspicions.

That study found that of the 1-million people granted citizenship between
August 1995 and September 1996, nearly 180,000 did not receive required
background checks by the Federal Bureau of Investigation. At least 71,000 of
those eventually granted citizenship had criminal records, including 10,800
charged with felonies. At least 168 applicants had been convicted of crimes so
serious, citizenship should have been denied. Another 2,800 cases required
further review.

The latest audit, conducted by KPMG Peat Marwick Co., found the steps taken  by
the INS to fix its flawed citizenship process - including tightening
fingerprinting procedures - have not been followed. It accused INS officials  of
poor communication and sloppiness.

The disclosure has alarmed lawmakers on Capitol Hill who should press for
greater oversight of the agency. They also should demand more accountability
from INS Commissioner Doris M. Meissner, whose apparent shock at the audit
results suggests she is woefully out of touch with her agency. Meissner should
know that granting citizenship to felons convicted of serious crimes is not
only against the law, it is offensive to the millions of law-abiding  immigrants
who were subject to extensive background checks in order to obtain  the same
rights and privileges. She has a duty to hold all immigrants to the  same
standard of scrutiny.

LOAD-DATE: April 24, 1997

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: EDITORIAL

                    Copyright 1997 Times Publishing Company


                              107 of 280 DOCUMENTS

                         St. Petersburg Times (Florida)

              April 23, 1997, Wednesday, 0 South Pinellas Edition

As legal immigration rises, so does debate on the issue

BYLINE: ELLEN DEBENPORT

SECTION: NATIONAL; Pg. 5A

LENGTH: 899 words

DATELINE: TALLAHASSEE



While Congress was squabbling last year about whether to bar more immigrants
from entering the United States, the number of legal immigrants jumped 27
percent to nearly 1-million people.

These were people that the country welcomed as permanent residents to take  jobs
or join their families here - 915,900 immigrants to be exact.

This represents a predictable spike in the level of immigration, experts  say,
and the numbers should decline in the next few years.

Among the U.S. population of 270-million, last year's immigrants counted as  0.3
percent.

Yet the annual figures released Tuesday by the Immigration and  Naturalization
Service renewed the debate in Washington about whether - and  how much -
immigration is good for the country.

There are three schools of thought:

 Stop all immigration for several years until those already here can
assimilate.

 Let anybody come who wants to live in America. The vast majority of them  will
work and pay taxes.

 Allow immigration but control how many people may enter and why they are
coming. Aim to admit those who will be productive or who have family here.  This
is by far the majority view.

Congress decided last year not to limit legal immigration any further, but  it
was busy on other fronts. The laws it passed now make it easier to deport
illegal aliens and make it harder for immigrants to claim asylum.

The new welfare system removes most benefits from legal immigrants,  including
the elderly and disabled. Sen. Ted Kennedy and others plan a news  conference
today to protest that law, and President Clinton has proposed to  change it.

Benefits already are denied to the 4-million illegal immigrants living in  this
country, unless their children are U.S. citizens who were born here.

Nothing passed by Congress last year changed the quotas for people admitted  to
the country legally, however.

"Legal immigration is a highly regulated, tightly controlled system,"  said
Jeanne Butterfield of the American Immigration Lawyers' Association.

There are several reasons the immigration level was so high last year,
according to INS and other experts.

America is still experiencing an immigration bulge based on the 1986  amnesty
program, when 2.7-million illegal immigrants were allowed to stay.

They have become citizens and are now sponsoring their spouses and children  as
permanent residents. The U.S. does not limit the number of those family
reunifications, and about 300,000 such visas were issued last year, nearly 50
percent more than usual.

Another 85,000 visas left over from 1995 were added to the family category.  In
addition, immigrants hired to work in this country - largely in highly  skilled,
high-tech jobs - increased by 38 percent, to 117,499.

"It means the golden gate has been inched open slightly wider," said  Stephen
Moore of the Cato Institute, which supports unlimited immigration.  "We should
be proud to be Americans. The lamp is lifted slightly higher than  it was in the
past."

The influx may be smaller than it seems.

Many of the family members admitted to join U.S. citizens already were  living
here, more or less legally. The government decided not to deport the  families
of immigrants granted amnesty in 1986 and has been letting them live  here and
work.

The one-year jump also was big because the 1995 figures were artificially  low.
INS was operating with new procedures in 1995 and fell behind, so  thousands of
people who should have been admitted in 1995 were added to 1996.

The Federation for American Immigration Reform, which wants a moratorium on
immigration, complains that the numbers can only get higher - or the waiting
lists longer - as more immigrants are allowed to sponsor family members.

"Responsible leaders have a greater responsibility to understand the  forces
driving today's immigration - to assess its true impacts on poverty,  wage
flattening, public costs, congestion, crime and environmental  degradation,"
said executive director Dan Stein in a statement.

Even in raw numbers, immigration is not at record levels. As a percentage  of
the population, it is nowhere near the Ellis Island years. In 1910,  immigrants
arrived at a pace of 12 for every 1,000 residents. Now it's 3 or 4  per 1,000.

A popular analogy among pro-immigration people in Washington is this:  Imagine
yourself in a ballroom with 1,000 people, champagne flowing, waiters  bringing
around trays of hors d'oeuvres. Three more people enter the room.  That's the
impact of immigration - hardly being overrun.

The population is becoming more foreign, and the percentage of foreign-born
Americans has roughly doubled since 1970. But it's still lower than at the  turn
of the century - about 9 percent compared to nearly 15 percent.

Chiles to sue government

   TALLAHASSEE - Gov. Lawton Chiles plans to sue the federal government to
preserve welfare benefits for more than 100,000 legal immigrants in Florida.

Chiles plans a news conference today to announce the lawsuit, claiming many
elderly and disabled immigrants will lose benefits that help them pay for food
and other basics.

An estimated 420,000 illegal immigrants - about 10 percent of the country's
illegal immigrant population - live in Florida.

- Information from the Associated Press was used in this report.

LOAD-DATE: April 24, 1997

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                    Copyright 1997 Times Publishing Company


                              108 of 280 DOCUMENTS

                         St. Petersburg Times (Florida)

               April 24, 1997, Thursday, 0 South Pinellas Edition

Florida sues U.S. to block welfare cuts to immigrants

BYLINE: LUCY MORGAN; ELLEN DEBENPORT

SECTION: CITY & STATE; Pg. 7B

LENGTH: 888 words

DATELINE: TALLAHASSEE



The state of Florida sued the U.S. government Wednesday on behalf of legal
immigrants who will lose food stamps, medical care and other benefits under a
new federal welfare reform law.

Gov. Lawton Chiles said the state will have to pay another $ 1-billion to  meet
the needs of elderly and infirm legal immigrants, due to the law.

"The looming crisis we are facing is not the result of true welfare  reform,"
Chiles said. "It stems from an attempt by Congress to balance the  federal
budget on the backs of Florida taxpayers."

The state's lawsuit alleges that the 1996 Welfare Reform Act violates the
constitutional right of legal immigrants with disabilities by terminating
Supplemental Security Income and food stamp benefits.

About 100,000 legal immigrants, allowed into the country under federal
immigration laws, will be affected.

Chiles said the law also violates a separate agreement between Dade County  and
the Social Security Administration, which routinely repays the county for
interim assistance paid to legal immigrants.

When their benefits are terminated in August, Florida and Dade County will  be
forced to pick up the tab for the immigrants, many of whom cannot qualify  for
citizenship because they have not been in the country long enough, cannot  speak
English or have disabilities that prevent them from speaking at all.

Seated in a wheelchair beside Chiles at a news conference Wednesday was  Rafael
Caramanzana, 32, a Hialeah resident born with severe brain damage and  cerebral
palsy. He legally entered the country in 1983 with his mother, who  takes care
of him, and his father, who earns $ 220 a week, the family's only  income.
Caramanzana has been rejected for citizenship because of his  impairments.

Next to Caramanzana was Eduardo Marsans, 21, of Miami. He entered the  country
legally in 1993 and won't even be able to apply for citizenship ship  before
1998. He too suffers from cerebral palsy and is a quadriplegic and  receives SSI
and food stamp benefits.

The two men and their families also are plaintiffs in the state lawsuit.

Metro Dade Mayor Alex Penelas said the new federal law is likely to cost  Dade
County $ 300-million a year as it attempts to deal with poor citizens who  need
housing, hot meals and medical care at Jackson Memorial Hospital.

"These people are legal residents, many pay taxes and contribute  significantly
to our community," Penelas said.

Maria Caramanzana, mother of one of the plaintiffs, said she came to the  United
States seeking freedom and health care for her son.

"They said we when we came to this country, we had a green light to come  in,"
Mrs. Caramanzana said. "I'm grateful for this country and surprised  that it has
passed an unjust law."

Attorney General Bob Butterworth said the change in federal law only adds  to
the burden of a state that has already paid more than its share of the cost  of
immigration.

Chiles sued the federal government three years ago to try to force Congress  to
pay Florida's costs for illegal immigrants. The case went as far as the  U.S.
Supreme Court but was rebuffed at every turn.

Washington is already moving to restore benefits to legal immigrants,  however.
This was one of the flaws in welfare reform that President Clinton  promised to
fix when he signed the bill last year.

A group of Democratic lawmakers pledged Wednesday to save the immigrants'
benefits in the next 100 days, before the cuts take effect Aug. 1.

"We're talking about enormous suffering and enormous tragedy in the most
serious and unjust way," said Massachusetts Sen. Edward Kennedy.

About 500,000 immigrants, all in the country legally, are expected to lose  SSI
checks. Another 900,000 will be without food stamps by September.

Kennedy and the National Immigration Forum brought a heartbreaking parade  of
refugees to a news conference in Washington.

"As a matter of pride as a Vietnamese, I do not want to be a parasite of  the
American people," said Be Thi Nguyen, 57, fighting tears as she spoke  through a
translator.

"I feel great personal shame because I have to open my hand and accept SSI  from
this country. But without SSI, there's no way for me to survive."

Yet Nguyen is the sort of person Congress had in mind last year when it cut  SSI
benefits to legal immigrants. She has an adult son who works in Boston.
Congress said adult children should care for their elderly parents, not dump
them on the U.S. taxpayers. Nguyen said her son has his children to worry
about.

Nearly half the $ 55-billion savings in the welfare reform bill was supposed  to
come from cutting benefits to immigrants. But now there's an uproar about  the
consequences.

"People are panicking getting calls from their districts. People don't  know
what to do," said Rep. Jim McGovern, D-Mass.

President Clinton has proposed a $ 15-billion plan that would restore  benefits
for most of the immigrants. Florida Rep. Carrie Meek, a Miami  Democrat, says
she'll propose delaying the cuts for two years.

Republican leaders met privately Wednesday to talk about the problem.  They've
mentioned offering more money to high-immigration states, including  Florida,
Texas, California and New York.

- Staff writer Ceci Connolly contributed to this report.

LOAD-DATE: April 24, 1997

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DISTRIBUTION: CITY & STATE; METRO & STATE; TAMPA & STATE

                    Copyright 1997 Times Publishing Company


                              109 of 280 DOCUMENTS

                         St. Petersburg Times (Florida)

                 May 16, 1997, Friday, 0 South Pinellas Edition

Nicaraguans win deportation ruling

BYLINE: DAVID ADAMS

SECTION: NATIONAL; Pg. 2A

LENGTH: 953 words

DATELINE: MIAMI



On his Latin American tour last week, President Clinton promised to soften  the
impact of new immigration laws that have caused deep anxiety across the  region,
especially in the small countries of Central America.

He got a timely boost Wednesday when a federal judge in Miami issued a
temporary restraining order barring the deportation of between 30,000 and
40,000 immigrants - mainly Nicaraguans - under the new laws. U.S. District
Judge James Lawrence King's decision came after a two-day emergency hearing in
a class-action suit brought by 40 immigrants facing deportation.

The order will remain in effect until a full-scale injunction hearing is  held
in the next 20 days. King's ruling, while only temporary, made it clear  which
way he is leaning on the issue.

The Nicaraguans, he said, would suffer irreparable harm if they were forced  to
go home after having put down deep roots in this country. Many have lived  here
for more than a decade, after their country was torn apart by a civil war  in
which the United States was involved.

Specifically, King was referring to the predicament of many Nicaraguan  families
who face being separated by immigration rules under which one family  member - a
wife and mother, for example - can be deported while other  relatives, such as a
husband and children, are allowed to stay.

"They will be separated from family members and forced to go to another  country
where they will or may suffer extreme hardship," said King. "The  plaintiffs
have lived, worked, paid taxes and raised families in this  community. There
would be a devastating impact not only on their lives, but on  this community,
on this state and perhaps other parts of this nation."

One such case involves Lucille Hodgson, an 86-year-old Nicaraguan facing
deportation even though she has lived here 14 years. Some of her closest
relatives are permanent U.S. residents.

Another immigrant is 18-year-old Alexandra Charles, a gifted student who  came
to the United States from Haiti at age 8 after her parents were executed  in the
political violence there.

King's ruling was welcomed by a large crowd of Nicaraguans outside the  downtown
federal courthouse carrying banners in English and Spanish reading  "Justice for
Nicaraguans" and "No More Deportations."

Immigration advocates hailed the ruling as a legal milestone for immigrants
across the country.

"This is an enormous ruling," said attorney Ira Kurzban. "This decision  affects
tens of thousands of people not only in this community but  throughout" the
United States.

The impending deportations have spread fear through Miami's large  Nicaraguan
community, where many immigrants lack permanent status.

Their legal limbo has also become a foreign policy issue, with Nicaragua  and
other impoverished Central American nations claiming they cannot cope with  the
sudden return of thousands of war refugees.

Central American leaders say not only would the immigrants' return strain  local
job markets, it also would deprive the home countries of hundreds of  millions
of dollars in remittances migrants send to their families.

Immigration activists hope the Clinton administration will take full  advantage
of the ruling to force a rethinking of the law.

"If they (the Clinton administration) really want to follow through with  their
promises and if they really want to be logical, humane and save all of  us time,
money and sorrow, they should realize the merits of this case," said  Ana
Navarro of the American Immigration Lawyers Association.

But, while the affected Nicaraguans can take heart from the preliminary  ruling,
more hurdles remain.

The case is likely to be appealed by the Immigration and Naturalization
Service, and although White House officials are privately pleased by the
ruling, they have no plans to bring the issue to a head. They prefer to deal
directly with Congress, rather than risk offending hard-line legislators by
presenting them with a legal fait accompli.

During his meeting with Central American leaders last Thursday, Clinton
expressed confidence that Congress would amend the law. He even suggested that
the United States bore some responsibility for the influx of immigrants  because
of its intervention in the region during the Cold War.

The latter is a point often made by immigration activists themselves, who  argue
that the Nicaraguans represent a special case. Most fled civil war in  their
country in the 1980s, settling in the United States with the  acquiescence of
the Reagan and Bush administrations.

For years U.S. policy encouraged Nicaraguans to remain and work here, say  the
activists, effectively exempting them from deportation until they became
eligible to apply for residency.

Under the Clinton administration, that exemption was ended. To soften the  blow,
the government encouraged Nicaraguans to apply to reopen their  immigration
cases. Those who demonstrated firm roots and good moral character  would be
granted legal relief, known as suspension of deportation.

But in the midst of last year's election campaign, in which both political
parties were anxious not to appear soft on immigration, the rules were  changed.
Under a controversial interpretation of the new law, many longtime  immigrants
were told their years spent here could no longer be counted toward  residency
and that they would be deported.

The attorneys argue that the INS applied the new law retroactively, thereby
unfairly denying many immigrants the opportunity to seek residency.

"It's hard to justify what the government has done here," said Kurzban.  "It's
time to put this matter to rest."

LOAD-DATE: May 16, 1997

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: COLUMN

                    Copyright 1997 Times Publishing Company


                              110 of 280 DOCUMENTS

                         St. Petersburg Times (Florida)

                May 17, 1997, Saturday, 0 South Pinellas Edition

Former USF teacher ordered deported

SECTION: CITY & STATE; Pg. 3B

LENGTH: 479 words

DATELINE: TAMPA



Mazen Al-Najjar told the immigration judge that deportation would amount to
taking away his humanity. His attorney said the former University of South
Florida teacher was the victim of selective prosecution,  a fall guy for a
media-created story about terrorists in Tampa.

In a decision released this week, Judge J. Daniel Dowell said none of that
mattered. He ruled that Al-Najjar, the former director of an Islamic think  tank
described by federal agents as a terrorist front, should be deported  because he
overstayed his student visa by more than 10 years.

Neither Al-Najjar nor his wife can demonstrate a legitimate threat of
persecution if forced to leave the country, Dowell wrote. That's the burden
required for asylum, said Jim Minton, a spokesman for the U.S. Immigration and
Naturalization Service.

Al-Najjar and his wife have 30 days to appeal, Minton said.

Al-Najjar could not be reached for comment Friday. His attorney, Luis  Coton,
also could not be reached, but has said he would appeal any ruling  requiring
deportation.

The judge's decision is the lastest chapter in a years-long controversy
surrounding the World and Islam Studies Enterprise, a think tank formerly tied
to USF that Al-Najjar helped found with his brother-in-law, Sami Al-Arian.

Since 1995, federal agents have been investigating whether WISE was  actually a
front for Palestinian terrorists.

In an interview Friday, Al-Arian said both he and his brother-in-law were
astonished by the deportation order.

"The issue here that no one talks about is that he has three young,
American-born daughters, that he has no country to go to, no passport,"
Al-Arian said. "His violation is a technical thing. Hundreds of thousands (of
people) have the same problem and they get their status adjusted. This is
politically motivated."

In a hearing last summer, an INS agent testified there was ample evidence
linking Al-Najjar to terrorist activities, describing him as a "mid-level
operative" for WISE and the Islamic Committee for Palestine - two Tampa
organizations whose real purpose, he said, was to supply money to groups such
as the Islamic Jihad.

Al-Najjar signed checks made out to at least two people who turned out to  be
terrorists, INS Special Agent Bill West testified. One was Ramadan Abdullah
Shallah, a WISE administrator and former USF teacher who assumed command of
Islamic Jihad in 1995.

Soon after Shallah's new role became public, FBI and INS agents announced  they
were investigating WISE and Al-Arian. At the deportation hearing, they  said
Al-Najjar had been added to the list.

There have been no arrests, but Al-Arian said Friday that people still are
being questioned. "It's a fishing expedition," he said.  - Times staff writer
Barry Klein and the Associated Press contributed to this  report.

LOAD-DATE: May 19, 1997

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DISTRIBUTION: CITY & STATE; METRO & STATE; TAMPA & STATE

                    Copyright 1997 Times Publishing Company


                              111 of 280 DOCUMENTS

                         St. Petersburg Times (Florida)

                 June 6, 1997, Friday, 1 North Pinellas Edition

Ex-instructor may get bail on deportation

BYLINE: SUSAN ASCHOFF

SECTION: METRO & STATE; Pg. 1B

LENGTH: 1019 words

DATELINE: TAMPA



An ongoing federal investigation into terrorist ties at the University of  South
Florida now focuses on a quiet scholar sitting in a Bradenton jail who  is
alternately portrayed as the friend of assassins and a peaceful community
leader.

The difficulty is in deciding between the two.

Last month, former USF instructor Mazen Al-Najjar was jailed without bail  until
the federal government can deport him. Tampa's typically low-key Muslim
community, which believes he is being unfairly held pending his appeal, has
written more than 100 letters pleading for his release and sought help from
national experts on immigration law.

Al-Najjar, they say, is the victim of federal agents' anti-Islamic  prejudice.

But federal authorities say he is a terrorist sympathizer who provided safe
haven and funds to criminals. They say they can prove that Al-Najjar is a
national security risk and should be kept in jail.

What has further outraged Al-Najjar's supporters is that, under immigration  law
aimed at countering terrorism, prosecutors don't have to reveal to  Al-Najjar or
his lawyers what evidence they have against him that suggests he  is a security
threat.

Today an immigration judge will consider bail. Al-Najjar, 40, has been  detained
since a May 14 order to deport him because he has an expired visa. He  has not
been charged with a terrorist or criminal act. He plans to appeal his
deportation, his family said.

Al-Najjar's attorneys say he is the victim of a witch hunt because he  worked
for the World Islamic Studies Enterprise, a USF think tank that closed  in 1995
after a man who once worked for WISE took the helm of the Islamic  Jihad, a
terrorist group in the Middle East.

Al-Najjar is merely guilty by association, his supporters say. If there's
evidence he's a terrorist, then charge him, said his attorneys.

A 12-year resident of the United States, Al-Najjar is leader at the Islamic
Community of Tampa mosque, a position similar to that of a minister, and on  the
board of directors at the elementary and middle school Islamic Academy of
Florida. In addition to teaching a couple of classes at USF, he worked as a
translator. Colleagues call him "the walking encyclopedia."

Al-Najjar's wife, who also has been ordered deported but is not being  detained,
pleaded for their three young daughters, all U.S. citizens.

"Please Your Honor, do not shatter our hope. Allow Mazen to return home to  me
and our daughters," Fedaa Al-Najjar wrote in a letter to the judge.

Supporters hope the bond hearing will shed light on what the government's
almost 3-year investigation has turned up on Al-Najjar, or on his
brother-in-law Sami Al-Arian, founder of WISE.

"The government is not required to identify witnesses," said Jorge Perez,
assistant district council for INS, at an earlier hearing. "No other
information will be provided."

Perez declined further comment Thursday.

An accused's right to evidence and to question witnesses evaporates under
federal immigration laws and the Anti-Terrorism Act passed in April 1996.

"All they can really do is put their client on the witness stand to say  he's
not Islamic Jihad," said Michael Maggio, an attorney specializing in
immigration law in Washington, D.C.

"Judges are really reluctant to challenge the government. You don't want  to be
the judge who released Timothy McVeigh."

Federal attorneys laid out their case against Al-Najjar in immigration  judge
Kevin McHugh's chambers. Al-Najjar's attorneys were not allowed to  attend.
Instead, they got a one-sentence summary on Monday.

"This Court was provided with information to the association of the  respondent
with the Palestinian Islamic Jihad," the summary read.

"I don't have the power to declassify," McHugh replied, when Al-Najjar's
attorneys pointed out the statement revealed nothing.

"In the immigration business," said Maggio, "what Congress is  increasingly
saying is that there is only one side of the story - the  government's side."

Talk of terrorists in Tampa's backyard rocked USF first in 1994, with the
airing of a PBS documentary, Jihad in America, and publication of a Tampa
Tribune series two months later depicting WISE as a way station for
up-and-coming terrorists and USF as dupe.

The issue intensified when Ramadan Abdullah Shallah, an administrator of  WISE,
replaced the assassinated leader of the Islamic Jihad just months after  leaving
USF and moving back to the Middle East. Other WISE participants were  found to
be relatives of Jihad members.

WISE funds were frozen, its records seized, and the home of one its  professors,
Al-Najjar's brother-in-law Sami Al-Arian, searched. Al-Arian, an  engineering
professor, is on paid leave from the university.

Members of the Muslim community believe Al-Arian is the real target of the
federal probe because of his high-profile friendships with political activists
and rights organizations.

Al-Najjar, they say, is in jail because he is more vulnerable. He has an
expired visa and, despite repeated applications to Egypt for extensions, had
been unable to get the needed papers.

Many in the Muslim community believe they are under surveillance. At a  forum
this week at a Tampa Holiday Inn, speakers delighted in beginning  sentences
with, "For the federal informant in the audience. . . . "

"Everything has culminated in the arrest of the president of our mosque,  Mazen
Al-Najjar," Pilar Saad, spokesperson for and a teacher at the Islamic  Academy
of Florida, told the more than 200 people gathered in the conference  room.
"This is over a two-year ordeal in which we have been targeted. We  (come)
together to protect our rights and religion."

On the walls, computer-printed posters of Al-Najjar were tacked beside  banners
reading "Muslims are not terrorists!" In many of the letters to the  judge in
support of Al-Najjar, also tacked to the walls, the signatures were  blacked
out.

"Many in our community are afraid to come here, afraid immigration will go
after them," Saad said.

LOAD-DATE: June 6, 1997

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DISTRIBUTION: METRO & STATE; CITY & STATE; TAMPA & STATE

GRAPHIC: COLOR PHOTO; BLACK AND WHITE PHOTO; Mazen Al-Najjar (ran TAMPA & STATE,
METRO & STATE); Mazen Al-Najjar (ran CITY & STATE)

                    Copyright 1997 Times Publishing Company


                              112 of 280 DOCUMENTS

                         St. Petersburg Times (Florida)

                June 7, 1997, Saturday, 0 South Pinellas Edition

USF instructor linked to Jihad denied bail

BYLINE: SUSAN ASCHOFF

SECTION: CITY & STATE; Pg. 3B

LENGTH: 418 words

DATELINE: BRADENTON



Mazen Al-Najjar was denied bail Friday based on secret evidence that he is a
national security risk, an immigration judge said.

Not even testimony that such clandestine evidence is often shaky appeared  to
dent the government's contention that Al-Najjar is "a threat to society."

The former University of South Florida teacher has 30 days to appeal  judge's
decision.

He was held in Bradenton, pending his deportation for an expired visa. He  also
plans to appeal deportation, a process that can take years. Without bail,  he
would spend that time behind bars.

   "I am extremely disappointed in the laws the way they are today," said
attorney Luis Coton. "If you came here (to the United States) thinking you  have
basic civil liberties, you better start talking to your congressman."

He and co-counsel Martin Schwartz faced an almost impossible task. Five  days
earlier, immigration Judge Kevin McHugh told them that secret evidence,  as told
to him by federal investigators, showed Al-Najjar is associated with  the
Palestinian Islamic Jihad.

Barred by law from hearing the government's evidence, Al-Najjar's attorneys
were forced to argue principles rather than facts. They had former U.S.
Attorney General Ramsey Clark tell the judge about the validity of classified
information.

"I would be very much concerned about the reliability," Clark said.  "There is
information that can readily be determined to be someone's  prejudice, someone's
lies" that goes unchallenged, said Clark, now a lawyer  in New York who was U.S.
attorney general from 1967 to 1969.

Federal agents allege Al-Najjar, his brother-in-law, Sami Al-Arian, and  others
in the former World Islamic Studies Enterprise think tank at USF,  provided jobs
and financial support to terrorists. The investigation  intensified when a
former think-tank administrator, Ramadan Abdullah Shallah,  turned up as head of
the Palestinian Islamic Jihad in October 1995 after its  leader was
assassinated.

"This is a case of an illegal alien who has been in this country more than  11
years and is associated with a terrorist organization, the Islamic Jihad,"  said
Jorge Perez, assistant district counsel for the Immigration and  Naturalization
Service.

"Only detention without bond can adequately address the risks."

The Islamic community in Tampa plans to protest the ruling and Al-Najjar's
continued detainment, which they charge is motivated by religious and  political
prejudice.

LOAD-DATE: June 9, 1997

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DISTRIBUTION: CITY & STATE; METRO & STATE; TAMPA & STATE

GRAPHIC: BLACK AND WHITE PHOTO; Mazen Al-Najjar

                    Copyright 1997 Times Publishing Company


                              113 of 280 DOCUMENTS

                         St. Petersburg Times (Florida)

                June 27, 1997, Friday, 0 South Pinellas Edition

Living up to a promise

SECTION: EDITORIAL; EDITORIALS; Pg. 14A

LENGTH: 402 words



U.S. District Judge James Lawrence King has wisely and eloquently intervened  to
protect the rights of almost 60,000 Central American immigrants, most of  whom
have become law-abiding and productive residents of Florida. The  Immigration
and Naturalization Service and other federal authorities should  heed the
judge's words and cease their efforts to deport the immigrants  without due
process.

Those affected by King's ruling were allowed to move to Florida, Georgia  and
Alabama in the 1980s under special rules designed to protect them from  civil
wars in their countries. Most are Nicaraguans who settled in the  existing Latin
communities of South Florida. Whether they deserved special  status in the first
place is a fair question, but no longer a relevant one.  Having given the
Central Americans a haven denied would-be political refugees  from Africa, Asia
and much of the rest of the world, our government has a  moral and legal
obligation to live up to its promises to them.

As Judge King put it, the immigrants "came with the hope that a nation  renowned
throughout the civilized world for justice, fairness and respect for  human
rights would help them in their time of need." Instead, the Immigration  Appeals
Board has been attempting to enforce new immigration laws in ways that  are
neither just, fair nor respectful of human rights. The board would have  allowed
harsh immigration laws approved by Congress earlier this year to be  applied
retroactively to Central American natives who have lived in this  country for
more than a decade.

King's preliminary injunction at least will slow down the mindless rush to
treat legal immigrants like international criminals. Justice Department
officials have not yet said whether they will appeal the ruling. With any  luck,
the delay will give Washington officials time to come to their senses.

The attempt to target these Central American refugees is part of a much  broader
mindset that is unworthy of a great democracy. Like generations of  immigrants
before them, most of these immigrants have become productive  members of
society. Many have taken on jobs that millions of third-generation  Americans
now consider beneath them. Most of them also take seriously the  democratic
ideals of their new homeland. They have every right to expect their  new
government to take those ideals seriously, too.

LOAD-DATE: June 27, 1997

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: EDITORIAL

                    Copyright 1997 Times Publishing Company


                              114 of 280 DOCUMENTS

                         St. Petersburg Times (Florida)

                             July 20, 1997, Sunday

The L.A. 8's long and continuing ordeal

BYLINE: ROBYN E. BLUMNER

SECTION: PERSPECTIVE; Pg. 4D

LENGTH: 1133 words



The L.A. 8 might sound like the newest rage in musical groups, but their tale
of woe is anything but melodic. For nearly 10 years our government has battled
in court to deport these seven Palestinians and one Kenyan for their political
views and activities. Their story is an object lesson in government power run
amok.

If there was ever a poster child for the continued need for an independent
judiciary, the L.A. 8 are it.

In 1987, the Immigration and Naturalization Service arrested the group in
Southern California, at gunpoint, for the purpose of deporting them as
subversives. Although not charged criminally, they were held without bond in a
maximum security prison for three weeks and later released pending trial by an
immigration judge. Two of the Palestinian men were permanent legal residents,
or green-card holders. The other six, including the Kenyan woman, entered the
country on temporary visas.

Initially, the eight were accused of supporting communism, which a  McCarthy-era
immigration law called the McCarren-Walter Immigration Act  prohibited. The INS
claimed they were members of the Popular Front for the  Liberation of Palestine,
the Marxist arm of the Palestine Liberation  Organization. The eight, all
Palestinian nationalists, were suspected of  distributing literature, organizing
rallies, recruiting members and raising  money for the Front. The INS said it
has proof of their association, based on  secret and classified information the
accused could not see or contest.

In 1989, a federal court judge ruled the McCarren-Walter Act  unconstitutional
and, in 1991, Congress repealed the law. But the government  wasn't finished
with the L.A. 8 - not by a long shot. This was merely round  one.

In the second round, the INS claimed the eight should be deported because  they
were associated with the PLO, an organization that has taken  responsibility for
numerous acts of terrorism, including the hijacking of an  Air France plane to
Uganda. They could be deported, the government said, for  supporting even the
humanitarian efforts of such a terrorist organization -  even though no citizen
could be punished for such association.

The agency was again rebuffed by the courts. The same California judge who
voided the McCarren-Walter act, U. S. District Judge Stephen Wilson, ruled in
early 1994 that the L.A. 8 were unfairly targeted for persecution, and he said
the INS could not use confidential information as the basis for deportation.
The court agreed that the government had selected them for prosecution over
other similarly situated aliens, such as those associated with the Nicaraguan
Contras. The eight were singled out, suggested the court, because our
government didn't like their politics.

The judge also made another important point. He said the First Amendment  can't
be split into citizen and non-citizen categories; every person on  American soil
holds the same free speech and association rights.

With the government having lost two consecutive rounds, you would think the
bout was over. Nope. The government, with its deep pockets and wounded pride,
persisted in its efforts to deport the eight. Never mind that by 1995 they had
all been living in the Los Angeles area for nearly two decades, and none had
ever been charged with a crime.

You might wonder how these immigrants could mount and sustain a decadelong
defense against the government's legal onslaught. They had help. Lawyers from
the American Civil Liberties Union of Southern California, the Center for
Constitutional Rights in New York and the National Lawyers Guild joined forces
to provide the legal muscle they needed, helping to level the playing field.

Even so, by Round 3, the government was not about to quit. It came out  packing
a new punch, this one strengthened by two new acts of Congress.

In 1996, Congress passed the Anti-terrorism and Effective Death Penalty  Act,
which made it a crime for citizens and non-citizens alike to provide
humanitarian aid to any group designated by the secretary of state as a  foreign
"terrorist" organization. Congress also passed a legislative  power-grab known
as the Illegal Immigration Reform and Immigrant  Responsibility Act, which
stripped the federal courts of any power to suspend  the deportation proceedings
of political activists; basically, the law said  the INS had sole jurisdiction
over deportations until the process was over.

Judge Wilson again ruled for the L.A. 8. And just two weeks ago, the U.S.  Court
of Appeals for the Ninth Circuit in California agreed, evoking past  court
decisions that had protected Communist Party members from prosecution.  The
appellate court found that the First Amendment protects people who  associate
with a group even if some of its goals are violent. It said the  government
cannot punish people for supporting a cause unless it shows the  individual
specifically intended to further the unlawful goals of the  organization. This
means we cannot be prosecuted for assisting overseas groups  with their
legitimate activities, such as supporting food distributions and  hospitals run
by Sinn Fein, the political wing of the Irish Republican Army.  It also means it
is likely that portions of the new anti-terrorist law are  unconstitutional.

Similarly, Wilson and the appeals court rejected the Immigration Act
restrictions on the ability of immigrants to immediately challenge the
constitutionality of deportation hearings. Said Wilson: "Review delayed is
review denied."

As it stands today, it looks like the government is gearing up for Round 4.
David Cole, the attorney for the eight, says there are no signs the government
is going to end its deportation efforts. No member of Congress has stepped  into
the fray, either. "What politician is going to stick his neck out and  say drop
a case against alleged Palestinian terrorists," says Cole. "That is  part of the
reason the case has taken so long."

This 10-year political ordeal underscores the very real danger of  government
without limits. Because their ideology was anathema to our leaders,  the L.A. 8
were treated as criminals and would have been ejected from this  country had it
not been for a few generous lawyers, the independence of the  federal judiciary
and the Constitution.

Their relentless court battle has accomplished one thing: It has made good  law
that will help shield others from such abusive government actions in the
future. For this alone, we should put out the welcome mat - 10 years too late.

Robyn E. Blumner is a columnist, lawyer and director of the Florida ACLU.  The
opinions she expresses are not necessarily those of the American Civil
Liberties Union.

LOAD-DATE: July 22, 1997

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: COLUMN

                    Copyright 1997 Times Publishing Company


                              115 of 280 DOCUMENTS

                         St. Petersburg Times (Florida)

              August 13, 1997, Wednesday, 0 South Pinellas Edition

Acquitted Cubans may face other charges

BYLINE: VALERIE Q. CARINO

SECTION: CITY & STATE; Pg. 3B

LENGTH: 595 words

DATELINE: BRADENTON



Acquitted of hijacking charges by a Tampa jury last month, three Cuban men  have
spent weeks waiting in the Manatee County Jail for the day they might be
granted freedom.

On Tuesday, they learned that will not be any time soon.

At a hearing that was supposed to determine whether the men could be  granted
political asylum, the U.S. Immigration and Naturalization Service  unveiled
plans to slap them with new charges, including terrorism.

If convicted of terrorist activity, Leonardo Reyes Ramirez, Adel Regalado  Ulloa
and Jose Roberto Bello Puente could face deportation or prison in the  United
States.

Ralph Fernandez, a Tampa attorney who represents Ulloa, said he wasn't
surprised by the new charges, just distressed and disappointed.

The terrorism charge is probably tied to the incident on Aug. 16, 1996,  that
led to the hijacking charges, Fernandez said. When the Cubans' plane went  down
30 miles west of Fort Myers, the three passengers initially said they had
hijacked the plane, but later said that was a ruse to protect the pilot, who
had cooperated with them to escape but who could have faced punishment in  Cuba.
The pilot denied that and eventually testified against the men.

INS assistant district attorney James Grim declined to comment on the  nature of
the terrorism charge. He will announce the formal charges at a  hearing next
week, when Fernandez is expected to file motions to request  documents relating
to the charge, including immigration agreements between the  United States and
Cuba, Fernandez said.

If the new charges, which include traveling in the United States without a
visa, are based on the Aug. 16 incident, which already has been tried in
federal court, Fernandez said he plans to argue double jeopardy.

Because the terrorism charge has not yet been filed, Fernandez declined to
discuss specifics about a possible defense.

"The quest to prosecute these men is relentless," Fernandez said Tuesday  after
the hearing at the Manatee County Jail. After the trio was acquitted of
hijacking in July, they were taken into custody by the INS pending a hearing  on
their immigration status. Cuba has asked for the men to be sent back, but
Fernandez has said that would be tantamount to a death sentence.

"It's not a question of persecution, but execution," he said.

News of the pending charges outraged some in the state's Cuban community.

"We have to blame the Clinton administration," said Emilio Vasquez, 57, a
member of the Tampa chapter of the Cuban American National Foundation. "They
are trying to do everything to send the Cubans back, and we're not going to
allow it."

  The foundation's Miami chapter also has been watching another case  involving
Jose Fernande Pupo, a 34-year veteran of Cuba's military and police  services,
who was acquitted by a federal jury in Washington, D.C., of  hijacking a Cuban
plane to the U.S. naval base at Guantanamo last May. In that  case, a U.S.
immigration judge recommended denying Pupo's request for  political asylum.

The foundation's human rights director, Mariela Ferretti, said, "We're
definitely worried about these men. We know they would suffer severe reprisals
if they returned to Cuba."

Just as they did during the federal trial in Tampa, protesters picketed in
front of the jail Tuesday, holding yellow signs that read, Castro es el
problema. They also packed benches in the chambers of the immigration hearing.

Walking out of the building, Vasquez said, "We will fight this. We will  win."

LOAD-DATE: August 13, 1997

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DISTRIBUTION: CITY & STATE; METRO & STATE; TAMPA & STATE

GRAPHIC: BLACK AND WHITE PHOTO, (3); COLOR PHOTO, (3); Leonardo Reyes Ramirez
(ran CITY & STATE, METRO & STATE); Adel Regalado Ulloa (ran CITY & STATE, METRO
& STATE); Jose Roberto Bello Puente (ran CITY & STATE, METRO & STATE); Leonardo
Reyes Ramirez (ran TAMPA & STATE); Adel Regalado Ulloa (ran TAMPA & STATE); Jose
Roberto Bello Puente (ran TAMPA & STATE)

                    Copyright 1997 Times Publishing Company


                              116 of 280 DOCUMENTS

                         St. Petersburg Times (Florida)

              August 23, 1997, Saturday, 0 South Pinellas Edition

Lawyer: Cuban witnessed attack plan

BYLINE: RICHARD DANIELSON

SECTION: CITY & STATE; Pg. 3B

LENGTH: 525 words

DATELINE: BRADENTON



The attorney for three Cubans being detained by immigration officials  contended
Friday that one of his clients is a "material witness" to Cuban  preparations to
shoot down Miami-based Brothers to the Rescue planes in  February 1996.

That would mean sure death for Adel Regaldo Ulloa if he were forced to  return
to Cuba, Tampa lawyer Ralph Fernandez said after a brief court hearing.

"I don't see how anybody could send these people anywhere," he said.  "This is a
question of life and death."

Ulloa is being held, along with Leonardo Reyes Ramirez and Jose Roberto  Bello
Puente, at the Manatee County Jail by immigration officials for  attempting to
enter the U.S. without proper documents.

At an Aug. 12 court hearing, officials said the three would be charged with
terrorism, but U.S. Immigration and Naturalization assistant district counsel
James Grim told an immigration judge Friday that no additional charge would be
filed Friday.

"We've been waiting for two weeks for the other shoe to fall, and it  hasn't
fallen," U.S. Immigration Judge R. Kevin McHugh said.

Grim would not comment afterward on the government's plans or evidence  against
the men and attorneys for both sides decided to proceed with the  illegal entry
case in the meantime.

The three men used a knife and gun to commandeer a four-seat, Polish-made  plane
in a suburb of Havana about a year ago and force the pilot to fly toward  the
United States. First, however, they dropped several thousand leaflets
condemning the shootdown by Cuban MiGs of two unarmed Brothers to the Rescue
planes. Four men died in the incident.

After failing to find Miami, the pilot ditched the plane in the Gulf of  Mexico,
about 30 miles west of Fort Myers.

Last month, a federal jury acquitted the three men of hijacking, but they  are
still being detained on the INS's illegal entry charge.

Fernandez, who is contesting that action, went into more detail Friday than  he
has previously about defense allegations that the destiny of the three  Cubans
and the Brothers to the Rescue case are intertwined.

Fernandez gave this account of the connection:

Ulloa, 23, flew to Havana about a week before the Brothers to the Rescue  planes
were shot down. He was aboard the plane he, Ramirez and Puente would  later use
to flee Cuba. At the time, he was an employee of a small tourist  airline.

Accompanying Ulloa on that flight were the pilot they later forced to fly  them
north and a military pilot. In Havana, the pilots spent several days  flying the
small plane over the gulf and then toward shore at different  altitudes,
Fernandez said.

Tracking them, Fernandez said, were Cuban MiGs. He said the pilots  excitedly
told Ulloa about the exercises on the flight home, and later Ulloa  saw them
receive public recognition for their role in preparing to shoot down  the
Brothers to the Rescue planes.

"It was like a practice run to what ultimately happened," Fernandez said.  As a
result, he added, Ulloa was an "unwitting" participant in preparations  for the
shootdown "in that six or seven days before the incident itself."

LOAD-DATE: August 25, 1997

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DISTRIBUTION: CITY & STATE; METRO & STATE; TAMPA & STATE

GRAPHIC: BLACK AND WHITE PHOTO, Photo by BARRY McCARTHY, Sarasota
Herald-Tribune; Alfredo Moreno, Felicia Chaviano, Evelio Pena and Ydelio Viera
demonstrate in front of the Manatee County Courthouse on Friday in support of
three Cubans being held on illegal entry charges.

                    Copyright 1997 Times Publishing Company


                              117 of 280 DOCUMENTS

                         St. Petersburg Times (Florida)

              September 21, 1997, Sunday, 0 South Pinellas Edition

Immigration nightmare has a happy end, this time

BYLINE: SUE CARLTON

SECTION: CITY & STATE; Pg. 1B

LENGTH: 1083 words

DATELINE: TAMPA



In the eyes of the state law, the babysitter  did her time.

In 1979, Austrian-born Margaret Rose was accused of stealing from a
Hillsborough County family who hired her to babysit.  In 1983, she was accused
of shoplifting from a Maas Brothers department store. She pleaded guilty to
grand theft, served  probation without incident and went on with her life.

Yet she recently learned she could be deported for those  long-ago crimes.

The reason: new immigration law that focuses in part on deporting criminal
immigrants. The law expands the definition of crimes that are deportable
"aggravated felonies," regardless of how long ago the crimes were committed.  It
also allows deportation for those  convicted of crimes of "moral  turpitude"
punishable by a one-year sentence.

That, attorneys say, included Rose, who at age 53 suddenly faced  deportation
after 20 years in the United States.

"I felt terrible for this woman," said Hillsborough Assistant Public  Defender
Anthony Lopez, who represented her.

In a  rare case that enlisted the help of a Hillsborough circuit judge and  made
allies of a prosecutor and public defender, attorneys managed to find a
solution for Rose in a Tampa courtroom this month. But immigration lawyers say
they expect  similar cases to come up.

"With the law changing last year and being applied retroactively to  people,
this is not going to be the only case of its type," Lopez said. "I  have another
case like that on my desk right now."

"It's certainly true that the decision of Congress to change the  definition of
aggravated felony and to make that definition retroactive will  impact on
people," said Russ Bergeron, U.S. Immigration and Naturalization  Service senior
press officer in Washington, D.C.

The definition of an aggravated felony includes the obvious: murder, rape,  sex
abuse of a minor, other crimes of violence. The amended definition also  makes
theft or burglary an aggravated felony if there was a jail term of at  least a
year.

The law also includes deportation for crimes of moral turpitude for which a
sentence of one year or longer could legally be imposed. Rose's grand theft
convictions were punishable by up to five years in prison.

A person convicted of two or more crimes of moral turpitude can also face
deportation under the law. Two petty theft convictions could be enough,
according to court records.

"Certainly, the theme conveyed in the changes in the law is they're coming  in
much harder on individuals that have criminal convictions," said Tampa
immigration lawyer Jack O'Flaherty.

Rose, who now lives in South Carolina, was recently working with attorneys  on
another matter when they learned the INS was initiating deportation action
against her related to her 1979 and 1983 criminal cases in Tampa.

Allen C. Ladd, Rose's  South Carolina immigration attorney, communicated  with
the public defender's office in Tampa on the criminal matter. Circuit  Judge
Debra Behnke also was made aware of the situation.

"The charges she entered her pleas to at the time were not offenses she  could
be deported for," said Lopez, who was appointed by the judge to  represent Rose.

"It just seemed unfair," Behnke said.

Lopez was prepared to ask the judge to vacate Rose's guilty pleas. In the  end,
he didn't have to.

In  a rare cooperative courtroom effort, the state agreed to drop one of  Rose's
grand theft convictions and reduce the other to a petty theft - moves  attorneys
believe removed her from the deportable class.

"This was more of an equitable solution," the judge said.

Rose had been sentenced to two years of probation, 100 hours of community
service, and court and prosecution costs. She served her term and did not file
an appeal.

"I made it clear on the record and clear to everyone involved that this  was a
special situation where we had a woman who had complied in all respects  with
her sanctions at the time, who wasn't looking for a handout, just wanted  to
stay in the country," said prosecutor Paul Sisco.

The judge told Rose it was her lucky day.

"She was fully aware that it was the state attorney who saved her,"  Behnke
said.

Rose could not be reached for comment. Ladd said she still faces an  immigration
interview, which was rescheduled while the Tampa matter was  pending.

Proponents of an aggressive deportation law use the analogy of a houseguest  who
commits a crime in his host's home. Shouldn't that guest be forced to  leave,
especially  since there are so many others who would like to be  guests?

From Washington, Bergeron said that the INS is required to enforce the law.  He
noted that, between 1984 and 1994, 55 percent of non-citizens in U.S.  federal
prisons were in this country legally.

Still, some immigration lawyers said they wonder if cases like Rose's are  what
lawmakers intended in  their effort to crack down on criminal immigrants.

Sue Colussy, attorney and director of immigration services for Catholic  Social
Services in Atlanta who worked with Rose's case, said she had another  case in
which a Bosnian refugee faced deportation after getting a year of  probation for
stealing sunglasses.

"While it sounds good that we don't want criminals in the United States,  they
don't think about how this translates into the lives of real people,"  she said.

Before the state agreed to help Rose, her attorney was prepared to argue  that
Rose's guilty pleas should be vacated because, at the time, the judge   did not
specifically tell her in court that she could possibly face  deportation. The
defense had an appeals court case to bolster that position.

In 1996, a Florida appeals court said an Italian citizen who entered a plea  on
charges of lewd, lascivious or indecent acts in St. Lucie County could  withdraw
his plea and go to trial because the judge failed to tell him of the  potential
deportation consequences of his plea.

Because that instruction is not always read at plea hearings, others in  Rose's
situation might end up relying on that strategy.

For their part, Tampa prosecutors caution that their cooperation in the  Rose
case won't be the norm.

"Somebody comes back who's a legitimate criminal, we'll fight it tooth and
nail," Sisco said.

"We don't plan to do this for everyone," he said. "(But) we were  comfortably
sure this wasn't any person we needed to send out of the country  for what she
had done."

LOAD-DATE: September 23, 1997

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DISTRIBUTION: CITY & STATE; METRO & STATE; TAMPA & STATE

                    Copyright 1997 Times Publishing Company


                              118 of 280 DOCUMENTS

                         St. Petersburg Times (Florida)

                           September 28, 1997, Sunday

Enter here, and abandon basic rights

BYLINE: BILL MAXWELL

SECTION: PERSPECTIVE; Pg. 1D

LENGTH: 985 words



"Orwellian" best describes the nightmarish quality of two immigration cases
being litigated in the Tampa Bay area.

Imagine being in your home having breakfast with your family, when U.S.
Immigration and Naturalization Service authorities charge in, handcuff you in
front of your wife and children and drag you off to an unspecified location -
all without charging you with a crime.

Now stop imagining. This event occurred in Tampa on the morning of May 19.  The
victim, Palestinian refugee Mazen Al-Najjar, a 40-year-old  American-educated
engineer who taught Arabic part time at the University of  South Florida, has
been in an INS holding facility at the Manatee County Jail  since he was
grabbed.

Although he has not been charged with a crime, Al-Najjar has been denied  bail
based on "secret evidence" that supposedly connects him with Palestine  Islamic
Jihad, a notorious terrorist organization in the Middle East.

His troubles began in 1995 after newspaper articles suggested that the  World
and Islam Studies Enterprise (WISE), a USF think tank that he managed,  was a
fund-raising front for terrorists and that Al-Najjar was an Islamic  Jihad
shill.

Matters worsened. On Oct. 26, 1995, the head of Islamic Jihad was shot to  death
on the Mediterranean island of Malta. Two days later, another Tampa  Muslim,
Ramadan Shallah, who had been an instructor at USF and a member of  WISE,
assumed leadership of Islamic Jihad.

For area anti-Muslim forces, Shallah's new job confirmed suspicions that  WISE
was dangerous and prompted USF President Betty Castor to officially  investigate
the group. Authorities expected to uncover an active terrorist  cell with a
money trail leading from Tampa to Gaza City.

After the investigation, Castor said: "Was there illegal activity,  subversive
activity, terrorist activity? We don't have any evidence of that."

Nevertheless, Al-Najjar remains in jail, not formally charged. He is being  held
under a provision of the Anti-terrorism and Effective Death Penalty Act  of
1996, which Congress passed in response to the World Trade Center and  Oklahoma
City bombings. Civil rights and immigration lawyers contend that INS  has had,
and has used, the power for more than 20 years to use classified  evidence to
imprison, to grant asylum and to deny residency.

Intended to protect American citizens, the anti-terrorism bill undermines  some
of the nation's most cherished constitutional protections.

The merits of the case aside, the anti-terrorism law lets the government  use
informant testimony or other forms of secret evidence to imprison and  deport
legal immigrants suspected of terrorism without letting the suspects
cross-examine their excusers.

Do aliens have the same rights of due process that thieves, drug  traffickers
and murderers enjoy?

Yes, the U.S. Supreme Court has ruled. But tell that fact to yet another
Muslim, Sami Amin Al-Arian, also a former USF professor and founder of WISE.
Al-Arian has been suspended from teaching computer engineering at USF, and his
home and office have been searched because of his connections to WISE.

He has been denied citizenship based on secret evidence. To see this  evidence,
Al-Arian mailed a Freedom of Information request to INS in May 1995.  Two months
later, the Egyptian-born professor received part of his dossier but  was told
that the FBI was withholding certain "classified" pages as secret  evidence.
Al-Arian persisted and in late August received 18 photocopied pages  cleared by
the FBI.

The secret evidence that had kept him from becoming a U.S. citizen turns  out to
be nothing more than newspaper articles and a column from the Tampa  Tribune.

Al-Arian is dismayed. "It's scary to see the most powerful government on  earth
rely on biased and malicious reports," he said during a telephone  interview.
"If the source of classified material is newspaper reports which  derailed my
citizenship application, God only knows how Israeli and/or Zionist  reports
would be treated by these agencies. I think every citizen should be  concerned
about the abuse of power by the government. It may be tolerated by  the majority
when used against the minority, but, for sure, it would never end  there."

Unlike Al-Arian, Al-Najjar has not seen the secret evidence against him.

If the INS has incriminating evidence, he has a constitutional right to see  it.
Article 6 of the Bill of Rights states: "In criminal prosecutions, the  accused
shall enjoy the right to speedy and public trial, by an impartial jury  of the
state and district wherein the crime shall have been committed, which  district
shall have been previously ascertained by law, and to be informed of  the nature
and the cause of the accusation; to be confronted with the  witnesses against
him; to have compulsory process for obtaining witnesses in  his favor, and to
have the assistance of counsel for defense."

All freedom-loving Americans should be outraged that a legal immigrant has  been
denied these most basic of rights.

But the lives of immigrants, such as Al-Najjar and Al-Arian, may become  more
Kafkaesque before they improve. Soon the House Judiciary Committee is  expected
to take up the Immigration Technical Corrections Act of 1997. This  noxious
proposal would enable the secretary of state to make mere membership  in a group
designated a "foreign terrorist organization" grounds for  deportation.

And, of course, the evidence, deemed "classified," would be kept secret  in the
name of national security.

Obviously, U.S. citizens should expect the government to take all  reasonable
care to protect them from terrorism, both foreign and domestic. But  that same
government also has a duty to protect the constitutional rights of  everyone -
even those in the minority whose ideas and religions the majority  rejects.

LOAD-DATE: September 30, 1997

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: COLUMN

                    Copyright 1997 Times Publishing Company


                              119 of 280 DOCUMENTS

                         St. Petersburg Times (Florida)

              November 10, 1997, Monday, 0 South Pinellas Edition

Paternity matters

SECTION: EDITORIAL; EDITORIALS; Pg. 10A

LENGTH: 495 words



Outmoded presumptions of mothers as child-rearers and fathers as  intrinsically
less involved with their children have been eliminated from most  of our laws.
Everywhere, it seems, but immigration law.

In a case heard Tuesday by the U.S. Supreme Court, anachronistic sex roles  came
under challenge. Under the Immigration and Naturalization Act of 1952,
automatic citizenship is conferred on children born overseas of unmarried
American mothers but not to illegitimate children of American fathers.  Instead,
biological fathers have to prove the relationship by obtaining a  court decree
of paternity before the child is age 18 and agreeing to support  the child
financially until that age.

By the time Texas electrician Charlie Miller got such a decree, his
Philippine-born daughter, Lorelyn Miller, was 22 years old and too old to
qualify for citizenship under the law. She filed a lawsuit funded by her
father, claiming the law violated her constitutional right to equal  protection.
The District of Columbia Court of Appeals upheld the statute,  ruling that "(a)
mother is far less likely to ignore the children she has  carried in her womb
than is the natural father." And the Supreme Court  granted review.

This case should not be a close call. Gender stereotypes have no legitimate
place in our laws. That principle was most recently reiterated in the ruling  on
the Virginia Military Institute. In that case, the Supreme Court refused to
allow generalizations about the traditional roles of men and women in the
military to be a basis for barring women from school admission. Even if the
broad generalities are substantially true, the court ruled, the law should
neither perpetuate nor codify them.

Men are increasingly taking a key role in the nurturing of their children.  But
even if it is accurate that more women than men play that part in their  child's
life, the law should not apportion legal benefits on that basis. The
Constitution protects individuals from laws that attempt to make one's biology
one's destiny. It is unfair for the law to provide differing citizenship
standards for the children of American mothers and fathers.

Yes, it is often tougher to establish paternity than maternity, but modern  DNA
testing is virtually foolproof. It is also true that many more  foreign-born
children have American fathers than mothers, because so many  children in this
predicament - born abroad to unmarried parents, only one of  whom is American -
are fathered by military men overseas. But whether the  change in the law would
affect one child or a million is a constitutional  irrelevancy.

Congress, if it wishes, could change the law to deny automatic citizenship  to
children born abroad to American women (although this would be a bad idea),  but
what it should not do is use antiquated notions of gender as a basis for
treating the children of American men and women differently.

LOAD-DATE: November 13, 1997

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: EDITORIAL

                    Copyright 1997 Times Publishing Company


                              120 of 280 DOCUMENTS

                         St. Petersburg Times (Florida)

             November 15, 1997, Saturday, 0 South Pinellas Edition

A return to fairness

SECTION: EDITORIAL; EDITORIALS; Pg. 14A

LENGTH: 540 words



Sensing a shift in the politics of immigration, members of Congress are  moving
to correct some of the biggest mistakes they made in their  election-year zeal
to overhaul immigration and welfare laws. The welcome  changes will help end
months of agonizing uncertainty for hundreds of  thousands of immigrants living
in the United States who were facing  deportation and other harsh penalties
under last year's legislation.

The backpedaling began in August when lawmakers restored some benefits to  legal
immigrants that had been too hastily eliminated under last year's  welfare
reform. It continued this week when Congress agreed on two measures  that will
allow hundreds of thousands of immigrants facing imminent  deportation to remain
the United States, at least until their cases get a fair  hearing from the
government.

One measure would allow illegal immigrants on the verge of obtaining legal
status to remain in the United States while they apply for permanent  residency.
Under last year's law, these immigrants would have been deported  and forced to
apply for visas from their home countries. The rule was  arbitrary and
impractical and also would have robbed the government of a  needed source of
revenue. Since 1994, illegal immigrants have been able to  remain in the United
States while they apply for permanent residence by paying  a $ 1,000 fine. The
fines have raised about $ 200-million a year for the  immigration service.

A separate measure would ease an approaching deportation deadline for  Central
American and Eastern European refugees who fled war and political  repression
abroad. The bill would grant permanent residence to about 150,000  Nicaraguan
refugees, most of whom entered the United States in the 1980s under  special
rules that gave temporary asylum to those fleeing civil war. Valid  questions
have been raised about whether it was proper for the government to  give these
refugees special status, but those concerns are now beside the  point. Having
offered these immigrants refuge from violence at home, the  United States had a
moral duty to allow them to stay.

The government has a similar obligation to the 250,000 Salvadorans and
Guatemalans and about 30,000 Eastern Europeans who entered this country under
similar circumstances. Congress is making the deportation of these groups less
likely, but has stopped short of guaranteeing them green cards.

Lawmakers also have paid too little attention to the plight of about 20,000
Haitian refugees who fled a bloody military coup in 1991 and have political
asylum claims pending in this country. Omission of this group from the refugee
legislation nearly scuttled passage of the measure in the Senate and prompted  a
panel of senators, including Florida's Connie Mack and Bob Graham, to  introduce
a separate bill that would help protect the Haitian refugees'  rights. That
measure, however, will not be taken up by Congress until next  year.

It is encouraging to see that Congress is adopting a more reasonable  attitude
toward immigration issues. Lawmakers deserve credit for taking the  cruel edge
off policies that helped them win votes by treating immigrants as  undesirables.



LOAD-DATE: November 18, 1997

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: EDITORIAL

                    Copyright 1997 Times Publishing Company


                              121 of 280 DOCUMENTS

                         St. Petersburg Times (Florida)

             December 25, 1997, Thursday, 0 South Pinellas Edition

A reprieve for Haitian immigrants

SECTION: EDITORIAL; EDITORIALS; Pg. 26A

LENGTH: 472 words



In the last days of this year's congressional session, hundreds of thousands  of
immigrants were granted exemptions from deportations that were part of the
harsh immigration law passed in 1996. Cubans, Salvadorans, Nicaraguans,
Guatemalans and some Eastern Europeans were given the opportunity to remain in
the United States while their permanent residency and political asylum claims
were considered. One group was conspicuously absent from that reprieve:
Haitians.

That unfortunate omission was partly rectified Tuesday by President  Clinton.
The president used his executive authority to direct the attorney  general and
the Immigration and Naturalization Service to defer for one year  the
deportation of a group of Haitians who had filed for political asylum by  Dec.
31, 1995, or had been screened through the refugee camp at Guantanamo  Bay,
Cuba, by that date. The order is expected to affect up to 40,000 people.

The move allows many Haitian immigrants to remain in the United States  while
Congress considers two bills that would give them even more permanency.  The
first, sponsored by Florida's two U.S. senators, Bob Graham and Connie  Mack,
would grant this same group of Haitians automatic permanent residency.  The
second, sponsored by U.S. Rep. Carrie Meek, D-Miami, would give permanent
residency to any Haitian who arrived in the United States before Dec. 31,  1995.
Meek's bill would affect an estimated 105,000 people.

Thousands of Haitians fled to this country to escape the violence of  Haiti's
1991 military coup that installed Gen. Raoul Cedras in power. It is  true that
the threat to those refugees diminished after American-led  peacekeepers arrived
and former President Jean-Bertrand Aristide was returned  to office. However,
those refugees should not be forced to leave while their  claims for permanent
residency are under review. For some, deporting them  means taking them from
U.S.-born spouses and children, from jobs and from the  communities in which
they have lived for years.

In issuing the order, the president noted that suspending the deportations
would "help support a stable and democratic Haiti, which, in turn, is the  best
safeguard against a renewed flow of Haitian immigrants to the United  States."

But there is a more important symbolic reason for granting a suspension of
deportation to 40,000 Haitians. Leaving them out of the initial reprieve that
focused primarily on Central American immigrants gave the impression that
light-skinned immigrants are more welcome than dark-skinned ones. With this
action, the president, who has an avowed commitment to racial equality, has
shown himself to be a leader in ensuring that our immigration laws are
uniformly and fairly applied, regardless of color or national origin.

LOAD-DATE: December 26, 1997

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: EDITORIAL

                    Copyright 1997 Times Publishing Company


                              122 of 280 DOCUMENTS

                         St. Petersburg Times (Florida)

              September 06, 1999, Monday, 0 South Pinellas Edition

In immigration, even judges may not see evidence

BYLINE: SUSAN ASCHOFF

SECTION: NATIONAL; Pg. 1A

LENGTH: 2057 words



Some are protesting the government's refusal to say exactly why it is arguing
for the deportation of people it calls dangers to U.S. security.

Immigrants accused as terrorists but denied a look at the government's secret
evidence against them have one check in the system: judges who review the
evidence to make sure it is credible.

Now judges are saying the government is refusing to show its proof even to them.

In two recent decisions, judges assailed FBI agents and Justice Department
attorneys for suggesting in court that they know best, and that the judges
should take their word that the men are threats.

One immigration judge, calling the government secrets "poisonous," granted
asylum to an immigrant in New York. "These issues are to be resolved by the
court," he wrote, not by the government's "interpretations of law."

In the second case, an appeals board member berated the government's arrogance.
"Throughout the entire process," he wrote, "despite (the) immigration judge's
continuing requests, the (government) provided no witnesses, neither
confidential informant nor federal agent, to explain or document" its
allegations.

+++Nasser Ahmed came to the United States from Egypt in the 1980s. He likely
came to the government's attention because of the company he keeps.

In the early 1990s, the 39-year-old Muslim arranged for Sheik Omar Abdel Rahman
to speak at his Brooklyn mosque. Federal agents have called Rahman the spiritual
leader of a group opposed to the Egyptian government and link him to the 1993
World Trade Center bombing.

The sheik was convicted with nine others in 1995 of plotting to blow up bridges
and buildings in New York.

At the trial, Ahmed served as the sheik's court-appointed translator.

As federal agents scrutinized anyone who had contact with the sheik, Ahmed was
arrested for overstaying his visa.

To keep him detained, the government told the judge that it had evidence Ahmed
is a terrorist. In his case and about 50 others in the past decade, the
government cited national security and invoked a 1950s Supreme Court ruling to
keep its evidence secret from the immigrant and his attorney.

Immigration judge Donn Livingston heard classified evidence in chambers, and on
May 5, 1997, ordered Ahmed deported. He denied Ahmed's request for bail while he
appealed.

The FBI and Immigration and Naturalization Service began sharing portions of
their case when Ahmed's attorneys sought relief in U.S. district court. Federal
judges have jurisdiction to consider constitutional issues, including due
process, that immigration judges do not.

The accusations are frightening.

FBI agents say Ahmed relayed a call to violence from the jailed sheik to the
outside world, leading to the murder of 18 tourists in Cairo on April 18, 1996.
Ahmed's arrest on the visa violation came just five days after that attack.

Ahmed's attorneys, now armed with specifics, produced jail visitor logs to show
other people had had contact with the sheik as well.

Initially Ahmed had been associated with an unnamed terrorist group. Now he was
accused of ties to the al-Gama'a al-Islamiyya in Egypt. Other witnesses said the
government confuses that group with the al-Gama'at al-Islamiyya, a collection of
non-violent Islamic organizations working on social welfare, health care and
other issues.

The government's allegation that Ahmed attempted to send a bombmaking manual
overseas was rebutted by a lawyer who testified she had asked Ahmed to translate
the Arabic-language document for another trial. There was no evidence Ahmed had
attempted to mail it anywhere.

Two years after Livingston denied Ahmed his freedom, the judge reversed himself
and ordered Ahmed released and granted asylum.

"Armed with a better understanding of the government's case, (Ahmed) was
successful in rebutting most of the allegations," Livingston wrote in his July
30 decision.

He concurred with a U.S. district court on a secret evidence case in Virginia.
There, a federal judge called its use "an obnoxious practice, so unfair that in
any ordinary litigation context, its unconstitutionality is manifest."

Livingston noted the hardship on Ahmed, a husband and father of three small
children, of more than three years in detention "while the court and counsel
wrestle with the issues involved in the use of classified information in a court
setting."

Though immigration judges are cleared to hear all sensitive material, Livingston
said his inquiries in the case were met with "simple boilerplate phrases, (and)
denial of knowledge or authority to discuss the matter" by agents.

"These issues are to be resolved by the court," Livingston wrote, saying he
would not defer to the INS and FBI.

"Distilled to its essence, the INS position is that the court should deny asylum
where law enforcement agents suggest that the respondent may pose at least some
minimal risk of danger to the security of the United States, without answering
the court's questions concerning the source of the information."

Ahmed remains in jail because the government has appealed.

+++Hany Kiareldeen delivered pizzas and sold electronics to earn a living, and
enjoyed nights out for drinks and dancing with friends.

When he was arrested on an expired visa, the FBI and INS accused him of being an
Islamic terrorist so politically and religiously consumed he threatened Attorney
General Janet Reno with death.

Kiareldeen came to the United States from Israel in 1990, and his marriage to a
U.S. citizen in 1997 usually would prompt the paperwork needed to stay. Instead,
the New Jersey resident, 31,  has been ordered deported, jailed more than 17
months as a terrorist threat.

In a summary of its secret evidence, the government said Kiareldeen has
"relationships with suspected members of terrorist organizations dedicated to
committing acts of violence."

Over the next year, the government provided four summaries of its secret
evidence. Each time, it shared a bit more of its case.

Agents say one of the World Trade Center bombers met with Kiareldeen at his home
in Nutley, N.J., a week before the blast. Kiareldeen produced canceled rent
checks showing that he did not live at the address at the time. Testifying for
Kiareldeen, Laurie Mylroie, whom a retired director of the New York City FBI
office called one of the "world-class experts" on the World Trade Center
bombing, said she found nothing in phone records or investigative files naming
Kiareldeen.

The government alleges Kiareldeen threatened to murder the attorney general to
avenge the World Trade Center convictions. Kiareldeen believes the accusations
about him came from his ex-wife, who reported him for domestic violence during
their bitter divorce. Kiareldeen was arrested six times on her complaints, and
all six times the charges were dropped or dismissed, his attorney in the
domestic cases told the immigration judge.

The INS also charges Kiareldeen failed to pay child support. The judge noted
that Kiareldeen had been on time with his payments until he was locked up by the
INS and unable to work.

The government did not present any witnesses. The ex-wife took the stand and
refused to testify.

Immigration judge Daniel Meisner, who had denied Kiareldeen bail two times,
reversed himself April 2 and granted bail and residency because Kiareldeen's
"compelling evidence" refutes the "hearsay" that he is dangerous.

"The failure of the (INS) to answer these doubts with any additional evidence,
be it at the public portion of the hearing or even in camera, proves fatal to
their case," Meisner wrote in his decision.

The government filed a stay, which was upheld in June by the Board of
Immigration Appeals. The panel voted 2-1 to keep Kiareldeen in jail. The lone
dissenter, Anthony Moscato, echoed the concerns of the immigration judge.

"Not only was (Kiareldeen) unable to confront the evidence against him, the
immigration judge - the individual charged with the responsibility for making a
fair and objective determination - was unable to make his own assessment of the
validity or credibility of the allegations," Moscato wrote.

"In the end, the immigration judge was left, as is this board, with a pair of
difficult alternatives: 1) Accept the allegations as proven, based solely upon
the FBI's statement regarding the credibility of the classified information, and
thus decide in favor of the government, or 2) conclude that the (INS) did not
prove its case and grant relief to (Kiareldeen)," Moscato wrote.

Moscato said he should be freed.

The two board members who upheld the stay cited case law allowing the use of
secret evidence. But they, too, expressed reservations about the government's
proof.

"Like the immigration judge and the dissent, we have some concerns about the
reliability of some of the classified information," wrote member Lauri Filppu.
"We do not necessarily find the conclusions of the immigration judge and the
dissent to be unreasonable."

Kiareldeen remains in jail pending appeals.

+++The INS says it only does what it's told.

"We're kind of the messenger in all this," says INS spokesman Russell Bergeron.
"We don't collect the evidence. We can't declassify the evidence."

The FBI, which collects and can declassify, says it cannot open its case files
because it must protect its sources and investigators.

When asked who at the FBI authorizes an agent to refuse to answer a judge, an
FBI spokeswoman said: "Right now we're not ready to make a comment. This is
ongoing litigation."

The Justice Department and Reno oversee the FBI, INS, government attorneys,
immigration judges and appeals board, as well as being charged with protecting
civil rights.

Justice says it is sensitive to concerns about secret evidence.

It is conducting an internal review on when secret evidence should be used and
how much of it should be shared with the immigrant, said spokeswoman Carole
Florman. The recent criticism by judges is part of the review, she said.

"Our practice is that judges should have access to any classified evidence that
is being presented," Florman said. "Judges are the arbiters of how that evidence
is used and weighed."

Activist groups across the country - including one in Tampa fighting for the
release of Mazen Al-Najjar, a former University of South Florida teacher jailed
more than two years on unrevealed allegations of ties to the Islamic Jihad - say
the immigrants are political prisoners: Virtually every man targeted by secret
evidence is an Arab-American or Muslim. They are victims of racial and religious
prejudice stoked by the country's fear of terrorism, supporters say.

In meetings with Reno and her deputy, Eric Holder, they hear sympathy, but then
see no change in the vigorous pursuit of the immigrants in years' long court
cases, advocates say. Reno and Holder won't comment.

Any allusion to domestic terrorism gives all but the most gutsy jurist pause,
critics fear. David Cole, a Georgetown University law professor who represents
Kiareldeen and others accused in secret evidence cases, said he can't understand
why the agency that enforces civil rights hasn't done more: "It raises a concern
to me that the Justice Department cannot see the obvious problems that the
immigration judge can see."

Former CIA director James Woolsey, who has one of the highest security
clearances in the country, ran into the same wall of secrecy when he represented
six Iraqis seeking asylum. Now Woolsey sarcastically observes that the judges'
complaints put him in distinguished company out in the cold.

"Why the attorney general doesn't get things sorted out is beyond me," Woolsey
said. "Why, in immigration law, does the executive branch have some kind of
right to keep judges in the dark?"

+++The immigration judges in the Ahmed and Kiareldeen cases are not newcomers to
the system, with 18 years' combined experience working for the INS before their
appointments as judges. They still work for the same boss: the U.S. Department
of Justice.

In granting Ahmed asylum, Livingston condemned the government's methods. Some
believe secret evidence is a "valuable tool in fighting terrorism," he wrote,
"(but) this tool is unsuited for use in a courtroom. The poisonous atmosphere
created by secret accusation is impossible to completely eradicate."


LOAD-DATE: September 7, 1999

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: COLOR PHOTO, Associated Press; BLACK AND WHITE PHOTO, (2); Nasser Ahmed
; Sheik Omar Abdel Rahman ; Hany Kiareldeen

                    Copyright 1999 Times Publishing Company


                              123 of 280 DOCUMENTS

                         St. Petersburg Times (Florida)

              September 10, 1999, Friday, 0 South Pinellas Edition

Check secret evidence

SECTION: EDITORIAL; EDITORIALS; Pg. 16A

LENGTH: 555 words



Courts in this country should not even be able to use secret evidence to detain
immigrants. Until the practice ends, judges should make sure they see the
evidence and review it carefully to verify its credibility.

When an immigrant facing deportation is held in jail on secret evidence, his
only hope for some semblance of justice is that an immigration judge will
independently evaluate the credibility of the evidence withheld from the accused
and his defense lawyers. As it turns out, even this soupcon of due process is
not afforded some immigrants.

According to a report by Times staff writer Susan Aschoff, the government is
asking immigration judges to keep immigrants behind bars as security risks
without turning over proof that they are a threat.

While immigration judges have the security clearance necessary to receive
classified information, the government sometimes holds back, asking judges to
trust that the allegations are credible as presented. This gives judges two
untenable choices: Either hold a person in jail solely on the basis of the
government's word or release an immigrant who might turn out to be a terrorist
threat.

In a recent case, an immigration appeals board member expressed his frustration
with this tactic: "Throughout the entire process, despite (the) immigration
judge's continuing requests, the (government) provided no witnesses, neither
confidential informant nor federal agent, to explain or document" its
allegations.

While no judge with any backbone would allow an arrogant FBI agent to get away
with this lack of candor, some judges are intimidated by the government's claims
and afraid of letting someone go who may later commit a terrorist act. As a
result, some judges are actually acceding to the government, keeping people in
jail without knowing the basis for the accusations against them.

No doubt this lowered standard of proof has emboldened the FBI to subvert
justice. After all, when the FBI doesn't have to worry about a rebuttal by the
defense or scrutiny by a judge, it doesn't have to be accountable for the
credibility of the information. Rumor and innuendo can take the place of hard
proof without much consequence.

In fact, when the FBI's "secret" evidence does come to light, it's not unusual
for it to turn out to be the testimony of a bitter ex-wife or a pile of news
clips.

That makes it imperative that judges act as vigilant filters, meticulously
reviewing the credibility and veracity of any sources of information the
government withholds from the defense. The fact that judges are relinquishing
their oversight role in deference to the FBI makes the use of secret evidence
even more unjust.

But regardless of how well judges perform their job, it's an abomination that
our courts allow any use of secret evidence in immigration proceedings. Our
justice system is grounded on certain tenets, including the right to confront
your accuser and hear the evidence against you. Denying those rights to a person
just because he's an immigrant makes a mockery of our commitment to civil
liberties.

Congressional hearings on the Secret Evidence Repeal Act of 1999, which would
bar the government's use of secret evidence, are expected to be held sometime
this fall. The bill would return essential American values to immigration
proceedings.


LOAD-DATE: September 10, 1999

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: EDITORIAL

                    Copyright 1999 Times Publishing Company


                              124 of 280 DOCUMENTS

                         St. Petersburg Times (Florida)

              October 02, 1999, Saturday, 0 South Pinellas Edition

McCollum's new wisdom

SECTION: EDITORIAL; EDITORIALS; Pg. 16A

LENGTH: 394 words



U.S. Rep. Bill McCollum has always been proud of his efforts to purge this
country of non-citizens who have committed crimes. McCollum was the driving
force behind some of the harshest provisions of the 1996 immigration reform, and
he has consistently fought attempts to reform the unjust law.

Only once, when one of his well-connected constituents got caught in the legal
chaos created by the new immigration law, did the congressman show he was
capable of mercy on this issue.

What a difference a U.S. Senate race can make.

Now that McCollum has decided to seek the seat being vacated by retiring Sen.
Connie Mack, the Republican from Altamonte Springs has come to the sudden
realization that the law he helped write needs a major repair job.

With the help of U.S. Rep. Lincoln Diaz-Balart, R-Miami, McCollum has proposed
legislation that would grant foreign-born legal residents convicted of certain
crimes a hearing before an immigration judge before facing automatic
deportation.

Called the Fairness for Permanent Residents Act, the measure is an attempt to
correct one of the biggest inequities created by the 1996 Immigration Reform and
Responsibility Act, which greatly expanded the list of crimes for which
non-citizens can be deported. The law was written retroactively, so that legal
permanent residents, even those now living productive, law-abiding lives, could
be deported for crimes committed decades ago. The law also stripped immigration
judges of the discretion to weigh mitigating factors when hearing deportation
cases.

McCollum's measure would help ensure the law is applied less arbitrarily by
restoring some judicial discretion in deportation cases. It would allow judges
to waive a deportation order based on an immigrant's physical infirmity, old
age, economic hardship or consistent record of good conduct. The measure would
not apply to immigrants convicted of murder, rape or other serious violent
crimes.

The legislation is an obvious attempt to soften McCollum's hard anti-immigrant
image before the Senate race is in full swing. Still, the proposal is an
undeniable step in the right direction. It would restore some of the due process
rights that were stripped from immigrants under the 1996 measure.

It's too bad McCollum couldn't see the injustice in the law at the time he was
pushing it through Congress.


LOAD-DATE: October 2, 1999

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: BLACK AND WHITE PHOTO; U.S. Rep. Bill McCollum

TYPE: EDITORIAL

                    Copyright 1999 Times Publishing Company


                              125 of 280 DOCUMENTS

                         St. Petersburg Times (Florida)

               October 08, 1999, Friday, 0 South Pinellas Edition

Appeal to stay in country rejected

BYLINE: SUSAN ASCHOFF

SECTION: CITY & STATE; Pg. 7B

LENGTH: 292 words



The wife of a Tampa man jailed more than two years on secret government evidence
alleging ties to terrorists has lost her own bid to stay in the United States.

Fedaa Al-Najjar was ordered deported, as was her husband, former University of
South Florida teacher Mazen Al-Najjar, on May 13, 1997. Earlier this week the
Board of Immigration Appeals rejected Mrs. Al-Najjar's appeal.

No decision was issued in her husband's case.

"I'm not going to leave Mazen. I do not understand why they want to get me out
of the country," she said Thursday after being told of the decision.

Her husband has has been detained in a Bradenton jail since May 19, 1997. He was
arrested at their Tampa home, then denied bond on unrevealed allegations by the
government that he has ties to Middle East terrorists.

His is one of about two dozen cases nationwide involving secret evidence against
immigrants, virtually all of them Arabs. Critics say they are political targets.
A bill to bar the Immigration and Naturalization Service, FBI and Justice
Department from using secret evidence is pending a hearing in Congress.

Mrs. Al-Najjar, 35, has not been detained. She cares for the couple's three
U.S.-born daughters and works as a pharmacist. She will likely remain free while
she takes her case to the federal courts, her attorney, Joe Hohenstein, said.

Hohenstein of Philadelphia has been retained by relatives to take the
Al-Najjars' case to its next legal stage outside the immigration system.

Although no allegations of terrorist ties have been made against Mrs. Al-Najjar,
Hohenstein says she is fearful of persecution if she is forced to return to
Saudi Arabia as ordered, because of the government's well-publicized pursuit of
her husband.


LOAD-DATE: October 8, 1999

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DISTRIBUTION: CITY & STATE; METRO & STATE; TAMPA & STATE

GRAPHIC: BLACK AND WHITE PHOTO, Times files; BLACK AND WHITE PHOTO; Mazen and
Fedaa Al-Najjar (ran CITY & STATE); Fedaa Al-Najjar (ran TAMPA & STATE)

                    Copyright 1999 Times Publishing Company


                              126 of 280 DOCUMENTS

                         St. Petersburg Times (Florida)

               October 22, 1999, Friday, 0 South Pinellas Edition

Judge keeps immigrant in jail for now

BYLINE: SUSAN ASCHOFF

SECTION: NATIONAL; Pg. 4A

LENGTH: 453 words



An appeals judge Thursday blocked the release of an immigrant accused of
threatening Attorney General Janet Reno. The decision came a day after another
judge ordered him freed immediately because the government violated his
constitutional rights.

Hany Kiareldeen, a 31-year-old resident of New Jersey who moved to the United
States from Gaza nine years ago, remained in the Hudson County Correctional
Center. He has been detained 19 months.

On Wednesday, in the first decision in the country to find the government's use
of secret evidence against a detained immigrant unconstitutional, U.S. District
Judge William H. Walls ordered Kiareldeen released. The same day, attorneys for
the Immigration and Naturalization Service got a temporary stay to keep him in
jail.

On Thursday morning, Judge Leonard Garth of the 3rd U.S. Circuit Court of
Appeals said the stay will be considered by a three-judge appeals panel Tuesday
in Philadelphia.

Kiareldeen was arrested on a student visa violation, then denied bail based on
secret evidence. The government accused him of meeting with one of the World
Trade Center bombers and threatening Reno. During immigration hearings,
Kiareldeen successfully rebutted those allegations, an immigration judge ruled.

The Board of Immigration Appeals agreed Oct. 15, finding the government's
allegations to be unsubstantiated hearsay.

When INS attorneys blocked Kiareldeen's release Wednesday by obtaining a stay,
his attorneys pressed his release on constitutional grounds with District Judge
Walls. In a strongly worded decision Wednesday, Walls wrote that the "INS'
actions unconstitutionally damaged Kiareldeen's due process right to confront
his accusers."

Walls said the government's unwillingness to provide information not only to the
immigrant, but also to judges in the immigration system denied Kiareldeen his
right to a fair hearing.

Walls' decision was hailed as a significant step in the fight against the use of
secret evidence being waged by immigrant and civil rights groups nationwide and
by almost 50 members of Congress who have proposed legislation to ban its use.

About 20 immigrants, almost all of them Arab, are being detained on secret
evidence alleging they have ties to terrorists. They include Tampa resident
Mazen Al-Najjar, who has been held in a Bradenton jail more than two years.

A ruling in the 3rd Circuit would not be binding on all secret evidence cases,
but certainly would be influential, lawyers say.

In the immigration system, Kiareldeen may yet be given bail so he can leave
jail. A decision on that issue is pending before the Board of Immigration
Appeals. The board's actions are separate from those in federal courts.


LOAD-DATE: October 22, 1999

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: BLACK AND WHITE PHOTO; Hany Kiareldeen

                    Copyright 1999 Times Publishing Company


                              127 of 280 DOCUMENTS

                         St. Petersburg Times (Florida)

              October 28, 1999, Thursday, 0 South Pinellas Edition

Former USF teacher will fight deportation in federal court

BYLINE: SUSAN ASCHOFF

SECTION: CITY & STATE; Pg. 3B

LENGTH: 483 words



An appeal to an immigration panel fails for a Palestinian accused of having ties
to terrorists.

A former University of South Florida teacher jailed 2 1/2 years on secret
evidence linking him to Middle East terrorists has lost an appeal of his
deportation and will now take his fight to federal court.

The Board of Immigration Appeals on Tuesday upheld an immigration judge's order
deporting Mazen Al-Najjar, 42, a Palestinian who moved to the United States from
Gaza in 1981.

He was arrested at his Tampa home in May 1997 on a visa violation. He was denied
bail when the government said he has ties to the Palestinian Islamic Jihad and
is a national security threat.

The government's evidence has not been shared with Al-Najjar or his attorneys.

Al-Najjar, who has been in a Bradenton jail since his arrest, is one of about 20
immigrants across the country who are detained on secret evidence. Almost all
are Arab, and critics say their constitutional rights are being violated.

A federal judge agreed in one of the cases, ruling Oct. 20 that Hany Kiareldeen
in New Jersey had been denied his constitutional rights. Kiareldeen was freed
Monday after an immigration judge and the Board of Immigration Appeals granted
him residency.

Al-Najjar's case is more problematic than most. Kiareldeen, for example, was
given several specifics of the government's case and successfully rebutted the
allegations at his hearings.

Al-Najjar knows only that the government targeted him because he worked at a
Tampa think tank with Ramadan Abdullah Shallah, who left Tampa in 1995 and a few
months later became the head of the Palestinian Islamic Jihad.

Kiareldeen's marriage to a U.S. citizen strengthened his request for residency.
Al-Najjar's wife, Fedaa Al-Najjar, has also been ordered deported on an expired
visa. She lost her appeal  this month. The couple have  three U.S.-born
daughters.

While Fedaa Al-Najjar has not been accused of associating with terrorists, the
Al-Najjars' attorney, Joe Hohenstein, said Wednesday that they are both tainted
by the government's allegations.

He will argue in federal court that the immigration judge and the Board of
Immigration Appeals erred because they failed to consider the impact of those
accusations on the family's treatment in another country.

"If (Al-Najjar) is alleged to be a terrorist that publicly, he's going to be
considered a terrorist by any country he tries to go to" and needs asylum here,
said Hohenstein, of Philadelphia.

Family members, weary of Al-Najjar's lengthy incarceration, have unsuccessfully
sought a country that would take the family.

Mazen Al-Najjar has been ordered deported to the United Arab Emirates and Fedaa
Al-Najjar to Saudi Arabia, their last countries of residence. The Al-Najjars do
not want to split their family, and relatives say both countries have already
said they will not take them.


LOAD-DATE: October 28, 1999

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DISTRIBUTION: CITY & STATE; METRO & STATE; TAMPA & STATE

GRAPHIC: BLACK AND WHITE PHOTO; Mazen Al-Najjar

                    Copyright 1999 Times Publishing Company


                              128 of 280 DOCUMENTS

                         St. Petersburg Times (Florida)

                November 02, 1999, Tuesday, 2 Late Tampa Edition

Bekhor's sign-up for voting studied

BYLINE: LARRY DOUGHERTY; DAVID KARP

SECTION: NATIONAL; Pg. 1A

LENGTH: 759 words

DATELINE: TAMPA



Already at the center of a federal probe, David Bekhor now is under scrutiny for
misstating his citizenship.

David Bekhor, the man at the center of a federal corruption probe, swore two
years ago he was a U.S. citizen when he registered to vote in Hillsborough
County. He was not.

Lying on a voter registration form is a third-degree felony under Florida law,
punishable by up to five years in prison. Under federal immigration law it could
be grounds to expel Bekhor, a native of Israel who now is a permanent U.S.
resident.

Immigration and local elections officials have asked federal and state
prosecutors to investigate.

In a deposition a year ago in a business lawsuit, Bekhor debunked several claims
besides his citizenship: He has only a bachelor's degree, not the advanced
degrees he has claimed at various times.

In the sworn statement, Bekhor also made a vague reference to training from the
Israeli military, saying it was "intelligence I cannot share."

Bekhor, through an attorney, declined to comment Monday. Bekhor is president of
MSI, a medical equipment company based in Hillsborough County.

Federal prosecutors already are scrutinizing Bekhor for his relationship with
Hillsborough County Commissioners Jim Norman and Tom Scott. The public officials
were accused last year of putting pressure on Tampa General Hospital officials
to buy expensive medical equipment from Bekhor.

Bekhor's voter registration will get more official attention. The U.S.
Immigration and Naturalization Service plans to refer Bekhor's case to federal
prosecutors, an INS spokesman said Monday.

Hillsborough Elections Supervisor Pam Iorio said she will refer it to
Hillsborough State Attorney Harry Lee Coe today. Coe's office already is
investigating an allegation that Norman lied to conceal his stay with Bekhor at
a Las Vegas casino hotel last month.

The St. Petersburg Times reported Sunday that Bekhor, his family, companies and
associates have given local campaigns $ 17,500 in the past three years.

Yet Bekhor has not voted in an election since he registered March 31, 1997. On
the form, he checked a box saying he was a U.S. citizen. He also took an oath
saying he was truthful. The 41-year-old Bekhor claimed no party affiliation at
the time.

"It definitely has implications on his ability to retain residency," said James
Minton, the officer in charge for the INS in Tampa. "It's a possible bar to him
becoming a U.S. citizen."

Bekhor has no pending application for citizenship, Minton said. Nor has he ever
had one denied.

Minton said an internal inquiry into Bekhor's status predated newspaper
inquiries Monday. Asked if that meant the FBI had asked about Bekhor, Minton
said, "Yes, but you really need to talk to the FBI about that." An FBI
spokeswoman could not be reached for comment. Nor could a spokesman for the U.S.
Attorney's Office.

Bekhor conceded he was not a U.S. citizen during a November 1998 deposition in
Tampa. He had sued an Israeli medical equipment manufacturer over distribution
rights.

He testified he was born in Israel, received the equivalent of a bachelor's
degree in engineering from a school in Tel Aviv in 1977 and served in the
Israeli military from 1977 to 1981. He said he has been a permanent resident of
the United States since 1990.

Bekhor gave different details during a December 1997 deposition in another civil
case. Asked about his educational degrees, Bekhor replied, "I joined the Israeli
air force/army in 1974, and the year I went into the service, at the same time I
accomplished my degrees. I have an engineering degree in electronics
engineering, as well as a master degree in electronics engineering. I started to
pursue my PhD in 1979, and I am probably six months away from finishing it."

A resume Bekhor submitted when he joined the Hillsborough Community College
Foundation in 1995 claimed bachelor's and master's degrees in electronic
engineering, as well as a doctorate in nuclear physics. Bekhor also claimed he
had been a lieutenant colonel in Israel's air force.

When Bekhor gave $ 500 last year to U.S. Rep. Michael Bilirakis' re-election
campaign, his occupations were listed as PhD and MD.

Former Hillsborough Commissioner Joe Chillura said in an interview that Bekhor
told him "he taught U.S. pilots how to use computer instruments."

Bekhor told Commissioner Chris Hart about his doctorate in nuclear physics and
his service in the Israeli Air Force, Hart said in an interview last year.

- Times staff writer Jeff Testerman contributed to this report.


LOAD-DATE: November 2, 1999

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: COLOR PHOTO; David Bekhor

                    Copyright 1999 Times Publishing Company


                              129 of 280 DOCUMENTS

                         St. Petersburg Times (Florida)

              November 19, 1999, Friday, 0 South Pinellas Edition

Egyptian wins round in fight to be freed

SOURCE: Compiled from Times Wires

SECTION: NATIONAL; Pg. 9A

LENGTH: 906 words

DATELINE: NEW YORK; FULLERTON, Calif.; CAPE CANAVERAL; PALM SPRINGS



The Board of Immigration Appeals on Thursday upheld a judge's decision to
release a man who once served as a translator for Muslim cleric Sheik Omar
Abdel-Rahman and has been jailed nearly four years because immigration
authorities said they had secret evidence against him.

The Immigration and Naturalization Service requested that it not be required to
release Nasser Ahmed, a 39-year-old Egyptian national, until 5 p.m. today. The
INS could appeal the case to the U.S. Attorney General's Office.

The possibility that Ahmed may be let out of the Metropolitan Correctional
Center in Manhattan on his own recognizance came because of a Sept. 27 decision
by Immigration Judge Donn Livingston in Manhattan during Ahmed's bond
re-determination hearings.

Ahmed, who has been trained as an engineer, immigrated to the United States in
the 1980s and settled in Brooklyn. He became Abdel-Rahman's translator and
paralegal in 1995, when the cleric was tried in federal court and convicted for
conspiring to blow up New York City landmarks.

Though Ahmed repeatedly denied being involved in terrorist activity, the INS
arrested him in March 1996. The agency cited the existence of secret evidence
against Ahmed to hold him while trying to get him deported. The provision has
been used in about two dozen cases nationally in which the INS has asserted
national security concerns as the basis for not allowing immigrants to examine
evidence and confront witnesses.

15 hurt as trains collide

in Southern California

FULLERTON, Calif. - A commuter train carrying about five dozen passengers from
Los Angeles to Oceanside collided with a freight train early Thursday, injuring
15 people.

The most serious injury was a broken leg, said city spokesman Joe Felz. None of
the passenger cars derailed.

Federal railroad authorities and National Transportation Safety Board officials
were trying to determine the cause of the crash.

More wiring flaws

found in "Discovery'

CAPE CANAVERAL - NASA discovered more wiring problems Thursday on space shuttle
Discovery, due to blast off next month with crucial replacement parts for the
Hubble Space Telescope.

Because the inspections are ongoing, it's too soon to know whether any repairs
would delay the Dec. 6 launch, said NASA spokesman Joel Wells.

Technicians found minor flaws in the insulation of wiring needed to relay
electrical power from the shuttle to the external fuel tank and solid rocket
boosters, Wells said. The discovery was made after cracks were found in similar
wiring aboard Endeavour.

In court . . .

VALUJET CRASH: SabreTech mechanics packed about 90 to 120 outdated oxygen
generators - without shipping caps - in boxes and set them aside for ValuJet,
one of the packers testified Thursday in his former employer's trial in Miami.

SabreTech, a vice president and a mechanic are charged with conspiracy to lie on
paperwork saying caps were installed when they were missing. The generators were
blamed for fueling a cargo fire that brought down ValuJet Flight 592 in May
1996, killing all 110 people on board.

Mechanic Robert Rodriguez described how he and five others packed generators
into three boxes. He noticed some had discharged earlier, some had not, and two
activated during the packing process.

Rodriguez said his supervisor told him the generators would be thrown away. But
a SabreTech shipping employee later redistributed them into five boxes with
bubble wrap, and they were delivered to the ValuJet DC-9 that crashed.

CASTRO DEATH PLOT: U.S. coastal authorities testifying at the trial of six Cuban
exiles accused of plotting to kill Fidel Castro said Thursday in San Juan,
Puerto Rico, that the men were carrying neither fishing equipment nor tools to
rescue refugees - stories they gave when stopped nearPuerto Rico two years ago.

Coast Guard and Customs officials were among those who testified in the trial,
which began Monday but was interrupted for two days by Hurricane Lenny. It
resumed Thursday with details of the men's yacht being stopped by a Coast Guard
cutter for a routine check on Oct. 27, 1997.

U.S. Coast Guard Petty Officer Hunter Crider, among guardsmen who boarded La
Esperanza, testified Thursday that he and other officers became suspicious when
the men gave conflicting answers to routine questions such as where they were
headed and what the purpose of the trip was.

The most widely known defendant is Jose Antonio Llamas, a director of the
influential Miami-based Cuban American National Foundation. Castro has accused
the group of trying to kill him - a charge the foundation denies.

6 hurt slightly in emergency landing

PALM SPRINGS, Calif. - An American Airlines Boeing 767 made an emergency landing
Thursday after the cabin lost pressure at 31,000 feet. Six minor injuries were
reported.

Flight 160 was heading from San Diego to New York with 124 people aboard when a
compressed air line burst in the passenger compartment, said Mitch Barker, a
spokesman for the Federal Aviation Administration. Aircraft insulation spewed
into the cabin, the airline said.

The oxygen masks dropped, and the captain lowered the jetliner from 31,000 feet
to 10,000 feet before landing at the Palm Springs airport about a half-hour
later.

The injured included Barney Miller actor Abe Vigoda, said business manager
Rosanne Carlton. "He did have a slight ear problem. I think it was just ear
pressure and a bloody nose," she said.


LOAD-DATE: November 19, 1999

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: DIGEST

                    Copyright 1999 Times Publishing Company


                              130 of 280 DOCUMENTS

                         St. Petersburg Times (Florida)

              November 30, 1999, Tuesday, 0 South Pinellas Edition

Immigrant jailed on secret evidence is freed

BYLINE: SUSAN ASCHOFF

SECTION: NATIONAL; Pg. 9A

LENGTH: 432 words



An immigrant jailed almost four years on secret evidence in New York was
released Monday after the government withdrew its request to Attorney General
Janet Reno to hold him while he seeks asylum.

Nasser Ahmed had been denied bail repeatedly because the Immigration and
Naturalization Service and the FBI said he was a threat to national security and
has ties to terrorists. After an immigration judge examined the evidence
privately and found it largely hearsay, the judge and an immigration appeals
panel both granted Ahmed his freedom.

INS decided on Monday not to fight his release any longer.

"I'm very grateful for all the lawyers who . . . worked very hard for my
release," said a jubilant Ahmed. His accusers "are liars and they know they are
liars," he said. ". . . They knew from Day One I had nothing to do with
(terrorism)."

Ahmed's asylum is still pending.

INS did not explain Monday why it withdrew its request to Reno 11 days after
first asking her to intervene.

The attorney general had until 5 p.m. to take the case for review or let a Nov.
18 Board of Immigration Appeals decision upholding Ahmed's release stand.
Instead, the INS withdrew its request. Ahmed's attorneys speculated it was
self-protection: Reno had decided not to review and a written rejection would
set a bad precedent for the INS in other secret evidence cases.

"It's troubling because it's another situation where the use of secret evidence
is challenged and (INS) withdraws (to) avoid any final determination against
them," said David Cole, a Georgetown University professor who has worked on
several such cases.

About two dozen immigrants across the country are detained on accusations of
terrorist ties and evidence neither they nor their attorneys are allowed to see.
Critics say the men, overwhelmingly Arab and Muslim, are victims of prejudice
and denied due process.

One of those in detention, Tampa resident Mazen Al-Najjar, has been jailed more
than two years on alleged ties to the Palestinian Islamic Jihad.

Cole said that in at least three cases the government has backed off so it can
continue to use secret evidence unthwarted by legal precedents.

Most recently, New Jersey immigrant Hany Kiareldeen was freed Oct. 25 after a
federal judge found secret evidence unconstitutional. INS dropped its fight
rather than risk a scheduled hearing before the 3rd U.S. Circuit Court of
Appeals.

Immigrant advocates hoped Ahmed's case would force Reno to take a public
position on the use of secret evidence.

-Information from the Associated Press was used in this report.


LOAD-DATE: November 30, 1999

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: BLACK AND WHITE PHOTO; Nasser Ahmed

                    Copyright 1999 Times Publishing Company


                              131 of 280 DOCUMENTS

                         St. Petersburg Times (Florida)

              January 13, 2000, Thursday, 0 South Pinellas Edition

Reno upholds father's custody rights to Elian

BYLINE: DAVID ADAMS

SECTION: NATIONAL; Pg. 1A

LENGTH: 873 words

DATELINE: MIAMI



COURT OVERSTEPPED: The attorney general says the Florida court had no business
ordering a custody hearing.

U.S. Attorney General Janet Reno on Wednesday upheld an immigration order to
return the shipwrecked 6-year-old Cuban boy, Elian Gonzalez, to his father in
Cuba.

In a letter addressed to lawyers for the boy's Miami relatives, Reno said a
Miami-Dade Circuit Court had overstepped its bounds Monday when a judge granted
Elian's great-uncle temporary custody.

"The question of who may speak for a 6-year-old child in applying for admission
or asylum is a matter of federal immigration law," Reno wrote. "The Florida
court's order has no force or effect, insofar as (federal) administration of the
immigration laws is concerned."

In order to permit expected legal challenges, Reno said the Friday deadline for
Elian's return, originally set by the Immigration and Naturalization Service,
had been extended indefinitely.

But it remained unclear Wednesday what effect this would have on the legal
wrangles over Elian, or how soon he might be reunited with his father.

Lawyers for Elian's Miami relatives said Reno had it all wrong and said they
were prepared to take the case to federal court if necessary.

"We are not going to turn this boy over," said Jose Garcia-Pedrosa, one of the
family's pro-bono legal team. "We are disappointed that she (Reno) is not going
to respect the court order."

However, legal experts heralded Reno's letter as a welcome sign that the
government was determined to bring Elian's fate to a swift conclusion.

"She is putting the family's attorneys on notice that they have exhausted all of
the administrative remedies," said Bernard Perlmutter, director of the
University of Miami's Children and Youth Law Clinic. "The decision of the INS is
now final."

Cuban-American leaders who organized street demonstrations last week, put
Miami's large exile community on alert Wednesday but have yet to call for more
protests.

The exiles thought they had won a significant victory Monday when Judge Rosa
Rodriguez gave Elian's relatives temporary custody of the boy until a full
hearing on March 6.

That ruling was immediately challenged by a host of legal experts who said the
local judge lacked jurisdiction and also had violated state laws that recognize
the father's exclusive right to custody over his child.

The judge's ruling was further tainted by revelations that she failed to
disclose a prior business interest with a prominent Cuban American political
consultant advising Elian's Miami relatives.

Arguing that communist Cuba is no fit place for any child to grow up, the city's
exile activists have vowed to campaign to the bitter end to prevent Elian's
return.

Their cause received a boost Wednesday when one of only two other survivors from
Elian's November boat trip from Cuba gave the first witness account of the
tragedy that claimed the life of the boy's mother and 10 others.

Nivaldo Fernandez, 33, said Elian should be allowed to stay in the United
States.

"He has a more possibilities, a future here," he said.

His description of the dying moments of Elizabet Broton - Elian's mother - added
strength to exile claims that her efforts to bring her son to the United States
should be respected.

"We all fought to save ourselves, but she only wanted to save the life of her
son," Fernandez said.

Elian's mother wrapped her own coat around Elian to keep out the nighttime cold
and gave her small supply of water to the boy.

"The only one who drank water was Elian. At every moment she looked after the
boy until she lost her life," Fernandez said, describing how they finally lost
touch with each other during the night when the three inner tubes they were
clinging to drifted apart.

Cuban-American exile leaders also sought to capitalize Wednesday on a statement
made by Elian himself, captured by radio and television microphones as he played
in his great-uncle's back yard.

All day, Spanish language radio stations repeatedly broadcast the voice of Elian
saying: "I don't want to be returned to Cuba."

Exile activists seized on those words to demand that the courts recognize
Elian's right to speak for himself.

"Elian has spoken," said Maximino Perez, 62, one of a group of exiles who
gathered Wednesday outside the home where Elian is living. "What more do the
courts need to know."

But Reno's letter made it clear Wednesday that Elian's views on his future are
irrelevant.

"Elian is too young to make legal decisions for himself," she wrote, pointing
out that the INS had already ruled his father has the sole legal authority to
represent him.

"It really turns on the age and maturity of the child and his ability to speak
for himself," Perlmutter said. "In this case we have a very, very young child of
tender years who is incapable of speaking for himself. He should be heard from,
but only through his father, unless there is conclusive evidence that the father
is unfit and incapable of speaking on behalf of his son."

The INS interviewed the father, Juan Miguel Gonzalez, in Cuba last month and
determined that he enjoyed a "very close relationship" with Elian. Gonzalez has
repeatedly expressed his desire to be reunited with his son.


LOAD-DATE: January 13, 2000

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: COLOR PHOTO; COLOR PHOTO, JOHN PENDYGRAFT; Janet Reno; The media swarm
surrounding Elian as he leaves for school Wednesday.

                    Copyright 2000 Times Publishing Company


                              132 of 280 DOCUMENTS

                         St. Petersburg Times (Florida)

              January 20, 2000, Thursday, 0 South Pinellas Edition

Elian's Miami relatives file lawsuit to keep him in U.S.

BYLINE: DAVID ADAMS

SECTION: NATIONAL; Pg. 4A

LENGTH: 804 words

DATELINE: MIAMI



Attorneys for the Miami relatives of the shipwrecked 6-year-old Cuban boy, Elian
Gonzalez, filed a federal lawsuit Wednesday challenging an immigration ruling
that he be returned to his father in Cuba.

"Most people in this country want Elian to have his day in court," said the
relatives' lead attorney, Spencer Eig.

Standing on the courthouse steps, surrounded by members of the boy's Miami
family as well as Cuban exile political leaders, Eig said the case of Elian
Gonzalez vs. Janet Reno was not an attempt to resolve the contentious
2-month-old custody battle.

Instead, he said it was designed to prevent Elian's being returned to Cuba
before his case has been heard by a judge.

"This is a lawsuit that serves the purpose of trying to compel the United States
government to give Elian Gonzalez his constitutional rights," he said.

There was no immediate reaction Wednesday from the Justice Department. This
month the Immigration and Naturalization Service ruled that the boy should be
returned to Cuba by Jan. 14. That ruling was upheld last week by Attorney
General Janet Reno, although the deadline was extended.

Lawyers for the boy's Miami relatives want custody to be given to his
great-uncle, arguing that Elian would suffer "irreparable harm" if sent back to
communist Cuba.

However, the lawsuit presented few new arguments likely to impress the court,
said legal experts.

"This case is on weak ground," said Bernard Perlmutter, a family law expert at
the University of Miami. "The great-uncle has no standing to bring this suit."

But the Miami attorneys were quietly pleased about one immediate development
Wednesday. The case was assigned by random computer selection to Senior Judge
James L. King, one of the Southern District's most experienced judges, who is
considered by some Cuban exiles to be sympathetic to their cause.

In a December 1997 ruling, King found the Cuban government guilty of
premeditated murder in the case of three Cuban exile pilots shot down over the
Straits of Florida.

In a powerfully worded ruling, King accused the Cuban government of "outrageous
contempt for international law" and awarded the victims' families $
186.7-million in damages.

"I'm sure in the hands of Judge King this case will take its rightful course,"
said Jose Basulto, president of Brothers to the Rescue, the exile pilots group
involved in the downing of the planes.

Basulto, who accompanied the Miami relatives to court Wednesday, is one of the
exile leaders who led protests in Miami this month over the INS ruling to
repatriate Elian.

"If he goes back there, he will be used as a tool of political propaganda by the
Castro regime," Basulto said. "This child cannot have a normal life in Cuba. The
child will be the property of the Cuban government, not of the father. There's
only one law in Cuba - that's Fidel Castro."

The lawsuit alleges that if Elian is forced to return, he will be unfairly
subjected to political and psychological pressures in Cuba.

"Elian would likely be compelled to demonstrate complete loyalty and militancy
on behalf of the Cuban government," it says. "He would be politically
indoctrinated to a much larger extent than others. He would also be compelled to
believe that his deceased mother and stepfather, not to mention his relatives in
Cuba, were traitors to the revolution."

The boy's mother and stepfather drowned at sea in November trying to flee Cuba
with Elian and nine others. Elian was found clinging to an inner tube by
fishermen off Miami.

The lawsuit says Elian's stepfather was twice jailed in Cuba for his political
views. It alleges that as a result, Elian's mother was also interrogated by
Cuban Communist Party officials "who questioned her loyalty to the Cuban
government."

The lawsuit also argues that despite Elian's age, he does have constitutional
rights to be heard in court. Furthermore, the case says Elian's father is not a
U.S. citizen, and "he therefore has no recognizable rights under the United
States Constitution."

The INS position is that due to Elian's age, only his father can speak for him
and that nationality is not an issue.

"This (lawsuit) is not a well-reasoned argument," Perlmutter said. "These guys
are making a somewhat illogical leap from this concept of constitutional
protection."

Critics say the lawyers are using any argument to keep their case alive until
Congress reconvenes Monday. Sen. Connie Mack, R-Fla., reiterated his intention
Wednesday to introduce a bill next week granting citizenship to the boy.

Interviewed on CBS, Mack acknowledged Congress has only rarely granted this
honor - to the likes of Winston Churchill and Mother Teresa.

"Winston Churchill and this little boy have a lot in common. They both stood for
freedom," Mack said. "That's what this is all about."


LOAD-DATE: January 20, 2000

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: BLACK AND WHITE PHOTO, (2); Spencer Eig; Elian Gonzalez

                    Copyright 2000 Times Publishing Company


                              133 of 280 DOCUMENTS

                         St. Petersburg Times (Florida)

               January 23, 2000, Sunday, 0 South Pinellas Edition

After studying the issue, Davis decides Elian should go home

BYLINE: BILL ADAIR; MARY JACOBY; VANITA GOWDA

SECTION: NATIONAL; WASHINGTON JOURNAL; Pg. 4A

LENGTH: 792 words



Rep. Jim Davis doesn't shoot from the hip.

When he was asked a week ago about Elian Gonzalez, the 6-year-old Cuban boy at
the center of an international controversy, Davis said he wantedto research the
issue before saying anything.

Several other Florida politicians were quick to give their opinions, but Davis,
a member of the House International Relations Committee, held off so he could
read up on immigration law and quiz officials from the Immigration and
Naturalization Service.

On Friday, Davis rendered his opinion. He had some strong words opposing Sen.
Connie Mack's effort to grant the boy U.S. citizenship.

"Congress ought to stay out of it," said Davis. "I think the law rightly
presumes that a child ought to be reunited with his parent."

Davis said it was time to "put an end in the political tug of war over Elian"
and that "no one, including Elian, should receive special treatment."

Davis said, "It's very difficult for me to watch Elian on TV being paraded
around the way he is. We've lost sight of the most important issue - what is in
Elian's best interest."

Democrats make hay over chaplain

House Republican leaders once thought the controversy over their selection of a
Protestant over a Catholic as the House Chaplain would quickly die down. But
weeks later, it's still raging.

The president of the Catholic League, William Donohue, released a statement last
week denouncing the selection process as tainted. Meanwhile, internal GOP
polling shows the Democrats' charge of anti-Catholic bigotry is resonating with
Catholics in some key congressional districts, causing Republicans to panic
about holding their narrow majority next year.

The flap came about after a bipartisan selection committee of House members gave
its highest rating to the Rev. Timothy O'Brien, a Catholic priest. Speaker
Dennis Hastert, R-Ill., and Majority Leader Dick Armey, R-Texas - both
Protestants - instead chose the Rev. Charles Wright, a Presbyterian also
recommended by the panel.

Minority Leader Richard Gephardt, a Missouri Democrat and a Baptist, also had a
say in the final selection of the chaplain; he chose O'Brien but later allowed
his name to be used in the announcement of Wright's selection.

Republican leaders have said O'Brien lost because he bombed his interview. They
accuse Democrats of ginning up a political issue. But they don't know how to
solve their public relations problem; most feel it would only inflame passions
further if they dumped Wright now for a Catholic.

Thurmond quashes retirement rumors

The political rumor mill never stops grinding, and lately it has found Sen.
Strom Thurmond of South Carolina to be good grist.

To hear what the mongers have to say about the 97-year-old Republican, his
estranged wife, Nancy Thurmond, has recently been telling him it is finallytime
to retire and, in the same breath, has been suggesting that she is the logical
person to be appointed to fill out the remaining three years of his eighth term.

On Thursday, when he had finally had a surfeit of rumors, he struck back, taking
the unusual step of issuing a press release headlined "Resignation Rumor:"

"I would like to clarify for everyone that the fine people of South Carolina
elected me to serve as their U.S. senator for six full years and, God willing, I
have every intention of doing just that."

Nancy Thurmond also called the rumors "absolutely false."

Eager to wrap it up before it begins

During election years, the last place that members of Congress want to be is in
Washington. Traditionally, election-year sessions are shorter than non-election
years to allow members to go home and campaign in their districts. And this
year's session will follow tradition: after reconvening Monday, members can
expect to spend fewer days in the Capitol in 2000 than they did in 1999.

This year, the Senate is tentatively expected to be in session for 131 days, a
month less than the 162 days they were in session in 1999. If all goes according
to plan, the House will be in session for 122 days, 15 fewer than last year's
137 days. Both chambers have target adjournment dates of Oct. 6, which should
give members ample time to go home and campaign before the November elections.

Although Congress often stays in town beyond its target adjournment date - last
year it stayed until Nov. 29 despite an early October adjournment date - the
desire to campaign often spurs members to finish up on time. In the past 10
years, the longest that either chamber of Congress has stayed in session during
an election year was when the Senate worked 143 days in 1998.

- Compiled by Times Washington bureau staff writers Bill Adair, Mary Jacoby and
Vanita Gowda with information from the New York Times.


LOAD-DATE: January 24, 2000

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: BLACK AND WHITE PHOTO, (2); Rep. Jim Davis ; Sen. Strom Thurmond

TYPE: DIGEST

                    Copyright 2000 Times Publishing Company


                              134 of 280 DOCUMENTS

                         St. Petersburg Times (Florida)

              February 11, 2000, Friday, 0 South Pinellas Edition

Use of secret evidence against immigrants questioned

BYLINE: MARY JACOBY

SECTION: NATIONAL; Pg. 8A

LENGTH: 606 words

DATELINE: WASHINGTON



Members of Congress challenged federal law enforcement officials Thursday on the
government's use of secret evidence to detain a former University of South
Florida teacher and other immigrants as threats to national security.

At a hearing of the House Judiciary immigration subcommittee, Rep. Tom Campbell,
a chief sponsor of a bill to ban the use of secret evidence, said "the argument
that it will help combat terrorism" does not outweigh the fact that a person's
constitutional right to due process is being ignored.

"If we're willing to sacrifice our freedom to get security, we'll get neither,"
the California Republican said.

FBI General Counsel Larry Parkinson countered that some "information simply
cannot be made public or disclosed to the alien without compromising national
security."

But critics of the policy note that the government often loses when challenged
in court or in immigration appeals. "In most cases, the government's
allegations, once revealed, consisted of no more than guilt by association,"
David Cole, a professor at Georgetown University Law Center, said in a written
statement.

Cole represents Mazen Al-Najjar, the former University of South Florida teacher
who was arrested at his Tampa home in 1997 on a visa violation.

A Palestinian who moved to the United States from Gaza in 1981, Al-Najjar has
been in a Bradenton jail for nearly three years. The government says he has ties
to the Palestinian Islamic Jihad, a terrorist organization, but has declined to
share its classified evidence with Al-Najjar or his attorneys.

Most of those jailed on secret evidence have been Arab, prompting charges of
discrimination.

The FBI's Parkinson said the government has been restrained in its use of
classified evidence. He said only 12 pending immigration cases out of about
300,000 involve secret evidence. And of those 12, only five immigrants remain in
jail because of secret evidence.

But Cole told the committee, "If they (the detained immigrants) really posed a
threat to national security, would the INS let them out?"

Rep. Bob Goodlatte, R-Va., defended the government. Citing the small number of
people detained on secret evidence, he said, "It doesn't seem to me that the
government is abusing this process."

But Goodlatte's view appeared to be in the minority. Rep. Joe Scarborough,
R-Pensacola, said he disagreed that "the fact that only 12 out of 300,000 . . .
is not an abuse. I think it is an abuse."

Goodlatte then added, "I would agree with you that if you're going to hold
somebody for a (long) period of time, you have to charge them or let them go."

Rep. John Conyers, D-Mich., also said he found no comfort in the small numbers.
"What you're asking us to accept is (that because the use of secret evidence is
so rare), we have to make this great exception to a sacred constitutional
right," Conyers said. "Once you make this little exception . . . I can guarantee
you that somebody else has another reason just as serious (for why) you ought to
make just another exception."

Also testifying Thursday was Nahla A. Al-Arian, Al-Najjar's sister. She talked
about the hardship his absence has caused his three young daughters and likened
his detention on unknown evidence to "fighting ghosts."

"We can expect this to happen in a totalitarian regime but not here in America,"

 Al-Arian said.

Although the bill has strong bipartisan support and 62 co-sponsors, its fate is
uncertain. It has not yet been scheduled for further work in committee and risks
getting lost in the press of more important business during a compressed
election-year congressional schedule.


LOAD-DATE: February 11, 2000

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: BLACK AND WHITE PHOTO; Former USF professor Mazen Al-Najjar

                    Copyright 2000 Times Publishing Company


                              135 of 280 DOCUMENTS

                         St. Petersburg Times (Florida)

              February 25, 2000, Friday, 0 South Pinellas Edition

No bail for INS officer in spy

BYLINE: DAVID ADAMS

SECTION: NATIONAL; Pg. 3A

LENGTH: 412 words

DATELINE: MIAMI



A senior U.S. immigration officer accused of spying for Cuba was denied bail
Thursday by a federal judge.

Cuban-born Mariano Faget, 54, admitted passing secret information to a longtime
friend and business partner but denied he had spied for Cuba.

"My whole life has been pro-American and living the American dream," Faget said
at his bail hearing, standing in shackles and wearing brown prison garb.

U.S. Attorney Curtis Miner said the evidence against Faget was overwhelming,
adding that espionage was "one of the most serious offenses in the statutes of
this country."

The case has sparked an unprecedented diplomatic stand-off between Washington
and Havana.

The United States last week ordered a Cuban diplomat linked to Faget to leave
the country in seven days, accusing him of spying.

Cuba has refused to withdraw the envoy saying he had not violated any diplomatic
norms.

In court Thursday, defense attorney Ed O'Donnell tried to poke holes in the
government's case against Faget.

Under cross-examination, Pat Laflin, an agent with the FBI's Foreign
Counterintelligence Squad, admitted agents could not prove Faget had turned over
classified secrets to Cuba.

"I have no information that he personally conveyed information to the Cuban
government," Laflin said.

Agents also had no evidence that Faget had ever been paid by the Cuban
government for his alleged spy services.

Nor did the government have any evidence that Faget had ever expressed any
political sympathies for Cuba's communist government or Fidel Castro.

On the contrary, O'Donnell said Faget's father was the former head in the 1950s
of Cuba's Bureau of Anti-Communist Repression.

"Who was he spying for?" O'Donnell asked reporters after the hearing. "There's
no evidence he did anything to jeopardize the security of the nation that he
loves."

Dozens of family and friends queued outside the courtroom to testify to Faget's
good character, offering to put up almost $ 2-million in property and savings as
bail.

The normally brief bail hearing lasted almost three hours as witnesses described
Faget as a loving father and highly professional bureaucrat.

"He's a straight cookie," said Mary Kramer, a Miami immigration lawyer who took
the stand on Faget's behalf. "This is all a gross exaggeration."

His wife and relatives wept when Judge Barry Garber turned down their request
for bail, arguing that the charges were so serious that Faget was a danger to
the community.


LOAD-DATE: February 25, 2000

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: BLACK AND WHITE PHOTO; Mariano Faget

                    Copyright 2000 Times Publishing Company


                              136 of 280 DOCUMENTS

                         St. Petersburg Times (Florida)

               March 25, 2000, Saturday, 0 South Pinellas Edition

FBI: We mishandled 'spy' case

BYLINE: DAVID ADAMS

SECTION: NATIONAL; Pg. 5A

LENGTH: 466 words

DATELINE: MIAMI



The agency now says there is no evidence that Mariano Faget, a Miami immigration
officer arrested last month, passed secrets to Cuba.

Federal investigators admitted Friday they blundered when a senior Miami
immigration officer was arrested last month on charges of spying for Cuba.

The FBI now says it has no evidence Mariano Faget, a 54-year-old Cuban-American,
ever passed government secrets to Cuban agents.

Agents concede the case was badly handled, including the code name it was given
by the FBI - Operation False Blue - suggesting that Faget was not a loyal "true
blue" citizen.

"The title does not reflect the facts of the case at this time," Terry Nelson,
spokesman for the Miami FBI office, told the Associated Press.

However, agents stress Faget, a section supervisor at the Miami offices of the
Immigration and Naturalization Service, is still accused of serious crimes,
including revealing classified information to a friend and failing to report
unauthorizedmeetings with Cuban diplomats.

The FBI's acknowledgement that the public accusation against Faget may have been
inflated also raises questions about last month's expulsion of a Cuban diplomat,
Jose Imperatori, from Havana's mission in Washington.

At the time of his arrest, U.S. officials portrayed Imperatori as being a Cuban
agent and Faget's spy contact.

U.S. officials confirm that it was at the FBI's request that Imperatori's
removal was ordered by the State Department.

Cuba strongly protested the deportation of Imperatori, and the diplomat briefly
went on a hunger strike to protest his innocence.

"If now they say Faget was not a spy, why did they kick the diplomat out?" said
an indignant Luis Fernandez, a spokesman at the Cuban mission in Washington.

Faget has been in jail since his arrest Feb. 17.

Faget, who did not have an arrest record, was denied bail by a judge who
described him as a danger to the community.

In court and in interviews, Faget has admitted committing the security violation
but strongly denies that he was a spy.

The case against Faget stems from FBI surveillance of his contacts last year
with the two Cuban diplomats.

Faget admits meeting the Cubans but says it was not to discuss state secrets,
but rather to explore future business opportunities in Cuba.

Faget was arrested after he was caught in an FBI sting passing classified
information to a longtime friend and business associate.

He was trapped when FBI agents asked for his help in arranging paperwork for an
imminent defection of a top Cuban intelligence agent.

The defection was a ruse. The supposed defector was one of the Cuban diplomats
Faget had met.

Only 12 minutes after the agents left his office, Faget picked up his mobile
phone and called a friend in New York to give him the news.


LOAD-DATE: March 25, 2000

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: BLACK AND WHITE PHOTO; Mariano Faget

                    Copyright 2000 Times Publishing Company


                              137 of 280 DOCUMENTS

                         St. Petersburg Times (Florida)

              March 29, 2000, Wednesday, 0 South Pinellas Edition

U.S. starts countdown for Elian

BYLINE: DAVID ADAMS

SECTION: NATIONAL; Pg. 1A

LENGTH: 991 words

DATELINE: MIAMI



The boy's permission to stay in this country ends Thursday unless his family
cooperates with INS officials.

Another deadline expired Tuesday with both sides in the tortuous custody battle
over 6-year-old Elian Gonzalez refusing to budge.

But time may be running out for Elian's Miami relatives.

Frustrated immigration officials now say Elian's right to remain in the United
States will be terminated at 9 a.m. Thursday, unless the family abides by a key
government regulation.

The new ultimatum was imposed after the relatives ignored a Tuesday morning
deadline to agree in principle to surrender Elian, pending the outcome of a
legal appeal.

The Immigration and Naturalization Service says the written guarantee is a
routine requirement as a condition of Elian remaining in the custody of his
great-uncle, Lazaro Gonzalez.

Giving the family one last chance, the INS invited Gonzalez to show up at its
Miami offices with the signed agreement today.

"We hope that at that time he will agree to the very reasonable conditions that
we have set out as a condition of Elian's continued parole," said Karen
Kraushaar, an INS spokeswoman.

Elian has never formally been admitted into the United States. He was instead
issued a temporary "parole' to enter the country after being rescued at sea in
November and brought ashore for medical treatment.

Although the 11th U.S. Circuit Court of Appeals in Atlanta has agreed to hear
the family's case next month, under immigration law the government has sweeping
powers and is not required to wait for the courts to rule. The family's claim
for Elian's right to apply for political asylum was turned down in federal court
last week.

It was unclear late Tuesday what the family would do. Elian's 21-year-old
cousin, Marisleysis Gonzalez, who has shared her bedroom with the boy for the
last four months, said she was against signing the document.

"Honestly, I would not want my father (Lazaro Gonzalez) to sign that," she told
CNN. "To me that's betraying Elian."

Lawyers for the relatives emerged grim-faced from a meeting with INS officials
Tuesday.

"They (INS) are the ones who put this kid in Lazaro's home, and they just want
him to sign a blank statement, which is not the American way," said spokesman
Armando Gutierrez. "They said, "If you don't sign the paper, we remove Elian.' "

Lashing out at the White House, Gutierrez accused the Clinton administration of
"following orders" from Fidel Castro. For that he said Washington would have "to
answer to the community and to the world."

In a letter Monday evening, a senior INS officer put the government's position
in bald terms to the family's attorney, Spencer Eig. After almost 12 weeks the
government was still waiting for a "simple, clear statement that your client is
willing to produce the child when requested to do so," wrote INS Assistant
Commissioner Michael Pearson.

Without that assurance, Pearson added, "we have no choice butto move forward
with the termination of Elian's parole as of Thursday, March 30, 2000, at 9
a.m."

Pearson's letter was in reply to a strongly worded missive sent by Eig earlier
the same day to Attorney General Janet Reno. In it, Eig and the 10 other members
of the Miami legal team representing Elian's relatives, accused the Justice
Department of "heavy-handed tactics" demonstrating "a lack of sensitivity to
Elian, his family and this community."

Returning Elian to "the fascist regime in Cuba," the letter went on, would
effectively deny his right to appeal. "Once Elian is returned to Castro's
clutches he will not be permitted to leave if his appeal is successful."

The lawyers insist that Elian will suffer irreparable harm if he is returned to
his father because of the political conditions in Cuba.

A small group of some 30 Cuban exiles demonstrated Tuesday outside the Gonzalez
home in Miami's Little Havana district promising to resist any attempt to remove
the boy. Some exiles are threatening to form a human barri-cade around the house
to prevent federal agents from taking him away.

"If we have to throw ourselves in the street and block traffic we'll do it,"
said Raymundo Vasquez, a 61-year-old self-employed handyman who took the day off
work with his wife to show support for the Gonzalez family. "The United States
government is violating its own laws to please Castro."

The latest INS ultimatum also provoked a response in Congress where the Florida
delegation, backed by a core of legislators, has sought to defend Elian's right
to stay in the United States.

"I find the latest actions of the Justice Department to be outrageous," said
Sen. Connie Mack, R-Fla. He added it was unfair for U.S. officials to pressure
the family in the midst of the appeal process.

Rep. Bill McCollum, R-Longwood, also criticized the Justice Department, saying
Reno and the INS "have attempted to short-circuit the judicial process."

For a second day running Elian was featured on ABC's Good Morning America.
Tuesday's segment focused on the deep emotional attachment he has developed with
Marisleysis Gonzalez, the cousin who has taken on the role of surrogate mother.

Although ABC anchor Diane Sawyer said Elian told her that he didn't want to go
back to Cuba, the network decided not to air his comments because of "the
inflamed climate" around the case.

A lawyer for Elian's father criticized ABC for failing to seek parental consent
before interviewing the boy. Elian's father is now being represented by Gregory
Craig, one of the lawyers hired by President Clinton during the Monica Lewinsky
affair.

Despite the emotional bonds Elian may have developed in Miami, his relatives
there "do not speak for this boy legally or morally," Craig told ABC.

He added that the family has been "completely unresponsive" to his attempts to
discuss a "voluntary transfer" of Elian back to his father's care.

- Staff writer Bill Adair contributed to this report.


LOAD-DATE: March 29, 2000

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: COLOR PHOTO, Associated Press, (2); Elian Gonzalez plays in the back
yard of his relatives' Miami home on Tuesday.; Lyanne Morin helps hold a Cuban
flag as Damien Duncan, 3, runs under it.

                    Copyright 2000 Times Publishing Company


                              138 of 280 DOCUMENTS

                         St. Petersburg Times (Florida)

                March 31, 2000, Friday, 0 South Pinellas Edition

Dad awaits visa to come for Elian

BYLINE: DAVID ADAMS; WES ALLISON

SECTION: NATIONAL; Pg. 1A

LENGTH: 1323 words

DATELINE: MIAMI



The Cuban government, however, says the 30 other members of its group must be
allowed into the U.S. too.

Cuban leader Fidel Castro calls it "the perfect formula."

Bring Elian Gonzalez's father to the United States, along with a bunch of his
former pupils and teachers - even his old school desk.

Anti-Castro exiles in Miami say Cuba's 73-year-old president is bluffing. But a
statement Thursday night from the Cuban government says each person in the
31-member entourage is "indispensable for the reinsertion of the child in his
family and social environment."

With another deadline postponed in the custody dispute over Elian, attention
shifted Thursday to Cuba, where Castro said Juan Miguel Gonzalez was ready to
travel to the United States to claim his son.

Federal officials failed for a second day to reach an agreement with Elian's
Miami relatives over custody terms. Talks are scheduled to resume Monday, and
the Immigration and Naturalization Service agreed to postpone any final decision
until Tuesday.

In another development, Vice President Al Gore broke with the Clinton
administration and backed legislation in Congress that would grant permanent
resident status to Elian. The Smith-Graham bill would give permanent residency
to Elian, his father, stepmother and their child, as well as Elian's two
grandmothers and one grandfather. It would change Elian's immigration status so
his fate could be determined by a family court in Miami-Dade County. It would
allow the family to live in the United States, but it would also allow them to
return to Cuba if they wanted.

Gore's rival, Republican George W. Bush, said he supports similar legislation.
The failure so far of the Miami negotiations leaves Washington with few
alternatives.

The Miami relatives have defied the Justice Department and a federal judge by
refusing to relinquish custody of the boy. The family argues Elian would suffer
"irreparable harm" if he is forced to grow up under communist rule.

Despite a political tongue-lashing by politicians from Miami to Washington,
Attorney General Janet Reno held her ground Thursday.

"This case has been heartbreaking for everybody involved, but we believe the law
is clear," she told reporters. "The father must speak for the little boy because
the sacred bond between parent and child must be recognized and honored, and
Elian should be reunited with his father."

Although experts still considered the father's visit to be a long shot, U.S.
officials appeared to be giving serious consideration to Castro's plan.

"We believe his presence in the United States can be helpful to a successful
resolution of the case," said State Department spokesman James Foley.

The father's high-powered Washington lawyer, Gregory Craig, warned the plan
could collapse if the Clinton administration failed to provide assurances that
custody would be taken away from Elian's Miami relatives.

"I'm not sure the government is in any position to do that," said Wayne Smith, a
Cuba expert at the Washington-based Center for International Policy. "We may be
right back where we started."

Even so, Craig announced Thursday he was going ahead with formal visa
applications for Juan Miguel Gonzalez and other family members.

"When we have received assurances that Juan Miguel will be able to take custody
of his son, we will also be seeking permission for a support group of Elian's
classmates, teachers and doctors to come to the United States to help smooth the
transition," Craig said.

Cuban exiles in Miami said they would welcome Elian's father if he came,
although most are highly skeptical that he will ever make the trip.

Jorge Mas Santos, head of the powerful Cuban American National Foundation, said
he doubted Castro would risk letting the family leave the island for fear they
would defect:

"Castro will not under any circumstances let the family come here."

Miami-Dade County's Cuban-American mayor, Alex Penelas, dismissed the plan as a
Castro ploy, adding that Elian's father should have come immediately after the
boy's dramatic sea rescue last November.

Why Elian's father has delayed coming to claim his son for so long is a question
asked by many exiles. Gonzalez has not been seen in Havana for several days and
has made no public comment about the trip. But Cuban officials say the decision
was based on the strong belief that the court case was now all but won.

The head of the Cuban diplomatic mission in Washington, Fernando Remirez,
visited the State Department on Thursday to deliver a copy of Castro's speech
Wednesday night outlining the proposal.

In it Castro lays out a plan to bring the nucleus of Elian's Cuban family to
Washington. Juan Miguel Gonzalez would be accompanied by his new wife and
Elian's 6-month-old half brother.

Calling it the "perfect formula" for Elian's "readaptation" to his old life in
Cuba, Castro said the team was ready to leave immediately for Washington.

To re-create Elian's familiar surroundings, Castro also suggested sending 12 of
Elian's former classmates from his hometown of Cardenas, as well as three
teachers, three psychologists, two child psychiatrists, four doctors and two
nurses.

If need be, his empty school desk could also be shipped over.

"We are offering to carry Cardenas to Washington, symbolically that is," Castro
said. "If Mohammed won't come to the mountain, the mountain will go to
Mohammed."

Castro said the group would be housed at the official Washington residence of
Remirez, Cuba's senior diplomat, and a minischool and minihospital would be
created for Elian while he awaited a final appeals court ruling.

"The residence would be their school and living quarters," he said. "These would
be perfectly ideal conditions that the child does not have where he is now
(Miami), surrounded by rogues, noise, cameras and disgraceful situations."

If the appeals dragged on longer than a month, the Cuban leader suggested the
children could take advantage of Washington's tourist sites.

Experts say many hurdles need to be overcome. The U.S. government has always
said it would grant an entry visa to Elian's father, but it was unclear if
Washington would approve the whole group.

But the presence of Elian's father in the United States potentially creates an
option previously not available to INS officials. Elian's Miami relatives have
repeatedly stated that they would be prepared to hand the boy over directly only
to his father.

In an interview with one Miami TV station, Elian's 22-year-old cousin,
Marisleysis Gonzalez, who shares her bedroom with the boy and has become his
surrogate mother over the last four months, said she would welcome the father in
her home. She even offered to give up her room and sleep on the couch if he
wished to stay with them.

News of the father's possible visit spread through Miami's Little Havana
district. Outside the home of Elian's relatives, protesters scoffed at the plan
and at Washington for letting Castro play the ringmaster.

"I don't believe in violence in any way, and but I will do whatever it takes to
protect Elian," said Otto Milian, a schoolteacher near Havana before he fled to
Miami in 1962. "If you could only see him. He's an angel. An angel."

About 5:30 p.m. as dozens of supporters chanted "Liberty" and "Elian will not
go," Elian finally scampered out the front door of his uncle's house and tore
about the front yard, grabbing at the corner of the large American flag flapping
in the wind by the front walk.

He also met briefly with Miami Mayor Joe Corollo, who told Elian he was proud of
him and gave him an official city of Miami lapel pin.

Corollo spoke to Elian's uncles and said the family was glad that negotiations
will continue, but the strain on them - and the city - is showing.

"They are under tremendous pressure. It's been a roller-coaster," he said.

- Information from the Associated Press was used in this report.

S+:


LOAD-DATE: March 31, 2000

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: COLOR PHOTO, Agence France-Presse; COLOR PHOTO, JOHN PENDYGRAFT; BLACK
AND WHITE PHOTO, Associated Press; BLACK AND WHITE PHOTO; Juan Miguel Gonzalez;
Elian and his great-uncle Lazaro Gonzalez chat in their front yard on Thursday
evening.; Hanser Muniz Pedroso, Elian Gonzalez's best friend, sits Thursday next
to Elian's empty chair, which reads, "This chair is untouchable," in his
first-grade classroom in Cardenas, Cuba.; Fidel Castro

                    Copyright 2000 Times Publishing Company


                              139 of 280 DOCUMENTS

                         St. Petersburg Times (Florida)

                 April 04, 2000, Tuesday, 3 Early Tampa Edition

Elian may be turned over to dad

BYLINE: DAVID ADAMS

SECTION: NATIONAL; Pg. 3A

LENGTH: 808 words

DATELINE: MIAMI



After almost 20 hours of negotiations over four days, immigration officials
decided to suspend threats to send Elian Gonzalez back to Cuba before appeals
are exhausted in the 4-month-old custody dispute.

Federal officials said discussion now focused on turning the 6-year-old over to
his father, Juan Miguel Gonzalez - if and when he arrives in the United States.

In a statement late Monday, the Immigration and Naturalization Service said this
morning's deadline has been "superseded by the expected arrival" of his father.

The father's presence, however, remains a big if.

Although no deal was reached Monday, the INS said it was "encouraged" by
progress in the talks. Both sides are due to meet again today.

"Once Mr. Gonzalez arrives, the (INS) will begin transferring parole care from
Lazaro Gonzalez (Elian's great uncle in Miami) to the boy's father," the INS
said in a statement late Monday.

"The Miami relatives have long said that they wanted the father to come here.
The father should be encouraged and supported in his desire to be here with his
son," the statement said.

The boy's Miami relatives have said they will abide by any government ruling,
insisting only that the transition take Elian's psychological well-being into
account.

But, according to Cuban exile radio stations in Miami, Elian's relatives will
only agree to give up the boy if he remains in Miami, pending legal appeals.
They also insist that they be granted visitation rights to see the boy.

Both of these conditions are unlikely to be acceptable to Elian's father, who
has rejected coming to Miami on several occasions.

The new talks appeared to be a victory for Elian's Miami relatives.

All last week immigration officials had threatened to revoke Elian's right to
remain in the U.S., unless the relatives signed an agreement to hand over the
boy, pending the outcome of appeals. The new plan appears to let the relatives
off the hook.

The family is hoping the 11th U.S. Circuit Court of Appeals in Atlanta will
overturn a federal judge's ruling last month that upheld an immigration order to
return the boy to his father in Cuba.

The new talks seemed cleverly designed to call Havana's bluff over its readiness
to allow Elian's father to travel to the U.S. to collect his son. Cuban exiles
in Miami have long argued that Fidel Castro would never permit Juan Miguel
Gonzalez to make the trip, fearing a huge propaganda defeat if he decided not to
return.

Cuba has made it extremely clear that there are only two scenarios it will
accept for ending the custody dispute - both non-negotiable. One solution
involves a 28-member delegation of Elian's family, schoolfriends and teachers
taking care of Elian in Washington during the appeals process.

Alternatively, Elian's father has offered to travel unaccompanied to the U.S.
right away, but only if he is allowed to return home directly with his son.

"If it's a case of giving me the boy to return immediately to Cuba, I'm willing
to leave tomorrow, absolutely alone, to wherever I have to in the United States,
travel from the airport to the place where the boy is, collect him, return to
the airport and back to Cuba," Juan Miguel Gonzalez said in a statement read
Sunday by Castro.

"I do not want to talk to any kidnapper, nor accept any condition, or take part
in any show or publicity over the handover of Elian," added the statement. "Only
the U.S. government can decide if they prefer this option."

Although the U.S. State Department issued visas Monday night to four members of
Elian's family in Cuba, including his father, no travel plans have been
announced. Visas were also issued for Elian's schoolteacher and a psychiatrist.

Cuba is seeking visas for 22 other Gonzalez family members and schoolfriends of
Elian, as well as National Assembly President Ricardo Alarcon, a trusted adviser
to Castro. Those will be treated on a case-by-case basis, according the State
Department.

Public sentiment across the country continues to lean heavily toward sending
Elian back to his father, according to a poll by ABC News and the Washington
Post. The poll found that 59 percent of Americans said the boy should be
returned while 33 percent said he should stay.

Meanwhile Elian spent part of Monday playing with a pet rabbit in the back yard
of his great-uncle's Little Havana home, while in front, protesters practiced
forming a human chain.

Many protesters stomped their feet as Ramon Saul Sanchez, leader of the
Miami-based anti-Castro group Democracy Movement, used a bullhorn to call for
Cuban-Americans to come to the home to protect Elian.

"They would have to go over the bodies of all of us Cubans who are here," said
Maria Gonzalez, 70, who is not related to the boy. "They would have to kill us
all."

- Information from Times wires was used in this report.


LOAD-DATE: April 4, 2000

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: BLACK AND WHITE PHOTO, Associated Press; Lazaro Gonzalez, in striped
shirt, looks over a large mural of his great-nephew, Elian Gonzalez. The
painting was brought to the Gonzalez home in Miami on Monday evening.

                    Copyright 2000 Times Publishing Company


                              140 of 280 DOCUMENTS

                         St. Petersburg Times (Florida)

               April 04, 2000, Tuesday, 0 South Pinellas Edition

Elian may be turned over to dad

BYLINE: DAVID ADAMS

SECTION: NATIONAL; Pg. 3A

LENGTH: 810 words

DATELINE: MIAMI



After almost 20 hours of negotiations over four days, immigration officials
decided to suspend threats to send Elian Gonzalez back to Cuba before appeals
are exhausted in the 4-month-old custody dispute.

Federal officials said discussion now focused on turning the 6-year-old over to
his father, Juan Miguel Gonzalez, if and when he arrives in the United States.

In a statement late Monday, the Immigration and Naturalization Service said this
morning's deadline has been "superseded by the expected arrival" of the father.

The father's presence, however, remains a big if.

Although the U.S. State Department issued visas Monday night to four members of
Elian's family in Cuba, including his father, no travel plans have been
announced. Visas were also issued for Elian's schoolteacher and a psychiatrist.

Cuba is seeking visas for 22 other Gonzalez family members and schoolfriends of
Elian, as well as National Assembly President Ricardo Alarcon, a trusted adviser
to Cuban President Fidel Castro. Those will be treated on a case-by-case basis,
according the State Department.

Although no deal was reached Monday, the INS said it was "encouraged" by
progress in the talks. Both sides are due to meet again today.

"Once Mr. Gonzalez arrives, the (INS) will begin transferring parole care from
Lazaro Gonzalez (Elian's great uncle in Miami) to the boy's father," the INS
said in a statement late Monday.

"The Miami relatives have long said that they wanted the father to come here.
The father should be encouraged and supported in his desire to be here with his
son," the statement said.

The boy's Miami relatives have said they will abide by any government ruling,
insisting only that the transition take Elian's psychological well-being into
account.

But, according to Cuban exile radio stations in Miami, Elian's relatives will
only agree to give up the boy if he remains in Miami, pending legal appeals.
They also insist that they be granted visitation rights to see the boy.

Both of these conditions are unlikely to be acceptable to Elian's father, who
has rejected coming to Miami on several occasions.

The new talks appeared to be a victory for Elian's Miami relatives.

All last week immigration officials had threatened to revoke Elian's right to
remain in the U.S., unless the relatives signed an agreement to hand over the
boy, pending the outcome of appeals. The new plan appears to let the relatives
off the hook.

The family is hoping the 11th U.S. Circuit Court of Appeals in Atlanta will
overturn a federal judge's ruling last month that upheld an immigration order to
return the boy to his father in Cuba.

The new talks seemed cleverly designed to call Havana's bluff over its readiness
to allow Elian's father to travel to the U.S. to collect his son. Cuban exiles
in Miami have long argued that Castro would never permit Juan Miguel Gonzalez to
make the trip, fearing a huge propaganda defeat if he decided not to return.

Cuba has made it extremely clear that there are only two scenarios it will
accept for ending the custody dispute - both non-negotiable. One solution
involves a 28-member delegation of Elian's family, schoolfriends and teachers
taking care of Elian in Washington during the appeals process.

Alternatively, Elian's father has offered to travel unaccompanied to the U.S.
right away, but only if he is allowed to return home directly with his son.

"If it's a case of giving me the boy to return immediately to Cuba, I'm willing
to leave tomorrow, absolutely alone, to wherever I have to in the United States,
travel from the airport to the place where the boy is, collect him, return to
the airport and back to Cuba," Juan Miguel Gonzalez said in a statement read
Sunday by Castro.

"I do not want to talk to any kidnapper, nor accept any condition, or take part
in any show or publicity over the handover of Elian," added the statement. "Only
the U.S. government can decide if they prefer this option."

Public sentiment across the country continues to lean heavily toward sending
Elian back to his father, according to a poll by ABC News and the Washington
Post. The poll found that 59 percent of Americans said the boy should be
returned while 33 percent said he should stay.

Meanwhile Elian spent part of Monday playing with a pet rabbit in the back yard
of his great-uncle's Little Havana home, while in front, protesters practiced
forming a human chain.

Many protesters stomped their feet as Ramon Saul Sanchez, leader of the
Miami-based anti-Castro group Democracy Movement, used a bullhorn to call for
Cuban-Americans to come to the home to protect Elian.

"They would have to go over the bodies of all of us Cubans who are here," said
Maria Gonzalez, 70, who is not related to the boy. "They would have to kill us
all."

- Information from Times wires was used in this report.


LOAD-DATE: April 4, 2000

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: BLACK AND WHITE PHOTO, Associated Press; Lazaro Gonzalez, in striped
shirt, looks over a large mural of his great-nephew, Elian Gonzalez. The
painting was brought to the Gonzalez home in Miami on Monday evening.

                    Copyright 2000 Times Publishing Company


                              141 of 280 DOCUMENTS

                         St. Petersburg Times (Florida)

               April 06, 2000, Thursday, 0 South Pinellas Edition

After a family reunion, questions about asylum

BYLINE: BILL ADAIR

SECTION: NATIONAL; Pg. 15A

LENGTH: 921 words

DATELINE: WASHINGTON



Once Juan Miguel Gonzalez arrives in the United States will he try to make his
visit a permanent one?

If Elian Gonzalez's father wants to seek asylum during his visit to the United
States, all he will have to do is speak up.

Juan Miguel Gonzalez could tell an airport immigration officer, he could declare
his intentions at a news conference, or, if he is under tight security, he could
send the message through a friend or relative.

He need only alert the Immigration and Naturalization Service and then fill out
Form I-589, "Application for Asylum and Withholding Removal," an 11-page
questionnaire that asks people to explain why they need the special status.

"Do you fear being subjected to torture in your home country?" the form asks.
"Have you or any member of your family ever been mistreated or threatened by the
authorities of your home country?"

It appears Gonzalez will come to Washington this morning. The State Department
approved visas for Gonzalez, his wife and their infant son. Cuban authorities
have asked that 22 other people be allowed on the trip.

Gonzalez has not shown any desire to seek asylum and has opposed a bill in
Congress that would grant him and his family permanent residence in the United
States. In a letter to congressional leaders last week, he called the proposal
"cruel and unfair."

But many members of Congress and many Cuban exiles in Miami think Gonzalez has
not been free to speak in Cuba. They hope he will seek asylum during his visit.

Three House members - Florida Republicans Lincoln Diaz-Balart and Ileana
Ros-Lehtinen and Robert Menendez, D-N.J. - have invited him to a private lunch
to discuss his options, including asylum.

"As long as he comes with his wife and child, we can really get to his true
intentions," Menendez said. "I think we'd hear Juan Gonzalez say that he wants
Elian and wants to stay here in the United States."

Asylum is granted for people unable or unwilling to return to their home country
because of fear of persecution. About 41,000 people applied for it last year.
The government approved about 13,000, or 38 percent, of those applications.
Asylum is automatically extended to dependents, so Elian would receive the same
status as his father.

Asylum is often a first step toward U.S. citizenship. Someone granted asylum is
eligible for permanent residency after one year and citizenship after five
years.

Gonzalez is coming to the United States to be reunited with Elian, who was found
clinging to an inner tube off the coast of South Florida on Thanksgiving Day.
Elian's mother - Gonzalez's ex-wife - died in the effort to come to the United
States.

The final arrangements for Gonzalez's visit with his son must be worked out. But
immigration lawyers and members of Congress said that it is likely that
Gonzalez, a 31-year-old hotel security guard, will be closely watched by the
Cuban government, a factor that could make it harder for him to speak up during
his visit.

"It takes an enormous amount of courage in those circumstances to blurt out "I
want political asylum' because those (guards) are breathing down your neck,"
said Menendez.

However, there should be several moments during the trip when Gonzalez would
have an opportunity to say he wants asylum.

The first chance would be at his arrival at a U.S. airport, where INS employees
will review his passport and visa. Other opportunities would be news conferences
and interviews where Gonzalez speaks - Elian's grandmothers had several during
their visit in January - and at the possible reunion with Elian, which might be
attended by immigration officials.

"The INS is not out there soliciting asylum applications," said spokesman Bill
Strassberger.

"But anyone who wishes to seek asylum could make that known to anyone - local
law enforcement or friends - and get that to us. If we receive information that
someone wishes to seek asylum, we'll make sure that they have that opportunity
before they leave."

When Elian's father makes it to the United States, Miami Cubans pray he will
defect. Many remain skeptical that Castro will ever give him that chance,
however.

"Why would Fidel do it?" said Michael Maulini, a lawyer at the office of Cuban
American sports agent, Joe Cubas, who has helped 27 baseball players defect from
Cuba in recent years. "If he defects what trust does he have with the people."

And defecting is never an easy decision, said the 26-year-old Maulini.

"It's one of the toughest decisions a human being can make. It's very difficult
because you are leaving everything behind . . . your whole life. When you get
here you have to start all over again," he said.

If Gonzalez and his family seek asylum, they would be allowed to remain in the
United States until their application was approved or denied.

David Ross, a Los Angeles immigration lawyer, said the U.S. government would
provide "immediate protection" to Gonzalez if he announced he wanted asylum,
probably separating him from other Cubans in his group.

Ross said it is virtually a sure thing that Gonzalez would be approved.

"I think he'd have a very compelling case,"  he said.

Menendez said it is crucial that Gonzalez be allowed to speak apart from the
Cuban authorities.

"I hope he will be free to make his true intentions known.

"It's my belief that if he's truly given the opportunity, he would very likely
seek political asylum."

- Staff writer David Adams contributed to this report in which information from
the Associated Press was used.


LOAD-DATE: April 6, 2000

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                    Copyright 2000 Times Publishing Company


                              142 of 280 DOCUMENTS

                         St. Petersburg Times (Florida)

                April 16, 2000, Sunday, 0 South Pinellas Edition

Nation's immigration system open to fraud, auditor warns

BYLINE: JIM FOX

SECTION: NATIONAL; THE CANADA REPORT; Pg. 14A

LENGTH: 753 words



The Canadian government's watchdog is warning that urgent action is needed to
eliminate potential fraud in the immigration system.

Auditor General Denis Desautels said in his annual report on government
operations that immigration officers get little training in how to conduct
background checks for criminal or terrorist activity. The report also says not
enough is done to guard against theft or mishandling of visa forms and
computerized files.

Officials stationed abroad are overworked and undertrained, the report says,
contributing to delays of up to three years in processing applications for
programs aimed at attracting skilled workers, entrepreneurs and investors.

Desautels expressed "serious concerns" about Royal Canadian Mounted Police
computer backlogs and delays in laboratory tests that could compromise law
enforcement and endanger the public.

The government is also cheating itself out of taxes by mishandling $ 2-billion a
year in scientific research credits for private industry, he said, pointing out
that tax writeoffs sometimes exceed the amount justified by documentation.

Via Rail getting more cash

The government's decision to give Via Rail $ 401.9-million for new, faster
trains will cut an hour off the four-hour Toronto-Montreal express train run.

The subsidy over the next five years will "significantly renew" the country's
passenger rail service, Transport Minister David Collenette said.

The money will be used to buy new rail cars, modernize signal systems, repair
the heavily used Windsor(Detroit)-Toronto-Montreal-Quebec City line, upgrade
stations and improve waste management.

The new spending boosts Via's funding by nearly 50 percent after years of
cutbacks to the government-run railway that serves 3.8-million passengers and
450 communities.

In brief

 A Montreal couple will appeal a conviction and $ 500 fine for violating
Quebec's language law. Judge Paul-Marcel Bellavance of Quebec Superior Court
ruled that the sign on Wally Hoffman and Gwen Simpson's antiques store, which
has English and French lettering that's the same size, is illegal because French
isn't dominant.

 Ottawa writer and community activist Margaret Kopala is the latest candidate to
lead the new right-wing Canadian Alliance party. Kopala, 54, is a former
Conservative candidate and will be up against Reform leader Preston Manning,
former Alberta treasurer Stockwell Day, Alliance member of Parliament Keith
Martin and Toronto lawyer Joe Peschisolido for the job.

 A 10-day strike by municipal workers in Toronto ended Monday with a tentative
agreement. The strike affected civic operations and services as janitors, health
inspectors and day care operators left their jobs. In Vancouver, a tentative
agreement was reached with the B.C. Film Projectionists' Union ending a 16-month
lockout at 29 Famous Players and Cineplex Odeon theaters.

Facts and figures

Canadian stock markets plunged Friday over fears of higher interest rates. The
Toronto Stock Exchange 300 Index closed down 492 points at 8,473. The Canadian
Venture Exchange index was off 325 points at 3,397.

The Canadian dollar plunged to 67.72 U.S. cents while the U.S. greenback
returned $ 1.4766 Canadian.

The Bank of Canada's key interest rate is unchanged at 5.5 percent and the prime
lending rate is 7 percent.

Lotto 6-49: (Wednesday) 10, 29, 34, 42, 46 and 47; bonus 40. (April 8) 5, 10,
24, 27, 30 and 45; bonus 2.

Regional briefs

 With what little snow there was over the winter now melted, Alberta's forest
fire season has started early. Crews have battled 46 wildfires, compared with 18
at the same time last year. Nearly 3,000 acres of timber have been scorched.
Most of the fires on the dry terrain have been blamed on human carelessness.

 Manitoba farmers are still waiting for government compensation for spring
flooding last year that made seeding on 1.1-million acres impossible. About 200
farmers gathered at the Manitoba legislature Wednesday to demand action. The
provincial and federal government haven't been able to agree on an appropriate
aid package.

 It's a political pie in the face for the Quebec government. Opposition
politicians learned the government gave $ 112,400 to a group of comic activists,
including pie-throwers who have targeted prominent politicians. The grants
supported Symfolium - a cultural celebration of "folly" including members of a
Montreal group called the pie-throwers, or Les entarteurs, some of whom have
been arrested for their pie pranks.


LOAD-DATE: April 17, 2000

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                    Copyright 2000 Times Publishing Company


                              143 of 280 DOCUMENTS

                         St. Petersburg Times (Florida)

                April 17, 2000, Monday, 0 South Pinellas Edition

Give Haitians more time

SECTION: EDITORIAL; EDITORIALS; Pg. 10A

LENGTH: 538 words



Congress should pass a bill that would extend the amnesty deadline for Haitian
refugees to apply for U.S. residency. Deporting the immigrants, many of whom
were not aware of the March 31 deadline, would tear families apart.

To help guarantee that our immigration rules are uniformly applied, regardless
of color or national origin, Congress passed the Haitian Refugee Immigration
Fairness Act of 1998. The law, an amnesty program for Haitians who fled
persecution in their homeland, was designed to expedite the process for making
these immigrants legal U.S. residents. Instead, it could result in the wrongful
deportation of thousands of Haitians unless Congress intervenes and changes the
law.

The current legislation gave Haitian residents until March 31 to file residency
and work permit applications with the federal government. A few thousand
Haitians did so, but the vast majority of the 50,000 people who are eligible to
apply for amnesty did not, mostly through no fault of their own.

From the start, the U.S. Immigration and Naturalization Service did a poor job
of publicizing the amnesty program. Making matters worse, it took federal
officials nearly eight months to draft rules outlining the application process.
Even now, final rules have not been issued. Unreasonably high filing fees also
have deterred many Haitians from applying.

U.S. Sen. Bob Graham of Florida has introduced legislation that would extend the
application deadline by one year, delaying the removal of these refugees and
providing more time for the government to publicize the program. It is a measure
Congress should put on the fast track and President Clinton should sign.

Thousands of Haitians fled to this country in 1991 to escape the violence that
accompanied a coup led by Gen. Raoul Cedras, who installed a brutal military
dictatorship. The threat to those refugees diminished after American-led
military intervention returned Jean-Bertrand Aristide, at the time Haiti's
president in exile, to office. However, many of those refugees still live in the
United States.

For some, deportation means taking them from U.S.-born spouses and children,
from jobs and from the communities in which they have lived for years.
Communities in South Florida, which is home to one of the nation's highest
concentrations of Haitian families, could literally be torn apart if the
government begins rounding up and deporting refugees.

President Clinton noted back in 1998 that the amnesty law would "help support a
stable and democratic Haiti, which, in turn, is the best safeguard against a
renewed flow of Haitian immigrants to the United States." Indeed, sending back
tens of thousands of Haitian residents could have a devastating effect on that
country's economy, which already is on the brink of collapse.

But there is a more important symbolic reason for extending the application
deadline for another year. Previous amnesty programs limited eligibility to
Central American and Cuban immigrants, leaving an impression that the United
States welcomes light-skinned immigrants more readily than dark-skinned ones.
Graham's bill would help dispel that perception and give Haitians a fair chance
to become legal U.S. residents.


LOAD-DATE: April 18, 2000

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: BLACK AND WHITE PHOTO; U.S. Sen. Bob Graham of Florida

TYPE: EDITORIAL

                    Copyright 2000 Times Publishing Company


                              144 of 280 DOCUMENTS

                         St. Petersburg Times (Florida)

              April 26, 2000, Wednesday, 0 South Pinellas Edition

We see no evidence, but still he waits

BYLINE: BILL MAXWELL

SECTION: EDITORIAL; COLUMNS; Pg. 15A

LENGTH: 747 words



"Orwellian." "Kafkaesque." Both terms describe a nightmarish immigration case
being litigated in Florida. Imagine being in your home eating breakfast with
your family, when U.S. Immigration and Naturalization Service authorities charge
in, handcuff you in front of your wife and children and drag you off to an
unspecified location - all without charging you with a crime.

Such an arrest occurred in Tampa on May 19, 1997. The victim, Palestinian
refugee Mazen Al-Najjar, then a 40-year-old professor at the University of South
Florida in Tampa, has been in an INS holding facility since he was grabbed.
Although he has not been charged with a crime, Al-Najjar has been denied bail
based on "secret evidence" that supposedly connects him with Palestine Islamic
Jihad, a notorious terrorist organization in the Middle East.

His troubles began in 1995 after newspaper articles suggested that the World and
Islam Studies Enterprise (WISE), a USF think tank that he managed, was a
fundraising front for terrorists. Matters worsened after the head of Islamic
Jihad was shot to death in the Mideast. Two days later, another Tampa Muslim,
Ramadan Shallah, who had been an instructor at USF and a member of WISE, assumed
leadership of Islamic Jihad.

For area anti-Muslim forces, Shallah's new post confirmed suspicions that WISE
was dangerous and prompted the university to officially investigate the group.
Authorities had expected to uncover an active terrorist cell with a money trail
leading from Tampa to Gaza City and the West Bank. But investigators found no
such evidence.

Nevertheless, Al-Najjar remains in jail to this day, not formally charged. He is
being held under a provision of the Anti-terrorism and Effective Death Penalty
Act of 1996, which Congress enacted in response to the World Trade Center and
Oklahoma City bombings.

Implemented to protect American citizens, the measure has had the unintended
consequence of undermining some of the nation's most cherished constitutional
protections. The merits of Al-Najjar's case aside, the anti-terrorism law lets
the government use informant testimony or other forms of secret evidence to
imprison and deport legal immigrants suspected of terrorism without letting the
suspects cross-examine their excusers.

The U.S. Supreme Court has ruled that aliens have the same rights of due process
that thieves, drug traffickers and murderers enjoy. If the INS has incriminating
evidence against Al-Najjar, he has a constitutional right to see it.

The Sixth Amendment states: "In all criminal prosecutions, the accused shall
enjoy the right to a speedy and public trial, by an impartial jury of the state
and district wherein the crime shall have been committed, which district shall
have been previously ascertained by law, and to be informed of the nature and
the cause of the accusation; to be confronted with the witnesses against him; to
have compulsory process for obtaining witnesses in his favor, and to have the
assistance of counsel for his defense."

Obviously, U.S. citizens should expect the government to take all reasonable
care to protect them from terrorism, both foreign and domestic. But that same
government also has a duty to protect the constitutional rights of everyone -
even those in the minority whose ideas and religions the majority rejects.

Only last week was Al-Najjar granted an appearance in a Miami federal court to
ask for his freedom on constitutional grounds. His attorneys argued that their
client's right to due process was violated. Judge Joan A. Lenard said she would
decide upon further review.

To add insult to injury, witnesses say, Al-Najjar's wife, children and
supporters were treated harshly by federal agents and the judge. When, for
example, the 11-year-old daughter took her seat and lowered her face into her
hands, an officer yelled, "Put your head up."

Al-Najjar was forced to wear the same unwashed clothes he wore upon arrest three
years ago. He could speak to his attorneys for only a few minutes - through a
blurred glass partition. He was awakened at 1 a.m. in Bradenton for a hearing
scheduled for 4 p.m. in Miami, a flight that took one hour.

In court, he appeared dirty and tired. In other words, federal authorities made
the man look every bit the terrorist they are painting him to be. If evidence
indicates that Al-Najjar has terrorist connections, he should be punished
appropriately. If no such evidence exists, however, he should be released.


LOAD-DATE: April 26, 2000

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: BLACK AND WHITE PHOTO; Mazen Al-Najjar

TYPE: COLUMN

                    Copyright 2000 Times Publishing Company


                              145 of 280 DOCUMENTS

                         St. Petersburg Times (Florida)

               June 01, 2000, Thursday, 0 South Pinellas Edition

Release of secret evidence ordered

BYLINE: SUSAN ASCHOFF

SECTION: NATIONAL; Pg. 1A

LENGTH: 661 words



The ruling is called the biggest breakthrough in immigration officials' case
against a Tampa resident who taught at USF.

A federal judge ruled Wednesday that Tampa resident Mazen Al-Najjar's
constitutional rights were violated when the government jailed him as an
associate of terrorists without letting him defend himself.

In the most significant legal breakthrough for the former University of South
Florida teacher since his arrest three years ago, the judge said immigration
officials should make public their secret evidence against Al-Najjar, so he can
respond, if they want to keep him in jail.

U.S. District Judge Joan A. Lenard ordered the Immigration and Naturalization
Service to have a new hearing to decide if Al-Najjar should get bail and be
allowed to rejoin his family while he appeals a deportation order.

Lenard said the one-sentence summary of the secret evidence given to Al-Najjar
was insufficient. The sentence said he is "associated with the Palestinian
Islamic Jihad," a Middle East terrorist group.

"Association is not a reasonable foundation for the immigration judge's decision
to deny bond and continue to detain (him) as a threat to national security,"
Lenard wrote of the June 1997 decision by an immigration judge in Bradenton.
There must, she said, be a degree of participation in activities, not simply
affiliation.

Al-Najjar, a Palestinian who has lived in the United States almost 20 years, has
not been charged with a crime. He was ordered deported for overstaying a student
visa and was denied bail during his appeal, after the government introduced
secret evidence it says links him to terrorists.

On Wednesday, one of his attorneys called Lenard's decision a "critical step
forward."

"I'm confident he will be released," said David Cole, a Georgetown University
law professor who argued the case before Lenard at a hearing April 18 in Miami
to appeal Al-Najjar's confinement.

"I think it's a very strong renunciation of the government's practice of using
secret evidence and holds that immigrants have the right to a fair trial," Cole
said.

Lenard could have ordered Al-Najjar released immediately. The government likely
would have filed a stay and appealed. On Wednesday, his family was disappointed
he is still not free.

"So when is he going to get out?" asked his wife, Fedaa Al-Najjar. The judge has
the power to say so and did not, she said.

"Thank God the judge ruled for due process," said Al-Najjar's sister, Nahla
Al-Arian. "It underlines our confidence in the justice system."

Representatives of the Justice Department and INS declined to comment, saying
they need more time to review the ruling.

Also unclear is how soon Al-Najjar will go before an immigration court for a
rehearing on bail. The judge did not set a time limit, and immigration
proceedings are notoriously slow.

The 43-year-old father of three is one of about two dozen immigrants involved in
secret evidence cases nationally. The immigrants are almost all Arab or Muslim.
Supporters say they are the victims of prejudice and politics.

In three recent cases in New Jersey, New York and California in which some of
the secret evidence was released, immigration judges reversed themselves after
the immigrants rebutted the allegations.

Lenard did not look at the secret evidence, which was submitted under seal by
the government and has never been shared with Al-Najjar or his attorneys. She
said she did not find it necessary to make her decision.

The use of classified information is within the government's authority in a bond
hearing, Lenard wrote.

Al-Najjar's hearing, however, "was not fundamentally fair" because Al-Najjar's
rights were not balanced against the government's interests, she wrote.

A rehearing should force the release of at least some of the classified
information, said his attorneys, either through a more detailed summary or
access to actual documents and federal agents' statements.


LOAD-DATE: June 7, 2000

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: COLOR PHOTO; Mazen Al-Najjar

                    Copyright 2000 Times Publishing Company


                              146 of 280 DOCUMENTS

                         St. Petersburg Times (Florida)

               June 01, 2000, Thursday, 0 South Pinellas Edition

Release of secret evidence ordered

BYLINE: SUSAN ASCHOFF

SECTION: NATIONAL; Pg. 1A

LENGTH: 661 words



The ruling is called the biggest breakthrough in immigration officials' case
against a Tampa resident who taught at USF.

A federal judge ruled Wednesday that Tampa resident Mazen Al-Najjar's
constitutional rights were violated when the government jailed him as an
associate of terrorists without letting him defend himself.

In the most significant legal breakthrough for the former University of South
Florida teacher since his arrest three years ago, the judge said immigration
officials should make public their secret evidence against Al-Najjar, so he can
respond, if they want to keep him in jail.

U.S. District Judge Joan A. Lenard ordered the Immigration and Naturalization
Service to have a new hearing to decide if Al-Najjar should get bail and be
allowed to rejoin his family while he appeals a deportation order.

Lenard said the one-sentence summary of the secret evidence given to Al-Najjar
was insufficient. The sentence said he is "associated with the Palestinian
Islamic Jihad," a Middle East terrorist group.

"Association is not a reasonable foundation for the immigration judge's decision
to deny bond and continue to detain (him) as a threat to national security,"
Lenard wrote of the June 1997 decision by an immigration judge in Bradenton.
There must, she said, be a degree of participation in activities, not simply
affiliation.

Al-Najjar, a Palestinian who has lived in the United States almost 20 years, has
not been charged with a crime. He was ordered deported for overstaying a student
visa and was denied bail during his appeal, after the government introduced
secret evidence it says links him to terrorists.

On Wednesday, one of his attorneys called Lenard's decision a "critical step
forward."

"I'm confident he will be released," said David Cole, a Georgetown University
law professor who argued the case before Lenard at a hearing April 18 in Miami
to appeal Al-Najjar's confinement.

"I think it's a very strong renunciation of the government's practice of using
secret evidence and holds that immigrants have the right to a fair trial," Cole
said.

Lenard could have ordered Al-Najjar released immediately. The government likely
would have filed a stay and appealed. On Wednesday, his family was disappointed
he is still not free.

"So when is he going to get out?" asked his wife, Fedaa Al-Najjar. The judge has
the power to say so and did not, she said.

"Thank God the judge ruled for due process," said Al-Najjar's sister, Nahla
Al-Arian. "It underlines our confidence in the justice system."

Representatives of the Justice Department and INS declined to comment, saying
they need more time to review the ruling.

Also unclear is how soon Al-Najjar will go before an immigration court for a
rehearing on bail. The judge did not set a time limit, and immigration
proceedings are notoriously slow.

The 43-year-old father of three is one of about two dozen immigrants involved in
secret evidence cases nationally. The immigrants are almost all Arab or Muslim.
Supporters say they are the victims of prejudice and politics.

In three recent cases in New Jersey, New York and California in which some of
the secret evidence was released, immigration judges reversed themselves after
the immigrants rebutted the allegations.

Lenard did not look at the secret evidence, which was submitted under seal by
the government and has never been shared with Al-Najjar or his attorneys. She
said she did not find it necessary to make her decision.

The use of classified information is within the government's authority in a bond
hearing, Lenard wrote.

Al-Najjar's hearing, however, "was not fundamentally fair" because Al-Najjar's
rights were not balanced against the government's interests, she wrote.

A rehearing should force the release of at least some of the classified
information, said his attorneys, either through a more detailed summary or
access to actual documents and federal agents' statements.


LOAD-DATE: June 7, 2000

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: COLOR PHOTO; Mazen Al-Najjar

                    Copyright 2000 Times Publishing Company


                              147 of 280 DOCUMENTS

                         St. Petersburg Times (Florida)

               June 01, 2000, Thursday, 0 South Pinellas Edition

Release of secret evidence ordered

BYLINE: SUSAN ASCHOFF

SECTION: NATIONAL; Pg. 1A

LENGTH: 661 words



The ruling is called the biggest breakthrough in immigration officials' case
against a Tampa resident who taught at USF.

A federal judge ruled Wednesday that Tampa resident Mazen Al-Najjar's
constitutional rights were violated when the government jailed him as an
associate of terrorists without letting him defend himself.

In the most significant legal breakthrough for the former University of South
Florida teacher since his arrest three years ago, the judge said immigration
officials should make public their secret evidence against Al-Najjar, so he can
respond, if they want to keep him in jail.

U.S. District Judge Joan A. Lenard ordered the Immigration and Naturalization
Service to have a new hearing to decide if Al-Najjar should get bail and be
allowed to rejoin his family while he appeals a deportation order.

Lenard said the one-sentence summary of the secret evidence given to Al-Najjar
was insufficient. The sentence said he is "associated with the Palestinian
Islamic Jihad," a Middle East terrorist group.

"Association is not a reasonable foundation for the immigration judge's decision
to deny bond and continue to detain (him) as a threat to national security,"
Lenard wrote of the June 1997 decision by an immigration judge in Bradenton.
There must, she said, be a degree of participation in activities, not simply
affiliation.

Al-Najjar, a Palestinian who has lived in the United States almost 20 years, has
not been charged with a crime. He was ordered deported for overstaying a student
visa and was denied bail during his appeal, after the government introduced
secret evidence it says links him to terrorists.

On Wednesday, one of his attorneys called Lenard's decision a "critical step
forward."

"I'm confident he will be released," said David Cole, a Georgetown University
law professor who argued the case before Lenard at a hearing April 18 in Miami
to appeal Al-Najjar's confinement.

"I think it's a very strong renunciation of the government's practice of using
secret evidence and holds that immigrants have the right to a fair trial," Cole
said.

Lenard could have ordered Al-Najjar released immediately. The government likely
would have filed a stay and appealed. On Wednesday, his family was disappointed
he is still not free.

"So when is he going to get out?" asked his wife, Fedaa Al-Najjar. The judge has
the power to say so and did not, she said.

"Thank God the judge ruled for due process," said Al-Najjar's sister, Nahla
Al-Arian. "It underlines our confidence in the justice system."

Representatives of the Justice Department and INS declined to comment, saying
they need more time to review the ruling.

Also unclear is how soon Al-Najjar will go before an immigration court for a
rehearing on bail. The judge did not set a time limit, and immigration
proceedings are notoriously slow.

The 43-year-old father of three is one of about two dozen immigrants involved in
secret evidence cases nationally. The immigrants are almost all Arab or Muslim.
Supporters say they are the victims of prejudice and politics.

In three recent cases in New Jersey, New York and California in which some of
the secret evidence was released, immigration judges reversed themselves after
the immigrants rebutted the allegations.

Lenard did not look at the secret evidence, which was submitted under seal by
the government and has never been shared with Al-Najjar or his attorneys. She
said she did not find it necessary to make her decision.

The use of classified information is within the government's authority in a bond
hearing, Lenard wrote.

Al-Najjar's hearing, however, "was not fundamentally fair" because Al-Najjar's
rights were not balanced against the government's interests, she wrote.

A rehearing should force the release of at least some of the classified
information, said his attorneys, either through a more detailed summary or
access to actual documents and federal agents' statements.


LOAD-DATE: June 1, 2000

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: COLOR PHOTO; Mazen Al-Najjar

                    Copyright 2000 Times Publishing Company


                              148 of 280 DOCUMENTS

                         St. Petersburg Times (Florida)

                             June 04, 2000, Sunday

Secret evidence prevents basic fairness

BYLINE: BILL MAXWELL

SECTION: PERSPECTIVE; Pg. 1D

LENGTH: 978 words



The United States has an anti-Arab, anti-Muslim bias that should concern all
freedom-loving citizens.

This bias - held by many of the nation's highest-ranking federal officials, many
in the Immigration and Naturalization Service - is clearly at the core of a
noxious immigration policy called "secret evidence." It is a provision of the
1996 Anti-Terrorism and Effective Death Penalty Act that Congress passed in
response to the World Trade Center and Oklahoma City bombings.

Intended to protect U.S. citizens, the anti-terrorism measure undermines some of
the nation's cherished constitutional protections. Specifically, the provision
lets the government use informant testimony or other forms of secret evidence to
imprison and deport even legal immigrants suspected of terrorism without letting
the suspects cross-examine their accusers.

As of this writing, about two dozen immigrants are involved in secret evidence
cases in various states. Here in the Tampa Bay area, Mazen Al-Najjar, a
43-year-old father of three and suspended professor at the University of South
Florida, has been denied bail and locked up on secret evidence for nearly three
years without being charged with a crime. Needless to say, he has been away from
his wife and children.

Al-Najjar's woes began in 1995, after press reports suggested that the World and
Islam Studies Enterprise (WISE), a University of South Florida think tank that
Al-Najjar managed, was a fundraising vehicle for terrorists. His troubles
mounted after the head of Palestinian Islamic Jihad was gunned down on the
Mediterranean island of Malta.

Two days later, another Tampa Muslim, Ramadan Shallah, who had been an
instructor at USF and a member of WISE, became Islamic Jihad's new leader and
surfaced in the Middle East.

Then-USF President Betty Castor launched an investigation into the activities of
WISE, but officials could not link the group to terrorist cells either
domestically or in the Arab world. The results of the investigation, however,
failed to help Al-Najjar.

The only ray of hope for the Palestinian refugee in this long struggle came on
Wednesday, when U.S. District Judge Joan A. Lenard ruled that INS must set a new
hearing to determine if Al-Najjar should be bonded out of jail and reunited with
his family while awaiting appeal of a deportation order. The result also may be
that Al-Najjar can be freed on bond until he has a deportation hearing for
having overstayed his student visa.

Essentially, Lenard said that the one-sentence capsule of the secret evidence
provided to Al-Najjar was not enough. It stated that he "associated with the
Palestinian Islamic Jihad."

In her 71-page opinion, Lenard, quoting another case, writes: "Without an
opportunity for Petitioner to confront the information demonstrating his alleged
"association,' there was no adversarial check on the quality of the information
on which the INS relied. The plea that evidence of guilt must be secret is
abhorrent to free men because it provides a cloak for the malevolent, the
misinformed, the meddlesome, and the corrupt to play the role of informer
undetected and uncorrected."

Lenard's message is a simple message: Although Al-Najjar may eventually be
directly linked to terrorists, INS and the courts have treated him unfairly.
More than likely, the new hearing will force INS to do more than give the
accused a one-sentence summary of the evidence against him.

The U.S. Supreme Court has ruled that aliens have the same rights of due process
that others on American soil have. If INS has incriminating evidence against the
man, the agency has a constitutional duty to produce it.

Is the Sixth Amendment not clear? It reads: "In all criminal prosecutions, the
accused shall enjoy the right to a speedy and public trial, by an impartial jury
of the state and district wherein the crime shall have been committed, which
district shall have been previously ascertained by law, and to be informed of
the nature and cause of the accusation; to be confronted with the witnesses
against him; to have compulsory process for obtaining witnesses in his favor,
and to have the assistance of counsel for his defense."

Of Judge Lenard's opinion of his client's case, attorney David Cole, Georgetown
University law professor, told the St. Petersburg Times: "I think it's a very
strong renunciation of the government's practice of using secret evidence and
holds that immigrants have the right to a fair trial."

Again, Al-Najjar's future depends on the strength of the secret evidence in his
files. In California, New Jersey and New York, judges have ruled for the accused
after seeing the so-called secret evidence against them and after hearing their
defenses. This is all that Al-Najjar is requesting: a fair day in court.

If his case mirrors that of another USF professor, Sami Al-Arian, who is
Al-Najjar's brother-in-law, he will be freed. Al-Arian, also a member of WISE,
was accused of associating with terrorists and denied citizenship based on
secret evidence. He was suspended from teaching computer science pending the
outcome of the secret-evidence hearing.

The so-called evidence against him - 18 photocopied pages cleared by the FBI -
turned out to be mere newspaper articles and a column from the Tampa Tribune.

After being cleared, Al-Arian said: "It's scary to see the most powerful
government on earth rely on biased and malicious reports.  . . . I think every
citizen should be concerned about the abuse of power by the government. It may
be tolerated by the majority when used against the minority, but, for sure, it
would never end there."

Is Mazen Al-Najjar guilty of aiding terrorists? We do not know. Only federal
officials have seen the evidence. And they are not talking, and they are not
showing anything to people outside their ranks - including the accused refugee.


LOAD-DATE: June 8, 2000

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: COLOR PHOTO, Times files; (1998) Mazen Al-Najjar

TYPE: COLUMN

                    Copyright 2000 Times Publishing Company


                              149 of 280 DOCUMENTS

                         St. Petersburg Times (Florida)

               June 24, 2000, Saturday, 0 South Pinellas Edition

Lawyers: Free Al-Najjar or rehear case

BYLINE: SUSAN ASCHOFF

SECTION: NATIONAL; Pg. 3A

LENGTH: 420 words



Attorneys for Mazen Al-Najjar, armed with a ruling from a federal judge saying
his rights were violated, sought his immediate release from jail or a speedy
rehearing on bail in paperwork filed Friday.

The motion, submitted to the immigration court in Bradenton, comes two weeks
after U.S. District Judge Joan A. Lenard of Miami ordered a review after finding
Al-Najjar was denied due process. Lenard said the immigration court failed to
balance the 43-year-old Palestinian's right to defend himself against the
government's right to protect national security by keeping its evidence secret.

Immigration Judge R. Kevin McHugh of Bradenton denied bail in June 1997 based on
secret evidence. He was later upheld by the Board of Immigration Appeals. Lenard
said the judge must first consider eligibility for bail based solely on evidence
in open court.

Friday's filing is designed to get the issue before the immigration judge as
soon as possible.

"The speed of the process is part of any due process claim. We are not satisfied
with a wait-and-see approach," said Joseph Hohenstein of Philadelphia, one of
five national attorneys for Al-Najjar.

Al-Najjar has lived in the United States almost 20 years and was a part-time
teacher at the University of South Florida. He was arrested May 19, 1997, after
being ordered deported for overstaying a student visa. He is appealing his
deportation.

McHugh said Al-Najjar is "a well-respected man, socially, religiously and
professionally" with strong community ties. But he denied bail based on the
classified information that Al-Najjar is a terrorist threat because of an
association with the Palestinian Islamic Jihad, he said.

Al-Najjar's attorneys said the government's case against him consists of "mere
suggestion and innuendo" by INS special agent William West.

Lenard did not prohibit the use of secret evidence in her ruling but said it
must be shared in some form with Al-Najjar so he may defend himself. It is
unclear how quickly Al-Najjar will go back to court, but Hohenstein said it may
happen within three weeks.

Lenard also found that "association," even if proven true, is insufficient to
deny Al-Najjar his freedom. The INS must show a "degree of participation" in a
terrorist group's activities, she said.

Al-Najjar's attorneys also went to federal court in Washington this week to file
a complaint under the Freedom of Information Act. Their requests for government
files on Al-Najjar has brought almost no response in over six months.


LOAD-DATE: June 24, 2000

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: BLACK AND WHITE PHOTO; Mazen Al-Najjar

                    Copyright 2000 Times Publishing Company


                              150 of 280 DOCUMENTS

                         St. Petersburg Times (Florida)

                July 28, 2000, Friday, 0 South Pinellas Edition

Hearing will pry at secret case against Tampa man

BYLINE: SUSAN ASCHOFF

SECTION: CITY & STATE; Pg. 3B

LENGTH: 631 words



The former USF teacher's accusers, the FBI and INS, must reveal enough of their
evidence that he may mount a defense, a judge says.

A Bradenton immigration judge Thursday ordered a hearing to determine whether a
Tampa man jailed for more than three years on secret evidence should finally be
freed.

The hearing, set for Aug. 11, could force the government to reveal why it wants
to keep Mazen Al-Najjar behind bars.

The government says the former University of South Florida teacher must be
detained as a threat because he has ties to Middle East terrorists. Al-Najjar,
being held in a Bradenton jail, says he is the victim of politics.

The 43-year-old Palestinian has become a symbol in a nationwide fight against
the use of secret evidence to detain more than two dozen Arab and Muslim
immigrants. Al-Najjar's case has inspired pending legislation to ban the
practice.

The hearing was ordered by immigration judge R. Kevin McHugh, who denied bail
for Al-Najjar three years ago after reviewing classified government information
alleging that Al-Najjar has ties to the Palestinian Islamic Jihad, an
organization the U.S. government designates a Middle East terrorist group.

Al-Najjar's attorneys then sought his release in federal court. On May 31, U.S.
District Judge Joan A. Lenard in Miami found his constitutional rights had been
violated.

With no information on why he was considered a threat, and thus no way to rebut
the government's accusations, Al-Najjar was denied due process, Lenard ruled.

Lenard clarified her order this week, saying that the immigration judge, not an
Immigration and Naturalization Service official, should reconsider bail. A day
later, McHugh set the August hearing.

"What remains to be seen is how the government will respond," said David Cole,
one of Al-Najjar's attorneys, on Thursday. "At a minimum, if the government
intends to proceed with classified evidence, they're going to have to provide a
detailed summary" so Al-Najjar can defend himself.

Ordered deported for overstaying a student visa after coming to the United
States almost 20 years ago, Al-Najjar appealed but was denied bail by McHugh on
June 23, 1997. While concluding that the information presented by the government
in open court was insufficient to warrant Al-Najjar's continued detention,
McHugh said the classified information shared with him in chambers showed him to
be a threat because of an "association with the Palestinian Islamic Jihad."

That single phrase is all Al-Najjar and his attorneys have been told about the
government's case.

Al-Najjar was involved in a Tampa think tank in the early 1990s. One of its
employees later assumed leadership of the Palestinian Islamic Jihad in Syria.

To protect Al-Najjar's rights, Lenard laid out a two-phase process for
determining his eligibility for bond that McHugh outlined in his order Thursday.

McHugh first must decide whether the evidence presented in open court in 1997 is
sufficient to prove Al-Najjar a threat. He already has said it did not. Unless
the government introduces additional information in open court, McHugh said he
will move to the second phase, in which the government may present classified
evidence.

McHugh noted that he does not have the authority to order the INS or the FBI to
disclose secret evidence. Should the government continue to use classified
information, it must provide as detailed a summary as possible - enough that
Al-Najjar may defend himself - as ordered by Lenard.

Attorneys for the INS could not be reached for comment.

Al-Najjar's attorneys say that if the government introduces any new information,
public or private, they want it before the August hearing and in enough detail
to remedy what the federal judge found to be, so far, an unfair fight.


LOAD-DATE: July 28, 2000

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DISTRIBUTION: CITY & STATE; METRO & STATE; TAMPA & STATE

GRAPHIC: BLACK AND WHITE PHOTO; COLOR PHOTO; Mazen Al-Najjar (ran City & State,
Tampa & State); Mazen Al-Najjar (ran Metro & State)

                    Copyright 2000 Times Publishing Company


                              151 of 280 DOCUMENTS

                         St. Petersburg Times (Florida)

               August 08, 2000, Tuesday, 0 South Pinellas Edition

Al Najjar's rehearing request opposed

BYLINE: SUSAN ASCHOFF

SECTION: CITY & STATE; Pg. 3B

LENGTH: 354 words



The government aims at a bail hearing for an ex-USF professor it calls a
terrorism supporter.

Government attorneys want to block a bail hearing for a Tampa man jailed on
classified evidence, saying that the Aug. 18 hearing could free a supporter of
international terrorism.

Mazen Al-Najjar, a former University of South Florida teacher, is accused of
ties to Middle East terrorists and has been detained in a Bradenton jail as a
national security threat.

In May, Al-Najjar won a rehearing on bail. A federal judge said his
constitutional rights were violated when the government shared secret evidence
with an immigration judge but did not give him enough to defend himself.

Immigration judge R. Kevin McHugh said Monday he will hear the case in his
Bradenton courtroom on Aug. 18. McHugh also wants both sides to furnish witness
lists by Friday.

The government, meanwhile, has gone back to the federal judge to attempt to
block the bail hearing.

A hearing poses "unacceptable risks of either disclosing information vital to
the national security, or allowing an illegal alien who actively supports
international terrorism to be at large in the United States," the government's
motion said.

In filings in late July, attorneys for the Immigration and Naturalization
Service said they intend to appeal U.S. District Judge Joan A. Lenard's order to
the 11th U.S. Circuit Court of Appeals.

Attorneys for the 43-year-old Al-Najjar said he has waited long enough.

A Palestinian who has lived in the United States almost 20 years, Al-Najjar was
ordered deported in 1997 for overstaying a student visa. He is jailed while he
appeals because the government says he participated in a think tank in Tampa
that was a front for the Palestinian Islamic Jihad, a group using suicide
bombers to derail the Middle East peace effort.

No criminal charges have been filed against Al-Najjar. He says he is not a
terrorist.

He is one of about two dozen immigrants nationwide, almost all of them Arab or
Muslim, involved in secret evidence cases. Critics say the practice is
unconstitutional and politically motivated.


LOAD-DATE: August 8, 2000

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DISTRIBUTION: CITY & STATE; METRO & STATE; TAMPA & STATE

GRAPHIC: BLACK AND WHITE PHOTO; Mazen Al-Najjar

                    Copyright 2000 Times Publishing Company


                              152 of 280 DOCUMENTS

                         St. Petersburg Times (Florida)

                August 10, 2000, Thursday, 2 Late Tampa Edition

INS crackdown on foreign-born criminals begins

SOURCE: Sun-Sentinel

SECTION: TAMPA & STATE; Pg. 4B

LENGTH: 529 words

DATELINE: MIAMI



By announcing the arrests of 20 convicted criminals Wednesday, the Immigration
and Naturalization Service said it is stepping up efforts to send foreign-born
criminals out of the country - and boosting efforts to curry public support of
its operations.

But the arrests that began Tuesday and are expected to climb to 30 Thursday did
little to impress immigrant advocates who criticized what they said amounts to a
rigid double standard, punishing people born outside the United States.

At a morning news conference, INS announced arrests of people who had previously
been found guilty of a laundry list of offenses including manslaughter with a
firearm, drug trafficking, sexual battery, child abuse, armed robbery and
prostitution. They now face deportation.

"These are criminals who affect the daily lives of John Q. Public," said INS
Section Chief Mario Cavallo. "We want to change the public perception of what
immigration law enforcement is all about. We're protecting the public."

Cavallo said tips from local law enforcement agencies and the public led to
investigations and ultimately to this week's arrests. In addition to the 20
already in custody, INS located another five  others  in local jails who had
been re-arrested on state charges. The agency plans to serve the remaining five
warrants today.

Most of those arrested had been lawfully admitted to the United States, said
Cavallo.

"But because of the lifestyles they led, they could now be deported," he said.

Critics point to a 1996 law passed by Congress that greatly increased the types
of deportable offenses while it took discretion to avoid deportation away from
immigration judges.

"They say they are arresting the most egregious cases, but that is not entirely
true," said Dahlia Walker, an immigration attorney in Pembroke Pines.

She pointed to the case of a 19-year-old client charged with aggravated assault
after a brawl with another woman. After the client pleaded no contest, a judge
gave her probation. But INS took the woman into custody at a probation hearing
and she now faces deportation to Jamaica.

"I'm not saying that there shouldn't be some method of removing a child
molester, but where does it stop?" Walker said. "When a state law judge looks at
a situation and the offense is deemed to be minor, it can still lead to
deportation. These are the kinds of cases they don't talk about."

Cavallo said he preferred to steer clear of policy questions, but noted many of
those arrested this week were repeat offenders. As INS served a warrant at an
apartment in Sunrise Wednesday morning, they noticed the suspect hurriedly
stuffing objects into ceiling tiles, said Cavallo. It turned out to be a pound
of marijuana.

"There's now a separate criminal investigation into that," he said. "Many of
these people are repeat offenders. We initiate these cases following a public
outcry."

There will be more raids, Cavallo said. Officials dubbed the action "Operation
Iceberg," because they have only begun to round up foreign-born criminals, he
said.

"This is a top priority of this office," he said. "It's going to happen a lot
more, I can tell you that."


LOAD-DATE: August 10, 2000

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DISTRIBUTION: TAMPA & STATE; CITY & STATE; METRO & STATE

                    Copyright 2000 Times Publishing Company


                              153 of 280 DOCUMENTS

                         St. Petersburg Times (Florida)

             January 21, 1998, Wednesday, 0 South Pinellas Edition

Study: Immigrants lower some wages

BYLINE: KATHERINE GAZELLA

SECTION: BUSINESS; Pg. 6E

LENGTH: 386 words

DATELINE: WASHINGTON



Competition from immigrants reduces the wages of native-born workers in
low-skilled jobs by as much as 12 percent, a new study says.

The author of the study, released Tuesday by the Center for Immigration
Studies, said the federal government should protect U.S. workers by allowing
fewer low-skilled immigrants into the country.

Immigrants have a "significant negative effect" on U.S. natives in  low-skilled
occupations, said Steven Camarota, a resident scholar for the  non-profit group.
The center suggested that the government reduce the number  of legal and illegal
immigrants who are qualified for low-skilled jobs.

Using Census Bureau statistics, the study's author looked at national  trends in
low-skilled fields in which the average employee has no more than a  high school
degree - a work force composed of about 25-million U.S.-born  people. Immigrants
have little effect on the wages of U.S.-born workers in  high-skilled jobs, the
report found.

More than 14-million immigrants hold jobs in this country. They are 60  percent
more likely than U.S.-born workers to be employed in low-skilled  occupations.

The study concluded that there simply are too many immigrants for the  country's
work force to absorb.

And the effects are not just seen in big cities that traditionally have  been
immigrant centers. As immigrants go to cities such as Miami and San  Diego,
Camarota said, U.S.-born workers have trouble finding jobs there and  often move
to other cities or smaller towns.

The think tank and other analysts were quick to point out that the effect  of
immigrants is not all negative, and that the study is not a wholesale
indictment of immigration.

"The study points out, once again, that immigration is no free lunch,"  said
Jared Bernstein an economist with the Economic Policy Institute. "It has  its
costs and benefits."

The study's results show a much greater effect on wages than earlier  reports
have found. Last year, the National Research Council found that the  national
economy benefits from immigrants, and that immigration has little  effect on
U.S.-born workers. The study did say, however, that low-income  people are more
likely to be affected by competition from immigrants, although  to a lesser
extent than the new study found.

LOAD-DATE: January 21, 1998

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                    Copyright 1998 Times Publishing Company


                              154 of 280 DOCUMENTS

                         St. Petersburg Times (Florida)

              February 10, 1998, Tuesday, 0 South Pinellas Edition

A border nightmare in the making

BYLINE: MARTIN DYCKMAN

SECTION: EDITORIAL; COLUMNS; Pg. 11A

LENGTH: 783 words



One needs to look only at Florida's traffic, especially at this time of year,
to appreciate what Canada and the United States mean to each other. The
plentitude of Canadian license plates is one reflection among many of the
world's longest - and friendliest - unfortified border. Canada is also by far
our largest trading partner, with the auto industry conducting $ 300-million
worth every day.

Congress, true to its instinct to never leave well enough alone, is about  to
turn that famously easy border crossing into a stomach-churning ordeal.

A provision in the so-called immigration "reform" act of 1996 requires  the
Immigration and Naturalization Service  to develop and implement by  September a
system to document "every alien" entering and leaving the United  States.

The INS is, of course, the same bureaucracy that is so far behind in  keeping up
with immigrants already here that some members of Congress are  talking about
abolishing it and distributing its duties to other agencies.

The INS' new burden may not add much to that of motorists crossing the  Mexican
border, where people are accustomed to showing papers and to traffic  delays.

But it will be a huge new problem for traffic across the border with  Canada,
whose citizens have never been required to show passports, visas or
border-crossing cards unless employed in the United States. Most cars are  waved
through with only a question or two and and perhaps a request for an ID.  There
are some 140,000 crossings each day - about 100 a minute.

Sen. Spencer Abraham, R-Mich., the new chairman of the Senate immigration
subcommittee, says he sees an "enormous problem on the horizon." That's  putting
it mildly. Delays of five to 17 hours are anticipated.

Canadians feel insulted and put-upon that they will now have to obtain
border-crossing cards. Americans will feel insulted and put-upon when they
realize that none of the existing border posts, bridges, tunnels or approach
roads is engineered for massive backups.

"It has been like, "Where have you been? Where are you going? Have a good
time,' " says Randolph Stansfield, the Canadian consul at Atlanta, who  visited
this newspaper recently to talk about the coming problem. "The last  time I
crossed, it took 5 1/2 seconds."

Under the new law, however, every Canadian in a car will have to stop to  fill
out a form to be checked and recorded on the way in and on the way out.  Even if
INS could produce state-of-the-art computerization (the INS?) the  processing
time would be measured in minutes, not seconds. Multiply that by  76-million,
the Canadian government's estimate of their annual visitors to the  United
States, and the apocalyptic delay projections are credible.

Drivers and passengers from the United States will not have to fill out  forms,
but they will have to wait in the same lines, at least on the Canadian  side,
and should expect that U.S. immigration and customs agents will be a lot  more
picky on this side to make sure no Canadians slip through unchecked.

The Canadians don't plan to retaliate in kind - you don't do that to  friends,
says Stansfield - but they don't intend to make it any easier for  Americans on
their side of the border either.

Problems are also predicted for air travelers. According to a Canadian  report,
the INS is estimating a 15 percent increase in inspection time at U.S.
airports.

Members of Congress from border states, who say Congress meant to exempt
Candians, have filed bills that would actually do so. But the Canadians worry
that some members of Congress may be unwilling to offend Mexico - and, more
important, American voters of Mexican heritage - by exempting only Canada.

Congress could fairly distinguish, given that illegal immigration from  Canada
hasn't been a problem. (Stansfield says only 76,000 Canadians are  thought to be
in the United States illegally.) But if equality is a concern,  Sen. Bob Graham,
D-Fla., is sponsoring legislation that would exempt all -  that is, both -
countries having land borders with the United States.

Given the INS' infamous backlogs and our warm relations with Canada, the  1996
amendment was as bad as any congressional brainstorm could be. It needs  to be
rethought. Immediately.

  Doris Cohen, the 101-year-old immigrant whose plight I described in a  recent
column, died last week in the Miami hospital that had been impatient to
discharge her to a nursing home, where she could not go because "welfare
reform" cut off her Medicaid entitlement. Mercifully, she never knew how she
had been cast adrift on a sea of congressional indifference.

LOAD-DATE: February 11, 1998

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: COLUMN

                    Copyright 1998 Times Publishing Company


                              155 of 280 DOCUMENTS

                         St. Petersburg Times (Florida)

                             March 8, 1998, Sunday

Old law, 9,000 miles separate family

BYLINE: TIM GRANT

SECTION: NORTH OF TAMPA; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1554 words

DATELINE: CARROLLWOOD



Recalling the tender moments he spent with his family at the airport gate  five
months ago, a father's eyes swell with tears.

An immigration deadline was looming, and Narong "Tom" Chulikavit had to  get his
wife out of the country. Her visa expired six years ago. If Amornrat  Chulikavit
were caught on U.S. soil after Sept. 27, the law said she would be  banned from
re-entering this country for 10 years.

So, on Sept. 25, Chulikavit said goodbye to his family at Tampa  International
Airport. Wiping his children's tears, he fought back his own. He  loaded his
wife and two children on a jet headed for Bangkok, Thailand,  believing this
painful sacrifice would keep them out of trouble with  immigration authorities.

They didn't expect their separation to be long, yet five months later, the
close-knit Carrollwood family remains separated by 9,000 miles and as many
worries. The family could be apart for years to come. And their pain is all  the
worse because it turns out they never really had to leave the United  States in
the first place.

Four days after his wife and children boarded the airplane, Congress  changed
the law.

Thousands of illegal immigrants who would have been affected by the  deadline
were allowed to stay here without penalty. No one would face  deportation or be
banned from re-entry. As long as they paid a $ 1,000 fine,  illegal immigrants
who had been ordered to leave, could file here for legal  status rather than at
U.S. consulates abroad.

"I'm upset I'm upset that I try to do the right thing," said Chulikavit,  45,
who learned English as his second language. "I do what the law says.  Then, it
ends up the law take care of the people who not obey the law."

Tampa immigration lawyer Robert Krug said he understands that sentiment.

"Immigration attorneys are finding it very difficult to advise clients  because
we don't have crystal balls," Krug said. "We can advise clients  based on what
the law is today, but that law may change tomorrow."

Chulikavit said he talked to five lawyers before making the difficult  decision
to split up his family. Krug said he suspects Chulikavit may have  gotten some
bad advice.

"Most likely his wife would not have been barred for 10 years, as they  were
probably afraid of. She could have stayed here and waited for her green  card
and not faced penalty because she entered the country legally.

"Her status would not have been legal while she waited, but it's unlikely  she
would have been deported during that time.

"To be honest, most people were not as cautious as this person. Most have
simply ignored the laws and stayed here illegally at all costs, and  ironically,
those people are probably better off than these people."

As if the adverse twist of fate isn't bad enough, what's worse is the grim
chance of Chulikavit reuniting his family any time soon, he said.

"It's an unfortunate situation and many are in the same spot," said Sonja
Stefanadis, district director for U.S. Rep. Michael Bilirakis in Clearwater.
"We're hoping Immigration can come up with a solution for us," she said.

Stefanadis said Bilirakis has contacted Immigration and Naturalization  Service
officers in Washington, D.C., concerning Chulikavit but has not heard  a
response.

But Chulikavit didn't just stop with Bilirakis. He has written Florida's  U.S.
senators, Bob Graham and Connie Mack, explaining his predicament and  hoping to
evoke compassion and concern.

"I miss my wife and children very much," he wrote in his letters. "I  would like
to bring them back to the USA to live as a family once again as  soon as
possible.

"A close loving family such as ours does not deserve to be separated for  such a
long period of time. These are the most important years of my  children's lives,
and I would like to be a part of their development."

The responses he got back from the lawmakers are nearly identical: INS is
extremely backlogged, and it would not be fair to expedite one application  over
all the others.

Chulikavit came to the United States in 1977. After working in New York
restaurants for 10 years, he and his brother Michael Chulikavit decided to  move
to Florida and start their own business.

"We learned that Tampa was going to grow and was supposed to be a  beautiful
town for families," Chulikavit said.

They moved here in 1987. A year later, the brothers opened Circles Cafe at
14362 N Dale Mabry Highway.

In 1990, Chulikavit was a bachelor working hard to make the restaurant a
success when he got a call from his father in Bangkok. His father had been in
the hospital for about a year and wanted his son to meet a nurse who had taken
excellent care of him.

At his father's urging, Chulikavit returned to Thailand after 13 years in  the
United States, to meet the woman. It wasn't exactly love at first sight,  but
seven months later, they were married.

"We see each other, we talk and we understand each other. We look at  things
from the same angle," he said. "We very comfortable, happy to talk  and be
around each other, and it builds up little by little. Even more when we  have
kids.

"She takes good care of the kids, me, the house. Those things is a lot of  work.
Sometimes she work so hard, and I just say, "Please rest.' "

Amornrat, 30, came to the United States in 1991 on a student visa. She  attended
the University of South Florida, where she studied English as a  second
language. But shortly after enrolling, she discovered she was pregnant  and was
unable to stay in school because of morning sickness.

Her student visa expired when she stopped attending school full time. At  that
point, she became an illegal alien.

In 1995, after the couple had had two children, Chulikavit, a resident  alien,
applied for his wife to receive a green card, which allows immigrants  to live
and work in the United States. But the INS is so far behind that it is  still
processing applications filed before 1993.

If Chulikavit were a U.S. citizen, his wife would automatically be granted  a
green card. However, he didn't apply for citizenship until September, 20  years
after he came to this country. He said becoming a U.S. citizen would  jeopardize
his ownership of real estate in Thailand. Immigration experts say  there is a
two-year backlog on citizenship applications in Tampa.

"The only avenue available may be filing a petition for humanitarian  parole,
which is very difficult to get," said Krug.

That would involve asking the U.S. consulate in Thailand to grant a  petition
solely for humanitarian reasons.

"Usually, separation of a family is not enough," Krug said. "There's a  ton of
sad stories like that out there. It might work out that she gets her  green card
before he gets his citizenship, but you could toss a coin on which  will happen
first."

Chulikavit said the U.S. consulate in Thailand has refused to grant his  wife a
temporary visa because it has no assurance her stay will be temporary.

His wife could have qualified for a special visa for foreign nurses, but  that
program no longer exists. Another type of visa gives priority to  immigrants in
professional occupations, but it's often difficult for nurses to  qualify.

"This thing sometimes effect my performance at work because I'm frustrated  in
this situation," he said. "Sometimes the employees complain that I get  upset so
easy, and I feel sorry because it's not their fault.

"I cannot perform well like I used to be. I try to keep myself busy all  the
time, but it bothers me when I try to sleep. Before, I was drinking a lot  after
they left, but I realize it doesn't get any better, and I get hangover  the next
day."

Chulikavit could move to Thailand and live with his family, but he has  spent 10
years building up Circles' business and doesn't want to sell.

His sons Tai, 5, and Toon, 3, are U.S. citizens by birth. They could live  here,
but he said they are better off with their mother since he works so much  at the
restaurant.

For now, the family is living with Chulikavit's parents in Bangkok while he
sends money to support them. Although the family is financially secure by Thai
standards, the bare cement floors and impoverished surrounding are a far cry
from what the children became accustomed to living in Country Place  subdivision
off Hutchison Road.

Both have suffered complications from severe mosquito bites in the harsh
Thailand climate. They've gone from McDonald's and Chuck E Cheese to a place
where the water is bad; malaria is a problem; and AIDS is out of control.

"They cry and beg to come home," Chulikavit said. "It breaks my heart."

But he cannot separate them from their mother.

"I am here at the restaurant all the time. I don't want our kids raised in  day
care."

Certain now that he has exhausted all the avenues he is aware of, there's
nothing left for Chulikavit to do but hope, pray and wait, he said.

"Every minute when I'm alone, the feeling comes in my mind right away,"  he
said. "I miss my kids. I miss my wife. I think about them all the time in  my
heart.

"I came here in 1977, and I see American people have a heart. I see they
reasonable. They understand family matters. I never thought it was going to be
this hard."

LOAD-DATE: March 10, 1998

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DISTRIBUTION: NORTH OF TAMPA

GRAPHIC: COLOR PHOTO, Special to the Times; COLOR PHOTO; Toon Chulikavit, 3,
hugs his father, Narong "Tom" Chulikavit, just before boarding a plane to
Thailand. (ran NTP); The last time Narong Chulikavit saw his family was Sept. 25
at Tampa International Airport, where he, wife Amornrat "Morn," and children
Tai, 5, and Toon, rear, posed for a family picture.

                    Copyright 1998 Times Publishing Company


                              156 of 280 DOCUMENTS

                         St. Petersburg Times (Florida)

                             March 15, 1998, Sunday

This may be last dance for folk fair

BYLINE: WAVENEY ANN MOORE

SECTION: NEIGHBORHOOD TIMES; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1056 words

DATELINE: ST. PETERSBURG



The International Folk Fair, an annual melting pot of cultures and a
longstanding Tampa Bay event, may be having its last run - unless it gets a
boost in attendance and corporate money.

"It is a make-or-break thing," said Jerry Richter, treasurer of the St.
Petersburg International Folk Fair Society, the non-profit group that puts on
the three-day event Friday through March 22 at Vinoy Park.

"If we make some money this year, we can go on. But if we lose, we have to
forget it," Richter said.

And that would be a pity, say organizers, who point to the fair's emphasis  on
diversity and its education of schoolchildren and adults about the world's  many
cultures.

"It shows the heritage of America," said Richter, who was born in  Germany.
"America is a nation of immigrants, and all these immigrants have  brought
something to help this country. We have 50 organizations from  different
nations."

Bethia Caffery, who organized the first folk fair with mostly European
immigrants, said, "Now we are worldwide. We are now a global village."

Notwithstanding, SPIFFS ended 1997 with a deficit of about $ 15,000 and had  to
dip into its reserves to pay its bills, its treasurer said. As a backup,  the
organization also took out a $ 20,000 line of credit, which it has not yet
used.

SPIFFS depends on the folk fair for its survival. Last year the event  brought
in $ 180,000. Expenses for 1998, however, are projected to run about  $ 282,000,
an amount that might not be covered with fair profits, other events  and current
corporate gifts and grants.

Caffery, who started the folk fair 22 years ago, is distressed that the
celebration of song, dance, crafts and food could come to an end after this
month's gathering.

"If we have bad weather, we are wiped out," she said.

"We've done very well from the beginning up until six or seven years  ago," she
said. "We had thousands of dollars. We had a paid-off building.  Now the
expenses of putting on a folk fair and maintaining a building have  continued to
go up, whereas the ticket sales have remained stable."

At this crucial time, SPIFFS needs corporate support to pull it through,
Caffery said. It is difficult for board members to ask, she added.

"The majority are first-generation immigrants," she explained. "They are  so
content and thrilled and proud of being Americans that it would not occur  to
them to ask for anything. None of our people would feel comfortable asking  for
corporate help."

Twenty-two ethnic groups participated in the first folk fair, which rapidly
grew into a popular yearly event. Last year, though, only about 37,000 people
attended. The drop was blamed on the fair's change of location to Vinoy Park,
an outdoor venue that apparently had a negative effect on school  participation.

This year, though, bolstered by new attractions and teaching aids, SPIFFS
executive director Lotta Baumann is expecting students and neighbors to return
in record numbers.

"It looks pretty good. I think that people were just afraid to go outdoors  for
the first time," she said. "People may say, "I was there 20 years ago.'  It is
not the same thing, and because it is outdoors I think people are  realizing
that it is as big as it is."

But moving the fair outdoors has meant higher costs for organizers, who had  to
spend extra money to fence Vinoy Park and pay for security.

Baumann, who works with one assistant, a temporary receptionist and  volunteers,
has been working feverishly to increase corporate sponsorship.  Among the
organizations supporting the fair this year are the St. Petersburg  Area Chamber
of Commerce, the City of St. Petersburg, AT&T, Coca-Cola,  Budweiser and
Winn-Dixie.

The executive director believes the survival of SPIFFS may depend on more  than
getting corporate sponsors and increasing ticket sales to the folk fair.

"It's not just that," she said. "We need to restructure the  organization. Maybe
we should just concentrate on the folk fair. We do the  Bastille Day. Maybe we
should concentrate on cultural festivals."

SPIFFS reaches more than 150,000 schoolchildren and adults each year with  its
community outreach programs, including an ethnic library and traveling  ethnic
suitcases, foreign language classes and language bank. It also offers  ethnic
luncheons at its headquarters at 2201 First Ave. N.

At present, the organization has about 50 participating ethnic groups. A  few
have become less active as their membership aged, Caffery said.

"What we have to do is reach more young people," she added.

And that happened last year, when Deborah Sweeney, a North Redington Beach
mother of two, attended the folk fair. Today, Sweeney and her family are  ardent
supporters of the organization that puts on the event.

"We got involved when my son Sean did a research paper on his Scottish
heritage, and we went to SPIFFS and he was just mesmerized by Henry Boyd. He  is
a bagpiper," Sweeney said. "And also we saw Seven Nations, the
Scottish-American rock band."

Sean, 13, now is learning to play the bagpipes from Boyd and will perform  at
this year's fair. His sister, Sierra, 7, is dancing in the international
children's group called Spice Children.

Sweeney, who refers to her family as multicultural, with Irish, Scottish,
Italian, Portuguese and Dutch heritages, said she does not want to lose  SPIFFS.

"The importance to me is to get children connected to their heritage,"  she
said. "I think we are losing that. We are losing how important  grandparents
are."

Sweeney's commitment to SPIFFS is leading her to distribute fliers about  the
folk fair.

"I am going to go to all the hotels and the restaurants (in the beach
communities) and see if they will place them in the windows for the  tourists,"
she said.

Others are just as committed to keeping the fair alive.

"I am giving my everything to the organization," said Baumann, who has  been
with SPIFFS since 1993.

"Since then I have breathed, worked and slept this around-the-clock. This  is my
life."

Caffery, who started it all, is hopeful.

"Our prayer and our hope is that we have great weather and lots of people  come
to the folk fair and generate enough money to keep it going," she said.  "We
need a lot of people to come."

LOAD-DATE: March 17, 1998

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: COLOR PHOTO, Photo by AIMEE JEANSONNE; Rosemary Gallina, president of
the Italian-American Society, dusts off a statue of a carabiniere , an elite
Italian police officer, for this weekend's International Folk Fair in Vinoy
Park., (ran East)

                    Copyright 1998 Times Publishing Company


                              157 of 280 DOCUMENTS

                         St. Petersburg Times (Florida)

               April 14, 1998, Tuesday, 0 South Pinellas Edition

Can Canadian become a resident?

BYLINE: NANCY PARADIS

SECTION: FLORIDIAN; ACTION; Pg. 2D

LENGTH: 1310 words



Clarification (6/17/98): A number of weeks ago Action addressed a query  about
becoming a permanent resident of the United States from a Canadian who  lives in
Florida part of each year. A reader subsequently let us know that the
information we had been given by a spokeswoman for the Justice Department's
Immigration and Naturalization Service in Washington, D.C., was incorrect. In  a
letter to Action, James Minton, officer-in-charge of the U.S. Department of
Justice Immigration and Naturalization Service in Tampa, clarified the  process:
Minton said a citizen of Canada seeking resident status in the United  States is
subject to the same requirements as citizens of other countries. A  spouse,
parent or child of a U.S. citizen can qualify for resident status by a  visa
petition filed by that relative. Other relatives - such as the brother or
sister or adult or married child of a U.S. citizen, or a spouse or unmarried
child of a resident alien - likewise can qualify with such a petition, but are
subject to numerical limitations and must often wait a number of years, he
said. Immigrants must also establish their eligibility to enter the United
States by proving they are not excludable on grounds such as criminal records,
medical bans or being likely to become a public charge. Minton said the
Diversity Immigrant Program was established to provide visas to persons from
countries with low rates of immigration to the U.S. The program makes 55,000
visas available annually. The applicants who are selected in a lottery draw
must still meet the eligibility requirements, which include proof of a high
school education or equivalent or two years of work experience in an  occupation
that requires at least two years of training or experience. Canada  does not
have a low rate of immigration and is therefore not a country  designated in
this program, said Minton. (The Action response indicated that  someone from
Canada could qualify through the visa lottery program.) The  Action column
stated that a visitor from Canada can be admitted to the United  States for up
to six months and does not need a passport or visa when seeking  to enter from
Canada as a visitor for pleasure or business. This is true;  however, such
visitors must establish their identity and Canadian nationality  with documents
such as a birth certificate or naturalization certificate, as  well as photo
identification; many Canadians use a passport to do so. Minton  said the column
was incorrect in stating that Canada is one of 22 countries in  the Visa Waiver
Pilot Program, which permits nationals of those countries to  visit the U.S. for
up to 90 days with some limitations without first obtaining  a nonimmigrant
visa. It is a different regulation that covers nonimmigrant  visas for Canadian
and British nationals. For further information, call the  Ask Immigration
telephone line at (800) 375-5283. It provides information 24  hours a day and
information officers are available during normal business  hours. To obtain
forms, call (800) 870-3676.

I am a Canadian who lives here eight months of the year. I own a house here  and
stay with family the four months I'm home in Canada.

Could you tell me if I could become a resident, and how would I benefit by
becoming one? I have a Florida driver's license. I am 70 years old. What would
I have to do? Ruth Locke

Response: We can't give you a definitive answer since we don't know all of  your
circumstances. You might want to consult an attorney for legal advice on  your
specific situation.

In terms of how you might benefit by becoming a permanent resident, it  would
make you eligible for homestead exemption. But there's a catch.

According to Pam Dubov, chief deputy at the property appraiser's office in
Pinellas County, the main issue is whether you receive benefits in Canada. One
of the biggest stumbling blocks for part-time Canadian residents seeking
permanent residency here is the Canadian national health care coverage. If you
apply for homestead exemption in Florida, you will have to sign a form giving
the Canadian health care authorities permission to disclose whether you have
accepted or declined coverage. You cannot keep it and become a resident here,
Dubov said; you have to be a resident of Canada. You cannot have your cake and
eat it too.

There's more, though. To become a legal resident of the United States, you  will
need to get a green card. To do that, you have to go through the  application
process just like all other foreign nationals, said Eileen  Schmidt, spokeswoman
for the Justice Department's Immigration and  Naturalization Service. The two
main ways you could qualify are through the  visa lottery program or based on
family preference, in other words, a family  member already living here could
petition on your behalf.

As it now stands, you can spend up to six months in the U.S. without a visa
through the visa-waiver program. According to Schmidt, this program comprises
only 22 countries. Canada is one of them. For longer stays, however, or for
foreigners from countries not in the visa-waiver program, a non-immigrant visa
is required.

Television set worthless

   I purchased a television set for my mother in 1994 that is absolutely
worthless. It will cost more for repairs than the original purchase price. The
TV repairman along with several TV salesmen have recently told me that this
particular brand needs lots of repairs and is therefore not a good buy. If  this
is so, why are consumers being robbed this way? The manufacturer is  making TVs
that cost less but need more repairs, and only when you experience  a problem do
you find out that its product is not a good buy. Consumers should  be alerted
not to buy this TV. Shelley Lang

Response: Consumers also bear some responsibility for checking out the  quality
and reliability of products before they buy them. In addition to  asking around
and getting recommendations from friends, check out a product's  quality,
performance and repair history in Consumer Reports. In this case, the  repair
history for your TV receives a poor rating in the magazine.

Printer has been shipped

   I am writing about an ad for a personal printer that was either mailed to  me
or inserted in a Sunday edition of your paper. I sent a check for $ 8.83 on
Jan. 7. It was cashed six days later, but to date I have not received my
merchandise. I have also written to the company but never received a reply.  Can
you help? Doris Genther

Response: We hope you have it by now. We received a copy of the computer  screen
showing your order with a penciled in note that your printer was  shipped March
17. If you have not yet received it, let us know, and we'll try  again.

Reaction

   Regarding the matter of the missing deposit entry in my savings account  with
NationsBank at 5505 Park St. N in St. Petersburg, I'm happy to say it has  been
found after three months. It was located at a NationsBank somewhere in  Texas.
It may have turned up because of the efforts of the bank manager or the  swift
action of Action. I do want to say that I am most grateful to Action for  its
swift response to my request. It is encouraging to know that there is an  avenue
out there for getting help with problems. Thanks a million. John Hysler

If you have a question for Action, or your attempts to resolve a consumer
complaint have failed, write: Times Action, P.O. Box 1121, St. Petersburg, FL
33731, or call your Action number, 893-8171, or, outside of Pinellas, (800)
333-7505, ext. 8171, to leave a recorded request for Action. Names will not be
omitted except in unusual circumstances. Letters may be edited for length and
clarity.

LOAD-DATE: June 18, 1998

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: COLUMN

                    Copyright 1998 Times Publishing Company


                              158 of 280 DOCUMENTS

                         St. Petersburg Times (Florida)

                             April 19, 1998, Sunday

America is the only home she knows

BYLINE: BILL MAXWELL

SECTION: PERSPECTIVE; Pg. 1D

LENGTH: 1370 words

DATELINE: HOLIDAY



Deportation is not, of course, a penal sanction. But in severity it surpasses
all but the most Draconian criminal penalties.

- Chief Judge Irving R. Kaufman, in the case of (John) Lennon vs.  Immigration &
Naturalization Service

Canadian-born Catherine Caza, 40, has never met Florida Gov. Lawton Chiles,  but
she sure does want to.

The governor also has a compelling reason to meet Caza. He is the only  state
official who can prevent the Immigration and Naturalization Service from
deporting her, a legal permanent resident, to a country that she left in 1960.
That is when her parents brought her from Sault St. Marie, Ontario, to Detroit
- at the age of 3.

"I am an American," she said. "I have no affinity with Canada."

If Chiles meets Caza, he will see for himself that she is American in every
way. Chiles will hear her accent, which may remind him of his own Florida
Cracker heritage.

He will learn that she is not a dangerous criminal but an intelligent,
hard-working college student, a community volunteer who raises money for
combat-wounded American veterans, the mother of a bouncy daughter, 7-year-old
Carly, who loves to dance to rap music.

After meeting Caza, Chiles may agree with those who know her well, that she
deserves to be granted executive clemency on a drug conviction of selling  pills
to an undercover officer in 1981.

Her ordeal began in 1980, when Caza became infatuated with Ron McKenna. At
least, that is what he called himself. During the nine-month relationship,
McKenna asked Caza to get drugs for him almost every time they met. She
relented and got him 21 tablets of Quaaludes and LSD. The problem was that
McKenna, an undercover cop, arrested her.

"After he arrested me," Caza said, "he told me that if I cooperated,  wore a wig
and put on a body bug and tried to get people in this lounge on  Gulf-to-Bay to
sell me drugs, I wouldn't be in trouble. I wouldn't do it. I  just don't believe
in that."

She was released on her own recognizance. In 1982, on the advice of a  public
defender, Caza pleaded guilty to illegally selling controlled  substances and
received five years' probation. She knew that the conviction  made her
deportable but thought that her troubles were over after the INS did  not
contact her further.

What she did not know, though, was that the INS had initiated the process  to
deport her. Ordinarily, the agency brings such an order before an  immigration
judge a few weeks after issuing it. In Caza's case, the INS did  not act for 15
years, filing the order in court on Feb. 24, 1997, long after  she had forgotten
about the charge and had established a stable life as a  mother and as a student
at St. Petersburg Junior College.

The tragic irony of the agency's procrastination is that if it had filed  the
order in 1982 - as it was supposed to - Caza would have been eligible for  a
waiver of deportation and probably would have received it. This waiver
protected legal aliens who had lived in the U.S. for at least seven years from
hardship. At the time of her conviction, she had been a legal resident for 21
years, and leaving the country would have posed a hardship.

Now, Caza and thousands of other legal aliens have no hardship protection.
Revised immigration laws of 1996 retroactively made any legal immigrant with a
drug conviction subject to immediate deportation - no matter how long ago the
conviction occurred.

Last year, the Associated Press reports, the INS expelled 113,324 people  who
were in the country unlawfully and has set a goal of 127,000 expulsions  this
year. Because the INS sat on its hands, Caza has been declared an  "undesirable"

 and may wind up becoming a deportation statistic.

Why did the INS wait 15 years to come after Caza? Listen to INS  Commissioner
Doris Meissner: "Removing individuals who are unlawfully here  remains a key
component of our overall enforcement strategy to restore  credibility to our
nation's immigration laws."

Meissner is hardly describing Caza, and the question remains: Why come  after
Caza at this time? Immigration officials refuse to comment on the case,  which
is now in litigation.

On June 26, 1997, Judge Rex Ford ordered the INS to take Caza into custody  and
to forcibly remove her from the country. When she asked him what would  happen
to Carly, who was born in the United States and is an American citizen,  if she
were expelled, the judge said: "Some of these cases are absolutely
heart-wrenching. I will tell you that the law changed, and there are no  waivers
for these things now. I'm not unsympathetic."

Caza was not taken into custody because, in addition to having an  immigration
lawyer at her side, the facility for women was crowded and would  not accept new
detainees. Meanwhile, she has appealed to Ford to reverse the  deportation
order, even though she and her lawyer know that the revised policy  has tied the
judge's hands.

"I guess we're just trying to buy some time," she said.

Her life is in limbo because she can be deported at any time. Her only
realistic hope of living normally again is to get a full pardon from the
governor.

Her attorney, B. John Ovink of Tampa, has filed a request for executive
clemency with the state board, which consists of the governor and the Cabinet.
It meets in early June, when Caza and Chiles may come face to face. After
hearing her appeal, the Cabinet will make a recommendation, the final decision
resting with the governor.

Ovink said that if his client is pardoned, the INS would no longer have  cause
to deport her.

"To institute proceedings to deport Catherine for a crime committed 16  years
ago is egregious," he said. "To institute proceedings the moment that  no relief
is available anymore is completely outrageous. She was entrapped by  a cop she
had romantic feelings for.

"If deported, she will not ever be eligible to return to live with her  daughter
in the U.S., and only with dispensation from the attorney general -  which is
virtually impossible to obtain - will she ever be able to visit the  U.S. ever
again. I want the clemency board to look at her as a person, as an  individual
who has paid society for her crimes and never got into trouble  again, started a
new life and is personally responsible for herself and her  family. I want the
board to forgive Catherine Caza because she deserves a  break."

Despite the huge odds against her, Caza has not been a mere victim. She has
written more than 1,500 letters to federal and state officials, including
members of the Florida Cabinet, several times. Most recently, she wrote to 30
governors and will write to the rest of them. Georgia's Zell Miller and New
York's George Pataki have replied, sympathizing with her problem but politely
pointing out that they lack influence in federal cases.

State Rep. Debra Prewitt, D-New Port Richey, and state Sen. Jack Latvala,
R-Palm Harbor, are actively working on Caza's behalf. But even with such help,
her life is falling apart. Commuting 60 miles a day to school and surviving on
student loans and her mother's generosity, Caza lives in fear.

"I'm just waiting for the other shoe to drop," she said. "It's put  stress on
all my family - my mother, a widow, who lives across the street from  me. It's
really got to Carly. Last semester, she went from being the head of  her class
to being behind. She got into a fight on the bus and had to write a  letter of
apology.

"I've been focusing on saving myself - trying to stay in the country.  She's
probably getting yelled at more. My patience, you know. I'm a student  and what
little money I have has been going to lawyers. It hasn't been a good  quality of
life for any of us. It's hard to organize your life with something  like this
hanging over your head."

Caza dreams of graduating with a degree in social work, getting a good job  and
rearing Carly in America.

"To exile me to a country where I have no ties, where I know no one, is  wrong,"

 she said. "I am an American. I want to stay in this country with my  daughter -
who wasn't even born when I got into trouble so long ago."

LOAD-DATE: April 21, 1998

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: COLOR PHOTO, BOBBY SANCHEZ; Catherine Caza, who has lived in the United
States since age 3 but now faces deportation, poses with her 7-year-old
daughter, Carly, at their home in Holiday.

TYPE: COLUMN

                    Copyright 1998 Times Publishing Company


                              159 of 280 DOCUMENTS

                         St. Petersburg Times (Florida)

                  May 31, 1998, Sunday, 3 Early Tampa Edition

Cuba tells Nicaragua players will stay put

SOURCE: Compiled from Wire Reports

SECTION: SPORTS; NOTEBOOK; Pg. 7C

LENGTH: 667 words

DATELINE: MEXICO CITY



Cuba denied Saturday that any arrangements had been made with Nicaragua to
grant visas for three Cuban players and a coach who tried to flee the island
but were forcibly returned.

The four said Friday they have been promised visas by officials at the
Nicaraguan embassy in the Cuban capital. Afterward, coach Orlando Chinea said
he was told the offer applied to all of the approximately 190 Cubans the
Bahamas repatriated in recent weeks.

Cuba's Foreign Ministry said that if Nicaraguan President Arnoldo Aleman is
willing to accept immigrants, he could have all the Cubans he wanted - but not
the repatriated players.

"If Mr. Aleman is so generous, we would be willing to give authorization  for
any citizen wishing to emigrate legally to Nicaragua," the Foreign  Ministry
said in a statement published by the official news agency Prensa  Latina.

The Bahamas has a treaty with Cuba under which it returns illegal  immigrants to
Cuba.

On Thursday, Aleman offered his country as a haven for the repatriated  Cubans.
Aleman also said the Miami-based, anti-Castro Cuban-American National
Foundation had agreed to cover the costs of the transfer.

ASTROS: OF Richard Hidalgo was placed on the 15-day disabled list after
separating his right shoulder crashing into the wall Friday night. To fill his
spot, OF Ray Montgomery was recalled from Triple-A New Orleans.

BLUE JAYS: Woody Williams has allowed just three earned runs in his past 25  2/3
innings.

BRAVES: The team has lost three in a row for the first time since Colorado
swept a series at Turner Field Sept. 12-14.

BREWERS: Doug Jones, the team's 40-year-old closer who has surrendered nine
homers and blown seven saves, has lost his job - sort of. He will share  closing
duties with right-hander Bob Wickman and lefty Mike Myers, manager  Phil Garner
said.

DIAMONDBACKS: CF Devon White was not in the lineup after 54 starts because  of a
tweaked right hamstring. But the team said he was available to play, if  needed.

DODGERS: The team announced that during the Cardinals series starting  Tuesday,
stadium gates will open two hours before the game and parking lots  will open 2
1/2 before - a half-hour difference in each case - to accommodate  the volume of
fans expected to arrive early to watch Mark McGwire attack the  leftfield
pavilion during batting practice.

GIANTS: CF Darryl Hamilton bruised his left heel when he fouled a ball off  his
foot  and was listed as day-to-day.

ORIOLES: RHP Scott Kamieniecki was placed on the 15-day disabled list with  a
stiff neck, leaving the team without three members of its starting rotation.  He
joins Mike Mussina (fractured nose) and Jimmy Key (rotator cuff  inflammation)
on the DL. To fill the void, the team purchased the contract of  Richie Lewis
from Triple-A Rochester. Lewis likely will start Monday against  Seattle.

RED SOX: SS Nomar Garciaparra did not play. He was activated from the  disabled
list Thursday after being sidelined by a problem with his right  shoulder, and
agitated himself going for a grounder Friday. Manager Jimy  Williams said the
team would see how he was feeling today.

ROYALS: Former relief ace Dan Quisenberry, who is battling brain cancer,  was
inducted into the team's Hall of Fame during a pregame ceremony.  Quisenberry
thanked everyone in a halting voice for giving him "more than I  deserve."

WHITE SOX: OF Ruben Sierra was given his outright release after he cleared
waivers Friday.

YANKEES: GM Brian Cashman said his "impression is now changing" about the
availability of Randy Johnson. Cashman spoke to Seattle GM Woody Woodward late
Friday but said the discussion had "no substance to it." The Mariners may  want
to dump Johnson but  are not ready to tank this season. Cashman initially
thought Seattle would do something by this weekend. The M's asked for Andy
Pettitte and Mariano Rivera during the winter, and they still covet Pettitte.

- TIMES WIRES

LOAD-DATE: June 2, 1998

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: BLACK AND WHITE PHOTO, Associated Press; Dodgers starter Hideo Nomo
towels off after the second inning.

TYPE: DIGEST

                    Copyright 1998 Times Publishing Company


                              160 of 280 DOCUMENTS

                         St. Petersburg Times (Florida)

                July 19, 1998, Sunday, 0 South Pinellas Edition

PAPERWORK PROBLEMS // Delays doom couple's adopted son to deportation

BYLINE: AMY HERDY

SECTION: NATIONAL; CROSSING THE LINE; Pg. 10A

LENGTH: 402 words

DATELINE: BRADENTON



Although adopted and raised in the United States by American parents, John  Gaul
III is about to deported to Thailand, a country he has not seen since he  was 4.

Why? A paperwork glitch by the government and Gaul's own conviction on  felony
theft charges as a teenager.

"I know I messed up, but I served my time," said Gaul, 24, during an  interview
at an immigration detention center in Bradenton. "This is unfair  treatment of
an American citizen."

Trouble is, he's not a citizen.

Pam and her husband, John Gaul, Jr., who was in the Air Force, adopted  their
son from Bangkok, Thailand, in 1979 after being stationed in Asia.

For the next 20 years Gaul was raised in the U.S. as a typical American  child.
An all-star athlete, he played basketball, baseball and soccer, and  attended
private school in Tampa.

His parents had filed his birth certificate in the U.S. but discovered when  he
was 17 they had not filed the proper paperwork with the U.S. Department of
Immigration and Naturalization Services, or INS.

Gaul's mother, Pam, immediately filed the paperwork, but INS rejected it
because she submitted the wrong fee. By the time a second packet was processed
and a hearing scheduled, Gaul had turned 18, making him ineligible to become a
citizen.

When he was 18, Gaul ran afoul of the law.

He and several friends were convicted of writing worthless checks and  stealing
a car, both felonies.

Gaul served 20 months in state prison, and was released Dec. 31, 1996.
Immigration officials took him straight to the deportation center, where he  was
held for four months before his mother bailed him out.

Last year, immigration judge R. Kevin McHugh said the immigration service  was
"totally to blame" for taking too long to process Gaul's citizenship
application. Still, McHugh said there was nothing he could do.

His appeals exhausted, Gaul turned himself in to the deportation center  July 8.
He fears being sent to a country whose language and culture he does  not know,
and whose politics and religion he does not agree with.

"I'll be lost," he said.

To his mother, Gaul's case is more than unfair; it is devastating.   Although
she knows her only child made a mistake, she never dreamed he'd be  banished
because of it.

"In this country we allow people to start over again," she said, "and  he's
being denied that. And it breaks my heart."

LOAD-DATE: July 21, 1998

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: COLOR PHOTO, MIE PEASE; John Gaul III sits in an immigration detention
center in Bradenton.

                    Copyright 1998 Times Publishing Company


                              161 of 280 DOCUMENTS

                         St. Petersburg Times (Florida)

                July 21, 1998, Tuesday, 0 South Pinellas Edition

IMMIGRATION MIX-UP // Neighbors start petition for couple

BYLINE: SUSAN TAYLOR MARTIN

SECTION: CITY & STATE; Pg. 1B

LENGTH: 685 words

DATELINE: TREASURE ISLAND



Atul and Hemini Shah still might have to leave the United States next week,  but
it won't be for lack of support from residents of this Pinellas beach
community.

In just a few hours Monday, hundreds of people signed petitions urging the  U.S.
government to extend the Shahs' visa so they won't have to leave behind  their
two young children and the popular package store they've owned for 10  years.

"They're wonderful people. They've contributed in a million ways to our
island," said Deaney Lee, office manger of Island-Rent-A-Car. "I can't  believe
a mistake is going to prevent them from staying."

In a story Sunday, the Times described how the Shahs, who moved here from
England in 1989, discovered that they have been in this country illegally for
several months because of a paperwork mix-up. Under the harsh penalties of the
1996 Immigration Reform Act, they must depart voluntarily by July 28 or be
banned from re-entering the United States for 10 years.

The Shahs also have been unable to get an extension of the investor's visa  they
need to continue running their store, At Cost Liquors and Beer. The U.S.
Consulate in London claims the Shahs aren't making enough to support
themselves, although they live comfortably and their IRS tax forms show the
business is profitable.

On Sunday, 175 or so customers dropped by the store to offer support and  "there
were at least as many calls," said Sid Shah, a cousin. "It was  pretty much
non-stop all day." Several calls, including one from a  vacationing Pinellas
judge who lives next to the Shahs, came in from out of  state.

Between 50 and 60 people also turned up Sunday evening at a nearby  restaurant
for a hastily called meeting to discuss ways to help the family.  Among them was
former Treasure Island Mayor Walter Stubbs.

"I've known the family for a long time, and I think they're very  worthwhile
citizens and productive people," he said.

Stubbs, who was born in England but is a naturalized U.S. citizen, says he
understands Congress' desire to crack down on foreign-born terrorists and  other
undesirables who enter the country illegally. "But," he added, "I'm  in sympathy
with people who get caught in a bureaucratic maze, which this  happens to be."

By noon Monday, petitions had been circulated at numerous stores and  offices
throughout this Gulf-front community of 7,500, whose population swells  in
winter due in part to foreign visitors.

Lee of the rental car agency said she's "hearing all kinds of things"  about
alleged harassment of non-citizens since the 1996 immigration act took  effect.
On Monday, the Canadian-born Lee, now a U.S. citizen, passed out  "Help the
Shahs!" petitions to nine other beach businesses.

The Shahs' store "is an old-fashioned mom and pop where service is No.  1," she
said. "And they've done more for Treasure Island than a lot of  people who've
lived here for 30 years."

Among other things, the Shahs are frequent volunteers at St. John's  Catholic
School, which their children attend, and they support many civic and  charitable
causes.

The petitions will be copied later this week and turned over to Florida's  two
U.S. senators, Bob Graham and Connie Mack, as well as U.S. Rep. C.W. Bill  Young
and other office holders who represent Pinellas County.

Barring a last-minute reprieve, the Shahs plan to leave this weekend for
London, where they hope to persuade the U.S. consulate to reconsider denial of
their investor's visa. A friend who owns a nearby beach motel has offered to
run the store in their absence. And Atul Shah's mother has just arrived to  care
for Darshan, 7, and Arti, 5, who can't fly because of middle-ear  problems.
However, the elder Mrs. Shah cannot legally remain in this country  for more
than three months.

The Shahs looked slightly dazed Monday in light of the huge outpouring of
support.

"No crying today, okay?" said Kathleen Muir, a long-time customer, as she
hugged 30-year-old Hemini.

"I don't think I have any more tears," came the slightly choked-up reply.

LOAD-DATE: July 22, 1998

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DISTRIBUTION: CITY & STATE; METRO & STATE; TAMPA & STATE

GRAPHIC: COLOR PHOTO, RICARDO FERRO; BLACK AND WHITE PHOTO, RICARDO FERRO; Neal
Ford signs a petition Monday in support of Hemini Shah, behind the counter at
her store, and her husband, Atul. (ran CITY & STATE, METRO & STATE); Neal Ford
signs a petition Monday in support of Hemini Shah, behind the counter at her
store. (ran TAMPA & STATE)

                    Copyright 1998 Times Publishing Company


                              162 of 280 DOCUMENTS

                         St. Petersburg Times (Florida)

               July 25, 1998, Saturday, 0 South Pinellas Edition

Couple facing ouster get break

BYLINE: SUSAN TAYLOR MARTIN

SECTION: CITY & STATE; Pg. 1B

LENGTH: 425 words

DATELINE: TREASURE ISLAND



For the first time in months, a couple facing a 10-year banishment from the
United States because of a paperwork mix-up got some encouraging news Friday.

The U.S. Immigration and Naturalization Service has agreed to give Hemini  Shah,
a citizen of India, at least 30 more days in this country so she can  tend to
her daughter's medical problems and continue running the family-owned  liquor
store.

However, her husband, Atul, a British citizen, still must depart Sunday or  be
barred from re-entering the United States for a decade.

The extension for Mrs. Shah "is unusual, and it's a good sign," the  couple's
lawyer, Ramon Carrion, said Friday. "Certainly the INS in this case  has been
very cooperative and very reasonable under the circumstances. It's  just the
U.S. consulate in London that's been intransigent."

In 1989, the Shahs moved here from England and bought At Cost Liquors and  Beer
on Gulf Boulevard. However, the U.S. consulate has refused to renew their
investor's visa on the grounds they are not making enough to support
themselves. The Shahs strongly dispute that contention.

In a separate problem, the Shahs' I-94 entry-and-departure forms expired  months
ago because of what even the INS says was an innocent paperwork mistake  on
their part. As a result, they had until July 28 - next Tuesday - to leave  the
country voluntarily or be slapped with a 10-year banishment.

Their plight, described in a Times story on the harsh provisions of the  1996
Immigration Reform Act, elicted an outpouring of support. Almost 2,000  people
have signed petitions urging the U.S. government to renew their visa,  and U.S
Rep. C.W. Bill Young, R-Indian Rocks Beach, got involved.

"'The INS agreed with the congressman that this (extension) was the best  thing
to do in the interim, and from his hospital bed he's still working with  the
folks in London," said Harry Glenn, Young's press secretary. Young  underwent
gall bladder surgery this week.

The Shahs feared they would be separated from their two small children  because
their daughter, 5-year-old Arti, has serious middle-ear problems that  make it
impossible for her to fly.  Now Mrs. Shah will be able to take her to  a
long-scheduled appointment with a specialist in early August.

Meanwhile, her husband will leave Sunday for London, where he hopes to  persuade
consular officials to renew their visa. If he is turned down, he will  have to
wait another six months to apply.

"I'm already getting butterflies," he said Friday.

LOAD-DATE: July 27, 1998

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DISTRIBUTION: CITY & STATE; METRO & STATE; TAMPA & STATE

GRAPHIC: BLACK AND WHITE PHOTO, (2); COLOR PHOTO, (2); Hemini Shah (ran City &
State, Tampa & State); Atul Shah (ran City & State, Tampa & State); Hemini Shah
(ran Metro & State); Atul Shah (ran Metro & State)

                    Copyright 1998 Times Publishing Company


                              163 of 280 DOCUMENTS

                         St. Petersburg Times (Florida)

               August 8, 1998, Saturday, 0 South Pinellas Edition

Disabled immigrants face losing government assistance

BYLINE: KATHERINE PFLEGER

SECTION: NATIONAL; Pg. 3A

LENGTH: 605 words

DATELINE: WASHINGTON



Katrine Jensen visits 70 wards assigned to her in the Dade County  Guardianship
Program at least once a month. They all have different needs, but  one has been
on her mind in particular lately - a blind, mentally retarded man  who is scared
to be touched.

As of Sept. 1, Jensen will bring the man his last Supplemental Security  Income
check, a government allowance that pays for his basic necessities.  Under the
1996 Welfare Reform Act, he and 15,000 other disabled, blind or  elderly
immigrants will be dropped from the Social Security rolls - all but a  small
fraction unfairly, say critics of the law.

In theory, welfare was overhauled in part to stop illegal immigrants from
receiving federal aid. In practice, bureaucracy and cultural barriers have  made
it tough to implement the changes.

"They got their green cards in the '50s and '60s" and have lost the  paperwork,
said Josh Bernstein, policy analyst at the National Immigration  Forum. "It's
hard to find the proof. It's labor intensive. They may have  moved. INS records
aren't that good."

Many immigrants that could be impacted are legally in the U.S. and simply  don't
know how to prove it.

Burdened by language difficulties, these people receive scads of letters  from
government agencies, Bernstein said, and suffer from what he calls  "notice
fatigue."

Rep. E. Clay Shaw, R-Ft. Lauderdale, one of the authors of the welfare  reform
law, is also one of the lawmakers that last August gave the Social  Security
Administration an extra year to sift through a list of 22,000  immigrants losing
their Social Security benefits.

Though he says he is not happy about it, he introduced a bill this week  that
extends the benefits until March 31 and orders the Social Security
Administration to contact affected immigrants by November 15 to determine if
they qualify for the money, as much as $ 494 a month.

"We don't want to face prospect of people being kicked out of their  houses,"
Shaw said, "because Social Security didn't do their job."

In Florida, Gov. Lawton Chiles' office obtained a list of the 3,970  immigrants
in the state that could receive their last checks in 25 days. His  office gave
the names to Florida Legal Services in Miami, a non-profit  organization that is
trying to evaluate individual situations.

In the process, immigrant advocates have found people in the country  legally
and illegally who are mentally retarded, schizophrenic or have  Alzheimer's
disease. Some are afraid to go to the government because they fear  deportation.

"It's hard to get in touch with them, and it's harder to get them into  Social
Security," said Charles Elsesser, a lawyer with Florida Legal  Services.

Officials in Hillsborough County aren't seeking out the 180 immigrants  there
who may be affected, though the Health and Social Services Department is  taking
phone calls and answering questions from people who have received  notices that
their allowance will be discontinued.

For many, the loss of SSI may be just the beginning. In a few months, they
could be ineligible for Medicaid, a threat to some nursing home residents.

The Social Security Administration, for its part, insists that it is not  the
bad guy.

The administration "will make every effort to ensure that all eligible
individuals receive the benefits to which they are entitled," said  Commissioner
Kenneth Apfel.

Meanwhile, advocates of the elderly and disabled immigrants are left to  worry
and wait. "As a guardian, we want to do something," Jensen said. "We  don't want
to put these people out on the street."

LOAD-DATE: August 10, 1998

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                    Copyright 1998 Times Publishing Company


                              164 of 280 DOCUMENTS

                         St. Petersburg Times (Florida)

              August 12, 1998, Wednesday, 0 South Pinellas Edition

These immigrants deserve better

SECTION: EDITORIAL; EDITORIALS; Pg. 10A

LENGTH: 430 words



Time is running out for thousands of immigrants who are elderly, disabled, or
both, and dependent on federal assistance to pay for their basic necessities.
Thanks to decades of shoddy government record-keeping and a lack of political
will to correct a bureaucratic mess at the Immigration and Naturalization
Service, about 15,000 vulnerable residents soon may be forced to scrounge for
food. Others may be kicked out of nursing homes and left to fend for  themselves
on the streets. Congress should not let this happen.

The problem stems from a provision in the 1996 Welfare Reform Act that was
supposed to stop illegal immigrants from receiving federal aid. All but a  small
fraction of the immigrants slated to lose their Supplemental Security  Income
benefits on Sept. 1 are believed to be legal residents and eligible for  aid,
but they still may be dropped from the Social Security rolls because the
government can't find their green cards. Many arrived in this country during
the 1950s and 1960s, and neither they nor the government have the paperwork to
prove they are living here legally.

Many of the affected immigrants require constant care. Few, if any, are in  a
position to help themselves. Meanwhile, sloppy records at the INS are making  it
difficult to track down documents that could prove they are eligible for
assistance. It is urgent for Congress to pass a measure that extends SSI
benefits until the problem can be straightened out.

Under pressure from immigration advocates, U.S. Rep. E. Clay Shaw, R-Fort
Lauderdale, one of the authors of the welfare law, reluctantly introduced
legislation that would extend benefits until March 31. The bill also would
force the Social Security Administration to contact affected immigrants by  Nov.
15 to determine if they qualify for the assistance. Passage of the bill  should
be a priority, though the deadline should be flexible, so no one is  wrongly
removed from the rolls.

In Florida, Gov. Lawton Chiles has enlisted Florida Legal Services to help  the
estimated 3,970 immigrants here who are in danger of losing their  benefits.
Leaders in other states should follow his example.

Most of the immigrants who could lose their SSI benefits have lived in this
country for decades, worked for an honest wage and paid their taxes. Some even
served in the armed forces. Now, elderly and vulnerable, or suffering from
physical or mental illness, they face a future fraught with peril and
uncertainty. Congress should not allow this nightmare to materialize.

LOAD-DATE: August 12, 1998

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: EDITORIAL

                    Copyright 1998 Times Publishing Company


                              165 of 280 DOCUMENTS

                         St. Petersburg Times (Florida)

                           September 6, 1998, Sunday

No way to treat a friend

SECTION: PERSPECTIVE; EDITORIALS; Pg. 2D

LENGTH: 512 words



Citizens of the United States and Canada have long been proud of the open
nature of the 3,000-mile border that separates their countries. The relatively
free flow of people and commerce that historically has characterized the
U.S.-Canadian border is testament to a deep friendship grounded in shared
cultures and democratic principles.

Unfortunately, that border isn't always as friendly and open as it used to  be.
Business people, vacationers and seasonal residents tell of long and  demeaning
delays in crossing the border, or in attempting to conduct routine  activities
on the other side. Cars and suitcases are ransacked without cause.  Packages are
flagged. People once accustomed to a neighborly welcome have been  greeted by
agents exhibiting all the hospitality of the old East German border  patrols.

Most of the problems stem from the changes to U.S. immigration laws  approved by
Congress in 1996. The excesses of the law are well documented:  would-be
visitors denied entry on arbitrary grounds; longtime resident aliens  deported
for trivial paperwork mistakes; widespread abuse of power on the part  of border
inspectors and immigration bureaucrats.

Although most of the attention has focused on the law's effects on would-be
visitors and immigrants from the Middle East, Asia and Latin America, the
tightened restrictions also have had a corrosive effect along the  U.S.-Canadian
border. Not surprisingly, Canadian authorities have responded in  ways that are
making life increasingly difficult for Americans traveling north  for business
or pleasure.

Tensions will heighten further if Congress follows through on  implementation of
Section 110 of the 1996 immigration law, which requires  Canadians to fill out
intrusive and time-consuming entry/exit forms. Despite  complaints from Ottawa -
and from members of Congress representing Northern  states - the House will soon
consider lifting the moratorium on Section 110.  If that happens, the very
character of the U.S.-Canadian border - and of  broader U.S.-Canadian relations
- will be unnecessarily damaged.

Recent changes to U.S. immigration laws were an overreaction to concerns  over
terrorism and drug trafficking. While combating those threats should be a  top
national priority, Washington has instituted an indiscriminate crackdown  that
violates our most basic constitutional principles. Low-level employees of  the
Immigration and Naturalization Service have been empowered to act as judge  and
jury. Frequent visitors to the United States, with spotless records of
behavior, are being subjected to the same treatment as foreign nationals for
whom there is probable cause for suspicion.

That's no way to treat a lifelong friend. Canada and the United States have  a
long history of working together to solve their mutual problems. Congress
should be working with Canadian authorities to prevent our immigration laws
from being manipulated in ways that jeopardize the special bond that has long
marked U.S.-Canadian relations.

LOAD-DATE: September 8, 1998

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: EDITORIAL

                    Copyright 1998 Times Publishing Company


                              166 of 280 DOCUMENTS

                         St. Petersburg Times (Florida)

               October 4, 1998, Sunday, 0 South Pinellas Edition

At last unveiled, evidence falls short

BYLINE: SUSAN ASCHOFF

SECTION: NATIONAL; Pg. 1A

LENGTH: 2932 words

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, D.C.



Evidence deemed so sensitive it is kept secret while being used to jail or
deport dozens of U.S. residents as terrorists has proved, when revealed, to be
flimsy and bigoted, a review shows.

In cases across the United States, immigrants who have reared families and
taught college and fought as allies are being labeled terrorists, then jailed
indefinitely or barred from the country.

The proof of their treachery, the government says, is classified: Revealing  it
even to their attorneys would endanger national security.

Yet as pieces of secret evidence have come out over the past year, pried  loose
by increasing political pressure or court orders, the public has had its  first
chance to judge for itself. What it has seen, critics say, is not  evidence at
all, but accusations that would not stand up in any U.S. court.

The federal government is stamping "SECRET" on stacks of unanalyzed FBI  reports
rife with opinion, on hearsay without corroboration, on material as  innocuous
as newspaper clippings and as tainted as accusations from other  immigrants
trying to cut a deal for themselves.

Former CIA director James Woolsey calls the paucity of evidence in one case
"stunning."

Constitutional law expert David Cole, who has represented immigrants in a
half-dozen secret evidence cases, says he has not seen "a shred of evidence
that any of these individuals was engaged in any illegal activity."

What he sees, Cole says, is surveillance of free speech - government agents
spying on rallies, publishers and mosques because the U.S. government doesn't
like their politics.

A civic leader in Michigan has been fighting deportation for a decade  because
of secret evidence alleging terrorist activity that may be based  solely on his
attendance at a political rally 13 years ago.

Six Iraqis allied with the CIA to fight Saddam Hussein are jailed in  California
and, based on hearsay they are spies, face deportation to probable  execution.

A New Jersey retailer is accused of meeting with one of the World Trade  Center
bombers at his home, a lie he says comes from a vindictive ex-wife who  refuses
to answer questions in court.

"Not to put too fine a point on it," Cole says, "but it's a joke."

The use of such "evidence" alarms senators as ideologically diverse as  Edward
Kennedy and Jesse Helms. It prompts federal judges to toss it out  entirely. It
unites churches and mosques across the country to fight it,  including in Tampa,
where a college teacher has been jailed 16 months on  accusations of terrorism,
but no charges.

The public seesaws between its belief that all people, including  immigrants,
have rights and its fear of terrorism. These are not U.S.  citizens. Hint of
trouble? Kick them out.

But this country is better than that, says Woolsey, an attorney in the case  of
the six Iraqis in California. "The reason the United States is so worth
defending," he says, "is it operates its government and its politics in a  fair
and judicious manner."

On secret evidence cases, though, it is "ducking and weaving."

+++

  There are about two dozen current cases in which secret evidence has been
introduced by the FBI and Immigration and Naturalization Service, a tiny
fraction of the 300,000 immigration cases heard annually.

The immigrants are before the court because of expired student visas,  illegal
entry, to seek citizenship or asylum. The assertion they have ties to
terrorists is made to the immigration judge in private, without the immigrant
or his attorney present.

In all of the cases, including those in which evidence has been released, a
portion remains classified. The INS and the immigration judge cannot
declassify. Only the U.S. Department of Justice or the originating agency,  such
as the FBI, can do so.

The use of secret evidence, the government says, is legal and necessary.
Federal law enforcement agents and informants must be protected. The recent
bombings of two U.S. embassies in Africa and 259 dead are a brutal reminder of
the danger.

"The department recognizes what a serious step it is to provide secret
evidence" behind closed doors, says a senior Justice Department official,
speaking on condition he not be identified.

But, "when you're confronted with an alien who's here illegally and is  seeking
some sort of discretionary relief to stay in this country, the  inequities weigh
in the favor of the United States' security."

Critics say that creed has all the nobility of the McCarthy hunt for  Communists
in the 1950s. Those politics pilloried innocent people in the name  of national
security. Now comes a new bogeyman: Every known secret evidence  case targets
Arabs or Muslims.

Disgusted by the treatment, immigrant and civil rights advocates are  putting
pressure on Attorney General Janet Reno, who oversees the civil rights
division, the FBI and the INS, to balance security against democratic ideals.

"We want to make sure this information is being used only for legitimate
law-enforcement purposes," the senior Justice Department official says.  "There
are certain trouble spots in the world today. One of the real flash  points is
the Middle East."

+++

  Invited to come to the White House on May 8 as part of a delegation to
discuss Arab-American concerns with Deputy Attorney General Eric Holder, Imad
Hamad says he was as excited as a tourist with a VIP pass.

Some of his friends doubted he would get in. The INS has pursued Hamad's
deportation for 10 years. They say he is an associate of terrorists.

But he walked the halls of the nation's house without interference. "When  I got
there, I had a chill: I felt free - that nobody was after me."

A Palestinian refugee who lives in Dearborn, Mich., Hamad was arrested in  1982
in San Francisco, at a student sit-in to protest the Israeli invasion of
Lebanon. He has been butting against immigration roadblocks ever since. His
file has been lost. He has received threatening phone calls. The INS says he  is
a member of the Popular Front for the Liberation of Palestine.

Despite the government's introduction of secret evidence, Hamad won his  case.
On Oct. 1, 1997, immigration judge John Walsh ruled that the social  worker
deserves permanent residency, a step shy of citizenship. Deportation of  Hamad,
37, his wife and three children would be an extreme hardship, Walsh  said.
Nonetheless, the INS appealed.

As the paperwork again cycles through the system, Hamad was surprised in  June
to receive three pages of previously classified evidence attached to  government
filings. Though portions were blacked out, one uncensored paragraph  struck
Hamad: The Detroit FBI discontinued its investigation of him eight  years ago,
in June 1990.

"No information had been developed which would justify continued  investigation
of Hamad, as investigation failed to prove Hamad's activities on  behalf of the
PFLP were terrorist in nature," it read.

"It's part of the fun," Hamad says with resignation.

A U.S. resident 18 years, Hamad serves with U.S. attorneys and FBI  officials on
the steering committee of the Michigan Alliance Against Hate  Crimes. He is
regional director of the Washington-based American-Arab  Anti-Discrimination
Committee. Dozens of community leaders and law enforcement  officials fill his
immigration hearings.

The secret evidence Hamad has seen, some of it released during 1989  hearings,
includes reports of FBI agents photographing him moving furniture at
fund-raisers and wearing a T-shirt with the PFLP insignia. There are errors,  he
says, in basic facts such as where he was employed.

"It does not make sense," Hamad says. "It does not make sense at all."

+++

  Immigration law is so Byzantine that months may be spent crossing T's in
legal filings. When the case involves secret evidence, there is one
straightforward thing to do: Get attention - from members of congress, ACLU
attorneys, Ted Koppel.

The case involving six Iraqis got unprecedented publicity this summer when
former CIA director Woolsey signed on as an attorney and blasted the
government's use of secret evidence on Nightline and in newspapers.

The men, five Arabs and one Kurd known as the Iraqi 6, fought alongside the  CIA
against Saddam Hussein. When the opposition failed in 1996, the U.S.  government
airlifted them out with thousands of others. Their families were  resettled in
the United States. The six were jailed. In March, based on secret  evidence they
are Iraqi spies, Los Angeles immigration judge D.D. Sitgraves  ordered them
deported.

"It's pure Star Chamber," Woolsey says. "The whole idea that you can be
imprisoned indefinitely and sent back to be tortured and killed on evidence  you
can't see - they (INS) are administering an absolutely outrageous  procedure
here."

Woolsey hoped the top security clearance he retains would provide access to  the
evidence. It did not. But his public fury and a request for a briefing  with the
attorney general from Republican Sens. Trent Lott, Jesse Helms and  Orrin Hatch,
prompted the release of more than 500 pages of classified  evidence in July and
August.

It consists largely of uncorroborated notes from FBI agents who interviewed  the
airlifted immigrants at a Guam way station.

The Iraqis' attorneys found it trivial and frequently nonsensical. As  Woolsey
puts it, "It's not even evidence. It's suspicion."

An FBI agent who acknowledged he does not know the properties of the toxin
thallium concluded that one of the six lied when he said Hussein's agents  tried
to assassinate him by putting the rat poison in his soft drink. Safadin  Hassan
Al-Batat suffered blindness and bleeding, and two others died. The FBI  agent
concluded Al-Batat faked the poisoning or used thallium for  "recreational
purposes."

A physician in the Iraqi military was not believed because he told agents  he
did not cut off the ears of deserters, a purported Iraqi punishment. FBI  agents
said Adil Hadi Awadh worked in a military hospital, so he must have cut  off
ears.

A lieutenant who said he deserted the Iraqi military in 1994 was assigned  to
guard Scud missiles during the Gulf war. Ali Jahjoh Saleh said he did not
witness a launch. The FBI said he must have and is lying.

Perhaps more telling are the discriminatory asides included in the reports.

"I didn't like (Mohammad Jwer) Al-Ammary's whole demeanor when I was  talking to
him," wrote special agent and 20-year FBI veteran Mark Merfalen.  "He had this
kind of smug look.

"It's been my experience working with these people that they lie, they lie  an
awful lot."

Another agent, John Cosenza, wrote: "There is no guilt in the Arab world.  It's
only shame."

To their credit, Woolsey says, the agents noted that their reports were
incomplete. They were not authorized to look for corroboration or to clarify
conflicting statements taken from the dozens of immigrants interviewed at  Guam.

"They pointed that out to the immigration judge," Woolsey says. "Instead  of
flagging that as an issue and conducting an investigation to see who went  where
when, it goes into the hopper as one of those things that raises  questions" and
costs them asylum.

Portions of the released evidence are troubling. Other Iraqis accuse Ali  Yassin
Mohammed-Karim of lying about his relatives' ties to Iranian  intelligence to
get on the airlift. Two of the Iraqis' recounting of their  travels within Iraq
conflict with those of their wives.

Woolsey says he is not opposed to the use of secret evidence in some  instances.

"But if the government is seeking to send you back, or incarcerate you, at  the
very minimum you should have due process," he says. "Under no  circumstances
should (secret evidence) be used only against Muslims and  Arabs."

The hundreds of released pages provide a rare peek at the government's  proof in
such cases and, attorneys say, cast doubt on the legitimacy of all  secret
evidence.

"I have no reason to believe that what happened in the Iraqi case is that  much
different than what is happening in any other secret evidence case,"  says Niels
Frenzen, one of their attorneys.

The secrecy may protect nothing more, Frenzen says, than the government's
incompetence.

+++

   The manager of a New Jersey electronics store applied for U.S. residency
after marrying an American. Instead of refuge, Hany Kiareldeen was jailed as  an
associate of terrorists.

Since his arrest in March, the government has five times meted out  additional
details of its evidence, his attorney says. An unnamed informant  says that a
week before the World Trade Center attack, Kiareldeen met at his  home with one
of the convicted bombers, Nidal Ayyad. The FBI also says he  threatened the life
of the attorney general.

When the government specified a time frame for the alleged meeting,  Kiareldeen
produced rent receipts showing he did not live in the house then.  When told of
the threat, Kiareldeen asked, "Who is Janet Reno?"

Kiareldeen thinks it is his ex-wife, also facing deportation, who is making
accusations. She has refused to answer attorneys' questions.

"The real danger for INS is that if they had proof, they'd bring charges.  So
secret evidence is rumor," says his attorney, Regis Fernandez. "And once  you
bring it out into the open, the game's over."

In Tampa, a tenured professor at the University of South Florida has lived  in
the United States 23 years but was rejected for citizenship on secret  evidence.
In August 1997, two years after Sami Al-Arian filed a Freedom of  Information
request, he received 18 declassified pages from his immigration  file. All are
copies of newspaper stories.

The INS says it is just following Congress' orders.

"As a federal law enforcement agency, we have an obligation to present  (all)
evidence to the (immigration) court," INS spokesman Russ Bergeron says.

The problem, critics say, is that the government classifies everything with
little regard for accuracy or substance, then dumps the stack on an  immigration
judge with no opposing counsel there to rebut it.

Cole, the constitutional law expert, says the INS plays pieces of evidence  like
poker chips.

He represents Nasser Ahmed, an Egyptian jailed more than two years on  secret
evidence who faces arrest and torture if deported. Ahmed served as the
court-appointed paralegal to Sheik Omar Abdel Rahman, convicted in October  1995
of plotting to blow up buildings and bridges in New York. When Ahmed's
attorneys sought to free Ahmed in federal court, Cole says, the government
released a half-page of evidence - too little to aid Ahmed's attorneys but
enough to throw the case back into immigration court.

The INS does not want to go to federal court, says Cole, a law professor at
Georgetown University. "The only two times in the last decade this (secret
evidence) has been challenged in federal court, it has been ruled
unconstitutional."

Releasing secret evidence would appear to benefit the immigrant. Instead,  he
waits in jail for years while his case bounces from court to court. Many  give
up and leave the country.

+++

  As criticism of secret evidence mounted earlier this year, the Justice
Department began an in-house review of every pending case. The Iraqis got
hundreds of pages after review; others received a sentence or two.

Mazen Al-Najjar of Tampa got not one word of the secret evidence that has  kept
him jailed for 16 months. A former USF teacher and father of three, he  has only
a one-sentence summary stating his "association with the Palestinian  Islamic
Jihad."

"The only way you can win this," says his brother-in-law Sami Al-Arian,  the
professor who got the declassified newspaper clippings, "other than  through
political action, is through the courts. But it is so slow, so  unwieldy. It is
so, so difficult."

The government says Al-Najjar's work at a USF think tank founded by  Al-Arian
went to financing and fronting for Middle East terrorists. In 1995,  former
think tank member and USF teacher Ramadan Abdullah Shallah became head  of the
Palestinian Islamic Jihad.

Three years of intense federal investigation followed, but no criminal  charges
have been filed against either Al-Arian or Al-Najjar.

In May, 17 U.S. congressmen wrote to Reno opposing the use of secret  evidence.
Citing Al-Najjar's case, the lawmakers said deprivation of due  process is "an
act of extreme concern to us. Unless he is charged with a  crime and given a
fair opportunity to defend himself, he should be set free."

Sens. Spencer Abraham, R-Mich., chairman of the Subcommittee on  Immigration,
and Edward Kennedy, D-Mass., want a review of the procedure and  the
"disturbing" fact that only Arab immigrants are jailed on secret  evidence.

Those branded terrorists in secret evidence cases are refugees. Most are
Palestinians and have no country.

"We, as Arab-Americans, are looked upon as outsiders," says Imad Hamad,  the
Michigan civic leader. "Seeking equality in this country is no different  (for
us) than others who have gone through it before: African-Americans,  Jewish
people, the Chinese," he says.

Hamad is a patient man.

When he talked about injustice with leaders at the White House, he says he
found new hope.

"It strengthened my belief that nobody - nobody - can deprive me of the
American dream."

LOAD-DATE: October 6, 1998

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: COLOR PHOTO; BLACK AND WHITE PHOTO, (5); BLACK AND WHITE PHOTO, Detroit
News; James Woolsey; David Cole; Hany Kiareldeen; Sami Al-Arian; Mazen
Al-Najjar; Ali Yassin Mohammed-Karim, shown in 1997.; Imad Hamad, pictured in
September 1997 with daughters Sarah and Nadeen.

                    Copyright 1998 Times Publishing Company


                              167 of 280 DOCUMENTS

                         St. Petersburg Times (Florida)

              October 15, 1998, Thursday, 0 South Pinellas Edition

Germany to loosen curbs on foreigners

SOURCE: Compiled from Times Wires

SECTION: NATIONAL; WORLD IN BRIEF; Pg. 17A

LENGTH: 630 words

DATELINE: BONN, Germany; LAGOS, Nigeria; SHANGHAI, China; UNITED NATIONS;
JERUSALEM; OTTAWA



Declaring Germany "a country of immigrants," the incoming governing  partners
reached agreement Wednesday to ease citizenship requirements.

The change in the nation's 85-year-old citizenship law is the first major
policy shift resulting from the left's election victory last month.

Chancellor-elect Gerhard Schroeder's Social Democrats and their junior  partner,
the Greens, said they intend to give automatic citizenship to  German-born
children of foreigners for the first time, if one of their parents  has been
living in Germany since age 14.

Both sides also agreed on allowing dual citizenship and on shortening
foreigners' eligibility for naturalization to eight years from 15.

"It is a clear signal for integration," said Greens negotiator Kerstin  Mueller,
a domestic policy expert. "This government will recognize that  Germany is a
country of immigrants."

The changes will scrap the principle of a 1913 law that bases automatic
citizenship on German blood ties, not place of birth.

There are 7-million foreign residents in Germany, making up nearly 10  percent
of the population.

Nobel-winning author

returns to Nigeria

   LAGOS, Nigeria - Nobel Prize-winning author Wole Soyinka returned to  Nigeria
on Wednesday, four years after fleeing his homeland. Long one of the  most
outspoken critics of the military government, he was greeted by hundreds  of
singing supporters.

"Welcome our king, we have been waiting for you," the crowd of about 500  people
sang as they pressed toward him.

Soyinka, who said he was home on a short visit, appeared to try to speak to  the
crowd, but the noise and tumult made that impossible.

He met briefly with the family of Moshood Abiola, an opposition leader who  died
in custody in July. Soyinka told the family that they "are a source of
inspiration to Nigerians."

The writer, who fled Nigeria fearing an attack from the regime of the late
dictator, Gen. Sani Abacha, recently met in New York with the new military
ruler, Gen. Abdulsalami Abubakar, who urged him to return home.

The new junta recently dropped treason charges against Soyinka.

Taiwan, China diplomats

hold high-level meeting

   SHANGHAI, China - China and Taiwan held their highest level meeting in five
years Wednesday.

Koo Chen Fu and Wang Daohan, elder statesmen charged with shepherding
Taiwan-China ties in the absence of formal channels, hugged, smiled and said
the lapse since their first and only meeting in Singapore in 1993 gave them
much to talk about.

After their hourlong discussion, aides said the two noted that the  "peaceful
atmosphere" was conducive to frank talks.

But they also restated divisive positions. Koo urged Communist-run China to
learn from Taiwan's robust democracy. Wang demanded ambitious negotiations to
tackle reunification. China regards Taiwan as a renegade province.

Elsewhere . . .

  + UNITED NATIONS - For the seventh year in a row and by a record vote,
friends and foes of the United States on Wednesday endorsed a General Assembly
resolution calling for an end to the U.S. economic embargo against Cuba. The
vote was 157-2, with the United States and Israel voting no.

+ JERUSALEM - Five Arab youths have confessed to starting some of the  forest
fires in Israel this week to avenge police aggression against Arab
demonstrators, an official said Wednesday.

+ OTTAWA - Canada is using its first budget surplus since 1970 to reduce  the
national debt rather than cut taxes or boost spending. Finance Minister  Paul
Martin said the government came out ahead by $ 2.25-billion in the last  fiscal
year. The surplus has been applied to the national debt, which stood at  $
375-billion.

LOAD-DATE: October 15, 1998

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: DIGEST

                    Copyright 1998 Times Publishing Company


                              168 of 280 DOCUMENTS

                         St. Petersburg Times (Florida)

               October 19, 1998, Monday, 0 South Pinellas Edition

Guaranteed to offend Democrats, GOP alike

BYLINE: HOWARD TROXLER

SECTION: CITY & STATE; Pg. 1B

LENGTH: 637 words



There's a book out titled The 15 Biggest Lies In Politics (if this were a
review, I would now add, "St. Martin's, $ 22.95"). It is guaranteed to make  you
disagree along the way.

"These are the 15 lies we think are the most damaging to America," begin  the
authors, a Washington journalist named Major Garrett and a former  Democratic
member of Congress named Timothy J. Penny.

Without further ado, their list:

1. The Abortion Debate Matters. "No one is listening any more," they  write.
Most Americans are in the middle. The two extremes should come together  to
reduce abortions - unlikely, since they hate each other.

2. Gun Control Reduces Crime. The authors cite study after study from  various
universities (no, not funded by the NRA). Not only do gun-control laws  not
reduce crime; gun ownership does.

3. Religion and Politics Don't Mix. Why is it okay to have religious
involvement in the causes of civil rights or disarmament, but not social
issues? If you don't like the Christian Coalition's success in politics, then
outwork it.

4. Immigration Hurts America. The Pat Buchanans of the world love to paint  the
picture of menacing foreigners coming here to steal jobs. The truth is,  the
United States' immigration policy should be more focused on recruiting  skilled
and talented immigrants.

5. All Politicians Are Corrupt. Sure, there always is some corruption. But  the
authors argue that we have moved the yardstick to a ridiculous extreme:  "the
appearance of a potential conflict of interest."

6. Money Buys Elections. Money is like the gas in a race car - you can't  win
without it, but it's no guarantee of success. A look at trends shows that
voters' mood and prevailing national trends are far more decisive.

7. Fat Cats Are The Problem. In fact, the influence today of any one PAC is
much less than two decades ago - contribution limits have stayed the same  while
the cost of campaigning has skyrocketed. The authors argue for more  disclosure
instead of more limits.

8. The Budget Will Be Balanced by the Year 2002. President Clinton and  Congress
are taking credit for good luck without making any tough decisions.  If the
economy as much as hiccups, the deficits will return.

9. Social Security is a Sacred Government Trust. No, it isn't. It is a
government program just like any other. In the long run, we must either raise
payroll taxes even higher, cut benefits or privatize the system.

10. Medicare Works. Rampant fraud, bureaucracy and rigid central controls  are
more like it. But it is easier to play politics with Medicare than to make
tough decisions.

11. Tax Cuts Are Good. Well, actually, they can be. But not the ones being
handed out by the Republican Congress, which smack of the same "social
engineering" the Democrats loved.

12. Education - More Money Equals Better Results. It doesn't.

13. The Environment - It's Mother Earth or Mother Lode. Why is someone  either a
tree-hugger or a rape-and-pillager? The new Republican Congress  offended
mainstream America by trying to gut environmental laws;  environmentalists cling
desperately to a ridiculous EPA bureaucracy.

14. Republicans Believe in Smaller Government. This is easily disproved -  in
their first three years of full control of Congress, Republicans increased
government spending faster than in the last three Democratic years.

15. Democrats Are Compassionate. Oh, really? They keep pumping money into  the
increasingly hidebound, stale bureaucracy they created decades ago.
"Consequently, Democrats deliver mostly disappointment."

There's their list. I don't agree with all of their claims and bet you  don't
either. But it's fun that they offend Republicans and Democrats,  liberals and
conservatives alike. We need more of it.

LOAD-DATE: October 21, 1998

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DISTRIBUTION: CITY & STATE; METRO & STATE; TAMPA & STATE

TYPE: COLUMN

                    Copyright 1998 Times Publishing Company


                              169 of 280 DOCUMENTS

                         St. Petersburg Times (Florida)

                          October 21, 1998, Wednesday

BYLINE: CATHERINE FLAHERTY

SECTION: NEIGHBORHOOD TIMES; FOCUS ON VOLUNTEERS; Pg. 14

LENGTH: 239 words



The Women's American ORT, or Organization for Educational Resources and
Technological training, supports vocational and technical training for Jews
around the world. Since its founding, the ORT program has assisted Jewish
refugees and immigrants in adjusting to their new homes. ORT's network of
schools and programs provides education and training for the high-tech
workplace including fashion design, computerized accounting, film and TV
programming and international business skills.

Women's American ORT also works in the United States to improve public
education, to promote literacy, to combat anti-Semitism and to support women's
rights.

The St. Petersburg Chapter of Women's American ORT will have a general  meeting
Nov. 17, at 12:30 p.m. at the St. Pete Beach City Hall Legion room,  7701 Boca
Ciega Drive. Officer Robert Ortiz of the St. Petersburg Police  Department will
present a program on personal safety tips. Guests are welcome.

Call Eve Sessions at 345-0900.

- Send information at least 10 days in advance to Focus on Volunteers, c/o
Catherine Flaherty, Neighborhood Times, P.O. Box 1121, St. Petersburg, FL
33731. We also will accept black-and-white photographs, but if an event is
particularly newsworthy, let us know well in advance, and we may send a staff
photographer. If you have any questions, call Catherine at 893-8215 or e-mail
to flahertysptimes.com.

LOAD-DATE: October 22, 1998

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: COLUMN

                    Copyright 1998 Times Publishing Company


                              170 of 280 DOCUMENTS

                         St. Petersburg Times (Florida)

                            October 25, 1998, Sunday

Denying rights to some can hurt all

SECTION: PERSPECTIVE; LETTERS; Pg. 2D

LENGTH: 1394 words



Kudos to Bill Maxwell (again!) for his Oct. 18 column Migrant workers live in
dread, .

Unfortunately, most people reading the column have nothing to fear from the
Immigration and Naturalization Service and will say, "So what?"

Years ago in Texas, when my son was only 13, he stayed home from school ill  one
day. In the middle of the morning I got a panicked phone call from him  that
some man was standing at the front door, hammering on the door and  yelling. He
couldn't see who it was.

I was about to call the police on my second phone line when the intruder
unlocked the front door and stepped into my apartment and started yelling at  my
son. I nearly had heart failure.

This intruder was a police officer, who proceeded to berate my son for not
opening the door to him. This officer was looking for illegal immigrants and
without a warrant opened the door of my apartment, stepped inside and began
yelling at my son, who was under strict orders to open that door to no one.

Later I complained to the police department and was told, "the door was
unlocked." Well, it wasn't, but that still wouldn't give the officer the  right
to enter without a warrant.

So what? I'll tell you so what. My family, all of us, are citizens of this
country. We are white, the most protected class in America. But our
constitutional rights were trampled on because we, as a society, refuse to
accord those same rights to immigrants and people of color. That officer did
what he did because he believed us to be "illegals."

Wake up, folks. If we take those rights away from illegals, we're next in  line
to lose them. It can happen to you.

Sue Civil-Brown, Clearwater

Deterring the criminals

      The small article from the Times wire services on 2A of the Oct. 12
paper, More crime in Britain than in U.S., study finds, caught my eye.

I have often been informed by several of my British friends that the reason
there is so much crime in the United States is the availability of firearms. I
am not really glad that muggings, car thefts, burglary and robbery have risen
in the British Isles, as I do not wish misfortune on anyone. However, I find  it
interesting that these crimes are on the rise, especially since it follows  so
rapidly on the heels of the recent changes in British law that have almost
completely disarmed the populace. Perhaps after a few years of these kinds of
statistics the British public will call again for the services of Messrs.  Smith
and Wesson and their local counterparts.

It has always been my contention that while many criminals are not well
educated, they are certainly not all stupid. They can recognize the
susceptibility of an unarmed and defenseless prey, which is why in and around
our local international airports there are so many unfortunate incidents
involving recently arrived tourists. It doesn't take a brain surgeon to  realize
that if a person has just debarked from an aircraft, they are unarmed,  probably
unaccustomed to their locale and, even more important, they are very  likely to
have

substantial assets on their person.

I have no doubt that in Britain the same kind of calculation as to the  chances
of a homeowner being able to defend himself have been made. Now the  results of
the ill-conceived disarming of the population are going to become  apparent to
all but the most rabid, knee-jerk, anti-gun advocates. I know that  I am much
safer when the criminal element has to consider the possibility that  I am armed
and, more to the point, ready, willing and able to defend myself,  my home and
my family from intruders. It is not so much that I have a weapon  in my home and
that I have had some training in its use as it is the perceived  possibility of
its presence.

Charles Jensen, Lecanto

Armed man not a victim

      Re: Officials searching for kidnappers, Oct. 16.

According to your story on the robbery and kidnapping in Safety Harbor
recently, before the robbers went to the victims' house, they were scared away
from a neighbor's house because they saw he was armed with a gun. Your story
also mentioned a National Rifle Association sticker on his front door. This
man, in my opinion, is a great American.

Had the robbers shot and killed their victims, your editorial page would  have
been filled with stories chastising the NRA and calling for strict gun  control.
But if gun ownership was illegal, the neighbor in this story would  have been
forced to give up his gun, and the robbers probably would still have  had
theirs. The neighbor obviously would now also be among the victims.

This tragic story is an excellent example for those who question whether  more
guns in the hands of responsible citizens make our society safer or more
dangerous. I'm not a member of the NRA but as a Libertarian, I, too, defend  the
right of all Americans to keep and bear arms, as protected under the
Constitution. I hope every law-abiding citizen of this community follows the
lead set by this neighbor and buys a gun to defend his family and property. If
so, I'll feel much safer walking in my neighborhood at night.

James Bennett, Safety Harbor

Why let Gingrich off?

      Re: Charges against Gingrich dropped, Oct. 11.

Where is the hue and cry from the media? The speaker of the House  repeatedly
allowed official House business as important as developing the  legislative
agenda to be done by non-government persons. He also admitted he  made
inaccurate statements to the investigating ethics committee. Is that not  lying?

Now the ethics committee has dropped the remaining charges as they say  these
problems no longer exist in his office. The speaker says, "It ends a  chapter.
Let's go on to other things." Eighty-three of 84 charges were  dropped.

May they be so understanding with President Clinton and remember that  although
the "moral coalition" has deep pockets and big mouths, it is only a  small
portion of "we the people."

Emma Werst, Kenneth City

Enough enoughs

   We have the best system of government in the world, so why not let it work
as it should and stop whining and complaining that "I've had enough of the
Clinton and Lewinsky inquiry"?

Frankly, I've had enough of listening to people say that they have had  enough.

Enough already!

John R. Loiacona, Dade City

Religion out of place

      I have been a subscriber of the St. Petersburg Times for almost a
half-century. But in the past few years I have become somewhat disappointed in
the Times format. Each morning I look forward to the current news, the
editorial page and letters to the editor. Many times in the past few years the
front page is mainly covered with either football or baseball. Isn't that why
newspapers have a sports section?

This past Sunday morning was the last straw. One-quarter of the front page,
three-quarters of page 5A and four full pages devoted to religion and not even
a half-page of letters to the editor.

Shouldn't religion be assigned to a religion section and news to the news
section?

Eugene H. Beals, St. Petersburg

A wonderful change

      As a long-time subscriber to your paper, I want to take this opportunity
to thank and congratulate you for your wonderful coverage of the Billy Graham
Crusade. I think it was wonderful that you devoted so much space for this
event. It is uplifting to see such wide coverage of such an uplifting event.

It is a wonderful change after reading so much of all the degrading events  that
happen in our city. Thanks again and keep up the good work. God bless  you.

Gerald F. Porter, St. Petersburg

Meters abroad

      Re: Parking meters.

I have just returned from three weeks in France and Spain. If I had a  dollar
for every meter I saw, same as ours here in St. Petersburg, my trip  would have
been free.

The thing is that no one I saw had any problem with these meters, which  leads
me to wonder: Are we stupid? Can we not read?

Watching Frenchmen and Frenchwomen, as well as Spaniards, handle them with
aplomb and speed, I hung my head in shame and told no one where I was from.

Henry Kamerling, St. Petersburg

LOAD-DATE: October 27, 1998

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: LETTER

                    Copyright 1998 Times Publishing Company


                              171 of 280 DOCUMENTS

                         St. Petersburg Times (Florida)

                          November 11, 1998, Wednesday

League pitches a home run for immigrants

BYLINE: CHASE SQUIRES

SECTION: CITRUS TIMES; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 622 words

DATELINE: DADE CITY



Most Sundays, in a quiet county park outside town, dozens of men and boys get
together to celebrate an American pastime with a foreign twist.

The Mexican Baseball League draws immigrants from across West Central  Florida
for weekly games in an independent league that manages to stay alive  from
season to season even without the support of local governments, legions  of fans
or a mountain of rules and officials.

In its own quiet way, the league has persevered, from a rocky on-and-off  start
12 years ago to regular, organized seasons beginning in 1995.

"We pretty much do it without a budget, but we're here because everyone  likes
to play," league president Albert Garza said. "It's a sport we all  enjoy.
Everyone has played baseball at one time or another in their life, so  we can
all get together and enjoy the game, and when we're playing, the only  thing
that matters is the game."

The league includes five teams - with players ranging from 14 to 60 - from  Dade
City, Plant City and Mascotte. Most players wear uniforms, but some  don't. Most
players are from Mexico or Central America, but some aren't.

"We don't say anyone can't play," Garza said. "If a coach likes you, if  you can
play, if he wants you on the team, that's it. You don't have to be  from Mexico
or even speak Spanish."

On a recent Sunday morning, about 24 players of diverse age and skill  shagged
fly balls, took batting practice and skipped grounders to one another  on the
sandy infield at John S. Burks County Park.

Players shouted to each other in Spanish, sprinkled with English baseball  terms
like "playoffs" and "world series" that don't translate easily.

Supporters have struggled to keep the league alive without a dedicated park  or
reserved training times.

The old Dade City ballfield, where they played until this summer, was
eliminated to make room for a retention pond for a new county administration
building. At Burks Park, play is often interrupted when county-sanctioned
leagues take over the fields.

"It's embarrassing," Garza said. "We'll have people from other cities  here to
play, and we don't have a field. We have to wait for some league to  finish
practicing."

All that could change if Dade City is successful in its bid for a state  grant
that would help build a new city ballfield off 14th Street.

The new field could be a couple years in the future, but supporters of the
Mexican league said it is important to keep their games going until then.

"This is something positive we can do together," Garza said. "You never  hear
anything positive about "Mexican Joe.' It's always negative. This, here,  is
positive, this is what we should see in the paper. "Mexican Joe hit three  home
runs,' "Mexican Joe pitched a perfect game.' "

Angie Herrera, area coordinator of the Dade City RCMA migrant center, said  the
long-running league is also a wake-up call for area residents.

"This isn't just about migrant workers anymore," she said. "We live  here.
People have bought houses. This is their home, now. They are residents,  not
migrants."

Some of the teams enjoy regular sponsorship from local businesses,  including a
Mexican grocery and a flower shop. Somehow, with gifts and team  registration
fees and some money out-of-pocket, the league stays alive, Garza  said.

Herrera said the growing population of Spanish-speaking residents in east  Pasco
and other Florida cities is here to stay.

"We're not going anywhere," she said.

The league usually plays three "seasons" a year, with playoffs and a
championship game, followed by awards of trophies for top teams and players.

The league's all-star game is set for noon Sunday at Burks Park.

LOAD-DATE: November 11, 1998

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DISTRIBUTION: CITRUS TIMES

GRAPHIC: BLACK AND WHITE PHOTO, DAN McDUFFIE, (2); Angela Moreno, whose husband
plays for the Indians in the Mexican Baseball League, records a game at Burks
Park.; Gustavo Lara, Julio Rodriguez, Jesus Camarena, Jorge Garcia, Arnulfo
Gonzalez and David Hernandez recently wait for the next Mexican Baseball League
game at John S. Burks County Park in Dade City.

                    Copyright 1998 Times Publishing Company


                              172 of 280 DOCUMENTS

                         St. Petersburg Times (Florida)

                          November 12, 1998, Thursday

Immigrants join for love of the game

BYLINE: CHASE SQUIRES

SECTION: PASCO TIMES; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 659 words

DATELINE: DADE CITY



(ran PC edition of PT)

Most Sundays, in a quiet county park outside town, dozens of men and boys  get
together to celebrate an American pastime with a foreign twist.

The Mexican Baseball League draws immigrants from across West Central  Florida
for weekly games in an independent league that manages to stay alive  from
season to season even without the support of local governments, legions  of fans
or a mountain of rules and officials.

In its own quiet way, the league has persevered, from a rocky on-and-off  start
12 years ago to regular, organized seasons beginning in 1995.

"We pretty much do it without a budget, but we're here because everyone  likes
to play," league president Albert Garza said. "It's a sport we all  enjoy.
Everyone has played baseball at one time or another in their life, so  we can
all get together and enjoy the game, and when we're playing, the only  thing
that matters is the game."

The league includes five teams - with players ranging from 14 to 60 - from  Dade
City, Plant City and Mascotte. Most players wear uniforms, but some  don't. Most
players are from Mexico or Central America, but some aren't.

"We don't say anyone can't play," Garza said. "If a coach likes you, if  you can
play, if he wants you on the team, that's it. You don't have to be  from Mexico
or even speak Spanish."

On an a recent Sunday morning, about 24 players of diverse age and skill
shagged fly balls, took batting practice and skipped grounders to one another
on the sandy infield at John S. Burks County Park.

Players shouted to each other in Spanish, sprinkled with English baseball  terms
like "playoffs" and "world series" that don't translate easily.

Supporters have struggled to keep the league alive without a dedicated park  or
reserved training times.

The old Dade City ballfield, where they played until this summer, was
eliminated to make room for a retention pond for a new county administration
building. At Burks Park, play is often interrupted when county-sanctioned
leagues take over the fields.

"It's embarrassing," Garza said. "We'll have people from other cities  here to
play, and we don't have a field. We have to wait for some league to  finish
practicing."

All that could change if Dade City is successful in its bid for a state  grant
that would help build a new city ballfield off 14th Street.

The new field could be a couple years in the future, but supporters of the
Mexican league said it is important to keep their games going until then.

"This is something positive we can do together," Garza said. "You never  hear
anything positive about "Mexican Joe.' It's always negative. This, here,  is
positive, this is what we should see in the paper. "Mexican Joe hit three  home
runs,' "Mexican Joe pitched a perfect game.' "

Angie Herrera, area coordinator of the Dade City RCMA migrant center, said  the
long-running league is also a wake-up call for area residents.

"This isn't just about migrant workers anymore," she said. "We live  here.
People have bought houses. This is their home, now. They are residents,  not
migrants."

Some of the teams enjoy regular sponsorship from local businesses,  including a
Mexican grocery and a flower shop. Somehow, with gifts and team  registration
fees and some money out-of-pocket, the league stays alive, Garza  said.

Herrera said the growing population of Spanish-speaking residents in east  Pasco
and other Florida cities is here to stay.

"We're not going anywhere," she said.

The league usually plays three "seasons" a year, with playoffs and a
championship game, followed by awards of trophies for top teams and players.

The league's all-star game is set for noon Sunday at Burks Park.

- Chase Squires covers east Pasco courts and the communities of Dade City, San
Antonio and Saint Leo. He can be reached at (352) 521-5757, ext. 27. Send
e-mail to squiressptimes.com.

LOAD-DATE: November 13, 1998

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DISTRIBUTION: PASCO TIMES; HERNANDO TIMES

GRAPHIC: COLOR PHOTO, DAN McDUFFIE, (2); BLACK AND WHITE PHOTO, DAN McDUFFIE,
(2); Angela Moreno, whose husband plays for the Indians in the Mexican Baseball
League, records a game at Burks Park. (ran PT); Gustavo Lara, Julio Rodriguez,
Jesus Camarena, Jorge Garcia, Arnulfo Gonzalez and David Hernandez wait for a
recent game at John S. Burks County Park in Dade City. (ran PT); Angela Moreno
records a game at Burks Park. (ran HT); Gustavo Lara, Julio Rodriguez, Jesus
Camarena, Jorge Garcia, Arnulfo Gonzalez and David Hernandez wait for a recent
game at John S. Burks County Park. (ran HT)

                    Copyright 1998 Times Publishing Company


                              173 of 280 DOCUMENTS

                         St. Petersburg Times (Florida)

              December 11, 1998, Friday, 0 South Pinellas Edition

Al-Najjar case may finally see resolution

BYLINE: SUSAN ASCHOFF

SECTION: CITY & STATE; Pg. 1B

LENGTH: 676 words

DATELINE: TAMPA



A Tampa man jailed over accusations of terrorism likely will be allowed to
leave the country, a high-ranking attorney in the U.S. Justice Department told
the man's supporters.

Mazen Al-Najjar, his wife and three daughters want to move to Guyana in  South
America. Negotiations with the U.S. government began in earnest  Wednesday and
are continuing, Al-Najjar's attorney, Luis Coton, said Thursday.

"There appears to be a reasonable probability of having him depart prior  to
Ramadan," a month of fasting and prayer for Muslims beginning Dec. 19,  Coton
said. The family has expressed concern that the government will drag its  feet
and prolong Al-Najjar's 19-month imprisonment.

Coton said he spoke with John Morton, counselor to the deputy attorney  general.
Morton is familiar with the case and seemed willing to aid  Al-Najjar's timely
departure, Coton said.

Issues still to be addressed with attorneys for U.S. Immigration and
Naturalization include the length of time Al-Najjar will be barred from
re-entry and the withdrawal of his deportation appeal.

Al-Najjar and his wife, Fedaa, were ordered deported on May 13, 1997, on
expired visas, a common violation of immigration laws.

But Al-Najjar's case is far from typical.

Al-Najjar has lived in the United States almost 20 years but drew the  scrutiny
of INS and FBI agents in 1995.

A former employee of a University of South Florida-affiliated think tank,  where
Al-Najjar also worked, turned up as head of the Palestinian Islamic  Jihad.
Al-Najjar was arrested on the visa violation, then denied bail due to  secret
evidence from the government alleging his ties to the Jihad.

His case has been debated by national civil rights activists and U.S.  senators,
and reviewed by Deputy Attorney General Eric Holder.

"'I believe Mr. Al-Najjar is so much an embarrassment to the U.S.  government
they might be willing to assist with his transportation" out of  the country,
said Richard Condon, a member of the Hillsborough County citizens  group HOPE.

HOPE members met with Justice Department officials April 15 in Washington,
D.C., to seek Al-Najjar's freedom, or the release of the evidence used against
him. They got neither.

Wednesday they spoke by phone with Morton, asking his help in the family's
departure, Condon said.

The former University of South Florida Arabic teacher is one of about two  dozen
immigrants detained across the country on accusations of ties to  terrorists.
The information in each case is presented by federal agents to the  immigration
judge in chambers and not shared with the immigrant or his  attorney.

Most of the men are denied bail as security risks, and some have been  jailed
three years without charges.

Al-Najjar and the others, almost all Arab and many of them Palestinian, say
they are victims of racial and religious prejudice. Their rights to free  speech
and due process are being denied, they say.

While the cause is still righteous, says Al-Najjar's wife, Fedaa, it is  useless
for her husband to sit in jail for as long as a decade while his case  winds
through the courts and his young daughters grow up without him.

"The case is not moving up" from immigration courts into federal courts,  where
constitutional issues can be examined.

"Look at the other people. They're all still in jail. It's wasting your  life
for nothing," she said. "It doesn't give you any hope."

The family will go to Guyana because they have obtained permission to enter  and
work there, she says. Few countries will take Palestinians.

Her eldest daughter, 10-year-old Yara, cried for two days at the prospect  of
leaving her friends and school, her mother says. She and her sisters were  born
in the United States and are U.S. citizens.

For Mrs. Al-Najjar, rootlessness is nothing new.

"I lived in Saudi Arabia until I was 23, then 11 years here, and now to  Guyana.
What will be the fourth country?" she said.

"I feel it is the journey of a Palestinian, with the final departure,  death."

LOAD-DATE: December 11, 1998

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DISTRIBUTION: CITY & STATE; METRO & STATE; TAMPA & STATE

GRAPHIC: COLOR PHOTO, (2); Mazen Al-Najjar, (ran CITY & STATE, METRO & STATE);
Mazen Al-Najjar, (ran TAMPA & STATE)

                    Copyright 1998 Times Publishing Company


                              174 of 280 DOCUMENTS

                         St. Petersburg Times (Florida)

             January 05, 1999, Tuesday, 4 State / Suncoast Edition

Aid to neighbors fulfills Chiles wish

SOURCE: Compiled from Wire Reports

SECTION: METRO & STATE; AROUND THE STATE; Pg. 5B

LENGTH: 645 words

DATELINE: TALLAHASSEE; GAINESVILLE; JACKSONVILLE; PARCHMAN, Mass.



On what would have been Lawton Chiles' last day as governor, his top immigration
aide on Monday announced plans to help Florida's hurricane-hit neighbors in the
Caribbean and Central America.   "The governor discussed doing this before the
end of his term," Mark Schlakman said a day before Gov.-elect Jeb Bush was
scheduled to take office.   A budget transfer that became final Monday shifts $
200,000 in federal money Florida has for immigration programs to the
International Volunteer Corps, an organization run by the Florida Association of
Voluntary Agencies for Caribbean Action, which sends private and government
experts to Florida's neighboring nations.   Now there will be more volunteers to
help the countries devastated by Hurricanes Georges and Mitch.   Georges killed
617 people in September when it battered Haiti, the Dominican Republic, Cuba,
Puerto Rico and the Virgin Islands. A month later, Hurricane Mitch killed an
estimated 10,000 people and caused massive flood damage in Honduras, Nicaragua
and neighboring countries.15-year-old held in fatalshooting behind nightclub
GAINESVILLE - A 15-year-old boy has been charged with killing a man behind a
nightclub after a dispute over $ 40 and cigars, police said.   Kareem Jamal
Robinson, 15, turned himself in to deputies a day after allegedly shooting
Delvin Carnell Carey, 20, on New Year's Eve behind the Village Traffic.
Robinson turned himself in about 1 a.m. Saturday. He was charged with murder and
taken to Alachua Regional Juvenile Detention Center.   State attorney Rod Smith
said he hasn't decided whether to try Robinson as an adult. Court sticks with
rulingvoiding tobacco damages   JACKSONVILLE - An appeals court has denied a
rehearing on a decision that tossed out a $ 750,000 verdict won by a smoker more
than two years ago against Brown & Williamson Tobacco Corp.   The 1st District
Court of Appeal in Tallahassee denied the motion for a new hearing sought by
Grady Carter on Dec. 31.   "It was kind of expected," Carter, 68, of Orange Park
said Monday. "We are going to take it on to the (Florida) Supreme Court."   The
1996 verdict in Jacksonville was only the second time in 40 years of
anti-smoking litigation that a tobacco company was ordered to pay damages.
Carter sued Brown & Williamson, blaming it for the lung cancer he developed
after smoking for 44 years. A Jacksonville jury ruled that the cigarettes were a
defective product and that their makers were negligent for not warning people of
the danger.   But in June, the appeals court ruled 3-0 that the lawsuit "was
filed more than four years after Grady Carter knew or should have known . . .
that he had a smoking-related disease." And even if Carter had sued on time, the
appeals court said, the verdict would have been reversed because of a 1969
federal law that bars lawsuits that argue the wording of the cigarette warning
label is inadequate.Slain death row inmatealso had Florida conviction  PARCHMAN,
Miss. - A fellow death row inmate on Monday fatally stabbed Donald Leroy Evans,
who once confessed to dozens of murders and led police in several states on
fruitless searches for victim's bodies, authorities said.   In July 1995, Evans
pleaded guilty in Fort Lauderdale to the 1985 killing of Ira Jean Smith. He
received a life sentence.   "We don't mourn him. We simply close his file," said
Harrison County District Attorney Cono Caranna, who prosecuted Evans in the 1991
rape and strangulation of a 10-year-old girl abducted in Gulfport. He was
sentenced to death after a 1993 trial.   Evans, 41, was attacked at the
Mississippi State Penitentiary with a makeshift knife while being led back to
his cell after a shower, prison officials said. Jimmy Mack, the inmate who
allegedly stabbed him, was being taken to the shower at the time.- Wire reports

LOAD-DATE: January 5, 1999

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: DIGEST

                    Copyright 1999 Times Publishing Company


                              175 of 280 DOCUMENTS

                         St. Petersburg Times (Florida)

             January 13, 1999, Wednesday, 0 South Pinellas Edition

The cost of citizenship will increase on Friday

SOURCE: Compiled from Times Wires

SECTION: NATIONAL; IN BRIEF; Pg. 4A

LENGTH: 552 words



Effective Friday, the fee for filing a citizenship application is more than
doubling to $ 225 from $ 95.   The increase comes even as the Immigration and
Naturalization Service struggles with large backlogs that have some applicants
waiting more than two years for their paperwork to clear.   In proposing the
increase last year, INS Commissioner Doris Meissner said it wouldn't take effect
until her agency had made progress in reducing the backlog and speeding
processing.   Although the backlog remains at 1.8-million cases, near its record
of 1.9-million, INS officials said they are making progress. The national
average wait stood at 23 months as of December, down from the 27-month average
at the start of 1998.   Some immigrant advocates say the progress is not
occurring fast enough.   "There's certainly a lot of frustration in immigrant
communities that services appear not to have gotten substantially better and the
fee is going up dramatically," said Cecilia Munoz, vice president of the
National Council of La Raza.   The INS, which processed 1.6-million citizenship
applications in 1997, saw the number of applications dip last year to 771,000,
according to INS spokeswoman Elaine Komis. This year, the agency estimates
700,000 people will seek to become naturalized citizens.   The surge in
citizenship requests in 1996 and 1997 was driven in large measure by changes in
federal law denying welfare and other benefits to non-citizens.   "We think that
we've pretty much hit the peak, but we never know," Komis said.    People
seeking to beat the citizenship fee increases must act quickly. The INS must
have received those applications in the mail by Thursday, Komis said.Clinton
renominates Hormel as ambassador   President Clinton has renominated James
Hormel as ambassador to Luxembourg, and a White House official said Tuesday the
administration hopes fairness will prevail in the new Congress so he can be
approved.   The Senate last year refused to vote on the nomination after several
conservative Republicans accused Hormel of promoting homosexual views. The White
House accused lawmakers of prejudice.   Hormel, who is gay, was approved by the
Senate Foreign Relations Committee, but Senate Majority Leader Trent Lott,
R-Miss., didn't allow his nomination to come to the floor in the face of
scattered GOP objections.   Barry Toiv, a White House spokesman, expressed
confidence Hormel would be approved by the full Senate this year because a
majority back the 66-year-old San Francisco philanthropist and heir to the
Hormel Meat Co.Hubbell wants Starr'sindictment dismissed   Presidential friend
Webster Hubbell is seeking dismissal of a new indictment by prosecutor Kenneth
Starr, arguing that the case cannot be brought because of a 1994 deal
prosecutors struck with him.   The former associate attorney general is accused
in a 15-count indictment of covering up his and Hillary Rodham Clinton's roles
in the fraud-riddled Arkansas land development, Castle Grande.   His attorneys
said in court papers this week that six of the charges against him are invalid
because of a 4-year-old plea agreement in which Hubbell admitted defrauding the
Rose Law Firm - where Hubbell and Mrs. Clinton were partners - and its clients
of at least $ 394,000.

LOAD-DATE: January 13, 1999

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: DIGEST

                    Copyright 1999 Times Publishing Company


                              176 of 280 DOCUMENTS

                         St. Petersburg Times (Florida)

               February 04, 1999, Thursday, 2 Late Tampa Edition

Woman admits faking forms

BYLINE: LARRY DOUGHERTY

SECTION: TAMPA & STATE; Pg. 3B

LENGTH: 356 words

DATELINE: TAMPA



The woman says she was paid to falsify forms so aliens could get Social Security
numbers to get jobs in resort hotels.

A 37-year-old St. Pete Beach woman has admitted accepting money to help more
than 100 aliens apply for fraudulent Social Security numbers.

Grazyna Nowak, who is also known as Grace Nowak, helped produce the fraudulent
paperwork, had the aliens driven to a Social Security Administration office in
Pinellas Park and helped them make false applications, according to a plea
agreement filed in federal court Tuesday.

Other court documents show that some Eastern European immigrants were using the
false Social Security numbers to work as maids and dishwashers in local resort
hotels.

Each fraudulent number cost the immigrants between $ 600 and $ 800, court
records state.

Nowak is pleading guilty to one count of making false Immigration and
Naturalization Service documents, which carries a maximum penalty of 10 years in
prison, and one count of furnishing false information to the Social Security
Administration, which carries a maximum five years.

Her actual sentence on the INS count alone could be two years in prison,
according to federal sentencing guidelines.

No sentencing date has been set.

Nowak's address, according to court records, is 453 85th Ave. in St. Pete Beach.

At the time of her arrest in October, Nowak worked for International Travel &
Consulting at 447 Corey Ave. in St. Pete Beach, court records show.

While working out of the business, Nowak provided translators and altered INS
documents to help Eastern European aliens get Social Security numbers for
employment purposes, according to the arrest affidavit filed against Nowak by an
investigator for the Social Security Administration.

Nowak worked her fraud, she admits in the plea agreement, by preparing false
I-94 forms - the INS departure record that is stapled into the passports of
visitors to this country.

An altered I-94 that fraudulently declared an alien had INS work authorization,
when he or she in fact did not, could be used to obtain a Social Security
number, according to Nowak's arrest affidavit.


LOAD-DATE: February 4, 1999

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DISTRIBUTION: TAMPA & STATE; CITY & STATE; METRO & STATE

GRAPHIC: BLACK AND WHITE PHOTO; Grazyna Nowak, aka Grace Nowak (ran CITY &
STATE, TAMPA & STATE)

                    Copyright 1999 Times Publishing Company


                              177 of 280 DOCUMENTS

                         St. Petersburg Times (Florida)

               March 11, 1999, Thursday, 0 South Pinellas Edition

Pirates' Guillen cleared to enter U.S.

SOURCE: Compiled from Wire Reports

SECTION: SPORTS; AROUND THE NL; Pg. 7C

LENGTH: 461 words

DATELINE: BRADENTON



Jose Guillen's visa waiver was approved by the U.S. State Department, and the
Pirates outfielder might arrive at spring training as early as tonight.

Pittsburgh owner Kevin McClatchy had asked Sen. Rick Santorum to help Guillen
regain his visa.

"As soon as Jose gets the visa in his hands, our hope is he'll be on the next
flight here," Pirates general manager Cam Bonifay said Wednesday.

Guillen remained on the island for three weeks, missing the start of spring
training, because U.S. immigration officials questioned the validity of a
marriage license he presented before trying to return to the United States.

After an investigation, the Immigration and Naturalization Service refused
Monday to reinstate Guillen's visa.

"There has been a question about Jose misrepresenting himself in documents,"
McClatchy said. "But this is a 22-year-old kid who recently lost his father. He
might not have had the guidance that a normal 22-year-old would have. He might
have made some mistakes, though I don't think they were intentional."

D'BACK INDICTED IN CRASH: An Arizona minor-league pitcher was indicted on a
manslaughter charge in connection with a drunken driving accident that killed a
teammate. Pima County (Ariz.) authorities said John Rosengren, 26, could face
seven to 21 years in prison if convicted for recklessly causing the death of
former major-league pitcher Ken Robinson, 29, who was a passenger when
Rosengren's car overturned Feb. 28.

GARTH BACK IN SADDLE: Garth Brooks is on his way back to spring training. The
country singer returns today to the Padres camp after taking a few days off to
be with his mother. Colleen Brooks had surgery Tuesday in Los Angeles to remove
a cancerous spot from her mouth.

ASTROS: 1B Jeff Bagwell didn't play against the Braves because of a sore neck.

CARDINALS: Mark McGwire played his first spring road game and hit his first road
home run. Baseball's home run king hit his third homer of the spring, a 450-foot
three-run drive off the Mets' Hideo Nomo in the second. McGwire didn't speak
with reporters after the game.

MARLINS: RHP Alex Fernandez, coming back from rotator cuff surgery, allowed one
run and three hits in two innings against the Royals, throwing 44 pitches in his
second start. "If I'm able to go out there with the stuff I had today, I'm going
to be successful," said Fernandez, who missed the 1998 season. "Obviously, it's
going to take time to get up to five or six innings."

METS: Bobby Bonilla sat because of a bruised knee sustained Monday while running
the bases against Montreal. "Bobby had good range of motion in his knee today;
not full range, but much better," manager Bobby Valentine said. "We'll try to
get him a full workout before getting him into a game."


LOAD-DATE: March 11, 1999

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: DIGEST

                    Copyright 1999 Times Publishing Company


                              178 of 280 DOCUMENTS

                         St. Petersburg Times (Florida)

                 May 05, 1999, Wednesday, 3 Early Tampa Edition

Cuban coach seeks asylum

SOURCE: Compiled from Wire Reports

SECTION: SPORTS; Pg. 1C

LENGTH: 604 words

DATELINE: BALTIMORE



Former pitcher among seven from delegation still in the United States.

A Cuban baseball coach skipped the flight home Tuesday after the game against
the Orioles and asked for asylum in the United States.

Federal authorities were trying to determine whether six others who missed the
plane wanted to stay in the United States, too.

Rigoberto Herrera, a 54-year-old pitching coach, walked into the downtown police
headquarters about 10 a.m. Tuesday, a police spokesman said.

The lieutenant on duty "through an interpreter, understood he was requesting
asylum and immediately notified INS officials," spokesman Robert Weinhold said.
The Immigration and Naturalization Service took custody of Herrera, he said.

Rep. Bob Menendez, D-N.J., a foe of Fidel Castro's regime, said the man's full
name is Rigoberto Herrera Betancourt.

Menendez said two others also may have asked for asylum. That could not be
confirmed.

The official Cuban government list of the delegation that traveled to Baltimore
included Rigoberto Betancourt. The government news agency said he was a
54-year-old retired pitcher.

He played Cuban baseball between 1965 and 1975 and was known for an excellent
curveball. Three times he was part of the national team - during the Central
American-Caribbean games in Puerto Rico in 1966, in the Pan American Games in
Winnipeg in 1967 and during a tour of Mexico.

He most recently worked as a pitching trainer in a Havana province.

He was known as "el Pequeno Gigante del Box," which means the Little Big Man in
the Box.

Cuban officials denied that any members of the delegation defected but said six
Cubans overslept and missed the plane.

"We have no defectors," Luis Fernandez, spokesman for the Cuban diplomatic
mission in Washington, told The Associated Press. "I have no information that
there are any defectors."

He said the six were planning to catch another flight home either Tuesday or
today.

In Washington, a senior administration official said the government was making
arrangements to talk to the six to learn whether they want to return
voluntarily.

The INS would not comment on possible defections or say if the agency had been
contacted by the six.

More than 300 Cubans were part of the delegation that attended Monday night's
game, which the Cuban all-stars won 12-6. Besides players, the delegation
included journalists, retired ballplayers, ordinary citizens, members of youth
groups and outstanding students.

The Orioles have an annual payroll of more than $ 78-million, the Cubans about $
2,250.

During a speech welcoming the players at Havana University, Castro criticized
defections in general but gave no indication anyone had stayed behind.

The game, a rematch after the Orioles defeated the Cubans in Havana 3-2 on March
28, was surrounded by controversy. Hundreds of protesters gathered outside
Camden Yards to speak out against Castro. A smaller group supporting the lifting
of sanctions against Cuba protested nearby.

During the game, a Cuban umpire punched and body-slammed a demonstrator who  ran
onto the field carrying an anti-Castro sign.

Ninoska Perez, spokeswoman for Cuban American National Foundation, a Miami-based
exile group, said the defection proves there is no "good will" behind the games.

"I think that the violence that was used by the umpire with one of the
protesters and the fact that everyone in the delegation was under such strict
custody, shows there's no good will," Perez said. "It's just playing into the
hands of the dictatorship."

In March, the Orioles became the first major-league team in 40 years to play in
Cuba.


LOAD-DATE: May 6, 1999

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: COLOR PHOTO, Associated Press; Cuban players Norge Luis Vera and Danel
Castro respond to a cheering crowd in Havana.

                    Copyright 1999 Times Publishing Company


                              179 of 280 DOCUMENTS

                         St. Petersburg Times (Florida)

               May 05, 1999, Wednesday, 0 South Pinellas Edition

Cuban coach seeks asylum

SOURCE: Compiled from Wire Reports

SECTION: SPORTS; Pg. 1C

LENGTH: 618 words

DATELINE: BALTIMORE



Ex-pitcher appears to be the only person from delegation not leaving.

A Cuban baseball coach skipped the flight home Tuesday after the game against
the Orioles and asked for asylum in the United States.

Six other Cubans who missed the plane are believed to have done so accidentally
and will be allowed to return home without U.S. government interference, Justice
Department officials said Tuesday night.

Rigoberto Herrera, a 54-year-old pitching coach, walked into the downtown police
headquarters about 10 a.m. Tuesday, a police spokesman said.

The lieutenant on duty "through an interpreter, understood he was requesting
asylum and immediately notified INS officials," spokesman Robert Weinhold said.
The Immigration and Naturalization Service took custody of Herrera, he said.

Rep. Bob Menendez, D-N.J., a foe of Fidel Castro's regime, said the man's full
name is Rigoberto Herrera Betancourt. Menendez said two other Cubans also may
have asked for asylum, but the Justice Department officials said they were not
aware of any such requests.

The official Cuban government list of the delegation that traveled to Baltimore
included Rigoberto Betancourt. The government news agency said he is a
54-year-old retired pitcher.

He played Cuban baseball between 1965 and 1975 and was known for an excellent
curveball. Three times he was part of the national team - during the Central
American-Caribbean games in Puerto Rico in 1966, in the Pan American Games in
Winnipeg in 1967 and during a tour of Mexico.

He most recently worked as a pitching trainer in a Havana province. He was known
as "el Pequeno Gigante del Box," which means the Little Big Man in the Box.

Cuban officials denied that any members of the delegation defected but said six
Cubans overslept and missed the plane.

"We have no defectors," Luis Fernandez, spokesman for the Cuban diplomatic
mission in Washington, told The Associated Press. "I have no information that
there are any defectors."

He said the six were planning to catch another flight home either Tuesday or
today.

In Washington, the government apparently was making arrangements to talk to the
six - despite the Justice Department conclusion - to learn whether they want to
return voluntarily.

The INS would not comment on possible defections or say if the six had contacted
it.

More than 300 Cubans were part of the delegation that attended Monday night's
game, which the Cuban all-stars won 12-6. Besides players, the delegation
included journalists, retired players, ordinary citizens, members of youth
groups and outstanding students.

During a speech welcoming back the players at Havana University, Castro
criticized defections in general but  didn't indicate anyone had stayed behind.

The game, a rematch after the Orioles defeated the Cubans in Havana 3-2 on March
28, was surrounded by controversy. Hundreds of protesters gathered outside
Camden Yards to speak out against Castro. A smaller group supporting the lifting
of sanctions against Cuba protested nearby.

During the game, a Cuban umpire punched and body-slammed a demonstrator who  ran
onto the field with an anti-Castro sign. Cesar Valdez said through interpreters
that he became angry at the fan for insulting Castro.

"Above all, I'm Cuban, and I don't have to stand for such a lack of respect,"
Valdez said.

Ninoska Perez, spokeswoman for Cuban American National Foundation, a Miami-based
exile group, said the defection proves there is no "good will" behind the games.
"I think that the violence that was used by the umpire with one of the
protesters and the fact that everyone in the delegation was under such strict
custody shows there's no good will," Perez said.


LOAD-DATE: May 6, 1999

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: COLOR PHOTO, Associated Press; Cuban players Norge Luis Vera and Danel
Castro respond to a cheering crowd in Havana.

                    Copyright 1999 Times Publishing Company


                              180 of 280 DOCUMENTS

                         St. Petersburg Times (Florida)

               May 12, 1999, Wednesday, 0 South Pinellas Edition
                              Correction Appended

New rules for Haitians who want to stay

SOURCE: Compiled from Times Wires

SECTION: NATIONAL; THE NATION IN BRIEF; Pg. 5A

LENGTH: 453 words

DATELINE: WASHINGTON; NEW ORLEANS; MEMPHIS, Tenn.



Some 50,000 Haitian refugees eligible to become permanent residents of the
United States can apply to change their status beginning next month under
regulations published today by the Immigration and Naturalization Service.

Eligible refugees - primarily those who filed for asylum before Dec. 31, 1995 -
have until March 31, 2000, to apply for permanent residency status. About 70
percent of those refugees live in South Florida.

The act also applies to any Haitian who was a child - unmarried and under 21 -
before that date and arrived and remained without parents or became orphaned
after arrival.

Bus driver's diabetes

may have affected license

NEW ORLEANS - The driver of the charter bus that crashed on Mother's Day,
killing 22 people, was a diabetic who had begun kidney dialysis - a condition
that could have cost him his license when it came up for renewal.

Federal investigators are looking into whether Frank Bedell's health problems
contributed to the wreck. Bedell had not been interviewed by investigators
because he is in critical condition with head and pelvic injuries.

It was not known whether Bedell was taking insulin for his diabetes. If he was,
he would have had to stop any interstate commercial driving.

Insulin-dependent diabetics who get too much sugar can become incoherent and act
like drunks. Symptoms of kidney failure - one of the biggest complications of
diabetes - can include loss of alertness and fatigue.

Also Tuesday, investigators removed two electronic monitoring boxes from the
bus' engine and transmission, hoping they will reveal how fast Bedell was
traveling and whether he tried to brake.

Jury sides with tobacco companies over smokers

MEMPHIS, Tenn. - Three of the nation's largest tobacco companies - Philip Morris
Inc., R.J. Reynolds Tobacco Co. and Brown & Williamson Tobacco Corp. - were
cleared of liability Monday in the deaths of three smokers whose families said
the companies and their cigarettes were responsible.

The smokers' families said the companies knowingly sold a dangerous product and
tried to cover up the risks. They were seeking more than $ 431,000 for medical
bills and unspecified punitive damages that could have reached into the millions
of dollars.

NO WATER ALARM: The owner of an Arkansas tour boat, lifted out of the water
Sunday, apparently had not followed a Coast Guard order to install an alarm that
warns when a vessel is taking on water, the owner's attorney said. On Tuesday, a
guardsman said he declared the vessel fit when he inspected it two months ago
but wanted that and several other problems fixed. An out-of-place seal and a
broken bilge pump hose caused the "duck" to sink May 1, killing 13 people.


LOAD-DATE: May 14, 1999

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

CORRECTION-DATE: May 13, 1999

CORRECTION:
 Insulin-dependent diabetics who get too little sugar can become incoherent. A
Wednesday story about a bus accident in New Orleans was incorrect on this point.

GRAPHIC: BLACK AND WHITE PHOTO, Associated Press; The Arkansas tour boat that
sank on May 1, killing 13 people, is lifted from the water Sunday.

TYPE: DIGEST

                    Copyright 1999 Times Publishing Company


                              181 of 280 DOCUMENTS

                         St. Petersburg Times (Florida)

                              May 16, 1999, Sunday

Why is this man in jail?

BYLINE: ROBYN E. BLUMNER

SECTION: PERSPECTIVE; Pg. 1D

LENGTH: 859 words



When Tampa resident and former University of South Florida teacher Mazen
Al-Najjar wakes up Wednesday morning he will mark two years in a Bradenton jail.

Why is he there? Why has he been denied bail while he appeals a deportation
order on a lapsed visa? He doesn't know. His lawyers don't know. Members of
Congress agitating on his behalf don't know.

Only the U.S. Immigration and Naturalization Service and Attorney General Janet
Reno know, and they're not telling.

Al-Najjar is one of America's political prisoners. He is one of two dozen or so
almost exclusively Arabic or Muslim immigrants sitting in our nation's jails on
the basis of secret evidence. The government won't specify the charges against
Al-Najjar. It only generally accuses him of "associating" with a terrorist
group, the Palestinian Islamic Jihad, while working on Palestinian issues at a
USF-based think tank. Al-Najjar, a Palestinian refugee who has been in this
country about 20 years and has three young daughters who are American citizens,
claims he's being punished for his political beliefs.

Today, Arabic immigrants accused of terrorism have about the same chance of
generating public sympathy as did Russian immigrants accused of being part of a
Communist plot in the 1950s. Even so, a few courageous members of Congress have
been expressing concern over the INS's use of secret evidence for arrest,
imprisonment and deportation.

As recently as a few weeks ago, David Bonior, the U.S. House minority whip from
Michigan, met personally with Reno, asking for an accounting on Al-Najjar's
case. The Justice Department won't say much about what was said at the meeting.
But according to Bonior's press secretary Fred Clarke, Reno was quoted as
saying, "she's still reviewing the case, but so far she's satisfied with the way
the investigation (into Al-Najjar's activities) has been conducted."

Isn't that reassuring. The nation's chief law enforcement officer, who's
responsible for both the INS and the FBI, is satisfied with the way they've been
doing their job.

I thought we threw out the "trust the queen, she wouldn't imprison someone who
doesn't deserve it" approach to criminal justice when we sent King George III
packing.

Whether Al-Najjar should be imprisoned is a decision that prosecutor Reno should
not get to make alone. It's also for the rest of us to decide. And the only way
for us to do so is for the charges and their proof to be made public.

Our justice system is based on a simple premise familiar to anyone who lived
through detente: trust with verification. The public allows the government to
bring charges against suspected terrorists and criminals, but watches the
process to make doubly sure it's not used as a way to rout out political enemies
and undesirables. That's why we have public trials, a specified list of charges
and the right to confront witnesses and evidence. Such procedures are
constitutionally guaranteed to protect the rights of defendants, but they also
allow the public to act as a check on the power of the state to imprison people
arbitrarily.

The government claims that to disclose the evidence against these immigrants
would jeopardize "national security." Yet, in a number of high-profile cases
where the secret evidence has been disclosed due to court order or public
pressure, it often turns out to be a garbage heap of innuendo, unsubstantiated
rumor, vendetta, anti-Arabic slurs and news clips. It turns out to be the kind
of evidence that wouldn't survive court scrutiny.

There is no reason to trust that the evidence against Al-Najjar is any more
compelling. If it is, let's see it.

What seems to elude the Justice Department is that our national security has as
much to do with keeping domestic law enforcement respectful of the civil
liberties as it does with catching international terrorists. We know through
historical experience - McCarthyism, the Japanese internment, government attacks
on the Bonus Army after World War I and civil rights marchers and Vietnam War
protesters later - that a disregard for civil liberties is more corrosive to
society's general welfare than is a terrorist's bomb.

When Al-Najjar awakens on Wednesday to the start of his third year in jail, he
still won't know the nature of his alleged transgressions or when his
indeterminate sentence will end. But he will know that some in Congress are
trying to prevent cases like his from recurring.

Bonior and Rep. Tom Campbell, R-Calif., are hoping to introduce legislation on
the second anniversary of Al-Najjar's incarceration that will either prohibit
the use of secret evidence or provide due process and accountability when it's
used, according to Campbell's spokesperson Suhail Khan. Khan says the measure is
expected to be initially supported by about 20 colleagues in the House and
Senate on both sides of the aisle.

This is not the kind of bill that will go anywhere unless the public gets
involved. It behooves us all to do so. Not because we're necessarily
pro-Palestinian or believe that Al-Najjar is an innocent man, but because the
use of secret evidence has no place in our system of justice.


LOAD-DATE: May 17, 1999

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: COLOR PHOTO, JIM STEM; (1998) After two years, the government still
won't disclose why it is holding Mazen Al-Najjar.

TYPE: COLUMN

                    Copyright 1999 Times Publishing Company


                              182 of 280 DOCUMENTS

                         St. Petersburg Times (Florida)

                  May 18, 1999, Tuesday, 2 Late Tampa Edition

Events planned for jailed immigrant

SECTION: TAMPA & STATE; BRIEFLY; Pg. 3B

LENGTH: 183 words



Two events are planned this week to protest the continued detention of Mazen
Al-Najjar, a Tampa man who Wednesday begins his third year in jail on secret
evidence alleging ties to terrorists.

A Palestinian immigrant with an expired visa, Al-Najjar has been denied bond
while he appeals his deportation. The U.S. government says he is associated with
the Palestinian Islamic Jihad.

Evidence of that accusation, however, is secret, and Al-Najjar and his
supporters say his detention is unconstitutional.

He was arrested May 19, 1997. No charges have been filed.

A prayer vigil will be held from 7 to 8:30 p.m. Wednesday outside the U.S.
Immigration and Naturalization Service detention facility in Bradenton, where
Al-Najjar is being held. The facility is at 515 11th St. W (adjacent to the
Manatee County Sheriff's Office).

On Friday, a community rally at Tampa City Hall will be from 3:30 to 5 p.m.
Supporters plan to fly 732 black balloons, one for each day Al-Najjar has been
in jail.

For more information, call the Tampa Bay Coalition for Justice and Peace at
(813) 988-2257.


LOAD-DATE: May 18, 1999

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DISTRIBUTION: TAMPA & STATE; METRO & STATE; CITY & STATE

GRAPHIC: BLACK AND WHITE PHOTO; Mazen Al-Najjar (ran Tampa & State)

TYPE: DIGEST

                    Copyright 1999 Times Publishing Company


                              183 of 280 DOCUMENTS

                         St. Petersburg Times (Florida)

                              May 23, 1999, Sunday

No more secret evidence

SECTION: PERSPECTIVE; EDITORIALS; Pg. 2D

LENGTH: 362 words



It is two years and counting since University of South Florida teacher Mazen
Al-Najjar was imprisoned in a Bradenton jail on the basis of evidence he has
never been allowed to see. The Immigration and Naturalization Service is using
secret evidence of what it claims are Al-Najjar's ties to terrorists to keep him
behind bars while he appeals a deportation order on a lapsed visa. He hasn't
been told any of the specific allegations against him, he hasn't been charged
with any crime beyond his visa expiration, and his sentence has no end.

Members of Florida's congressional delegation should be incensed over this
travesty of justice. Yet not a whimper of protest has emanated from them.
Instead, Al-Najjar's rights are being defended by two out-of-state congressmen
who understand that the use of secret evidence is anathema to American justice
and the Constitution.

House Minority Whip David Bonior, D-Mich., and Rep. Tom Campbell, R-Calif., have
introduced a bill that would force the Department of Justice and the INS to put
up or shut up. The Secret Evidence Repeal Act of 1999 would repeal the law that
granted the INS the authority to use secret evidence in the arrest, detention
and deportion of aliens. It would require the attorney general to disclose all
evidence against a non-citizen or withdraw it.

"The rights to confront your accuser, hear the evidence against you and secure a
speedy trial are fundamental tenets of the American justice system," said Bonior
in introducing the legislation. There are about two dozen cases throughout the
country in which secret evidence has been used by the INS, mostly against Arab
and Muslim immigrants.

Bonior's legislation should not be necessary in a nation that supposedly
safeguards liberty and respects due process. If Florida's senators, Republican
Connie Mack and Democrat Bob Graham, are looking for a way to protect essential
American values, they should forget about passing constitutional amendments to
prohibit flag burning. Excising the use of secret evidence from our justice
system will do more to protect what this nation stands for than passing a dozen
anti-flag-burning amendments.


LOAD-DATE: May 24, 1999

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: EDITORIAL

                    Copyright 1999 Times Publishing Company


                              184 of 280 DOCUMENTS

                         St. Petersburg Times (Florida)

                June 07, 1999, Monday, 0 South Pinellas Edition

Immigrants all packed with nowhere to go

BYLINE: SUSAN ASCHOFF

SECTION: NATIONAL; Pg. 1A

LENGTH: 1456 words



Ordered deported, men jailed as threats to national security cannot find a
country that will have them.

After two years in a Bradenton jail, Mazen Al-Najjar is ready to do what the
United States government wants him to do.

Leave.

Trouble is, as a Palestinian and a man the government says associates with
terrorists, Al-Najjar cannot find a country that will have him.

In California, six Iraqis are also desperately seeking release from jail and are
days away from an agreement with the federal government to give up their fight
to reside in the United States. They are accused of being spies. So although
they have made a checklist of 74 countries as possible destinations, few, if
any, will allow them to enter.

The Palestinian and the Iraqis and another dozen or so immigrants nationwide are
in a Catch-22.

Ordered deported on visa violations, they are jailed on secret evidence that
they are threats to national security. The men face years in detention while
they appeal, or an almost impossible search for a place to go if they do not.

If they decide to stop fighting deportation and find a country where they can
move their families and make a living, they are tainted goods: The U.S.
government says they are dangerous. Because the government's case is secret,
those accused cannot prove otherwise.

Al-Najjar's relatives spent thousands of dollars obtaining five visas to Guyana
in South America only to have them rescinded days before their December
departure when the Guyanese government heard of the terrorist accusations.

An attorney for the Iraqi six says countries generally do not want people who
are not citizens, and they certainly don't want an immigrant labeled a threat.

"I can go to the country and give them everything we have and they'll say, what
about these classified documents" the U.S. government still has on file, says
Niels Frenzen of the Public Counsel Law Center.

The Iraqis were rebel fighters allied with the CIA to overthrow Saddam Hussein.
They were among 6,000 flown out of Iraq by the U.S. government when the effort
failed. The government now says they are spies. Denied asylum by an immigration
judge in 1998, they have been jailed two years. Outraged that the United States
would treat allies so poorly, former CIA director and attorney James Woolsey
joined the case, and much of the secret evidence was released. Woolsey and
others found it unsubstantiated hearsay, rife with racial prejudice.

But while the Iraqis might win their appeal of deportation either in the U.S.
Immigration and Naturalization Service system, or later in federal courts, they
cannot wait years to find out.

Four of the men's families were resettled in Nebraska, another in Utah. One
man's wife has divorced him. Another has a 2-year-old daughter he has never seen
and a wife subsisting on welfare. The families have no money to visit the Los
Angeles-area detention facility where their husbands and fathers are being held.

Al-Najjar, a Tampa resident who worked as an Arabic teacher and translator, has
lived in the United States almost 20 years. He has a brother in California and a
sister in Tampa. His three daughters are U.S. citizens.

But his wife, Fedaa Al-Najjar, cannot bear his indeterminate imprisonment, she
says. His daughters are growing up without him. Members of his east Tampa mosque
and his extended family have been strained by the $ 100,000-plus spent on legal
representation, lobbying and support for the family.

Similar cases involving secret evidence have lasted as long as 12 years and
counting. For the Iraqis and Al-Najjar, agreeing to leave the United States is
"the fastest way to regain their freedom and rejoin their families," Frenzen
says.

More than a year ago, Al-Najjar's friends quietly began looking for a place to
go.

"Britain and Canada said no. They did not say why," says Sami Al-Arian,
Al-Najjar's brother-in-law. "The United Arab Emirates said no. Saudi Arabia said
no."

Through inquiries by friends or formal requests to embassies, the Al-Najjar
family has also been rejected by Kuwait, Oman, Bahrain, Syria, Jordan and a
half-dozen other countries, Al-Arian says.

An immigration judge ordered Al-Najjar deported to the UAE and his wife to Saudi
Arabia, based on their last places of residence overseas. But a country must
agree to admit them.

In the UAE, officials were told Al-Najjar had been ordered deported there and
that Al-Najjar's father was a resident. "They said he couldn't come," Al-Arian
says.

Governments give no explanation for the rejections, or cite security concerns,
Al-Arian says.

Spokespersons or attorneys at several of those embassies said they either have
no knowledge of the Al-Najjar case or declined to discuss it.

Reports of terrorist allegations are readily available in the media and on
Internet sites. The U.S. government may also notify countries about a
questionable immigrant seeking entry. With its clout as world leader and
provider of foreign aid, the United States is rarely crossed.

"Many of the Western nations are not going to look at a cause like this because
of the cloud of secret evidence. Middle East countries have their own
restrictions," says Jeanne Butterfield, executive director of the American
Immigration Lawyers Association.

"There's no place in the world that has open borders" and lets anyone in, she
says.

The Al-Najjar family is looking for a culture that is safe for Palestinians and
where he can find work. Al-Najjar has a doctorate in engineering. They hope for
a country where English is spoken.

The INS says it does not care where they go, as long as they leave.

"'The objective is to remove this person from the United States" when ordered
deported, says INS spokesman Russ Bergeron.

There are only six countries - Cuba, Vietnam, Laos, Cambodia, Libya and Sudan -
with which the United States does not have repatriation agreements, he says. But
that short list is deceiving - each of the 190 recognized by the United States
decides who may or may not enter.

"Certain individuals who are known or suspected of being criminals or terrorists
will not be welcome," Bergeron says.

The U.S. government has the power to veto any destination, because Al-Najjar is
in custody.

A home can be particularly difficult to find for Palestinians. As one attorney
puts it, "no one has been a Palestinian since 1949," when almost 1-million were
expelled or fled after the Arab-Israeli war.

Palestinians are stateless. Most have temporary travel documents, which
typically must be renewed every six months. Many countries will not permit entry
with those credentials.

"When my uncle died, my mother was not allowed to go to Kuwait to attend the
funeral," Al-Arian says. Mrs. Al-Najjar says she lost her travel papers when she
failed to make it back to Saudi Arabia for renewal when she was pregnant.

Of the more than 20 immigrants held on secret evidence nationwide, almost all
are Arab and Muslim. Supporters say they are victims of discrimination, of a
witch hunt for Middle East terrorists by the U.S. government.

Most have lived here for years and want to remain. They proclaim their
innocence. The government, they say, has made it impossible for them to prove
it.

In Michigan, Palestinian Imad Hamad fought for more than a decade to stay. He
was given residency in February when the Board of Immigration Appeals agreed
with a judge and rejected INS accusations of terrorist ties as unproven and
vague.

A man in New Jersey jailed a year and accused of talking to a World Trade Center
bomber has not been charged. An immigration judge found the evidence against him
lacking all credibility and granted bail April 2. But Hany Kiareldeen remains
jailed on an emergency stay filed by the INS.

In California, a secret evidence case against seven Arabs and a Kenyan, none of
whom is detained, has lasted 12 years.

Al-Najjar, the Iraqis and others in jail cannot last that long. The financial
cost and the damage to their families is too great.

The Iraqis are willing to do "just about anything to restore their families,
short of returning to Iraq," where they believe they would be killed as
opponents of Hussein, Frenzen says.

For Al-Najjar, much of his deportation appeal focuses on his length of stay in
the United States - uninterrupted residency is good - and which immigration laws
apply. He has been unable to obtain release of the secret evidence marking him a
dangerous man.

As these and other cases drag on, it is clear the government's representatives
are not playing for the same stakes as the immigrants, Frenzen says.

They do not have families who are disintegrating without them. They never run
out of money. And they can litigate forever.


LOAD-DATE: June 8, 1999

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: COLOR PHOTO; Mazen Al-Najjar

                    Copyright 1999 Times Publishing Company


                              185 of 280 DOCUMENTS

                         St. Petersburg Times (Florida)

                 July 01, 1999, Thursday, 2 Late Tampa Edition

U.S.-CUBA RELATIONS // Coast Guard examines actions

SOURCE: Compiled from Staff and Wire Reports

SECTION: TAMPA & STATE; Pg. 1B

LENGTH: 1095 words

DATELINE: MIAMI



The treatment of six Cuban refugees sets off a melee and leads to the inquiry.

Miami's large Cuban-American population was bristling with outrage Wednesday, a
day after the Coast Guard used water pumps to turn back a boat carrying six
Cuban rafters who had come within 150 yards of the Miami Beach coastline.

The handling of the Cubans generated a melee early Wednesday with a
punch-throwing mayor and resulted in a Coast Guard inquiry into its own
behavior.

With the event televised live, Coast Guard crews were shown showering the Cubans
with hoses. That sent Cuban supporters to the streets and stalled evening
rush-hour traffic Tuesday on two major highways before U.S. authorities offered
to consider asylum. The refugees were released to family members at 9:40 p.m.
Wednesday, said immigration official Alton Harth.

The Coast Guard has what it calls a "wet feet, dry feet" policy when it comes to
immigrants, according to Petty Officer Jeff Murphy.

If the immigrants are apprehended before they reach land, the Coast Guard keeps
them on board its ship and the Immigration and Naturalization Service interviews
them. It's probable, but not a guarantee, that refugees caught before they make
it ashore will be returned to Cuba.

If they reach shore, the U.S. Border Patrol or local police are in charge. Under
this scenario, the immigrants are often taken to Krome Detention Center in
Miami, and eventually freed.

"A lot of the times we're seeing these people released or given citizenship, but
it's not a guarantee. That is up to the INS," Murphy said.

The policy of returning immigrants has aggravated tensions in recent weeks with
Cuban boats arriving in South Florida at least weekly and the pace of
interceptions picking up.

The Coast Guard has picked up 826 Cubans so far this year, compared with 1,047
in all of last year. That was the first year to break 1,000 since the exodus of
more than 37,000 Cubans in 1994.

On Wednesday, dozens of people gathered at an INS center as an official
announced Washington would decide the fate of the six refugees ranging in age
from 17 to 36.

A banner plane flew over the Coast Guard station with the message "Iraq soldiers
were treated better."

At the end of one hours-long demonstration, Hialeah Mayor Raul Martinez was
standing at a police line when he was caught on camera arguing with protesters.
He grabbed a man and pounded him several times on the back.

"There was a group of individuals here that were agitated. They didn't care
about those six individuals. They were here just to make trouble," Martinez told
WSVN-TV. "They were not willing to listen."

U.S. Rep. Lincoln Diaz-Balart, R-Fla., said Coast Guard Commandant James Loy
promised "a full, serious and prompt investigation" of the agency's actions on
the water. Water hoses have been used in the past, but they are not commonly
used.

The U.S. Border Patrol is questioning whether the six refugees found Tuesday
made it to the South Florida on their own or whether they were smuggled in and
left just offshore to finish the trip on their own.

The refugees, found in a 14-foot rowboat, had no splinters, calluses, or signs
of dehydration or overexposure, said Keith Robert, assistant chief of the Border
Patrol in Miami.

"We are looking at it as an active case of smuggling," Robert told WTVJ-TV.

The refugees became extremely evasive when asked about the journey, Robert said.

"They just didn't have their stories together," he said.

Increasingly, Coast Guard officials say, smugglers are using high-speed boats to
elude U.S. authorities.

"We have been seeing a drastic increase over the past few months," Murphy said.
"We've seen more and more sophisticated types of boats."

In fact, also on Tuesday, the Coast Guard reported it had stopped a boat
carrying 17 Cubans who paid $ 8,000 to $ 10,000 for passage from Havana to the
Florida Keys. Three people were charged with smuggling.

The sensitivity of Tuesday's incident with the six refugees off Miami Beach was
demonstrated by Commandant Loy's call Wednesday to Diaz-Balart, a Cuban-American
from Miami.

A senior Coast Guard officer from outside the region will lead the internal
investigation. A major element will be the use-of-force reports filled out by
all crew members at sea, said Lt. Ron LaBrec, Coast Guard spokesman in Miami.

Coast Guard crews used water hoses on those in the boat and one refugee in the
water was hit with pepper spray.

With the Coast Guard an oar's length away, the refugees bailed out about 150
yards from shore and frantically changed direction each time authorities drew
near in four boats. Two reached shore and Coast Guard crews plucked four from
shallow surf.

Within hours, more than 1,000 protesters marched on the Coast Guard station,
charging its crews with brutality and chanting "Let them go" and "Assassins."

Demonstrators held signs saying "U.S. Coast Guard: Pigs like Castro" and waved
Cuban flags as they sang the Cuban national anthem.

"We are very upset that the Cuban community feels we acted inappropriately,"
LaBrec said Tuesday. "We are going to try and address these concerns."

After several hours of protest, Coast Guard officials announced the four
waterlogged Cubans would be brought to shore.

During the Hialeah demonstration, police Chief Rolando Bolanos was hit in the
head with a rock and was treated for minor injuries.

Diaz-Balart wrote President Clinton on Tuesday urging that the Cubans be
released. In a statement Wednesday, Diaz-Balart said, "Following orders cannot
excuse putting refugees' lives at risk."

Miami Mayor Joe Carollo also expressed concern, saying, "This is a very dark day
not just for Miami, but for the country."

- Information from the Associated Press and New York Times was used in this
report.

Coast Guard detentions at sea

These statistics reflect the interdictions of illegal migrants by the U.S. Coast
Guard with the 7th Coast Guard District which encompasses Florida except the
Panhandle, South Carolina, Georgia and the Caribbean basin.

    CUBANS  HAITIANS  DOMINICANS

1990     467     1,131      1,694

1991    2,203    9,941      1,455

1992    2,557   31,401        436

1993    3,656    2,329        579

1994   37,139   24,197        905

1995     626     1,969      4,176

1996     403       700      4,678

1997     406       587        523

1998    1,047    1,206        513

1999+837       307        140

+Through Wednesday

Source: U.S. Coast Guard


LOAD-DATE: July 1, 1999

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DISTRIBUTION: TAMPA & STATE; NATIONAL

GRAPHIC: COLOR PHOTO, Associated Press; COLOR CHART; BLACK AND WHITE CHART;
Hialeah Mayor Raul Martinez, in the blue shirt, retaliates after a man attacked
a police officer during a protest over the treatment of six Cuban refugees.;
statistics reflect the interdictions of illegal migrants by the Coast Guard in
all areas of Florida but the Panhandle with drawing of a boat overloaded with
refugees (ran TAMPA & STATE); statistics reflect the interdictions of illegal
migrants by the Coast Guard in all areas of Florida but the Panhandle with
drawing of a boat overloaded with refugees (ran NATIONAL)

                    Copyright 1999 Times Publishing Company


                              186 of 280 DOCUMENTS

                         St. Petersburg Times (Florida)

               July 07, 1999, Wednesday, 0 South Pinellas Edition

Guilt by association

SECTION: EDITORIAL; EDITORIALS; Pg. 12A

LENGTH: 540 words



A bill in Congress would give the INS power to pin a "terrorist" label on both
foreign and domestic groups, making their members subject to deportation.

A McCarthy-era law repealed by Congress in 1990 is being dusted off for
repackaging and resale. It's bad news for the Constitution.

In 1952, when the McCarran-Walter Act was passed by Congress over the veto of
President Harry Truman, the country was hysterical over perceived threats to our
national security from communism. The law, which allowed for the deportation and
exclusion of aliens who advocated communism and other taboo ideas, was used to
keep writers such as Gabriel Garcia Marquez and Graham Greene out of the
country. Pierre Trudeau, former prime minister of Canada, was also denied a U.S.
visa under the act. Congress repealed the law after a federal district court
judge ruled it an unconstitutional infringement on the First Amendment rights of
immigrants.

Today's bugaboo is not communism but terrorism. And, as in the 1950s, some
members of Congress are saying that the only way to keep this nation safe is to
oust immigrants who support the political beliefs of organizations our
government labels "terrorist."

Introduced by Rep. Robert Andrews, D-N.J., the "Keeping America Safe Act of
1999," H.R. 2184, would not just deport those who participate in violent
terrorist activities. It also would deport those who align themselves with the
political or humanitarian goals of unfavored groups. It's guilt by association:
punishing people for their thoughts as opposed to their actions.

The bill, making its way through the House Subcommittee on Immigration and
Claims, would give the Immigration and Naturalization Service the power to
designate both foreign and domestic organizations as "terrorist." Any member of
those groups would be subject to deportation.

Current law puts limits on what kinds of groups can be labeled "terrorist." The
secretary of state can designate only foreign organizations as terrorist, and
only if their actions threaten the security of the United States or its
nationals. But Andrews' bill contains no definition of what constitutes a
terrorist organization, giving the INS the freedom to label groups such as
Operation Rescue or Greenpeace as terrorist because they often combine ideology
with coercive illegal acts.

If the bill is passed, expect its broad power to be married with the INS' use of
secret evidence. Already, the INS is trying to throw immigrants accused of
terrorism out of the country without allowing them to see the evidence against
them. This law would allow the INS to use secret evidence to deport aliens on
claims of mere associations.

Supporters in Congress try to justify this expansive law by pointing to the
World Trade Center bombing. Of course, had we only enforced the immigration laws
in place at the time, World Trade Center terrorists such as Sheik Omar Abdel
Rahman would have been barred from the country. He was already on a State
Department list of "undesirables" and should never have been granted a visa.

We don't need new laws, just better enforcement of existing ones. And we
certainly don't need new laws that resemble ones that were repealed as
unconstitutional.


LOAD-DATE: July 7, 1999

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: EDITORIAL

                    Copyright 1999 Times Publishing Company


                              187 of 280 DOCUMENTS

                         St. Petersburg Times (Florida)

                July 13, 1999, Tuesday, 0 South Pinellas Edition

A harsh reality of immigration

SECTION: EDITORIAL; EDITORIALS; Pg. 10A

LENGTH: 458 words



Rodi Alvarado Pena, a Guatemalan national, is a torture victim. She was
routinely raped, beaten and threatened for 11 years and finally escaped the
violence by fleeing to this country. Her problem is, her tormentor was not her
government but the man she married.

Last month, the Board of Immigration Appeals denied Alvarado's request for
asylum to be free from her abusive spouse. It was a tough-to-swallow but
necessary ruling.

Domestic violence is a serious problem in many countries where the culture
condones it and police authorities ignore it. But our political asylum process
was designed to protect people from government-sponsored terror, not that which
arises out of personal relationships. Asylum exists to give sanctuary to people
who, due to their immutable characteristics, their social group or their
political or religious beliefs, face violence or persecution at the hand of
government or with its blessing. Those people are truly without a country.

Even though Alvarado was able to show that her attempts to persuade the
Guatemalan courts to intervene in her domestic nightmare were fruitless, she was
unable to prove that domestic violence was an intrinsic part of marriage in her
country.

The board noted that spousal abuse may have been officially tolerated, but it
wasn't officially sponsored or encouraged. "The record also shows," wrote board
member Lauri Filppu, "that abusive marriages are not viewed as desirable, that
spousal abuse is recognized as a problem, and that some measures have been
pursued in an attempt to respond to this acknowledged problem."

While immigration guidelines have recently expanded asylum to recognize
gender-based persecution, victims of spousal abuse do not fit neatly into that
category. Men and women are subject to abusive partners, and abusers don't
target their victims on the basis of gender but on that of familial
relationship.

Critics of the board's ruling say Alvarado's situation was similar to that of
Fauziya Kasinga, the West African woman granted asylum in 1997 to escape the
practice of genital mutilation. But in Kasinga's case, the gruesome ritual was a
cultural imperative in her tribal society, universally practiced to discourage
women from sexual promiscuity. Kasinga proved she would have been persecuted.

The harsh reality of immigration is that some people in need are going to be
shut out. The United States routinely denies entry to people running from
desperate economic circumstances because so much of the world's population would
qualify for entry under that criterion. The line has to be drawn somewhere, and
it is both reasonable and responsible to admit people whose own government
abuses them, but to turn away those whose husbands do.


LOAD-DATE: July 14, 1999

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: EDITORIAL

                    Copyright 1999 Times Publishing Company


                              188 of 280 DOCUMENTS

                         St. Petersburg Times (Florida)

                 July 22, 1999, Thursday, 3 Early Tampa Edition

Cuban pistol shooter defects

SOURCE: Compiled from Staff and Wire Reports

SECTION: SPORTS; SPORTS DIGEST; FANFARE; Pg. 2C

LENGTH: 1554 words



Cuban pistol shooter Abel Juncosa Reyes defected when his team arrived at the
Pan American Games in Winnipeg, Manitoba, the Associated Press reported.

Reyes walked into a Royal Canadian Mountain Police station Tuesday and asked to
remain in Canada. He was turned over to federal immigration authorities, then
released, pending an immigration hearing, probably in September.

AP reported that Reyes remained under police protection after seeking asylum.

The Cuban team is being housed at the Southport athletes village outside
Winnipeg. Heavy security measures were expected after five members of the Cuban
basketball delegation defected at the Tournament of the Americas in Puerto Rico
last week.

In an interview before Reyes' defection, Brian Koshul, press secretary for the
Pan American Games Society Inc., said games officials would not actively assist
athletes wishing to defect.

"They do not take them for a coke, they do not hide them in the trunk of a car,
they do not hide them in the attic," he said. "Our only contact with applicants
for refugee status is (to say) "Mr. police officer, this person wants to speak
with you.' "

Several Americans are not participating. Those who walked away from the games,
which officially open Friday night, were pole vaulter Jeff Hartwig, 1991 Pan Am
200-meter winner Kevin Little, hurdler Sandra Glover, distance runner Libbie
Hickman and long jumpers Erick Walder and Roland McGhee.

Still, the American team features 13 men and five women who have participated in
the Olympics. Many of the top track and field athletes are competing in
lucrative European meets.

Canada's baseball team, which could challenge for one of two berths for the 2000
Olympics being decided here, was hurt by the last-minute dropouts of Double A
Birmingham pitchers Aaron Myette and Julien Tucker. Canada manager Ernie Whitt
did not find out until Tuesday that Myette, likely to be his top starter, and
Tucker would not participate.

TRACK AND FIELD: Maurice Greene powered away from Francis Obikwelu in the last
40 meters to win the 200-meter sprint in the Golden League meet in Paris.
Greene's time of 20.13 seconds won by .07. Marion Jones again showed she has no
equal at 200 meters, outclassing the field in 21.99 seconds. The American, 23,
is unbeaten in 18 races spanning three years and is the only woman to have run
below 22 seconds this year. In other events, Wilson Kipketer won the 800 in
1:44.89; Maria Mutola beat Svetlana Masterkova with a time of 1:58.25 in the
women's 800; Bernard Barmasai won his third consecutive Golden League
3,000-meter steeplechase; and Gabriela Szabo won at 3,000 meters. Former Florida
runner Dennis Mitchell is awaiting a decision by the International Amateur
Athletics Federation that will determine whether he competes in next month's
World Championships. Unless Saturday's hearing clears him of charges that he had
an illegal ratio of testosterone to epitestosterone in his body last summer,
Mitchell won't be making the trip to Seville, Spain. The hearing stems from a
drug test last July. Mitchell had a 6:1 ratio, considered suspicious by the
IAAF. The governing body considers ratios that high to be evidence of steroid
use, although no steroids were found in Mitchell's test. Mitchell received an
automatic two-year suspension.

OLYMPICS: Documents made public show that organizers seeking the 1996 Olympics
for Atlanta made early contact with IOC members later disciplined for their role
in the Salt Lake City bribery scandal. One memo shows former Olympics chief
Billy Payne ordering an $ 875 live bulldog to help secure the bid of the Cuban
IOC member, and another shows him requesting free airfare for two IOC members.
In a show of how Payne and his staff tried to find the personal touch, one memo
reminds a staffer to get some baseballs signed by home run king Hank Aaron for
officials from the baseball-mad Dominican Republic. But most of the documents
reviewed ranged from mundane thank-you notes to tersely written letters
quibbling over printing bills. Memos and letters written by Payne and other
early bid workers show that after Atlanta was nominated as the U.S. bid city in
April 1988, the bid committee was in contact with IOC members Kim Un-Yong of
Korea, Anton Geesink of Finland and Phil Coles of Australia - all disciplined by
the IOC earlier this year. Kim and Geesink were accused of accepting
inappropriate gifts from Salt Lake organizers; Coles was accused of helping Salt
Lake by providing information on fellow IOC members. Nine IOC members eventually
resigned or were expelled in the wake of the scandal.

 NHL: Mario Lemieux wants to close on his deal to buy the Penguins by Friday, 13
days before a deadline set by a judge, his lawyer says. U.S. Bankruptcy Judge
Bernard Markovitz agreed July 14 to give the hockey great until Monday to
complete his proposal, including securing all the money from his investors.
Markovitz said the deal must close within 10 days of receiving the proposal.
"With the support we've been receiving from the mayor and the Public Auditorium
Authority, I don't think there's anything that could stop this deal now,"
Lemieux attorney Doug Campbell said. The Capitals signed free-agent right wing
Ulf Dahlen, who has not played in the league for two years. Contract terms were
not disclosed. Dahlen, 32, spent the past two seasons with Jonkoping in the
Swedish Elite League. The 6-foot-2, 195-pounder had 14 goals and 29 assists in
25 games last season. A 13-year NHL veteran, Dahlen last played in the league
with the Chicago Blackhawks in 1997. The Maple Leafs re-signed forwards Mike
Johnson and Alyn McCauley. Johnson, a 24-year-old right wing, signed a two-year
contract worth $ 1.9-million. McCauley, a 22-year-old center, got a new one-year
pact worth $ 715,000. The Thrashers signed free-agent defenseman Chris Tamer,
who they selected in the expansion draft from the Rangers. Tamer, 28, had one
goal, five assists and 124 penalty minutes in 63 games with the Rangers and
Penguins last season. The Kings signed four players, adding depth and a possible
replacement for enforcer Matt Johnson, who was lost to Atlanta in the expansion
draft. Signed were 32-year-old Bill Huard; center Len Barrie, 30; goalie Mike
O'Neill, 31; and right wing Brad Chartrand, 24. Joe Paterson was named head
coach of the Louisville Panthers, the American Hockey League affiliate of the
Panthers that will begin play this fall. Paterson, 39, was an assistant for the
AHL's Beast of New Haven the past two seasons.

TENNIS: Monica Seles said she has taken some time off to recover from an injury
she discovered after losing to Mirjana Lucic in the third round at Wimbledon.
She said she had fluid in the bones of her feet. She likely will just play
doubles for the United States in the Fed Cup semifinals this weekend against
Italy. Defending champion Gustavo Kuerten quit after 37 minutes of his match at
the Mercedes Cup in Stuttgart, Germany, because of fatigue from the Davis Cup.
Kuerten was trailing Magnus Norman 5-2 in the first set of the second-round
match. Last weekend, he played a five-setter and two three-setters in Brazil's
3-2 loss to France. Wild-card entry Taylor Dent beat fifth-seeded Andre Sa 7-5,
6-1 in the third round of the CNA ProTennis Classic in Winnetka, Ill.

SOFTBALL: The first-place FireStix are scheduled to travel to Gastonia, N.C., to
meet the Diamonds in an eight-game series in August. Three of the games are
rescheduled from June, when they were rained out. The games are scheduled from
Aug. 11-15.

HORSE RACING: Mythical Gem, who broke his left front ankle while winning the
Lexington Stakes at New York's Belmont Park, has been euthanized. The 3-year-old
colt, who posted four wins and a second in eight starts and earned $ 161,820,
fractured the cannon bone and sesamoids in the ankle and was put down Monday
night after veterinarians were unable to repair the damage. The sesamoids injury
was the problem.

BASKETBALL: A turnover by Steve Nash on the final possession allowed Puerto Rico
to defeat Canada 80-75 in an Olympic qualifier game in San Juan, Puerto Rico.
Under a complicated tiebreaking formula, Puerto Rico needed to win by at least
four points to avoid playing the United States in the semifinals. Nash brought
the ball upcourt with 18 seconds left and Canada trailing by five. He threw a
crosscourt pass that was picked off. Sherman Hamilton of Canada stole the ball
back and shot a  three-pointer at the buzzer, but it missed. The result set up a
likely semifinal rematch between Puerto Rico and Canada on Saturday, when one of
two berths in the 2000 Olympics will be at stake. Fort Lauderdale's Keyon
Dooling, who plays at Missouri, had 18 points and four steals to lead the USA
men to an 84-70 victory over Russia in the Junior World Championships in Almada,
Portugal. The USA (6-1) will meet Croatia (5-1) in Saturday's semifinals.

BOXING: Buster Douglas, who shocked the world when he knocked out then-unbeaten
Mike Tyson in 1990, is on the short list of possible opponents for Tyson's
comeback fight on Oct. 2. However, Dan Goossen, Tyson's promoter, said
lesser-known Orlin Norris and Zeljko Mavrovic are the leading candidates.
Goossen said Douglas is asking for too much money.

- Compiled from staff, wire reports.


LOAD-DATE: July 22, 1999

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: BLACK AND WHITE PHOTO, Associated Press; Maurice Greene celebrates
after winning the 200-meter men's race in a Golden League meet in Paris. He won
in 20.13 seconds. Francis Obikwelu was second in 20.20.

TYPE: DIGEST

                    Copyright 1999 Times Publishing Company


                              189 of 280 DOCUMENTS

                         St. Petersburg Times (Florida)

                July 30, 1999, Friday, 0 South Pinellas Edition

Both parties agree: INS needs fixing

BYLINE: SARA FRITZ

SECTION: NATIONAL; Pg. 8A

LENGTH: 1531 words

DATELINE: WASHINGTON



In an era of intense partisanship in Congress, there seems to be at least one
topic on which both Republicans and Democrats agree: The Immigration and
Naturalization Service is a mess.

"This agency is incapable of functioning," Rep. Harold Rogers, R-Ky., declared
at a House Judiciary subcommittee hearing held Thursday to review the operations
of the INS. ". . . I don't think anyone can manage this agency."

"The INS is badly broken and struggles with a lack of accountability," added
Rep. Silvestre Reyes, D-Texas. ". . . We must act now to improve our immigration
system."

Even INS Commissioner Doris Meissner, who has headed the agency for six years,
acknowledged the problems are serious.

"I want to fundamentally change this agency," she told the panel, which was
exploring several different legislative proposals for revamping INS.

There are numerous reasons why members on both sides of the aisle have decided
that INS needs help. Among them: The agency failed to hire 1,000 new Border
Patrol agents as mandated by law in 1996; there is a backlog of nearly 2-million
people seeking naturalization; and, just recently, the agency released from
custody a suspect in serial killings, Angel Maturino Resendez,  whose name was
at that time being put on the FBI's Ten Most Wanted List.

But none of these reasons have made as big an impression on members of Congress
as the rapidly rising number of immigrant complaints against INS received by
their congressional offices. According to Rogers, congressional staffers now
spend more time on constituent problems with INS than any other topic -
including Social Security and Medicare.

John Wood, who works in the office of Rep. Bob Clement, D-Tenn., told the panel
that he devoted no more than 20 percent of his time to immigration problems in
1988 but that they now preoccupy him about 60 percent of the time. On any given
day, he said, he will be seeking help for at least 150 constituents having
problems navigating the INS bureaucracy.

"The feedback I get is that the INS is often inaccessible to the public," Wood
said. ". . . Constituents often call me because they have been unable to reach
the INS by phone. They often run into recording after recording and are not able
to talk to an individual."

Beatriz Mancilla, immigration caseworker for Rep. Pete Hoekstra, R-Mich., said
it is now so difficult for immigrants to reach the INS by telephone that they
view getting help from their Congress member as "a necessary step in obtaining
immigration assistance."

On Jan. 23, 1998, Mancilla said, she made a telephone inquiry to the Los Angeles
INS office about a constituent case. Sixty days later, she said, she received a
letter referring to this case that said:

"Due to the large volume of inquiries pending and the need to serve other
congressional/senatorial offices as well, this inquiry will be researched and
responded to on a case-by-case basis. It is our goal to respond to inquiries in
a timely manner."

Mancilla said she still has not received a reply to her inquiry, and the
applicants she was seeking to help recently gave up and returned to Mexico.

"The family stopped by two weeks ago and said goodbye to me and that they
appreciated all our efforts, but they felt that after nine years of not knowing
what immigration benefits they qualified for was enough," Mancilla said. "If
this is how the American government treated those who have complied with all
these regulations, they wanted no part of it."

Another witness, Elizabeth Vuna, who handles constituent services for Rep. Steve
Horn, R-Calif., told stories about immigrants whose files were lost by INS or
whose files contained inaccurate information. One who received a green card from
INS in the wrong name, she said, was forced to make a new application and pay
the fee a second time even though it was an INS error.

Yet even though complaints against INS were voiced by Democrats as well as
Republicans, members of the two parties broke ranks on a solution.

Republicans on the panel favored legislation introduced recently by Rogers and
Reyes that would split INS into two separate agencies, one focusing on immigrant
services and the other on enforcement of the laws against illegal immigrants.
The directors of the two agencies would both report directly to the attorney
general, who currently oversees INS.

Several members of Congress from Florida have co-sponsored this legislation,
including Allen Boyd Jr., D-Tallahassee; Charles T. Canady, R-Lakeland; Tillie
K. Fowler, R-Jacksonville; Dan Miller, R-Bradenton; and Ileana Ros-Lehtinen,
R-Miami.

Democrats, on the other hand, said they favored an administration plan that
would split the two functions but keep them both under the management of a
single INS commissioner.

Rep. Sheila Jackson-Lee, D-Texas, has written a bill similar to the
administration plan. She said she opposes the Rogers-Reyes bill because she
feared all of the money would be shifted to enforcement at the expense of
services. She suggested that the enforcement agency would become "a new FBI of
immigration."

Like most Democrats on the House panel, Rep. Barney Frank, D-Mass., said he
would be opposed to dividing the INS in two. He suggested that many of the INS
problems were created not only by the rapid growth of the immigrant population
but also by what he described as "excessively harsh" restrictions that Congress
imposed on immigrants in recent years.

Rep. Zoe Lofgren, D-Calif., said she opposes the GOP plan because "instead of
one dysfunctional agency, we could end up with two dysfunctional agencies."


LOAD-DATE: July 30, 1999

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                    Copyright 1999 Times Publishing Company


                              190 of 280 DOCUMENTS

                         St. Petersburg Times (Florida)

                            July 20, 1996, Saturday

Archbishop: Clinton 'hates' school bill

SECTION: HERNANDO TIMES; BRIEFLY; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 394 words



President Clinton has told Archbishop Theodore McCarrick of Newark, N.J.,  that
he "hates" provisions of a House-passed bill that would allow states to  end
schooling for the children of illegal immigrants.

"The president hates the Gallegly provisions, and "hate' is his word,"
McCarrick said after a White House meeting Wednesday. McCarrick, the former
chairman of the Bishops Committee on Migration and one of the church's leading
experts on immigrant matters, referred to the school-denial legislation
sponsored by Rep. Elton Gallegly, R-Calif.

"I said we do, too, and we feel this is bad law. We feel it makes kids  suffer
for whatever the faults of their parents have been," McCarrick said."

Gallegly spokesman Jim Maiella said, "Congressman Gallegly hates the idea  of
continuing to force American taxpayers to continue educating those with no
legal right to be in this country."

University creates

suicide studies post

   The first chair for suicide studies in North America has been created at  the
University of Toronto by a woman whose 36-year-old son killed himself.

"After Arthur's death, I immediately felt I wished to honor him because he  was
such a brilliant young man," Doris Sommer-Rotenberg of Toronto told the  Reuter
news agency.

Her son, a family doctor, committed suicide after fighting depression for  half
of his life.

Sommer-Rotenberg approached officials at the university, which is Canada's
largest, and they promised to help endow a chair if she raised $ 1-million
Canadian (about $ 730,000 in U.S. currency). "We collected more than a million
dollars and the University of Toronto matched it with another million," she
said.

The school plans to fill the chair by September and start the program by
January, said Paul Garfinkel, chairman of the University's psychiatry
department.

Commission to study

effects of gambling

   The U.S. Senate approved the establishment of a two-year federal commission
to study the effects of gambling on individuals and the nation.

The bill, which passed Wednesday by a voice vote, was sent to the House of
Representatives, which approved a similar measure in March.

Sen. Paul Simon, D-Ill., one of the sponsors of the legislation, called
gambling "the fastest-growing industry" in the nation.

LOAD-DATE: July 22, 1996

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DISTRIBUTION: HERNANDO TIMES

TYPE: DIGEST

                    Copyright 1996 Times Publishing Company


                              191 of 280 DOCUMENTS

                         St. Petersburg Times (Florida)

               August 19, 1996, Monday, 0 South Pinellas Edition

MIAMI'S separate worlds

SOURCE: Special to the St. Petersburg Times

BYLINE: DAVID POPPE

SECTION: BUSINESS; COVER STORY; Pg. 8

LENGTH: 1815 words

DATELINE: MIAMI



On the 21st floor of a gleaming Brickell Avenue high-rise overlooking  Biscayne
Bay, Cuban-born lawyer Carlos Loumiet looks right at home as he chats  at a
cocktail reception with the former president of Panama, Nicholas Ardito
Barletta.

Ardito Barletta is in town trying to stir investor interest in Panama.  Loumiet,
Yale-educated and trilingual, heads the international practice of  Miami's
biggest law firm, Greenberg Traurig.

These days, more and more foreign business leaders are seeking out Miami
professionals like Loumiet, whose international department has tripled in size
in six years. "There's no question in my mind that since the Latin American
barriers started falling in, say, 1990, the demand for international
professional services in Miami has grown dramatically," Loumiet says.

But a few miles west of downtown, in the heart of Little Havana, Gustavo  Carion
sees a different side of Miami.

"It's really hard to find work," says Carion, director of the refugee
resettlement program for the Catholic Archdiocese of Miami. Last year, the
archdiocese provided employment counseling to 8,500 immigrants who entered the
country from the Guantanamo refugee camp.

"People come here for family reasons," he says. "They feel if they don't  live
in Miami they are not living in the U.S. We encourage them, "go to  Chicago, go
to New York,' but they want to stay here."

Every morning, scores of immigrants line Calle Ocho, one of Miami's most  famous
streets, in hopes of being offered day labor. A day's work might pay as  little
as $ 30 or $ 40, and just by gathering, the immigrants risk being rounded  up by
police for loitering. These would-be workers often live with relatives  or crowd
into homes that are rented by the room.

As a result, many inner-city homes in Miami have been turned into boarding
houses, with more people squeezed into neighborhoods than were ever meant to
live there. "This is, to me, a ticking time bomb," says Anita Bock, top
administrator for Florida's Department of Health and Rehabilitative Services  in
Dade.

Miami is proud of its immigrant culture; it bills itself as the Capital of  the
Americas. The city has a Spanish-speaking business and social climate that
Latin America loves, plus airline connections that make it a major commercial
hub.

Dozens of multinational companies have Latin American headquarters here.
Tourism is at record levels, and international banks are thriving. Luxury
high-rise condominiums catering to an international clientele are popping up
all along the waterfront.

And Miami's sunny weather, Art Deco architecture and Latin cachet have made  it
a popular location for film and TV production. Recent movies like Miami
Rhapsody and The Birdcage enhance the city's glitzy image.

But the unending stream of immigrants also has created a Miami of  chronically
high unemployment and low wages, burdened by a growing underclass  of people
without skills or education. Now the city is faced with the  challenge of
growing its economy in ways that can put these people to work.

Jerry Haar, director of the Inter-American Business & Labor Program at the
University of Miami, goes so far as to call Miami "the best-developed Third
World city in the world."

Increasingly, business and civic leaders agree that Miami needs to improve  its
public education system and attract more industry if it is to assimilate  its
swelling population of unskilled immigrants. Without a major effort, these
newcomers may not find it possible to support themselves, much less contribute
economically to Dade County.

The influx and the exodus

  For the most part, newcomers to Miami "tend to be poorly educated, poorly
trained and poorly equipped to survive, let alone thrive in the marketplace,"
Haar says.

It doesn't help that Miami and surrounding Dade County have a  service-oriented
economy that does not produce the goods being shipped through  its ports. The
trade boom has not generated a corresponding leap in  manufacturing employment.

The result is that one-fourth of Dade households survive on income of less  than
$ 15,000 per year. A 1994 University of Pittsburgh study of 50 U.S.
metropolitan areas found that Miami had the highest percentage of people
earning below the poverty line.

And as immigrants keep moving in, the middle class is moving out. By some
estimates, more than 100,000 people, or 5 percent of the county's population,
have moved to neighboring Broward County since Hurricane Andrew in 1992.  Today,
45 percent of Dade's population is foreign-born.

The unemployment rate in Dade is 7.3 percent, compared with 5.2 percent in
Broward and 4.9 percent for the state overall. And Dade created just 22,000  new
jobs last year, a modest 2.3 percent expansion to its 950,000-person work
force. In comparison, Broward added new jobs at a 4.4 percent growth rate.

Not surprisingly, sluggish job creation coupled with a rising population of
low-skill workers is keeping wages at depressed levels. The state estimates
that 10 percent of all workers in Dade earn the minimum wage.

"It's so hard to find work," says social worker Carion. "Even if you are  a
busboy or a waiter, you have to be bilingual."

The problem may get much worse in coming years. A recent report issued by  the
Greater Miami Chamber of Commerce forecasts that 500,000 people will move  into
Dade County between now and 2005, half of them working-age adults.

Meanwhile, the chamber estimates the local economy will create only 135,000  new
jobs by 2005, leaving a shortfall of roughly 120,000 jobs. (Dade's overall
population is not expected to grow by 500,000 by 2005, because as new folks
move in, others will move to Broward and commute to work in Dade.)

In addition to the immigration boom, the state Department of Health and
Rehabilitative Services says there are 40,000 adults in Dade receiving Aid to
Families with Dependent Children who stand to lose their government benefits  in
two years under Florida's tough new welfare reforms.

Bock, HRS' top administrator in Dade, says many of these people won't be  able
to find work to replace welfare. "I have 40,000 women coming off AFDC in  two
years," she says. "I don't know how we are going to create 40,000 jobs  in two
years' time."

Haar, the University of Miami academic, is critical of the attitude local
leaders have toward the jobs problem.

"The gap between rich and poor is widening," he says. "The job growth is  not
keeping up with what is needed. You have a brain-drain of people to  Broward and
Palm Beach.

"We are five to 10 years late in terms of building the kind of economic  base we
need to support the growth and development of this region. I've got  real
reservations as for what the future is going to bring for us."

"A challenge we've got to face'

   But now, the Miami business community has begun to act. The Greater Miami
Chamber of Commerce recently commissioned a task force of 27 business and  civic
leaders to study ways to bring more jobs to town.

The group's initial report targeted seven industries that seemed to have  good
potential for growth and urged local leaders to focus recruiting efforts  on
them. The industries are biomedical, film and entertainment, financial
services, information technology and computer software, international trade,
telecommunications and tourism.

Jay Malina, the chairman of the task force and also president of an  exporting
company, says the community must find ways to move more people into  the middle
class.

"I won't call anything a crisis," he says. "I would say it is a  challenge we've
got to face in the next 10 years. And I think it's our most  critical
challenge."

Malina says the seven industries were chosen for their ability to create
entry-level jobs that might lead to higher-paying work. In biomedical, for
example, Dade would like to target manufacturers of medical instruments that
would create blue-collar jobs, but also sales, marketing and professional
employment.

It may be difficult to attract high-paying industries to Dade, however,  because
the overall education level of the population is low. Just under 19  percent of
Dade adults age 25 and older have college degrees, and only 65  percent have at
least a high school diploma. Nationally, 21 percent of adults  have bachelor's
degrees and 80 percent are high school graduates.

One local economist, former Bush administration official J. Antonio  Villamil,
argues that business leaders err in believing they can fix Dade's  problems by
targeting industries. He says local leaders ought to be addressing  problems in
the public schools and with congested roads, the lack of  affordable housing and
the crime rate. Dade's congressional leaders ought to  be pushing harder for
expansion of NAFTA and other free trade accords that  will bring goods and
people to Miami, Villamil says.

"There is too much effort on targeting industries rather than creating an
environment where industries will want to be here. If the environment is  right,
business will have to come to Miami," he says.

New home, new hope

   Back on Calle Ocho, where the archdiocese is holding classes for new
immigrants, this debate is a mere abstraction. On a recent morning, teacher
Louise Eckels Fericelli advises a group of seven people who have been in the
country just three weeks on how to use a telephone book, dress for a job
interview and write a resume.

The new arrivals - all victims of political persecution in Cuba - say  they're
excited to be in Miami and ready to work to build a new life.

Raul Aguilera, 57, is in class with his wife, Lydia, and two adult  children,
Raul Jr. and Mabel. Aguilera says he's prepared to work 10 more  years in Miami,
if necessary, to start a new life for his family.

"At least here there is a possibility that there is a future," Aguilera  says in
Spanish. "In Cuba, life is day by day."

Classmate Yelda Marchan nods in agreement. Her husband was a doctor in  Cuba,
but still the family had to sell bread, fish and pork to make extra  money. Her
father spent three years in prison in the 1960s for trying to leave  the island.
She doubts life in Miami could ever be so difficult.

"In Cuba, you work and get nothing. At least here, you work eight hours  and you
get enough money to eat," she says.

These seven are motivated, well-educated immigrants, all intent on learning
English and working. Yet during a class break, their teacher says she worries
they won't feel so optimistic in a few months, after they've started job
hunting.

"They're on their honeymoon right now," she says.

- David Poppe is the South Florida editor for Florida Trend magazine.

LOAD-DATE: August 20, 1996

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: COLOR PHOTO, BRIAN BAER, (5); COLOR GRAPH; The outdoor bars and cafes
that line Miami Beach add to the city's glitzy image., (ran cover); Yelda
Marchan attends a course for new immigrants., (ran cover); Head of the
international department of Miami's Greenberg Traurig law firm, Cuban-born
lawyer Carlos Loumiet sits in his office overlooking Miami.;  Ania Fregio
listens during a lesson on applying for jobs. She recently came to Miami with
her husband and his family to escape political persecution in Cuba.; Jay Malina
in a field with a plane flying behind him.; various graphs compare Broward and
Dade counties in regards to race, population growth, per capita income and
households by income

                    Copyright 1996 Times Publishing Company


                              192 of 280 DOCUMENTS

                         St. Petersburg Times (Florida)

             September 10, 1996, Tuesday, 0 South Pinellas Edition

Gibbons' ex-aide to plead guilty

BYLINE: KATHERINE SHAVER

SECTION: CITY & STATE; Pg. 1B

LENGTH: 406 words

DATELINE: TAMPA



A former aide to U.S. Rep. Sam Gibbons agreed Monday to plead guilty to  cashing
in on immigrants' false hopes that she would get them legal residency  in the
United States.

Edna T. Taylor, who worked as a staff assistant for Gibbons, D-Tampa, until  the
FBI began investigating her last year, accepted $ 400,000 from more than  1,000
immigrants, according to the U.S. Attorney's Office in Tampa.

But often, authorities said, Taylor didn't deliver what she promised.

"Congressman Gibbons was in no way involved in Taylor's illegal activities  and
has cooperated fully with the investigation," said a statement that the  U.S.
Attorney's Office faxed to the news media Monday night.

As part of the scheme, authorities said, Taylor took money from members of
Seventh-day Adventist churches in Florida, saying she would get them residency
through a special program for church workers. But that program did not apply  to
the people whom Taylor charged money, authorities said.

In one case, authorities said, Taylor charged $ 1,000 and said she would get
permanent U.S. residency for two foreign pastors who wanted to work in
Seventh-day Adventist churches in Florida.

Taylor also admitted accepting $ 2,700 to help a Jamaican man get legal
residency and instead forged documents to submit to the U.S. Immigration and
Naturalization Service, authorities said. Taylor forged a letter from a
Seventh-day Adventist Church saying the man had been hired for a full-time
church position when he had not, the release said.

Taylor told people that "mere membership in the Seventh-day Adventists  church
made them eligible to become permanent legal residents," the U.S.  Attorney's
Office said. ". . . Taylor accepted money from these aliens  knowing that few,
if any, of them were eligible for permanent residency  status."

Taylor agreed to plead guilty to four federal charges, including devising  and
carrying out a scheme to defraud and accepting gratuities for official  acts
performed, making false statments to the INS, and accepting compensation  for
services related to matters in which the United States had a substantial
interest.

She now awaits the entering of a formal guilty plea and sentencing, which  could
be up to 19 years in prison, authorities said.

Taylor could not be reached Monday night at her home at 17440 Isabell Lane  in
Odessa. Gibbons also could not be reached.

LOAD-DATE: September 11, 1996

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DISTRIBUTION: CITY & STATE; METRO & STATE; TAMPA & STATE

                    Copyright 1996 Times Publishing Company


                              193 of 280 DOCUMENTS

                         St. Petersburg Times (Florida)

             September 21, 1996, Saturday, 0 South Pinellas Edition

Behind statistics of deported aliens are tales of human suffering

SECTION: EDITORIAL; LETTERS; Pg. 15A

LENGTH: 688 words



It is with profound sadness that I write this letter as a response to the
recent deportation of 23 of our Mexican brothers and sisters. So often the
hysterical rhetoric regarding the immigration issue overshadows the human
tragedy of immigration. We hear statistics rather than stories, stories of
lives mired in human suffering.

Recently, a number of Mexican immigrants were arrested as they began their
workday at a laundry in Clearwater. One of the local papers stated that 23
alleged illegal aliens were picked up during a morning raid. What the paper
neglected to mention were the human stories behind that statistic. During the
raid, wives were separated from husbands and children from their mothers. The
stability and integrity of families were torn asunder.

In one instance, a young mother was separated from her 11-month-old child.  The
mother never received the opportunity to contact her family or check on  her
infant. One can only imagine the extent of her pain.

Consider also the plight of a young wife forced to abandon her husband who
suffers from rheumatic heart disease. The husband frantically called the local
church in order to find his wife, who, knowing that she is her husband's sole
health provider, remained in jail unable to contact her husband.

I mention only two of the 23 stories of human suffering which reflect the
growing tragedy of the immigration issue. Our common dignity as human beings
calls us to respect the alien among us, regardless of their status or social
position. A preferential love for the poor and disenfranchised is a sure sign
of one's Christian identity.

In this spirit I must condemn the inhumane treatment of these brothers and
sisters in Christ. The fact that these deportees were not allowed to contact
their families or retrieve any of their belongings is particularly
reprehensible. Within 24 hours of their arrest, they were returned to Mexico
with only the clothes on their backs and released into a remote area without
food, water or the financial means to return to their towns.

While I respect our nation's right to control its own borders, I also  recognize
the right of each human person trapped in a system of injustice,  massive
poverty and oppression to seek relief from such an inhumane situation.  Crushing
poverty and lack of educational and employment opportunities have led  many to
seek a better life for their families here in the United States.

I appreciate that this is a particularly thorny issue, especially in an
election year, yet we must not forget our duty to respect and uphold the
dignity of each and every human being. Our immigrants should not be used as
pawns in the political arena. Recent immigration legislation has been
particularly deplorable since it makes it practically impossible for any
immigrant to legally enter the country. Such restrictive immigration
legislation is quite shameful and thoroughly contrary to our tradition in this
country: "Give me your tired, your poor, your huddled masses yearning to
breathe free . . . Send these, the homeless, tempest-tossed, to me." Our  great
national tradition as well as our Judeo-Christian heritage oblige us to  treat
all with love and compassion. We must be a sanctuary of hope and light  to those
who are in our midst. Regardless of one's legal status, each person  must be
afforded human dignity and respect.

As a sacrament of unity, the church is not foreign to anyone nor is anyone  a
stranger in the church. The human person, particularly if he is weak,
defenseless or driven to the margins of society, is a sacrament of Christ's
presence. Jesus asks us to recognize him in the "stranger" among us (Matthew
25:35). For the Christian, such recognition and hospitality is fidelity to
one's identity as a follower of Christ.

May Our Lady of Guadalupe, Patroness of Americas and Mother of us all,  protect
us and help us to be loving and compassionate as we strive to give  glory to her
Son.

Most Rev. Robert N. Lynch, bishop,

Catholic Diocese of St. Petersburg

LOAD-DATE: September 23, 1996

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: LETTER

                    Copyright 1996 Times Publishing Company


                              194 of 280 DOCUMENTS

                         St. Petersburg Times (Florida)

                 October 11, 1996, Friday, 2 Late Tampa Edition

October infused with Latin flavor

BYLINE: LISSETTE CORSA GRANDI

SECTION: TAMPA & STATE; ON CAMPUS; Pg. 4B

LENGTH: 681 words

DATELINE: TAMPA



In 1989, the first year the University of South Florida had a Hispanic  Heritage
Celebration, the festivities amounted to a single reception. Seven  years later,
the annual monthlong event has grown to include dozens of  activities all over
campus.

Fourteen USF colleges and organizations now take part in the Hispanic  Heritage
Celebration, sponsoring activities ranging from discussions on  immigration and
human rights to sessions on how to develop a healthy Latin  diet.

The bulk of the celebration takes place during October, a nationally  designated
month for the celebration of Hispanic heritage. On Saturday,  Hispanics will
march in Washington, D.C., to focus attention on Hispanic  issues and
immigration rights.

"I see a new Latino movement forming," said Maura Barrios, coordinator  of the
immigration series at USF. "People are starting to get excited about  Hispanic
heritage. This celebration isn't just for Hispanics, it's for  everyone. It's
part of our national history."

Donna Parrino, director of community relations for USF's Latin Advisory
Committee and organizer of the celebration, said the Hispanic Heritage
Celebration balances cultural awareness with entertainment.

"We'd like for it be kind of college-centered. We hope to bring issues  that are
of interest to everyone to the forefront, as well as issues of  delight,"
Parrino said.

One of the most important events during the month is the four-part series  on
immigration. The idea to hold extensive discussions on this topic came out  of a
debate within the Latin Advisory Committee. That, along with the national
controversy over immigration and benefits for immigrants, prompted Barrios to
organize the forums.

"Immigration is the big topic right now. California and Florida are taking  the
lead in the anti-immigrant movement and that affects Latin Americans,"  Barrios
said.

The series focuses on the legal, historical, socio-economic and political
aspects of immigration. On Oct. 2, a panel discussed proposed changes to
immigration policies at the federal and state levels. During "Back to the
Past," a discussion Wednesday, three USF faculty members placed the
relationship between immigration and nativist sentiments in a historical
context. On Oct. 23, a panel of economists and social scientists take on the
socio-economic elements of immigration. A look at politicians' responses to  the
immigration debate will come Oct. 30.

Armando Valladares, ex-political prisoner from Cuba and former U.S.  ambassador
to the Geneva Human Rights Conference, pledged his devotion to the  respect of
human dignity worldwide in a lecture last week that was part of the  month's
activities.

Valladares spent 22 years in prison under Fidel Castro's regime for  expressing
his sentiments against the government to his co-workers. He related  his
experiences in Cuban prisons plagued with torture and death and talked of  his
current work.

"Since my release from prison, I have struggled against the violation of  human
rights. I firmly believe that the most important thing of all is the  respect
for human dignity," Valladares said.

Barrios hopes that with the growing interest and quality of the programs,  the
observance of Hispanic Heritage, in all aspects, will become a permanent  part
of the USF culture.

"We want it to be part of what the university does all year around. We  want it
to be included in the university curriculum, in the university  experience
totally," Barrios said.

Yet while bundling the celebration of Hispanic roots into a month of
festivities might seem to undermine the diversity of races, cultures and even
languages that fall under the umbrella term "Hispanic," Parrino said for now
the ends justify the means.

"In an ideal pluralistic society, we would celebrate cultures on a daily  basis
- that's what we should shoot for. But until we reach that wonderful
pluralistic society, this is what we do now, while at the same time working on
a year-round celebration," Parrino said.

LOAD-DATE: October 11, 1996

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DISTRIBUTION: TAMPA & STATE

GRAPHIC: BLACK AND WHITE PHOTO, JIM STEM; Human rights activist Armando
Valladares speaks at the University of South Florida last week.

                    Copyright 1996 Times Publishing Company


                              195 of 280 DOCUMENTS

                         St. Petersburg Times (Florida)

             October 30, 1996, Wednesday, 0 South Pinellas Edition

FBI looking into how agents treated Jewell

SOURCE: Compiled from Times Wires

SECTION: NATIONAL; IN BRIEF; Pg. 3A

LENGTH: 574 words

DATELINE: WASHINGTON; LAPORTE, Pa.; NEW YORK



The FBI disclosed Tuesday that it has been investigating how its agents
questioned Atlanta security guard Richard Jewell and whether they played a  role
in leaking his name as a suspect in the Olympic bombing.

FBI Director Louis J. Freeh announced in a written statement that he had  opened
the leak investigation Aug. 1 and the investigation of Jewell's  interrogation
Sept. 27.

Both inquiries are continuing, Freeh said.

Jewell has since been cleared of suspicion.

Federal investigators continue to study more than 200 rolls of videotape  and
still photographs taken at the park near the time of the July 27 bomb  blast.
They also have started interviewing bomb victims again.

FBI spokesman Jay Spadafore said Tuesday he could not comment on what  direction
the investigation is now taking.

Immigrant claim disputed

   WASHINGTON - No more than 1,300 immigrants may have become naturalized U.S.
citizens improperly in the last year and even that number is "very
preliminary," the country's immigration chief said Tuesday.

Doris Meissner, commissioner of the Immigration and Naturalization Service,
said reports that as many as 50,000 may be in that category were exaggerated
and unfair. She said the INS is making a "thorough, manual review" of each
case.

She said to date, the INS staff has found only 1,300 cases that merit  further
investigation.

Republicans charge that citizenship cases were rushed through by the INS in  an
election-year push to grant citizenship to 1.2-million potential Democratic
voters.

Questions about improper naturalization cropped up as Meissner announced  that
in the year ending Sept. 30, the INS deported 67,094 illegal aliens, a  record.
Meissner said the three-year total of deportations is 100,000 criminal  aliens,
and 160,000 if non-criminal violations are counted.

Abortion case conviction

   LAPORTE, Pa. - A woman who drove a 13-year-old girl across state lines to
avoid Pennsylvania's tough abortion laws was convicted Tuesday on a charge  that
could put her in jail for seven years.

"We never considered this case to be a challenge to abortion rights,"  said
District Attorney Max Little. "We considered it to be about the rights  of a
parent."

A jury found Rosa Hartford guilty of interfering with the custody of a  minor
when she drove the teen, who had been impregnated by her stepson, to an
abortion clinic in New York, where abortion laws are less restrictive.

Hartford's 19-year-old stepson pleaded guilty to statutory rape.

The girl's mother told the jury she found out about the pregnancy from her
daughter's friends when she discovered she was missing from school on Aug. 31,
1995.

Hartford, 39, faces up to seven years in prison on the third-degree felony
charge. Before the trial, Little said he would not seek a jail sentence - only
try to send a message. But Tuesday he said he would make no sentencing
recommendations.

Jet drags nose on landing

   NEW YORK - An American Airlines pilot made a tricky landing without front
wheels, scraping the plane's nose on the runway before bringing it safely to a
stop.

The 93 people aboard, including five crew members, evacuated down the  McDonnell
Douglas MD-80's chutes after Flight 346 from Chicago made the  emergency landing
Monday night at Kennedy International Airport. Three people  were slightly
injured.

LOAD-DATE: October 31, 1996

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: DIGEST

                    Copyright 1996 Times Publishing Company


                              196 of 280 DOCUMENTS

                         St. Petersburg Times (Florida)

               November 3, 1996, Sunday, 0 South Pinellas Edition

Sovereignty still a sore spot for Quebeckers

BYLINE: JIM FOX

SECTION: NATIONAL; THE CANADA REPORT; Pg. 15A

LENGTH: 698 words



One year ago Quebeckers voted by the slimmest of margins to keep the mainly
French-speaking province a part of Canada, and today feelings still run deep.

Rallies were held in major cities, including a 1,000-strong march in Quebec
City - the historic heart of Canada's New France - to show support a year  later
for a continued united Canada.

These days Quebec's independence drive is waning, said pollster Jean-Marc
Leger. But the ruling Parti Quebecois government, which has the province's
economic woes on its mind, dismisses the results.

In an article published by Montreal's Le Devoir newspaper, Jacques  Parizeau,
Quebec's former premier, warned "sovereignists" not to give up the  fight for
independence.

At issue now in La Belle Province is Premier Lucien Bouchard's  deficit-cutting
agenda, with deep spending cuts to education and health care.

Unemployment is 12 percent - 2 points higher than the national rate - and
voters are suffering from fatigue over the sovereignty issue, Leger said.

An angry crowd of 2,000 protesters rallied outside a Montreal hotel where a
Quebec economic summit meeting was held. They burned Bouchard in effigy to
protest government cutbacks and job losses.

Immigration curbs

The government has decided not to increase the number of immigrants allowed  to
settle in Canada. Immigration Minister Lucienne Robillard cited public
resentment that immigrants are a drag on the economy.

Canada expects to welcome between 195,000 and 220,000 immigrants next year,
about the same as this year, but more will be skilled workers and business
investors. There has been a big reduction in refugees and family-class
immigrants.

"People look around the streets and think Canada has become a United  Nations,"
said professor Irving Abella of York University in Toronto. "They  see too many
yellow and black and brown faces, and they don't like it."

From the west

 British Columbia Premier Glen Clark admits he failed to deliver on a  promise
to balance the province's budget. In a TV address costing $ 150,000  (Canadian),
Clark defended his record, saying he will attack the deficit by  firing 3,500
workers, making significant budget cuts and selling off assets.

A coroner's jury has made 24 recommendations, including tough new  inspection
rules and regulation of ski lifts, after the deaths last winter of  two men at
Whistler resort in British Columbia. Nine people were also injured  when several
chairs on a high-speed ski lift crashed to the ground.

Facts and figures

   Borrowers got another break last week as interest rates continued to slide.
The Bank of Canada cut its key rate to 3.5 percent, while the prime lending
rate fell to 5 percent, the lowest in 40 years.

Canada's dollar charged ahead to 74.98 U.S. cents while a U.S. dollar is  worth
$ 1.3336 Canadian (before exchange fees).

Stock markets were higher; Toronto's composite index was 5,583 points  Friday;
Montreal was 2,781 points; and Vancouver, 1,135 points.

Lotto 6-49: (Wednesday) 14, 19, 21, 25, 34 and 48; bonus 20. (Oct. 26) 1,  8, 9,
14, 37 and 45; bonus 10.

In brief

    Ontario was battered by cold, howling winds that brought snow to northern
regions and flurries in the Toronto area late in the week. The weather was
blamed for the traffic deaths of three people in Thorold at an intersection
where the wind blew down a stop sign.

Recent deaths include: Jack Reitman, founder of the 700-store clothing  chain,
Reitman's (Canada) Ltd., at age 86 in Montreal; Mervin Good Eagle, 19,  of Sandy
Bay, Saskatchewan, an actor in CBC TV's North of 60 series, by  suicide; Dr.
Kurt Freund, 82, retired sexologist at the Clarke Institute of  Psychiatry in
Toronto; and outspoken feminist Laura Sabia, 80, in Toronto.

Robert Hamilton, 34, of Guelph, Ontario, decided to play a little chess  last
weekend and ended up in the Guinness Book of World Records. His speed and
stamina made him a record holder after completing 703 consecutive chess games
in 30 1/2 hours. He lost only 22 games and had 25 draws in the games played on
24 chess boards in a mall.

LOAD-DATE: November 5, 1996

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                    Copyright 1996 Times Publishing Company


                              197 of 280 DOCUMENTS

                         St. Petersburg Times (Florida)

                            November 3, 1996, Sunday

SECTION: NEIGHBORHOOD TIMES; WHAT'S UP ON CAMPUS; Pg. 14

LENGTH: 184 words



 University of

South Florida

140 Seventh Ave. S

St. Petersburg

893-9160

Patrisia Gonzales, award-winning journalist, speaks on Our Migrant Border,
11:30 a.m. Monday in the Campus Activities Center, Room 109. Gonzales, whose
work centers on human rights and social movements in Mexico, talks about the
U.S. Border Patrol, immigration raids and interrogations, illegal aliens,
anti-immigrant sentiment and the "browning" of America.

+++

The Ted Shumate Group is the featured band at a jazz concert in the Bayboro
Cafe at 4 p.m. Wednesday. Guitarist Ted Shumate performed for years at the
Hurricane Restaurant before he recorded Gulfstream, a 1987 top-10 release. He
and his band play Latin jazz with an edge.

Area universities and colleges offer educational lectures and programs open to
the public. The Times lists these events in an occasional column. All events
are free unless otherwise indicated. Send information at least two weeks in
advance to Catherine Cushing, the Times, P.O. Box 1121, St. Petersburg, FL
33731.

LOAD-DATE: November 5, 1996

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: DIGEST

                    Copyright 1996 Times Publishing Company


                              198 of 280 DOCUMENTS

                         St. Petersburg Times (Florida)

               December 9, 1996, Monday, 0 South Pinellas Edition

'An angel here on Earth'

SECTION: FLORIDIAN; ALWAYS IN THE SPIRIT: People who make a daily difference in
our lives; Pg. 1D

LENGTH: 473 words



Name: Vy Corpe

Contribution: Since 1975 - and the fall of Saigon - Vy has been building
bridges and mediating vast cultural differences for Vietnamese immigrants.  Once
an immigrant herself, she travels Pinellas for the American Red Cross
translating, offering guidance, doing errands and helping refugees assimilate.
Her regular stops include the airport, workplaces (to translate job
assignments,) hospitals, police stations or Social Security offices.

Hometown: St. Petersburg

Age: 65

Family: Husband, Frank, a son and daughter

Profession: Retired case worker for Catholic Charities

Hobbies: Volunteering, gardening. She plants tropical trees, hot peppers  and
mint. As usual, many end up as gifts for friends.

Favorite holiday or tradition: The year is highlighted by Christmas -
thoroughly American with turkey and ham - and the Vietnamese (lunar) New Year
in late January with roast duck and stir fry.

Why she does what she does: In 1957, Mrs. Corpe emigrated to California  with
her new husband, who had been an early adviser in Vietnam. Stranded and
somewhat isolated, she wrote to an aunt back home for guidance. "I didn't
really have anyone," she says. "It's so hard for them when they come to this
country."  Her basic philosophy: "We all should do something to help others  -
not just friends but strangers."

Why it makes a difference: Because strangers become friends. She has no  idea
how many people she has helped in more than 20 years. "They are just a  lot of
good friends now."

Obstacle overcome: As a child, Mrs. Corpe fled her Hanoi home in  then-French
Indochina as fighting escalated between the French and Ho Chi  Minh's communist
party. After three years in exile, she returned to find the  family home
leveled. After emigrating to the United States, she watched her  country torn
apart by war. "I understand the refugees," she says simply.

What others say about Vy: "She is most kind, caring and helpful to me, an
elderly neighbor, and to others. An angel here on earth." - friend Marion
Spiller

What Vy says: "I'm just here to lend an ear and help where I can."

- Jennifer L. Stevenson

Deed for the day

   The Salvation Army wants you! The St. Petersburg branch has many projects  in
need of some holiday help, such as servers for Christmas meals, packers for
Christmas food baskets, toys, books and shoes for the annual gift distribution
and visitors for nursing and Veteran Administration homes. Year round, they
need day care help and counselors. In St. Petersburg, call 323-2222; New Port
Richey, call 376-3184; Port Richey, call 847-6321; in Tampa, 226-0055.

Thought of the day

   "Be kind to strangers for you may be entertaining angels in disguise,"  the
Bible - the apostle Paul in Hebrews 13:2.

LOAD-DATE: December 11, 1996

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: COLOR PHOTO, FRED VICTORIN; Vy Corpe

TYPE: SERIES

                    Copyright 1996 Times Publishing Company


                              199 of 280 DOCUMENTS

                         St. Petersburg Times (Florida)

             December 26, 1996, Thursday, 0 South Pinellas Edition

U.S. clarifies stance on refugees

SOURCE: Compiled from Times Wires

SECTION: NATIONAL; IN BRIEF; Pg. 3A

LENGTH: 559 words

DATELINE: WASHINGTON; ROCHESTER, Minn.; NEWTOWN, Pa.; WEST PLAM BEACH; SAN JOSE,
Calif.



The United States will try to send more Cuban refugees back home.

The Immigration and Naturalization Service sent out a directive on Dec. 6,
announcing the initiative. The State Department clarified it Tuesday by saying
Cubans who enter the United States illegally will be sent home, but only
provided the Castro government accepts them and guarantees they will not
mistreated.

Refugees who can show they are targets of political persecution and have  valid
asylum claims will not be sent home, the officials said.

The aim of the Dec. 6 decision is to deter illegal emigration from Cuba.

The United States has sought Cuba's willingness to take back illegal  refugees
since 1995. In talks Dec. 4-5, the Castro government was asked to  permit the
monitoring of the returned Cubans to guard against abuse, an  administration
official told the Associated Press.

Cuba seemed to take an open-minded position - neither accepting nor  rejecting
the U.S. initiative, the official said.

U.S. officials offered assurances that Cubans who reached the United States
before the Dec. 6 decision would be considered for U.S. admission unless they
had committed serious crimes.

Former Ark. governor receives new liver

   ROCHESTER, Minn. - Former Arkansas Gov. Jim Guy Tucker, who was convicted  of
fraud and conspiracy in a Whitewater-related trial, received a new liver
Wednesday, the Mayo Clinic said.

Tucker, 53, had chronic liver disease and had been on a transplant waiting  list
for four months. He is in stable condition, a hospital spokeswoman said.

Tucker was spared a prison term because of his health but sentenced to four
years' probation, and resigned from office on July 15. A judge released him
from 18 months of home detention so he could move to Rochester for the
transplant.

Teenager pleads innocent to menorah smashing

   NEWTOWN, Pa. - A teenager accused of smashing a Jewish family's menorah was
high on LSD and looking for random mischief, not acting out of ethnic hatred,
his lawyer said.

Richard Daniel Hudson, 18, has pleaded innocent to charges of ethnic
intimidation and criminal conspiracy. Two unidentified 17-year-olds were also
charged.

The crime prompted members of this community to add Hanukkah candelabras to
their Christmas decorations in a sign of unity.

Dead man's sons to get $ 2.3-million from grocery

   WEST PALM BEACH - A grocery chain has agreed to pay $ 2.35-million to the
family of a man who died while eight workers pinned him down because they
suspected him of shoplifting toothpaste and a toothbrush.

William Alexander, 33, died of asphyxiation on Aug. 5, 1995.

Albertsons Inc., based in Boise, Idaho, settled with his family by agreeing  to
provide $ 2.35-million over the next 20 years to Alexander's sons, Kyle, 16,
and Kory, 13.

Elsewhere . . .

     WASHINGTON - President Clinton gave his wife, Hillary, a long-time  Chicago
Cubs fan, Mudville Diaries, a book of baseball memories collected by  Mike
Schacht, a White House spokesman said. Details of other gifts were not
available.

SAN JOSE, Calif. - A bomb threat forced the evacuation of a Mexicana  Airlines
jet preparing for takeoff to Guadalajara, Mexico, stranding 163  travelers for
nearly five hours. No bomb was found.

LOAD-DATE: December 26, 1996

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: DIGEST

                    Copyright 1996 Times Publishing Company


                              200 of 280 DOCUMENTS

                         St. Petersburg Times (Florida)

             January 29, 1997, Wednesday, 0 South Pinellas Edition

Citizenship quest stalls after trip

BYLINE: JUDY HARRIMAN

SECTION: FLORIDIAN; ACTION; Pg. 2D

LENGTH: 734 words



I applied for, was interviewed and accepted for U.S. citizenship in May 1995.
The Immigration and Naturalization Service notified me that I would be sworn  in
as a citizen on Aug. 31 of that year.

However, family circumstances made it necessary for me to be in Scotland  then
with my 90-year-old father.

I immediately returned the INS notice and explained that I could not  appear. I
asked for a second date but heard nothing.

Since then I have written several more letters without getting a reply.

I also wrote to my congressman explaining that my husband was running for  the
Florida House of Representatives and that I would like to become a citizen  so I
could vote for him.

Still no word from INS. The only response I got was from the congressman  saying
that my file had apparently been sent to Miami and that I should wait  to hear.

My three children were sworn in in August 1995. I am still waiting to hear.
Please help! Heather Steighner

Response: We wrote to the INS last October and the end of November without
getting a response.

So we called the INS toll-free number, (800) 375-5283, and managed to get
through to a human being. She said she would pass along your information to an
immigration officer who takes on "hard cases."

We were pleasantly surprised to have that officer call us back a week later  to
say that your file was transferred from Miami to Tampa in November. The  Tampa
office will contact you, she said, but suggested you give them until the  end of
February to do so.

Let us know how you fare. The INS is chronically short staffed, but  miracles do
happen.

Missing items on the way

  I broke Action's cardinal rule and did not keep the mailing address for
Beautiful Images.

As you can see, I ordered some items on Oct. 18, and Beautiful Images  cashed my
check. However, the items were never sent.

I don't know of any way to correct this problem other than contacting you.  I
haven't seen their ad in the newspaper since then. Jack Trumble

Response: Your order was shipped Oct. 22, say the folks at Beautiful  Images.
Because you said you never got them, they have been reshipped. Happy  to hear
you got them.

Affordable insurance

  Is there a state agency that will help a person on a very low income get
cheaper car insurance?

I rent an apartment and pay for sewer and water and health insurance. I  simply
cannot afford to pay $ 850 a year for car insurance.

Last year I drove less than 1,000 miles and only got insurance to protect  the
other driver and cover property damage. What do you suggest? C.C.

Response: We know of no agency that subsidizes car insurance.

If you have shopped around and still find the cost prohibitive, you may  wish to
consider selling your car and using that money and the amount you  would save
(by not paying for gas, upkeep, insurance and tags) to use private  or public
transportation.

Right now you are paying around $ 1 per mile, so it may be more cost  effective
for you to take a taxi or bus, or offer to buy gas or lunch for a  car-owning
friend or neighbor.

Charging for records

  My good friend and family doctor died suddenly. A new doctor took over his
practice, but after one appointment I decided to change doctors.

I made an appointment with another doctor, who gave me a physical checkup  and
said he would request my medical records. I then received a letter saying  the
charge for my old records would be $ 16.

I called several doctors and asked if this charging for old records was
standard procedure. They said they had never heard of it and that it was
unprofessional.

My question: Is it legal to hold my records for ransom? Whom do I contact  about
this holdup? Fred Ottinger

Response: It has been our experience that doctors usually send a patient's
records to another doctor without charge as a professional courtesy.

However, state law says that a doctor is entitled by law to charge you for
them, but no more than the actual cost of copying, including reasonable staff
time.

If you have a question for Action, or your attempts to resolve a consumer
complaint have failed, write: Times Action, P.O. Box 1121, St. Petersburg, FL
33731, or call your Action number, 893-8171, or, outside of Pinellas, (800)
333-7505, ext. 8171, to leave a recorded request for Action.

LOAD-DATE: January 30, 1997

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: COLUMN

                    Copyright 1997 Times Publishing Company


                              201 of 280 DOCUMENTS

                         St. Petersburg Times (Florida)

                             March 16, 1997, Sunday

Hassle-free entry into the U.S.

SOURCE: Compiled from Wire Reports

SECTION: TRAVEL; Pg. 4E

LENGTH: 199 words



After three years of apparent fraud-free use at Kennedy International Airport
in New York, Newark International Airport and Lester B. Pearson International
Airport in Toronto, the Inspass system will soon be in place at eight more
airports. Its purpose is to provide travelers hassle-free entry into the  United
States.

Those eligible for the program are citizens of the United States, Canada,
Bermuda and the 25 other nations that participate in the visa-waiver pilot
program, provided they travel to the United States on business at least three
times a year. Also eligible are "low risk" visitors such as diplomats,  airline
crews and representatives of international organizations.

To enroll in Inspass, travelers must visit an Immigration and  Naturalization
Service office and be approved by an agency inspector. After  receiving an
Inspass card, the traveler arriving at a participating airport  can bypass
immigration lines by inserting the card into what resembles an  automated bank
teller machine.

The airports scheduled to have Inspass in place by mid-1997 are Miami, Los
Angeles, Vancouver, Honolulu, Houston, San Francisco, Chicago and Montreal.

LOAD-DATE: March 18, 1997

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                    Copyright 1997 Times Publishing Company


                              202 of 280 DOCUMENTS

                         St. Petersburg Times (Florida)

               March 25, 1997, Tuesday, 1 North Pinellas Edition

Floridians will get reform reprieve

BYLINE: CAROL MARBIN MILLER

SECTION: METRO & STATE; Pg. 1B

LENGTH: 560 words



About 84,000 elderly and disabled Floridians who thought they would lose  their
food stamps as soon as next month have been granted a reprieve.

Last year's landmark welfare reform law terminates all public assistance  for
legal immigrants who are not U.S. citizens. But the federal government is
allowing benefits for some recipients to continue until August.

Florida becomes the third state, behind New York and California, to take
advantage of the federal money.

The welfare reform law "is going to be devastating," said Lisa Hutcheson,
spokeswoman for the state Department of Children and Families.

"We are going to be taking away the basic supports for legal immigrants,
especially the elderly. This will, at least, extend the time before they have
to face that situation."

About 3,302 of those affected by the federal changes live in Hillsborough  and
Manatee counties. Another 1,060 live in Pinellas and Pasco, Hutcheson  said.

Most - about 70 percent - live in Dade County, and many of them are Cuban
refugees.

The average payment for a legal immigrant on food stamps is $ 76, but a man  or
woman who also receives cash benefits might get as little as $ 15 or $ 19 per
month in stamps.

"For people who are eating on a combination of $ 12 or $ 27 in food stamps,
plus food give-aways, nutrition centers, community centers and free lunch
programs, they had to put together everything in order to subsist," said  Valory
Greenfield, a staff attorney with Florida Legal Services in Miami.

"If you take away $ 10 or $ 20 in food stamps, you are taking away 50  percent
of their food budget."

Congress' intent was to allow non-citizen, legal immigrants one year to  seek
citizenship or make other plans before federal benefits were terminated.  But
thousands of immigrants already had been notified their food stamps would  cease
by April 1, said Ariela Rodriguez, director of family services for the  Little
Havana Activities and Nutrition Centers in Miami.

"They were told, "you are not getting one penny more in food stamps,' "
Rodriguez said. "We have had a great deal of pain listening to the stories of
people coming in here crying. They simply cannot take it."

In fact, demand for free meals at the nutrition centers has increased by 25
percent in the last few months, said Josefina Carbonell, the center's
president. The nutrition centers serve 3,200 meals each day and deliver 1,900
to people's homes.

"They're lining up at 4 o'clock in the morning for their meal tickets,"
Carbonell said. "We turn people away every day."

One of the center's clients is a 98-year-old woman who is deaf. Anna
Ballasteros was receiving $ 484 in Supplemental Security Income from the
federal government and $ 15 in food stamps. The food stamps already had been
discontinued, and the cash assistance is to stop in August.

"This lady outlived her son," Rodriguez said. "She has nobody."

Rabbi Herbert Panitch, director of the Jewish Family Service of Greater  Miami's
Refugee Resettlement Program, said many Russian immigrants in contact  with his
program have applied for citizenship, which would enable them to  continue
receiving aid.

"But it can be nine to 14 months before you hear anything, which means in  the
interim you get cut off," Panitch said.

"It's a tragic situation."

LOAD-DATE: March 26, 1997

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DISTRIBUTION: METRO & STATE; CITY & STATE; TAMPA & STATE

                    Copyright 1997 Times Publishing Company


                              203 of 280 DOCUMENTS

                         St. Petersburg Times (Florida)

                April 1, 1997, Tuesday, 0 South Pinellas Edition

Worried immigrants rushing to the altar

BYLINE: DAVID ADAMS

SECTION: NATIONAL; Pg. 1A

LENGTH: 1368 words

DATELINE: MIAMI



Getting married can be a nerve-wracking affair at the best of times, but  added
anxiety was etched on the faces of some of those standing in line at a  north
Miami courthouse Monday.

"We're getting married because we want to be together," said Marco  Pineda, a
44-year-old auto mechanic, waiting to apply for a marriage license  with fiancee
Carmen Montoya, 46.

But Honduran-born Pineda concedes his declaration of love is laced with a
strong dose of pragmatism. Although he is a legal U.S. resident of 16 years
standing, Montoya is not.

Fearing that tough new immigration laws that go into effect today will make  it
harder for her to stay in the country, they decided marriage was a  necessity -
and fast.

They are not alone.

The number of immigrants flooding into marriage-license offices has been
soaring nationwide since Congress passed the laws last September.

Although immigration experts say the April 1 deadline is actually an  illusion,
that hasn't stopped the panic.

In Dade County, covering the metropolitan area of Miami, the number of  marriage
applications was 5,324 in March 1997, not including Monday's  latecomers,
compared to 2,350 in March 1996.

So far this year, officials say there have been 11,316 marriages, up from  6,742
a year ago.

Cities with large immigrant populations, like New York and Houston, have
reported similar increases. In New York the number of licenses issued has  risen
47 percent this year.

"It's unbelievable," said Roberto Reboso, head of the Dade County  Marriage
Licensing Bureau.

What's love got to do with it? Not a lot, says Reboso.

"Without a doubt it's got to do with the new law . . . and people trying  to get
married to maintain their residence in the United States. Our  population hasn't
increased that much in Dade County to show such a huge  percentage of increase
in marriage applications."

Early this year, staff at the North Dade Justice Center said, they began to
notice longer and longer lines outside the office each morning. Then there  were
the young girls paired with older - much older - men. And vice versa.

"Some really stick out," said Suzy Iten, the marriage license supervisor  for
North Dade. "Especially when you see wives who are old enough to be  (their
husbands') grandmother."

Iten stressed it's not her job to question marriage-license seekers. "As  far as
we are concerned everyone who walks in here is in love. Ours is not to  reason
why."

Since the numbers started going up immigration experts have tried to warn
fearful immigrants that the April 1 deadline isn't what they think.

While there are drastic changes being made in immigration law, for most  people
the date they got married will make little difference.

In general, the new laws that go into effect April 1 do not change the  present
rules affecting immigrants and marriage. Then, as now, marrying a U.S.  citizen
is only an advantage if the immigrant has legal status to begin with.  If the
wedding is deemed legitimate by INS, permanent status is granted after  two
years; citizenship, a year later.

But marriages between illegal immigrants and residents or citizens are much
more complicated. Marriage can in some cases give an immigrant an edge, but
whether the wedding took place before or after April 1 is largely irrelevant.

The confusion stems from new provisions aimed at tightening controls on  entry
to the United States, and penalizing people who overstay their visas.

As of today, people found entering the country with false or incomplete
documents will be subject to summary deportation by immigration inspectors.

Illegal immigrants already in the country who want to become citizens must
leave the country and then seek legal re-entry. Those who remain illegally for
more than six months will be prohibited from returning for three years. Those
who wait more than 12 months to leave will be barred for ten years.

Immigration advocates blame the confusion on the government's failure to
properly explain the complicated and confusing new laws. Other laws taking  away
federal welfare benefits like food stamps from non-citizens have also  helped
inflame rumors.

Experts says officials at the Immigration and Naturalization Service don't  seem
to understand the laws themselves.

"The INS has done a terrible job of communicating to people what the  changes
are," said Joan Friedland at the Florida Immigration Advocacy center.  Indeed,
because of the government's failure to give sufficient notice of the  law's
implementation, a judge ruled Monday that it could not go into effect  before
Saturday.

"It's a terrible thing," Friedland said. "They pass such draconian laws,  then
they don't explain it to people, or they give out misinformation, and so  people
are frightened."

Facing the specter of deportation and starved of reliable information,
immigrants have taken illegal measures to stay in the country.

"They are eliminating the legal ways for people to regularize their  status,"
said Friedland. "That makes people desperate."

Fear has spawned an illegal underground industry of marriage brokers who  charge
desperate clients $ 5,000 or more to arrange matches.

A 45-year-old undocumented Peruvian woman, who said she met her 66-year-old
husband last week hours before they were married, told the Times she paid the
man - a retired security guard - $ 2,500 to marry her, plus $ 300 to his sister

 for brokering the union. A second installment - $ 2,500 more - would be due if

 and when she received her residency papers.

Under the arrangement he will move into her apartment later this week, an  event
she now dreads. "From the day we were married he has been trying to  jump all
over me," she said, fighting back tears. "I don't want him, but my  friends say
I'm stupid. They tell me to close my eyes and show him some  affection. I never
thought I would be doing this. It goes against all my  principles."

Experts also warn that the consequences of fraudulent marriage are severe.

Immigrants must be able to convince INS officials that their marriage was  made
in good faith and not in order to gain any immigration benefits.

"They put you through some very exhaustive interviews," said Ana Navarro,
spokeswoman for the American Immigration Lawyers Association. "They will ask
you anything from when was the last time you had sexual intercourse to what
color underwear does he like, what's his favorite meal, what side of the bed
does he sleep on. It's like the dating game, for God's sake," she said.

"If they so much as pick up a hint of suspicion they will put you through  the
wringer and they will deport you."

Deportation for marriage fraud carries a lifetime ban from re-entering the
country.

But immigration advocates say most immigrant marriages are at least in part
genuine - a kind of hurried love, not dissimilar to couples who feel obliged  to
marry after a woman becomes pregnant.

At the North Dade Justice Center, one of seven courthouses in the county,  no
one standing in line said they understood the new laws.

Montoya and Pineda, who said they have lived together for seven years, find  it
all very confusing.

"I don't know what to think anymore," said Montoya, a house cleaner who  came to
the United States in 1983 from Guatemala.

Her work permit expires again in June, and under the new laws she is not  sure
it will be renewed.

"Marriage gives us a little extra hope."

Marriage applications

In Pinellas and Hillsborough, applications for marriage licenses are up,
generally:

PINELLAS

               1996   1997

January            557    530

February           683    749

March              708    779

Yearly totals    7,971  2,058

HILLSBOROUGH

               1996   1997

January            650    722

February           825    963

March              817     na

Yearly totals    9,385   1,685+

na: not yet available

+ does not include March

Sources: County records

LOAD-DATE: April 2, 1997

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: COLOR GRAPH, CRISTINA MARTINEZ; BLACK AND WHITE PHOTO, Associated
Press; BLACK AND WHITE CHART; graph illustrating the number of marriage
applications in Dade County for the first three months of 1997 compared to the
same time in 1996, includes drawing of newlyweds; Ricardo Sanchez, 25, waits his
turn for a marriage license.; chart listing numbers of marriage applications in
Pinellas and Hillsoborough counties for Jan. - March for 1996 and 1997 and
yearly totals

                    Copyright 1997 Times Publishing Company


                              204 of 280 DOCUMENTS

                         St. Petersburg Times (Florida)

                 April 19, 1997, Saturday, 2 Late Tampa Edition

Ex-aide for Gibbons gets prison term

BYLINE: LARRY DOUGHERTY

SECTION: TAMPA & STATE; Pg. 1B

LENGTH: 473 words

DATELINE: TAMPA



A former aide to retired U.S. Rep. Sam Gibbons was sentenced Friday to 18
months in federal prison for swindling foreigners who hoped to emigrate to  this
country.

Edna Taylor, 48, had earlier pleaded guilty to forging letters on behalf of
immigrants for money, and taking $ 400,000 from about 1,000 immigrants who had
little or no chance of obtaining permanent residency.

Taylor told them that merely becoming a member of the Seventh-day Adventist
Church would make them eligible to stay in this country. Neither Gibbons nor
anyone else in his office was involved, investigators said.

Although some Seventh-day ministers went to court Friday to vouch for  Taylor, a
former church clerk, it was clear they did little to ease the anger  of the
judge.

Taylor took from "poor people, from poverty-stricken people" whose  identities
were unknown and who could never get their money back, said U.S.  District Judge
Elizabeth Kovachevich.

"But on your conscience should be indelibly impressed the faces of those  people
even if you don't know their names," Kovachevich told Taylor. "You've  got a lot
of time to think about your greed. I hope you could do something for  them,
maybe pray for them."

Taylor staggered away from the bench weeping, a handkerchief in hand,
repeating, "How could she do that, how could she do that." It seemed she  might
collapse, and several ministers rushed to support her.

Outside the courthouse those who had spoken for Taylor were somber.

"I feel upset because I don't feel justice was done," said Jonathan  McCottry
Sr., former pastor of the Town 'N Country Seventh-day congregation,  for which
Taylor had been the clerk.

McCottry admitted to the judge that Taylor had forged her name onto church
letterhead, promising church jobs that didn't exist. Having a church job at  the
time was grounds for resident status.

Nevertheless, McCottry told the judge he would be better off if he had "a
thousand of her in my church."

According to the plea agreement Taylor signed last fall, she sent a letter  to
the Immigration and Naturalization Service on Gibbons' stationery in 1991  in
support of Job Fleurimond, a minister that the Southeastern Conference of
Seventh-day Adventist Churches wanted to send to two congregations in Miami.
Fleurimond obtained permanent residency later that year, and Taylor got $ 500
from the Southeastern Conference.

Taylor accepted another $ 500 for assisting another minister, Gedeon Pierre
Fontil, in obtaining residency.

With the endorsement of the Southeastern Conference, Taylor traveled the  state,
promising to help church members with their INS applications. She told  them
their membership in the church qualified them for residency. She accepted  money
from them knowing that few, if any, were eligible.

LOAD-DATE: April 21, 1997

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DISTRIBUTION: TAMPA & STATE; METRO & STATE; CITY & STATE

                    Copyright 1997 Times Publishing Company


                              205 of 280 DOCUMENTS

                         St. Petersburg Times (Florida)

                May 8, 1997, Thursday, 0 South Pinellas Edition

U.S. sends home Latin criminals

BYLINE: DAVID ADAMS

SECTION: NATIONAL; Pg. 2A

LENGTH: 1051 words



When President Clinton concluded his awkward visit to Mexico on Wednesday, he
might have thought the worst was over. Next stop: Central America and then the
sunny Caribbean.

If so, he had better think again.

Governments in these regions are battling a crime wave and say increased
deportations of criminals from the United States are largely to blame.

Officials from Jamaica to El Salvador say the deportees are introducing
sophisticated criminal techniques learned in America to their native lands.
What some call the "Americanization" of crime is straining police resources
beyond breaking point.

In some countries emerging from long periods of political violence - Haiti  and
El Salvador, for instance - rampant crime threatens to undermine  international
efforts at national reconstruction.

Rather than have immigrants convicted of serious crimes serve sentences in
expensive American jails, U.S. officials began repatriating them in the
mid-1980s. It was seen then, and today, as a good way to relieve prison
crowding and save money.

U.S. officials say jailing foreign-born criminals was costing upward of  $
1-billion a year.

Deportation, they say, is an important tool in dealing with foreigners who
enter the country illegally and commit crimes. At a time when many Americans
would like to close the border to all immigrants, U.S. officials say controls
on illegal migration are important to maintain a healthy flow of "legals."

"It's important that people know that the U.S. is not permitting these
(criminal) people to stay," said Robert Bach, a senior policy director at the
U.S. Immigration and Naturalization Service.

Under pressure from voters and Congress, the Clinton administration last  year
enacted legislation to accelerate the number of deportations.

Since 1993, the United States has deported more than 100,000 criminal  aliens.
Last year's figure - 37,063 - was a 33 percent increase over 1995.

But American anxiety over foreign-born criminals fails to take into account  the
social and economic costs of returning them home, say foreign officials  and
experts.

"These guys don't go back and plant tomatoes or oranges," says Ivelaw  Griffith,
a Guyana-born university professor and regional security expert.  "They go back
and reinvest in what they know best (crime). And they reinvest  with a
vengeance. It's a nightmare for local law enforcement agencies."

Prison overcrowding may be a problem in the United States but it's nothing
compared to conditions in Caribbean jails, says Griffith. "I don't think
there's a single country in the Caribbean where the prison system is not
overcrowded," he says. "In some cases all the prisons are overcrowded."

The increased deportations also come as the United States pushes an  aggressive
policy to carry its drug war to other countries by getting  Caribbean and Latin
American countries to agree to let U.S. law enforcers  pursue suspected drug
traffickers into their territorial waters and airspace.

Caribbean officials say it's ironic that while they are being pressured to
improve their performance in the drug war, the United States dumps more and
more drug traffickers on their doorstep.

Central American and Caribbean officials acknowledge the United States has  the
right to deport criminals to their home countries. But often they are  given
little formal notice or background on those being returned.

"Dozens of people are repatriated in a very ad hoc fashion, many of them  with
no roots here, having lived most of their lives in the United States,"
Trinidad's foreign minister, Ralph Maharaj, said last month. "Unmanaged, it's
quite a problem for us if we aren't given sufficient warning and information  on
these returning people. We shall be making an overture to President Clinton  to
pursue the matter in a more humane fashion."

When Clinton meets Caribbean leaders in Barbados on Friday, they will urge  him
to provide more advance information about criminal deportees, as well as  U.S.
technical assistance in setting up systems to monitor them after their  arrival.

Dominican Republic President Leonel Fernandez has said he will ask that  fewer
criminals be deported to his country. Dominican police say violent  crime,
especially armed, soared last year. They point to drug gang slayings  with
submachine guns and armed robberies of all types, including sophisticated  bank
robberies.

They blame some 1,500 criminals deported last year from the United States.
Police report that 60 percent of the deportees have been involved in
drug-related crimes after their return, and a third have been jailed again.

In Jamaica, officials say the island suffered one of its bloodiest years in
1996 - 891 people murdered - in part because of the return of dangerous
criminals.

Of 1,765 criminals deported to Jamaica last year, 1,199 were from the  United
States, up from 872 the year before. Of the total, 902 were repatriated  after
or while serving drug prison terms.

It's worse in Haiti, the poorest country in Latin America with 85 percent  of
the population out of work or in miserable part-time labor.

Local gangs, swollen by recent U.S. deportees, are pushing the country  further
into just the sort of chaos the U.S. Army rescued it from two years  ago.
Equipped with automatic weapons, the gangs model themselves on  American-style
gangsters and strike terror into everyday life.

A major part of the problem is that deported criminals generally go free  once
they arrive home since their crimes were committed outside the  jurisdiction of
local authorities.

"We have them in our waiting room in their orange (INS) suits all the  time,"
says Hillary Brown, spokeswoman for the Jamaican Embassy in  Washington.

"They are usually very impatient to go home because they know they will be  set
free."

Local officials say many deportees who have either grown up abroad or spent
years away are unable to adjust to life back home. Instead, they commit crimes
to fund future forays to the United States.

It's an exercise in futility, says Griffith, the security expert. "A lot  of
these deportees end up right back in the U.S."

- Times researcher Kitty Bennett contributed to this report.

LOAD-DATE: May 8, 1997

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: COLUMN

                    Copyright 1997 Times Publishing Company


                              206 of 280 DOCUMENTS

                         St. Petersburg Times (Florida)

                 May 9, 1997, Friday, 0 South Pinellas Edition

Clinton: War zone migrants deserve special treatment

SOURCE: Compiled from Times Wires

SECTION: NATIONAL; Pg. 2A

LENGTH: 693 words

DATELINE: SAN JOSE, Costa Rica



Citing U.S. Cold War activities in Central America, President Clinton said
Thursday that immigrants from this once-conflicted region deserve special
treatment in the United States, much like Vietnamese received two decades ago.

He vowed to fight Congress over a new law that calls for the deportation of  as
many as 300,000 Central Americans living in the United States, the vast
majority of whom fled Nicaragua, El Salvador and Guatemala during the 1980s  and
early 1990s to escape civil war. The president said he would delay until  Oct. 1
provisions of the law requiring the return of thousands of immigrants.

Clinton also said he would press Congress to reduce trade barriers to  Caribbean
and Central American countries. His pending budget proposal would  cut tariffs
on clothing and other goods shipped from the region to the United  States by $
2.3-billion over the next five years.

In a move expected to help U.S. airlines operating in the region, Clinton
signed an "open skies" treaty reducing government limits on airline services
between the United States and five Central American countries: Costa Rica,
Nicaragua, Honduras, El Salvador and Guatemala. Similar arrangements are being
negotiated with Belize and the Dominican Republic.

In a meeting with the Central American leaders, Clinton stressed that he  would
try to reduce the pain that the 1996 immigration law, which took effect  April
1, would inflict on people who fled this region when it was "a Cold War
battlefield" where the United States and the former Soviet Union vied for
influence.

"These Central American countries are in a rather special category,"  Clinton
said at a news conference after the meeting. "After all, the United  States
government was heavily involved with a lot of these countries during  the time
of all this upheaval."

The United States spent hundreds of millions, if not billions, of dollars
providing military aid, training and intelligence to support forces Washington
deemed as anti-communist during civil wars that left hundreds of thousands  dead
in Nicaragua, El Salvador and Guatemala.

"Just as we were quite generous - and we should have been - in welcoming
Vietnamese people to our shores after the termination of our involvement in
Vietnam, we ought to be sensitive to the disruptions that were caused (in
Central America) during those tough years that we were involved in as a
nation," Clinton said.

The 2 1/2-hour summit also concluded with modest agreements on crime  fighting,
drug control and the environment.

A new U.S. immigration law passed last year calls for speedy deportation of
Central Americans living in the United States without permanent residence
status. Many of these have been in the United States for a decade or more.

Clinton said uprooting these people would be destabilizing not only to the
families involved but also potentially to the Central American countries to
which they would be forced to return. Jobs are scarce in El Salvador, for
instance, whose economy is heavily dependent on money immigrants living in the
United States send to relatives back home.

El Salvadoran President Armando Calderon asked Clinton to grant amnesty to
Central American immigrants in the United States, but Clinton did not do so.

"It's not the administration's position to seek an amnesty," said Doris
Meissner, commissioner of the U.S. Immigration and Naturalization Service.
Rather, she said, the administration is negotiating with Congress on ways the
new law might be implemented that would reduce its impact on certain groups of
immigrants. She declined to elaborate.

"This law is a good law," she said. "There are some provisions that we  want to
work on."

Meissner estimated that the new immigration law could affect some 150,000
immigrants from El Salvador; 100,000 from Guatemala; and 40,000 from  Nicaragua.

Clinton told leaders from those countries that there would be "no mass
deportations," and Meissner said U.S. immigration authorities lack the  capacity
to round up immigrants in such numbers and ship them back home.

LOAD-DATE: May 9, 1997

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: BLACK AND WHITE MAP; Map locating San Jose, Costa Rica

                    Copyright 1997 Times Publishing Company


                              207 of 280 DOCUMENTS

                         St. Petersburg Times (Florida)

                May 15, 1997, Thursday, 0 South Pinellas Edition

Judge halts order to deport Nicaraguans

SOURCE: Compiled from Wire Reports

SECTION: CITY & STATE; Pg. 9B

LENGTH: 364 words

DATELINE: MIAMI; KISSIMMEE; JACKSONVILLE



A U.S. judge, in a ruling that could affect thousands of immigrants across  the
United States, ordered an immediate halt Wednesday to the deportation of
Nicaraguans and other immigrants who claim the United States has improperly
denied them residency.

U.S. District Judge James Lawrence King ruled the Nicaraguans and other
immigrants affected by new immigration laws would be "irreparably harmed"
without an immediate restraining order to prevent the government from sending
them home.

"No one will be deported," King ruled, adding the restraining order  takes
effect immediately.

The ruling could affect some 45,000 Nicaraguan immigrants in South  Florida.

Turbine at water park

decapitates worker

   KISSIMMEE - High-powered turbines sucked in and decapitated a maintenance
worker Wednesday at the Water Mania attraction as tourists splashed around
nearby.

The worker was not identified until his family is notified.

The sharp-edged turbines collect air that create waves for the attraction's
wave pool, which was closed after the worker's remains were found in the
adjacent building by at least one employee.

Water Mania officials said it wasn't known whether the wave pool would be
operational today although the rest of the park was expected to be open.

Robbery suspect using

tenant's name for alias

   JACKSONVILLE - The company driver accused of stealing up to $ 20-million
from a Jacksonville armored car service has been using the name of a former
tenant while on the run, police said.

FBI investigators have told Roger D. Lawter that Philip N. Johnson, charged
with armed robbery and kidnapping in the March 29 Loomis Fargo robbery, has
used Lawter's birth certificate to get a driver's license and passport.

Investigators wouldn't disclose details, such as where, when or how Johnson  has
used aliases.

Mother backs car

over infant

   JACKSONVILLE - An 8-month-old boy was killed Tuesday when his mother backed
her car over him in the driveway of their apartment building. the names were
not released by police.

- Compiled from wire reports.

LOAD-DATE: May 15, 1997

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DISTRIBUTION: CITY & STATE; METRO & STATE; TAMPA & STATE

GRAPHIC: BLACK AND WHITE PHOTO, Associated Press; Nicaraguan United Nations
human rights delegate Haydee Marin celebrates after Wednesday's decision.

TYPE: DIGEST

                    Copyright 1997 Times Publishing Company


                              208 of 280 DOCUMENTS

                         St. Petersburg Times (Florida)

               June 12, 1997, Thursday, 0 South Pinellas Edition

INS methods are more appropriate for a police state

SECTION: EDITORIAL; LETTERS; Pg. 23A

LENGTH: 1970 words



The denial of bail for Mazen Al-Najjar by the Immigration and Naturalization
Service court (USF instructor linked to Jihad denied bail, June 7) seems like
just another routine story. The reader's likely reaction is to say it has
nothing to do with me. Mazen Al-Najjar is a foreigner, a Muslim, and the
government says it has "confidential information" that he is associated with
Palestinian Islamic Jihad, a terrorist organization; the fact that he is being
held without bail is unfortunate, but "better safe than sorry."

I lived for over seven years in dictatorships of the Middle East. In two  cases,
foreign national employees of the embassy I was working with were  arrested and
jailed. Although eventually released, we were never able to find  out what the
charges were against them, but the arrests had the desired effect  of
intimidating others from working for the embassy. The actions of the FBI  and
the INS in the case of Mazen Al-Najjar border on such tactics.

If he has committed an illegal act he should be charged and tried, but to
detain him without bail based on "confidential" information that is not even
revealed to his lawyer smacks more of police state methods than American
justice.

This case should concern every citizen. The next time such procedures could  be
used against any group, the Scientologists or the Teamsters, the Jews or  the
Catholics.

Arthur L. Lowrie, retired U.S. Foreign Service officer, Lutz

Anti-terrorist hysteria

     Re: Trappings of terrorism were present, letter, June 5.

First of all, the writer obviously doesn't know fact from fiction himself.  Only
in his fantasy world did Dr. Mazen Al-Najjar become an "unindicted
co-conspirator in the World Trade bombing." Is he conducting his own
investigation? This is news to me; he must be ahead of the federal agents
because they never said anything like this nonsense. Sometimes it's so
difficult for people to realize how much they're caught up in this
anti-terrorist hysteria that they begin confusing facts with fiction.

Known fact: Dr. Mazen Al-Najjar, has never been involved in any kind of
terrorism and everyone knows that: his family, friends, community and federal
agents as well.

The University of South Florida case is not isolated. Many universities  across
the nation have been scrutinized and attacked for being open-minded and
encouraging diversity. President Betty Castor should be praised for not doing
what many in her place would: caving into pressure. She spoke the truth. The
true fact is and will remain that investigators have indeed turned up little.

Laila Al-Arian, niece of Mazen Al-Najjar, Tampa

Get the facts straight

      Re: Trappings of terrorism were present, letter.

The writer is grossly inaccurate with the facts that he has stated about  the
University of South Florida-sponsored think-tank World and Islam Studies
Enterprise being a front for terrorists.

First of all, Dr. Hassan Turabi of Sudan, a scholar in Islam, whom the  writer
labeled as an Islamic terrorist, was called upon to speak at WISE.  However, it
was conveniently forgotten that directly before the speech Dr.  Turabi had given
a speech to the U.S. Congress. Does that mean that our  Congress is also a front
for terrorists?

Basheer Nafi was deported by the Immigration and Naturalization Service for  the
technicality of not having his visa updated with his current employer in  time,
and not for any terrorist activity, as was implied by the writer.

Also, Dr. Ramadan Abdullah Shallah of USF has emerged as the head of the
Islamic Jihad, but it was not mentioned that this took place six months after
he left USF and the States. Prior to that, it has never been proved that
Shallah ever had anything to do with the Jihad.

The main fact that the writer failed to state was that USF had a detailed,
independent investigation conducted on WISE and no wrongdoing was found.

I seriously think that the writer should either get his facts straight or
change the name of his organization to Promoting Irresponsibility in  Middle
East Reporting.

Atiq H. Alvi, Land O'Lakes

No wrongdoing was found

      Re: Trappings of terrorism were present, letter.

In the twisted logic of the writer, University of South Florida President  Betty
Castor is probably another "unindicted co-conspirator" of something.  The
frustrated Zionists of Tampa Bay are seething because of Castor's  comments:
"Was there illegal activity, subversive activity, terrorist  activity? We don't
have any evidence of that" (as reported in the May 27  article USF terrorist
investigation turns up little). But facts are facts:

+ For over two years the federal authorities have been investigating the  affair
and have yet to announce any illegal activity, let alone "terrorist"  actions.
In a May 26 dispatch by Richard Cole of the Associated Press, who  investigated
the matter for six months, he writes: "Frustrated customs  investigators have
failed to find a shred of evidence that WISE or its top  officials did anything
illegal" (emphasis mine).

+ A separate USF investigation, conducted by well-respected attorney and  former
American Bar Association president William Reece Smith Jr., concluded  in May
1996 that there was no wrongdoing by USF Middle East Committee, WISE or  its
associates.  Hakim Aquil, Tampa Bay Coalition for Justice and Peace,

Tampa

Remove roadblocks to family planning

   On June 8, 1965, the Supreme Court ruled in the Griswold vs. Connecticut
case, legalizing access to contraception for married couples. Thirty-two years
later, 90 percent of Americans support access to family planning because they
know that reproductive health care is essential for the well-being of women  and
families. Despite this overwhelming support, women continue to face  roadblocks
to comprehensive reproductive health care that create an unfair  gender gap in
our health care system.

Congress will soon take up two important pieces of legislation that could  help
bridge this gap for all women, regardless of their economic standing. The  first
is the "Equity in Prescription Insurance and Contraceptive Coverage  Act"
(S.776), a new bill that would require private insurance to cover  contraceptive
drugs and services to the same extent that other prescriptions  are covered. The
second is legislation setting funding levels for Title X,  America's family
planning program.

The need for legislation is clear. Currently, more than 80 percent of  private
insurance plans refuse to pay for all five of the most frequently used
prescription contraceptive methods, despite the fact that family planning has
been shown to reduce unintended pregnancies and abortions, and reduce the
incidence of low birth weight and miscarriage. The result is that women of
reproductive age spend 68 percent more in out-of-pocket costs for health care
than men do, with much of the difference attributable to reproductive health
expenditures.

Women without these financial resources who need publicly funded health  care
services rely on Title X. The services provided by Title X prevent  1.2-million
pregnancies in the United States and over half-a-million abortions  each year,
and do so cost-effectively. Each public dollar spent to provide  family planning
saves more than $ 3 in medical costs alone. In the face of  these successes,
funding for Title X is again at risk.

Unrestricted access to reproductive health care is essential to maintaining  the
health of women. Planned Parenthood Association of Southwest Florida Inc.  has
always supported legislation that protects access and brings us closer to
achieving the ultimate goal of family planning: that some day all pregnancies
will be planned and all children will be wanted and cared for.

Barbara A. Zdravecky, president/CEO, Planned Parenthood

Association of Southwest Florida Inc., Sarasota

Justice for the jobless

   Re: Providing shelter for the poor, editorial, June 9.

To improve the lives of the poor is a laudable goal. But when it comes to
providing public housing for the destitute jobless, not enough is being done.

Just as affirmative action aids minorities, we need an affirmative attitude  and
a really solidly founded and funded program to fully deal with extreme  poverty
and the homeless who roam the streets. We must put the brakes on waste  and
politicians who are in bondage to their pet projects. We can no longer
disregard the destitute with cheap excuses. Poverty-stricken homeless folks
need adequate shelter, but they must also become participants in the overall
economic process in this country.

The bottom line is that sharper sensibilities are required to render full
justice for the jobless!

Robert B. Fleming, St. Petersburg

Theater board made a mistake

   We are writing to you in reference to the recentdismissal of Lisa Powers as
artistic director ofAmerican Stage. We have met Lisa only briefly.

It is our observation that Lisa brought a very special creative energy to
American Stage and St. Petersburg. Because of this decision by the board, her
impact and the potential for the continuation of fine theater productions in
St. Petersburg have been blunted.

We have watched the American Stage productions grow steadily over the years  to
a high level of solid, professional competence under the direction of  Victoria
Holloway and John Berglund. In our opinion, Lisa has taken American  Stage to an
even higher level with works that are unexpected and exciting. The  result for
us is an even more entertaining and valuable evening of theater.

We believe the board has made a serious error not only in its decision to
dismiss Lisa but also in its decision to have a managing director responsible
for artistic decisions. Why should any competent artistic director applicant
apply for the position knowing that every suggestion he or she makes has to be
approved by a managing director?

It is our opinion that these decisions are the result of both timid and
non-creative thinking on the part of the board. Not only is Lisa gone but the
board has created a situation that has the potential to do considerable harm  to
the future of American Stage.

We know that Lisa will be a great success in her career and we wish her  well.
We also wish American Stage continued success and we plan to attend  future
performances. But it will not be with the same enthusiasm and  anticipation that
we have learned to enjoy and treasure over these past two  years.

G. David and Astrid Ellis, St. Petersburg

That's a real extension

   David Olinger's June 8 article Florida may be electric car's perfect outlet
was interesting but left me with a few questions. Does the 80-mile range of  the
tested electric car include running the air conditioner, windshield wipers  and
lights?

But the real question was posed by Olinger's comment that he "drove the  EV1
about 20 miles and used 3 kilometers of electricity." Do they really make
extension cords that long?

Gordon Bass, Homosassa

Share your opinions

   We invite readers to write to us. Letters for publication should be
addressed to Letters to the Editor, P.O. Box 1121, St. Petersburg, FL 33731.

They can be sent by e-mail to letterssptimes.com or by fax to 893-8675.

They should be brief and must include the writer's name, address and phone
number. Please include a handwritten signature when possible.

Letters may be edited for clarity, taste and length. We regret that not all
letters can be printed.

LOAD-DATE: June 12, 1997

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: BLACK AND WHITE CARTOON, DON ADDIS; A flood victim reaches for help
from a person trapped in a pit of Capitol Muck. The two are separated by a small
strip of land. The panel is labeled "Disaster Relief"

TYPE: LETTER

                    Copyright 1997 Times Publishing Company


                              209 of 280 DOCUMENTS

                         St. Petersburg Times (Florida)

                            June 28, 1997, Saturday

U.S. may force deportation

BYLINE: WILLIAM R. LEVESQUE

SECTION: PASCO TIMES; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 632 words

DATELINE: HOLIDAY



Catherine Caza says she's as American as you get.

After all, the 40-year-old Pasco woman has lived in the United States for  37
years. She celebrates the Fourth of July and recently completed an American
government class at a local college. In fact, her 6-year-old daughter was born
in this country and is a citizen.

Caza remembers little of her native Canada.

"I love this country," she said. "I wouldn't want to live anywhere  else."

Unfortunately for Caza, it's not up to her.

The Immigration and Naturalization Service on Thursday ordered Caza  deported to
Canada but allowed her to remain in the country while waiting on  an appeal that
could take as long as a year.

Caza's problem: A 1980 drug conviction for selling 21 pills, including LSD,  to
an undercover narcotics officer in Clearwater. She served nine months in
prison.

Adjudication of guilt was withheld, but INS does not take that into
consideration.

Under an immigration law that took effect April 1, any alien resident with  a
drug conviction is subject to immediate deportation without exception,
regardless of the date of conviction.

Caza has "permanent resident" status and could have lived in the United  States
indefinitely had it not been for the conviction.

"I can't believe this is happening," she said. "I've lived here all my  life.
But it's like there's nothing I can do. Oh, my God. It's just a living
nightmare."

Caza's best hope: Florida Gov. Lawton Chiles.

Caza has applied for executive clemency on the drug conviction. If granted,  it
is likely that INS will drop its deportation proceeding against her, said  John
Ovink, her Tampa attorney.

INS did not respond to requests for an interview.

Caza said she had no record before her drug arrest and has remained out of
trouble since.

But a check of Pasco court records shows that Caza pleaded no contest in  1993
and 1994 to two felony counts of welfare fraud. She applied for and  accepted
welfare benefits, including food stamps, while working part time at a  local
bar, records show.

She did not inform welfare officials about the job, which would have
disqualified her for the benefits she received, records show.

Caza said, "That wasn't a big deal. I couldn't believe they charged me."

Caza said she has told the governor's office about the fraud convictions,
something the office confirmed.

"It will make it a little bit more difficult for her to get clemency,"  said
Janet Keels, coordinator for the governor's Office of Executive Clemency.  "But
I wouldn't say it's impossible for her to be considered."

Keels said it may take as long as six months for a decision.

Caza said INS has not been informed about the welfare-fraud convictions.  Ovink,
her attorney, said notification is not necessary because the dollar  amount is
well under $ 10,000.

INS, he said, will not take action against an alien on convictions  involving
anything below that amount. This could not immediately be confirmed.

And Ovink said that, even if INS took action based on those convictions,  Caza
would likely receive a waiver because of her long residence in the United
States.

"It's not automatic deportation like it is for a drug conviction," he  said.

Caza said most of her family lives in the United States, including her
70-year-old mother. The two live across the street from each other in Holiday.

Caza, a single mother, said she will take her daughter, Carly, 6, to Canada
with her if she is forced to leave the country.

"I'm not leaving without a fight," she said. "It's bad enough that they  are
going to hurt me. But they're also hurting my daughter, and she's never  done
anything wrong.

"I don't want to leave Florida," Caza said. "I love this state to  death."

LOAD-DATE: June 30, 1997

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DISTRIBUTION: PASCO TIMES

GRAPHIC: COLOR PHOTO, TONI L. SANDYS; Catherine Caza and her daughter, Carly, 6.

                    Copyright 1997 Times Publishing Company


                              210 of 280 DOCUMENTS

                         St. Petersburg Times (Florida)

                June 29, 1997, Sunday, 0 South Pinellas Edition

Critics say rights lost in terror fight

BYLINE: SUSAN ASCHOFF

SECTION: NATIONAL; Pg. 1A

LENGTH: 2351 words

DATELINE: TAMPA



During visits through a glass partition in a Bradenton jail, Mazen Al-Najjar
tells his wife he is worried his 2-year-old daughter Safa, the one he calls  "my
darling," will forget who he is.

"He asks me, "Did Safa forget me?' " says Fedaa Al-Najjar. "No, I told  him. She
picks up your hair brush and says, "Baba.'

"This is a form of torture," Fedaa Al-Najjar says, her eyes filling with  tears.

No, says the government. This is the way you fight terrorism.

+++

Mazen Al-Najjar has been in an Immigration and Naturalization Service  holding
facility at the Manatee County Jail for seven weeks. He is one of  dozens of
immigrants across the United States jailed on secret evidence they  are
terrorists or terrorist sympathizers.

Their defenders say they are victims of the U.S. government's zeal to stop
terrorist bombings at home, no matter the cost.

When a car bomb blew a crater under the World Trade Center four years ago,  it
may have scared the civil rights out of Americans. When a truck bomb blew  up
the federal building in Oklahoma City two years ago, it pushed the 1996
Anti-Terrorism Act through Congress.

Now government attorneys are playing "national security" like a trump  card in
court to keep immigrants locked up, critics say. The government  counters that
we are dangerously naive if we don't stop terrorists before the  explosives
ignite.

How much are we willing to sully our constitutional rights to stop  terrorism?
And who should decide if someone is not merely dissident, but  dangerous?

+++

A group of more than 50 lawyers, activists and civil libertarians will  converge
on Washington, D.C., today to talk about the imprisonment of  Al-Najjar and
others.

Through litigation - and an appeal to Americans' sense of fair play - they  hope
to free them.

"Ordinary people who have violated no criminal law, engaged in no violence  and
supported no illegal act are nonetheless targeted for years of harassment,
intimidation and repression," lawyer David Cole wrote two years ago in the
Connecticut Law Tribune.

In California, a group of eight residents, seven of them Palestinians,  fought
for 10 years to stay in the country after their attempted ouster for  alleged
ties to the Palestine Liberation Organization.

A permanent resident in Youngstown, Ohio, was barred from returning to the
United States after he attended a student political meeting overseas.

Al-Najjar of Tampa is appealing his deportation on an expired visa but has  been
denied bail based on secret evidence alleging his association with the  Islamic
Jihad.

Investigators say the former Arabic teacher at the University of South  Florida
managed an Islamic think tank that was a front for terrorist fund  raising and
entry into the United States.

Federal agents say they have found similarly ominous terrorist webs in New
York, Detroit, Los Angeles and other U.S. cities.

"You don't want to create law out of knee-jerk reactions, fearful  reactions,"
says Harvey Kushner, chairman of the criminal justice department  at Long Island
University. "But I don't think you're entitled to all the  rights of a U.S.
citizen because you've penetrated our borders.

"This is the business of fighting terrorism."

More government power is yet to come.

Provisions for a new federal court to meet in secret and hear classified
evidence on accused terrorists could kick in this year, as well as government
designations of which political groups are terrorist.

"People are always looking for someone to blame," says lawyer David Pugh  of the
Center for Constitutional Rights in New York and organizer of today's
conference in Washington.

"What if you served in a military unit in the gulf war with Timothy  McVeigh and
after the war you called him up a couple of times. Does that mean  you can be
kicked out or locked up" as a terrorist?

"When it comes to taking someone's freedom, we have a Constitution and we  have
rules, and this is way over the line."

+++

 On a chilly noon hour in February 1993, hundreds of workers stumbled into  the
streets of lower Manhattan, gasping for air. A car bomb parked under the  World
Trade Center killed six people and brought the shocking reality that  terrorists
could strike here.

Even as rescue workers searched the rubble, elected officials began  planning
their counterattack.

If federal agents were to stop terrorists before they lit a fuse, those  agents
would need to infiltrate peaceful communities, define political  viewpoints as
dangerous, keep undesirables from getting into the United States  and kick them
out if they did.

"I would rather err on the side of safety," professor Kushner says. "The  abuses
by the other side - the Hamas, the Islamic Jihad, even the IRA - have  been so
great, we had to act."

Immigration and civil rights lawyers say the government already wielded a  heavy
club. For more than 20 years, INS has had the right to use classified  evidence
to imprison, to deny residency and to grant asylum.

So why were Congress and the Clinton administration pulling together
legislation to fight terrorism?

"In the immigration business, what Congress is increasingly saying," says
Michael Maggio, an attorney specializing in immigration law, "is that there  is
only one side of the story."

The government's side.

+++

Four agents came to the northeast Tampa home of Mazen Al-Najjar the morning  of
May 19.

Fedaa Al-Najjar says her husband was sitting at the kitchen table as the
children finished their eggs and cheese so he could take them to school. With
the knock on the door, Mazen stepped outside to talk to the visitors, and  Fedaa
went to the bedroom to slip into the ankle-length dress and headscarf  she wears
to cover herself in public.

"Like a ghost, a woman was there in the room, and she says, your husband  is
under arrest. Then all the people were in my house, in my living room. Yara
(their 8-year-old daughter) started to cry. They were threatening to take  me,"
Fedaa says.

The agents were polite. But for a week after they took Mazen away, she  says,
she could not enter the apartment alone.

The three women sitting with Fedaa as she recounts that day nod
sympathetically, the colorful scarves covering their heads belying their iron
wills. They are fellow members of the Islamic Community of Tampa mosque. Their
children go to school together, at the adjacent academy.

"We are trying to make our children brave and outspoken," says one, who  feels
nervous about using her name. She is a mother of five, studying for her
master's degree at USF. "We don't like the stereotypes, that our husbands are
brutal wife-beaters, that the wives are stupid and just follow their husbands
blindly."

Their mosque community of about 300 - many of them U.S. citizens, some
permanent residents, some here on visas - was shaken by Mazen Al-Najjar's
arrest. A U.S. resident for more than 10 years, Al-Najjar is an imam, or
leader, in the mosque, a school officer, a maker of lentil soup for students
and friends.

"He doesn't hurt a fly. He's a community leader. It makes you paranoid  that
such a man could be arrested and jailed as a terrorist," says Pilar  Saad, one
of the organizers of the Tampa Bay Coalition for Justice and Peace  to free
Al-Najjar.

In testimony at Al-Najjar's deportation hearing last July, INS special  agent
Bill West called him a "mid-level" operative in a front for terrorism  - the
World and Islam Studies Enterprise think tank on Fowler Avenue.  Al-Najjar
signed checks to at least two people who turned out to be  terrorists, West
said.

Al-Najjar, his brother-in-law Sami Al-Arian, and other think tank members  say
their associations were limited to academic conferences and fund raising  for
charity. It is not uncommon to attend the same seminars, work at the same
colleges, in an academic community that bridges the Middle East and United
States, they say.

But protests by members of WISE that they know nothing of terrorists rang
hollow after one of their own, Ramadan Abdullah Shallah, took over the
leadership of the Islamic Jihad in October 1995 just months after leaving the
think tank.

The think tank investigation is two years old. No charges have been filed.

+++

In spring 1995, Senate and House leaders returned from a two-week Easter
enraged over terrorism.

Just weeks had passed since Timothy McVeigh, a home-grown terrorist, had
murdered 168 men, women and children. Legislators were eager to tackle a
package of anti-terrorism measures.

As proposed, it looked like Christmas for cops:

The FBI had been forbidden to investigate organizations unless there was a
reasonable indication its members were violent lawbreakers. Criminal activity
would no longer be a prerequisite.

Other proposals would make it easier to expel immigrants with suspected
terrorist ties and tighten laws against raising money in the United States for
groups abroad.

"The problem is that (the current) rules . . . mean you have to wait until  you
have blood on the street before the bureau can act," said Oliver B.  Revell, a
retired senior FBI official.

Among the estimated 5-million Muslims in this country, many of them
Arab-Americans, there was growing apprehension that they were being primed as
targets.

By September 1995, the crackdown on terrorism had become a campaign to make
Islam the new Red Threat in America, says Arthur Lowrie, a USF professor
formerly with the U.S. Foreign Service. We were suffering from "anti-Islamic
hysteria," he says.

"The terrorism threat is real. We must not forget that. But while law
enforcement agencies must have our support, they do not have carte blanche."

On April 24, 1996, a year after Oklahoma City, President Clinton signed a
modified Anti-Terrorism Act on the South Lawn as survivors of terrorist
bombings watched and wiped away tears.

+++

The hearing room where Al-Najjar asked to get out of jail is so tiny he  sits a
mere arm's length from the almost empty benches for spectators.

His wife is not here. Her attorney has advised her to stay away; she is the
children's sole parent for now, and also under a deportation order.

A University of Maryland political science professor testifying by phone
describes Al-Najjar as almost apolitical, the last person you would expect to
be a terrorist.

The professor may as well have thrown chum into shark-infested waters.

"Do you believe the Palestinian Islamic Jihad is a terrorist group?" asks  U.S.
Justice Department attorney Jorge Perez.

"One person's terrorist one day is the same person's prime minister the  next
day," responds professor Louis Cantori.

Cantori says he was shocked when another WISE member, Shallah, turned up as  a
Jihad leader. So how, Perez presses, could Cantori know that Mazen Al-Najjar  is
not a terrorist as well?

A disturbing dot-to-dot picture can be drawn between terrorist  sympathizers and
members of WISE, between pro-Palestine professors abroad and  here, from the
politically controversial needing sponsors to enter the United  States and Sami
Al-Arian's name on their paperwork.

Whether anything criminal is involved is impossible to discern when the
government's evidence is secret.

"The most fundamental principle of due process in our country is  presenting the
evidence. I think it's extremely troubling," says Cole, an  attorney
specializing in constitutional law.

Civil libertarians also say that in this country, we reject guilt by
association. Al-Najjar was denied bond because he was said to be  "associated"
with the Jihad.

Backers of the anti-terrorism act say it is more than fair to designate
organizations as terrorist, and judge those who belong.

"Fundamentalist organizations (in the Middle East) provide services to the
people - good schools, good medical care," says Stacy Burdett, of the
Anti-Defamation League. "We can't tell the butter from the guns. So you
choose," she tells their supporters.

"If you're going to have an organization that blows up school buses, then
you've made a choice. But we're not going to free money up for that."

+++

More than a year after the effort to put teeth in the country's bite on
domestic terrorism, not much has changed, both sides say.

Not a single organization has been designated a terrorist group by the  State
Department.

Not a single case has been brought before the specially convened Alien
Terrorist Removal Court.

The INS typically doesn't need to file criminal charges against immigrants,  or
prove they are plotting against the United States. Most are vulnerable on a
visa technicality.

For Fedaa Al-Najjar, much has changed: She stands to lose her husband, her
home, her country.

"He tells me to take care of the kids, to be patient," she says. "I pray  for
Mazen to be with me, and with his children."

For Americans, the balancing act is weighing the amorphous threat of  terrorism
against bedrock values of free speech and due process.

Even as U.S. citizens profess increasing distrust of their government, they  are
being asked to let government secretly decide what evidence is valid,  which
witnesses truthful - and the futures of some of our most powerless  residents.

We appear willing to do just that, says Stuart Hanlon, a San Francisco  lawyer
who represents Elmer "Geronimo" Pratt.

The Black Panther Party leader was just released after 25 years in prison  for
murder. A judge ruled the jury should have been told the key witness was  an FBI
informant.

"In California and other places, people have been elected on fear and  racism.
We're afraid of too many immigrants," Hanlon says. "We attempt to  trample
people's rights to find some safe haven.

"There's no optimism in my line of work. I think the only hope is  children.
Hopefully they can help us progress as a society."

-  Times researcher John Martin contributed to this report.

LOAD-DATE: July 1, 1997

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: COLOR PHOTO; BLACK AND WHITE PHOTO, JIM STEM; Mazen Al-Najjar with his
wife, Fedaa.; Fedaa Al-Najjar and her three daughters, Yara, 8, Safa, 2, and
Sarah, 6.

                    Copyright 1997 Times Publishing Company


                              211 of 280 DOCUMENTS

                         St. Petersburg Times (Florida)

                             July 18, 1997, Friday

Young immigrant's concern wins her a scholarship, trip

BYLINE: LIZ CARTER

SECTION: NORTH OF TAMPA; NORTHDALE; NEIGHBORHOOD REPORT; Pg. 7

LENGTH: 514 words

DATELINE: NORTHDALE



Shialing Kwa knows what it's like to be a young immigrant to the United  States.

Born in Malaysia, to a Malaysian father and Vietnamese mother, she moved  here
at 7. With college-educated parents who taught her English as her first
language, the 18-year-old Lake Heather resident knows she had more advantages
than many immigrants.

Now she has turned her concern for other immigrants, especially  schoolchildren,
into an award-winning idea.

Kwa, who graduated in June from Hillsborough High School's International
Baccalaureate program, is one of 58 students from the United States and Canada
to receive the 1997 EF Ambassador Scholarship, which will take her on an  11-day
trip to New York and Europe starting Friday.

"The purpose of the scholarship is to get kids to think about how to  improve
the world," said Brian Dill, media projects manager for the  scholarship
program. "We look for clear, solid thinkers, not necessarily  students with high
grades, although we get them."

Along with 1,800 other entrants, Kwa submitted a proposal regarding making  a
positive change in the world. Her idea is to improve immigrant student
education by pairing immigrants with non-immigrant peers for tutoring in
English, reading and writing.

"Public schools are overcrowded, and kids don't get a lot of one-on-one
attention that immigrant kids need. High school kids could work for an hour
after school with younger kids. There's a two-way benefit - both would get
something from the other."

Her idea grew out of experience and community service.

"I took Spanish and wanted to use it, so my guidance counselor told me  about
the (University of South Florida) Migrant Summer Institute," Kwa said.  She
volunteered last summer, working with migrant children of all ages.

This summer Kwa is an employee in the program. She tutors middle school  migrant
students in science and math.

"The kids had a bigger impact on me than I thought they would," Kwa said.  "You
can make a difference to them, but they make a huge difference on you.  They
showed me all I take for granted."

Kwa, who will begin her freshman year at Dartmouth College in September,  says
she's concerned about what she sees as an increasing anti-immigrant  sentiment
in the United States.

"You never hear anything positive about immigrants, and I thought this
(proposal) would give people another perspective. Americans should never  forget
that we're a country of immigrants."

Kwa's parents are now U.S. citizens. Her father is a professor of public  health
at USF and her mother a Realtor.

Her scholarship trip will begin with a tour of the United Nations and will  take
her on an expense-paid tour of England, France, Belgium and Swtizerland.  The
scholarship and tour began four years ago, sponsored by EF Educational  Tours,
which sells travel packages to students and teachers. Dill said the  company
wanted to do more to provide students travel opportunities and promote  cultural
education, foreign language study and inter-cultural understanding.

LOAD-DATE: July 18, 1997

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DISTRIBUTION: NORTH OF TAMPA

GRAPHIC: COLOR PHOTO, FRASER HALE; Shialing Kwa tutors Paula Juarez in math in a
class for migrants at the University of South Florida.

                    Copyright 1997 Times Publishing Company


                              212 of 280 DOCUMENTS

                         St. Petersburg Times (Florida)

                             July 20, 1997, Sunday

Hispanics settle among the Tarheels

BYLINE: JULIA CORBIN

SECTION: PERSPECTIVE; Pg. 1D

LENGTH: 1427 words



North Carolina is a study in contrasts - between the old, the new and the
unexpected. Computer software companies place their national headquarters bare
miles from tobacco farms owned by the same family since the 18th century. One
Eastern town elected the country's first openly gay mayor, and two years later
letters in the local newspaper claimed that Hurricane Fran was God's  punishment
for such sins. Eastern North Carolinians don't really drawl - they  sort of
lilt. Mountaineers do drawl. And the newest North Carolinians hablan  espanol.

"It's been an explosion," says Katie Pomerans, Hispanic ombudsman of the  North
Carolina Department of Citizen Services. Since 1990, she estimates, the  number
of Hispanics in the state has tripled.

Many of these new immigrants come not from their birth countries, mostly  Mexico
and Guatemala, but from states such as Florida with large immigrant
populations. Originally lured by seasonal farm work, many Latinos have stayed
in North Carolina to work in the poultry and hog industries and the furniture
factories, or have taken jobs as landscapers or restaurant workers. Others are
the grown children of Cuban refugees, who moved away from the places where
their parents entered the country, dispersing like countless other immigrants
did before them. Many of them roam for work and struggle hard. A migrant farm
worker follows the seasons up the coast, from the citrus groves in Florida to
the tobacco fields in North Carolina and Virginia; he or she might stay long
enough to pick fruit in Michigan or New York before returning to North  Carolina
and then to Florida.

The issues North Carolina is beginning to face are hardly new or unique.  But
the encounter between those from Tobacco Road and those from south of the
border offers a particularly striking contrast in the continuing story of
immigration in America. Hispanics have settled among the Tarheels, and the
state faces the same choices as the rest of the country - whether to welcome
them and aid in their assimilation, to tolerate them or to try to wall them
out.

North Carolina, like most Southern states, has avoided much of the  immigration
that shaped the rest of the country, after the initial influx of  English and
German settlers. The Irish, Italians, Poles, Chinese and Japanese  never reached
North Carolina until generations later, after they were  thoroughly
Americanized. Many native North Carolinians, black and white, can  trace their
ancestry back generations in the same region of the state.  Hispanic immigration
is truly novel.

Today, the state's agencies find themselves struggling to catch up to the
amazing change in demographics, says Aura Camacho Maas, executive director of
the Latino American Resource Center in Raleigh. "All the systems in North
Carolina are just beginning to awaken to the fact that there are  Latin-American
communities," she says.

Hospitals now must treat patients who speak only Spanish, a dire problem in  an
emergency if the entire staff speaks only English. Teachers are not  prepared to
teach children from different cultures or with poor English  skills. Until
recently, police departments were unaware of Hispanics'  susceptibility to
crime; out of unfamiliarity with the banking system or lack  of proper
documentation, many carry large amounts of cash and are reluctant to  report a
theft to the authorities.

North Carolina does not have a reputation as a state that would necessarily  be
open to newcomers, particularly those of a different color who speak a
different language. In fact, in a recent statewide poll, 42.4 percent of the
respondents said they believed "the migration of Hispanics" is bad for the
state. But North Carolina also has the potential to surprise its critics.
Indeed, the Hispanic and North Carolina people are more alike than either may
realize.

An agricultural history still shapes both cultures. Cities are
under-represented politically; the large landowners -  corporations and
families - still dictate much policy in Raleigh and in Mexico City. In both
communities, churches serve as more than a house of worship - they are social
centers and sources of political policy. Black U.S. churches were centers for
the civil rights movement, and the religious conservative movement has grown  in
political strength. Catholic priests in Latin America have historically  been
some of the poor's strongest advocates in this world against a tyrannical
government.

Both cultures are traditionally hierarchical, with clearly defined, if
unspoken, social classes at least partially based on race - either black and
white or European and Indian. African-Americans remain disproportionately  poor;
lily-white debutante balls still display the grace of the legendary  Southern
belle. Mexico's elite is still almost entirely of Spanish descent, as  were the
upper-class Cubans who first fled Fidel Castro's revolution. In  contrast,
Guatemalan Indians labor in coffee and banana plantations as  second-class
citizens with almost no representation - and do much the same in  N.C. poultry
plants.

But if North Carolina is to assimilate Hispanic immigration successfully,  it
must reconcile lingering tensions between its poor blacks and Hispanics.  Many
blacks fear losing jobs, no matter how marginal, that Latinos will take  for
lower wages to gain a foothold in the United States.

Rural blacks and Latino immigrants are competing for farm-working jobs, and
processing or factory jobs that require little experience. Hispanic women have
begun to take jobs in crab-picking plants along the state's coast that
traditionally have belonged almost entirely to African-American women, says
Glen Hinson, a University of North Carolina at Chapel Hill professor who
specializes in the South.

"There is a perception that the new people are coming to take their jobs,
manifesting in some tensions," says Maas.

Some signs of stress are appearing in the streets. Durham, a Research  Triangle
city already plagued by a high murder rate, has seen violence between  blacks
and Hispanics in the past few years. Yet Durham's police department  does not
categorize crimes against Hispanics as racial problems. Hispanics,  new to the
state and the country, make "easy targets," says Capt. Steve  Chalmers, division
commander for the department's community-oriented policing.

The Durham police have responded with initiatives that include organizing
Hispanic neighborhood watches, developing a bilingual volunteer program to
improve communication, obtaining a grant to hire two Hispanic and bilingual
employees in the criminal investigations division to help Hispanic victims,
meeting with community organizations and working as a liaison with banks that
are helping new Hispanic immigrants set up accounts.

The Durham police effort is encouraging, and some other private  organizations
are responding as well. NationsBank and BB&T, among other banks,  are moving to
make it easier for immigrants to open a bank account without a  Social Security
number. The Roman Catholic and Episcopal churches have  established networks to
minister to farm workers, and their assistance ranges  across the spectrum of
the religious and the secular - from hearing  confessions in Spanish to
providing aid in obtaining a driver's license.

"The church (is involved) because these folks are Catholic, and also  because
they're typically needy," says Paul Brant of Kinston, a Jesuit priest  who is
one of three ministering full-time to Hispanic farm workers.

The immigrant growth in North Carolina has happened so fast that the people  and
the agencies of the state have had little time to respond. But that also  means
North Carolina still has the chance to react positively and to make  Hispanic
immigrants an integral part of the state. If the rest of the state  follows the
example of the Durham police and the Catholic and Episcopal  churches, it can
make the adjustment of Hispanic immigrants much easier.

And as the first generation of awkward newcomers fades into the second and
third, and a Hispanic face becomes an accepted sight in North Carolina,  perhaps
the state's experiences in assimilation will become just another  chapter in
America's history as a nation of immigrants.

Julia Corbin, the 1997-98 Pittman Scholar at the University of North Carolina
at Chapel Hill, is an intern in the editorial department.

LOAD-DATE: July 22, 1997

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: COLUMN

                    Copyright 1997 Times Publishing Company


                              213 of 280 DOCUMENTS

                         St. Petersburg Times (Florida)

               July 26, 1997, Saturday, 0 South Pinellas Edition

N.C. raid finds deaf Mexicans working as slaves

SOURCE: Compiled from Times Wires

SECTION: NATIONAL; Pg. 7A

LENGTH: 401 words

DATELINE: SANFORD, N.C.; ATLANTA



Immigration and Naturalization Service agents Friday took into custody 16
Mexican immigrants, most of them deaf, who were held in servitude in North
Carolina.

"We executed two search warrants at two residences in Sanford, North  Carolina.
Taken into custody were 14 adult deaf-mutes from Mexico, two  juveniles and one
small U.S. citizen child," said Russ Parry, an INS  supervisory special agent
from Atlanta, who came to Sanford for the raid.

The raid came just a few days after the discovery that 60 deaf Mexicans  were
being held captive and treated as slaves in New York City.

Parry said the North Carolina raid stemmed from information the INS  obtained
while investigating the New York case.

One man, thought to be the head of the operation, was taken into custody,  Parry
said.

He also said the INS suspected Sanford was the center for the group's
operations through North Carolina, with immigrants living in the city  branching
out to peddle trinkets assembled in Sanford throughout the state.

FBI: Officers target of Olympic bomb

   ATLANTA - Law enforcement officers were the target of the Olympic bombing a
year ago, the FBI said Friday for the first time.

The 911 call made before the bomb went off was intended to bring officers  to
the scene, said agent Jack Daulton. The bomber knew officers would rush to  the
Olympic park to move people to safety, he said.

The bomb killed one woman and injured more than 100 people, including  several
officers, when it exploded during a concert July 27.

Investigators have said the attack is linked to bombings Jan. 16 at a  suburban
abortion clinic and Feb. 21 at a gay nightclub. In each of those  cases, two
bombs were set. And in each case, investigators said they think the  second bomb
was aimed at law enforcement officers responding to the first.

Daulton's statement was the first time the FBI has said law officers also  were
a target of the park bombing, in which there was no second bomb.

Later Friday, 17 people injured in the bombing filed a lawsuit seeking  $
100-million in punitive damages from four companies connected with the park:
the Atlanta Committee for the Olympic Games, AT&T and two security firms.

"Once they discovered the bomb, we believe it was just a tragedy of  errors,"
attorney James Sadd said. "People were not evacuated as they should  have been."

LOAD-DATE: July 28, 1997

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: DIGEST

                    Copyright 1997 Times Publishing Company


                              214 of 280 DOCUMENTS

                         St. Petersburg Times (Florida)

               August 15, 1997, Friday, 0 South Pinellas Edition

'Secret evidence'

SECTION: EDITORIAL; EDITORIALS; Pg. 18A

LENGTH: 524 words



In their zeal to protect U.S. citizens against acts of domestic terrorism,  such
as the World Trade Center and Oklahoma City bombings, President Clinton  and
Congress passed the Anti-terrorism and Effective Death Penalty Act of  1996.
Unfortunately, the legislation undermines some of the constitutional  rights
that make America the free nation it is.

Nothing illustrates this dilemma better than the case involving Palestinian
refugee Mazen Al-Najjar, a 40-year-old, American-educated engineer who taught
Arabic part time at the University of South Florida in Tampa. He was not
rehired after his visa was not renewed.

Al-Najjar has been in an Immigration and Naturalization Service holding
facility at the Manatee County Jail since four agents grabbed him from his
northeast Tampa home the morning of May 19. He has been denied bail based on
"secret evidence" said to connect him with the Islamic Jihad, a notorious
terrorist organization in the Middle East.

INS officials allege that the World and Islam Studies Enterprise, the USF  think
tank that Al-Najjar managed, is a fund-raising front for terrorists and  that
Al-Najjar is an Islamic Jihad shill. Troubles started for Al-Najjar and  others
connected to WISE on Oct. 26, 1995, when the head of Palestine Islamic  Jihad
was shot to death on the Mediterranean island of Malta. Days later,  Ramadan
Shallah, who had been an instructor at USF and a member of WISE,  became the new
leader of Islamic Jihad.

Authorities assumed they would find a terrorist cell at USF. But no  convincing
evidence to support that suspicion has been made public. After an  internal
investigation, USF President Betty Castor said: "Was there illegal  activity,
subversive activity, terrorist activity? We don't have any evidence  of that."

Was USF's investigation incomplete? Were Castor's conclusions self-serving?  If
the government possesses evidence that the USF investigation missed, it  isn't
revealing it.

Yet Al-Najjar remains in jail. No formal charges have been brought against  him.
He is being held under an unconstitutional provision of the  Anti-terrorism Act.
The merit of the case notwithstanding, the anti-terrorism  legislation allows
the government to use informant testimony or other forms of  secret evidence to
imprison and deport legal immigrants suspected of terrorism  without letting the
suspects cross-examine their accusers.

Remember, the U.S. Supreme Court has ruled that aliens have the same rights  of
due process that U.S. citizens enjoy. U.S. citizens should expect their
government to take all reasonable steps to protect them from terrorism, both
foreign and domestic. But officials have a responsibility to balance the need
for security with the obligation to protect the constitutional rights of
everyone.

If investigators have incriminating evidence against Al-Najjar, then let  him,
his family and the rest of the nation see it. Either Al-Najjar should be  tried
- with evidence of his activities in plain view - or he should be set  free. The
U.S. Constitution calls for no less. He deserves no less.

LOAD-DATE: August 15, 1997

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: EDITORIAL

                    Copyright 1997 Times Publishing Company


                              215 of 280 DOCUMENTS

                         St. Petersburg Times (Florida)

                            August 24, 1997, Sunday

Coming to America, and becoming American

BYLINE: PHILIP HERTER

SECTION: PERSPECTIVE; BOOKS; Pg. 4D

LENGTH: 450 words



MUDDY CUP

A Dominican Family Comes of Age in a New America

By Barbara Fischkin

Scribners, $ 24

Reviewed by PHILIP HERTER

The current debate over immigration, usually expressed in terms of what  "they"
want from "us," is starved for particulars that could help frame  the
discussion. In 1986, Barbara Fischkin, a reporter for New York Newsday,  began a
series of articles chronicling the struggles of "typical" immigrants  making
their way to America. The result is Muddy Cup, the story of the  Almontes -
Javier, Roselia and three children - journeying from the Dominican  countryside
to the wilds of New York City. Spinning a universal parable from  threads of the
particular, Fischkin has written a crisp, focused snapshot of  immigration
today.

The Almonte's story is one of family rebels and hard-working believers who  want
a better life. Like every family's tale, Muddy Cup is full of anecdote  and
myth: the record-breaking rain the night the baby was born, the time Papi
predicted he would win the lottery, and did. Dominican history is key,
especially the miserable years of the Trujillo dictatorship, a grim regime
supported by Washington, when thousands disappeared and social progress
withered. Coming to America, we are reminded, has made sense for a long time.

Fischkin has a strong reference for the stories of men and women  struggling for
something better: her own mother's escape, earlier this  century, from Ukrainian
pogroms. Immigrant imagery is both literary and  evergreen - a little boy who
dreams of flying, the pretty daughter longing for  big city lights, the wealthy
landowner on his white horse - and Fischkin plays  up these tropes. Rightly so
as the lives of rural Dominicans are as vivid and  hard as those of
Dostoyevski's serfs.

By tale's end, the Almontes have blended into the hurly-burly of New York,  in
Queens coincidentally, not far from Fischkin's mother. One daughter has
survived the terrorist bombing of New York's World Trade Center, (how American
can you get?) The youngest, Mauricio, is at college in Ohio, majoring in
English lit and dreaming of becoming a writer. The Dominican sierra, it turns
out, is not so far from Walton's Mountain.

Anyone unsure about "aliens" or American immigration policy would do  well to
read Muddy Cup and reflect on the circumstances of their own presence  in
America. Some might recall tales told by parents, or maybe grandparents.  But
most of us won't need to look very far into the past to see ourselves in  this
splendid and frank portrait of new, and very authentic, Americans.

Philip Herter is writer living in New York.

LOAD-DATE: August 26, 1997

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: BLACK AND WHITE PHOTO; cover art for Muddy Cup by Barbara Fischkin

                    Copyright 1997 Times Publishing Company


                              216 of 280 DOCUMENTS

                         St. Petersburg Times (Florida)

                            August 26, 1997, Tuesday

Immigrant faced losing SSI benefits

BYLINE: AMY ELLIS

SECTION: PASCO TIMES; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 445 words

DATELINE: PORT RICHEY



When she read the letter requesting proof of her mother's citizenship,  Rosalie
Ketchum feared her 96-year-old mother was going to be deported and  sent back to
Palermo, Italy.

The reality was almost as bad, she discovered. The government was planning  to
take away Girolama Crain's Social Security benefits - after she had lived  and
worked in the United States for nearly a century and collected Social  Security
for more than 30 years.

Unless Mrs. Crain, born Girolama Rose Bonini, produced papers documenting  her
arrival at Ellis Island more than 90 years ago, her monthly Supplemental
Security Income of $ 391 would be eliminated.

"That's what hurt me the most," said Mrs. Ketchum, 70, who cares for her  mother
at her home in the Lakes of Regency Park. "She has lived for 93 years  in this
country, was a model citizen, had two sons in the Navy and one in the  Army and
this is the way they treat her."

As it turns out, Mrs. Crain was among 350,000 legal immigrants whose  benefits
were in jeopardy after the passage of welfare reform legislation last  year,
said Steven Cohen, spokesman for U.S. Rep. Karen Thurman, D-Dunnellon.

The situation was corrected by recently passed budget amendments, which
restored benefits for anyone living in the United States before the  legislation
was passed, Cohen said.

Mrs. Ketchum did not know that for certain until Monday.

A couple of hours after she called state Rep. Mike Fasano's office in
desperation, another letter from the Social Security Administration arrived in
the mail.

It read: "The law we told you about has changed. . . . We no longer need  proof
that you are a U.S. citizen or national or an eligible alien."

Mrs. Crain's family had waited more than four months for the good news.

"It happened like a miracle today," Mrs. Ketchum said. "I expected it to  be a
letter saying, "We have stopped your benefits.' "

Still frustrating, however, is that immigration officials in Miami and
Washington, D.C., have no record of her mother's arrival, Mrs. Ketchum said.

Mrs. Crain came to the United States with her parents when she was 3. She  had
to drop out of school to care for her ailing mother and met her husband, a
seaman in the U.S. Navy, while working as a Red Cross volunteer during World
War I.

After Lee Crain's death of tuberculosis in 1939, Mrs. Crain raised four
children, working in a hospital nursery in New York. She worked as a  seamstress
well into her 60s and volunteered at a senior center until she was  91.

"She worked so hard all those years and never complained," Mrs. Ketchum  said.
"I'm so happy this is all behind us now."

LOAD-DATE: August 27, 1997

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DISTRIBUTION: PASCO TIMES

GRAPHIC: COLOR PHOTO, JACK ROWLAND; BLACK AND WHITE PHOTO, Family photo;
Girolama Crain, 96, and daughter Rosalie Ketchum share a Port Richey home. ;
Italian immigrant Girolama Crain with her four children in a 1932 picture.

                    Copyright 1997 Times Publishing Company


                              217 of 280 DOCUMENTS

                         St. Petersburg Times (Florida)

                           September 22, 1997, Monday

Private school fits bill for immigrants

BYLINE: ERIC WOODMAN

SECTION: HERNANDO TIMES; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 512 words



A change in federal law makes private school cheaper than public school, at
least for some foreign students in Hernando County.

The 1996 change forces public school systems to charge foreign students to
attend school. Hernando's price: $ 5,000 to $ 7,000 a year. That is more than
twice the price charged by the county's only private school certified to take
the foreign students. Wider Horizons School in Spring Hill charges $ 1,850 to  $
2,850 a year.

"We wanted to provide this opportunity for students who find themselves  here,"
said Dominick Maglio, who co-founded and directs Wider Horizons with  his wife,
Julie. "We're hoping to get a lot of response."

The new rules say foreign children who are not part of a certified work or
exchange program have to pay to attend public school. The idea was to
discourage parents from sending children to the United States to get a free
education.

Carmen Jurado, the Hernando County School District employee who helps
immigrants through the bureaucracy of enrolling in school, said only one  person
has paid to go to Hernando public schools since the law took effect  Nov. 30.

"I've had a bunch of calls, but everyone says, "Forget it,' when they hear  they
have to pay," Jurado said. "It really shocks some people."

The one who did pay was Polish student Sebastian Solski, who graduated from
Hernando High School in the spring. Solski first came to Hernando County for
the 1994-95 school year as part of an exchange program.

He liked it so much he came back the next year. Then last year, his senior
year, he left the country for Christmas. When he returned, the district told
him he had to pay.

"If he had not left, he would have been free to continue," said Glenda  Vasquez,
a teacher at Westside Elementary School, who was Solski's host during  his stay.
"We just paid because it was so important to him to get through."

The law was changed as part of federal welfare reform.

Critics say that requiring payment penalizes students who are legal  immigrants
and who are potential contributors to society, through paying taxes  and sharing
their culture. The critics also say that illegal immigrants are  not necessarily
kept out of the schools; they have learned to maneuver through  the system
undetected.

There is a move in Congress to stop requiring payment, but for now the law  is
unchanged.

Jurado said the cost of a year in the schools is based on per-pupil  spending by
the district. Elementary school is less expensive than middle  school and high
school.

"It really is a lot of money," she said. "I can understand why people  don't
want to pay."

That is why Wider Horizons went through the trouble of being certified by  the
U.S. Immigration and Naturalization Service.

Wider Horizons, which has about 140 students and smaller class sizes than  the
public schools, emphasizes foreign cultures in its curriculum.

"This is a good opportunity for the school and for our students," Maglio  said.
"We hope some people will take us up on it."

LOAD-DATE: September 23, 1997

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DISTRIBUTION: HERNANDO TIMES

                    Copyright 1997 Times Publishing Company


                              218 of 280 DOCUMENTS

                         St. Petersburg Times (Florida)

             September 25, 1997, Thursday, 0 South Pinellas Edition

Immigration evidence is disclosed

BYLINE: SUSAN ASCHOFF

SECTION: CITY & STATE; Pg. 3B

LENGTH: 585 words

DATELINE: TAMPA



Sami Al-Arian waited more than two years for the government to show him the
secret evidence being used to deny him U.S. citizenship.

He sent an official Freedom of Information request to the Immigration and
Naturalization Service in May 1995. Two months later he got 70 pages worth of
his file but was told some pages from the FBI were being withheld. He  appealed.

Finally, in late August, he got an envelope with 18 photocopied pages,  reviewed
and cleared for release by the FBI.

Every one was a newspaper clipping.

"That this was withheld from him as some sort of special investigatory  material
is just incredible," Robert Cannella, Al-Arian's attorney, said  Wednesday.

"What is even more upsetting is that it took two years."

All but one of the clips are from the Tampa Tribune, including a column by  the
Tribune's Daniel Ruth, and most were published in the 250,000-circulation  daily
in May and June 1995.

Attempts this week to determine  whether newspaper clippings are routinely  used
as proof of wrongdoing by FBI agents and others brought little response.

"Our policy is not to comment on investigations, and I can neither confirm  or
deny the existence of an investigation," said assistant U.S. attorney Bob
Mosakowski in Tampa.

The Tampa FBI office did not return phone calls. When previously asked  about
Al-Arian, spokeswoman Juana Klim said the agency "cannot discuss any  details of
the investigation because it is ongoing."

A spokesman at the Executive Office for Immigration Review in Virginia,  which
includes the Board of Immigration Appeals, suggested the INS is the  agency to
speak to the matter.

The INS had little to say.

"As far as this specific case is concerned," said spokesman Lemar Wooley  in
Miami, "it wouldn't be possible for me to discuss it since it's still in
litigation.

"As for newspapers being considered classified information, anything that  goes
into a classified file is considered classified until it's  declassified."

The "classified" clippings are but the latest in a series of worrisome  events
in the life of Al-Arian. Born in Egypt but a U.S. resident for more  than 20
years, Al-Arian applied for citizenship in January 1994. About a year  later,
the University of South Florida professor became a target in a federal
investigation into possible USF ties to terrorists. His brother-in-law, Mazen
Al-Najjar, has been in a Bradenton jail since his arrest May 19. He is being
held for deportation, and bond was denied based on secret evidence also
alleging terrorist ties.

Al-Arian has been suspended from teaching computer engineering at USF, his  home
and offices have been searched, an Islamic think tank he founded  dismantled,
and what he assumed would be a routine granting of citizenship  derailed.

"I have mixed emotions," Al-Arian said of receiving declassified  newspaper
clippings.

"I felt sad that a great country like the United States of America might  base
decisions that affect people's lives on biased reports."

Al-Arian maintains the Tribune stories are false. They ignited an  investigation
into Al-Arian's think tank, the World and Islam Studies  Enterprise, or WISE,
alleging it was a front for harboring and financing  terrorists in the early
1990s.

Al-Arian and his jailed brother-in-law say they are pro-Palestinian  scholars,
not terrorists. After more than two years under investigation by the  INS, FBI
and U.S. Customs, neither man has been charged.

LOAD-DATE: September 25, 1997

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DISTRIBUTION: CITY & STATE; METRO & STATE; TAMPA & STATE

GRAPHIC: BLACK AND WHITE PHOTO; Sami Al-Arian

                    Copyright 1997 Times Publishing Company


                              219 of 280 DOCUMENTS

                         St. Petersburg Times (Florida)

             September 30, 1997, Tuesday, 1 North Pinellas Edition

Immigrants struggle to comply with altered law

BYLINE: MARTY ROSEN

SECTION: METRO & STATE; Pg. 3B

LENGTH: 477 words

DATELINE: TAMPA



Maria Bazurto has lived in America less than two years, but already the  lively
high school senior from Ecuador has big plans for her future: In five  years
she'll become a citizen. Then, she wants to join the Marine Corps.

Being an American means everything to the 19-year-old, which is why she  stood
with her 75-year-old grandmother Monday in a line with more than 500  people
outside Tampa's regional immigration office to help Spanish-speaking  relatives
file papers that will allow her family to stay together.

Most, like Maria's grandmother, Belen Diaz, are immigrants entitled to  remain
in the country by virtue of their relationship to a U.S. citizen, once  they
file the appropriate paperwork. Diaz's daughter has lived in the United  States
for 17 years and is a citizen.

But at least 100 of the people who began lining up outside the Westshore  office
at 10 p.m. Sunday are illegal immigrants who are faced with a midnight  deadline
to pay a $ 1,000 fine and file paperwork that will permit them to  remain in the
country while they seek to become a resident alien and qualify  for a green
card.

Immigrations officials opened their doors at 8 a.m. Monday and vowed that  the
staff of seven examiners would see everyone who showed up.

James Minton, the officer-in-charge, said the doors will open again today  at 8
a.m. and will remain open until midnight unless Congress grants an  extension.

The changes in the immigration laws have frightened immigrants, many of  whom
struggle with the language and customs of their new home. Maria and her  family
said those who waited up to five hours Monday shared their stories and  asked
the same question: "What's going to happen? On the TV and radio they  say if you
don't go tomorrow they're going to take you away."

At midnight tonight, the immigrants lose an important legal protection with  the
expiration of the law that allows people who bypassed U.S. Customs  checkpoints
when they entered the country, or overstayed temporary visas, to  remain here
while they apply for legal status.

Those who miss the deadline would be forced to return to their native
countries, where they could apply through a U.S. consulate for permission to
return to the U.S.

Other restrictions went into effect Saturday. Now illegal aliens who have  been
in the country more than six months face a three-year ban if they leave  the
United States and try to re-enter. Some of the people who appeared Monday  may
not qualify for legal status because of quotas that limit immigration from  some
countries, including Mexico, India and the Philippines.

Minton said those with questions about their status may call a toll-free  hot
line at (800) 375-5283.

Applicants also must pay fines with certified checks. The immigration  office
will not accept personal checks or cash.

LOAD-DATE: October 1, 1997

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DISTRIBUTION: METRO & STATE; TAMPA & STATE

GRAPHIC: BLACK AND WHITE PHOTO, JOHN PENDYGRAFT; Karla, 20, an illegal
immigrant, with her 7-month-old son, Miguel, a legal resident. (ran METRO &
STATE)

                    Copyright 1997 Times Publishing Company


                              220 of 280 DOCUMENTS

                         St. Petersburg Times (Florida)

                            October 12, 1997, Sunday

The orange of the apocalypse

BYLINE: PHILIP HERTER

SECTION: PERSPECTIVE; BOOKS; Pg. 4D

LENGTH: 508 words



Karen Tei Yamashita's previous novels have explored the historical record
(Brazil-Maru) and contemporary ecological crisis (Through the Arc of the Rain
Forest). With her new novel she takes aim at the future - specifically
globalization and multiculturalism. Appraising those trends, Yamashita
envisions a tomorrow-land that is a melting pot en route to meltdown.

The characters populating Tropic of Orange remind us that everyone is a
refugee. Bobby, for instance, is an Asian immigrant passing himself off as a
war survivor. "Bobby's Chinese. Chinese from Singapore with a Vietnamese name
speaking like a Mexican living in Koreatown. That's it." His wife, Rafaela,  an
L.A.-educated Mexican, sweeps the floors of a house in Mazatlan built smack  on
the Tropic of Cancer. "They are not dust,'" she says of the critters her  broom
finds every morning, '"they are alive.'" It's a dig at U.S. Immigration  and
Naturalization Service agents who sweep the borders for aliens. Here are  the
scared citizens of the future, negotiating a complex web of race, language  and
culture.

 Meanwhile, in the garden of the Mexican house, a citrus tree bears a  single,
magical fruit. Arcangel, a Mexican street mime who wrestles  "SuperNAFTA" under
the name of "El Gran Mojado'" (The Great Wetback),  brings the orange of the
title north. That orange, the author's metaphor for  the arbitrary divisions of
the world, shifts borders both psychic and  geographical abruptly as
earthquakes.

The novel's centerpiece is a huge traffic jam caused by the presence of the
orange. Homeless hordes descend on the road, forging a community in the
abandoned cars. Within days they have rebuilt society in its own image: a talk
show (it is L.A., after all) broadcast live by the NewsNow Team from the back
of a pickup. It's a hopeful sign for America that only in California could a
talk show cause the apocalypse.

The characters in Tropic of Orange are "recyclers on the last rung,"  using the
Internet and human decency to fashion order from a world where  poverty and
standing on the wrong side of any border are crimes. Although  Yamashita writes
with a near religious feeling for humanity, Tropic of Orange  is more editorial
than novel. The multiplicity of characters and plots, while  symbolizing current
obsessions with nationalism and racial pedigree, don't  evoke much sympathy.
Maybe it's the borrowed magical realism, but the human  voices seem drowned out
by smoke machines and prop wash from the rescue  choppers, until this
intelligent social burlesque feels more cartoonish than  mythic.

Like the best polemical novels, Tropic of Orange illustrates how  humanity's
worst habits, in this case racism and inequality, can drive good  people crazy.
But it shows that aspiring to a Hollywood action screenplay can  have the same
effect on literature.

Philip Herter is a writer who lives in New York.

TROPIC OF ORANGE

By Karen Tei Yamashita

Coffee House Press, $ 14.95

LOAD-DATE: October 13, 1997

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: COLOR PHOTO; cover of Tropic of Orange by Karen Tei Yamashita

                    Copyright 1997 Times Publishing Company


                              221 of 280 DOCUMENTS

                         St. Petersburg Times (Florida)

             October 15, 1997, Wednesday, 0 South Pinellas Edition

Paperwork needs to be sorted out

BYLINE: NANCY PARADIS

SECTION: FLORIDIAN; ACTION; Pg. 2D

LENGTH: 731 words



I need to claim financial aid for college. Unfortunately, I am having
difficulty with my citizenship. My father met my mother in Germany, while he
was in the military. They married a year after I was born. My parents  separated
approximately 10 years ago, and we have not seen my father since.

Immigration states that I must have his signature. I have my military  records,
a document that states in a court of law that he is my father and  other papers.
We want no further contact with my father and do not want him to  know where we
live. Christie Burton

Response: James Minton, officer in charge of U.S. Department of Justice
Immigration and Naturalization Service in Tampa, said that you appear to be
trying to establish a claim to U.S. citizenship or an immigration benefit
through your father. You indicate that the service requested his signature.

Of the copies of the documents you submitted with your letter, Minton said  that
many are in a foreign language and translation into English was not  provided.
You also did not submit a copy of any application you have filed or  are seeking
to file with Immigration. You did, however, send in your  arrival-departure
record, Form I-94, that reflects you entered as a visitor  for pleasure on Sept.
6, 1984, admitted until March 5, 1985. Minton said no  evidence was presented
that you have extended your status in the United  States. (We note that you were
5 1/2 years old when you entered the United  States.)

Minton said the form you need to file as an immediate relative of a U.S.
citizen is the Relative Visa Petition, Form I-130. This form does require the
signature of the petitioner, among other requirements. The petitioner in this
instance would have to be your father.

Minton said you can call the INS information line at (800) 375-5283 or  visit
the Tampa office at 5509 W Gray St., Suite 108, between 8 a.m. and 1  p.m.

Andrew Lluberes, with the INS public information office in Washington, said
that if your father had filed a petition for you before your 18th birthday,
your citizenship would be automatic as a first-line relative. If this is not
the case, and since you have already turned 18, you may file on your own  behalf
(18 years is the minimum age requirement) if you have completed the  five-year
legal residency requirement.

The American Red Cross has a "language bank," so if you need help having  your
German documents translated, you might try there. You will need to find  out
from the INS, of course, exactly what documents are required and whether  they
must be notarized or certified.

Gerber rumor untrue

   My husband's co-worker received this fax from a friend who works at a stock
brokerage firm. It claims that Gerber Baby Foods lost a class-action suit and
that in the settlement, Gerber has agreed to give every child born between  1985
and 1997 a $ 500 savings bond.

The fax also says that Gerber is not responsible for making this  information
known and asks that this be made known to others.

To obtain the bond, you're supposed to send a copy of the child's birth
certificate and Social Security card to Gerber Food Settlement Administration
at a post office box in Minneapolis.

Is this for real? Lisa Brown

Response: No! According to Gerber Products Co., there is no truth to these
rumors. They have been circulating since 1996, when a settlement involving
infant formula and pricing was announced. Gerber was not involved in this
settlement.

Action has been alerted to these rumors through various sources, including
faxes, fliers and the Internet.

An item in the Times Sept. 20 stated that Gerber is advising customers not  to
send any information to the Minneapolis address. We would add the caution
always to be wary of requests for copies of birth certificates and Social
Security cards; those requests may not be legitimate.

Action solves problems and gets answers for you. If you have a question, or
your attempts to resolve a consumer complaint have failed, write: Times  Action,
P.O. Box 1121, St. Petersburg, FL 33731, or call your Action number,  893-8171,
or, outside of Pinellas, (800) 333-7505, ext. 8171, to leave a  recorded request
for Action. Names will not be omitted except in unusual  circumstances. Letters
may be edited for length and clarity.

LOAD-DATE: October 15, 1997

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: COLUMN

                    Copyright 1997 Times Publishing Company


                              222 of 280 DOCUMENTS

                         St. Petersburg Times (Florida)

              November 11, 1997, Tuesday, 0 South Pinellas Edition

Legal limbo draws to an end for Cold War refugees

BYLINE: DAVID ADAMS

SECTION: NATIONAL; Pg. 2A

LENGTH: 892 words

DATELINE: MIAMI


The Cold War is finally coming to an end for thousands of Central American  and
East European refugees.   Congress is at the point of approving a bill that
would grant permanent  residence to an estimated 100,000 Nicaraguans, most of
whom fled their country  during the 1980s when U.S.-backed Contra guerrillas
fought the leftist  Sandinista government.   The bill also offers more favorable
treatment for about 250,000 Salvadorans  and Guatemalans, who also fled civil
wars, and 30,000 East Europeans from the  former Soviet Union, its Warsaw Pact
allies and the former Yugoslavia.   Another 5,000 Cubans who entered the country
illegally and are not covered  by other legislation, would also become eligible
for the coveted green card.   The legislation, known as the Victims of Communism
Bill, passed the Senate  late Sunday and is expected to be approved by the House
later this week.   Its passage had been blocked by strong opposition from
Democrats who wanted  equal benefits for Haitian immigrants facing deportation.
The Senate approval  came after a formal agreement with the White House,
brokered by Sen. Bob  Graham, D-Fla., to introduce legislation for Haitians too.

   The bill represents a dramatic turnaround for Central American refugees who
only weeks ago were facing the possibility of deportation. Its scope surprised
even some of those lobbying hardest for it.   "It's incredible," said Ana
Navarro, a Nicaraguan immigration lawyer who  credited a bipartisan effort by
the Florida congressional delegation.   After initial reluctance to support such
sweeping benefits for so many  refugees, members of Congress underwent a change
of heart, Navarro said. That  was largely because of an intense lobbying effort
by Hispanic members of  Congress, as well as some former Republican political
heavyweights who were  deeply involved in U.S. policy toward Central America
during the Reagan and  Bush administrations.   "We lobbied like hell and our
representatives in Congress went on a jihad  of support for the Nicaraguans,"
she said.   Among those who actively supported the bill were former presidential
and  vice presidential candidates Steve Forbes and Jack Kemp, former Education
Secretary Lamar Alexander, former United Nations Ambassador Jeanne Kirkpatrick
and powerful Republican Sen. Jesse Helms.   The campaign also won strong
editorial support from newspapers, including  the Washington Post, the New York
Times and the Miami Herald.   The legislation will resolve what had seemed an
endless legal limbo for  thousands of Nicaraguans who entered the country at the
height of the war,  encouraged by an official U.S. government policy that
offered temporary  asylum. In 1987, their immigration status was frozen by the
Reagan  administration, which allowed refugees to stay in the country without
determining their eligibility for residency.   Leaders of Miami's large
Nicaraguan community, who led street celebrations  Sunday night, argue that they
are finally being granted what they deserve.   "Because we are ex-Contras,
because we fought for a cause the United  States believed in," said Navarro,
"Congress is only fulfilling a commitment  that they made to the Nicaraguan
people more than a decade ago."   But the bill is not without controversy.   It
will likely outrage many Floridians who would prefer to see more  deportations
of undocumented foreigners, rather than more residents.   At the same time,
Haitian immigrants in Miami protested Monday outside the  offices of
Cuban-American Rep. Lincoln Diaz-Balart, demanding to know why they  had been
excluded from the legislation.   "How can you abandon the Haitians this way?"
asked Joan Friedland, a  Miami lawyer at the Florida Immigration Advocacy
Center. "It's not that we  are against the Central Americans. They have very
deserving cases. But so do  the Haitians."   Friedland and other immigration
advocates say the law unfairly  discriminates between those who fled communism
and the victims of a brutal  military regime.   "The whole thrust of immigration
law is supposed to be ideologically  neutral," said Friedland.   She also
pointed out that the new law for Central Americans jumbles up  so-called victims
of communism with victims of right-wing regimes in El  Salvador and Guatemala.
   "It's a law turned upside down," she said.   Haitians have little faith in
congressional promises to introduce  legislation on behalf of at least 36,000
Haitians not included in the Victims  of Communism bill.   "How can you say with
any conscience that Haitians will be protected in  the future when they are
being excluded now?" asked Friedland. "There's no  guarantee the law will be
passed."   Under the new law, Nicaraguans who can prove that they entered the
country  before Dec. 1, 1995, will be automatically eligible for residency, and
later  citizenship.   The Salvadorans and Guatemalans, who live mostly in
California and the  Washington, D.C., area, will not be granted an amnesty but
will be able to  request a suspension of deportation under older, more generous
laws that  existed before a tightening of immigration rules last year.

LOAD-DATE: November 12, 1997

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                    Copyright 1997 Times Publishing Company


                              223 of 280 DOCUMENTS

                         St. Petersburg Times (Florida)

              December 21, 1997, Sunday, 0 South Pinellas Edition

THE POLITICS OF IMMIGRATION

BYLINE: SUSAN ASCHOFF

SECTION: FLORIDIAN; Pg. 1F

LENGTH: 2963 words



There are terrorists, and there are activists. There are people to rescue,  and
people to shun.

For immigrants desperate to stay in America, the government decides which  is
which.

Take the cases of the Irish national and the Palestinian refugee. Both want  to
stay in the United States, with their wives and their children and their
ordinary lives. The government wants to deport them.

The Palestinian, a bookish college teacher from Tampa, is marking his  eighth
month in a Bradenton jail. The government says he is a terrorist,  though no
charges have been filed against him. The Irish national, a former  member of the
Irish Republican Army convicted of killing a police officer, has  had
deportation proceedings against him halted. He is free.

Why is a convicted murderer given a reprieve while a scholar with no  criminal
record treated like America's most wanted?

The answer, say those who work in the labyrinthian world of immigration, is  not
in any rule book. It is found in the halls of Congress and in the back  rooms of
the State Department. It is shaped by the foreign policy goals of the  United
States and applied according to who's in and who's out.

The Irish are in favor now. Palestinians are not.

The government wants to prod peace talks in Ireland but believes that peace
talks in the Middle East are thwarted by Palestinians.

The Irish have powerful friends in Congress; the Arabs have cautious
acquaintances.

"It's selective enforcement of these laws - and it's against people who  have
politics the government doesn't agree with, and people who don't have  political
clout," says constitutional law attorney David Cole.

It has always been so. The United States has been kicking people out for  their
politics since the 18th century, when it decided it didn't like the  leanings of
the French.

Still, many contend the system is now out of kilter, with the U.S.  government
willing to violate its own Constitution.

The government is making lists of its enemies.

The State Department, under orders from Congress, recently designated 30
organizations as terrorist. Supporting those groups is a felony. The list was
issued despite Supreme Court rulings that an individual has the constitutional
right to support any group he chooses, as long as he is not actively involved
in illegal activities.

The government is using secret evidence.

In more than a dozen cases, to keep immigrants in jail or deny asylum, the  FBI
and U.S. Immigration and Naturalization Service are introducing classified
evidence alleging ties to terrorists. The immigrant cannot see the proof,
circumventing the constitutional right to due process.

The INS has had such power for years, but its new aggressiveness reflects
Congress' get-tough directive, the Anti-Terrorism Act of 1996.

"It's not fair. It's questionable constitutionality. And it is a fact of  life,"

 says immigration attorney and American University law professor  Michael
Maggio. "It's been political since the beginning of this country. The  three
themes of immigration law have always been race, economy and ideology.

"I can understand the nexus between immigration and foreign policy," he  says.
"What bothers me is the possibility that he (the immigrant) cannot  prove his
innocence."

   Late in June, more than 60 people convened in Washington, D.C. There were
immigration lawyers and civil rights activists, constitutional experts and
ultra-liberals, Muslims and Arabs and African-Americans.

The Irish were there, too. Gabriel Megahey, who spent five years in a U.S.
prison in the 1980s for smuggling guns to the IRA, represented a group of  Irish
immigrants seeking relief. Known as the Irish 6, the group includes Noel
Gaynor, who at 19 was the lookout when the IRA murdered a police officer in
Northern Ireland more than two decades ago.

Gaynor and the others moved to the United States to escape persecution and
build new lives. The INS began deportation proceedings on visa violations.

Also in Washington was Sami Al-Arian of Tampa. The brother-in-law of the  jailed
Palestinian college teacher, Mazen Al-Najjar, Al-Arian is himself under
investigation by the FBI and INS, his application for citizenship denied.
Al-Najjar has been ordered deported. Federal agents say the two men are tied  to
the Islamic Jihad.

Those at the conference talked about secret evidence cases and terrorist  lists.
They shared the trade secrets of the dispossessed. And they launched  the
National Coalition to Protect Political Freedom.

"On the one hand, we had people who have served (criminal) sentences, we  had
people who have been convicted of trying to smuggle arms to their old
countries," Al-Arian says of the coalition. "On the other hand (we) had  other
people who are not members of a political organization, who have  committed no
crimes."

Al-Arian felt their futures would be determined less by merit and more by
politics.

Two months later, the State Department suspended deportation proceedings
against the Irish 6, saying it wanted to encourage peace talks in Ireland. For
legally entangled Arabs and Muslims, there was nothing.

"If you look at the secret evidence cases across the country," says Cole,
"they're all against Arabs and Muslims."

In at least a dozen cases, the government is holding Arab immigrants based  on
classified evidence. The cases share striking similarities: The accused  spends
years in the United States crime-free, but overstays a visitor or  student visa.
The government keeps him in jail on secret evidence alleging,  often in a
one-sentence summary, that he is "associated with a terrorist  organization."

In Tampa, Al-Najjar was jailed after media reports in early 1995 charged  that a
University of South Florida-affiliated think tank he supervised was a  front for
Middle East terrorists. In October 1995, former think tank member  and USF
teacher Ramadan Abdullah Shallah turned up as the new head of the  Palestinian
Islamic Jihad.

Al-Najjar, 40, says he was involved in writing and editing political  magazines,
not terrorism. Al-Arian, a USF professor and the think tank's  founder, says
they are the victims of prejudice. An investigation ordered by  USF president
Betty Castor found no evidence of suspect activities, but the  federal
investigation continues.

The government says it's just doing its job. Secret evidence is used in  those
rare cases to protect federal agents and informants in terrorist
investigations, and to ensure the safety of the public.

"They come in as students and then they don't leave. They go to one  employer,
then they go to work for another employer. They violate the rules of  this
country," says INS spokesman Russ Bergeron.

"The complaints about the use of classified information may be meant to  deflect
scrutiny of the fact that there is an immigration violation in each of  these
cases," he says.

The deportation of Gaynor, 43, is based on his failure to report his  criminal
conviction on his visa application. Al-Najjar, 40, is being deported  for an
expired student visa. He contends he qualifies for asylum but says his  politics
have brought pursuit.

Immigrants here on visitor, student or temporary work visas do not
automatically draw INS attention when their visas expire. Nationally, three  out
of four undocumented immigrants are never deported.

Violators are caught in workplace raids, through computer checks when they
travel abroad, or if arrested for an unrelated crime. The immigrant is allowed
to rectify the violation, or placed in deportation proceedings. Rarely is he  or
she detained.

Arab-Americans contend they are treated differently: singled out and jailed  for
political reasons. "It's no doubt it's political persecution," Al-Arian  says.

In the most notorious case, seven Palestinians and a Kenyan have battled
deportation for nearly 10 years in California.

Known as the LA 8, they first were accused of supporting communism under a
McCarthy-era immigration law called McCarren-Walter. When Congress repealed
McCarren-Walter in 1989, the INS tried to deport them for associating with the
Palestine Liberation Organization. A federal judge said that was targeting  them
for their politics. In Round Three, the government invoked provisions of  the
Anti-Terrorism Act, already under attack as unconstitutional. The judge  said
forget it and an appeals court concurred. Now the government is plotting  Round
Four.

"They can't give up," says Kit Gage of the National Lawyers Guild and an  LA 8
attorney. "This case is the clearest challenge to the Anti-Terrorism  Act. I
think it will end up in the Supreme Court."

That's the last place it should go, says David Stein, head of a group
advocating stronger immigration controls, the Federation for American
Immigration Reform.

The courts are no place to decide "who we are," he says.

"Immigration should be subject to the political process, not the judicial
process. We should not have courts taking away the power of the Legislature to
say who can come in and who can't stay."

   Determining who is in and who is out is simple: Look at who enters the
country and who is turned away.

More than 500,000 Cubans have immigrated to the United States over the past  30
years. Last month alone, another 5,000 Cubans became eligible for the green
card needed to live and work here by hitching a ride on legislation for  Central
American refugees.

Called the Victims of Communism Bill, it is meant to help thousands of
Nicaraguans who fled the leftist Sandinista government in the 1980s. The bill
gives permanent resident status to 100,000 Nicaraguans and suspends  deportation
proceedings for 250,000 Salvadorans and Guatemalans and 30,000  East Europeans.

The bill ignores 36,000 Haitians, who fled a ruthless military regime.

Nor were refugees from Lebanon, Egypt, Iraq, Iran and other Middle Eastern  and
African countries included in the relief.

"I don't want to begrudge people getting legal status. But it pits one  group
against another group," says Joan Friedland, an attorney with the  Florida
Immigration Advocacy Center in Miami.

"All you can say about the Haitians is that they're black . . . and that  they
are not a group in political favor."

The Haitians have no value to the United States as negotiating chips.

In contrast, the suspension of the Irish deportations and omission of the  IRA
from the list of terrorist organizations were used to advance a U.S.  policy
goal: peace talks with Sinn Fein, the political arm of the IRA. (Should  the
peace talks falter, the INS likely would resume deportation proceedings  against
the Irish 6.)

One ethnic group is not more worthy, just more strategic in world affairs.

Due to overwhelming support for a free Cuba, Cuban refugees are on the
immigration A-list. They may automatically become permanent U.S. residents
after one year. For others, the wait is typically three times as long, with no
guarantee.

Politics also help determine if an extremist group makes or escapes the
terrorist hit list.

The Anti-Terrorism Act mandated that the State Department designate  terrorist
organizations. The department proceeded slowly because of questions  of
constitutionality.

The delay infuriated Rep. Benjamin Gilman, R-New York, chairman of the  House
International Relations Committee, who threatened to slash department  salaries
until the list was produced. When it was released, Gilman said the
"administration is finally waking up to the serious threat of foreign  terrorist
organizations."

Yet the same congressman six months earlier urged President Clinton to  permit
one of the Irish 6, Brian Pearson, to stay in the United States. "His
participation in a bombing of a police barracks in Northern Ireland, for which
he served his time . . . was based on the nature of the political situation at
the time," Gilman wrote.

Legislators apply their labels with Post-It Note adhesive: One violent  attack
is heinous terrorism, another a political act. A radical group  operating solely
abroad is less evil than one also operating in the United  States. Followers of
Islam are extremists, believers in God are devout.

Always, there are politics.

The suspensions of the Irish cases, for example, are not solely due to the
peace talks but the result of years of lobbying by Irish-Americans, says
University of California at Berkeley law school professor Carolyn Blum.

"Look at (immigration) quotas," says James Harrington, Gaynor's attorney  and
the son of Irish citizens. "Then look at who they have representing them.  The
quotas for the Irish are high because Sen. Ted Kennedy and others are
advocates."

The Tampa-area group seeking to free Al-Najjar has made tentative contacts  with
congressional leaders from Florida, but the issue is sensitive.

The powerful Jewish lobby and the United States' strong alliance with  Israel
puts the Arabs in a particularly weak position.

"We're just first-generation immigrants," Al-Arian says of Palestinians.  "It's
like building a house brick by brick. If a Sen. Kennedy goes and talks  on the
Irish, there is very little opposition. The minute (a congressman) does
something about Arabs, he's going to find 10 other senators immediately on his
back."

   Though U.S. history has shown that government policy is imperfect -
McCarthyism's witch hunt for communists, the internment of U.S. citizens who
were Japanese-Americans in World War II - most citizens willingly leave thorny
issues like immigration and terrorism to the politicians.

"People still have a basic confidence that the government would not be  doing
something this extreme (keeping Arabs in jail) if it didn't have  evidence,"
Blum says.

The Anti-Terrorism Act, passed in April 1996 after the scares of the World
Trade Center and Oklahoma City bombings, creates secret courts to hear cases  of
accused terrorists. It criminalizes support of certain political groups,
freezes their assets and bars their members' travel. It accelerates  deportation
proceedings, cuts off appeals in federal court of immigration  court decisions
and allows deportation for immigrants who committed minor  crimes years ago.

Thus far no immigrant or citizen has been charged under the act.

"Congress passes laws from time to time giving relief to some and not to
others," says Tommy Baer, international president of B'nai B'rith.

"It doesn't take much imagination to label Islamic Jihad or Hamas as  terrorist
organizations," he says.

Arab-Americans say legislators and citizens seem unable to differentiate
between Muslims and Muslim extremists, between political viewpoints and
criminal acts.

"It is not a very comfortable position to be in," Al-Arian says. "When  we were
fighting for Mazen (Al-Najjar) in the beginning, we were looking  around and we
couldn't find a friend. Then people started calling us."

The Tampa Bay Coalition for Justice and Peace, once mostly members of
Al-Najjar's mosque, now has supporters from the American Indian Movement, the
Hillsborough Interfaith Clergy Association, USF and the national coalition.
They have reached out to national newspaper columnists, sponsored public
forums, and issued a press release condemning the recent terrorist attack in
Egypt.

"There's a morality issue that transcends all this," says Baer, who was  born in
Berlin and is an immigration lawyer in Virginia.

"Throughout history, we have been a safe haven for people in distress. I  would
hate for us to lose that." It is key "to the moral makeup of the  United
States."  Terrorism's Top 30

Under the Anti-Terrorism Act, the State Department has designated 30 foreign
organizations as terrorist. If you give money or other material support to
them, you could be fined or imprisoned for up to 10 years:

1. Palestine Islamic Jihad - Shaqaqi Faction (Palestinian)

2. Abu Nidal Group (Palestinian)

3. Popular Front for the Liberation of Palestine (Palestinian)

4. Popular Front for the Liberation of Palestine - General Command
(Palestinian)

5. Palestine Liberation Front - Abu Abbas Faction (Palestinian)

6. Democratic Front for the Liberation of Palestine - Hawatmeh Faction
(Palestinian)

7. Hamas (Palestinian)

8. Hezbollah (Lebanese)

9. Gama'a al-Islamiyya (Egyptian)

10. Al-Jihad (Egyptian)

11. Kurdistan Workers Party (Turkish)

12. Revolutionary People's Liberation Party - Front (Turkish)

13. Mujahedin-e Khalq Organization (Iranian)

14. Harakat ul-Ansar (Pakistani)

15. Armed Islamic Group (Algerian)

16. Kach (Israeli)

17. Kahane Chai (Israeli)

18. Revolutionary Organization 17 November (Greek)

19. Revolutionary People's Struggle (Greek)

20. Liberation Tigers of Tamil Eelam (Sri Lankan)

21. Khmer Rouge (Cambodian)

22. Japanese Red Army (Japanese)

23. Aum Shinrikyo (Japanese)

24. Abu Sayyaf Group (Filipino)

25. Manuel Rodriquez Patriotic Front Dissidents (Chilean)

26. Shining Path (Peruvian)

27. Tupac Amaru Revolutionary Movement (Peruvian)

28. National Liberation Army (Colombian)

29. Revolutionary Armed Forces of Colombia (Colombian)

30. Euzkadi Ta Askatasuna (Spanish)



NOEL GAYNOR

Irish National

Convicted in police killing

Deportation suspended

Free

MAZEN AL-NAJJAR

Palestinian

No charges filed

Deportation ordered

Jailed without bond

LOAD-DATE: December 23, 1997

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: COLOR PHOTO, Times files, (6); Noel Gaynor; Mazen Al-Najjar; On July
4th supporters of Mazen Al-Najjar protest his imprisonment on secret evidence at
a rally at the Al-Qassem Mosque in Tampa. ; Muhammad Sirajuddin seeks the ear of
city leaders at Tampa City Hall at a July 25 protest of Mazen Al-Najjar's
detention.; Sami Al-Arian, a computer engineering professor at the University of
South Florida.; Mazen Al-Najjar's wife, Fedaa, and their daughters, Yara, 9,
Safa, 2, and Sarah, 7.

                    Copyright 1997 Times Publishing Company


                              224 of 280 DOCUMENTS

                         St. Petersburg Times (Florida)

               August 01, 1999, Sunday, 0 South Pinellas Edition

Castro's remarks don't concern Chretien

BYLINE: JIM FOX

SECTION: NATIONAL; THE CANADA REPORT; Pg. 19A

LENGTH: 754 words



Prime Minister Jean Chretien says he's not concerned that Cuban President Fidel
Castro called Canada "enemy territory" after defections at the Pan American
Games in Winnipeg.

Two members of Cuba's shooting team, a trainer with the softball team and a
journalist sought refuge in Canada last weekend during the games.

"We are competing in enemy territory," Castro said in a speech Monday,
suggesting that the Canadian news media encouraged Cubans to defect. He also
complained about "dirty tricks and filth" aimed at Cuban athletes.

Relations between Canada and Cuba have chilled since Chretien criticized what he
called human rights abuses. He appealed to Castro to release four political
prisoners jailed earlier this year.

Canada has since canceled some aid programs and visits by government officials.

"It seems to me that he went over the top a little bit with his speech and we
hope that he might have second thoughts about that," Foreign Affairs Minister
Lloyd Axworthy said.

Canada is still pursuing an "open engagement policy with Cuba" based on good
economic ties and political relations, he said.

Immigrants moved to jail

Nineteen illegal Chinese immigrants believed to be involved in a human smuggling
ring have been moved to the Vancouver city jail.

Canadian immigration officials made the decision Thursday because of security
reasons.

It's suspected that the immigrants were involved in organizing a protest among
the 123 Chinese immigrants being housed at a military base after trying to
illegally enter Canada.

The immigrants, who want to stay in Canada as refugees, were found crammed in
the cargo hold of a ship off Vancouver Island on July 20. They spent 38 days
crossing the ocean in the vessel, which had no toilets or drinking water.

In brief

Canada's Justice Department plans to pursue at least 12 more war crimes cases in
the next two years as it moves to bring suspected Nazi war criminals to justice.
Of the 16 cases tried so far, three people have been convicted and deported, and
three suspects have died. The other trials are pending. The cases allege
suspects lied about their war-time activities when they applied for Canadian
citizenship.

Two teenage boys are being held by police in Sudbury, Ontario, after their van
struck and killed police Sgt. Richard Mcdonald, 38, as he placed a
tire-deflating spike belt on the Trans-Canada Highway. The van, which was being
chased Wednesday by police who suspected it held stolen goods, crashed into a
post, killing another teenager inside the vehicle.

The fierce circulation war by four daily newspapers, including the new National
Post based in Toronto, has led to Torstar Corp. reporting weaker second-quarter
profits. The publisher of the Toronto Star had a $ 21-million profit in the
three months ending June 30, down from $ 27-million in 1998, due to lower
advertising revenues.

Facts and figures

Mortgage costs are on the rise again as banks raised rates by up to .35 percent.
A one-year home mortgage is 7.05 percent, while the five-year rate is 7.75
percent.

There's little change in the Canadian dollar at 66.39 cents U.S. on Friday. The
U.S. dollar was $ 1.5062 Canadian before exchange fees.

The Bank of Canada key interest rate is 4.75 percent. The prime lending rate is
6.25 percent.

Markets were mixed. The Toronto Stock Exchange 300 Index was 7,081 points
Friday. Montreal was 3,789 points, Alberta 2,572 points and Vancouver 415
points.

Lotto 6-49: (Wednesday) 7, 24, 28, 37, 48 and 49; bonus 8. (July 24) 4, 7, 10,
25, 35 and 38; bonus 13.

Regional briefs

Voters opted for the Conservatives and Premier John Hamm, a former family
doctor, in Tuesday's Nova Scotia election, ending 16 months of rule for the
minority Liberal government. Twenty-nine Conservatives were elected to the
52-seat Legislature after a campaign fought on fiscal responsibility. The New
Democrats had 12 members elected, the Liberals 11.

A 13.7 percent pay raise over three years has been accepted by Saskatchewan's
8,400 nurses. The contract must be accepted by the province's health districts
in a vote expected in mid-August. The nurses staged a 10-day illegal strike in
April and their union was fined $ 120,000 for contempt of court.

New Brunswick Judge Jocelyne Moreau-Berube, who was removed from the bench after
commenting in court that residents of the Acadian Peninsula are dishonest, has
her job back. Judge Jean Claude Angers reversed a recommendation of the
province's judicial council that she be fired.


LOAD-DATE: August 2, 1999

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                    Copyright 1999 Times Publishing Company


                              225 of 280 DOCUMENTS

                         St. Petersburg Times (Florida)

                September 19, 1999, Sunday, 2 Late Tampa Edition

BYLINE: GEORGE BARRY

SECTION: TAMPA & STATE; VOLUNTEER SPOTLIGHT; Pg. 8B

LENGTH: 662 words



LUTHERAN SERVICES OF FLORIDA

LOCATION: 2700 W Dr. Martin Luther King Blvd., suite 308, Tampa. (813) 875-1202

A BRIEF HISTORY: Lutheran Services of Florida began in 1982 as the Lutheran
Ministries of Florida, which sought to find homes for refugees. The agency was
spawned from the Lutheran International Refugee Services out of New York.
According to Lutheran Services spokeswoman Joy Margolis, the rapid increase of
immigrants resulting from the Vietnam War and the Mariel boat lift inspired
members of the Lutheran Church to form a separate human services organization.
Lutheran Services began with two programs, the refugee and immigration program
and the guardianship program, both of which operated primarily in Hillsborough
and Pinellas counties. Now the agency operates more than 60 programs throughout
the state.

WHAT THE AGENCY DOES: In its 17 years, Lutheran Services of Florida has helped
more than 300,000 people, says James Wells, chief operating officer for the
agency. The organization operates an array of statewide programs focusing on
resettlement, guardianship, church and community relations, youth and family
services, and children services. Resettlement programs include a refugee and
immigration program to provide a safe haven to people fleeing persecution,
housing programs for the homeless, employment assistance and legal services. The
guardianship program is designed to provide comfortable living to people the
state court system has declared incapacitated. Lutheran Services provides
community support to assist victims of natural disasters through its Disaster
Relief Team and operates a network of youth shelters and safe houses for teens.
The agency also provides family counseling and child services, which include a
Head Start Program and a food program to instruct licensed day care providers to
develop menus for children. "Our mission is to serve people who are hurting, who
are in need,'" said Wells. "We want to bring God's healing hope and help to
people.'"

CHIEF OPERATING OFFICER: James Wells, 57, has been with Lutheran Services since
1998. Before coming to the agency, Wells owned an insurance agency in Orlando,
where he was active in his Lutheran church and served on the board of Lutheran
Services. Wells received a bachelor's degree in engineering from the University
of Cincinnati and his master's in business administration from the University of
Dayton in Ohio. Wells has two adult children, Robin Getsee, 28, and Gretchen
Wells, 22. Wells' compensation package totals $ 89,000.

WHERE THE MONEY GOES: Lutheran Services began the 1997 fiscal year with a
deficit close to $ 1-million. Revenues totaled more than $ 14-million. Most of
the agency's revenue comes from government funding. The rest is from individual,
corporate and church contributions. The majority of the expenditures, about $
7.5-million, went to pay wages, salaries and benefits. Program expenses took up
more than $ 5-million, while general and administrative expenditures totaled
just less than $ 2.5-million. The agency's expenses totaled close to $
16-million.

WHAT THE VOLUNTEERS DO: Lutheran Services is always looking for volunteers to
help with general and professional duties, from office and clerical work to
research and counseling. Each of the programs Lutheran Services offers is made
possible through the volunteer work force the agency employs.

ONE VOLUNTEER: Richard Heidermann, 70, has been volunteering with Lutheran
Services since 1991, after retiring from his career as an attorney. Heidermann
volunteers three days a week for as long as needed, he said. He works as a
translator in the refugee and immigration program, which assists people in their
efforts to establish a life in the United States. He also uses his legal
background to help research new immigration laws. Heidermann received the
Lutheran Services "Soaring Award," which the agency gives to volunteers for
outstanding service.

- GEORGE BARRY


LOAD-DATE: September 20, 1999

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DISTRIBUTION: TAMPA & STATE

GRAPHIC: BLACK AND WHITE PHOTO; BLACK AND WHITE PHOTO, TONY LOPEZ; James Wells ;
Volunteer Richard Heidermann, who assists with research and translation at
Lutheran Services of Florida, works on computer files for the organization's
refugee and immigration program.

                    Copyright 1999 Times Publishing Company


                              226 of 280 DOCUMENTS

                         St. Petersburg Times (Florida)

                         September 29, 1999, Wednesday

Ellis Island scenes come to life

BYLINE: CAROL LOVE

SECTION: NEIGHBORHOOD TIMES; Pg. 18

LENGTH: 726 words

DATELINE: ST. PETERSBURG



Eleven students in Carol Huber's gifted class at Azalea Middle School spent
Monday afternoon re-creating an average day on Ellis Island, circa 1892.

They came into New York's harbor from several different European ports.
Passports and suitcases were clutched in hand. Some were well dressed; some,
threadbare. Each shuffled through the questions and bureaucracy, hoping to enter
the United States.

The students are working on a unit titled "Where Did We Come From as a Nation
and Where Did I Come From Individually?"

"We're a nation of immigrants," the teacher said. "And certainly our heritage is
not all European, but because so many immigrants came through Ellis Island -
that's what we simulate."

Each student had been given a persona and a few biographical facts, such as the
"immigrant's" religion and political beliefs. From there it is up to the student
to flesh out the life of an immigrant from Ireland, Germany or Russia. These
three countries were chosen because they represent the ones from which a
majority of Huber's students are descended.

Although Huber has been teaching this unit for 10 years, this summer was her
first visit to the real Ellis Island. She was able to bring back home videos and
a video she bought at the park's gift shop to give students a real view and feel
of their port of entry.

Each Azalea immigrant faced four stations.

At the first one, passports were checked and general questions were asked.

One authentic twist was having a student fill out name tags and writing the
unfamiliar names phonetically. Many names were misspelled, just as was common
for those entering Ellis Island.

Huber also brought in "interpreters" for those whose characters did not speak
English. Students from another class, not familiar with the project, were chosen
to give the authentic confusion and miscommunication that was common at the port
of entry.

At the next station, religious affiliation, political beliefs, vocation and
criminal/non-criminal status were determined.

The third station was a health inspection. The student's biographical sketches
did not give everyone a clean bill of health.

The last station found the immigrants exchanging currency and pledging to be
good citizens.

 What did the class gain from this?

 "I learned just about everything there is to know about immigration," said
14-year-old Nathan Morris. "And what they went through."

  Huber said that the movie Titanic has made it easier for recent classes to
envision the problems of class that immigrants faced.

 "They remember the closed gates on steerage passengers," she said, referring to
the movie passengers who were not allowed to be first to board the lifeboats.

 "A picture's worth a thousand words, even though it's Hollywood."

  Huber also uses this unit to help students understand the origins of street
gangs. They explored the early turn-of-the-century ethnic gangs and were able to
see that the reasons for gangs then - the need for identity, protection,
fellowship, a sense of belonging, etc. - are exactly the reasons gangs form
today. In fact, turn-of-the-century writings on gangs mirrored a list from
Pinellas County's school safety consultants.

  Huber uses this as a civics lesson in what happens when a group of people feel
alienated and are not integrated into a culture.

  "My focus in this group is tolerance for every ethnic group and for cultural
diversity," she said.

  The year 1892 was chosen for Monday's immigration because that was the first
year that Ellis Island was really up and running. Before that, each state had
its own immigration procedures and stations.

  According to the Ellis Island Immigration Museum Web site, Ellis Island was
the gateway through which more than 12-million immigrants passed between 1892
and 1954. More than 100-million Americans can trace their ancestry in the United
States to a man, woman or child whose name passed from a steamship manifest
sheet to an inspector's record book in the great Registry Room at Ellis Island.

Huber hopes the students take away a lifelong civics lesson.

"I hope they gain an understanding that the United States is what it is," she
said, "because of its cultural diversity and that the same cultural diversity
that makes us wonderful and unique also gives us some of the problems that we
have."


LOAD-DATE: September 29, 1999

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: BLACK AND WHITE PHOTO, CHERIE DIEZ; Nathan Morris, 14, in a cap, plays
a wealthy, 52-year-old Russian being interviewed by an immigration officer
played by Daniel Champagne, 13, in a re-enactment Monday of a common Ellis
Island scene at Azalea Middle School in St. Petersburg.

                    Copyright 1999 Times Publishing Company


                              227 of 280 DOCUMENTS

                         St. Petersburg Times (Florida)

               October 03, 1999, Sunday, 0 South Pinellas Edition

Bid adieu to French? Quebec won't do it

BYLINE: JIM FOX

SECTION: NATIONAL; THE CANADA REPORT; Pg. 14A

LENGTH: 607 words



The Quebec government, which seeks independence from Canada to preserve its
French culture, has another language worry.

French is in jeopardy due to the province's low birthrate, which has cut the
percentage of francophones, especially in Montreal. Also, foreign immigrants to
Quebec are choosing English as their second language.

Premier Lucien Bouchard said his Parti Quebecois government will aggressively
protect the language. If it appears French-speaking people in Montreal are
declining to the point of being a minority in 10 to 15 years, "you have to do
something about it," he said.

Louise Beaudoin, minister responsible for the French language, said efforts must
be made to better integrate immigrants. She is concerned that 75 percent of new
immigrants in Montreal prefer English over French.

Bouchard, whose government has "language police" that ensure business signs are
predominantly in French, said once the issue is studied, measures would be
taken, likely through social policies.

In brief

 Justice Minister Anne McLellan wants a strategy to deal with serious criminal
offenders younger than 12, now beyond the reach of the law. She said the
government must work with the provinces, social welfare agencies and communities
to deal with the 100 or so children who commit violent crimes each year.

 The proposed merger of Air Canada and Canadian Airlines is a "private dealing,"

 Prime Minister Jean Chretien said Tuesday even though the Cabinet must approve
a sale. Onex Corp. of Toronto is offering $ 5.7-billion to buy the airlines in a
merger that critics say will lessen competition and limit consumer choice.

 A Canadian Coast Guard vessel helped dislodge the Norwegian Sky cruise ship
last weekend after it ran aground on a sandbar in the St. Lawrence River. The
new liner had altered its course to watch whales. The ship returned to Quebec
City and the 1,900 passengers were flown to Boston, their destination.

Facts and figures

Residential mortgage rates were lowered by up to one-quarter percent. A one-year
closed mortgage fell to 6.8 percent. A five-year closed term is 7.7 percent.

The Canadian dollar continues to climb, reaching 68.31 U.S. cents. The U.S.
dollar was $ 1.4640 Canadian before exchange fees.

The Bank of Canada's key interest rate is 4.75 percent. The prime lending rate
is 6.25 percent.

Canadian stock markets are mixed, with the Toronto 300 Index at 6,885 points.
Montreal is at 3,651 points, Alberta, 2,828 points and Vancouver 416 points.

Lotto 6-49: (Sept. 25) 2, 19, 36, 45, 46 and 47; bonus 22.

Regional briefs

 Calgary's Roman Catholic schools reopened Tuesday for 43,000 students after a
tentative contract agreement ended a one-day lockout. Linda Wellman, board
chair, said the lockout helped the two sides reach a deal.

 The Alberta government is looking at a $ 2-billion budget surplus from soaring
energy and income tax revenues. Treasurer Stockwell Day said the province's
windfall will be used to to pay down debt while $ 500-million will be spent on
such things as education, health and fighting forest fires.

 A contract that ties wages to copper prices has been approved by 1,000 British
Columbia miners who have been off the job since May. The five-year deal for
workers at Highland Valley Copper near Kamloops allows for a 15 percent wage
fluctuation based on the metal's price, now at a 12-year low.

 There's no sign of an early resolution to a gold miners' strike - now in its
fourth year - at Goldcorp's Red Lake mine in northwestern Ontario. The United
Steelworkers of America rejected a proposal to end the walkout by 187 workers.


LOAD-DATE: October 4, 1999

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: BLACK AND WHITE PHOTO, Associated Press; Onex Corp. of Toronto offered
$ 5.7-billion to buy Air Canada and Canadian Airlines.

                    Copyright 1999 Times Publishing Company


                              228 of 280 DOCUMENTS

                         St. Petersburg Times (Florida)

                          October 27, 1999, Wednesday

Palestinian held on secret evidence freed

BYLINE: SUSAN ASCHOFF

SECTION: NATIONAL; Pg. 1A

LENGTH: 950 words



The Justice Department abruptly drops its case against the immigrant who had
been in custody for 19 months and releases him.

An immigrant jailed 19 months on secret government evidence linking him to
terrorists is free after the Justice Department decided to drop its case.

The release of Hany Kiareldeen in New Jersey came late Monday, five days after a
federal judge found the use of secret evidence to keep him in jail
unconstitutional, the first such ruling for a detained immigrant.

Seven judges in the immigration system had also ruled that Kiareldeen should be
freed and given residency. The judges decided he successfully rebutted the
government's allegations that he threatened Attorney General Janet Reno and met
with one of the World Trade Center bombers, but the government continued to file
appeals.

The victory was hailed by civil rights and immigrant advocates as a major blow
against the use of secret evidence.

About 20 immigrants across the country remain jailed on government evidence
neither they nor their attorneys are allowed to see. They include Tampa resident
Mazen Al-Najjar, a former University of South Florida teacher jailed 21/2 years
on alleged ties to the Palestinian Islamic Jihad.

"It took 19 months before the INS admitted it had made a terrible mistake" in
the Kiareldeen case, David Cole, a constitutional law expert who worked on the
case, said Tuesday. "The INS, for a year and a half, has been crying national
security risk. We have to be very skeptical. They've been crying wolf."

The 31-year-old Kiareldeen is married to a U.S. citizen and moved to the United
States from Gaza in 1990. He was arrested on a student visa violation in March
1998 and told in a brief written statement that the FBI said he threatened to
kill Reno and met with a World Trade Center bomber at his home. During his
immigration hearings, Kiareldeen used rent receipts, phone records and other
testimony to show that he did not live at the address of the alleged meeting and
that the likely source of the accusations is a bitter ex-wife.

Immigration Judge Daniel Meisner in April called the government's case
unreliable and granted Kiareldeen residency and $ 1,500 bail. The government
appealed. After a flurry of favorable appeal decisions and government stays over
the past 10 days, Kiareldeen's release Monday came so suddenly he and his
attorneys thought it was a trick.

The Justice Department had until midnight Monday to decide if it would continue
to press its case, most likely by having the INS ask Reno to review it. Instead,
the department decided not to take that "extraordinary step," according to a
news release issued about 10 p.m. Monday.

By bowing out, the government avoided a more critical showdown in federal
appeals court Tuesday. A panel in the 3rd U.S. Circuit Court of Appeals was
scheduled to consider an order from U.S. District Judge William H. Walls freeing
Kiareldeen on constitutional grounds: His due process right to confront his
accusers had been denied.

No hearing was needed.

By releasing Kiareldeen in the middle of the night, the government also tried to
avoid publicity about its defeat, said Kiareldeen's attorneys, who held a news
conference Tuesday afternoon.

A Justice Department official said Tuesday that the Kiareldeen case will have no
impact on other secret evidence cases. The government maintains it must withhold
information to protect agents, sources and the public safety.

On Monday night, Kiareldeen was told to pack his belongings, then was put on the
sidewalk outside the Hudson County Correctional Center near Newark, N.J., about
10:30 p.m. His brother Ghassan Khaireldin was phoned to pick him up. Attorney
Regis Fernandez rushed to the facility to find Kiareldeen sitting in an
immigration officer's car. Fearing the government meant to transfer Kiareldeen
to another jail, Fernandez said he began screaming for Kiareldeen to get out of
the vehicle.

For a short time before Fernandez arrived, Kiareldeen had been left alone on the
sidewalk. He told Fernandez he feared he was being set up to look like an
escapee, so he could be shot.

"I took him to a gas station, and Ghassan came there. We gave him a beer. We're
in the parking lot, blasting Arabic music on the radio, hugging," Fernandez
said.

Kiareldeen went to his brother's home, where friends brought him stuffed grape
leaves and chicken and he phoned his parents in Gaza. He said he could not sleep
because he was too tired.

"It's too late, it took too long," he said of his vindication. "I'm going to try
and get my life together."

Kiareldeen has a 5-year-old daughter and 9-year-old stepson. He worked at his
brother's electronics store.

Fernandez said he was elated, but called it a half-victory.

"There are other people sitting in America's prisons. Their cases are just as
meritorious. The government will try to say this is an isolated incident, a
single case won," said Fernandez, who with attorney Houeida Saad of Virginia
represented Kiareldeen without pay.

"If Hany weren't Arab or Palestinian, he would not have had to spend a day in
jail," said Ghassan Khaireldin. "They (government) assume every Palestinian is
guilty of terrorist associations. And they underestimated . . . our conviction
(and) that a lot of good Americans would stand up for us."

In Tampa, the brother-in-law of jailed Mazen Al-Najjar, himself the target of
FBI scrutiny for alleged ties to terrorists, said Kiareldeen's win is
"exhilarating." The decision should be helpful in Al-Najjar's continuing appeal
of deportation, said Sami Al-Arian, a USF computer engineering professor.

"Hopefully, this will open the public's eyes," he said.


LOAD-DATE: October 27, 1999

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                    Copyright 1999 Times Publishing Company


                              229 of 280 DOCUMENTS

                         St. Petersburg Times (Florida)

              November 02, 1999, Tuesday, 0 South Pinellas Edition

Immigrants do better without bilingual learning

SECTION: EDITORIAL; LETTERS; Pg. 9A

LENGTH: 1823 words



Re: Brothers charismatic, and Building Hispanic connections, Oct. 17.

Your articles about the Ibargeun family and the Clearwater Hispanic connections
have reinforced my belief that bilingual education has never been the answer to
help refugees and immigrants to become part of mainstream society. I can see
proof of that in my own family.

When my family came from Cuba in 1968, my three youngest siblings were 13, 9 and
7 years old. After a week in Miami at the Freedom House, we flew to New Jersey
and settled in Dover where my aunt lived. My youngest sister and two brothers
were placed in a regular classroom and within three months they were speaking
English. The rest of us went to regular high school classes and took English as
a second language at night.

My father had learned English with a private tutor when he was growing up and
although he has a thick accent when he speaks, he understands and is understood.

My mother on the other hand, never learned English in Cuba and had never worked
outside the home. When we arrived in New Jersey she was hired by a manufacturing
company even though she could not speak English. At that time companies were
hiring supervisors who could speak Spanish so they could communicate with the
employees who couldn't speak English, instead of insisting that their employees
learn English or providing them with the opportunity to attend classes. To this
day, 31 years later, my mother cannot speak English. Everything was available in
Spanish: driver's license tests, citizenship, election ballots, Mass,
television, radio, etc. There was no need for her to learn it.

Margarito Perez arrived in Clearwater from Mexico in 1985, that was 14 years
ago, and he still speaks through an interpreter, just like my mother. The
quickest way to learn a foreign language is through immersion, and by providing
all services in Spanish or any other language, we are keeping these people from
learning the language that would make it possible for them to be and feel part
of the community.

My hat's off to the Ibargeun family. I, as a Cuban from Camaguey, am proud of
them.

Chely Hernandez Miller, Redington Beach

Let's make English official

 We support the passage of "Official English" legislation as being necessary for
the future well-being of this country. This means only that English is the only
language that may be used in the conduct of official governmental proceedings,
and in the preparation of official governmental documents at local, county,
state and federal levels.

Despite the lies and misleading statements by professional excess-immigration
groups, this does not inhibit the use of other languages in the workplace or
socially or at home, nor does it attempt to degrade the cultural heritage of any
group(s) of persons. It is not racially biased or discriminatory in any way.
"Official English" simply formalizes the urgent need to protect the future of
this nation before we are torn asunder.

We fear that all our efforts are being subverted by an unholy alliance of
do-gooders, liberals, vote-buying politicians and profit-intensive exploiters of
low-cost menial labor.

We fear that this nation cannot afford the cost of all governmental functions
being conducted in a multiplicity of languages. (Remember, if Spanish becomes a
second language, there are many speakers of other languages who have great pride
in their own language.) Can you imagine how many translators and interpreters
will be required by each congressional representative and all other elected or
appointed officials?

R.J. Radford, Clearwater

Something is rotten in St. Petersburg

 Re: A tiny group speaks up in a city of whispers, by Mary Jo Melone, Oct. 26.

Finally, someone with the proper words to describe a totally unacceptable
situation that exists and has had a continuing dramatic impact on our everyday
life in St. Petersburg.

Words alone cannot show enough appreciation to Mary Jo Melone for having the
fortitude to bring the concerns of thousands of taxpayers to bear, in a
well-written, to-the-point column.

Let's also credit Lorraine Margeson for not accepting complacency, as many of us
have done, as she continues to organize against a status quo that is unwilling
to stand up against the veiled threats of violence from the small group of
Uhurus led by Omali Yeshitela.

Hopefully, the residents of our city have been waiting for an election to sweep
out of office all of those who have been caving in to the fear of confrontation.
This certainly has been a study in frustration for those who sincerely care for
our city and wish to polish its national image.

The "weak white mayor" that Melone refers to has let almost every important
problem in our city come down to a black-white issue. This is not the case. In
fact, the black and white issue, except in some scant, isolated cases, only
exists in the minds of a radical few - at least that's how it seems in my
neighborhood, and apparently in Margeson's also.

When our police officers find it necessary to tiptoe around infractions of the
law, something is rotten in St. Petersburg.

Guy U. Nash, St. Petersburg

Attack on Yeshitela is ridiculous

Re: A tiny group speaks up in a city of whispers, by Mary Jo Melone.

As usual, Melone's arguments against Omali Yeshitela are bogus and ridiculous.
As she herself states in her column, crime rates are down in St. Petersburg and
around the country. A meeting of 10 people does not a crime wave make. The real
purpose of Melone's article seems to be to further attack Omali Yeshitela, a
recurring theme of hers.

We have never heard Yeshitela call for lawlessness in this city. What we have
heard Yeshitela call for is an end to the public policy of police containment of
the African community. It is this policy that has been responsible for the
wanton police brutality that we see in black communities all over the country
and which justified the police murder of TyRon Lewis three years ago. It is the
violence associated with the policy of police containment that is dividing
cities throughout this country and returning us to the days of Jim Crow.

The policy of police containment is pessimistic and negative, not to mention
racist. Omalli Yeshitela's proposal, however, is very upbeat and simple. As I
understand it, Yeshitela is calling for the city and its citizens to try
allocating money and capital for economic development in the black community.
This seems quite reasonable to me, and long overdue.

Community commerce and a decent cash flow in the black community could well
spread hope and optimism for the residents of the south side, and it could only
contribute to the unity and prosperity of all of St. Petersburg.

   It seems to me that police Chief Goliath Davis is to be commended for his
courageous, innovative and thoughtful commitment to substituting economic
development for containment of the black community. While police misconduct
continues to plague places like New York and Philadelphia, it is striking that
no major incident of blatant police brutality has taken place on the south side
since Davis' tenure began.

I say let Mary Jo Melone stick to columns discussing her problems with
motherhood and stop demonizing the man who has done more than anyone to unite
St. Petersburg and move it forward. Let Omali Yeshitela's call for economic
justice for the African community bring real peace, equity and prosperity to St.
Petersburg.

Penny Hess, St. Petersburg

Look beyond child support

  Re: Gore takes on deadbeat dads with "responsible fatherhood" plan, Oct. 21.

Vice President Al Gore, like most politicians, doesn't get it. There is more to
being a "responsible father" other than paying child support. There are many
"responsible fathers" out there who do pay their child support and yet are not
able to be "responsible fathers." Most politicians believe that non-custodial
parents (men and women) are good only for the monetary part of being a parent.
That is why there are so many government agencies established just to collect
child support.

Yet there are many psychologists and other professionals who have constantly
proved that the lack of a father in children's lives creates many of our social
problems. Statistics continue to prove that children growing up without a father
in their lives have increased chances to do poorly in school and frequently get
involved in drugs and alcohol at an earlier age. Teenage girls in this situation
have a tendency to become pregnant. Many of our lifetime criminals incarcerated
in our prisons indicate they never had a positive father figure in their lives.
In spite of all the evidence that fathers are important in the lives of our
children, are there any government agencies that help a father maintain that
relationship with his children? Are there any government agencies that will
aggressively pursue moms who deny the father his right to be a father to his
children and help him in his pursuit of being a father? If there are, I would
like to know about them because I don't believe any exist.

The vice president's comments only reinforce the idea that all non-custodial
parents are good for is our paychecks. What a sad state of affairs when the
government maintains that the most important thing in raising a child is money
instead of love, compassion and the values on which this country was founded!

Richard Polkowski, St. Petersburg

Military promises proved empty

Re: Military retirees seek "promise" of free health care, Oct. 9.

The chief petty officer who recruited me in August 1952 did make a promise about
free health care. The lieutenant commander who swore me in made the same
promise. I would have bet my soul that both were honorable men who fully
believed that what they said was true. Both the chief and lieutenant commander
each had over 30 years of service and were on their "last hitch." Looking at the
gold stripes on the chief's sleeve and ribbons on their uniforms, one just knew
these were honorable men. I believed every word they said about the risks, rough
duty, poor pay, honor and privilege of serving to protect my country and about a
grateful country seeing to my health care when I retired.

I suspect that chief got a rude awakening later on. I know the lieutenant
commander did; he was my father. His example taught me two things: Never trust a
promise - implied or written; and there is no such thing as a truly grateful
country.

Arnold C. Larson, Sun City Center

Share your opinions

Letters for publication should be addressed to Letters to the Editor, P.O. Box
1121, St. Petersburg, FL 33731. They can be sent by e-mail to
letters@sptimes.com or by fax to 893-8675.

They should be brief and must include the writer's name, address and phone
number. Please include a handwritten signature when possible.

Letters may be edited for clarity, taste and length. We regret that not all
letters can be published.


LOAD-DATE: November 2, 1999

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: BLACK AND WHITE CARTOON, Don Addis; A Coca-Cola executive shows off the
new temperature-sensitive vending machine to an associate. " ... And her is
where we've locates the temperature gouge ... I mean gauge!" he says.

TYPE: LETTER

                    Copyright 1999 Times Publishing Company


                              230 of 280 DOCUMENTS

                         St. Petersburg Times (Florida)

             November 20, 1999, Saturday, 0 South Pinellas Edition

Student shoots girl at middle school

SOURCE: Compiled from Times Wires

SECTION: NATIONAL; THE NATION IN BRIEF; Pg. 8A

LENGTH: 397 words

DATELINE: DEMING, N.M.



A boy dressed in camouflage shot and critically wounded a 13-year-old female
classmate in the lobby of their middle school Friday.

The boy also pointed a pistol at the principal and assistant principal, who told
him to "stay cool," Superintendent Carlos Viramontes said. The boy was taken
into custody shortly after the 12:45 p.m. shooting at Deming Middle School.

The girl was in critical condition at Thomason Hospital in El Paso, Texas, with
a gunshot wound in the back of the head, a spokeswoman said. Viramontes said
school officials knew of no motive.

Also . . .

EGYPTIAN NOT FREED: An Egyptian immigrant detained almost four years on secret
evidence of terrorist ties but whom immigration judges found to be no threat
came within hours of freedom Friday before the attorney general blocked his
release.

In a highly unusual move, attorneys for the Immigration and Naturalization
Service asked Attorney General Janet Reno to stay the ordered release of Nasser
Ahmed because he is a threat to national security. Reno agreed to keep a stay in
place through 5 p.m. Tuesday, when she is expected to either uphold or overturn
an appeals panel decision Thursday freeing Ahmed.

Ahmed has been detained longer than any of the men known to be held on secret
government evidence in the United States. He is in the Metropolitan Correctional
Center in New York. A Tampa college teacher, Mazen Al-Najjar, has been detained
more than two years in Bradenton on allegations he associates with the
Palestinian Islamic Jihad.

VALUJET TRIAL: The prosecution stumbled Friday in the Miami trial of the
SabreTech jet repair company and two former employees charged in events leading
up to the 1996 Everglades crash of a ValuJet DC-9. After the judge barred one
witness, prosecutors scrambled to get a substitute and got conflicting testimony
from their fill-in witness, mechanic Thomas Silvers, who worked for the company
before the ValuJet crash.

CASTRO PLOT TRIAL: Four men on trial in a 1997 plot to kill Fidel Castro
apparently had been heading toward the Venezuelan airport where the Cuban
president's plane was to land, a witness testified Friday in San Juan, Puerto
Rico. The testimony from Tim Osborne, a graphic artist, apparently was intended
to reinforce prosecutors' contention that the suspects would have been able to
fire at the plane as it came in for a landing.


LOAD-DATE: November 20, 1999

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: DIGEST

                    Copyright 1999 Times Publishing Company


                              231 of 280 DOCUMENTS

                         St. Petersburg Times (Florida)

             December 04, 1999, Saturday, 0 South Pinellas Edition

Tyson may be fighting in Britain

SOURCE: Compiled from Wire Reports

SECTION: SPORTS; Pg. 7C

LENGTH: 322 words

DATELINE: LONDON



Former heavyweight champion Mike Tyson could fight in Britain next month if a
deal can be worked out this weekend, the Associated Press reported.

British promoter Frank Warren is locked in negotiations over money and choice of
an opponent.

The fight would take place either on Jan. 22 at the Millennium Stadium in
Cardiff, Wales, or on Jan. 29 at the MEN Stadium in Manchester, England.

Tyson never has fought in Europe and would be a big attraction.

His last fight was a no-contest against Orlin Norris in Las Vegas on Oct. 23.

Britain's Lennox Lewis, the undisputed world heavyweight champion, has said he
would like to fight Tyson. Lewis' manager, Frank Maloney, said Thursday,
however, that it probably won't happen until 2001.

BERBICK TO STAY IN CANADA: Former heavyweight champion Trevor Berbick received
permission to stay in Canada for five years after immigration authorities tried
to deport him.

The Immigration and Refugee Board said he did not pose a danger despite criminal
convictions that included rape.

Berbick, who came to Canada in 1979 from Jamaica, was told he must obey the law
as a condition for the decision. The board noted Berbick trains young boxers and
said it would "not serve the interests of justice" to deport him.

"It's great," Berbick said from his Montreal home. "I think this has taken 27
years off my life. "It just shows that this is the greatest country in the world
to live in, where justice and equality is concerned."

Berbick will not be able to apply for Canadian citizenship until the five years
are up, but he plans to do so as soon as possible.

LEIJA STOPS BOUDREAUX: "Jesse" James Leija stopped Wayne Boudreaux less than a
minute into the fifth round of their junior welterweight bout late Thursday
night in Corpus Christi, Texas.

Leija, the former WBC junior lightweight champion from San Antonio, improved to
39-4-2. Boudreaux, of New Orleans, is 25-18.


LOAD-DATE: December 4, 1999

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: DIGEST

                    Copyright 1999 Times Publishing Company


                              232 of 280 DOCUMENTS

                         St. Petersburg Times (Florida)

             December 08, 1999, Wednesday, 0 South Pinellas Edition

AN APPEAL FOR FREEDOM

BYLINE: SUSAN ASCHOFF

SECTION: CITY & STATE; Pg. 1B

LENGTH: 1226 words



With new hope, an immigrant jailed on secret evidence faces, a last-resort quest
for justice.

On his first morning of freedom after 3 1/2 years jailed as a dangerous man,
Nasser Ahmed phoned a woman in Tampa he has never met. He told her that, God
willing, her husband, Mazen Al-Najjar, who has been held more than 2 years,
would soon be free as well.

The government, he said, cannot prevail.

Strangers to each other, Ahmed in New York and Al-Najjar in Florida and another
20 men across the country share membership in the same bleak fraternity: Arab
and Muslim immigrants jailed indefinitely on secret government evidence linking
them to terrorists.

The release of Ahmed on Nov. 29, and of another immigrant jailed in New Jersey,
Hany Kiareldeen, on Oct. 25, comes after more than a decade of secret evidence
cases against Arabs and Muslims and three years of intense opposition to the
tactic by civil rights and immigrant groups.

Now it is Mazen Al-Najjar's turn. Denied bail and residency by an immigration
judge and appeals panel, he will take his battle to federal court.

This week his attorneys will seek his immediate release in a habeas petition at
the 11th Circuit Court of Appeals in Atlanta. A habeas is an extraordinary
proceeding of last resort to free a person wrongfully jailed.

"I feel the other side, the government, is losing. They have to lose," Al-Najjar
said in a telephone conversation from the INS detention facility in Bradenton
last week.

He and the others jailed say they are innocent. Critics charge that the
Immigration and Naturalization Service and the FBI are abusing the system in the
name of national security, depriving the men of their constitutional right to
confront their accusers.

Ahmed, a 39-year-old Egyptian, was accused of carrying communications from the
jailed Sheik Omar Abdel Rahman to terrorists opposed to the Egyptian government.
Palestinian Kiareldeen, 31, spent 19 months in jail, accused of meeting with one
of the World Trade Center bombers and threatening Attorney General Janet Reno.

The U.S. government's recent decisions to drop its appeals in the Ahmed and
Kiareldeen cases do not make legal precedent. But they provide momentum for
those still seeking release from detention.

The dramatic developments in the New York and New Jersey cases contrast sharply
with the dearth of good news for Al-Najjar.

His case has lagged on the litigation front.

Florida lawmakers have declined to get involved. Rep. Alcee Hastings of Miami is
the only member of the Florida delegation to join 60 House members sponsoring
legislation to ban secret evidence.

The only congressman who has visited Al-Najjar in jail is Rep. David Bonior of
Michigan.

Several area law firms were asked to take the case pro bono on constitutional
grounds, but none would do so. Friends and family have paid more than $ 100,000
thus far in court costs and to private attorneys, even though they often have
discounted fees.

The specter of domestic terrorism and a prejudice against Arab-Americans and
Muslims blind those who should rush to defend a constitutional right, supporters
say.

The 42-year-old Al-Najjar, a former Arabic teacher at the University of South
Florida who has lived in the United States almost 20 years, was arrested in May
1997 on an expired visa. He was denied bail because of an "association with the
Palestinian Islamic Jihad."

The accusation stems from Al-Najjar's work at a USF-affiliated think tank.
Another member of the think tank, Ramadan Abdullah Shallah, left Tampa in 1995
and assumed leadership of the Palestinian Islamic Jihad. Government agents say
the now-closed institution was a front for abetting Middle East terrorists.

In the 2 1/2 years Al-Najjar's case has moved through the immigration system, he
has been told nothing more.

"In each of these (other) cases they got a little bit of information and were
able to go back to the judge" and defend themselves, said his brother-in-law
Sami Al-Arian. "We have been unable to get anything.

"It took the (appeals panel) 29 months to say the exact same thing as the
immigration judge" and order Al-Najjar deported, Al-Arian said.

His wife, Fedaa Al-Najjar, is not accused of any terrorist ties, but she is also
ordered deported on an expired visa. A petition for review of the Al-Najjars'
deportations and their rejected requests for asylum has already been filed in
federal court. The couple has three daughters born in the United States.

There has been an earnest idealism on the part of the family about how the
system works in such cases. If Janet Reno and President Clinton were told of the
injustice, the family believed, they would stop it.

Al-Arian and others spent long days in Washington, D.C., visiting elected and
administrative officials and thrusting large envelopes of newspaper editorials
and documents into their hands. They went to find Hillary Clinton at an
appearance in Michigan. Members of Al-Najjar's east Tampa mosque and the
Hillsborough Organization for Progress and Equality wrangled a meeting with
Justice Department officials in April 1998.

Nothing changed.

Meanwhile, attorneys for Ahmed and Kiareldeen were wielding legal filings in
federal court and FOI requests to the FBI, ignoring the 1996 law that says an
immigrant must first exhaust his remedies in the immigration system before
asking the federal courts to intervene. The government, to head off a ruling
from a federal judge, released pieces of its evidence to throw the cases back to
the immigration judges. The immigrant at least got something to rebut.

In the end, that was enough for Ahmed and Kiareldeen to show the allegations
against them were unproven.

With the release of Ahmed and Kiareldeen, the focus of those opposed to secret
evidence is now on Mazen Al-Najjar.

A Philadelphia attorney, Joe Hohenstein, signed on this summer to represent the
Al-Najjars. David Cole, a constitutional law expert from Georgetown University
who has made major case law for immigrants battling secret evidence and who
worked on the Ahmed and Kiareldeen cases, has agreed to help. In November, the
ACLU of Florida announced it will be "directly involved in this effort."

"We've always been deeply troubled by Al-Najjar's incarceration," said legal
director Andrew Kayton in Miami.

Kayton notes that Al-Najjar's is the only case in which the immigration judge
failed to keep any record of the secret evidence given in chambers, leaving
nothing for an appeals judge to review.

"It's equally troubling that these types of proceedings are used against one
type of ethnic group," Kayton said. The silence and inaction by the Florida
legal community and legislators "plays to base prejudices," he said.

While a habeas filing would appear to promise quick action, one for Nasser Ahmed
was 2 years old and still pending when he was released. Al-Najjar's attorneys
believe that because he has a final deportation ruling from the Board of
Immigration Appeals, the federal court is free to act.

Supporters are optimistic. Buoyed by the government's losses in at least three
secret evidence cases this year and the tongue-lashings it got from judges, they
have faith that justice will come to Mazen Al-Najjar.

"I think in every religion, God will stand by the persecuted," said his wife,
Fedaa. "I think Mazen will be free."


LOAD-DATE: December 8, 1999

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DISTRIBUTION: CITY & STATE; METRO & STATE; TAMPA & STATE

GRAPHIC: COLOR PHOTO, JIM STEM; COLOR PHOTO; BLACK AND WHITE PHOTO, (2); Mazen
Al-Najjar shown in his jail cell (ran CITY & STATE, METRO & STATE); Mazen
Al-Najjar (ran TAMPA & STATE); Rep. David Bonior (ran CITY & STATE, METRO &
STATE); Fedaa Al-Najjar

                    Copyright 1999 Times Publishing Company


                              233 of 280 DOCUMENTS

                         St. Petersburg Times (Florida)

              January 04, 2000, Tuesday, 0 South Pinellas Edition

U.S. plan would have Cuban boy returned home

SOURCE: Compiled from Times Wires

SECTION: NATIONAL; Pg. 6A

LENGTH: 574 words

DATELINE: WASHINGTON



Anticipating a decision by the Immigration and Naturalization Service to send
6-year-old Elian Gonzalez home to Cuba, U.S. officials have asked the Cuban
government to help arrange for the boy's father to travel to Miami to pick him
up.

American authorities hope the appearance of the father, Juan Miguel Gonzalez,
and his clear desire to take custody of his son, will limit a legal and
emotional backlash from Florida's large Cuban-American community, the Washington
Post reported, citing a U.S. official whom it did not name. Elian has become a
cause celebre among militant exiles opposed to Cuba's Communist government who
have demanded that he be allowed to remain with relatives in this country.

The appeal to Cuba came after INS officials met for a second time with Gonzalez.
Cuba responded that it would take "under advisement" a U.S. request that it
facilitate an exit visa for the father, according to the U.S. official.

Under preliminary plans discussed in weekend consultations involving the INS,
the State Department and the Justice Department, Gonzalez would be issued an
emergency U.S. visa, flown to Miami and brought to the home of Miami relatives
where Elian is staying, the official said. Although the relatives could seek a
temporary restraining order in federal court against the INS decision, legal
custody of Elian would immediately revert to his father, who would be free to
leave the country with him.

Elian was found floating in an inner tube off Florida on Thanksgiving Day, one
of three survivors of a shipwreck in which 10 Cubans drowned, including his
mother. The boy was released into the custody of his paternal great-uncles and
aunts, Cubans who have lived in Miami since the early 1960s.

His parents were divorced, and the family in Cuba insists he was taken from the
country by his mother without his father's permission. Backed by Elian's two
sets of grandparents in Cuba - and by the Cuban government - the father demanded
that the child be returned. But the Miami relatives have refused to send him
home.

In Cuba on Monday, representatives of an influential American church
organization met with Gonzalez and promised to press the U.S. government to
return his son to Cuba.

"We need to help our president see that the issue is a moral one, a humanitarian
one," said the Rev. Joan Brown Campbell, outgoing general secretary of the
National Council of Churches. "We need to be concerned for a small boy rather
than politics."

Campbell met with Elian's father, four grandparents and great-grandmother in
Cardenas, Cuba.

"This is a very loving family," Campbell said. "We are more convinced than ever
that this child belongs with this family. We will work very hard to make sure
(Elian) comes back very soon."

PAMPHLET DROP CONDEMNED: Cuba accused the United States on Monday of tolerating
illegal acts against the island, singling out the New Year's Day scattering of
political pamphlets by a Vietnamese-American pilot.

An article in the communist workers daily, Trabajadores, was headlined: "Madman,
Unhinged, Drugged, or Vulgar Mercenary." It said the United States was a
"violator of international law, tolerant of crime, a liar without morals that
stimulates craziness and is incapable of controlling it."

Ly Tong scattered 50,000 pamphlets calling on Cubans to revolt against Castro.

U.S. officials questioned Tong after the flight from Miami but released him
without charges.


LOAD-DATE: January 4, 2000

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: BLACK AND WHITE PHOTO; The Rev. Joan Brown Campbell

TYPE: DIGEST

                    Copyright 2000 Times Publishing Company


                              234 of 280 DOCUMENTS

                         St. Petersburg Times (Florida)

             January 05, 2000, Wednesday, 0 South Pinellas Edition

Improve TB screening with care

SECTION: EDITORIAL; EDITORIALS; Pg. 12A

LENGTH: 428 words



Nearly eight years after the overall number of tuberculosis cases in the United
States began to decline steadily, public health experts once again are sounding
the alarm about the spread of this dangerous lung disease. With TB reportedly
running rampant in Latin America, Africa and Asia, health officials are urging
the government to improve tuberculosis screening at the borders and in cities
with large immigrant populations. That's good advice, but the government should
be careful about how it reacts to this call for more rigorous TB testing.

Canadian officials clearly went overboard when they outfitted border agents in
biohazard suits and ordered them to detain anyone of Tibetan origin who
attempted to enter the country by crossing the Peace Bridge north of Buffalo,
N.Y. Over five months, hundreds of Tibetans were stopped at the border, forced
to wear bright yellow surgical masks and left outside the Canadian immigration
office until they could be taken by taxi to a Niagara Falls doctor for TB
testing.

Of the 400 Tibetans processed last year, only eight were found to have TB,
prompting an outcry from refugee advocates and health officials who agreed the
policy was degrading and unnecessary. So far, the United States has taken a more
measured approach in trying to deal with this public health threat.

New York City, which is home to one of the most aggressive TB-control programs
in the country, runs radio advertisements in several languages that encourage
immigrants to be tested. The city also has hired health care workers to offer TB
tests in churches, English-language schools and community centers where
immigrants are known to congregate.

In Texas, where thousands of illegal immigrants, most of them Mexicans, are
placed in detention centers each year after trying to cross the border, X-Ray
machines have been installed to quickly identify and isolate anyone who might be
suffering from TB. Similar technology is on its way to Florida and California.

With people from all over the globe visiting and immigrating to the United
States, it makes sense to improve screening for TB, a disease that is highly
communicable and potentially fatal. The Centers for Disease Control and
Prevention and the American Medical Association agree that the key to
eliminating TB in the United States is to eradicate it in the foreign-born
population. The challenge for our government is to find a way to do so with a
decent regard for the rights of the millions of foreign-born visitors and
immigrants who enter the United States each year.


LOAD-DATE: January 5, 2000

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: EDITORIAL

                    Copyright 2000 Times Publishing Company


                              235 of 280 DOCUMENTS

                         St. Petersburg Times (Florida)

               January 30, 2000, Sunday, 0 South Pinellas Edition

Austrian far right out to limit immigrants

SOURCE: Compiled from Times Wires

SECTION: NATIONAL; Pg. 17A

LENGTH: 649 words

DATELINE: VIENNA, Austria; ISLAMABAD, Pakistan



Defying growing alarm among European and other foreign governments, Austria's
far-right Freedom Party moved closer to joining a coalition government Saturday
that the party's leader pledged would cut immigration almost to zero.

Joerg Haider, a charismatic politician who once praised Nazi Germany's "orderly
employment policy," has already won agreement with the conservative People's
Party to tighten visa controls, Haider said on state radio.

If the two parties form a governing coalition - a development expected as early
as this week - it will introduce a quota system "that is tantamount to a de
facto zero immigration," Haider said.

Austria would let in foreign workers mainly to help out during the busy tourist
season, he said. Once the seasonal workers had served their purpose, they would
have to leave Austria under the immigration policy Haider described.

Calling his immigration proposal an "objectively justified solution that is not
open to attack internationally," Haider warned in a separate interview: "Foreign
governments should not meddle in Austria's internal affairs."

Pakistan rejects label

as sponsor of terrorism

ISLAMABAD, Pakistan - Pakistan rejected as unwarranted an apparent warning from
the United States that it could be branded a sponsor of terrorism.

The foreign ministry said although the Pakistani government may be sympathetic
to a secessionist uprising in Indian-ruled Kashmir, it is firmly opposed to
terrorism.

On Thursday, the United States warned Pakistan that it could be listed as a
sponsor of terrorism - making it ineligible for virtually all U.S. aid - if it
gave direct support to Harkat-ul-Mujahedeen, a militant group that operates in
Kashmir and is headquartered in Pakistan.

Meanwhile Saturday, rockets fired from India slammed into the Pakistani village
of Daholo Wali, killing two people and wounding three others, said Shahid
Mahmood, deputy commissioner of the Sialkot region.

Elsewhere . . .

CHECHEN WAR: Russian forces advanced through snowy alleys and seized
shell-shattered high-rises from rebels in the Chechen capital, Grozny, but
Chechens said they were letting the Russians move in so they could attack from
behind. Meanwhile, Russian presidential aide Sergei Yastrzhembsky said 54 rebels
surrendered in northeast Grozny to forces led by pro-Moscow Chechen leader
Bislan Gantamirov. Speaking on Russia's ORT television, Yastrzhembsky called the
move a "psychological breakthrough." Many of the rebels were wounded.

EAST TIMOR TRIBUNAL? U.N. investigators have recommended that the world body
establish a human rights tribunal to prosecute those responsible for atrocities
in East Timor, the Associated Press reported. Their report, to be officially
released Monday, comes after the U.N. Commission of Inquiry visited East Timor
and Indonesia late last year to conduct preliminary investigations into
allegations of serious violations of fundamental human rights and international
humanitarian law.

GERMAN SCANDAL: Accountant Horst Weyrauch, a key figure in the Christian
Democrats' financial scandal, has given the party's Hesse state branch a
1,000-plus page report on secret party money, state Christian Democratic leaders
said. Hesse has become a focus in the scandal over a network of financial
schemes run by the Christian Democrats, the conservative party that led the
government from the early 1980s until 1998. The party's Hesse branch said it
would likely take a week to go through the report, and after that it would be
made public.

MIDEAST TALKS: Israeli Prime Minister Ehud Barak and Palestinian leader Yasser
Arafat will meet this week amid fading hopes for concluding the outline of a
peace agreement by their Feb. 13 deadline. The Barak-Arafat meeting will be held
Thursday or Friday at Erez, a border crossing between Israel and
Palestinian-held Gaza, the Associated Press reported.


LOAD-DATE: January 31, 2000

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: DIGEST

                    Copyright 2000 Times Publishing Company


                              236 of 280 DOCUMENTS

                         St. Petersburg Times (Florida)

              February 21, 2000, Monday, 0 South Pinellas Edition

Don't protect foreign criminals

SECTION: EDITORIAL; EDITORIALS; Pg. 10A

LENGTH: 336 words



The United States is a safe haven for thousands of ethnic cleansers, death squad
leaders and other political killers who have fled prosecution for their crimes
against humanity in other countries. As many as 10,000 human rights abusers and
their collaborators now live in this country, many of whom slipped in undetected
because the government has not made identifying, locating and prosecuting these
criminals a high priority.

U.S. Rep. Mark Foley, R-West Palm Beach, has introduced legislation that would
force the federal government to stop giving international murderers and thugs
refuge within our borders. The Anti-Atrocity Alien Deportation Act already
passed in the Senate with strong bipartisan support. It now is being considered
in the House, where lawmakers of both parties should embrace it.

The bill would expand the duties of the Office of Special Investigations, a
Justice Department agency that now investigates individuals who took part in
Nazi-sponsored acts of persecution before and during World War II. The measure
would direct the office to take steps to prosecute or deport individuals who
participated in acts of torture, genocide or other crimes against humanity
abroad. It also would require the office to make a greater effort to tighten the
borders to prevent international criminals from gaining entry to the United
States in the first place.

  Since Congress passed its 1996 Immigration Reform Act, the government has
wasted valuable time and resources detaining and deporting thousands of
immigrants who committed non-violent crimes and other petty offenses while
living in this country. To its shame, the government hasn't pursued dangerous
international fugitives with nearly as much vigor. Foley's bill would force the
United States to live up to its international obligations, codified in several
treaties, to prosecute people who have committed crimes against humanity. The
United States, of all places, should not be a refuge for foreign thugs and
murderers.


LOAD-DATE: March 6, 2000

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: EDITORIAL

                    Copyright 2000 Times Publishing Company


                              237 of 280 DOCUMENTS

                         St. Petersburg Times (Florida)

              February 29, 2000, Tuesday, 0 South Pinellas Edition

FBI says five held on secret evidence

BYLINE: SUSAN ASCHOFF

SECTION: NATIONAL; Pg. 1A

LENGTH: 1155 words



Groups fighting to free those detained count eight in jail and fear there may be
others.

For years, the U.S. government has used secret evidence to jail immigrants
considered dangerous friends of terrorists. For years, the government has
declined to say how many are behind bars.

Immigrant advocates asked for a count, filing Freedom of Information requests
with the Immigration and Naturalization Service. They want to ensure that no
incarcerated person is without legal help.

U.S. senators asked how many. They wrote to the Justice Department wanting to
know how frequently secret evidence is used.

Then, at a House subcommittee hearing this month on legislation to ban the use
of secret evidence as unconstitutional, FBI general counsel Larry Parkinson gave
a number.

Five.

Groups fighting to free those detained count eight men in jail, and worry there
are others no one has heard about.

Rep. Lamar Smith of Texas, subcommittee chairman, touted the low number as proof
the system is not abusive.

INS, when asked about discrepancies, said the government's numbers are right and
any others are wrong.

INS spokesman Russell Bergeron said: "We don't really track cases based on
whether secret evidence is involved. For this hearing, we researched that
figure" and came up with five.

Even one case, opponents say, is too many.

"The INS has been doing this (secret evidence) for years but wasn't publicizing
it," said Kit Gage, coordinator of the National Coalition to Protect Political
Freedom. The coalition is a collection of ethnic, religious and political groups
opposed to the practice.

"It's a travesty that it's happening at all."

The announced count comes as increasing pressure is applied to the INS, FBI and
Justice Department to stop detaining immigrants as national security threats
while denying them proof. More than 65 U.S. representatives have signed on as
sponsors of a bill to ban secret evidence. More than 700 people attended a
meeting in opposition Feb. 16 in Washington, D.C.

Immigrants in secret evidence cases are accused of ties to terrorists. They
spend years in jail but no criminal charges are filed. The government says the
men attend subversive political rallies, raise funds for violent extremist
groups or are acquainted with convicted terrorists. The evidence of such ties is
shown only to the immigration judge, and not shared with the immigrant or his
attorneys.

The use of secret evidence, opponents say, denies the men their constitutional
right to confront their accusers. In cases that have ended up in federal court,
federal judges agreed.

Critics are also troubled that almost all of those detained are Arab or Muslim.

They include Mazen Al-Najjar, a former University of South Florida teacher whose
lengthy detention inspired the bill introduced in Congress. A Palestinian who
has lived in the United States since the early 1980s, Al-Najjar was arrested on
a visa violation. He has been detained almost three years in a Bradenton jail on
secret evidence accusing him of ties to the Palestinian Islamic Jihad.

The INS continues to decline to provide a list of detainees, citing privacy
laws.

At the INS' request, the St. Petersburg Times gave the agency its list of eight
immigrants detained in secret evidence cases, and asked for confirmation.
Bergeron said the list is incorrect. Three Iranians from California are not
secret evidence cases and should not be included, he said.

The Times' list was compiled from court documents, lawyers, media reports and
advocacy groups tracking the cases. Last year the Times filed a Freedom of
Information request with INS for names, dates and cities of all cases involving
secret evidence against immigrants. That request is pending.

"They're playing a counting game - the number can be anything they want it to
be," said Jay Fredman of Washington, D.C., one of the immigration lawyers
representing the Iranians.

In the case of his clients, he said, a Joint Terrorism Task Force labeled them
terrorists and threats to national security based upon undisclosed evidence of
ties to the Mujahedin-e Khalq, a group on the State Department's list of
terrorist organizations.

The INS in the past has provided only estimates of the number of secret evidence
cases.

In a February 1998 letter written by a former INS counsel to the American Civil
Liberties Union, INS said the figure was about 50 secret evidence cases over the
previous five years. INS and the Justice Department have put the number at 12
cases a year.

At the hearing before the House Immigration and Claims Subcommittee on Feb. 10,
the FBI's Parkinson said his figure shows the FBI and INS employ secret evidence
responsibly.

"It is important to note . . . that while the use of classified information has
garnered much media attention, it is in fact quite rare" in the 300,000 total
pending immigration cases, he said.

The FBI and INS must classify evidence to protect federal agents and
confidential informants to deter terrorist attacks in the United States, he
said.

The American Jewish Committee, in a written statement submitted at the hearing,
objected to the proposed legislation, called the Secret Evidence Repeal Act,
because it "fails to draw the appropriate balance between due process concerns
and national security interests.

"It's a hatchet taken to a set of serious and difficult issues that require,
instead, a scalpel," president Bruce Ramer said.

Gage, of the national coalition, said the government's
"we'll-just-use-it-a-little" promise makes innocent people pay.

Two immigrants detained for years on secret evidence were released last fall
after immigration and appeals judges rejected the government's secret evidence
as hearsay in their separate cases.

The Justice Department said the outcomes prove the system works.

But the defendants spent years in jail before judges ruled they had done nothing
wrong.

In addition to the five people detained, Parkinson also testified there are
seven cases involving secret evidence in which the immigrants are not in jail.
That number has not been verified by advocates because the government won't
release names. It is nonetheless damaging to the government's protestations that
these people are dangerous, said David Cole, a Georgetown University law
professor who also testified before the subcommittee.

"It goes against the government's own arguments," said Cole, who has represented
immigrants in secret evidence cases. "If these people are truly a threat, then
they should all be detained."

Cole is one of a national team of lawyers working to free Mazen Al-Najjar. The
Tampa resident's case is before a federal judge in Miami, and could go to the
Supreme Court on constitutional grounds. Cole says that in 12 of the 13 cases he
has been involved with, the immigrant prevailed. But the cost has been years in
jail, destroyed reputations and devastated families.


LOAD-DATE: February 29, 2000

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                    Copyright 2000 Times Publishing Company


                              238 of 280 DOCUMENTS

                         St. Petersburg Times (Florida)

              February 29, 2000, Tuesday, 0 South Pinellas Edition

The eight immigrants

BYLINE: SUSAN ASCHOFF

SECTION: NATIONAL; Pg. 10A

LENGTH: 816 words



There are eight immigrants known to be detained due to secret evidence,
according to court hearings, their attorneys and the National Coalition to
Protect Political Freedom. They are:

Mazen Al-Najjar

Tampa

Held 2 years, 9 months

The  42-year-old Palestinian was arrested in Tampa on an expired visa after
living in the United States for 16 years. The government says he is a threat
because of his "association" with the Palestinian Islamic Jihad.

He and his brother-in-law, Sami Al-Arian, a University of South Florida computer
engineering professor, founded a think tank in Tampa in the early 1990s. Federal
agents say the now-defunct World and Islam Studies Enterprise, or WISE, was a
front for bringing Middle East terrorists into the country, including Ramadan
Abdullah Shallah. Shallah, a one-time USF teacher and WISE employee, assumed
leadership of the Palestinian Islamic Jihad in 1995.

Al-Najjar and his wife, Fedaa, 35, have three daughters who are U.S. citizens.
Both have been ordered deported and are seeking relief in federal courts. A
federal judge in Miami also has been asked to free Al-Najjar. A decision could
come as early as March.

Anwar Haddam

Virginia

Held 3 years, 2 months

The member of the Algerian Parliament and the Islamic Salvation Front political
party came to the United States in 1992 after he and other officials were ousted
in a military coup in 1990. He has been sentenced to death, in absentia, in
Algeria. The 45-year-old physics professor is not accused by the U.S. government
of terrorism but as a "persecutor" who uses his speech to incite others. He was
arrested after his request for asylum was denied. An immigration appeals panel
later found Haddam eligible for asylum but sent his case back to an immigration
judge to review the secret evidence.

Haddam's wife, Nassima, a doctor, has been granted asylum. The couple have four
children.

Ali Yasin Mohammed Karim

Mohammed Karim

California

Held 3 years

Five of the six men known as the Iraqi 6 in press coverage of their case struck
a deal with the U.S. government to get out of jail after years in detention on
secret evidence. One refused. Dr. Ali Yasim Mohammed Karim (and his brother
Mohammed Karim) go back to immigration court in April to fight for asylum. Ali
Karim's attorneys now have hundreds of pages of once-classified evidence used to
accuse the Iraqis as spies. The pages were released after protests by U.S.
senators and one of the immigrants' attorneys, former CIA Director James
Woolsey. Some of the evidence remains classified.

FBI agents and an informant have been subpoenaed to appear at the Kurdish
doctor's hearing.

The five Iraqis who dropped their plea for asylum were reunited with their
families and are living in the United States under FBI surveillance. They must
leave the country when the State Department finds another country that will take
them.

Harpal Singh

California

Held 2 years, 3 months

A political activist from India and a leader in the movement for a separate
state for Sikhs, Harpal Singh came to the United States in 1993 after being
arrested and tortured by the Indian government. The 42-year-old lawyer was
arrested in the United States in November 1997 when federal agents said he and
his wife, Rajvinder Kaur, 38, were threats. An immigration judge found the
government's secret evidence lacking and ordered Singh's deportation withheld
and granted Kaur asylum. The INS appealed.

The couple's 13-year-old daughter was left behind in India and cannot join her
parents unless their cases are resolved. A 5-year-old son was born in the United
States. Kaur is the first woman known to be involved in a secret evidence case.
She has not been detained. Her attorneys say she is named only because she took
phone messages for her husband.

Mohammed Mirmehdi

Meran Najad

Yousef Hamidi

California

Held 11 months

In a federal investigation known as Operation Eastern Approach, agents in the
Los Angeles area last March arrested 29 immigrants for manufacturing and using
phony documents, including passports to smuggle people into the country. Those
arrested included eight Iranians the U.S. attorney's office labeled
"terrorists." They are a threat to national security because of ties to the
Mujahedin-e Khalq, or MEK, an Iranian group on the State Department's list of
terrorist organizations, the government said. The men say they support democracy
in Iran. Last year, 220 members of Congress called for MEK's removal from the
list, calling it a legitimate resistance group.

Since government attorneys have not yet submitted classified evidence, the INS
says these are not secret evidence cases. The Iranians' attorneys disagree: The
government alleged the men were threats without having to show proof.

Four of the men got bail and one left the country. Mirmehdi, Najad and Hamidi
are detained pending a hearing.


LOAD-DATE: February 29, 2000

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: COLOR PHOTO, (2); Mazen Al-Najjar; Ali Yasin Mohammed Karim

                    Copyright 2000 Times Publishing Company


                              239 of 280 DOCUMENTS

                         St. Petersburg Times (Florida)

                 March 09, 2000, Thursday, 2 Late Tampa Edition

After years and miles apart, family reunites

BYLINE: TIM GRANT

SECTION: TAMPA & STATE; Pg. 1B

LENGTH: 768 words

DATELINE: TAMPA



A Carrollwood man spent 2 1/2 years pleading with the INS to let his wife and
two young sons return from Thailand.

A Thai family experienced an emotional reunion Wednesday, after a separation
they thought would be only a few weeks ended up lasting more than two years.

During the separation, Amornrat Chulikavit and her young sons lived in her
native Bangkok, Thailand, hoping to get back to her husband in Carrollwood.

It took so long, the family forgot most of the English they had learned in their
years living in the United States.

"I'm speechless. It's so nice to be here," Mrs. Chulikavit, 33, said as elated
friends and family members greeted her at Tampa International Airport. The
children, ages 5 and 7, screamed as they raced to their father's outstretched
arms.

"I'm glad they are here so we can start on with our life and our family," said
Narong "Tom" Chulikavit, a Carrollwood restaurant owner. "My wife and my kids,
they are all here in the same house and the same dinner table."

Chulikavit spent the past 2 1/2 years pleading with officials at the Immigration
and Naturalization Service to let his wife back into the country.

The family's ordeal began Sept. 25, 1997, two days before an immigration
deadline that required all illegal aliens to leave the country and apply for
legal status in their native countries.

The  Chulikavits' sons, 7-year-old Tai and 5-year-old Toon, are U.S citizens by
birth. They could have remained here. But Mrs. Chulikavit's student visa had
expired eight years before, and Chulikavit feared that if his wife were
discovered here after the deadline, she would be banned from re-entering the
United States  for 10 years.

Taking no chances, Chulikavit sent his wife and two sons to Bangkok to avoid any
problems with immigration officials. He figured she would apply for a visa and
be back home in a matter of weeks.

But as it turned out, they never really had to leave in the first place. Four
days after they boarded the plane, Congress changed the law. Thousands of
illegal immigrants who would have been affected by the deadline were allowed to
stay here without penalty. No one would face deportation or be banned from
re-entry for 10 years.

As long as they paid a $ 1,000 fine, illegal immigrants who had been ordered to
leave could file here for legal status rather than at U.S. consulates abroad.

Chulikavit, 47, owns Circles Cafe, an upscale Italian restaurant in Carrollwood.
Many customers who were outraged by his plight organized a petition drive to
help speed the process -  to no avail.

"I feel it is a crying shame that government bureaucracy and inefficiency has
kept this family apart for more than two years," said Carrollwood resident John
Longmore, an oral surgeon who led the petition drive.

"We had more than 100 signatures and numerous letters written to congressmen and
senators. Unfortunately everything we did didn't help. It failed to speed up the
process for such a deserving family."

Chulikavit had been living in the United States for 14 years when he married in
1991. Mrs. Chulikavit came to the United States that year on a student visa and
studied English as a second language at the University of South Florida.

But shortly after she arrived here, she became pregnant and dropped out of
school. Her visa expired and she became an illegal alien.

In 1995, after the couple had two children, Chulikavit, who was then a resident
alien, applied for his wife to get a green card, which allows immigrants to live
and work in the United States. But the INS was two years behind in processing
applications.

Before she could get her green card, the deportation deadline approached. He
said five lawyers advised him to comply with the law, which meant sending his
wife to Bangkok to apply for a visa. Since the children were so young, the
couple decided they would be better off with their mother while she waited to
return to the United States.

Nobody knew  Congress would change the law four days after she left with her
children, or that it would take so long to re-enter the country.

As he fought to get his family back,  Chulikavit had been told it might take
several years to process his wife's green card because immigration is so
backlogged.

To speed the process,  Chulikavit applied in 1997 for U.S. citizenship. Becoming
a citizen would make his wife eligible for a green card. But there is a two-year
backlog on citizenship applications in Tampa, and  Chulikavit did not become a
citizen until June 1999.

His citizenship led to the visa that brought his family together Wednesday.


LOAD-DATE: March 9, 2000

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DISTRIBUTION: TAMPA & STATE; CITY & STATE; METRO & STATE

GRAPHIC: COLOR PHOTO, THOMAS M. GOETHE; BLACK AND WHITE PHOTO, THOMAS M. GOETHE;
BLACK AND WHITE PHOTO; Narong Chulikavit greets his sons Tai and Toon at Tampa
International after their arrival Wednesday from Thailand. (ran TAMPA & STATE);
Narong Chulikavit greets his sons Tai and Toon at Tampa International after
their arrival Wednesday from Thailand. (ran CITY & STATE, METRO & STATE);
Amornrat Chulikavit

                    Copyright 2000 Times Publishing Company


                              240 of 280 DOCUMENTS

                         St. Petersburg Times (Florida)

                March 10, 2000, Friday, 0 South Pinellas Edition

Repeal INS computer-check law

SECTION: EDITORIAL; EDITORIALS; Pg. 16A

LENGTH: 323 words



Before Congress breaks for its spring recess, it should correct a provision in
the 1996 Immigration and Naturalization Act that could cause big problems at
hundreds of U.S. border crossings.

The provision, known as Section 110, was inserted in conference committee and
became law without any public debate. It requires the Immigration and
Naturalization Service to install a massive computer system linking 300 U.S.
border crossings by March 30, 2001, to log the entry and exit of visitors from
Canada and Mexico.

 Congress apparently thought an automated system would help speed border checks,
while making it easier for INS agents to detect people trying to enter the
United States illegally. But in their zeal to crack down on illegal immigration,
lawmakers never bothered to read the fine print before rocketing the bill over
to the president.

Because Section 110 requires border agents to perform a computer check in
addition to their standard questioning when motorists enter and exit the United
States, it will bring traffic at our already clogged border crossings to a
crawl. With more than 430-million people crossing those U.S. borders each year,
the bottlenecks could seriously harm trade and tourism - and create political
tensions - between the United States and its two neighbors.

Legislation introduced by U.S. Sen. Spencer Abraham, R-Mich., would repeal
Section 110 and require the government to perform a feasibility study to measure
the potential costs and benefits of a computerized entry-exit system. If
Congress fails to approve Abraham's changes, the INS will be put in a difficult
financial bind, because Congress and the president approved Section 110 without
providing the agency with enough funds to build the facilities, develop the
technology or hire the personnel necessary to get a large-scale computer system
up and running in the first place. Section 110 is broke, and it needs fixing.


LOAD-DATE: March 10, 2000

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: EDITORIAL

                    Copyright 2000 Times Publishing Company


                              241 of 280 DOCUMENTS

                         St. Petersburg Times (Florida)

                             March 12, 2000, Sunday

SECTION: NORTH OF TAMPA; THE WEEK IN REVIEW; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 655 words



CIRCLES FAMILY REUNITED: A Carrollwood family experienced an emotional reunion
Wednesday, after a separation they thought would be only a few weeks ended up
lasting more than two years. During the separation, Amornrat Chulikavit and her
young sons lived in her native Bangkok, Thailand, hoping to get back to her
husband in Carrollwood. It took so long, the family forgot most of their
English.

"I'm speechless. It's so nice to be here," Mrs. Chulikavit, 33, said as elated
friends and family members greeted her at Tampa International Airport. The
children, ages 5 and 7, screamed as they raced to their father's outstretched
arms.

"I'm glad they are here so we can start on with our life and our family," said
Narong "Tom" Chulikavit, owner of the Carrollwood-based Circles restaurants.

The family's ordeal began Sept. 25, 1997, two days before a U.S. immigration
deadline that required all illegal aliens - Mrs. Chulikavit's student visa had
expired - to leave the country and apply for legal immigration status from their
native countries. Chulikavit then spent 2 1/2 years pleading with officials at
the Immigration and Naturalization Service to let his wife back into the
country. Seven-year-old Tai and 5-year-old Toon are U.S citizens by birth and
could have remained here. But Chulikavit feared that if his wife were discovered
here after the deadline, she would be banned from the United States for 10
years.

Taking no chances, Chulikavit, then a resident alien, sent his wife and two sons
to Bangkok. He did not know that four days later, Congress would change the law,
making it possible for her to stay here without penalty.

FATAL STABBING AT WESTCHASE HOME SITE: A construction worker was charged with
fatally stabbing a co-worker at a Westchase job site after a dispute over
building supplies, officials said. Winston Smith, a 42-year-old native of
Jamaica, turned himself in and was charged with second-degree murder. Officials
said Smith killed his co-worker, Ronald Taylor, 41, of Tarpon Springs, during a
fight Tuesday morning. The two men were working with a Westfield Homes crew
building a house in the Vineyard section of Westchase.

The fight started about 11 a.m., Hillsborough sheriff's spokesman Rod Reder
said. The two men were trading blows when a supervisor broke up the fight and
ordered one of them to leave. Smith left in his White Geo Prism. Taylor stayed.

Moments later, Taylor collapsed, apparently not knowing right away that he had
been stabbed.

COMMISSIONERS KILL ROAD PLAN: The Hillsborough County Commission killed a $
1-billion transportation plan Wednesday that it has studied for months, debated
for hours and amended more times than can be remembered.

The 4-3 vote ended the debate over the transportation plan proposed by a citizen
panel of 99 people, which called for a 5-cent increase in the gas tax in the
county, higher impact fees on new homes and a referendum on a new half-cent
sales tax.

  The commission also voted down a proposal to pay for new roads, buses and
sidewalks by redistributing the county's $ 2.2-billion budget and by asking the
School Board to use $ 57-million of its money for transportation.

Commissioners formed the Committee of 99 in July to come up with solutions to
the county's transportation problems. But they were surprised five months later
when the committee presented a plan that called for raising $ 1-billion in new
taxes over 10 years.

ATTEMPTED RAPE IN PLANTATION DIDN'T HAPPEN: The woman who told authorities she
was attacked in her Plantation home by a masked intruder last week admitted
Monday she made up her story, officials said. Hillsborough sheriff's deputies
charged 36-year-old Cheryl Keene of 4405 Shadberry Drive with filing a false
police report, a misdemeanor, said spokeswoman Debbie Carter.

Keene later acknowledged, "I lied about what happened. I need psychiatric help,
and I'm going to get it."


LOAD-DATE: March 13, 2000

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DISTRIBUTION: NORTH OF TAMPA

TYPE: DIGEST

                    Copyright 2000 Times Publishing Company


                              242 of 280 DOCUMENTS

                         St. Petersburg Times (Florida)

                March 24, 2000, Friday, 0 South Pinellas Edition

Formula recall could affect program

SOURCE: Compiled from Wire Reports

SECTION: CITY & STATE; BRIEFLY; Pg. 7B

LENGTH: 570 words

DATELINE: TALLAHASSEE; PENSACOLA; MIAMI; PANAMA CITY; NAPLES



A nationwide recall of Nestle Carnation baby formula concentrate could affect up
to 90,000 Florida infants who are clients of Florida's Women, Infant and
Children program.

John Harrison, WIC operations manager for the Florida Department of Health, said
Thursday there have been no major problems and no children became ill after
using Carnation Good Start and Carnation Alsoy.

Nestle's concentrate, powder and ready-to-drink infant formulas are the primary
ones offered through Florida's supplemental food program, which has nearly
300,000 clients.

Ex-employee convicted in slaying

PENSACOLA - A former Popeyes employee was convicted Thursday of slashing an
assistant manager more than 60 times with a box cutter before tossing the tiny
woman's body, stunted by a birth defect, into the restaurant's freezer.

Jurors then recommended, by an 11-1 vote, that Timothy Hurst, 21, be sentenced
to death for the robbery-murder of Cynthia Harrison, 28, formerly of River
Ridge, La., on May 2, 1998.

Circuit Judge Joseph Tarbuck set sentencing for April 26.Critics: Immigrants'
deadline unfair

MIAMI - Critics of legislation meant to help immigrants say two fairness acts
are anything but fair and an application deadline next week could be impossible
for many to meet.

Immigration advocates filled an Immigration and Naturalization Service news
conference Thursday and waved signs complaining about delays in publishing the
final version of regulations aimed at allowing Haitians, Cubans and Nicaraguans
legal residency.

The INS is publishing regulations today for the Nicaraguan and Central American
Relief Act, which also applies to Cubans, and the Haitian Refugee Immigration
Fairness Act, giving immigrants only a week to apply for benefits Congress
approved years earlier.

Coach charged with girl's rape

PANAMA CITY - A former Little League baseball coach charged last year with the
sexual battery of a 9-year-old baseball player has been arrested again on new
charges, including rape, involving a young girl.

Billy Joe Palmer, 39, was being held Thursday at the Bay County Jail in lieu of
bonds totaling $ 75,000 after his arrest on new charges of sexual battery on a
child, performing a lewd and lascivious act on a child younger than 12 and false
imprisonment.

The first arrest came Nov. 4 after the boy told investigators that Palmer
forcibly sodomized him during a sleepover at Palmer's Panama City house,
according to a police report. Palmer had been free on bond for that charge when
he was arrested again Wednesday.

Judge allows Shapiro to testify

NAPLES - F. Lee Bailey lost a round Thursday in a case that could lead to his
disbarment, when a judge refused to ban the testimony of colleague Robert
Shapiro in Bailey's May 30 misconduct trial.

Bailey took the ruling in stride, saying it means his attorneys then will have
to question Shapiro in California.

The Florida Bar has accused Bailey of violating ethics rules in his handling of
money belonging to millionaire drug smuggler Claude DuBoc, whom Bailey and
Shapiro jointly represented several years ago.

The Bar says Bailey sold DuBoc's stock and appropriated the money for his
personal use.

Federal prosecutors maintained the money was dirty money, from criminal
activity, and thus forfeited to the government, and that Bailey needed - but
failed to get - permission from a judge to touch the funds.

- From wire reports.


LOAD-DATE: March 24, 2000

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: DIGEST

                    Copyright 2000 Times Publishing Company


                              243 of 280 DOCUMENTS

                         St. Petersburg Times (Florida)

               April 01, 2000, Saturday, 0 South Pinellas Edition

Woman sentenced for role in getting false papers

SECTION: CITY & STATE; BRIEFLY; Pg. 9B

LENGTH: 112 words

DATELINE: TAMPA



Grazyna Nowak, a 39-year-old St. Pete Beach woman, was sentenced in federal
court Friday to six months in a halfway house after admitting she helped Eastern
European immigrants obtain false papers to work at local resort hotels. Nowak
also must serve three years of probation. In her plea agreement, Nowak admitted
helping more than 100 aliens apply for fraudulent Social Security numbers. When
she was arrested in 1998, Nowak was working at a St. Pete Beach travel agency.
While there, according to prosecutors, she provided translators and altered INS
documents to help aliens get jobs. As a condition of her probation, Nowak can't
work for a travel agent.


LOAD-DATE: April 1, 2000

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DISTRIBUTION: CITY & STATE; TAMPA & STATE

TYPE: DIGEST

                    Copyright 2000 Times Publishing Company


                              244 of 280 DOCUMENTS

                         St. Petersburg Times (Florida)

                 May 01, 2000, Monday, 0 South Pinellas Edition

Lawmakers fight secret evidence rules

BYLINE: SUSAN ASCHOFF

SECTION: CITY & STATE; Pg. 5B

LENGTH: 367 words

DATELINE: TAMPA



A bill to ban the use of secret evidence against immigrants, including a Tampa
man, will get a hearing before the U.S. House Judiciary Committee perhaps as
early as this month, a sponsoring California congressman said this weekend in
Tampa.

Jailing Mazen Al-Najjar and other immigrants accused of having ties to
terrorists without revealing proof could end immediately if the administration
would simply say stop, said U.S. Rep. Tom Campbell, who called the practice an
"atrocity."

"The person who can free Mazen tomorrow is Bill Clinton. President Clinton can
say: "Enough,' " he said.

Campbell, a Republican running for the Senate, introduced HR 2121 a year ago
with House Minority Whip David Bonior of Michigan. On Sunday, Campbell visited
the man whose three-year detention on secret evidence inspired the legislation.

Al-Najjar, a former teacher at the University of South Florida, is accused of
ties to the Palestinian Islamic Jihad. He has been ordered deported on an
expired student visa but denied bail while he appeals because he is a threat to
national security, the government says.

About two dozen immigrants across the country are involved in cases involving
secret evidence. Almost all are Arab or Muslim.

"Americans tend to make stereotypical assumptions," said Campbell, whose Silicon
Valley district includes a large Arab-American and Muslim population.

More than 85 members of the House have signed on as sponsors for the
legislation, and Campbell said Judiciary Committee chairman Henry Hyde has
promised a hearing. Bonior, meanwhile, has met several times with Clinton and
Attorney General Janet Reno on the issue.

Al-Najjar, arrested in 1997, lost every round in immigration court. On April 18,
in his first appearance in federal court, he asked U.S. District Judge Joan A.
Lenard in Miami to free him on constitutional grounds. A ruling is expected
soon.

Federal agents allege a USF-affiliated think tank where Al-Najjar worked in the
early 1990s was a front for raising funds for Middle East terrorists. An
employee of the think tank, Ramadan Abdullah Shallah, became head of the
Palestinian Islamic Jihad a few months after leaving Tampa in fall 1995.


LOAD-DATE: May 2, 2000

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DISTRIBUTION: CITY & STATE; METRO & STATE; TAMPA & STATE

GRAPHIC: BLACK AND WHITE PHOTO; Mazen Al-Najjar (ran Tampa & State)

                    Copyright 2000 Times Publishing Company


                              245 of 280 DOCUMENTS

                         St. Petersburg Times (Florida)

               May 10, 2000, Wednesday, 0 South Pinellas Edition

Shackles are tightened on Al-Najjar

BYLINE: SUSAN ASCHOFF

SECTION: CITY & STATE; Pg. 1B

LENGTH: 653 words



A Tampa man jailed three years for alleged ties to terrorists was moved to
maximum-security this week after visits from the American Civil Liberties Union
and a U.S. congressman.

Mazen Al-Najjar, who has been held in a Bradenton jail since 1997, was moved to
a high-security area for criminal immigrants, with tighter restrictions on
movement and privileges.

"He is a high-profile inmate, and we decided we need him in a more secure area,"

 said David Bristow of the Manatee County Sheriff's Office, which operates the
facility for the Immigration and Naturalization Service.

Al-Najjar has been held at the INS facility in Bradenton since his arrest on May
19, 1997. No criminal charges have been filed.

He is ordered deported on an expired visa and has been denied bail while he
appeals based on secret government evidence that he is a threat to national
security.

Al-Najjar has been moved several times in the past because of overcrowding, but
in those cases the conditions of his detention did not change.

One of Al-Najjar's high-profile visitors said he found the news disturbing.

"We're very concerned about the timing. It comes two days after he met with the
president of the ACLU," said Greg Nojeim, ACLU's legislative counsel in
Washington, D.C. "We will be looking into the matter to determine whether the
move could have been an effort to retaliate against him."

Al-Najjar's legal status has not changed in the three years he has been
detained.

What has changed is the national attention he attracts.

On Saturday, Al-Najjar was visited in jail by Nojeim, ACLU president Nadine
Strossen and Michigan ACLU legal director Wendy Wagenheim. A week earlier, U.S.
Rep. Tom Campbell of California came to see him.

House Minority Whip David Bonior of Michigan has visited twice. Last week,
Bonior learned that his request for monthly contact visits for Al-Najjar had
been approved by Attorney General Janet Reno. It was more than a year ago that
Al-Najjar last saw his daughters without a glass window between them.

Inspired by Al-Najjar's case, Bonior and Campbell introduced legislation to ban
the use of secret evidence. The bill has since signed on more than 85 sponsors
and is scheduled for a full hearing before the House Judiciary Committee on May
23.

Al-Najjar said he does not know why the jail would punish him now.

"It's a real shock. I didn't do anything," Al-Najjar said by phone Monday night.
"The change makes me very much alarmed."

Jail administrators have called him a model prisoner. He mended jail uniforms
and assisted at the medical clinic.

Al-Najjar said the profile of those fighting to free him may have prompted
someone in the government to try and tip the scales the other way.

"Maybe they thought, "If you think you have some supporters, we can settle this
account in a way you don't like,' " he said.

His new quarters consist of four single cells above and four below, opening onto
a small communal area with tables and a television, he said. Inmates are
permitted to leave the area twice a day to make phone calls and get coffee or
sodas. Previously, Al-Najjar could place calls throughout the day. He could
leave the communal area for a quieter hallway in which to spread his prayer rug.

A Palestinian refugee and Muslim who has lived in the United States almost 20
years, Al-Najjar worked at a think tank in Tampa in the early 1990s.

The government says it was a front for fundraising for the Palestinian Islamic
Jihad, a terrorist organization that has admitted to bombing attacks to derail
the Palestinian-Israeli peace talks.

Neither Al-Najjar nor his attorneys have seen the government's classified proof.

"The whole situation, to be deprived of due process, is so outrageous from its
inception," said the ACLU's Strossen after her visit. "The more people who know
about it, the more Americans' basic sense of fairness will come forward."


LOAD-DATE: May 10, 2000

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DISTRIBUTION: CITY & STATE; METRO & STATE; TAMPA & STATE

GRAPHIC: BLACK AND WHITE PHOTO, (2); Mazen Al-Najjar, (ran CITY & STATE, METRO &
STATE); Mazen Al-Najjar, (ran TAMPA & STATE)

                    Copyright 2000 Times Publishing Company


                              246 of 280 DOCUMENTS

                         St. Petersburg Times (Florida)

                May 18, 2000, Thursday, 0 South Pinellas Edition

Jailed Algerian got asylum, then lost it

BYLINE: SUSAN ASCHOFF

SECTION: NATIONAL; Pg. 5A

LENGTH: 721 words



Anwar Haddam, jailed on secret evidence, is instead transferred to another INS
facility.

An Algerian politician jailed three years on secret evidence by the U.S.
government received asylum, then lost it, in the latest twist in his convoluted
bid to remain here.

Instead of being released, Anwar Haddam was transferred Friday to another
Immigration and Naturalization Service facility in Virginia almost two hours
farther from his family and attorney.

The grant of asylum was a mistake, the INS said.

The notice came in a letter received May 11 by Haddam's wife, Nassima Haddam.
She received political asylum in November and could thus apply for her husband.
But his case is already pending before the Board of Immigration Appeals. He is
obviously not eligible for relief through his wife, said INS spokesman Russell
Bergeron.

A day after the letter arrived, INS transported Haddam to another jail and
rescinded the asylum.

When asked about the timing of the jail transfer, Bergeron said Haddam was moved
to the Pamunkey Regional Jail in Hanover, Va., at the request of local jail
officials. Haddam's attorney, Malea Kiblan, thinks it was done to curtail her
access had she chosen to act upon the asylum letter and seek Haddam's immediate
release.

Haddam, frustrated by the delays, began a hunger strike May 1.

"He's reached his limit," said Kiblan. "He's very depressed."

The 45-year-old nuclear physicist and University of Algiers professor is one of
about two dozen immigrants in the United States involved in secret evidence
cases. They include a former University of South Florida teacher, Mazen
Al-Najjar, who on Friday marks three years in INS detention.

Critics say the U.S. government is targeting Arabs and Muslims in violation of
their constitutional rights to due process and free speech. Those held are
accused of having ties to terrorists.

Haddam is accused as a persecutor. The U.S. government says he incites others to
violate human rights in Algeria as an opponent of the Algerian government.

He is jailed, counter his family and supporters, because the government wants to
silence him.

"My husband is a political prisoner," said Mrs. Haddam, a physician. "It is
about freedom of speech."

Haddam is a member of the Islamic Salvation Front, or FIS, and was elected to
the Algerian parliament in December 1991. In 1992, the military government
voided the elections. Haddam and his family came to the United States and asked
for political asylum. Haddam continued to work on Algerian political issues. INS
denied his asylum request in October 1996. He was arrested Dec. 6, 1996.

Haddam says he opposes violence in Algeria.

The FIS has been linked by opponents to the Armed Islamic Group, or GIA. The GIA
is described as one of the most extreme factions in Algeria's civil war and is
on the State Department's list of designated terrorist organizations.

A few days after his arrest, Haddam and the FIS were sued for human rights
violations in Algeria by a group of more than 1,500 plaintiffs represented by
the Center for Constitutional Rights in New York.

The FIS counters that other factions are guilty of terrorism but that the U.S.
government has sided with the ruling military.

Haddam's fate is currently before the Board of Immigration Appeals, where it was
sent 10 months ago. Immigration judges have twice denied him asylum, but a
previous BIA ruling said there was insufficient evidence to bar him. The BIA
must again decide whether to uphold the denial of asylum or grant Haddam's
appeal.

Haddam's attorney said she will ask for a review by the attorney general.

"I honestly cannot get a straight answer from anybody" on why a resolution has
taken years, said Kiblan, of McLean, Va. "We are asking for a meeting on this
case with Janet Reno." She said the classified information against Haddam
consists of "newspaper articles, phone numbers and anonymous affidavits from
people whose identities were not revealed even to the judges."

The government also appears unwilling to release Haddam to seek asylum
elsewhere, said his wife. Her husband has been moved to different jails a
half-dozen times, she said. The couple has four children. She asked him not to
go on a hunger strike. She told him she needs him alive.

"I am dead already in here," she said he told her.


LOAD-DATE: May 18, 2000

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                    Copyright 2000 Times Publishing Company


                              247 of 280 DOCUMENTS

                         St. Petersburg Times (Florida)

                             May 23, 2000, Tuesday

Beating charges dropped in home invasion case

SECTION: PASCO TIMES; BRIEFLY; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 272 words

DATELINE: DADE CITY



(ran PC edition of PASCO TIMES)

As prosecutors predicted last week, international bureaucracy has forced the the
state to drop charges against a man accused of beating another man with a metal
pipe last year.

Ramiro Clemente, 26, faced a possible life sentence if convicted of battery in
the commission of a burglary in a July 31 attack on Humberto Morales at Morales'

 home just north of Dade City limits.

Investigators said that in the attack, Clemente knocked Morales unconscious. He
was briefly hospitalized and has recovered.

Another man, still unidentified, fatally stabbed Morales' house guest, Benjamin
Salgado-Ortiz, 27. Clemente never has been accused in the killing.

Assistant State Attorney Manny Garcia told a judge last week the state was
unable to work a deal with federal immigration and Mexican officials to bring
Morales, who had been in this country illegally, back from his Mexican home to
be a witness against Clemente.

Shortly after the hearing, Garcia said the state filed the paperwork to drop the
charges. The notice appeared in court files Monday, the day Clemente was to
stand trial.

Records show the charges have been dropped, but Clemente remained Monday at the
Pasco County jail in Land O'Lakes without bail on an unrelated Hillsborough
County warrant accusing him of failure to appear in court there on a charge of
attempted carjacking.

According to the notice filed by prosecutors, "Neither the Mexican consulate nor
the Immigration and Naturalization Services will allow (Morales) to return to
the United States. Without the victim, the state of Florida is unable to
proceed."


LOAD-DATE: May 23, 2000

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DISTRIBUTION: PASCO TIMES; TAMPA & STATE

TYPE: DIGEST

                    Copyright 2000 Times Publishing Company


                              248 of 280 DOCUMENTS

                         St. Petersburg Times (Florida)

                             May 23, 2000, Tuesday

Tarpon employee's visa troubles over

BYLINE: KATHERINE GAZELLA

SECTION: NORTH PINELLAS TIMES; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 291 words

DATELINE: TARPON SPRINGS



The city's new human resources director, a Canadian citizen, has been waiting
since October to start her job.

After spending months in immigration limbo, the city's new human resources
director has gotten her visa and will start the job this week.

Jane Kniffen, a Canadian citizen, received her work visa last week and almost
immediately drove from Courtland, Ontario, to Tarpon Springs.

Kniffen said she looks forward to meeting all the people at City Hall and diving
into the new job.

"I'm getting to know my way around," she said before a meeting with City Manager
Ellen Posivach on Monday.

The position has been vacant since Al Michetti resigned a year ago.

After she was hired in October, city officials thought Kniffen would get a work
visa from the U.S. Immigration and Naturalization Service in January or
February. Then they thought she would arrive at the end of April.

Posivach said she is anxious for Kniffen to start working. The two of them will
focus on the "high performance organizations" theory of management, which calls
for organizations to continually raise their performance standards, Posivach
said.

Kniffen's expertise with high performance organizations was one of the reasons
she was selected for the job, Posivach said. Three separate panels of
interviewers chose Kniffen as the best candidate for the job.

Kniffen has a strong grasp of U.S. labor and human resources laws, Posivach
said.

Kniffen has worked 17 years in the field of human resources, most recently for
the school board in London, Ontario. "This woman came in and she absolutely blew
everybody away" in the interviews, Posivach said.

Kniffen's temporary work visa lasts for three years, then can be renewed for
another three.


LOAD-DATE: May 23, 2000

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DISTRIBUTION: NORTH PINELLAS TIMES

                    Copyright 2000 Times Publishing Company


                              249 of 280 DOCUMENTS

                         St. Petersburg Times (Florida)

                             May 25, 2000, Thursday

Tarpon worker's visa troubles over

BYLINE: KATHERINE GAZELLA

SECTION: CLEARWATER TIMES; Pg. 8

LENGTH: 290 words

DATELINE: TARPON SPRINGS



The city's new human resources director, a Canadian citizen, has been waiting
since October to start her job.

After spending months in immigration limbo, the city's new human resources
director has gotten her visa and will start the job this week.

Jane Kniffen, a Canadian citizen, received her work visa last week and almost
immediately drove from Courtland, Ontario, to Tarpon Springs.

Kniffen said she looks forward to meeting all the people at City Hall and diving
into the new job.

"I'm getting to know my way around," she said before a meeting with City Manager
Ellen Posivach on Monday.

The position has been vacant since Al Michetti resigned a year ago.

After she was hired in October, city officials thought Kniffen would get a work
visa from the U.S. Immigration and Naturalization Service in January or
February. Then they thought she would arrive at the end of April.

Posivach said she is eager for Kniffen to start working. The two of them will
focus on the "high performance organizations" theory of management, which calls
for organizations to continually raise their performance standards, Posivach
said.

Kniffen's expertise with high performance organizations was one of the reasons
she was selected for the job, Posivach said. Three separate panels of
interviewers chose Kniffen as the best candidate for the job.

Kniffen has a strong grasp of U.S. labor and human resources laws, Posivach
said.

Kniffen has worked 17 years in the field of human resources, most recently for
the school board in London, Ontario. "This woman came in and she absolutely blew
everybody away" in the interviews, Posivach said.

Kniffen's temporary work visa lasts for three years, then can be renewed for
another three.


LOAD-DATE: May 25, 2000

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DISTRIBUTION: CLEARWATER TIMES

                    Copyright 2000 Times Publishing Company


                              250 of 280 DOCUMENTS

                         St. Petersburg Times (Florida)

                 May 26, 2000, Friday, 0 South Pinellas Edition

Britain's anti-immigrant shame

SECTION: EDITORIAL; EDITORIALS; Pg. 16A

LENGTH: 347 words



The United Kingdom today is a vibrant multiracial society much enriched by its
immigrants. Yet despite the obvious success of a multicultural Britain, the
opposition Conservative Party is retreating to its old xenophobia. Leader
William Hague warns against "floods" of foreigners swamping "soft-touch"
Britain. He wants refugees, mostly Kosovars and Romanian Gypsies, to be locked
in "detention centers" while their claims are judged. Under the Conservative
plan, these destitute people, fleeing civil war, persecution, even starvation,
would be incarcerated like criminals and presumed to have "bogus" claims until
they can prove otherwise. (U.S. immigration policy makes it hard for Americans
to lecture the British.)

While the Labor government condemns this "concentration camp" idea, it hasn't
been much more compassionate than the Tories toward asylum seekers. Faced with a
backlog of about 100,000 unprocessed applications for entry into the U.K., Home
Secretary Jack Straw has promised to clamp down on mere "economic migrants" and
"freeloaders." The anti-foreigner tone of both Labor and Tory politicians has
led the United Nations to reprimand both sides for hateful, racist and generally
unhelpful attitudes toward people who, even if they are fleeing poverty rather
than ethnic cleansing, hardly stow away in the backs of refrigerator trucks or
pay smugglers to get them places in airplane cargo holds just for the fun of it.

The doors are slamming in the faces of refugees all over Europe. The French
Right still agitates for limits on the intake from France's former colonial
possessions; the Austrian Freedom Party, now part of the government, wants
mandatory jail terms for those who enter the country illegally. And in recent
Italian regional elections, the right-wing party of the scandal-dogged former
premier Silvio Berlusconi hooked up with the Fascists and won big on an
anti-immigrant platform.

For many refugees, Britain, with its reputation as a liberal, tolerant, diverse
nation, seemed a good place to go. Now they aren't so sure.


LOAD-DATE: May 26, 2000

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: EDITORIAL

                    Copyright 2000 Times Publishing Company


                              251 of 280 DOCUMENTS

                         St. Petersburg Times (Florida)

                June 05, 2000, Monday, 0 South Pinellas Edition

Report: Cuban 3B Morales defects

SOURCE: Compiled from Wire Reports

SECTION: SPORTS; NOTEBOOK; Pg. 4C

LENGTH: 316 words



A Cuban baseball player who hit a key home run last year against the Orioles
reportedly was aboard a U.S. Coast Guard cutter Sunday, one of 31 would-be
defectors found on a boat stranded near Key West.

Agent Gus Dominguez said Coast Guard officials have told him Andy Morales, a
24-year-old third baseman and designated hitter, is one of the Cubans aboard the
cutter.

Coast Guard and Immigration and Naturalization Service officials would not
confirm that Sunday. The Coast Guard said the Cubans were aboard a power boat
that ran out of fuel Friday.

The Cubans are being interviewed by INS officials on the cutter, INS spokesman
Rodney Germain said. Those who might have legitimate claims to political asylum
will be brought to the United States for processing, he said, while the others
could be returned to Cuba.

A'S: The three-game attendance of 145,288 was the most at the Oakland Coliseum
for a three-game set. It eclipsed the 140,876 who turned out to see the Yankees
on May 1-3, 1981.

BLUE JAYS: Catcher Darrin Fletcher (right shoulder strain) left in the fourth
inning. He is day-to-day.

CARDINALS: Jim Edmonds has reached base safely in 50 of 53 starts. Outfielder
Ray Lankford (hamstring), who left Saturday's game after eight innings, did not
play.

INDIANS: Cleveland and St. Louis combined for 51 strikeouts the past two days.

METS: Rick Reed (strained left side) threw 50 pitches off the mound and reported
no pain. He will throw again today before a final decision is made about his
projected start Tuesday against Baltimore.

PADRES: San Diego placed right-handed pitcher Donne Wall (tendinitis in right
shoulder) on the 15-day disabled list. Right-handed pitcher Brandon Kolb was
recalled from Triple-A Las Vegas.

REDS: Ex-Miami Hurricane Danny Graves improved to 8-0. He's the first Cincinnati
pitcher to start 8-0 since Mike LaCoss in 1979.

- TIMES WIRES


LOAD-DATE: June 8, 2000

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: DIGEST

                    Copyright 2000 Times Publishing Company


                              252 of 280 DOCUMENTS

                         St. Petersburg Times (Florida)

                            June 07, 2000, Wednesday

Triathlete doesn't know if she will be competing

BYLINE: ANTONYA ENGLISH

SECTION: CITRUS TIMES; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 923 words



Five days ago, Laura DeWitt was prepared to head to France to compete in the
biggest athletic event of her life.

She has trained for the past four months, spending countless hours swimming,
biking and running in preparation for next week's Nice International Triathlon.



But instead of spending the week making sure her wet suit is intact and her
running shoes are in the suitcase, DeWitt has instead found herself battling the
United States Immigration Department for the right to leave the country.

The 38-year-old mother of two has been living in the United States for ten years
and has been married to Times reporter Dan DeWitt for six.

But Laura DeWitt never applied for American citizenship, and her current
application for permanent residency is pending. There is a 1 1/2-year waiting
period from the time an application is filed.

So per U.S. immigration laws, if DeWitt were to leave the country before
obtaining permanent residency, she could be detained and not allowed back in the
country for 10 years.

DeWitt learned of the dilemma Thursday when she went to Tampa to pick up the
necessary papers to travel.

"I was devastated," she said. "It was like everything I've been working for all
this time was gone."

DeWitt is scheduled to compete in the Nice International Triathlon on June 18 in
France. The event also is the host of the Long Course World Triathlon
Championship.

Competitors will compete in a 2.4-mile swim, 78-mile bike ride and 18-mile run.

She qualified for the event by finishing in the top 10 at the Florida
Half-Ironman competition last September, where she earned ninth place. DeWitt
had the second fastest women's time in the bike competition at 2 hours, 51
minutes.

For the past 16 weeks, the owner of Inverness Natural Foods has diligently
trained for the triathlon. She is ranked No. 7 in the state in her age group.

"If you have a business and kids, the worst sport you can be in is the triathlon
because it's three different things you have to do," DeWitt said.

"It's crazy. I'm lucky that my husband appreciates what I'm doing."

Her training schedule is rigorous and demanding.

On Sundays, DeWitt and her husband spend about four hours on a 70-mile bike
ride.

"The number of Sundays that I say what I'd give to drink coffee and read the
paper," DeWitt said. "But it has to be done. We send the kids to the babysitter
and then we go ride. That's our treat."

Monday mornings, DeWitt embarks on a 4.5-mile run. Tuesdays, she can be found
working out with weights and swimming at the Brooksville YMCA. Wednesdays,
DeWitt's parents babysit her 2- and 4-year-old children so she can run 15 miles
at Croom Forest.

"That's the workout I hate the most," she said.

Thursday is a day of rest for DeWitt - from work. She uses that day to swim, run
on the treadmill, work out then "chase my kids around the rest of the day."

By Friday, there is a 40-mile bike workout to be done, and Saturday is her one
day away from physical activity.

DeWitt competed in her first triathlon when she was 27, but she wasn't serious
about the sport.

"I had a canoe helmet and ran in squash shorts," she said jokingly. "I was
totally not equipped."

But the birth of her children brought on an additional 40 pounds with each
pregnancy, weight DeWitt found difficult to shed after her second child was
born. She began running to lose weight.

In 1998, a friend of DeWitt's asked if she would participate in the running leg
of a team effort in the Crystal River Triathlon.

The team won the women's relay event. Afterward, DeWitt's friend, Nancy Jones,
told her she thought DeWitt might be a good cyclist.

She began riding with professional cyclists in Brooksville and competed in her
first complete triathlon in Clermont in 1998. She earned fifth place in her age
group.

In September 1998, DeWitt won her age group in the Temple Terrace Top Cop
competition - in just her third triathlon.

"It's weird because with triathlons, you get better the more you do," DeWitt
said. "Your muscles have to learn to cope with the stress. That's why women in
their 40s have better splits. They get stronger over the years."

She has gone from a size 14 to a size 6 in less than two years and is hooked on
triathlon competition.

"I'm very competitive," DeWitt said. "I love to train to a goal. I think that's
really cool."

With the exception of a three-month period when DeWitt was stung by a stingray
while on vacation, she has trained diligently for each event. But none more so
than the Nice triathlon, which is why DeWitt is so anguished over the
immigration situation.

"I'm totally mangled up and stressed out," she said Tuesday afternoon as she
awaited final word on if she can leave the country. "I don't know what I should
be doing - resting or training or what."

DeWitt has been in contact with a senior immigration official in Miami who has
asked to see a copy of the letter from USA Triathlon in which she was awarded a
place on the U.S. team to compete in France.

She also has contacted U.S. House Rep. Karen Thurman's office for guidance.

"Karen Thurman has been in contact with a liaison in the INS, and her office has
said they don't think it will be a problem because once you are granted the
advance parole, which I have been granted, they can't think of a single instance
where there would be a problem," DeWitt said.

"But I need a guarantee. Right now, things are looking very positive. We've had
tremendous support, and everybody has been incredibly sympathetic."


LOAD-DATE: June 8, 2000

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DISTRIBUTION: CITRUS TIMES; HERNANDO TIMES

GRAPHIC: BLACK AND WHITE PHOTO, BRIAN TIETZ; Laura DeWitt

                    Copyright 2000 Times Publishing Company


                              253 of 280 DOCUMENTS

                         St. Petersburg Times (Florida)

                             June 11, 2000, Sunday

DeWitt gives up on going to elite triathlon in France

BYLINE: ANTONYA ENGLISH

SECTION: CITRUS TIMES; Pg. 10

LENGTH: 777 words

DATELINE: INVERNESS



A British citizen, the trip could threaten her bid for permanent residency in
the United States.

Laura DeWitt was supposed to be flying to France this week to participate in an
elite triathlon competition.

Instead, she's competing in a sprint series triathlon in Clermont this morning,
trying to get over one of the biggest disappointments of her athletic career.

The former college squash player turned triathlete will not be competing in the
Nice International Triathlon June 18 because immigration laws are preventing the
British citizen from traveling abroad.

"We're not going," said DeWitt, 38, a mother of two children who has been trying
since last Thursday to find a loophole that would allow her to travel. "We had a
lot of people working really hard for us - (U.S. Representative) Karen Thurman's
office and USA Triathlon were a great help. It's such a slight chance that I'll
have any problems, but it's a chance I just can't take."

The Nice International Triathlon also serves as the Long Course World Triathlon
Championship. Competition includes a 2.4-mile swim, 78-mile bike ride and
18-mile run. DeWitt qualified by finishing in the top 10 at the Florida
Half-Ironman competition last September. For the past 16 weeks, she has
diligently trained for the overseas competition.

DeWitt has been living in the United States for 10 years and has been married to
Times reporter Dan DeWitt for six years, but she never applied for American
citizenship and her current application for permanent residency is pending.

There is a 1 1/2-year waiting period from the time an application is filed.

So, per U.S. immigration laws, if DeWitt were to leave the country before
obtaining permanent residency, she could be detained and not allowed back in the
country for up to 10 years.

According to Maria Elena Garcia of the U.S. Immigration and Naturalization
Service in Miami, whether a person can travel outside the United States without
becoming a permanent resident is determined on an individual basis.

"When you are in the U.S., file for permanent residency and your application is
pending, you cannot travel outside of the country unless you get permission from
the service," said Garcia, a public information officer.

"The reason is a logical explanation: A lot of people might come in on a
visitor's visa - they come to visit and will go back home eventually. If you
come here to immigrate and to get a green card, you are no longer a visitor so
therefore you cannot travel on a non-immigrant visa and then return. That's why
a person can apply for advance parole, which is a legal permission to travel."

DeWitt obtained the necessary papers to travel to the event, but has been told
by an INS examiner that taking the trip might affect her chances of becoming a
permanent resident.

"The fact that she had traveled while on probation could have been an issue and
gotten her deported later," Dan DeWitt said. "We could have fought it but who
wants to do that, hire lawyers and such?"

Even the INS acknowledges that while there's only a slight chance Laura DeWitt's
departure might cause problems, there is a chance.

"If you get permission from the immigration service, then you can leave and come
back without a problem, provided you are okay to come back," Garcia said. "But
everybody is subject to question. She might have to adjust her status outside of
the country as opposed to the U.S. It definitely is on a case-by-case basis."

DeWitt said she had to look past next week and to the future when making her
final decision.

"The INS said because I have my travel pass it won't interfere with my re-entry,
but it might come up in my final interview in 18 months," she said. "The fact
that I left the country knowing about the restriction might severely prejudice
my application for permanent residency."

DeWitt said she has been encouraged by the help and the kind words she has
gotten from strangers who read about her plight - including several people at
the Brooksville YMCA who have had their own immigration troubles.

For now, she'll have to find a way to move on. She plans to train for the
October Ironman in Clermont, and possibly the Ironman in Hawaii, where she won't
have to leave the United States.

"I'm devastated, but it's not the end of the world," DeWitt said. "It's not like
my kids are sick. It's just all the hard work and the expectations for nothing.
But I'm going to compete (today) and try to make myself feel better. I hope that
will lick my wounds a bit.

"The way I look at it is that I'm improving so much I know I'll qualify again.
It's just unfortunate that I won't get to go this time."


LOAD-DATE: June 12, 2000

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DISTRIBUTION: CITRUS TIMES

GRAPHIC: BLACK AND WHITE PHOTO; Laura DeWitt

                    Copyright 2000 Times Publishing Company


                              254 of 280 DOCUMENTS

                         St. Petersburg Times (Florida)

               June 15, 2000, Thursday, 0 South Pinellas Edition

Elian's Miami relatives appeal court decision

BYLINE: DAVID ADAMS

SECTION: NATIONAL; Pg. 5A

LENGTH: 283 words

DATELINE: MIAMI



Lawyers for the Miami relatives of Elian Gonzalez petitioned Wednesday to have
their case reheard before the 11th U.S. Circuit Court of Appeals in Atlanta, two
weeks after a three-judge panel rejected their legal effort to stop the
6-year-old from being sent back to Cuba.

The new appeal, before the entire 12-judge court, argues that the earlier ruling
failed to consider recent changes in legal doctrine regarding the constitutional
right of foreigners to seek asylum in the United States.

In a statement, lawyers for the Miami family said the matter was too important
not to be addressed by the full court. "The issue of constitutional protection
for asylum-seekers is especially crucial for thousands of refugee children who
reach our shores each year," the lawyers said.

Experts say the decision to appeal the Atlanta ruling is a legal long shot, but
one that may buy more time for Elian's Miami family, led by his great-uncle,
Lazaro Gonzalez. The relatives have expressed their intention to fight the case
all the way to the Supreme Court if necessary.

Last month's ruling appeared to give the Miami lawyers little room to maneuver.
The three judges argued that they lacked the authority to order the Immigration
and Naturalization Service to grant Elian a political asylum hearing. As the law
stands, they said, the government has broad discretionary powers in immigration
matters.

Elian was rescued at sea in November after the boat bringing him from Cuba sank.
His mother and 11 other Cubans drowned. In January, the Justice Department ruled
that he belonged with his father in Cuba.

In March, a federal judge in Miami upheld the government's right to deport
Elian.


LOAD-DATE: June 15, 2000

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                    Copyright 2000 Times Publishing Company


                              255 of 280 DOCUMENTS

                         St. Petersburg Times (Florida)

                July 11, 2000, Tuesday, 0 South Pinellas Edition

Drug-slay fugitive caught in Mexico

SOURCE: Compiled from Times Wires

SECTION: NATIONAL; IN BRIEF; Pg. 3A

LENGTH: 492 words

DATELINE: PHOENIX; WASHINGTON



A man accused of leading a drug ring and sought in the 1994 killing of an
undercover federal drug agent was arrested by Mexican authorities, officials
said Monday.

Augustin Vasquez Mendoza, who has been on the FBI's 10 Most Wanted List for four
years, was captured Sunday in Tehuacan in central Mexico. U.S. authorities, who
had offered $ 2.2-million for his capture, have agreed to waive the death
penalty as a term of his extradition.

Extradition could take up to a year, Maricopa County Attorney Rick Romley said.

He said informers who helped authorities capture the fugitive will split the $
2.2-million.

Iranian ordered deported

to third country

WASHINGTON - An immigration judge on Monday ordered the deportation of an
Iranian dissident who has been detained since April on suspicion of belonging to
a group designated by the State Department as a sponsor of terrorist activities.

But as part of a settlement, Mahnaz Samadi, 35, who claims to have been tortured
in Iran between 1982 and 1986, will be deported to a third country, not to Iran,
an immigration spokesman said.

Her attorney, disputing that assertion, said Samadi will be allowed to remain
indefinitely in the United States.

She was accused in immigration documents of preparing rebel units under her
command for "coordinated attacks designed to liberate Iran." The settlement
calls for her release from detention and the dropping of terrorism-related
charges against her, said Russ Bergeron, a spokesman for the Immigration and
Naturalization Service.

In politics . . .

GORE: Vice President Al Gore said Monday that the failure of a test for a
national missile defense system does not mean the idea is doomed, and he
criticized the version supported by presidential foe George W. Bush as "more
expensive and less likely to work."

Gore, typing his answers to questions on the Internet, said Bush's proposal is
"calculated to destroy arms control agreements with Russia that have calmed down
the old arms race for the last 28 years."

The Democratic presidential contender answered the online questions before
giving a speech at Connecticut State University in New Britain, Conn.,
criticizing a "do-nothing-for-people" Republican Congress and saying the
situation could get worse if Bush is elected.

REFORM PARTY: Pat Buchanan's campaign has forced the removal of Russell Verney
as chairman of the Reform Party's convention credentials committee in an effort
to prevent allies of Ross Perot from blocking Buchanan's nomination for
president.

Also . . .

YOUTH HOCKEY GAME DEATH: Thomas Junta, 42, accused of beating another father to
death in an argument over rough play at their youngsters' hockey game, pleaded
innocent to manslaughter Monday in Woburn, Mass.

TEN COMMANDMENTS: The American Civil Liberties Union of Kentucky filed a federal
lawsuit Monday challenging a law requiring the placement of a Ten Commandments
monument outside the Capitol.


LOAD-DATE: July 12, 2000

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: DIGEST

                    Copyright 2000 Times Publishing Company


                              256 of 280 DOCUMENTS

                         St. Petersburg Times (Florida)

               July 15, 2000, Saturday, 0 South Pinellas Edition

Former teacher asks for rehearing

BYLINE: SUSAN ASCHOFF

SECTION: CITY & STATE; Pg. 3B

LENGTH: 297 words



Attorneys for Mazen Al-Najjar asked Friday a federal judge who found the Tampa
man's first bond hearing unconstitutional to put some teeth in her order for a
rehearing by setting a deadline of 30 days.

The 43-year-old Palestinian, a former University of South Florida teacher, has
been in jail for three years by the U.S. Immigration and Naturalization Service
on secret evidence that the government says indicates he has ties to terrorists.

He is ordered to be deported for overstaying a student visa, but he denies any
other wrongdoing.

Al-Najjar's lengthy incarceration on secret evidence has drawn national
attention from civil rights and immigration activists as well as more than 100
U.S. House members who want the practice stopped.

He won a major ruling - his first in federal court - when U.S. District Judge
Joan A. Lenard  found May 31 he was denied his due process rights at his
original bond hearing in 1997. Al-Najjar could not defend himself against
unrevealed evidence, she said, and ordered a rehearing.

There has been no hearing scheduled. The government has filed for delays. And
Al-Najjar remains in detention in Bradenton.

Friday's filing asks Lenard to set a 30-day deadline. Her ruling in May included
no time frame. Since she concluded then that Al-Najjar had been detained
unconstitutionally for more than three years, according to Friday's filing, he
deserves speedy relief.

The government contends bond should be decided not by the immigration judge in
Bradenton but the INS district director in Miami, as is typically done in cases
with a final deportation order.

The filing states asking the district director to decide bond is like asking the
"prosecutor."  It also fails to remedy the constitutional violations cited by
Lenard.


LOAD-DATE: July 15, 2000

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DISTRIBUTION: CITY & STATE; METRO & STATE; TAMPA & STATE

GRAPHIC: BLACK AND WHITE PHOTO; Mazen Al-Najjar

                    Copyright 2000 Times Publishing Company


                              257 of 280 DOCUMENTS

                         St. Petersburg Times (Florida)

                July 23, 2000, Sunday, 0 South Pinellas Edition

Cast upon the shores

BYLINE: DAVID ADAMS

SECTION: NATIONAL; Pg. 1A

LENGTH: 2172 words

DATELINE: MURCIA, Spain



Poor people take to the sea in dangerous vessels in hope of finding prosperity a
few miles and a world away. That familiar scene is playing out in Europe, where
African workers are looking for a better life.

Lured by its sunny beaches and vacation villas, foreigners have long been
welcomed on Spain's south coast.

Much like South Florida, the Costa del Sol, as it is known, is a teeming mass of
tourists during the holiday season.

And also much like South Florida, in recent years a new type of foreigner has
been landing on the shores here.

From only a few miles away across the Mediterranean have come tens of thousands
of African farm workers, lured by jobs in southern Spain's newly prosperous
agricultural sector.

While their labor is badly needed in the picking fields - few Spaniards will
accept such work - theirs is an uncertain welcome.

The large number of new immigrants has, for the first time, raised the ugly
specter in Spain of racial resentment and xenophobia.

"It's a very new situation for the Spanish people," said Juan Diez Nicolas,
president of the Forum for the Integration of Immigrants, a consultative body
that reports to the Spanish government. "We are just beginning to realize it's a
problem, and we don't really know how to deal with it."

Uncontrolled immigration also poses a global dilemma for the rich nations of
Europe. While the 15-member European Union seeks greater political and economic
integration, how willing is it to open its borders to the poor millions massed
to its south?

Some countries - Spain, Britain and Italy - increasingly need skilled workers
from abroad to fill job vacancies and boost their economies. But increasingly,
like the Florida Strait or the United States' border with Mexico, the Spanish
coastline has become a front line in Europe's defenses against illegal
immigration.

Some arrive with work papers to fill seasonal jobs picking lettuce and peppers
in hothouses. But many more come illegally, some paying up to $ 3,000 to be
smuggled aboard small, unseaworthy fishing vessels, which cross the Strait of
Gibraltar dodging Spanish police boats.

There are few places in the world where rich and poor live so close, yet so far
apart.

Less than 9 miles across at its narrowest point between the coasts of Morocco
and Spain, a craft can make the trip under cover of darkness in two hours.
Spanish newspapers daily carry articles about smuggling boats, known as
"pateras," intercepted at sea.

Already this year police have ar

rested more than 2,000 boat people aboard some 150 pateras. Human-rights groups
estimate as many as 100 have drowned in the overloaded boats. Ship captains
describe the strait, where the warm Mediterranean meets the Atlantic, as one of
the most treacherous sea passages.

Most come from Morocco, others from Algeria, Nigeria and war-torn Sierra Leone.
Spanish police estimate 50,000 illegal immigrants enter the country each year.
Last year 17,000 were expelled, mostly North Africans.

In absolute numbers this may not compare to alien arrivals in the United States,
but taken as a proportion of the population it comes much closer. Across the 15
countries of the European Union, police estimate that 500,000 people enter
illegally each year, compared with the 300,000 who violate U.S. borders.

In Spain the numbers appear to be rising all the time. In the space of only four
days last week, police detained 353 people aboard a dozen pateras along the
southwest coast.

Police blame many of the arrivals on the emergence of smuggling operations that
do a multimillion-dollar business in trafficking people across the strait.
Spanish newspapers report daily on police raids on homes where Africans are held
hostage by smugglers until a ransom is paid by their families.

Last month, 37 Africans were discovered packed into a truck on a highway from
Malaga to the fields of Murcia. They had not eaten for four days and had little
water. Several carried false working papers for which they had paid up to $
1,000.

After 58 Asians were found a day earlier suffocated in a truck arriving at the
British port of Dover, European ministers called for new measures to tackle the
smugglers.

As the main gateway into Europe, much of the burden inevitably falls on Spain.
Prime Minister Jose Maria Aznar is considering a $ 120-million plan to construct
an "electronic wall" across the Strait of Gibraltar, armed with radar towers,
infrared lights and sophisticated cameras.

Others argue such an effort is a waste of money. "Hunger has no frontiers," said
Maria Teresa Camacho, director of a Roman Catholic relief center in Murcia, a
major magnet for migrants who come to work in the fields nearby. "It's
impossible to stop these people from coming."

The center is besieged by immigrants from Africa and, increasingly, from eastern
Europe, mostly looking for work and legal advice. Others come for a bowl of food
and a place to sleep.

A hole in the door to Camacho's office, where angry immigrants tried to kick
their way in, testifies to the growing desperation.

"We have to do something to normalize those who are here because they are not
going to leave," she said. "Europe is getting older. For us to survive, we need
immigrants, but we have to recognize that they are also human beings with
rights."

While Spain is enjoying a new status as one of the most dynamic economies in the
European Union, its transformation involves some difficult adjustments.

Rapid economic growth, coupled with one of the world's lowest birth rates, has
fueled the demand for cheap, unskilled labor from abroad.

Without large-scale immigration (or a radical change in the birthrate of 1.2
children per woman), Spain will in the future be unable to sustain its
taxpayer-funded social security and pension systems. According to United Nations
data, by 2050, people older than 65 will account for 37 percent of the Spanish
population, up from 17 percent today.

But this is a reality hard for many Spaniards to swallow.

"Spain is searching for a new identity and future," said Mustapha El Mrabet,
spokesman for the Association of Moroccan Workers and Immigrants in Spain. "The
standard of living in Spain has risen dramatically because of all the immigrants
working the soil. They have to accept that there's another culture, another
society in their midst. Without the immigrants, Spain's economy is finished."

Spain boasts a history of cultural integration, including a period of 700 years
of Islamic rule by the Moors. Many towns and cities in the south that today bear
the brunt of Moroccan immigration still carry Arab names, or traces of Moorish
architecture. The Catholic relief center in Murcia sits next to the cathedral,
built on the site of a former mosque.

But Arab rule ended with the Reconquista (reconquest) by the Christian kings of
Spain in 1492, the same year that Colombus set sail for the New World.

Today Spain is a homegrown society. Only 1.8 percent of its 40-million
inhabitants is foreign born. The average in the rest of Europe is around 5
percent.

For most of this century, Spain exported its citizens because of civil war and
economic stagnation. Only recently did the number of immigrants exceed those
leaving the country. Even today, Spain has more than three times as many
Spaniards living overseas as resident foreigners, although that is changing
fast.

Large-scale immigration has already led to racial flare-ups in some areas.

Last February, southern Spain was rocked by anti-immigrant violence in the town
of El Ejido, just down the coast from the popular resort of Malaga.

For three consecutive days mobs of local residents wielding sticks and shouting
racist abuse chased Moroccan and other African immigrants through the streets.
Some threw molotov cocktails, setting fire to immigrant homes and stores. More
than 50 Africans were hospitalized.

The violence was widely condemned across Spain, and it was seen as an isolated
incident.

But immigrant groups and human-rights advocates warn that southern Spain is a
tinderbox of racial tensions. They compare the region to other parts of Europe
where the influx of cheap immigrant labor has given rise to widespread
xenophobia.

Anti-immigrant feelings in Spain have yet to coalesce in a political movement,
as has happened in France and Austria. But signs are appearing.

"It's not that Spain is a racist country," said El Mrabet. "But it will be if
the necessary steps aren't taken. All it needs is for a charismatic political
figure to appear and you have a Le Pen or a Haidar," referring to ultra-right
leaders in France and Austria.

The incidents of racial violence are becoming more frequent. A year ago the
Cananglada neighborhood of Barcelona erupted in violent protests against a group
of Moroccans who had settled there. During three nights of demonstrations,
immigrants were beaten and their houses attacked and burned.

Last week a Moroccan was beaten to death with a baseball bat by two 18-year-olds
in Barcelona. After their arrest, they greeted onlookers with a fascist salute.

"We are not a xenophobic society," said Diez Nicolas, the government consultant.
"The number of cases (of attacks on immigrants) is so small that we all remember
the few cases there have been."

Even so, Diez Nicolas warns urgent government action is needed to nip any racist
sentiment in the bud.

"If we allow the situation to get out of control there's no doubt that would
create xenophobic attitudes in a very short time."

Government policy has been ambiguous at best.

Last year, Spain's National Assembly passed a generous but controversial law
granting broad rights to immigrants, including easing conditions for those
already in the country to obtain work permits. But the government has since
backtracked. It has announced plans to introduce a new law later this year
curtailing some immigrant rights.

Under current law, undocumented immigrants have until the end of this month to
register for work permits. To earn the right to stay, they must prove they have
been living and working in Spain for the past year.

Thousands have already registered. But for many who work illegally, proving
their existence is hard to do, with employers paying wages under the table to
raise profits and avoid social security dues.

Eight years after coming to Spain from Morocco, all 63-year-old Jelloul Bennouna
has to show for his immigrant's dream is a wood-frame shack covered with plastic
sheeting.

"I came looking for work, a better life, and this is the reality I found," he
said, surveying a cluster of seven fly-infested dwellings by a rubbish dump on
the outskirts of El Mirador, an area of intense farming under plastic-covered
hothouses.

Bennouna said he and a group of 40 young men had been living by the dump,
without electricity or running water, for three years.

Despite holding a work permit, Bennouna can't find employment. Standing next to
a plastic shack bearing the Arabic words "Allah o akbar" (God is Great), he
complained jobs are scarce for Moroccans.

"The businesses here want illegal Ecuadorans. They work for less," he said.

Local businessmen confirmed a preference for hiring Spanish-speaking Ecuadorans.
Moroccans - especially young men - had a reputation for being unreliable and
irresponsible, they said.

"The Ecuadorans integrate better," said Brigido Caravaca, 32, a labor contractor
for a major agricultural business exporting vegetables to northern Europe. "The
Moroccans get drunk and create problems with (Spanish) girls."

On integration, Caravaca spoke from personal experience. His girlfriend, Mirna
Mieles, 30, left her family in Ecuador to come to Spain 18 months ago.

"At first it was very hard," said Mieles, describing the exhausting eight-hour
days picking peppers under the hot plastic sheeting. "I had fevers and lost
weight. I had no energy. I was like a robot programmed for work."

She has since moved indoors to a packing plant, earning 5,000 pesetas ($ 30) a
day.

For those like Mieles who are able to obtain work permits, it is a dream come
true. In many respects the Spanish immigrant dream makes the American dream pale
by comparison. Legal immigrants enjoy the same benefits of free health and
educational services as the rest of Spain.

But Spain also is a victim of its own recent success. Economic growth and new
jobs, coupled with softer immigration laws, have turned Spain into a new mecca
for migrants. But as with all immigration waves, there are never enough jobs,
opportunities and services to keep up with the flow.

At the relief center in Murcia, volunteers warn new arrivals not to get their
hopes up. When one undocumented woman from Ukraine explains that she has already
sent word to her husband and infant child to smuggle their way to Spain, she
receives a stern reality check from the center's director.

Camacho warns: "Tell her they are going to have a rough time."

Text accompanying drawing not provided for the electronic library. Please see
microfilm.


LOAD-DATE: July 24, 2000

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: COLOR PHOTO, Associated Press, (2); BLACK AND WHITE DRAWING; BLACK AND
WHITE GRAPH; A group of immigrants from various African countries is ordered to
lie down on the beach by Civil Guards in Tarifa, Spain. ; Moroccan workers shout
for peace in February.; Drawing illustrating how Spain's proposed system (SIVE)
for detecting illegal immigrants in the Strait of Gibraltar may be implemented,
includes a map of Spain.; Graph illustrating Spain's falling birthrate

                    Copyright 2000 Times Publishing Company


                              258 of 280 DOCUMENTS

                         St. Petersburg Times (Florida)

              August 10, 2000, Thursday, 0 South Pinellas Edition

Violence on immigrants

SECTION: EDITORIAL; EDITORIALS; Pg. 16A

LENGTH: 331 words



Muhammad Naeem Akhtar, who owned a Tampa convenience store, died last month in a
tragedy that reflects a troubling aspect of American culture. The Pakistani
father of three fled the violence of his homeland only to be shot by a gunman
police identified as a 19-year-old street hoodlum.

Immigrants have always been forced into America's most dangerous jobs. Many
Irish immigrants built the railroads. Poles found work in the coal mines of
Pennsylvania. East Europeans and Africans drive cabs in New York and other large
cities. Workplace accidents are one thing; workplace violence is another.
Immigrants are a target not only physically but in popular culture. And few
images incite xenophobia more than the Asian or Indian who owns a convenience
store. On Seinfeld, Jerry jokes about being ripped off at the corner bodega. On
The Simpsons, Apu Nahasapeemapetilon makes a comic character as the robbed,
mugged and oft-shot owner of the Kwik-E-Mart. ("Here's a pointer. Try to take it
in the shoulder.")

When did violence against immigrant shopkeepers become a joke? Several years
ago, a reader asked a Chicago news weekly to explain how Korean-Americans could
afford to open so many grocery stores. His beef was clear: Americans want
convenience but resent paying the price to foreign-born merchants. Many, like
Akhtar, buy stores in poor and crime-ridden areas, accepting the risk that comes
with the opportunity to make a better life for their families.

The murder of entrepreneurs like Akhtar helps to skew for many Americans the
true sense of the immigrant experience. We glorify the contribution made by
earlier generations while trashing what some view as the exploitative practices
of the new. But that view ignores the barriers immigrants overcome through
thrift and collective spirit.  The murder of an immigrant shopkeeper is not a
cliche or a laugh line at Fox, but a tragedy that society must never accept as
the price of doing business in poor neighborhoods.


LOAD-DATE: August 10, 2000

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: EDITORIAL

                    Copyright 2000 Times Publishing Company


                              259 of 280 DOCUMENTS

                         St. Petersburg Times (Florida)

                            April 06, 2000, Thursday

County may house INS prisoners

BYLINE: JEFFREY S. SOLOCHEK

SECTION: HERNANDO TIMES; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 495 words

DATELINE: BROOKSVILLE



(ran PW, PC editions of Pasco Times)

Economic officials explore a private company's desire to build and operate a
federal detention center.

The prison business could be on its way to Hernando County.

Wackenhut Corrections Corp. of Palm Beach Gardens is looking to build and
operate a detention center for the Immigration and Naturalization Service
somewhere in the county, Commissioner Bobbi Mills said Wednesday.

The county Economic Development Commission "has gotten an opportunity to get in
with a private corrections institute that is looking for about 50 acres to put
up a facility to house federal alien prisoners," Mills said.

Morris Porton, president of the EDC board of directors, confirmed the
organization is looking at a prison project but added he had no more
information. He expected EDC director Rick Michael to report to the board of
directors next week.

Michael could not be reached for comment Wednesday. No information was available
on where the prison might be located.

To explore the possibilities, Commissioners Paul Sullivan and Nancy Robinson
will visit a Wackenhut medium/close-custody security prison near Lake Okeechobee
today. The EDC invited the full commission on the trip late Tuesday and early
Wednesday, but three of the commissioners had other plans.

Sullivan had little information about the visit other than the fact that the
commissioners would tour the prison separately to avoid breaking the Sunshine
Law. If Wackenhut decides to build in the county, he said, it would be a welcome
addition to the economy.

"If it's a clean industry, absolutely," said Sullivan, whose wife, Cathie, works
at the Hernando County Jail.

Mills held a dimmer view of the presence of a prison, even though it might
support several high-paying jobs. She worried that the facility might take
security officers, already in short supply, away from the local, state and
federal prisons and jails in the region.

She also raised concerns about possible health problems such as tuberculosis
associated with illegal migrants and noted that property values near a prison
might plummet.

"Who would really want to be next to a prison?" Mills said.

Robinson said she knew very little about the proposal and had no opinion on the
issue. She viewed today's trip as strictly informative.

Regardless of what commissioners think about the project, she said, the
commission is unlikely to offer any incentive to the developer. It would be a
private venture based on the company's desires, Robinson said.

Commissioner Pat Novy agreed, saying, "We have not made a practice" of making
deals to persuade companies to locate in the county.

Wackenhut, whose stock is traded on the New York Stock Exchange, has two INS
detention centers, one in Aurora, Colo., and another in Jamaica, N.Y. It has
three facilities in Florida and also runs prisons in 11 other states and Puerto
Rico, Canada, South Africa, New Zealand, Australia, England and Scotland.


LOAD-DATE: April 6, 2000

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DISTRIBUTION: HERNANDO TIMES; PASCO TIMES

                    Copyright 2000 Times Publishing Company


                              260 of 280 DOCUMENTS

                         St. Petersburg Times (Florida)

                             July 26, 1998, Sunday

The farm worker rip-off act of 1998

BYLINE: BILL MAXWELL

SECTION: PERSPECTIVE; Pg. 1D

LENGTH: 1162 words



Once again, the nation's farmers are counting on their pals in Congress to  let
them continue raking in huge profits by ripping off farm laborers. And  again,
Florida Sen. Bob Graham, D-Miami, is a main player in a grower-inspired
conspiracy.

This time, he has joined five other senators from major agricultural states  in
introducing a bill designed to let farmers hire tens of thousands of  temporary
foreign workers to cultivate and harvest crops - despite government  evidence
showing that such workers are unnecessary. The bill's other sponsors  are Dale
Bumpers, D-Ark., Slade Gorton, R-Wash., Larry Craig, R-Ind., Gordon  Smith,
R-Ore., and Ron Wyden, D-Ore.

Called the Agricultural Job Opportunity Benefits and Security Act, the  proposal
would replace the agricultural H-2A guestworker program. Growers  seldom use the
H-2A system because its recruitment, wage, housing and working  condition
requirements protect American workers from displacement and lower  wages
resulting from competition with exploitable foreign labor.

The legislation would kill many of these protections, said Greg Schell,
managing attorney of the Migrant Farmworker Justice Project in Belle Glade.
"This bill represents an enormous step backwards for America's workers," he
said. "Florida farmers would be guaranteed a limitless supply of cheap  foreign
labor at bargain basement prices. If this bill is adopted, all  competitive
incentives will be removed for Florida growers to improve wages  and benefits
for farm workers."

In light of a recent General Accounting Office report indicating that the
legislation would cause the loss of jobs among tens of thousands of U.S. farm
workers already experiencing high rates of unemployment and underemployment,
Graham's actions are inexcusable.

GAO officials argue that the proposal perpetuates the agricultural  industry's
lie about the nation not having enough laborers. Americans will not  do
backbreaking seasonal work, farmers claim. Untrue. Americans do all sorts  of
tough, dirty seasonal work - laying asphalt on highways, mining coal,  roofing
in 100-plus-degree weather, constructing buildings. The difference is  that
these jobs pay much better and usually offer benefits that everyone other  than
farm workers takes for granted.

If growers mean that Americans will not break their backs for a few dollars  an
hour under intolerable conditions, they are right. Rather than requiring
farmers to emulate their counterparts in other industries when they need
workers - improve wages and benefits - Graham's proposal reduces wages below
levels required under the current H-2A system and degrades the quality of
working conditions.

American agricultural practices, in fact, defy traditional economic theory,
which states: When labor is in short supply, wages increase. In the farming
industry, however - where farmers claim a shortage of labor - wages have  fallen
or remained stagnant for 20 years.

U.S. Department of Labor research indicates that the nation's top  agricultural
counties have unemployment rates three to five times higher than  the national
average. And thousands of these unemployed are welfare recipients  who need to
find work soon because their benefits are being cut off.

Growers invented the labor shortage myth to trap the docile who do not
complain, who work hard for low wages. In other words, they want immigrants,
preferably young, illegal Hispanic males in their prime picking years.  Graham's
proposal would let employers pre-select foreign workers. The number  of older
domestic workers, including women, would fall sharply.

During an interview with the Chicago Tribune, a Georgia Vidalia onion  grower
captured the essence of American growers' contempt for domestic  workers: "If we
had a bunch of American workers, we'd have to hire someone  like a personnel
director to deal with the problems. The people we have now,  they come to work.
They don't have kids to pick up from school or to take to  the doctor. They
don't have child support issues. They don't ask to leave  early for this and
that. They don't call in sick. If you say to them, "Today  we need to work 10
hours,' they don't say anything."

Wittingly or not, Graham's bill condones such views, ensuring the continued
degradation of farm workers.

The GAO maintains that Graham's proposal, in addition to depressing wages,
would hurt workers, domestic and foreign, in four other major ways:

It would remove provisions that prevent farmers from terminating workers  based
on improper productivity standards, such as requiring a certain number  of
buckets of tomatoes during a specific length of time. It would let farmers
adopt their own standards, giving them the power to terminate workers not
meeting these standards after a three-day trial. Most farmers would use the
high productivity of young Hispanic males as the norm.

It would eliminate the provision requiring growers seeking foreign labor  to
first actively recruit in the private marketplace to attract available U.S.
workers. In place of this provision, Graham would create a federal registry
listing the names of legal farm workers. If domestic workers could not be  found
in a local registry within 14 days, growers would be permitted to import
guestworkers, which most would do.

It would not, as current law does, require growers seeking temporary  foreign
workers to provide free housing and transportation to distant  locations. It
would let them offer workers a housing "allowance," regardless  of available
alternative housing in the area. As for transportation, the bill  gives growers
no incentive to transport workers or to give them direct  transportation
allowances.

It would require that 20 percent of guestworkers' wages be withheld and
reclaimable upon the return of workers to their homelands. Schell points out
that a similar provision was used unsuccessfully in the Florida sugar  industry,
where over 30 percent of first-time temporary foreign workers  remained in the
United States illegally following the harvest. He said that  the bill also would
encourage thousands of illegals to stay here, further  glutting the labor force.

Realizing that the prospect of passing the bill was slipping because this
session of Congress is ending soon, sponsors of the proposal attached it as an
amendment to the Commerce and State and Justice Funding Bill, thus avoiding a
full floor debate. The Senate passed the measure Thursday on a vote of 68-31.
The House now has a chance to act before the bill goes to conference.  President
Clinton has said that he will veto the entire funding package.

Farm worker advocates want Clinton to single out Graham's proposal as one  of
the onerous amendments that forced his veto. Such a move, Schell said,  would be
a substantive and moral victory for the nation's most exploited work  force.

LOAD-DATE: July 28, 1998

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: BLACK AND WHITE DRAWING, DON ADDIS; A Promise Keeper who doesn't have
enough money to pay his bill at the lunch counter tells the server "I'll send
you the rest when I get home... I promise."

TYPE: COLUMN

                    Copyright 1998 Times Publishing Company


                              261 of 280 DOCUMENTS

                         St. Petersburg Times (Florida)

                              May 16, 1999, Sunday

Protect rights of guest workers

SECTION: PERSPECTIVE; EDITORIALS; Pg. 2D

LENGTH: 623 words



For a few thousand dollars and the chance to fulfill a dream of a better life,
Ana Rosa Cedillo and sisters Delia and Ceci Tovar endured six months of sore
feet, aching backs, bloodied fingers and stomach-turning stench.

The three young women from Palomas, Mexico, stood on their feet for 8 1/2 hours
a day, six days a week, at Daniels Seafood on the upper coast of North Carolina,
picking meat from the shells of blue crabs hauled from the shallow waters of
Roanoke Sound. The three women are what the American government calls "guest
workers," laborers from other countries granted temporary visas to do menial,
low-wage work in the United States.

Their grueling journey from their hot, wind-swept village in Mexico to North
Carolina and back was detailed in Una Vida Mejor, a riveting three-part series
by Times national correspondent Anne Hull that raised troubling questions about
the treatment of foreign guest workers and our government's negligence in
protecting them from exploitation.

By some measures, Ana Rosa, Ceci and Delia could be considered lucky. Though
literally "ordered" through a labor broker and shipped to the United States
where they lived in a cramped, dilapidated trailer for the duration of the blue
crab season, they were treated with a measure of respect by the owner of Daniels
Seafood. Mickey Daniels Jr. arranged for their transportation to and from work.
He obeyed labor laws. He sometimes took the women shopping. One day, he took
them to the beach.

Theirs was not the experience of thousands of other foreign guest workers, too
many of whom are treated like chattel. In 1997, the U.S. Department of Labor
allowed about 25,250 guest workers into the country. Most paid their own way
into the United States, and many were forced to live in fenced encampments once
they arrived.

One North Carolina crab house owner was sued by the American Civil Liberties
Union for withholding half of his workers' pay for rent. Another effectively
held his workers hostage by keeping their passports and visas under lock and
key. Employers frequently cheat their workers out of overtime wages, because few
foreign workers are aware of labor laws that require time-and-a-half pay for
overtime work, and they are in no position to assert their rights even if they
understand them.

Unlike immigrants who work in the agricultural sector, guest workers are
prohibited from seeking legal help from the federally funded Legal Services
Corp. In fact, when Congress learned that lawyers from the North Carolina branch
of the legal group visited migrants in Mexico to educate them about their rights
in the United States, funding for the organization was summarily yanked.

So who is looking out for the rights of foreign guest workers in the United
States? Not the Labor Department, which has done a woefully inadequate job of
forcing employers to abide by labor laws and to pay guest workers a fair wage.
Not the Occupational Safety and Health Administration, which has failed to crack
down on companies whose workers toil under unsanitary or hazardous conditions.
And certainly not the Immigration and Naturalization Service, which allows guest
workers to cross the border, but does virtually nothing to protect them once
they are here.

Ana Rosa, Ceci and Delia returned to Daniels Seafood this year for another six
months of hard work and low pay, along with another 3,000 or so Mexican women
who come each year to work the blue crab season.

It is time for the U.S. government to stop ignoring the plight of these women,
and the thousands of other guest workers who suffer daily indignities at the
hands of their employers. No person should be treated like a peon for pursuing
the dream of a better life.


LOAD-DATE: May 17, 1999

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: BLACK AND WHITE PHOTO, JOSHUA DAUTOFF; Delia Tovar shows her sister
Ceci how to take apart a crab at Daniels Seafood.

TYPE: EDITORIAL

                    Copyright 1999 Times Publishing Company


                              262 of 280 DOCUMENTS

                         St. Petersburg Times (Florida)

                 June 1, 1997, Sunday, 0 South Pinellas Edition

Farewell fiesta sends migrants back on road

BYLINE: CHARLES HOSKINSON

SECTION: CITY & STATE; Pg. 7B

LENGTH: 473 words

DATELINE: DOVER



With hot, sticky air and gray clouds threatening rain, Saturday was a day to
eat cool, juicy watermelons, not pick them.

The annual end-of-season fiesta of the Redlands Christian Migrant  Association
was a chance for the migrant workers who harvest fruits and  vegetables from
Central Florida fields in weather much like Saturday's to  relax before seeking
a new harvest farther north.

More than 100 people sat in the shade of a live oak tree in Dover District  Park
eating spicy bean soup, grilled chicken and rice. Volunteers handed out
backpacks full of school supplies to graduates from the center's preschools.

"We use these basically to get everybody together and see each other  before
they leave," said Lourdes Villanueva, area coordinator for the  association's
six migrant centers in Hillsborough and Polk counties.

With no more strawberries or oranges to pick, migrant workers based in  Florida
travel as far north as Maine and Michigan looking for summer work.

It's an annual ritual for Florida-born children of migrant workers, and  recent
immigrants from Mexico and Central America.

Most have already left the area to harvest crops ripening in fields further
north. "They just keep moving north as long as the crops become available,"
Villanueva said.

Most of those remaining for the fiesta said they were waiting for their
children to finish the school year, one of many cycles defining their lives.

"If you take them out of school here and you move them to Georgia,  sometimes
the school board doesn't want to take them 'cause it's late in the  year. It's
hard for the parents 'cause they're trying to do the best they  can," said
Dahlia Guerrero, 24.

The Dade City native became a migrant six years ago after graduating from  Plant
City High School. She works on a crew with her husband and their parents  and
cares for her two children, Jesus, 5, and Valente, 3.

They planned to leave after the fiesta for Georgia to pick vegetables for  two
months. Then it's off to Tennessee for the annual tobacco harvest,  returning to
Florida in mid-December, just in time for oranges and  strawberries.

Their lives revolve around the fields, where they work from dawn to dusk.
Guerrero describes it as a balancing act: counting every cucumber, orange,
pepper and strawberry, hoping to make enough money to meet expenses and still
get home in time for the children's return from school.

Meanwhile, their children must balance school with the need to contribute  their
labor to the family budget.

Noe Villagomez, 14, attends Tomlin Middle School in Plant City and picks
cucumbers in Ohio with his family during the summer. The money he earns buys
his school clothes and defines his chances to eventually go to college.

"It depends on how good you pick," he said.

LOAD-DATE: June 3, 1997

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DISTRIBUTION: CITY & STATE; TAMPA & STATE

GRAPHIC: BLACK AND WHITE PHOTO, KEN HELLE, (2); COLOR PHOTO, KEN HELLE; Holding
a sign are Mary Cruz Lopez, Pedro Hernandez (in hat), Ruben Munoz (behind mask)
and Ubaldo Hernandez., (ran CITY & STATE); Ruben Munoz shows his balloon muscles
to the crowd Saturday at the Redlands Christian Migrant Association's
celebration for workers in Dover.; Holding a sign are Mary Cruz Lopez, Pedro
Hernandez (in hat), Ruben Munoz (behind mask) and Ubaldo Hernandez., (ran TAMPA
& STATE)

                    Copyright 1997 Times Publishing Company


                              263 of 280 DOCUMENTS

                         St. Petersburg Times (Florida)

             January 12, 2000, Wednesday, 0 South Pinellas Edition

Senator's visit boosts farm workers

BYLINE: Bill Maxwell

SECTION: EDITORIAL; COLUMNS; Pg. 13A

LENGTH: 797 words

DATELINE: IMMOKALEE



The results of a meeting between U.S. Sen. Bob Graham, members of the Coalition
of Immokalee Workers and farm-worker advocates may have wide implications for
the nation's millions of farm workers.

In the past, Graham, a wealthy Miami Democrat, has been routinely criticized for
a lack of interest in farm-worker issues, so his visit to this tomato- and
citrus-growing community is seen as a moral and, perhaps, a political victory
for farm hands seeking higher wages and better working and living conditions.

Graham came here to listen to farm-worker grievances. But Florida's senior
senator also came to muster support among farm workers and their backers for a
bill that he and Sen. Gordon Smith of Oregon introduced in Congress in October.
Called the Agricultural Job Opportunity Benefits and Security Act of 1999, the
proposal would replace H-2A, the nation's current foreign guest-worker program.

The goal of the bill, Graham said, is to transform a heavily illegal work force
into one that is legal.

Under the new system, illegal workers could earn legal status if they satisfy
specific requirements. If the bill passes, undocumented workers would need to
spend five more years in the fields to qualify for permanent legal status. Those
who can show that they worked at least 150 days as farm hands within the last
year could immediately receive legal status as temporary nonimmigrants. Pickers
who work a minimum of 180 days annually in five of the next seven years would
qualify to apply for permanent residency. The proposal also contains modified
standards for housing, transportation and wages.

Graham claims the bill will improve the plight of both domestic and foreign
workers. But farm workers and advocates disagree, arguing that the proposal will
hurt workers. For example, Greg Schell, managing attorney for the Migrant
Justice Project in Belle Glade, said: "This bill represents an enormous step
backwards for America's workers. Florida's farmers would be guaranteed a
limitless supply of cheap foreign labor at bargain basement prices. If this bill
is adopted, all competitive incentives will be removed for Florida growers to
improve wages and benefits for farm workers."

Although Schell and others disagree with Graham, they applaud him for leaving
Washington to talk with the pickers. Area growers adamantly refuse to do so.
Before meeting with the group, Graham visited two farm-working families. At the
first home, a privately owned three-room shack, the senator was visibly moved.
The family - two adults and three children - share one bed and a couch for which
they pay $ 75 per week, in addition to water and electricity. The front door is
falling off its hinges, the ceiling is rotting away and snakes crawl inside
through holes in the walls and floor. The children, two in elementary school,
have no place to do their homework.

"These conditions are shameful," Graham said. "I don't think America can raise
its children in these kind of conditions."

The second family lived in an apartment owned by the Collier County Housing
Authority. It was spacious and clean. Graham promised to speak with growers
statewide who have developed positive relations with farm workers and develop a
model to use in Immokalee and other parts of the nation.

For nearly two hours, Graham and the coalition traded ideas, and they pledged to
meet again to discuss changes to the new guest-worker proposal. The senator
promised he would seriously consider the coalition's suggestions.

"I believe any time you're considering legislation that you need to talk to the
people who will be most directly affected," he said. "I think having a
discussion with people who have different responsibilities and different life
experiences forces you to understand how somebody else views the world. That's a
good thing, but it's not the last chapter. You have to then put that better
understanding to some useful work to improve conditions. I think there has been
a historical reluctance of farm workers, of growers, of politicians and others
involved to really sit down and understand the other person's concerns. We've
got to work through these concerns to a solution. It's not a good thing to make
laws in ignorance."

Speaking for the coalition, organizer Greg Asbed said: "We're pleased the
senator came to listen. And we also listened to his proposal. He wanted us to
hear the questions he had about the future of agriculture. And now we will see
where we go. The most important things we are calling for are a dialogue with
the growers and respect. Sen. Graham's coming here and sitting down with us in
and of itself speaks volumes."

Bill Maxwell is a columnist and editorial writer for the St. Petersburg Times.
His e-mail address is maxwell@sptimes.com.


LOAD-DATE: January 12, 2000

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: COLUMN

                    Copyright 2000 Times Publishing Company


                              264 of 280 DOCUMENTS

                         St. Petersburg Times (Florida)

              February 14, 2000, Monday, 0 South Pinellas Edition

Farm worker reform falls short

SECTION: EDITORIAL; EDITORIALS; Pg. 12A

LENGTH: 661 words



Hoping to ease a severe labor shortage in the agricultural sector during World
War II, Congress created a program that allowed American farmers and growers to
recruit guest workers from Mexico to help harvest their crops. Over the past 50
years, many of the nation's farmers have reaped the benefits of the so-called
H2-A program, which has helped them find and retain a skilled labor force. The
same cannot be said for the farm workers themselves, too many of whom have been
exploited by unscrupulous growers and crew chiefs, forced to live in inhumane
conditions and paid insulting wages for back-breaking work. Few would disagree
that the time has come for the federal government to overhaul the nation's
agricultural labor system, but an effort under way in Congress does not go far
enough to reform this deeply flawed system.

Legislation sponsored by lawmakers from several agricultural states, including
U.S. Sens. Bob Graham and Connie Mack of Florida, is being billed as a measure
that would dramatically enhance farm workers' rights and protections, while
providing farmers with a legal and reliable labor supply. In truth, the most
that can be said about the Agricultural Jobs, Opportunity, Benefits and Security
Act is that it probably would do no harm and might even improve conditions on
the margins.

The measure, which is expected to come before the Senate Judiciary Committee
this spring, might slightly improve the living and working conditions for the
nation's farm workers, particularly the 600,000 illegal agricultural workers in
the United States who are most vulnerable to exploitation by their employers.
But the bill does not guarantee that workers are paid a living wage or afforded
the protections enjoyed by American-born workers in other industries.

The proposed law would allow some un-documented farm workers - those who can
prove they worked at least 150 days in the United States during the 12-month
period prior to the introduction of the legislation - to become what the bill
classifies as "temporary non-immigrants." Workers in that classification willing
to stay in agricultural jobs for a minimum of 180 days a year for an additional
five of seven years would earn the right to become legal permanent residents.

The legislation requires farmers to pay all H2-A workers the prevailing industry
wage, plus a raise of up to 5 percent of that prevailing wage. The measure also
requires employers to provide workers housing, or pay a housing allowance, and
to provide transportation to and from work. Finally, the bill provides more
money for enforcement and slightly tougher penalties for growers who break the
law.

Critics of the bill, who include some, but not all, advocates for farm workers,
argue that many of the bill's purported benefits are not as generous as they
appear at first glance. They say the wage increase is illusory and question the
U.S. Department of Labor's methods for calculating it. They also say the housing
allowance is far too low. In Florida, for example, the housing allowance for the
average farm worker would be roughly $ 150 per month, well-below the cost of a
decent home or apartment anywhere in the state.

Opponents also characterize the program that would allow some undocumented
workers to achieve legal status as a "false amnesty." They say that a surplus of
migrant labor, particularly in Southern states, makes it impossible for many
workers to be on the job for a full 180 days in any given year. As a result, few
would actually qualify for permanent status. Critics also say the punishments
for law-breakers still are too weak to have a deterrent effect.

Graham said he is willing to meet with farm workers and their advocates to
discuss wages, housing, working conditions and other issues where there is
disagreement. Despite its strong bipartisan support, the legislation does not do
enough to protect farm workers from the abuses or to improve their quality of
life.


LOAD-DATE: February 15, 2000

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: EDITORIAL

                    Copyright 2000 Times Publishing Company


                              265 of 280 DOCUMENTS

                         St. Petersburg Times (Florida)

                  March 19, 2000, Sunday, 2 Late Tampa Edition

Tenant alleges abuse by deputy

BYLINE: DAVID PEDREIRA

SECTION: TAMPA & STATE; Pg. 1B

LENGTH: 1269 words

DATELINE: WIMAUMA



A Hillsborough deputy who is landlord at a mobile home park is accused of
beating a migrant worker.

Ancelmo Castillo-Badillo and Rudy Robledo were watching television on a rare day
off when, they say, the sheriff's deputies arrived.

Two of them walked into the dilapidated mobile home without knocking, the men
say, their guns drawn.

One was their landlord, Deputy Charles D. Maye.

In the next few minutes, Maye shoved Castillo against a wall, put a gun to his
head, punched him several times, knocked him to the floor, stomped on his elbow
and handcuffed him, the men say. A third roommate, Reynaldo Gutierrez, said he
witnessed the incident.

Maye and two other deputies had apparently pegged Castillo as a suspect in the
shooting of another migrant worker on the morning of Nov. 20, sheriff's records
show, because he drove a van similar to one used during the crime.

When witnesses to the shooting told Maye he had the wrong man, the deputy
apologized and slipped $ 60 into the Mexican immigrant's pocket, Castillo said.

"Since that day, I live in fear because I feel he's been checking on me," said
Castillo, 40. "I'm afraid something might happen to me."

Internal affairs detectives at the sheriff's office already are investigating
Maye's side job as a landlord at Mi Amigo's camp, where he rents 25 single-wide
mobile homes to migrant laborers, who pay weekly rent totaling as much as $ 960
a month. Health inspectors in January found problems at the camp, including
broken screens and windows and holes in the walls of some of the homes.

Maye's tenants say he often does his landlord work in his sheriff's uniform,
with his gun on his hip, and can be an intimidating force at the dusty Wimauma
camp.

While Maye's boss said the deputy is not supposed to handle any law enforcement
work at Mi Amigo's, sheriff's records show the deputy has done so at least four
times in the past year, including the morning of Nov. 20.

Twice, Maye responded to 911 calls that ended up being dismissed as
non-emergencies. Earlier this month, he drove his cruiser to the camp while on
duty and threatened to arrest a St. Petersburg Times reporter and a mission
worker, saying they were trespassing.

Sgt. Rod Reder, a spokesman for the sheriff's office, said there is no evidence

 that Maye came into contact with Castillo on  Nov. 20.

Records filed by deputies who first responded to the 7:15 a.m. shooting show
Castillo was an early suspect. Dispatch logs show Maye and two other deputies
were called to the camp on a report that the suspect's van had pulled up at
trailer No. 8, the unit Castillo rents.

No complaint of excessive force was ever filed.

"If there are allegations like that, we would encourage them to contact our
internal affairs office so we can conduct a thorough investigation," Reder said.

Maye, who was transferred to a different patrol area in southern Hillsborough
after the Times reported on his work as a landlord last week, was on sick leave
and could not be reached for comment.

Sheriff's records of the Nov. 20 shooting investigation at Mi Amigo's show Maye
did more than simply respond to the scene.

Patrol logs list Maye as the primary officer when he and two other deputies
investigated the report that the suspect had reappeared at Mi Amigo's. Maye and
the two backup officers arrived at the camp between 10:14 a.m. and 10:34 a.m.,
records show.

But Maye did not report he was done with the call until 12:10 p.m, nearly 1 1/2
hours after the other two officers told dispatchers they were leaving the camp.

Records also show it was Maye who later told a detective investigating the case
that the man who was shot, 33-year-old Amalondo Gonzalez, "did not wish to
pursue criminal charges." Gonzalez is one of Maye's tenants. He lives just a few
doors down from Castillo.

Detective Wayne Lopez asked Maye to have Gonzalez call him to confirm he wanted
the case dropped.

Lopez sent Gonzalez a letter but didn't hear from him for 19 days. He
recommended the case be closed. It was.

Maye never filed a report about the two hours he spent at the camp on Nov. 20.
The only record of his presence came from dispatch logs.

The deputies who responded with Maye, Cpl. Kenneth Escobio and deputy Nicholas
Matos, also did not file reports.

Matos said Friday he had been advised by sheriff's officials not to discuss the
case because Maye is under investigation. Escobio could not be reached for
comment.

Castillo, Robledo and Gutierrez say the official file tells only a fragment of
the story.

The three men, who came to Florida from Mexico to earn money picking fruit and
vegetables and doing odd jobs, say they were lounging in their mobile home at Mi
Amigo's on a quiet Saturday morning, tired from working in the vegetable fields
of Manatee and Hillsborough counties all week.

Gutierrez was lying on a bed in the living room. Castillo and Robledo were
watching a video in the bedroom.

At about 10:30 a.m., Maye and another deputy entered the home without knocking,
the men said.

Castillo and Robledo say they heard a noise and went to investigate. Maye
grabbed Castillo when he walked into the living room and threw him against the
wall, yelling "La pistola, La pistola." He wanted to know the location of the
gun used in the shooting, Castillo said.

After seeing Maye punch and kick Castillo several times and hold a gun to his
temple, Robledo says, he fled to the bedroom. Gutierrez pretended he was asleep
just a few feet away.

"I just tried to hide myself with a blanket, but I saw everything," Gutierrez
said through an interpreter.

Maye eventually handcuffed Castillo and took him to mobile home No. 2, where the
shooting occurred, the men said. The laborers who lived there said Castillo was
not the gunman.

After uncuffing Castillo, Maye took him to a trailer in the back of the park
that serves as an office, Castillo said. There, Maye apologized, speaking
through a Spanish-speaker who works for him, and slipped something into
Castillo's jeans.

"I was so scared I didn't even look in my pocket for a while," Castillo said.
When he got back to his mobile home, he said he found $ 60 in his pocket.

Deputies later determined the likely suspect in the shooting was another tenant
at the camp who drove a brown van similar to Castillo's. He was never
apprehended.

Castillo's story of being beaten by his landlord spread quickly through the
mobile home park. The next day, several tenants urged him to talk to a lawyer or
file a complaint.

Castillo said he was afraid to report the incident to the sheriff's office
because his landlord is a sheriff's deputy.

"I thought they weren't going to believe me," he said. "I thought maybe they
would beat me again."

Instead, he went to the Good Samaritan Mission in Balm. Castillo told mission
worker Laura Cruz what happened and showed her cuts and bruises.

Cruz said she tried to retain several attorneys, but they didn't want to take
the case. She didn't think filing a complaint with the sheriff's office would do
any good.

"I never thought of talking to the police," Cruz said. "The first thing that
came to my mind was, they were going to hide it."

Reder said that wouldn't happen. "The Sheriff's Office would not tolerate
behavior like that, if it did occur."

Castillo, whose wife and two children are in Mexico, said a migrant worker has
little chance of receiving justice in the United States.

"If I was in Mexico, I would have gone to a lawyer myself," he said. "It's not
fair what happened to me."

- David Pedreira can be reached at (813) 226-3463 or pedreira@sptimes.com.


LOAD-DATE: March 20, 2000

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DISTRIBUTION: TAMPA & STATE

GRAPHIC: COLOR PHOTO, MIKE PEASE; Ancelmo Castillo-Badillo and Reynaldo
Gutierrez.

                    Copyright 2000 Times Publishing Company


                              266 of 280 DOCUMENTS

                         St. Petersburg Times (Florida)

                March 19, 2000, Sunday, 0 South Pinellas Edition

Tenant alleges abuse by deputy

BYLINE: DAVID PEDREIRA

SECTION: CITY & STATE; Pg. 1B

LENGTH: 1284 words

DATELINE: RUSKIN



A Hillsborough deputy who is landlord at a mobile home park is accused of
beating a migrant worker.

Ancelmo Castillo-Badillo and Rudy Robledo were watching television on a rare day
off when, they say, the sheriff's deputies arrived.

Two of them walked into the dilapidated mobile home without knocking, the men
say, their guns drawn.

One was their landlord, Hillsborough Deputy Charles D. Maye.

In the next few minutes, Maye shoved Castillo against a wall, put a gun to his
head, punched him several times, knocked him to the floor, stomped on his elbow
and handcuffed him, the men say. A third roommate, Reynaldo Gutierrez, said he
witnessed the incident.

Maye and two other deputies apparently had pegged Castillo as a suspect in the
shooting of another migrant worker on the morning of Nov. 20, sheriff's records
show, because he drove a van similar to one used during the crime.

When witnesses to the shooting told Maye he had the wrong man, the deputy
apologized and slipped $ 60 into the Mexican immigrant's pocket, Castillo said.

"Since that day, I live in fear because I feel he's been checking on me," said
Castillo, 40. "I'm afraid something might happen to me."

Internal affairs detectives at the Sheriff's Office already are investigating
Maye's side job as a landlord at Mi Amigo's camp, where he rents 25 single-wide
mobile homes to migrant laborers, who pay weekly rent that totals as much as $
960 a month. Health inspectors in January found problems at the camp, including
broken screens and windows and holes in the walls of some of the homes.

Maye's tenants say he often does his landlord work in his sheriff's uniform,
with his gun on his hip, and can be an intimidating force at the dusty camp in
the south Hillsborough community of Wimauma.

While Maye's boss said the deputy is not supposed to handle any law enforcement
work at Mi Amigo's, sheriff's records show the deputy has done so at least four
times in the past year, including the morning of Nov. 20.

Twice, Maye responded to 911 calls that ended up being dismissed as
non-emergencies. Earlier this month, he drove his cruiser to the camp while on
duty and threatened to arrest a St. Petersburg Times reporter and a mission
worker, saying they were trespassing.

No complaint filed

Sgt. Rod Reder, a sheriff's spokesman, said there is no evidence on file that
Maye came into contact with Castillo on Nov. 20.

Records filed by deputies who first responded to the 7:15 a.m. shooting show
Castillo was an early suspect. Dispatch logs show Maye and two other deputies
were called to the camp on a report that the suspect's van had pulled up at
trailer No. 8, the unit Castillo rents.

No complaint of excessive force was ever filed.

"If there are allegations like that, we would encourage them to contact our
internal affairs office so we can conduct a thorough investigation," Reder said.

Maye, who was transferred to a different patrol area in southern Hillsborough
after the Times reported on his work as a landlord last week, was on sick leave
and could not be reached for comment.

Sheriff's records of the Nov. 20 shooting investigation at Mi Amigo's show Maye
did more than simply respond to the scene.

Patrol logs list Maye as the primary officer when he and two other deputies
investigated the report that the suspect had reappeared at Mi Amigo's. Maye and
the two backup officers arrived at the camp between 10:14 a.m. and 10:34 a.m.,
records show.

But Maye did not report he was done with the call until 12:10 p.m, nearly 1 1/2
hours after the other two officers told dispatchers they were leaving the camp.

Records also show it was Maye who later told a detective investigating the case
that the man who was shot, 33-year-old Amalondo Gonzalez, "did not wish to
pursue criminal charges." Gonzalez is one of Maye's tenants. He lives just a few
doors down from Castillo.

Detective Wayne Lopez asked Maye to have Gonzalez call him to confirm he wanted
the case dropped. Lopez sent Gonzalez a letter but didn't hear from him for 19
days. He recommended the case be closed. It was.

Maye never filed a report about the two hours he spent at the camp on Nov. 20.
The only record of his presence came from dispatch logs.

The deputies who responded with Maye, Cpl. Kenneth Escobio and Deputy Nicholas
Matos, also did not file reports.

Matos said Friday he had been advised by sheriff's officials not to discuss the
case because Maye is under investigation. Escobio could not be reached for
comment.

Migrant worker's story

Castillo, Robledo and Gutierrez say the official file tells only a fragment of
the story.

The three men, who came to Florida from Mexico to earn money picking fruit and
vegetables and doing odd jobs, say they were lounging in their mobile home at Mi
Amigo's on a quiet Saturday morning.

Gutierrez was lying on a bed in the living room. Castillo and Robledo were
watching a video in the bedroom.

At about 10:30 a.m., Maye and another deputy entered the home without knocking,
the men said.

Castillo and Robledo say they heard a noise and went to investigate. Maye
grabbed Castillo when he walked into the living room and threw him against the
wall, yelling "La pistola, La pistola." He wanted to know the location of the
gun used in the shooting, Castillo said.

After seeing Maye punch and kick Castillo several times and hold a gun to his
temple, Robledo says he fled to the bedroom. Gutierrez pretended he was asleep
just a few feet away.

"I just tried to hide myself with a blanket, but I saw everything," Gutierrez
said through an interpreter.

Maye eventually handcuffed Castillo and took him to mobile home No. 2, where the
shooting occurred, the men said. The laborers who lived there said Castillo was
not the gunman.

After uncuffing Castillo, Maye took him to a mobile home in the back of the park
that serves as an office, Castillo said. There, Maye apologized, speaking
through a Spanish-speaker who works for him, and slipped something into
Castillo's jeans.

"I was so scared I didn't even look in my pocket for a while," Castillo said.
When he got back to his mobile home, he said he found $ 60 in his pocket.

Deputies later determined the likely suspect in the shooting was another tenant
at the camp who drove a brown van similar to Castillo's. He was never
apprehended.

Castillo's story of being beaten by his landlord spread quickly through the
mobile home park. The next day, several tenants urged him to talk to a lawyer or
file a complaint.

Castillo, who travels from the Midwest to Georgia to Florida every year in
search of work, said he was afraid to report the incident to the Sheriff's
Office because his landlord is a sheriff's deputy.

"I thought they weren't going to believe me," he said. "I thought maybe they
would beat me again."

Instead, he went to the Good Samaritan Mission in Balm. Castillo told mission
worker Laura Cruz what happened and showed her cuts and bruises.

Cruz said she tried to retain several attorneys, but they didn't want to take
the case. She didn't think filing a complaint with the Sheriff's Office would do
any good.

"I never thought of talking to the police," Cruz said. "The first thing that
came to my mind was, they were going to hide it."

Reder said that wouldn't happen.

"The Sheriff's Office would not tolerate behavior like that, if it did occur,"
Reder said. "Honestly, I've never heard anything like this since I've been
here."

Castillo, whose wife and two children are in Mexico, said an immigrant worker
has little chance of receiving justice in the United States.

"If I was in Mexico, I would have gone to a lawyer myself," he said. "It's not
fair what happened to me."


LOAD-DATE: March 20, 2000

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: BLACK AND WHITE PHOTO, MIKE PEASE; Ancelmo Castillo-Badillo and
Reynaldo Gutierrez.

                    Copyright 2000 Times Publishing Company


                              267 of 280 DOCUMENTS

                         St. Petersburg Times (Florida)

             February 19, 1998, Thursday, 0 South Pinellas Edition

Give back the food stamps

SECTION: EDITORIAL; EDITORIALS; Pg. 16A

LENGTH: 321 words



Last year Washington left the job of mending the welfare safety net for legal
immigrants unfinished. President Clinton persuaded Congress to restore  Medicaid
and Supplemental Security Income benefits to some immigrants who lost  them
under the most onerous provisions of the 1996 welfare reform laws. Now  the
president is asking lawmakers to give back food stamps, too. Congress  should
grant this reasonable request and repair the rest of the damage done by  their
wrong-headed restrictions.

 Even though legal immigrants represented only 6 percent of those  receiving
public assistance, Congress forced them to bear the brunt of welfare  cuts. The
president, to his credit, has led a continuous effort to restore a  sense of
fairness to the reform process, and his $ 1.73-trillion 1999 budget is  no
exception. Clinton has called for spending $ 535-million to restore food  stamp
benefits to immigrant families with children, and elderly and disabled
immigrants, if they entered the United States before the welfare reform was
signed.

Even states such as Florida, New York and California, which made the humane
decision to assist some immigrants who lost federal food stamp benefits, have
been able to meet only a small portion of the need. In Florida, about 52,000
immigrants lost food stamp benefits when the legislation took effect in  August.
State officials estimate no more than 15,000 will be eligible for  state
assistance to pay for food.

Legal immigrants pay taxes, serve in the military and have many of the same
obligations to this country as people who were born here. They deserve a hand
if they fall on hard times. After prodding by the president, Congress  corrected
many of the cruelest provisions of the welfare reforms it passed two  years ago.
It's time for lawmakers to finish the job by restoring food stamp  benefits to
immigrants who need them to eat.

LOAD-DATE: February 20, 1998

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: EDITORIAL

                    Copyright 1998 Times Publishing Company


                              268 of 280 DOCUMENTS

                         St. Petersburg Times (Florida)

              January 30, 1999, Saturday, 0 South Pinellas Edition

Restore help for legal immigrants

SECTION: EDITORIAL; EDITORIALS; Pg. 18A

LENGTH: 315 words



Slowly but surely, President Clinton has persuaded Congress to blunt the cruelty
of the 1996 welfare reform that stripped most legal immigrants of Medicaid, food
stamps and other federal benefits. Now the president is asking Congress to
finish the job.

The president is proposing a five-year, $ 1.3-billion program to close the
remaining gaps in medical and food stamp benefits for legal immigrants that
opened with the overhaul of the welfare system three years ago.

The proposal builds on previous efforts to provide a safety net for the hundreds
of thousands of people who lost coverage when Clinton capitulated to the
Republican-led Congress and agreed to eliminate the benefits at a savings of $
20-billion.

Clinton's latest proposal would extend Supplemental Security Income benefits,
Medicaid and food stamps to most immigrants who entered the country after the
welfare law was enacted, and would give states the option of providing health
coverage to immigrant children and prenatal care to women.

Legal immigrants represented only 6 percent of those receiving public assistance
at the time the welfare law was enacted. But they were forced to bear the brunt
of the cuts because, as a constituency that cannot vote, they were an easy
target for lawmakers looking for a group to scapegoat for the economic
uncertainty of the early 1990s.

States such as Florida, New York and California, which made the humane decision
to provide some relief to immigrants abandoned by the federal government, have
been unable to meet the need fully.

With the economy now booming, there is no excuse for the inequity and hardship
caused by the harsh provisions of the welfare overhaul to continue.

Like people born in the United States, most legal immigrants work for an honest
wage, pay taxes and make myriad contributions to this country. They deserve a
hand when times get tough.


LOAD-DATE: January 30, 1999

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: EDITORIAL

                    Copyright 1999 Times Publishing Company


                              269 of 280 DOCUMENTS

                         St. Petersburg Times (Florida)

             February 20, 1999, Saturday, 0 South Pinellas Edition

Privacy in peril

SECTION: EDITORIAL; EDITORIALS; Pg. 18A

LENGTH: 537 words



Secret Service involvement with a company buying Florida driver's license photos
indicates a plan for a national ID was in the works.

Maybe the development of a national data base of Americans' driver's license
photos wasn't a government plot, but it was government funded.

According to the Washington Post, the federal government gave a New
Hampshire-based company buying up state driver's license photos nearly $
1.5-million in taxpayer money and technical assistance from the Secret Service
last year. The idea was to assist in the creation of a nationwide picture ID
system that could aid federal law enforcement in combating terrorism and
immigration fraud.

Yet, the firm receiving this largess, Image Data Corp., is the same one that was
sold 14-million Florida driver's license photos for a penny each after assuring
Florida legislators that the pictures would be used solely to prevent retail
check and credit card fraud.

Apparently the company always intended a broader use for its product. A 1997
letter

from eight members of Congress to Sen. Ben Nighthorse Campbell, R-Colo.,
chairman of the Appropriations Committee panel responsible for the Secret
Service, lauds the potential of the new Image Data Corp. ID technology for
airport security and Immigration and Naturalization Service uses.

Privacy concerns seem to be irrelevant in our nation's capital. Underwriting the
development of a nationwide picture ID system is just another example of the
government's enlisting private business to perform an invasive policing
function. The picture ID system's intrusiveness is on a par with the proposed
Know Your Customer rules that would require banks to spy on their customers and
report any financial transactions that are out of the ordinary to federal
authorities.

Creating a nationwide data base of pictures, coupled with names, addresses and
Social Security numbers that would be immediately accessible to federal law
enforcement agencies, would destroy one of the last vestiges of privacy we have.
It would function in effect as a national picture ID system, the very sort of
data base that the federal government has been stymied from developing itself
because of privacy concerns.

When lobbying state legislatures for access to motor vehicle picture files,
Image Data Corp. coyly did not disclose its public funding or its collaboration
with the Secret Service. Marketed as a retail fraud prevention system, the
company was able to purchase more than 22-million driver's license photos from
Colorado, South Carolina and Florida. However, since newspaper reports about the
sales emerged, public pressure has led all three states to backtrack, with each
trying to cancel their contracts or force the return of any photos transferred.

Florida Gov. Jeb Bush on Feb. 1 voided the state's contract with Image Data
Corp. He said he was "personally not comfortable with the state mandating
license photos for the purpose of identifying authorized drivers and then
selling those photos at a profit for a completely different purpose."

Now Bush has another reason to bar the sale of these photos and call for the
repeal of the law allowing such sales - the Secret Service's prying agenda.


LOAD-DATE: February 20, 1999

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: EDITORIAL

                    Copyright 1999 Times Publishing Company


                              270 of 280 DOCUMENTS

                         St. Petersburg Times (Florida)

                July 2, 1996, Tuesday, 0 South Pinellas Edition

Cuban boxers seek asylum in the U.S.

SOURCE: Compiled from Wire Reports

SECTION: SPORTS; OLYMPICS; Pg. 3C

LENGTH: 340 words

DATELINE: SAN DIEGO



Just weeks before they would represent Cuba at the Olympics, two champion
boxers applied for asylum Monday, becoming political rather than athletic
symbols.

"This was a purely political decision," said Al Rogers, a spokesman for  the law
firm representing Ramon Garbey and Joel Casamayor, both 22. "They  very easily
could have won the gold and then defected, but they chose not to  fight Castro's
war."

Garbey and Casamayor slipped away last week during free time while the
12-member Cuban team was training in Mexico.

For the past few days the boxers worked closely with Frank Ronzio, an
immigration attorney and boxing manager. They met in a hotel in the border  city
of Tijuana, Mexico, to discuss their options, Rogers said.

The only snag came Sunday night when the men appeared at the San Ysidro  port of
entry to turn themselves in and the office did not have an asylum  officer on
duty, according to Rogers.

The boxers were told they could return to their hotel room in Tijuana and
appear at the port the next morning, but they declined. Immigration officials
then took them to the processing center in El Centro, Calif., 115 miles away.

SWIMMING: A request for disciplinary action that could have placed Ron  Karnaugh
on the U.S. team was rejected by the USOC in the first test of its  new conduct
code. Karnaugh, sixth in the 200-meter individual medley in the  1992 Olympics,
asked the USOC to penalize Greg Burgess for alcohol-related  offenses last
March. After eight hours of interviews with Jacksonville police,  USOC executive
director Dick Schultz told Karnaugh no further action was  warranted against
Burgess.

EVEN AT THE VARSITY: Even the Varsity, Atlanta's epicurean shrine, is  jacking
up prices. The Varsity has opened an outlet in Centennial Gateway. A  plain hot
dog would cost $ 1.22 at the chain's handful of locations. At its new  location,
a dog costs $ 2. Add chili and cheese and the bill surges to $ 4,  compared with
the $ 1.60 at the permanent restaurants.

LOAD-DATE: July 3, 1996

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: BLACK AND WHITE PHOTO, Associated Press; Scottie Pippen of the Bulls
signs an autograph for 9-year-old Derek Assaf after a Dream Team practice in
Chicago.

TYPE: DIGEST

                    Copyright 1996 Times Publishing Company


                              271 of 280 DOCUMENTS

                         St. Petersburg Times (Florida)

               July 31, 1996, Wednesday, 0 South Pinellas Edition

Reform's cost to Florida

SECTION: EDITORIAL; EDITORIALS; Pg. 10A

LENGTH: 452 words



President Clinton should veto the latest welfare reform bill for any number  of
good reasons. Here is one that should be of particular concern to Florida:  the
cost to states of denying federal benefits to legal immigrants.

Most legal immigrants will find themselves ineligible for food stamps, Aid  to
Families with Dependent Children, Medicaid and the cash payments many  receive
under Supplemental Security Income. Congress sees a savings of  $ 25-billion to
$ 30-billion over seven years in cutting off legal immigrants.  That makes up
about half of the savings from welfare reform.

When the federal government stops its aid, the needs of those legal  residents
who are not yet citizens will continue. Who will pay for the ones  too old or
too sick to work and without family to take care of them? State and  local
governments. For states like Florida with large populations of legal
immigrants, the cost will be substantial.

Sen. Bob Graham, who voted against the Senate's version of welfare reform,
urged his colleagues to retain benefits for legal immigrants. He figures the
cost of the unfunded mandate to Florida in food stamps alone is $ 129-million a

 year. "By banning access to these programs by legal immigrants, the federal
government shrugs off its responsibilities and places those burdens squarely  on
the shoulders of state and local governments," Graham said.

Florida is home to 77,000 legal aliens who receive SSI, the third largest
number in the nation. Federal estimates show 60 percent of those recipients  are
older than 75. These immigrants will lose their benefits unless they  become
citizens, which takes an average about five years, or complete 10 years  of
qualified work. Those choices will not help aged immigrants. Cost to  Florida:
more than $ 24-million a year.

Gov. Lawton Chiles' office says the welfare reform bill will gut Florida's
Cuban-Haitian refugee program that deals with parolees. That means a loss of  $
60-million annually in federal dollars.

State officials do not know the total cost to Florida of the federal  government
denying benefits to legal immigrants. But a look at the above items  shows it is
substantial. Add to that the administrative costs of determining  and keeping
track of who is eligible for what program.

A constant cry in the push for reform has been to give power and  responsibility
to the states. They can spend less because they know where the  need is; they
will use the dollars more efficiently. But in the case of legal  immigrants, the
federal government made the decision and cut the money,  leaving the states with
the ensuing financial mess and escalating human  misery.

LOAD-DATE: August 1, 1996

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: EDITORIAL

                    Copyright 1996 Times Publishing Company


                              272 of 280 DOCUMENTS

                         St. Petersburg Times (Florida)

             September 10, 1996, Tuesday, 0 South Pinellas Edition

Advocate fears for aged immigrants

BYLINE: CAROL MARBIN MILLER

SECTION: CITY & STATE; Pg. 1B

LENGTH: 738 words



The national welfare reform law, intended to force longtime welfare  recipients
off the dole and into the work force, also could force thousands of  aged legal
immigrants out of nursing homes and onto the streets, elderly  advocates warn.

By denying public assistance to immigrants who entered the country legally  but
have not sought citizenship, the welfare reform bill signed last month  places
2,331 elderly Floridians at risk of losing the money that pays their  nursing
home bills, said E. Bentley Lipscomb, who heads the Florida Department  of Elder
Affairs.

"If they come out of nursing homes, they're not going to live," Lipscomb  said
Monday. "They're not in nursing homes because they're in good shape.  We're
talking about a life-and-death situation here."

In Dade County alone, 1,700 legal immigrants pay their long-term care bill
through Medicaid, the federal program for the poor. Palm Beach County is next
with 102, Lipscomb said. Hillsborough County is third, with 101 legal
immigrants paying for institutional care through Medicaid.

Sixty legal immigrants in Pinellas face a denial of benefits, six in Pasco,
seven in Hernando, six in Citrus, three in Manatee and 22 in Sarasota, records
show.

Under the welfare reform bill, states can choose to continue to provide
Medicaid payments to legal immigrants, said Joan Alker, assistant director of
government affairs for the Families U.S.A. Foundation in Washington. If they
do, the federal government will continue to pay a matching grant.

However, the federal government will no longer provide payments under  Social
Security's Supplemental Security Income program, Alker said. "The bill  does not
automatically kick you off Medicaid," she said. "But it does  automatically kick
you off (Social Security), which is the way a lot of people  have qualified for
Medicaid."

Indeed, Lipscomb said, the vast majority of the elderly who now reside in
nursing homes qualified for Medicaid by virtue of already receiving
Supplemental Security Income benefits. And Lipscomb said he lacks confidence
state lawmakers will decide to continue paying Medicaid for those who are not
forced out because of losing their SSI.

"Do you have a vivid mental picture of the state government picking up the  tab
for the federal government?" Lipscomb asked. "Why should the state of  Florida
pick up the tab for the federal government? We didn't invite these  people to
come to Florida.

"The state Legislature does not have a huge surplus of money sitting there  that
they're looking for ways to spend."

What's the worst-case scenario? If Florida gets stuck paying the nursing  home
bills of all 2,331 legal immigrants now in institutions, the cost could  be as
high as $ 83-million, Lipscomb said.

The welfare reform bill is intended to save $ 55-billion over six years by
scrapping a social safety net created in the New Deal. Roughly $ 25-billion to
$ 30-billion of that saving is expected to come from denying entitlements to
legal immigrants.

Florida is home to more legal immigrants receiving Supplemental Security  Income
than all but two states, with 77,960 residing here, according to  records from
the Florida Agency for Health Care Administration. Of those,  50,040 qualify
because they are aged, and another 27,920 qualify because they  are disabled.

On Aug. 23, the day after President Clinton signed the welfare reform bill,
U.S. Attorney General Janet Reno said immigrants who lose public assistance
still may be eligible for some community services so long as the service "is
necessary for protection of life or safety."

While Reno's order includes such things as crisis counseling, shelters for  the
homeless, soup kitchens and substance abuse treatment as meeting that
definition, she fails to mention nursing homes, records show.

LuMarie Polivka-West, a spokeswoman for the Florida Health Care  Association,
said nursing homes administrators who belong to the association  are very
concerned the new law could be disastrous for elderly immigrants.

"It's going to be a real concern if this estimated number is a reality,"
Polivka-West said. "These are very dependent, elderly disabled people who are
in need of long-term care or wouldn't be there - but are legal immigrants,"  she
said. "Who of all of us can't say we aren't of such roots coming into  this
country?"

LOAD-DATE: September 11, 1996

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DISTRIBUTION: CITY & STATE; METRO & STATE; TAMPA & STATE

GRAPHIC: BLACK AND WHITE PHOTO; E. Bentley Lipscomb (ran CITY & STATE, METRO &
STATE)

                    Copyright 1996 Times Publishing Company


                              273 of 280 DOCUMENTS

                         St. Petersburg Times (Florida)

                           September 15, 1996, Sunday

Don't abandon elderly immigrants

SECTION: PERSPECTIVE; EDITORIALS; Pg. 2D

LENGTH: 456 words



The new federal welfare reform law severely cuts benefits for Florida's legal
immigrants, with restrictions appearing as mean in spirit as they are onerous
in effect. Low-income legal immigrants will no longer receive federal
Supplemental Security Income benefits to help them get by or food stamp
payments to help them eat. Concerned state officials are now struggling to get
answers from the feds as to how the law will actually work. But while the dust
settles, they must take care not to unnecessarily alarm immigrants who rely on
state benefits for their very survival.

E. Bentley Lipscomb, the head of Florida's Department of Elder Affairs,  warned
recently that the new law might force thousands of elderly legal  immigrants out
of state nursing homes and onto the streets. Without SSI, he  reasoned, many of
the immigrants would automatically lose Medicaid - which  funds their nursing
home care - and could regain coverage only if the state  agreed to pick up the
federal government's portion of the tab. "We're talking  about a life-and-death
situation here," he said. But even Lipscomb quickly  acknowledged that questions
are plentiful while clear answers are few.

Most state Medicaid officials agree that the plight of this group of  elderly
immigrants is not yet that bleak. Under the new law, Florida has the  option of
continuing to provide Medicaid benefits to current legal immigrants  - with over
half of each such dollar still coming from the federal government.  Even when
their SSI payments stop, many of these nursing home residents would  likely be
able to re-qualify for Medicaid under other criteria.

At least through June 30, 1997, the immigrants are not in danger of losing
their nursing home care, most officials agree. "Through this fiscal year, we
have the budget to do it, and our intent is to continue to cover them. With  the
federal matching funds still in place, it is to the state's advantage to  do
so," Sally Morton, a senior Medicaid manager with the state's Agency for  Health
Care Administration, told the Times. The real question is what will  happen once
the current year's funds expire.

Come next spring, the Florida Legislature will have a telling opportunity  to
demonstrate its level of compassion for our legal immigrant residents, many  of
whom have worked and paid taxes alongside their citizen neighbors. It can
choose to keep providing Medicaid - and extend a measure of relief from the
undue harshness of welfare reform. Or it can push already penalized immigrants
further into despair and isolation.

If they choose the latter course, our state leaders - not the feds - will  be
the ones with plenty of answering to do.

LOAD-DATE: September 17, 1996

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: EDITORIAL

                    Copyright 1996 Times Publishing Company


                              274 of 280 DOCUMENTS

                         St. Petersburg Times (Florida)

               January 31, 1997, Friday, 0 South Pinellas Edition

Don't deny them

SECTION: EDITORIAL; EDITORIALS; Pg. 14A

LENGTH: 441 words



Republican governors were noticeably silent last year when Congress passed a
welfare reform law that denies most federal assistance to low-income legal
immigrants. In a welcome - if belated - awakening, some have now joined
Democrats such as Florida Gov. Lawton Chiles in speaking out against the
legislation.

The Republicans, led by Jim Edgar of Illinois and George Pataki of New  York,
are urging Congress to restore benefits for some legal immigrants,  particularly
those who cannot work because they are elderly or disabled. Under  the welfare
law, immigrants are generally ineligible for federal benefits such  as food
stamps, Medicaid and Supplemental Security Income, a form of cash  assistance
for poor people who are elderly or disabled. The restrictions will  save the
government about $ 24-billion over seven years, about 40 percent of  the total
savings expected to come from welfare reform.

At first glance, that may look like a windfall, but it will come at a heavy
human cost. The cuts also will shift hidden costs to other social services and
law enforcement agencies. According to statistics from the National Conference
of State Legislatures, 600,000 legal immigrants may lose access to Medicaid,
1-million will be ineligible for food stamps and 500,000 elderly and disabled
legal immigrants will lose SSI benefits if new welfare laws are enforced as
they are now written.

Denying these benefits needlessly punishes people who deserve a safety net  if
they fall on hard times. Legal immigrants pay taxes and are eligible to  serve
in the military. They should not be denied medical care or have to  wonder where
their next meal will come from.

Some states, including Florida, have recognized the wrong-headedness of the  new
federal law and plan to pick up the tab for some benefits that have been  cut.
It was a humane choice, but one that will strain the resources of states  that
are following this path. That may partially account for the governors'  sudden
outspokenness on the issue.

Motives aside, the governors' message is the right one. Congress clearly  needs
to revisit its decision to deny benefits to legal immigrants, especially  those
who are too old or infirm to work. President Clinton realized the error  in
signing the legislation and has promised to fight for the restoration of  some
benefits. Until now, Congress has shown little interest in working with  him.
Some lawmakers have even threatened to impose new restrictions. Continued
pressure from GOP governors may be the best hope for correcting this cruel and
short-sighted welfare provision.

LOAD-DATE: January 31, 1997

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: EDITORIAL

                    Copyright 1997 Times Publishing Company


                              275 of 280 DOCUMENTS

                         St. Petersburg Times (Florida)

              April 23, 1997, Wednesday, 0 South Pinellas Edition

Elderly immigrants in limbo

SECTION: EDITORIAL; EDITORIALS; Pg. 12A

LENGTH: 423 words



In Hollywood, gunslingers hit their target. In Washington, politicians fire
wildly at anything that moves.

The latest stray bullet hits elderly legal immigrants, who are being denied
admission to some nursing homes. Administrators are afraid that last year's
disastrous welfare reform law, which cut federal assistance to immigrants,  will
leave non-citizens unable to pay their bills.

Some nursing homes are requiring applicants to supply proof of citizenship,  or
are refusing immigrants outright. The Clinton administration and the states
should immediately clarify the rules for eligibility. Nursing homes and
hospitals cannot operate in the dark; nor should they be allowed to practice  an
illegal and intimidating form of discrimination, which threatens the right  of
elderly immigrants to appropriate and uninterrupted care.

Some responsible states, including Florida, plan to continue some benefits  for
legal immigrants and shoulder the cost. The state, for example, will  continue
Medicaid payments to the 5,000 elderly immigrants in Florida's  nursing homes.

But these decisions should not fall to lawyers, admissions directors or
government bureaucrats. Confusion has already stranded some immigrants in
public hospital beds - causing indignities, frustrating families and costing
taxpayers far more than a nursing home slot. All sides need a clear policy and
a mechanism for settling disputes.

Putting the elderly in limbo is indefensible - morally and fiscally. Rep.  E.
Clay Shaw Jr., a Fort Lauderdale Republican, said the nursing home ban was  an
unintended consequence of his welfare reform legislation. That excuse has
become a broken record. What did Shaw expect from a Republican Congress and a
Democratic president seeking re-election, who cynically treated America's
weakest as a political trading card?

Both parties are responsible for the nursing home mess, the latest  incarnation
of a welfare law that is short-sighted and spiteful. President  Clinton should
carry through with his plan to restore some benefits, and the  nation's
governors should continue to squeeze the Congress to relieve the  enormous human
costs now shifting unfairly to the states.

Meanwhile, state attorneys general, including Bob Butterworth of Florida,
should actively review nursing home applications that immigrants claim were
mishandled, or unfairly denied. Only strong action now by the states can
untangle an indecent welfare policy, and prevent even more horror stories.

LOAD-DATE: April 24, 1997

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: BLACK AND WHITE PHOTO; Rep. E. Clay Shaw Jr.

TYPE: EDITORIAL

                    Copyright 1997 Times Publishing Company


                              276 of 280 DOCUMENTS

                         St. Petersburg Times (Florida)

                 June 6, 1997, Friday, 0 South Pinellas Edition

Benefits for immigrants

SECTION: EDITORIAL; EDITORIALS; Pg. 14A

LENGTH: 423 words



One of the few bright spots in the dubious balanced budget deal between
President Clinton and congressional Republicans was the agreement to restore
federal benefits for certain elderly and disabled immigrants. Now Republicans
are reneging on that provision, and this time Democrats should not acquiesce.

The president's willingness to cut a deal at any price created this  heartless
situation in the first place. Clinton signed the welfare law last  August even
though it strips legal immigrants of Supplemental Security Income,  which
provides cash assistance to the indigent elderly and the disabled, and
Medicaid, which provides health coverage to the poor. He pledged to restore
some of the benefits, and the balanced budget agreement is a modest attempt to
do that.

Now Republicans, including Rep. Clay Shaw of Fort Lauderdale, are refusing  to
hold up their end of the bargain. The budget deal calls for restoring SSI  and
Medicaid eligibility to legal immigrants who were in the country before  the
welfare law was signed and who are already disabled or become disabled.  The
Republicans would only restore benefits to those who were receiving them  in
August. Legal immigrants who were here then and later become disabled would  be
out of luck.

That is an unacceptable approach. Shaw's comment that SSI "has become a  pension
plan for third-world countries" is particularly offensive. His own  South
Florida district stretches into Dade County, where many of Florida's  1-million
legal immigrants live. His refusal to see the inequities and  hardships the
Republican proposal would create in his own state is  inexplicable.

The Republican plan also callously inflicts pain in other ways. It would  cut
off SSI payments to any legal immigrant whose sponsor has an income that  is
more than 50 percent above the poverty level. That means a family of three  with
an income of as little as $ 18,775 a year could be forced to absorb the  total
cost of caring for an elderly or disabled immigrant. Such families  cannot
handle that responsibility without considerable difficulty. Without  federal
aid, many legal immigrants will have to turn to public hospitals and  local
governments for help.

Loaded with unnecessary tax cuts and credits, the value of the balanced  budget
agreement was questionable before Republicans started hacking away  again at
assistance for legal immigrants. The proposed changes only make it  worse, and
Clinton should make it clear they are a deal-breaker.

LOAD-DATE: June 6, 1997

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: EDITORIAL

                    Copyright 1997 Times Publishing Company


                              277 of 280 DOCUMENTS

                         St. Petersburg Times (Florida)

               June 14, 1997, Saturday, 0 South Pinellas Edition

Ruling on ex-teacher, spouse appealed

BYLINE: SUSAN ASCHOFF

SECTION: CITY & STATE; Pg. 4B

LENGTH: 325 words

DATELINE: TAMPA



Deportation of Mazen Al-Najjar and his wife cruelly ignores their plight as a
couple without a country, attorneys said in an appeal filed in court this  week.

The immigration judge erred when ordering deportation because he did not
consider the hardship and possible persecution they would face if forced to
leave the United States, the notice of appeal states. It also challenges the
ruling on several technical points of law.

Al-Najjar, a former University of South Florida teacher, has become the  most
public player in an ongoing investigation into terrorist ties to the  college.
He has been held in a Bradenton jail since he was ordered deported  May 13
because of an expired visa.

His wife, Fedaa Al-Najjar, also was ordered deported but is not being  detained.
They have lived in the United States about 12 years. Their three  young children
are American citizens.

"We believe we have sound grounds for the appeal," attorney Luis Coton  said
Friday. He and attorney Martin Schwartz, both of Tampa, represent the
Al-Najjars.

The Al-Najjars repeatedly have tried to obtain the paperwork needed to stay
here, they said, but changing politics in the Middle East have left them
without passports or travel documents.

Supporters say Al-Najjar was singled out for deportation because he managed  an
Islamic think tank at USF that federal investigators say was a front for
terrorists. A 2 1/2-year investigation into World Islamic Studies Enterprise
has brought no criminal charges.

But evidence presented by federal investigators earlier this month led an
immigration judge to deny bond for Al-Najjar. As is common practice in such
matters, Al-Najjar's attorneys were barred by law from hearing the  government's
evidence.

Al-Najjar's family and friends say he is the victim of political and  religious
prejudice.

The appeal, will take a minimum of two months and could take years, Coton  said.

LOAD-DATE: June 16, 1997

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DISTRIBUTION: CITY & STATE; METRO & STATE; TAMPA & STATE

GRAPHIC: BLACK AND WHITE PHOTO; Mazen Al-Najjar (ran City & State, Tampa &
State)

                    Copyright 1997 Times Publishing Company


                              278 of 280 DOCUMENTS

                         St. Petersburg Times (Florida)

             January 19, 2000, Wednesday, 0 South Pinellas Edition

Elian's U.S. relatives hoping suit will further delay his case

BYLINE: DAVID ADAMS; BILL ADAIR

SECTION: NATIONAL; Pg. 14A

LENGTH: 948 words

DATELINE: MIAMI



As the case of the shipwrecked 6-year-old Cuban boy, Elian Gonzalez, returns to
court today, hope of a speedy resolution to the contentious child custody battle
seems to be fading.

In a statement Tuesday, lawyers for the boy's Miami relatives said they plan to
file a federal lawsuit asking a judge to block an immigration ruling to return
Elian to his father in Cuba.

Although that effort is likely to fail, legal experts say it could buy more time
for the boy's Florida family as the case becomes further bogged down in
politics.

When Congress reconvenes Monday, Sen. Connie Mack, R-Fla., and several other
Republicans plan to introduce a bill granting the boy U.S. citizenship. This
would take Elian's fate out of the federal hands of the Immigration and
Naturalization Service and put it back into state court, where a judge already
has ruled in favor of his Florida family.

In an effort to resolve the case before Congress can intervene, the State
Department said Tuesday that it had discussed several options with Cuban
officials this week. Monday night, U.S. and Cuban officials discussed visits to
the United States by Elian's grandmothers, at least one of whom has publicly
expressed her willingness to come and collect the boy.

Elian's father has refused to come to Miami to claim his son, arguing that the
law does not require him to and that he fears intimidation from Miami's large
Cuban exile community.

Cuban officials insist that before traveling to Miami, the family must first be
given a guarantee that they will not become entangled in the U.S. legal system.

U.S. officials told the Cubans that they were not able to make that kind of
assurance.

Legal experts say a visit by one of the Cuban relatives would clearly be the
fastest way to resolve the case.

"I would hope that their presence in Miami would be clear and convincing
evidence of the Cuban family's wishes and desires," said Bernard Perlmutter, a
family law expert at the University of Miami. "The case could be resolved as it
should have been resolved - as a family to family issue."

But in Miami's current mood, that might not be so simple.

Lawyers for Elian's Miami relatives have vowed not to "surrender" the child to
anyone, if that involves the boy returning to Cuba.

In court today they are expected to argue that the INS has violated Elian's
civil rights by denying him a hearing for political asylum. The lawyers say they
have evidence to show that Elian faces persecution if returned to his communist
homeland.

But most experts say such an assertion makes no sense, given that the boy is
being hailed as a national hero in Cuba.

"It's totally specious," said David L. Ross, a Los Angeles immigration lawyer
with a national law firm. "In Cuba they are going to put his picture up next to
Che Guevara in the airport. I don't think anyone can make a case that there is
any real humanitarian reason not to send the boy home."

The lawyers' attempts to file for asylum have already been rejected twice by
INS. When Miami politicians asked Attorney General Janet Reno to review the
case, she too came down firmly on the side of INS last week.

But lawyers for the Miami relatives are expected to argue that their case has
since been bolstered by the ruling of a family court judge in Miami. In a
decision tainted by accusations of a conflict of interest, the judge accepted
the argument that Elian could suffer physical, emotional and psychological harm
if returned to Cuba.

Even so, experts say the lawsuit is unlikely to succeed.

"They are going to have a problem right at the courthouse door," Perlmutter
said. "Any civil rights action over denial of due process can only be filed
through the father. Nobody except the father has the right to speak for the
boy."

But the lawyers could still lodge an appeal with the 11th U.S. Circuit Court of
Appeals. That could take weeks or months to be heard.

That may be all the time lawyers need to carry their battle to Capitol Hill.

It's likely Mack will introduce his bill when Congress returns early next week,
but it's not clear how soon it might come up for a vote.

Congressional aides say it's too early to say whether the bill will pass because
Congress has been in recess for two months. Senators and representatives have
not been polled by party leaders.

Mack said last week that his bill would assure the decision whether to send the
boy back will be "made outside the realm of politics."

So far, debate about the boy has largely been along partisan lines. Many
Republicans say the boy should stay in this country, using the issue to take a
strong stand against communism and Cuban leader Fidel Castro.

"Some politicians and Cuban-Americans are so blinded by their hatred of Fidel
Castro that they are unable to see the needs of this little boy," said Rep.
Janice Schakowsky, D-Ill.

Polls show that a "silent majority" of Americans feel the boy should be returned
to his father, she said. Once that becomes clear to Congress, Schakowsky hopes
"there are enough people on both sides of the aisle that will understand this is
a separate debate from Fidel Castro."

Others are skeptical. "This is all a charade," said Ira Kurzban, a Miami
immigration lawyer and critic of U.S. policy toward Cuba. "It's all a stalling
process to wait until next Monday."

Far from taking the issue out of the political realm, Kurzban said, Mack's bill
will mark the end of any chance of deciding the boy's case on its merits.

"This is an election year," he said. "The Republicans want to put this bill on
Clinton's desk and see if he sends the boy back to Cuba. They know the president
doesn't have the fortitude to veto it."


LOAD-DATE: January 19, 2000

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: BLACK AND WHITE PHOTO; Elian Gonzalez

                    Copyright 2000 Times Publishing Company


                              279 of 280 DOCUMENTS

                         St. Petersburg Times (Florida)

             February 23, 2000, Wednesday, 0 South Pinellas Edition

New judge picked in Elian's case

SOURCE: Compiled from Times Wires

SECTION: NATIONAL; Pg. 4A

LENGTH: 351 words

DATELINE: MIAMI



A new judge was assigned to the Elian Gonzalez case Tuesday after the previous
one was hospitalized with a stroke.

U.S. District Judge K. Michael Moore was randomly picked by computer and will
meet the schedule set by his predecessor, U.S. District Judge William Hoeveler,
to begin hearing the case the week of March 6.

Hoeveler had planned to hold a hearing Tuesday on whether the court has
jurisdiction in the case, but the arguments were postponed after he suffered a
mild stroke over the weekend. A new date for Moore to hear those arguments was
not immediately set.

Elian, 6, is at the center of a custody battle between relatives in Miami and
his father in Cuba, who wants him returned. At immediate issue is whether the
federal court can intervene in the decision by the Immigration and
Naturalization Service to send him back.

Elian's father, Juan Miguel Gonzalez, has asked U.S. Attorney General Janet Reno
to move the boy to the Miami home of Manuel Gonzalez, a relative who favors
returning Elian to Cuba. Immigration officials have denied the request, saying
it would be too disruptive for the boy.

Manuel Gonzalez appeared in court Tuesday with lawyers who filed a motion on his
behalf asking for custody of Elian.

Moore, the new judge, was director of the U.S. Marshals Service in Washington
when he was appointed to the federal bench by President Bush in 1992.

In other legal moves in the case Tuesday:

SUPREME COURT: The U.S. Supreme Court stayed out of the dispute. The justices
rejected the unusual appeal of an Arizona man who had urged them to order that
Elian be sent home. Robert Hirschfeld, a disbarred Phoenix lawyer, bypassed
lower federal courts in directly urging the justices to "cut short" the
political dispute over the boy.

ACLU: The American Civil Liberties Union filed a friend-of-the-court brief,
asking the court to reject arguments on both sides and respect the principle
that parents have a constitutional right to custody of their children.

- Information from the Associated Press, Cox News Service and Houston Chronicle
was used in this report.


LOAD-DATE: February 23, 2000

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                    Copyright 2000 Times Publishing Company


                              280 of 280 DOCUMENTS

                         St. Petersburg Times (Florida)

                April 21, 2000, Friday, 0 South Pinellas Edition

Does Elian have right to decide his future?

BYLINE: BILL DURYEA; BILL ADAIR

SECTION: NATIONAL; Pg. 1A

LENGTH: 1132 words

DATELINE: MIAMI



Immigration case law would say no, but a federal appeals court ruling says he
may seek asylum.

He splashes in a kiddie pool, would rather play Nintendo than do his homework,
and says his mother, who drowned fleeing Cuba, may just have a bump on her head.

Elian Gonzalez is 6 years old, a "tender age," in the words of one judge. Is he
old enough to decide where he should live?

Since the boy was plucked from the sea where he had floated for two days on an
inner tube, it has been widely presumed that an adult - his father in Cuba, his
great-uncle in Miami, Janet Reno in Washington - knows what is best for the
little boy.

The ruling of a federal appeals court in Atlanta on Wednesday raised another
possibility: Elian may be able to speak for himself.

This ambiguity reignited a long-standing debate, albeit with a Cold War twist,
on whether a minor, especially someone as young and emotionally fragile as
Elian, should have the power to determine his future. Can a first-grader assess
the difference between living in a democracy and a communist dictatorship?

"The court of appeals got it exactly right," said Alan Dershowitz, Harvard Law
School professor. "They were exactly right to focus on Elian's rights, not the
rights of his father, not the rights of his family, but his rights as a human
being."

Bernard Perlmutter, director of the University of Miami Children and Youth Law
Clinic, said the issue of age is getting increasing attention from legal
scholars.

"Children as young as 5 or 6 years of age are regarded as having opinions that
are entitled to weight in legal proceedings," Perlmutter said.

But the debate over how best to respect children's rights is complicated by
disagreement over what type of law to apply to the case.

View it as strictly an immigration issue, as Attorney General Reno does, and
experts say that despite the ruling from the 11th U.S. Circuit Court of Appeals,
case law clearly favors the father.

David Ross, a Los Angeles immigration lawyer who has handled many cases in
Florida, said courts, including the U.S. Supreme Court, have consistently ruled
that parents speak for their children in immigration cases. The Miami relatives
"don't have a legal leg to stand on," he said.

But place the case before a family court judge, as Elian's Miami family has
requested, and a different standard, one that at least allows the child's wishes
to be heard, can be applied.

Florida law does not specify an age at which a child is presumed to be old
enough to speak for himself in custody cases, said Caroline K. Black, a Tampa
lawyer who serves on the Florida Supreme Court's commission on the legal needs
of children.

But the law clearly allows for the possibility that a child's best interest may
be different from either parent, she said. To ensure the child's interests are
represented, often a guardian ad litem will be appointed by the court. A
psychologist may also be asked to interview the child.

Judges can choose to hear directly from the child, Black said, quoting state
statute, "if the court deems the child to be of sufficient intelligence,
understanding and experience to express a preference."

Hillsborough Circuit Judge Gregory P. Holder said the youngest child he had ever
directly interviewed in a custody proceeding was 7. "Typically, they are 10 and
older," he said.

"Any statements made by a child "of tender years,' and a 6-year-old is a child
of tender years," is immediately suspect, Holder said.

Children do not deliberately lie, Black said, but studies have shown that at age
6 children generally do not have the ability to tell the difference between
right and wrong answers.

"For a child that age the right answer is what he thinks the person wants to
hear," Black said.

Howard Davidson, director of the Washington-based American Bar Association
Center on Children and the Law, said that in cases involving child abuse and
neglect, children do not have the right to determine their fate.

"Most abused children express a preference for remaining with their parents,
even though it might put them in danger," he said.

The consensus among Cuban exiles in Little Havana is that Elian would be in
mortal danger, like all people living under Fidel Castro's rule, if he returned
to Cuba. But these are the opinions of adults, many of whom claim painful
firsthand knowledge of Castro's brutality.

When Elian signed his request for political asylum, did he understand what he
was asking for? When he told his 21-year-old cousin, Marisleysis Gonzalez, that
he didn't want to go back to Cuba was he expressing his true feelings or
parroting a sentiment she yearned to hear?

Juan Miguel Gonzalez, who was interviewed in December in Havana by an INS
officer, does not have a legal degree, but insists there is only one person who
should speak for his oldest son.

"Elian, at the age of 6, cannot make a decision on his own," said Gonzalez, a
resort worker from Cardenas.

"As for him to get asylum," Gonzalez said, "I'm not allowing him to stay or
claim any type of petitions; he should be returned immediately to me."

An asylum application signed by Lazaro Gonzalez, Elian's great-uncle, was filed
three days before Juan Miguel Gonzalez's INS interview. Another application,
signed by Elian, was filed "shortly thereafter," according to the ruling.

After interviewing the father, the INS concluded that Elian could not seek
asylum without his father's consent. Reno, who oversees the INS, concurred,
saying that "under universally accepted legal norms," the father should speak
for the child.

But Wednesday's decision suggested otherwise.

In ordering that the boy not be removed from the United States until his case is
resolved, the three-judge panel said federal immigration law leaves open the
possibility that a child may apply for asylum.

The law says "any alien" may apply for asylum, without restrictions involving
age, the judges wrote.

"We cannot say that "any alien' excludes (Elian). Given the plain language of
the statute, he might be entitled to apply personally for asylum," they wrote.

Ross, the Los Angeles immigration lawyer, expected the full appeals court to
side with the boy's father.

Congress is likely to consider changing the way the INS treats unaccompanied
children. Sen. Bob Graham, D-Fla., introduced a bill last week that would create
a guardian ad litem who would "champion the child's best interests."

Thursday, Elian skated in front of his house, behaving very much like the little
boy he is.

In the end, Elian may rewrite federal law.

But as Perlmutter noted, unless the boy can show evidence of possible
persecution, his asylum request will be rejected.

- Times researcher Kitty Bennett and staff writer Wes Allison contributed to
this report.


LOAD-DATE: April 21, 2000

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                    Copyright 2000 Times Publishing Company
