
                               1 of 457 DOCUMENTS

                       St. Louis Post-Dispatch (Missouri)

                 July 18, 2000, Tuesday, FIVE STAR LIFT EDITION

CHARGES AGAINST BAHRAINI PRINCESS WHO MARRIED MARINE ARE UPHELD

BYLINE: The Associated Press

SECTION: NEWS, Pg. A2

LENGTH: 236 words

DATELINE: SAN DIEGOLEGAL HEARING; IMMIGRANT; ILLEGAL ENTRY; MARRIAGE; ASYLUM;
RELIGION


A Bahraini princess who fled her country with fake documents to marry a U.S.
Marine must face charges of illegally entering the United States, a judge said
Monday.

Immigration judge Ignacio Fernandez refused to dismiss the charges. His ruling
means that the princess, Meriam Al Khalifa, 19, cannot apply for permanent
residency in the United States without seeking political asylum.

Al Khalifa plans to apply for asylum on the grounds that she faces extreme
persecution for marrying a non-Muslim if she returns, said her attorney, Jan
Joseph Bejar.

"I can guarantee you it is not just 'Daddy is mad at me,'" Bejar said. She has
up to a year to apply for political asylum.

Monica Mubaraki, a lawyer for the Immigration and Naturalization Service, did
not return a phone call seeking comment.

A spokesman for the Bahraini Embassy in Washington says that Al Khalifa would
not face persecution.

The hearing was closed, but Bejar provided an account of the judge's action.

Al Khalifa lives with her husband, Pfc. Jason Johnson, on Camp Pendleton, near
San Diego.

Al Khalifa and Johnson met last year at a mall in Bahrain, where Johnson, 25,
was assigned to a security unit.

As his deployment was ending late last year, he forged U.S. military documents
that Al Khalifa used to fly to the United States. Immigration officials in
Chicago discovered the ruse. The couple later married in Las Vegas.

LOAD-DATE: July 18, 2000

LANGUAGE: English

GRAPHIC: PHOTO Photo by THE ASSOCIATED PRESS - Marine Pfc. Jason Johnson and
Meriam Al Khalifa arrive for a hearing Monday in San Diego. At left is lawyer
Jan Joseph Bejar.
 Note: photo and caption ran only in the THREE STAR Edition.

                  Copyright 2000 St. Louis Post-Dispatch, Inc.


                               2 of 457 DOCUMENTS

                       St. Louis Post-Dispatch (Missouri)

                July 29, 2000, Saturday, FIVE STAR LIFT EDITION

GORE THROWS DOWN GAUNTLET TO BUSH ON IMMIGRATION RIGHTS

BYLINE: The Associated Press

SECTION: NEWS, Pg. 4

LENGTH: 429 words

DATELINE: WRIGHTSVILLE BEACH, N.C.WRIGHTSVILLE BEACH, NORTH CAROLINA; CAMPAIGN
2000; POLITICS CAMPAIGN TRAIL; CANDIDATE; VICE PRESIDENT; PRESIDENTIAL ELECTION;
DEMOCRATIC PARTY; CHALLENGE; POLITICAL AGENDA; PLATFORM; IMMIGRATION RIGHTS


* The vice president challenged the Texas governor to support a Democratic
measure to help more Central American immigrants and illegal aliens gain
citizenship.

Vice President Al Gore, courting Hispanic voters, challenged rival George W.
Bush to join him in backing a Democratic proposal to expand immigration rights
for hundreds of thousands of Central Americans.

"This will not only ensure equitable humanitarian protections, but also advance
our commitment to the stability of emerging democracies," the presumptive
Democratic presidential nominee said in a statement issued by his campaign
office.

Bush spokesman Scott McClellan said the presumptive Republican presidential
nominee "does not support a complete amnesty at this time." He pointed to Bush's
own suggestion that the Immigration and Naturalization Service be revamped.

"Al Gore should be behind Governor Bush's plan to reform the INS and make sure
that America is more welcoming to new immigrants," McClellan said.

Gore is pushing legislation that would broaden the rights of some Central
Americans and longtime illegal aliens to obtain citizenship, a hot issue among
Hispanics. Currently, people fleeing strife in Cuba and Nicaragua can obtain
citizenship; the new measure in Congress, a Democratic amendment to a bill on
visas for high-tech workers, would expand the list to include Salvadorans,
Guatemalans, Hondurans and Haitians.

By some estimates, 500,000 people could be affected by the changes. The measure
has strong backing by Hispanic members of Congress.

"I believe we should correct this long-standing injustice, and I urge Congress
to pass this legislation," said Gore's statement. "I call upon G eorge W. Bush
to make clear his stance on this issue and join me in challenging Congress to
pass this essential legislation."

The same measure also would make it easier for those living in this country
since 1986 to obtain citizenship and allow some families to remain while
applications are being processed.

"Families who are in this country legally should be allowed to remain together
in the United States while immigration applications are made," said Gore.

Hispanics are a major voting bloc nationally, and even more important in some
big states like California, Texas and Florida. The group generally votes
Democratic, but Bush has worked hard to make inroads among them.

Gore issued the challenge during his vacation off the North Carolina coast. He
is staying on Figure Eight Island at the seaside home of Parker and Becky
Overton, longtime family friends.

LOAD-DATE: July 29, 2000

LANGUAGE: English

                  Copyright 2000 St. Louis Post-Dispatch, Inc.


                               3 of 457 DOCUMENTS

                       St. Louis Post-Dispatch (Missouri)

               August 28, 1996, Wednesday, FIVE STAR LIFT Edition

CALIFORNIA ENDS AID TO ILLEGAL IMMIGRANTS; WILSON CALLS ORDER FIRST STEP IN
REFORM

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 1A

LENGTH: 387 words

DATELINE: SACRAMENTO, CALIF.


Gov. Pete Wilson signed an executive order on Tuesday that directs all state
agencies and state-supported colleges and universities to halt benefits to
illegal immigrants.

Wilson, a Republican, described his executive order as "the first step in
implementing federal welfare reform." He said it would help "end the magic lure"
of taxpayer-financed benefits that contribute to what he described as a crisis
in illegal immigration.

In a signing ceremony in his Capitol office, Wilson said his action would mean
that California "no longer rewards those who break the law by entering the
country illegally."

His office did not provide details of which services or benefits might be cut
off, but Wilson said that the order would not affect emergency medical services
and that he would ask the Legislature to enact laws to continue to provide care
for sick illegal immigrants "for transitional purposes only."

"This will achieve many of the objectives attempted with Proposition 187, and in
fact, in some areas, goes even further than 187," Wilson's spokesman, Sean
Walsh, said earlier.

Proposition 187, approved by California voters in 1994, would prohibit illegal
immigrants from receiving public education, nonemergency health care and welfare
services. The measure has been held up in the courts, and opponents have
obtained court orders forcing the state to adhere to earlier laws granting such
services to illegal immigrants.

Few details of the executive order - which is all but certain to draw court
challenges - were available. But a Health and Welfare Department spokeswoman
said illegal immigrants had access to about two dozen programs.

Welfare officials could not say how much money might be saved through the cuts
or how many people might be affected.

Among the programs that could be affected, said the spokeswoman, Lisa Kalustian,
are prenatal care programs; state assistance to families who adopt handicapped
or developmentally disabled children; child abuse prevention programs; and
supplemental disaster relief programs.

Advocates for the poor say ending eligibility for illegal immigrants will not be
a simple matter.

At least in California, the court challenges that have delayed the
implementation of Proposition 187 could also block the carrying out of the
executive order.

LOAD-DATE: August 28, 1996

LANGUAGE: English

                  Copyright 1996 St. Louis Post-Dispatch, Inc.


                               4 of 457 DOCUMENTS

                       St. Louis Post-Dispatch (Missouri)

                 July 16, 2000, Sunday, FIVE STAR LIFT EDITION

WASHINGTON DISPATCH

BYLINE: Deirdre Shesgreen; Post-Dispatch Washington Bureau

SECTION: NEWS, Pg. A6

LENGTH: 1341 words

DATELINE: WASHINGTONLABOR


* The stage seems to be set for Congress to approve more visas for high-tech
foreign workers.

* Bipartisan legislation pending in the House would raise the immigration caps
for high-skilled workers to 200,000 per year from 115,000. But attempts by the
Democrats to tie the issue with other immigration policies is giving Republicans
pause.

With both parties avidly courting high-tech companies, it might seem like the
industry's top priority -- lifting the immigration cap for high-skilled workers
-- would be a sure bet in Congress this year.

Lawmakers across the ideological spectrum -- from conservative Republicans such
as Sen. John Ashcroft of Missouri to liberal Democrats like House Minority
Leader Richard Gephardt -- have endorsed the measure.

"All of us are hearing the same thing all over the country, that there is not
enough human talent out there to fill the (high-tech) jobs," said Gephardt,
D-St. Louis County. "You've got to listen to that."

But there are divisions on Capitol Hill.

At the center of the debate is legislation that would allow more high-skilled
foreign workers to come to the United States on temporary, six-year visas. Now,
the cap is set at 115,000 visas for the fiscal year; by May, the Immigration and
Naturalization Service had already doled out all the available slots. No more
visas can be granted until Oct. 1

Nationwide, the unemployment rate is at a 30-year low, and the crunch is
especially strong in the high-tech sector. High-tech executives say they can't
find enough American workers to fill their jobs and they fear the labor shortage
will crimp the industry and slow the current economic boom.

"Right now, we do have a crisis," said Marcia Mellitz, president of the Center
for Emerging Technologies in St. Louis, a nonprofit organization that tries to
bring high-tech companies to the city. "We see a huge demand for these jobs and
not enough people locally to fill them."

The result, Mellitz said, is that companies in St. Louis and across the country
are hamstrung in the race to develop new technologies.

Raising the caps

Bipartisan legislation pending in the House would raise the immigration caps for
high-skilled workers to 200,000 per year through 2003, setting aside 60,000 of
the visas for people with graduate or other advanced degrees. The legislation
would increase the application fee by $ 500, with the extra money going toward
job training and education programs for U.S. workers. Similar legislation has
been introduced in the Senate.

Members of both parties have championed the bill.

"There's an immediate need for these workers to support the high-tech
companies," said Sen. Christopher "Kit" Bond, R-Mo.

Critics say money and mystique have clouded the politicians' judgment.

"One of the reasons (the bill has so much support) is that the tech companies
have dumped truckloads of money" into congressional campaign coffers, said Mark
Krikorian, executive director of the Center for Immigration Studies, an
immigration think tank that opposes the bill. Like organized labor, his group
suspects the industry doesn't need workers from outside the United States but
simply wants cheaper labor.

The industry made at least $ 8 million in campaign contributions last year,
about three times the amount reported during the opening year of the last
presidential campaign, according to the Center for Responsive Politics, a
nonpartisan group that tracks money in politics.

Krikorian said there's also a "mystique" about the technology industry, which
seems to have enchanted many on Capitol Hill. "There is this conception that
tech companies are magicians, rather than just 21st-century manufacturers," he
said.

Boom eases fears

It doesn't hurt that Americans are enjoying an unprecedented economic boom,
making immigration a much less volatile issue. Today, presidential hopeful Pat
Buchanan's message about "mass immigration" splintering American culture and
contributing to a host of social ills doesn't have the resonance that it did
four or eight years ago.

"The economic climate has clearly changed the immigration policy debate," said
Cecilia Munoz, vice president for policy at the National Council of La Raza, a
Latino civil rights organization. "Views like those expressed by Pat Buchanan
are far from the mainstream at the moment."

Still, raising the immigration caps has its political downsides. For many
Democrats, it presents a choice between Silicon Valley, where they've reaped big
campaign contributions, and organized labor, a loyal constituency that will be
crucial in the upcoming elections. The AFL-CIO and other unions have expressed
skepticism about the high-tech industry's claims of a labor shortage and
question the need to give good jobs to foreign workers.

For that reason, Gephardt said that many Democrats want to boost the domestic
education proposals in the bill, to help make sure that the high-tech sector can
fill future jobs with Americans rather than remaining dependent on foreign
talent.

"These visas are a short-term answer," he said. "The long-term answer is better
training and education."

Testy exchanges

Republicans are also in a bit of a political quandary over the bill, thanks to
two other amendments that Democrats hope to add.

In 1997, Congress passed legislation that granted green cards to Nicaraguans and
Cubans who had fled repressive leftist dictatorships. But the law gave lesser
relief to refugees who had fled repressive right-wing governments in countries
such as El Salvador and Guatemala -- and no relief to those from Honduras and
Haiti.

Democrats want a "parity" amendment that they say would correct unequal
treatment for refugees from those four countries.

The second provision Democrats are pushing would give amnesty to some 300,000
undocumented immigrants who courts ruled had been incorrectly turned away by the
INS.

Rep. Zoe Lofgren, D-Calif., an author of the House legislation, said the
amendments are "fairness" issues of great importance to the Hispanic community.
"It's about allowing people who are already here to live free lives, instead of
limbo lives," Lofgren said.

But in testy exchanges last week, Republicans in both the House and Senate
balked at the additions.

Bond accused Democrats of playing politics with the legislation, trying to slow
it down with unrelated baggage. "I think that unnecessarily fouls up the
immigration system," Bond said of the two Democratic proposals. He said
Democrats attached the amendments hoping to kill the bill and get them off the
hot seat with labor.

There's little question that the Democrats are enjoying watching the Republicans
squirm. Said one gleeful Democratic staff member: "This issue causes terrible
problems for the Republicans. They've got these hard-line anti-immigration
folks, but they want to appear high-tech, so they're kind of in a box."

Pleasing Bill Gates?

Indeed, the two amendments, which are at the top of the Hispanic community's
agenda -- come at a time when the GOP's likely presidential nominee, Texas Gov.
George W. Bush, is wooing Latino voters.

Munoz, of the Council of La Raza, said the contrast between the Republicans'
rhetoric and their actions is stark. "They are telling us, 'You are important
and we want to change our image,'" she said. "But that appears to be about
marketing and not about policy, and that's unacceptable.

"Congress is eager to grant visas to people who Bill Gates wants and not
interested in helping people who are in long-term legal limbo," Munoz said.

The question now is whether the two parties' eagerness to please the high tech
industry will help them reach a compromise.

One industry representative, Rhett Dawson, president of the Information
Technology Industry Council, said he was confident Congress would act. "There is
enough momentum behind it and there is enough commitment to it that I believe it
will get done," he said. "It may give us some scary moments, but I think we'll
get there."

LOAD-DATE: July 16, 2000

LANGUAGE: English

GRAPHIC: GRAPHIC Graphic illustration by JON SHERFFIUS / POST-DISPATCH - HELP
WANTED
 Computers
 CAREER OPPORTUNITY
 FULL & PART TIME
 Immediate openings are available for individuals from foreign nations with
computer skills. MUST be willing to relocate. Please send resumes to:
 United States of America

                  Copyright 2000 St. Louis Post-Dispatch, Inc.


                               5 of 457 DOCUMENTS

                       St. Louis Post-Dispatch (Missouri)

                August 26, 1996, Monday, FIVE STAR LIFT Edition

BRIEFS

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 6A

LENGTH: 348 words

BRIEFS/NATION/WORLD COLUMN


IOWA

Immigration Officials Raid Meatpacking Plant

Immigration officials raided a Swift & Co. meatpacking plant in Marshalltown,
detaining at least 125 suspected illegal workers.

The Immigration and Naturalization Service raided the pork processing plant on
Saturday after discovering that many employees had submitted false information
to the company, INS official Jerry Heinauer said.

The plant was shut down temporarily.

AP

WORLD

HURRICANE EDOUARD

Forecasters Uncertain Where Storm Will Strike

Packing 145 mph wind, Hurricane Edouard pushed across the Atlantic on Sunday,
but forecasters in Miami said it was still too far from land to predict where
the storm might strike.

Edouard was situated 850 miles west of the Caribbean's Leeward Islands. Edouard,
a compact and powerful storm, was swirling west-northwest at 14 mph.

Reuters

FRANCE

50 Africans Released After Police Turnabout

President Jacques Chirac pledged Sunday to stick to France's strict immigration
policies despite a furor over a police roundup of Africans in a church in Paris.

About 50 of the Africans seized in Friday's swoop on the St. Bernard Church,
including hunger strikers on a 52-day fast, were freed from custody after court
victories over detention orders, and a police turnabout.

Reuters

BURUNDI

New Deal Would Recognize Military Leader From Coup

U.S. diplomats are brokering a deal that would allow a military leader installed
in last month's coup to be recognized as president, sources close to the talks
said Sunday.

The deal would require military leader Pierre Buyoya to restore the national
assembly in Bujumbura with its original membership, the sources said.

AP

SOUTH AFRICA

Subpoenas To Summon Key Apartheid Figures

Archbishop Desmond Tutu's Truth and Reconciliation Commission will begin issuing
subpoenas this week in Cape Town to try to find the figures who were responsible
for the country's race war.

Leaders of the major parties involved, from right-wing whites to radical blacks,
appeared before the commission last week.

Reuters

LOAD-DATE: August 26, 1996

LANGUAGE: English

                  Copyright 1996 St. Louis Post-Dispatch, Inc.


                               6 of 457 DOCUMENTS

                       St. Louis Post-Dispatch (Missouri)

               December 23, 1997, Tuesday, FIVE STAR LIFT EDITION

U.S. GARMENT MAKER SMUGGLED ILLEGAL WORKERS INTO COUNTRY FROM MEXICO, U.S.;
OFFICIALS CHARGE

BYLINE: From News Services

SECTION: NEWS, Pg. A10

LENGTH: 256 words

DATELINE: WASHINGTON


Federal agents have arrested the president of a garment-manufacturing company on
alien-smuggling charges after breaking up a ring that recruited workers inside
Mexico, officials said Monday. The ring moved the Mexicans illegally across the
U.S. border and delivered them to factories in Georgia and Alabama, the
officials said.

The case marked the first time that federal prosecutors have directly linked a
U.S. company and its president to a criminal conspiracy to smuggle illegal
workers into the country. It is being prosecuted under a provision in the 1996
immigration reform law. The measure, for the first time, made it a federal crime
to conspire to transport illegal immigrants.

Officials from the Immigration and Naturalization Service and the Justic e
Department said they had indicted nine members of a smuggling ring, including
Fred Lee Parrish, president of Atlantic Finishing Inc., the American
manufacturing company that agents said was importing the illegal workers.

Federal officials said Mexican workers, most of them unmarried young men, were
smuggled across the border over at least the last three years to work for
Atlantic Finishing, but they did not know precisely how many. The indictment
said each Mexican paid the smugglers $ 1,000 to be brought across the border.

Parrish, who was arrested last week, said from his home Monday night in
Chattanooga, Tenn., that the charges"were totally false. Other than that, I
can't say anything else."

Atlantic Finishing makes T-shirts for wholesalers.

LOAD-DATE: December 23, 1997

LANGUAGE: English

                  Copyright 1997 St. Louis Post-Dispatch, Inc.


                               7 of 457 DOCUMENTS

                       St. Louis Post-Dispatch (Missouri)

              November 21, 1998, Saturday, FIVE STAR LIFT EDITION

U.S. AGENCY ARRESTS 21 IN ALIEN SMUGGLING RING

BYLINE: The Associated Press

SECTION: NEWS, Pg. 21

LENGTH: 319 words

DATELINE: WASHINGTON


* Cartel is accused of operating a global network that sneaked thousands of
foreigners into the United States.

Federal officials said Friday they had smashed an international ring that
reportedly smuggled thousands of foreigners into the United States at $ 20,000
or more a person.

"Let all those who flout the nation's immigration laws be warned: We plan to
take swift and decisive action against you," said Attorney General Janet Reno.

Twenty-one people have been arrested in the United States, Puerto Rico and the
Bahamas as part of "Operation Seek and Keep," a yearlong smuggling and
money-laundering investigation conducted by the Immigration and Naturalization
Service.

The organization's alleged ringleader, Nick Diaz, also known as Nitin Shettie,
was arrested by INS officials in the Bahamas last week.

Officials said the cartel specialized in smuggling Indian nationals through
Moscow to Cuba, where they were then dispatched to Ecuador, the Bahamas or
Mexico before being smuggled into the United States by land, sea or air. The
ring also smuggled aliens from Afghanistan, Pakistan and Syria, the officials
said.

"Cracking a multimillion-dollar alien smuggling ring whose operations spanned
four continents is an impressive achievement that underscores INS' commitment to
defending the integrity of this nation's immigration laws," INS Commissioner
Doris Meissner said at a news conference.

The illegal immigrants were detained in secret houses in the United States until
their families or prospective employers paid their smuggling fees.

Reno criticized the "unscrupulous employers who wanted cheap labor and fearful
workers who could be manipulated."

The case marked the first time federal prosecutors have used money-laundering
statutes to dismantle an illegal alien smuggling operation and seize assets,
said Paul Coggins, U.S. attorney for the Northern District of Texas.

LOAD-DATE: July 4, 1999

LANGUAGE: English

GRAPHIC: PHOTO Photo by THE ASSOCIATED PRESS - Attorney General Janet Reno
announces Friday in Washington the breakup of a ring that reportedly smuggled
thousands of foreigners into the United States. The foreigners were charged $
20,000 each, according to immigration officials.

                  Copyright 1998 St. Louis Post-Dispatch, Inc.


                               8 of 457 DOCUMENTS

                       St. Louis Post-Dispatch (Missouri)

               February 18, 2000, Friday, FIVE STAR LIFT EDITION

CHECHENS SAY RUSSIANS ARE TORTURING REFUGEES;
U.S. OFFICIAL URGES MOSCOW TO INVESTIGATE REPORTS FROM DETENTION CAMPS

BYLINE: The Associated Press

SECTION: NEWS, Pg. A5

LENGTH: 450 words

DATELINE: MALGOBEK, RUSSIA


Chechens trying to leave their war-ravaged republic are being tortured in
Russian detention camps and subjected to severe beatings, rapes and other
brutality, refugees and human rights groups say.

The allegations come on the heels of other complaints of human rights abuses in
the Russian offensive in Chechnya, including reports of summary executions of
civilians in Grozny, the Chechen capital.

Russian officials deny the allegations, but Chechens who have fled into
neighboring republics tell similar, grisly accounts of detention in camps that
Russia says it set up to filter out rebels who are trying to escape disguised as
civilians.

A 21-year-old Chechen, lying in pain in a bed in Malgobek in neighboring North
Ossetia, said his ordeal began Jan. 22 when police dragged him off a bus of
refugees and took him to a camp in the Chechen village of Chernokozovo.

The man, who asked that he be identified only by his first name, Ruslan, said he
was forced to run a gantlet of masked policemen swinging truncheons, had his
clothes torn off and was forced to stand naked in a cold storage room.

He was released only after his mother paid a bribe to the camp directors, he
said.

At least three such camps are operating, according to Peter Bouckaert, a
researcher for the Human Rights Watch group in the region. "Russia appears to
have declared any Chechen male to be a suspected rebel, subject to arbitrary
arrest and brutal treatment," he said.

The allegations were echoed by the World Organization Against Torture, which
issued a statement in Geneva on Thursday saying, "We cannot ignore that the
filtration camps are indeed concentration camps where Russian soldiers are
committing the worst atrocities, in all impunity, against their prisoners."

In Washington, State Department spokesman James P. Rubin said Thursday that
"Russia has a clear obligation to investigate the numerous credible reports of
civilian killings and alleged misconduct by its soldiers promptly."

Sergei Yastrzhembsky, who is acting President Vladimir Putin's aide for Chechnya
information, on Thursday reiterated denials of torture at Chernokozovo. "Routine
work like in any other detention center is going on there," he said.

Meanwhile, Chechen rebels were retreating in the face of the Russian offensive
in southern Chechnya on Thursday and were regrouping deeper in the mountains,
Russian officials said.

Russian warplanes and artillery continued to strike rebel bases, hitting deep in
the mountains to uproot separatist fighters from their hideouts.

Yastrzhembsky said the rebels were moving south in hopes of building new defense
positions, the news agency Interfax reported.

LOAD-DATE: February 18, 2000

LANGUAGE: English

GRAPHIC: PHOTO AGENCE FRANCE-PRESSE Photo - Russian troops move toward new
positions Wednesday in the mountains of southern Chechnya. New tactics of
"remote war" are aiding the Russians, officials say.

                  Copyright 2000 St. Louis Post-Dispatch, Inc.


                               9 of 457 DOCUMENTS

                       St. Louis Post-Dispatch (Missouri)

                 April 14, 2000, Friday, FIVE STAR LIFT EDITION

WORLD

BYLINE: From News Services

SECTION: NEWS, Pg. A10

LENGTH: 616 words



NORTH AMERICA

CANADA

Native group is given self-governing status

A new treaty giving the Nisga'a native group a homeland in British Columbia won
final approval from Parliament on Thursday and was enacted into law.

The Senate chamber voted 52-15 with 13 abstentions to pass the treaty, which
survived a lengthy opposition filibuster in the House of Commons last year.
After the Senate vote, Gov. Gen. Adrienne Clarkson granted royal assent to the
treaty, effectively making it law.

Under the treaty, the 5,500 Nisga'a assume self-governing status in an
800-square-mile territory in northwest British Columbia and receive $ 173
million, along with funding for commercial fishing and other economic ventures.

MEXICO

Seven illegal workers are found dead on train

Seven people were found dead after authorities opened two sealed train cars
packed with illegal workers hoping to reach the United States. At least two of
the dead had suffocated in the two cars carrying 200 people. Officials said 46
other people were hospitalized.

The migrants, who had left Honduras, El Salvador and Guatemala in search of
work, were discovered Wednesday while en route through Mexico. Immigration
authorities intercepted the train traveling from the southern Gulf Coast state
of Tabasco. The train's operator, engineer and brakeman were arrested.

===

EUROPE

NORTHERN IRELAND

Failed mortar attack on police station is reported

A failed mortar attack on a village police station was reported Thursday, hours
before British troop levels in Northern Ireland were scaled down to their lowest
point since 1970. No one was reported injured.

Police on Thursday would not confirm a report that a mortar shell had exploded
prematurely in a car at the Royal Ulster Constabulary base at Rosslea, southwest
of Belfast. But they said they had cordoned off a car there shortly after
midnight and efforts were under way to determine what had happened.

It would be the fourth failed attack on a security installation since Feb. 11,
when Britain suspended Northern Ireland's new government to avoid a walkout by
the pro-British Ulster Unionist Party over the Irish Republican Army's refusal
to disarm.

===

MIDDLE EAST

IRAQ

U.N. approves new plan for weapons inspections

The U.N. Security Council on Thursday unanimously approved an organizational
plan for returning weapons inspectors to Iraq, more than a year after they were
barred from the country by Saddam Hussein.

After only a few hours of debate, the council president, Robert Fowler of
Canada, made the announcement after the chief U.N. weapons inspector, Hans Blix,
briefed ambassadors for the first time on his plan.

The quick approval signals that the Security Council, which has been deeply
divided over Iraq, is united in its initial support for Blix, the 73-year-old
former head of the International Atomic Energy Agency who was chosen to head the
new U.N. Monitoring, Verification and Inspection Commission.

===

ASIA

CHINA

200 Falun Gong members are arrested, group says

Police arrested at least 200 people in and around Tiananmen Square on Thursday
after they unfurled banners to protest official efforts to destroy the banned
Falun Gong meditation movement, a human rights group said.

Some of the protesters were beaten by police, said the Hong Kong-based
Information Center for Human Rights and Democratic Movement in China.

The Falun Gong members were protesting official efforts to prevent them from
marking the anniversary of a demonstration last year on April 25 that led to a
crackdown on the group, the center said.

LOAD-DATE: April 14, 2000

LANGUAGE: English

TYPE: World Briefs Column

                  Copyright 2000 St. Louis Post-Dispatch, Inc.


                              10 of 457 DOCUMENTS

                       St. Louis Post-Dispatch (Missouri)

                   April 14, 2000, Friday, THREE STAR EDITION

WORLD

BYLINE: From News Services

SECTION: NEWS, Pg. A10

LENGTH: 619 words



NORTH AMERICA

CANADA

Native group is given self-governing status

A new treaty giving the Nisga'a native group a homeland in British Columbia won
final approval from Parliament on Thursday and was enacted into law.

The Senate chamber voted 52-15 with 13 abstentions to pass the treaty, which
survived a lengthy opposition filibuster in the House of Commons last year.
After the Senate vote, Gov. Gen. Adrienne Clarkson granted royal assent to the
treaty, effectively making it law.

Under the treaty, the 5,500 Nisga'a assume self-governing status in an
800-square-mile territory in northwest British Columbia and receive $ 173
million, along with funding for commercial fishing and other economic ventures.

MEXICO

Seven illegal workers are found dead on train

Seven people were found dead after authorities opened two sealed train cars
packed with illegal workers hoping to reach the United States. At least two of
the dead had suffocated in the two cars carrying 200 people. Officials said 46
other people were hospitalized.

The migrants, who had left Honduras, El Salvador and Guatemala in search of
work, were discovered Wednesday while en route through Mexico. Immigration
authorities intercepted the train traveling from the southern Gulf Coast state
of Tabasco. The train's operator, engineer and brakeman were arrested.

===

EUROPE

NORTHERN IRELAND

Failed mortar attack on police station is reported

A failed mortar attack on a village police station was reported Thursday, hours
before British troop levels in Northern Ireland were scaled down to their lowest
point since 1970. No one was reported injured.

Police on Thursday would not confirm a report that a mortar shell had exploded
prematurely in a car at the Royal Ulster Constabulary base at Rosslea, southwest
of Belfast. But they said they had cordoned off a car there shortly after
midnight and efforts were under way to determine what had happened.

It would be the fourth failed attack on a security installation since Feb. 11,
when Britain suspended Northern Ireland's new government to avoid a walkout by
the pro-British Ulster Unionist Party over the Irish Republican Army's refusal
to disarm.

===

AFRICA

RWANDA

Authorities arrest members of obscure Christian sect

Fearing a repeat of the cult deaths that horrified neighboring Uganda, Rwandan
authorities have detained eight members of an obscure Christian sect on charges
of illegal assembly and unauthorized worship.

The eight members of the Minevam sect were taken into custody Wednesday, but
three have been released after promising to abandon their round-the-clock
regimen of prayer, said Karegyesa Kamiri, a local official in Byumba, 30 miles
north of the capital, Kigali.

Kamiri said no links had been established between the Minevam sect and Uganda's
Movement for the Restoration of the Ten Commandments of the God. A March 17 fire
in the movement's chapel in the southwestern Ugandan village of Kanungu killed
530 people.

===

ASIA

CHINA

200 Falun Gong members are arrested, group says

Police arrested at least 200 people in and around Tiananmen Square on Thursday
after they unfurled banners to protest official efforts to destroy the banned
Falun Gong meditation movement, a human rights group said.

Some of the protesters were beaten by police, said the Hong Kong-based
Information Center for Human Rights and Democratic Movement in China.

The Falun Gong members were protesting official efforts to prevent them from
marking the anniversary of a demonstration last year on April 25 that led to a
crackdown on the group, the center said.

LOAD-DATE: April 14, 2000

LANGUAGE: English

TYPE: World Briefs Column

                  Copyright 2000 St. Louis Post-Dispatch, Inc.


                              11 of 457 DOCUMENTS

                       St. Louis Post-Dispatch (Missouri)

                  June 4, 2000, Sunday, FIVE STAR LIFT EDITION

AFL-CIO FORUM FOCUSES ON HIRING OF ILLEGAL ALIENS

BYLINE: The Associated Press

SECTION: METRO, Pg. C12

LENGTH: 152 words

DATELINE: CHICAGO


The AFL-CIO held its Midwest forum on immigrant workers' rights on Saturday. The
organization has called for repeal of a 14-year-old federal law banning
employers from hiring illegal aliens. Labor officials say the law is used to
punish workers, not employers.

"People come to this country thinking they will get good wages and good working
conditions, but they find that's not the case," said Eliseo Chavez, a day
laborer in Chicago.

The forums are aimed at helping the AFL-CIO's leaders to come up with
suggestions for an alternative U.S. policy to the law, union officials said.
Previous forums were held in New York and Atlanta. Los Angeles is the final
stop, on June 10.

"Immigrants are not only the history of the union movement, they are the future,
its soul, its springboard," Linda Chavez-Thompson, an AFL-CIO executive vice
president, told the 400 people gathered at a union hall.

LOAD-DATE: June 4, 2000

LANGUAGE: English

                  Copyright 2000 St. Louis Post-Dispatch, Inc.


                              12 of 457 DOCUMENTS

                       St. Louis Post-Dispatch (Missouri)

                  August 16, 1998, Sunday, THREE STAR EDITION

WOMAN WINS JOB BACK AFTER REPORTING ILLEGAL IMMIGRANT TO BORDER AUTHORITIES

BYLINE: Los Angeles Times

SECTION: NEWS, Pg. A8

LENGTH: 389 words

DATELINE: LOS ANGELES


An independent arbitrator has ordered county officials in central California to
reinstate a clerical worker who was fired for turning in an illegal immigrant -
a deadbeat dad - to U.S. immigration authorities.

The case is the first known instance nationwide in which a government employee
sought protection for informing on an illegal immigrant under a 1996 federal law
that overrides the "no-tell" rules - adopted by many cities with large immigrant
populations such as Los Angeles and New York - restricting police and other
government workers from informing the Immigration and Naturalization Service
about suspected illegal immigrants.

Anti-immigration activists hailed the decision as having "far-reaching"
significance in protecting government workers who share information with the
INS.

But independent experts downplayed any overarching significance. Unlike certain
court decisions, arbitration rulings are not precedent-setting or binding in
other cases, though other arbitrators may refer back to them for guidance, noted
David Feller, former president of the National Academy of Arbitrators and
professor emeritus at the University of California at Berkeley's Boalt Hall
School of Law.

In the decision, an arbitrator directed the San Joaquin County district
attorney's office to reinstate Tamara L. Lowe to her position as a $
27,000-a-year office assistant in the family-support division.

Lowe, 38, was fired a year ago for violating privacy rules by alerting the
Border Patrol when an illegal immigrant - who was also a convicted heroin
smuggler - was due in her office for an appointment about support payments to
his children.

"It is difficult for the average person to comprehend that the chief law
enforcement officer in the county instructs its employees to ignore criminal
behavior they observe," wrote veteran arbitrator Norman Brand, who ordered Lowe
reinstated with full back pay and benefits.

Activists who want to curb immigration embraced Lowe's case and cast her as a
kind of martyr - though Lowe herself was not active in immigration issues before
being fired.

Her newfound allies voice the hope that her case will one day result in a broad
national shift in which police officers, social workers and other government
employees routinely turn in illegal immigrants for deportation.

LOAD-DATE: August 17, 1998

LANGUAGE: English

                  Copyright 1998 St. Louis Post-Dispatch, Inc.


                              13 of 457 DOCUMENTS

                       St. Louis Post-Dispatch (Missouri)

               January 5, 2000, Wednesday, FIVE STAR LIFT EDITION

CHINESE ARE USING CONTAINERS TO ENTER U.S., OFFICIALS SAY

BYLINE: The Associated Press

SECTION: NEWS, Pg. A9

LENGTH: 437 words

DATELINE: LOS ANGELES


More and more Chinese immigrants are trying to smuggle themselves into the
country by crossing the Pacific Ocean packed into cargo containers aboard ships,
authorities say.

In the past week, four of the 40-foot-long, canvas-topped metal containers have
been found and 60 suspected illegal immigrants captured.

In Canada, 25 stowaways were found Monday inside two containers on the
Seattle-bound California Jupiter. It remained docked Tuesday in Vancouver.

"It seems to be a troubling new trend," said Sharon Gavin, a spokeswoman for the
Immigration and Naturalization Service Western Region in Laguna Niguel, Calif.
"We're concerned that this may increase."

Another spokeswoman, Virginia Kice, said: "Some of these ships have over 1,000
containers. It is, in a sense, like looking for a needle in a haystack."

Federal agencies formed a working group to investigate. It is unclear whether
the same group of smugglers is responsible, Gavin said.

Also on Monday, three Chinese men were ordered held after 12 men were apparently
smuggled into the United States aboard a container ship from Hong Kong that
docked at Harbor Island in the Seattle area over the weekend.

A preliminary hearing was scheduled for Jan. 14 for Sheng Deng, Ju Shu Hwang and
Yu Zheng, who were taken into custody Sunday. They were waiting in a blue van
parked near the ship.

Immigration officials were alerted to the scheme by the agency's Hong Kong
office on Dec. 30.

The 12 men arrived on Harbor Island on Sunday aboard the container ship OOCL
Faith, owned by Orient Overseas Container Line of Hong Kong. They were found
inside a container, where they had been since Dec. 18, said an Immigration
spokeswoman, Irene Mortensen.

For at least a decade, Chinese lured by dreams of financial or political freedom
have sought to enter the United States illegally.

Immigration estimates that as many as 27,000 Chinese were in the United States
illegally in 1996.

Law enforcement success in stopping smuggling boats apparently has sparked the
container trend, Gavin said.

Smugglers charge as much as $ 60,000 per person for container space, about twice
the fee charged those who come on smuggling boats, authorities say.

Rusty fishing boats and freighters have carried hundreds to America.

In 1993, about 700 Chinese citizens were arrested after arriving on boats in the
San Francisco area, including 200 who were dumped from a freighter near the
Golden Gate Bridge.

That same year, 10 immigrants died when they jumped from a freighter that ran
aground near New York City. About 300 immigrants were on board.

LOAD-DATE: January 5, 2000

LANGUAGE: English

                  Copyright 2000 St. Louis Post-Dispatch, Inc.


                              14 of 457 DOCUMENTS

                       St. Louis Post-Dispatch (Missouri)

                 May 30, 2000, Tuesday, FIVE STAR LIFT EDITION

RANCHERS' MOVEMENT AGAINST ILLEGAL ALIENS WORRIES MEXICO, BORDER AGENTS;
CONSERVATIVE GROUPS PUSH ARIZONA INTO FOREFRONT OF IMMIGRATION BATTLE

BYLINE: The Associated Press

SECTION: NEWS, Pg. A3

LENGTH: 829 words

DATELINE: DOUGLAS, ARIZONA


An Arizona rancher turns down weekly offers to help him detain illegal
immigrants from Mexico passing through his land. Another resident patrols his
spread from a 25-foot steel tower with night-vision goggles. A Ku Klux Klan
supporter probes for support at an anti-immigration "summit."

Arizona became the preferred U.S. crossing point for Mexican illegal immigrants
two years ago. Now, with efforts to restrict illegal immigrants' rights in
California blocked by courts, some conservative and reactionary groups are
pushing to make Arizona the front line in a new battle against illegal
immigration.

The growing tension has sparked fear in northern Mexican towns. It also worries
U.S. government officials, even those who have largely tolerated ranchers who
set out with guns and dogs to look for Mexicans crossing the border.

In this southeastern Arizona town on the Mexican border, the once-overwhelming
influx of illegal immigrants through residents' properties has declined due to
the posting of additional Border Patrol agents. Despite the drop-off, some
ranchers and their supporters in the area have decided to build a political
movement.

They concede that property damage is no longer the driving issue, as they once
contended. Instead, they are trying to spark a nationwide battle against what
activist Larry Vance calls "a literal invasion."

Vance, himself the son of a Mexican immigrant, denies any connection to hate
groups - "I don't want any goofball groups around," he says. But he says
Southern California "has already become a political extension of Mexico," and he
keeps watch over his land outside Douglas from a steel tower with his
night-vision goggles.

"An America like this"

With California's anti-immigrant Proposition 187 struck down by the courts and
little support in the state, several California-based groups came out to the
nearby Arizona town of Sierra Vista in mid-May for a meeting to support the
local movement.

A local Ku Klux Klan supporter distributed leaflets bearing the burning-cross
logo outside the meeting.

When the man identified himself, he was asked to leave by the participants.

Inside, the meeting's organizers played a video featuring native Mexican
dancers. "Do you want to see an America like this?" the announcer intoned
ominously.

Participants hailed rancher Roger Barnett - who patrols his 22,000-acre ranch
with a high-powered rifle and dogs and has detained dozens of i mmigrants - as a
national hero.

"I get calls every week from people wanting to come here and help," said
Barnett, who says he has turned down the offers because he doesn't think they
would be effective.

Barnett says the damage in litter, lost cattle and downed fences on his property
- which has cost him about $ 15,000 - "is not the primary thing" anymore.

"It's a principle," he says.

The ranchers face a potential legal fight from the Mexican government, which has
hired a Washington law firm to take possible legal action against them for
assault. They hate the Mexican government so much, they almost relish the
prospect of a tussle.

"Maybe the troops need to go down and occupy Mexico," Barnett says.

Despite pressure from Mexico, the U.S. government has paid little more than lip
service to trying to discourage the movement. The government argues it can't
stop U.S. citizens from patrolling their own private property, though there are
reports that some ranchers have begun detaining immigrants on roads outside
their land.

Local, state and federal authorities have somehow never found an immigrant
willing to lodge a complaint against the ranchers. Vance says one local official
told him to "stay within the law, so I can stay on your side."

Protection or racism?

The Border Patrol says it doesn't condone citizen detentions and adds that its
agents have never seen a rancher pulling a gun on an immigrant - something
Barnett says he did only once, with a particularly suspicious-looking Mexican.

The patrol's Tucson sector chief, David Aguilar, concedes the ranchers "are an
assistance, in the sense that they're our eyes and ears" in remote areas around
the border. But Aguilar says the Border Patrol is concerned about the potential
danger of citizen detentions. His second-in-command, Carlos Carrillo, says there
has been an uptick in incidents of violence since the ranchers' movement started
a year ago.

It is undeniable that illegal immigrants have frightened residents and caused
property damage since they began making Arizona their main crossing point. But
south of the border - in the still, hot air of the neighboring Mexican city of
Agua Prieta, where reports swirl that ranchers are hunting Mexicans for sport -
many say property protection is not the ranchers' motivation.

"It's racism," said Rafael Baez, a 40-year-old native of central Mexico waiting,
bag in hand, to make a run back into the United States. "It's just pure racism
and nothing else."

LOAD-DATE: May 30, 2000

LANGUAGE: English

GRAPHIC: PHOTO (1) Photo headshot - (Larry) Vance - "A literal invasion"
 (2) Photo by THE ASSOCIATED PRESS - Border Patrol agent Carlos Carrillo
(kneeling, center) talks to illegal immigrants detained by another agent near
Douglas, Ariz., on May 22.

                  Copyright 2000 St. Louis Post-Dispatch, Inc.


                              15 of 457 DOCUMENTS

                       St. Louis Post-Dispatch (Missouri)

                 June 27, 2000, Tuesday, FIVE STAR LIFT EDITION

BUSH PUSHES IMMIGRATION REFORM TO HISPANIC LEADERS

BYLINE: From News Services

SECTION: NEWS, Pg. A4

LENGTH: 384 words

DATELINE: WASHINGTON


Texas Gov. George W. Bush told Hispanic leaders Monday that he wants to split
the Immigration and Naturalization Service into two parts: a welcoming one for
legitimate immigrants and a tough one for border enforcement.

Bush also called for allowing relatives of permanent residents to visit the
United States while their own immigration papers are being processed.

Bush, the Republican presidential candidate, addressed the League of United
Latin American Citizens, in a speech spiced with Spanish phrases.

He seemed to change few minds. Those who said they already liked Bush said they
liked his message. Those opposed to him heard nothing in his 20-minute talk to
change their minds.

Rene Garcia, a government worker from Philadelphia and a Republican, liked
everything he heard from Bush on education, immigration reform and family.

"I like the way he thinks," Garcia said. "I like his message because he thinks
education is important and he respects Hispanic people."

But Teri Martinez, a teacher from Tucson, Ariz., and a Democrat, said: "It's
like he's talking off the top of his head. All I hear is rhetoric. Everything he
says is extremely ambiguous. I think he should have been briefed better because
everything was too general."

Besides splitting the Immigration and Naturalization Service in two, he said
that as president he would drop the policy that bars the spouses and minor
children of legal permanent residents from coming into the country while their
own entry applications are being processed.

A spokesman for Bush's likely presidential rival, Vice President Al Gore, said
that although the Immigration and Naturalization Service might be in need of
some reform, the agency should not be split.

"We don't need to create another bureaucracy. We can strike the right balance
between law enforcement and customer service under a streamlined Immigration and
Naturalization Service," said Doug Hattaway.

Gore is to address the nonpartisan Hispanic group Friday.

Both candidates have reached out to minority voters, particularly Hispanics, one
of the fastest-growing U.S. voting blocs. About 5.4 percent of voters are
Hispanic, up from 4.7 percent in 1996. Their numbers are especially strong in
such key election states as California, Florida and Texas.

LOAD-DATE: June 27, 2000

LANGUAGE: English

                  Copyright 2000 St. Louis Post-Dispatch, Inc.


                              16 of 457 DOCUMENTS

                       St. Louis Post-Dispatch (Missouri)

               August 22, 1996, Thursday, FIVE STAR LIFT Edition

LETTERS FROM THE PEOPLE

SECTION: EDITORIAL; Pg. 6B

LENGTH: 1286 words


The Right To Halt Illegal Immigration

I am writing in response to Christine Bertelson's Aug. 16 column, "Immigration
Reform Goes Against The Grain."

There is something amiss with Bertelson's logic. She is saying that if an
illegal immigrant has a child in the United States, then that child should have
all the rights and benefits afforded legal immigrants and citizens.

If I fraudulently included myself as a member of a group that was awarded a
large sum of money in a class-action suit, would I then be entitled to a portion
of that settlement? Of course not. By virtue of the fact that fraud was
involved, I would be denied any and all benefits or money and rightfully so.

This has nothing to do with the 14th Amendment; this has to do with the right of
a nation to maintain its borders. We are a nation of immigrants. However, our
forefathers were required to come in legally, through the front door.

During the great wave of immigration in the latter 19th and early 20th
centuries, when many of our ancestors came through Ellis Island, physical exams
were performed to keep out those with infectious diseases like tuberculosis.
This was not cruel; rather, it was essential to ensure the safety and well-being
of the nation as a whole.

In the same way, the back door of illegal immigration must be sealed off - not
out of spite, but to ensure the future for all citizens, whether native-born,
naturalized or those to come, legally, in the future.

Surely, the American spirit is one of optimism, the yearning for a better life.
But this does not suggest that all those living outside of our borders are
entitled to violate our laws and illegally gain entrance. The American dream is
not limited to those living on American soil, but we as a nation must restrict
access as we have done historically. Jeffrey H. Citrin - Chesterfield

Mall Plan Irrational

I am writing in reference to the plan to condemn the property across from the
Galleria Shopping Center, on the east side of Brentwood Boulevard. The plan
includes construction of a mall funded in part by property taxes. A lawsuit has
been filed in federal court to fight this proposal. It would be a misuse of tax
dollars to condemn this thriving area or to fund a legal battle in support of
the plan.

The businesses in this area are thriving. I have used their services at least
weekly for years. Now it is suggested that our property taxes should fund a new
shopping development on this site.

The businesses within a shopping development should be paying taxes, as the
present businesses have been doing. Use of our tax dollars (more than $ 4, 000
for every household in Richmond Heights) to build a shopping development is
irrational! The profits from sales should support the project. If this private
project is not economically viable, then the need has not been justified!

Richmond Heights and the John Buck Co. need to withdraw their proposal and let
this neighborhood continue to be a neighborhood or, at the very least, let the
taxpayers decide for themselves!

Deborah E. Schneider - Richmond Heights

Catholic Teachers

In an Aug. 15 letter, L.E. Rodgers compared parochial elementary school teachers
to Peace Corps volunteers, and stated that maybe some of these teachers are in
jobs not right for them.

Rodgers doesn't have all the facts. I am one of these 2,300 teachers. Unlike a
Peace Corps volunteer, who is usually single, serves a stint of several years
and volunteers for the job, I was hired for the job. I also have a family to
help support and bills to pay. Teaching is my lifetime profession, and it is
right for me.

I chose to teach in a school where religion and morals are taught daily. Does
this make me any less qualified, capable or educated than my fellow teachers in
the public and secondary schools? Should I have to settle for anything less? I
think not.

J.F. Schneider - St. Charles

In his Aug. 15 letter, L.E. Rogers made some points that need clarification.
Catholic elementary teachers are interested in the same benefits as Catholic
high school teachers. Catholic teachers at all levels know that our pay will
never rival that of our public counterparts. However, it is only fair that all
certified Catholic teachers are on the same Catholic pay scale.

Rogers also needs to understand that Catholic high school teachers can send
their child to an archdiocesan high school for free; a Catholic elementary
teacher only receives a $ 500 credit. The tuition at Catholic high schools in
our area rings in at $ 3,100 to $ 4,200. Take a teacher making $ 19,000 a year
and deduct Catholic high school tuition and then elementary tuition for another
child and you will see what she is left with!

I teach in a Catholic school and absolutely love it. Every morning I look
forward to working with my students, principal, fellow teachers and parents. But
I wonder why the disparity in benefits between elementary and high school
Catholic teachers? I wonder how I will be able to afford to send my daughters to
a Catholic high school.

Gail Gengler - Florissant

Fear Of Crime

Many people I have talked with are appalled at the remarks that were made by
Mayor Tom Brown of St. Peters. After the last election, Brown was quoted as
saying that the failure to pass the tax for MetroLink was due in a large part to
the fear of crime on the part of residents who had moved from North County.

Brown is apparently another political figure who shoots from the hip and never
does his homework. If he would read a Missouri State Highway Patrol publication
concerning crime in Missouri, he would find that his city, when compared to
other cities of similar size such as Florissant, does not have the high grade
that he apparently believes that it does.

I would call to his attention the following comparison of similar-size cities as
to the 1995 total index of crimes consisting of murder, rape, assault, robbery,
burglary, stealings and motor vehicle theft:

Florissant, 1,379.

St. Peters, 1,853.

It is time for metropolitan cooperation in many areas, including mass transit.
If we continue to be divided, we are only creating an atmosphere that will not
be conducive to business either staying or coming into the St. Louis area. And I
would note that St. Charles County is a part of this area. G. Joe Schulte, Jr. -
President North County Inc. - Jennings

The Aug. 15 letter from Gentry Trotter of Defiance is absolutely right.

Many people in St. Charles County need a reality check if they are afraid of
lower-class people coming into St. Charles. Guess what? We alre ady have
lower-class people here and they are called bigots. I think St. Peters Mayor Tom
Brown should go on the top of that list and the list of those who should not be
re-elected.

And finally, I would like to apologize to those in North County and in the city
who were offended by what Brown said - he does not speak for us all. Lisa
Gilbreath - St. Charles

Illness Of The Mind

The articles that have been written about Lloyd Grass, who walked away from St.
Louis State Hospital, disturb me. The articles give the erroneous impression
that anyone with a mental illness is prone to commit violence.

The truth is that the majority of people with a mental illness are not violent
and actually are more likely to be victims of violence than perpetrators of
violence.

It makes me sad and angry that in 1996, in the age of medical science, mentally
ill people are still viewed as less than human when, in fact, they deserve to
receive the same respect that a person with another disease, such as cancer or
diabetes, receives. Mental illness is a disease, not a character flaw.

Joan Milligan - Rock Hill

LOAD-DATE: August 22, 1996

LANGUAGE: English

TYPE: LETTERS

                  Copyright 1996 St. Louis Post-Dispatch, Inc.


                              17 of 457 DOCUMENTS

                       St. Louis Post-Dispatch (Missouri)

               September 29, 1996, Sunday, FIVE STAR LIFT Edition

GOP AND WHITE HOUSE MAKE IMMIGRATION DEAL

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 11A

LENGTH: 431 words

DATELINE: WASHINGTON


Republican leaders, bowing to White House demands, agreed Saturday to remove the
most controversial provisions from a bill clamping down on illegal immigration,
paving the way for congressional approval.

A deal reached in negotiations that stretched overnight into Saturday morning
stripped language that would have made even legal immigrants liable for
deportation if they used government relief programs for one year out of their
first seven in the country.

It also eased proposed income standards required of Americans seeking to sponsor
entry of close family members.

And it dropped a provision that would have allowed states to deny public
education to children who are illegal aliens.

President Bill Clinton hailed the accord during a trip to Rhode Island, saying
it combated illegal immigration "without hurting innocent children or punishing
legal immigrants."

The revised immigration measure was to be included in a huge bill funding much
of the government for the coming fiscal year, which starts Tuesday. A vote in
the House was expected late Saturday, with the Senate voting Monday or Tuesday.

Many Democrats had called the provisions in parts of a section called Title 5,
targeting legal immigrants, "mean-spirited" and the White House refused to
accept them.

Rep. Howard Berman, D-Calif., who served on the congressional negotiating team,
said: "Basically, all the worst provisions of Title 5 are out."

The agreement also removed a ban on government-paid treatment for AIDS for legal
and illegal aliens.

House Speaker Newt Gingrich, R-Ga., told a news conference that Republicans had
yielded to the White House on some issues "in order to get everything done."

He said the administration had been adamant on allowing an illegal immigrant to
have government-paid treatment for AIDS as well as emergency medical services.

The immigration bill approved by the House earlier this week would have required
a sponsor of an immigrant to have an income of 140 percent of poverty level to
sponsor immigration of a spouse or minor child or 200 percent to sponsor other
close family members.

Under the accord, a sponsor would need an income of 125 percent of poverty
level, and greater flexibility is allowed.

The idea is to make sure the immigrant does not become a public charge. But
critics had said millions of Americans would have been denied the right to
petition for family members to enter the Unites States.

The House author of the bill, Rep. Lamar Smith, R-Texas, said all provisions
aimed at stemming illegal immigration were retained.

LOAD-DATE: September 30, 1996

LANGUAGE: English

                  Copyright 1996 St. Louis Post-Dispatch, Inc.


                              18 of 457 DOCUMENTS

                       St. Louis Post-Dispatch (Missouri)

               September 29, 1996, Sunday, FIVE STAR LIFT Edition

KEY HOUSE VOTES / KEY SENATE VOTES

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 8D

LENGTH: 421 words


KEY HOUSE VOTES

PENSIONS: The House voted, 391-32, to deny congressional pensions to members of
congress who are convicted of a felony, committed while in office, relating to
official business. This would take effect next year. A yes vote backed the bill.
(HR 4011)

MISSOURI

Clay (D) NO

Gephardt (D) YES

Volkmer (D) YES

Talent (R) YES

ILLINOIS

Costello (D) YES

Poshard (D) YES

Durbin (D) YES

IMMIGRANTS: The House OK'd, 305-123, the conference report on a bill combating
illegal immigration while limiting public benefits to legal immigrants. A yes
vote was to support the bill, which doubles the current force of U.S. border
guards. (HR 2202)

MISSOURI

Clay (D) NO

Gephardt (D) NO

Volkmer (D) YES

Talent (R) YES

ILLINOIS

Costello (D) YES

Poshard (D) YES

Durbin (D) NO

HIRING: The House rejected, 179-247, a Democratic rewrite of pending immigration
legislation (above). In part, it increased Labor Department activities against
employers who hire illegal aliens. A yes vote was to support the proposal. (HR
2202)

MISSOURI

Clay (D) YES

Gephardt (D) YES

Volkmer (D) YES

Talent (R) NO

ILLINOIS

Costello (D) YES

Poshard (D) YES

Durbin (D) YES

EDUCATION: The House approved, 254-175, a bill allowing states to deny public
education to children of illegal immigrants. Students enrolled for the current
academic year could remain in school through grade 12. A yes vote was to support
the bill. (HR 4134)

MISSOURI

Clay (D) NO

Gephardt (D) NO

Volkmer (D) YES

Talent (R) NO

ILLINOIS

Costello (D) YES

Poshard (D) YES

Durbin (D) NO

KEY SENATE VOTES

ABORTION: The Senate failed, 57-41, to reach the two-thirds majority needed to
override President Clinton's veto of a bill that makes it a crime for doctors to
perform a certain late-term abortion procedure. A yes vote was to override the
veto. (HR 1833)

MISSOURI

Bond (R) YES

Ashcroft (R) YES

ILLINOIS

Simon (D) NO

Moseley-Braun (D) NO

SUBSIDIES: The Senate passed, 88-10, a bill providing $ 100 million annually
over 10 years to subsidize operating costs of about 50 merchant marine ships
with annual payments of about $ 2 million each. A yes vote was to support the
bill. (S 1350)

MISSOURI

Bond (R) YES

Ashcroft (R) YES

ILLINOIS

Simon (D) YES

Moseley-Braun (D) YES

Votes for the week ending SEPT. 27

TO CONTACT YOUR LEGISLATORS AT THE U.S. CAPITOL:

By phone, (202) 224-3121

By mail (ZIP codes) House 20515, Senate 20510

SOURCE: 1996, Thomas Reports, Inc.

LOAD-DATE: September 30, 1996

LANGUAGE: English

                  Copyright 1996 St. Louis Post-Dispatch, Inc.


                              19 of 457 DOCUMENTS

                       St. Louis Post-Dispatch (Missouri)

                  October 1, 1996, Tuesday, THREE STAR Edition

SENATE PASSES BILL AIMED AT THWARTING ILLEGAL IMMIGRATION

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 5A

LENGTH: 460 words

DATELINE: WASHINGTON


Despite lingering misgivings, Senate Democrats threw their support behind
immigration legislation that Republicans say will enable the government to slow
illegal immigration.

After marathon negotiations over the weekend, the House-passed measure was
included in a $ 389 billion bill that set budgets for nine Cabinet departments
for the new fiscal year, which begins today.

"This is a bill . . . that will help us make a huge impact involving illegal
immigration," Sen. Charles Grassley, R-Iowa., said shortly before the Senate
passed it Monday. "Anyone who does not support this bill is simply not serious
about dealing with illegal immigration."

After President Bill Clinton demanded changes in a previous version of the
measure, Democrats and Republicans agreed on a plan that would increase
penalties for alien smuggling and for producing the phony documents that many
illegal immigrants use to get U.S. jobs.

The measure also would almost double the size of the Border Patrol by increasing
the number of officers by 1,000 a year for the next five years. Local police and
other law enforcement officers would have new authority to arrest illegal
immigrants, which they cannot do now.

Illegal aliens would face more severe penalties and a faster deportation
process. Welfare workers would be allowed to check immigrants' legal status
before giving them welfare checks.

"This is the most significant illegal-immigration-control bill in a generation,"
said Rep. Lamar Smith, R-Texas, who introduced the measure. The bill "will
secure America's borders, reduce the flow of illegal drugs, protect American
jobs and save American taxpayers billions of dollars," he said.

Sen. Dianne Feinstein, D-Calif., said: "People should not have to force the
federal government to live up to its responsibility to enforce its borders. We
have a responsibility to take action now."

Before the changes, some Democrats had complained that the measure did little to
punish businesses that hired illegal immigrants and was too harsh on legal
immigrants.

After almost round-the-clock talks, Republicans agreed to soften a provision
requiring legal U.S. residents to earn up to 200 percent of the poverty level
before they can sponsor foreign relatives into the country as immigrants.
Minimum income levels were set instead at 125 percent of the poverty level, up
from the 100 percent required by current law.

Also dropped was a provision that would have put legal immigrants in danger of
deportation if they received 12 months of public benefits within their first
seven years in this country.

Language that would have barred immigrants from using Medicaid to pay for
treatment of AIDS or HIV infection was struck at the insistence of the White
House.

LOAD-DATE: October 2, 1996

LANGUAGE: English

                  Copyright 1996 St. Louis Post-Dispatch, Inc.


                              20 of 457 DOCUMENTS

                       St. Louis Post-Dispatch (Missouri)

               February 8, 1997, Saturday, FIVE STAR LIFT EDITION

5 MILLION ILLEGAL ALIENS IN U.S., SAYS INS

BYLINE: AP

SECTION: NEWS, Pg. 23

LENGTH: 432 words

DATELINE: WASHINGTON


An immigration official cites "insufficient resources and attention" to the
problem but also cites "significant progress."

Five million illegal aliens - nearly 2 percent of the total U.S. population -
are living in the United States, the Immigration and Naturalization Service said
Friday.

It was the first official estimate of the elusive population count in four
years.

"If there is one idea that comes out of looking at these numbers it is - as we
have said many, many times before - that over the past two decades or so the
country has had insufficient resources and attention to the illegal immigration
problem," said Robert Bach, the immigration service's executive associate
commissioner. "And it has accumulated to where it is now a large and substantial
issue."

Yet, said Bach, "We have no reason to believe the problem is getting worse. In
fact we have every reason to believe that we are making significant progress."

The INS budget has doubled since 1993, from $ 1.5 billion to $ 3.1 billion. With
more personnel, equipment and programs, the INS is deporting more people,
beefing up enforcement at the Southwestern border and ensuring that fewer
illegal immigrants get work, he said.

Bach's view wasn't universally shared.

"It is a huge indictment of the ineffectiveness of our immigration service that
there are so many illegal aliens in this country," said Dan Stein, executive
director of the Federation for American Immigration Reform.

Stein, a critic of the immigration policies of the administration of President
Bill Clinton, accused the agency of focusing too little attention on enforcement
beyond the Southwestern border.

Stein said that with the undocumented immigrant population growing by an
estimated 275,000 people a year, at a time when the immigration service is
deporting fewer than 100,000 people a year, "The way the INS is going, it's like
emptying a bathtub with a teaspoon without turning off the faucet."

The illegal-immigrant population is fairly close to what it was before passage
of a sweeping 1986 immigration law that gave amnesty, in the form of
citizenship, to nearly 3 million people who were here illegally. Before that -
depending on who is doing the counting - anywhere from 4.8 million to 6 million
people were here unlawfully.

The latest estimates, based largely on Census data, cover illegal immigrants who
live here at least a year, not those who slip in for a few days or months and
then return home. INS said its estimates, which could be off by as much as
400,000 people, erred on the high side.

LOAD-DATE: February 10, 1997

LANGUAGE: English

                  Copyright 1997 St. Louis Post-Dispatch, Inc.


                              21 of 457 DOCUMENTS

                       St. Louis Post-Dispatch (Missouri)

                April 2, 1997, Wednesday, FIVE STAR LIFT EDITION

LAW MAKES DEPORTATION EASIER, IMMIGRATION MORE DIFFICULT

BYLINE: AP

SECTION: NEWS, Pg. 05A

LENGTH: 417 words

DATELINE: WASHINGTON


A new law that makes it easier for the government to deport illegal immigrants
and block the entry of others took effect Tuesday after a federal court turned
back a challenge by immigrant-rights groups.

"We're going forward. The law and accompanying regulations are being implemented
as originally planned," said Andrew Lluberes, a spokesman for the Immigration
and Naturalization Service.

But the law has thousands of illegal and legal immigrants fearing the future.
Several hundred people, many of them Haitians, took to the streets Tuesday near
an INS office in Miami to vent their frustrations. Many of the immigrants had
come to the United States in search of new lives.

"Now all of a sudden they've changed the rules. They're telling them to go back
home," said Cheryl Little, executive director of the Florida Immigrant Advocacy
Center.

In Washington, both sides returned to court Tuesday as the American Civil
Liberties Union and the Lawyers' Committee for Civil Rights pursued another part
of their complaint. A judge scheduled a hearing on that issue for Friday.

Having lost their bid to delay the law's starting date, the groups want U.S.
District Judge Emmet Sullivan to issue a temporary restraining order blocking
provisions that deal with political asylum for immigrants.

Under the new law, INS officers may refuse entry to anyone bearing invalid or
fraudulent documents unless a credible fear of persecution or asylum claim is
made. It also reduces the rights of federal courts to review decisions about
deportation and exclusion.

Advocates for immigrants maintain the INS is violating the law and the intent of
Congress by not ordering immigration officers routinely to inform people of
their right to apply for asylum and consult with an attorney.

INS says immigrants will be told of that right at a point in the process called
"secondary inspection." If the initial INS agent isn't sure how to proceed, the
immigrant is sent to another agent. If the second agent denies admission, the
individual must be told of the right to apply for asylum.

But advocates say they should be informed much earlier in the process.

On Monday, the groups scored a brief victory when Sullivan decided that the law
shouldn't take effect until Saturday. They argued that the government failed to
publish regulations implementing the provision 30 days before it was to take
effect, as administrative law requires.

But an appeals court overturned Sullivan early Tuesday.

LOAD-DATE: April 2, 1997

LANGUAGE: English

                  Copyright 1997 St. Louis Post-Dispatch, Inc.


                              22 of 457 DOCUMENTS

                       St. Louis Post-Dispatch (Missouri)

                 August 6, 1997, Wednesday, THREE STAR EDITION

ADVISERS WANT INS ELIMINATED, OTHER AGENCIES TO ASSUME DUTIES

BYLINE: Compiled From News Services

SECTION: NEWS, Pg. 07A

LENGTH: 312 words

DATELINE: NEW YORK


The Immigration and Naturalization Service would be disbanded and its
responsibilities farmed out under a proposal by an advisory panel, The New York
Times reported Tuesday.

The Immigration Service now suffers from "mission overload," according to a
draft copy of a report by the U.S. Commission on Immigration Reform.

Under the proposal, the Justice Department - currently the parent agency of the
Immigration Service - would retain responsibility for controlling the border and
removing illegal immigrants.

The State Department would oversee immigration services and benefits, such as
applications for citizenship. The Labor Department would be charged with
enforcing laws governing the hiring of foreign workers.

Congress set up the bipartisan commission in 1990 to help advise lawmakers on
immigration issues.

Former Rep. Bruce Morrison, D-Conn., a commission member, said the eight-member
panel had considered setting up an independent immigration agency but decided
that it would be more effective to assign some of the Immigration Service's
duties to other agencies.

Officials in President Bill Clinton's administration expect the report to be the
starting point for a debate over how to manage the country's immigration system,
according to the Times.

Many state and federal leaders have expressed frustration with the Immigration
Service's failure to control rising citizenship applications, a steady flow of
illegal immigrants and criminal aliens living in the United States.

The Immigration and Naturalization Service has been one of the federal
government's fastest-growing agencies in recent years. Its $ 3.1 billion budget
this fiscal year is double its budget of four years ago.

Officials of the agency said the commission's proposals would reverse this
financial investment and ignore improvements that the agency has made.

LOAD-DATE: August 6, 1997

LANGUAGE: English

                  Copyright 1997 St. Louis Post-Dispatch, Inc.


                              23 of 457 DOCUMENTS

                       St. Louis Post-Dispatch (Missouri)

               August 6, 1997, Wednesday, FIVE STAR LIFT EDITION

PANEL SUGGESTS DOING AWAY WITH THE INS

BYLINE: Compiled From News Services

SECTION: NEWS, Pg. 08A

LENGTH: 260 words

DATELINE: NEW YORK


The Immigration and Naturalization Service would be disbanded and its
responsibilities farmed out under a proposal by an advisory panel, The New York
Times reported Tuesday.

The Immigration Service now suffers from "mission overload," according to a
draft copy of a report by the U.S. Commission on Immigration Reform.

Under the proposal, the Justice Department - currently the parent agency of the
Immigration Service - would retain responsibility for controlling the border and
removing illegal immigrants.

The State Department would oversee immigration services and benefits, such as
applications for citizenship. The Labor Department would be charged with
enforcing laws governing the hiring of foreign workers.

Congress set up the bipartisan commission in 1990.

Former Rep. Bruce Morrison, D-Conn., a commission member, said the eight-member
panel had considered setting up an independent immigration agency but decided
that it would be more effective to assign some of the Immigration Service's
duties to other agencies.

Officials in President Bill Clinton's administration expect the report to be the
starting point for a debate over how to manage the immigration system, according
to the Times.

Many state and federal leaders have expressed frustration with the Immigration
Service's failure to control illegal immigrants and criminal aliens living in
the United States.

Officials of the agency said the commission's proposals would reverse this
financial investment and ignore improvements that the agency has made.

LOAD-DATE: August 6, 1997

LANGUAGE: English

                  Copyright 1997 St. Louis Post-Dispatch, Inc.


                              24 of 457 DOCUMENTS

                       St. Louis Post-Dispatch (Missouri)

               October 1, 1997, Wednesday, FIVE STAR LIFT EDITION

CONGRESS GIVES ILLEGAL IMMIGRANTS A REPRIEVE;
THEY HAVE 3 MORE WEEKS TO SEEK LEGAL STATUS

BYLINE: AP

SECTION: NEWS, Pg. 12A

LENGTH: 447 words

DATELINE: WASHINGTON


Congress acted with just hours to spare Tuesday to give thousands of illegal
immigrants three more weeks to seek legal residence instead of having to leave
the country immediately.

The reprieve - through Oct. 23 - was included in a bill keeping federal agencies
financed for the start of the 1998 fiscal year, which begins today. The Senate
approved the overall measure without debate, 99-0, with only Sen. Patrick Leahy,
D-Vt., missing the vote.

President Bill Clinton will sign the bill "whenever we get it," said White House
spokesman Joe Lockhart. The House approved the measure Monday, 355-57.

Final congressional action came as lawyers, charitable organizations and other
groups were flooded by thousands of calls from immigrants worried that the grace
period was about to expire.

A 1994 law lets some undocumented immigrants file in the United States for legal
status instead of at U.S. consulates. To do so, they must pay a $ 1,000 fine.

The provision applies only to illegal immigrants who are eligible for legal
residence, either because they are already in line for visas or are the spouse
or minor child of a U.S. citizen. Parents of adult children who are U.S.
citizens also can apply.

Lawmakers will decide next month whether to renew the provision for a longer
period. The Senate already has approved a permanent extension.

No More Tired And Poor?

The Commission on Immigration Reform wrapped up five years of work Tuesday by
calling for better "Americanization" of immigrants to rewriting the citizenship
oath and dismantling the Immigration and Naturalization Service.

The commission would limit the number of legal immigrants but also would exclude
unskilled and poorly educated immigrants.

"The commission continues to recommend that immigrants be chosen on the basis of
the skills they contribute to the U.S. economy," the commission wrote in a
summary of its report.

"Only if there is a compelling national interest, such as nuclear family
reunification or humanitarian admissions, should immigrants be admitted without
regard to the economic contributions they can make," the summary states.

The commission suggested integrating immigrants into U.S. society by providing
"orientation" materials to new arrivals and by placing a greater emphasis on
teaching immigrants English.

The panel recommended that the Justice Department, where the INS is cu rrently
based, maintain the Border Patrol and most other law-enforcement activities.

The responsibility for visas and citizenship would be moved to the State
Department, and the Labor Department would take over enforcement of laws against
hiring illegal immigrants.

LOAD-DATE: October 2, 1997

LANGUAGE: English

                  Copyright 1997 St. Louis Post-Dispatch, Inc.


                              25 of 457 DOCUMENTS

                       St. Louis Post-Dispatch (Missouri)

               October 11, 1997, Saturday, FIVE STAR LIFT EDITION

CHANGE IN LAW MAY CAUSE MESS AT CANADIAN BORDER

BYLINE: 1997,; Knight-Ridder Newspapers

SECTION: NEWS, Pg. 2B

LENGTH: 675 words

DATELINE: WASHINGTON


half-mile below the Canadian border, in the scenic northern Minnesota town of
Grand Portage, sits a store the locals call Ryden's.

The shop is where tourists go to buy T-shirts and where area residents go for a
quick bite to eat.  It's also where Canadians go to buy cheap gasoline and
duty-free liquor.

As her business flourishes, Lori Ryden-Boomer is bothered by the nagging thought
that new immigration rules will make it more difficult for Canadians to get
there.  Customers are already complaining.

"It's a source of concern for us," said Ryden-Boomer, whose family has owned the
border shop for 50 years.  "If they don't come, business will definitely go
down."

Tucked away in the Illegal Immigration Reforem and Immigrant Responsibility Act
of 1996 is a new method of formally documenting the arrival and departures of
foreigners.  The provision is to take effect late next year.

The U.S. law was written to address the large flow of illegal immigrants, most
of them entering from Mexico.  But critics - including some in Congress - say
the measure illustrates how the northern border is often overlooded in the
larger illegal immigration debate.

They are outraged that the country would require people crossing the Canadian
border to produce identification documents when they've never had to before.
The result, they say , will be mile-long traffic jams at border crossing points
and a disruption of trade and tourism between the United States and Canada.

"Just pause for a moment and visualize what this means," said D.G. Waddell, an
economics official at the Canadian Embassy in Washington.  "Frankly, we are
alarmed, disappointed, and just a little frustrated."

Lawmakers say the frustration is justified, though it may be short-lived. The
two authors of the immigration law - Rep. Lamar Smith, R-Texas, chairman of the
House immigration subcommittee, and former Sen. Alan Simpson, R-Wyo. - said they
never intended for the documentation requirement to apply to Canadians.

At least two lawmakers - Sen. Byron Dorgan, D-N.-D., and Rep. John LaFalce,
D-N.Y. - are trying to amend the law to exclude America's northern border from
the documentation requirement.

"The oversight in this provision is the failure to exempt the Canadian nationals
who previously have not been required to fill out documents," said "LaFalce,
whose district in northern New York is visited heavily by Canadians. "If the
(United States) were to implement the entry and exit procedure, traffic would
turn into a nightmare at the border."

Even Immigration and Naturalization Service officials said they would support
congressional language to ease the furor.

Here's why:

According to the Canadian Embassy, more than 116 million people entered the
United States by land from Canada last year, 76 million of them Canadian.  In 95
percent of those crossings, border patrol agents simply asked quick questions
about where the traveler was headed in the United States and why.

Under the new immigration law, all travelers would have to show some kind of
identification document, although exactly what is unclear.  The border agent
would then log that traveler's information for future reference, causing the
traveler to stop for what could be several minutes.

The identification rules would also apply to everyone:  Americans returning home
after a visit to Canada, people who cross daily for jobs on the other side of
the border, family members visiting relatives.   "Optimistically, the new
controls might take an extra two minutes per border crosser," said Sen. Spencer
Abraham, R-Mich., who opposed the provision.  "That's almost 17 hours of delay
for every hour's worth of traffic."

Still others question the move to exempt the northern border.

"Some people would say it's unfair to exempt one group of people and not
another," said Bill Strassberger, a spokesman for the immigration service. "They
see the conflict, but they say illegal immigration is illegal no matter what
border you're looking at."

LOAD-DATE: October 15, 1997

LANGUAGE: English

                  Copyright 1997 St. Louis Post-Dispatch, Inc.


                              26 of 457 DOCUMENTS

                       St. Louis Post-Dispatch (Missouri)

              November 27, 1997, Thursday, FIVE STAR LIFT EDITION

MOYNIHAN BACKS STUDY THAT CALLS FOR OPEN BORDERS

BYLINE: Newsday

SECTION: NEWS, Pg. A15

LENGTH: 260 words

DATELINE: WASHINGTON


Daniel Patrick Moynihan, the Senate's professorial expert on social policy, says
Congress should take a look at some unconventional research on immigration
control.

Instead of cracking down on illegal immigrants - the current trend in
immigration law - this study advocates loosening up.

The New York Democrat cites research on Mexican immigration patterns by
professor Douglas Massey, chairman of the Department of Sociology at the
University of Pennsylvania. Massey's research has shown that enforcement at the
border does not discourage immigrants from coming. Instead, it discourages them
from going home, changing a seasonal flow into something more permanent. He
maintains, therefore, that tough immigration policy backfires.

"Immigration is a funny thing," Moynihan said. "If you tear down the walls, and
abolish all the immigration stations, 85 percent of illegal Mexican immigrants
go home.

"They get a job, they earn enough money to buy an automobile, they go home and
buy it. But if it turns out that once you get over the border, it turns out you
might not get back, you won't go home."

"So, take down the walls, and you make sure this migration will continue,"
Moynihan said.

But Moynihan has enough political savvy to note that this idea is like ly to
gain no currency in today's political climate.

"It's counterintuitive and don't expect anybody in the U.S. government to figure
it out," he said.

So, what about advocating it on his own?

"I just point out the uses of social science," he said. "I'm not that dopey."

LOAD-DATE: November 27, 1997

LANGUAGE: English

GRAPHIC: PHOTO, Photo From THE ASSOCIATED PRESS - Sen. Daniel Patrick Moynihan
says barriers only keep illegal immigrants from going home, because they fear
they won't be able to return.

                  Copyright 1997 St. Louis Post-Dispatch, Inc.


                              27 of 457 DOCUMENTS

                       St. Louis Post-Dispatch (Missouri)

                  August 16, 1998, Sunday, THREE STAR EDITION

U.S. WILL CRACK DOWN ON IMMIGRANT SMUGGLING

BYLINE: Reuters News Service

SECTION: NEWS, Pg. A14

LENGTH: 277 words

DATELINE: SAN DIEGO


The U.S. Border Patrol vowed Thursday to crack down on smugglers of human beings
after the bodies of nine suspected illegal immigrants were found in the desert
north of the U.S.-Mexican border.

"This is a tragedy," agency spokesman Mario Villarreal said after two more
bodies were found following the discovery of seven mummified corpses in the
blazing sun Wednesday.

Villarreal said the Border Patrol was looking at ways to crack down on so-called
coyotes, who smuggle people over the border from Mexico for money.

"(We) will show our commitment to catch these callous smugglers who are taking
these people's lives in their hands and abandoning them in areas where there are
terrible conditions," he said.

In all, 86 Mexicans have died this year trying to cross the border into
California, according to the Mexican Consulate. In all of last year, there were
85 deaths.

"Right now we face a very difficult situation," Carlos Felix, deputy Mexican
consul for San Diego, said. "People risk their lives attempting to cross. This
is a fact."

Seven bodies, mummified by exposure to the scorching sun for about a week, were
found Wednesday by a rancher about 12 miles from the desert community of Salton
City. The seven had removed their clothes in an attempt to stay cool.

Border Patrol agents traveling to the scene, some 60 miles north of the border,
found another body nearby later that night. In addition, an illegal immigrant
apparently drowned while trying to swim a canal between Mexico and the United
States.

In Yuma, Arizona, an illegal immigrant died of exposure this week in a hospital
after being picked up by agents near San Luis.

LOAD-DATE: August 17, 1998

LANGUAGE: English

                  Copyright 1998 St. Louis Post-Dispatch, Inc.


                              28 of 457 DOCUMENTS

                       St. Louis Post-Dispatch (Missouri)

                    May 18, 1997, Sunday, THREE STAR EDITION

3 CHINESE MEN CONVICTED OF SCAM TO SMUGGLE IMMIGRANTS INTO U.S.

BYLINE: 1997,; Boston Globe

SECTION: NEWS, Pg. 13A

LENGTH: 387 words

DATELINE: BOSTON


A federal jury has convicted three Chinese men of trying to smuggle 100
undocumented Chinese immigrants into the United States last summer via
Massachusetts.

After 2 1/2 weeks of testimony, the jury in U.S. District Court needed just a
few hours Thursday to convict the three - the captain of a rusting freighter and
two crew members.

Ben Lin, the ship's captain, as well as the two crew members, Mao Bing Mu and
Sang Li, face up to 10 years in prison for each undocumented immigrant, and a $
250,000 fine when they are sentenced July 25 by U.S. District Judge Robert E.
Keeton.

The three were part of a ring based in New York; the ringleaders previously have
pleaded guilty to the same charges.

The Xing Da, the rundown freighter that set sail from the province of Fujian in
southern China last July, never delivered its human cargo. The ship was
intercepted off Bermuda Oct. 2 by the Coast Guard, capping a sting operation
that began in a Dorchester, Mass., hotel room the year before.

Last summer, the organizers hired a man whom they believed was the owner of a
fishing boat out of Falmouth, Mass., to rendezvous with the Xing Da and pick up
the immigrants at a predetermined point off Bermuda.

The plan called for the immigrants to be transported to Massachusetts, where
they would be kept until their families borrowed $ 24,000 to $ 28,000 - the cost
of the voyage - from loan sharks. Once the money was paid, the immigrants were
to have been transported to New York.

But the fishing boat's captain and the owner were actually undercover agents for
the Coast Guard and the Immigration and Naturalization Service.

During the trial, three passengers aboard the Xing Da described living in the
ship's squalid cargo hold for 54 days, sleeping on straw mats spread on sand.
There were no bathrooms or eating areas in the hold. Twice-daily meals consisted
of a bucket of rice and dried turnips to be shared among 10 people.

One passenger, a laborer, 25, seeking to earn a better living for his wife and
children in China, said he was given just four small bottles of mineral water
during the voyage. Finally overcome by thirst, he fashioned a makeshift cup out
of an empty water bottle and dipped it into a tank of oily water in the ship's
hold. For that, he testified, he was beaten with sticks.

LOAD-DATE: May 18, 1997

LANGUAGE: English

                  Copyright 1997 St. Louis Post-Dispatch, Inc.


                              29 of 457 DOCUMENTS

                       St. Louis Post-Dispatch (Missouri)

                   June 22, 1997, Sunday, THREE STAR EDITION

U.S. AGENCY GOING OVERSEAS TO STOP ILLEGAL IMMIGRATION

BYLINE: 1997,; Los Angeles Times

SECTION: NEWS, Pg. 14D

LENGTH: 411 words

DATELINE: WASHINGTON


The Immigration and Naturalization Service plans to open 13 additional offices
overseas and to post criminal investigators abroad to thwart the smuggling of
"human cargo."

The sweeping program, stretching from China to West Africa to South America,
"gives us an important new tool to help stem the flow of migrant trafficking at
its very source," INS Commissioner Doris Meissner said at a news conference
Thursday.

Spurring the $ 8.2 million program is the conclusion that it is much cheaper to
deter people from immigrating illegally than attempting to find, detain and
deport them once they get here.

The INS expansion will include two new offices in China - one in Beijing and
another in Guangzhou, long a trafficking center. Three new INS offices will open
in Central America, two each in the Caribbean, Africa and South America, along
with offices in Tokyo and Copenhagen, Denmark. With the additions, the INS will
have a total of 35 offices abroad.

The new facilities will be staffed by 45 additional officers versed in the
intricacies of international smuggling rings.

Officials say sophisticated criminal smuggling syndicates, sometimes allied with
drug traffickers, are cashing in on the multibillion dollar traffic of illegal
immigrants across the globe. The movement has expanded significantly since the
end of the Cold War.

According to current estimates, up to 1 million people are now planning to
migrate illegally to either the United States or Europe. Many will turn to
professional smuggling rings. Fees vary greatly. Mexican "coyotes" working the
U.S.-Mexico border may charge as little as $ 300 to take a client to Los
Angeles. Chinese smugglers have been known to collect as much as $ 50,000.

In some extreme cases, investigators have found that smuggled migrants arriving
here were held in virtual servitude for years until they could work off their
debts to traffickers.

Perhaps the most notorious example was the case of 72 Thai workers forced to
toil virtually around the clock at a clandestine El Monte, Calif., garment
factory east of downtown Los Angeles that was discovered two years ago and shut
down.

The potential for huge profits means that bribery and official corruption are
widespread. Jerry Wolf Stuchiner, the former INS chief in Hong Kong and
Honduras, has been jailed in Hong Kong on charges stemming from an alleged
scheme to sell Honduran passports to Asians seeking to settle in the United
States.

LOAD-DATE: June 23, 1997

LANGUAGE: English

                  Copyright 1997 St. Louis Post-Dispatch, Inc.


                              30 of 457 DOCUMENTS

                       St. Louis Post-Dispatch (Missouri)

               October 9, 1997, Thursday, FIVE STAR LIFT EDITION

ARRESTS IN AREA POINT TO MAJOR SMUGGLING RING;
36 SUSPECTED ILLEGAL ALIENS FROM MEXICO WERE WORKING AT 3 LOCAL RESTAURANTS

BYLINE: Deborah Peterson; Of The Post-Dispatch Staff

SECTION: NEWS, Pg. 01B

LENGTH: 639 words


Federal authorities said Wednesday that they might have broken up a major ring
smuggling people from Mexico into Illinois and Missouri when they arrested 36
suspected illegal aliens at three area restaurants.

"We're talking about smuggling," said Chester Moyer, head of the St. Louis
office of the Immigration and Naturalization Service. "For the St. Louis area, a
total of 36 aliens working together is a fairly substantial number."

Most of those arrested Tuesday came from the same area in Mexico, elu ded
officials at the same border crossing and appear to have been directed to the
Midwest, Moyer said.

Those characteristics indicate an organized smuggling ring. Moyer added that the
36 people in custody would be charged with criminal violations, which take
precedence over deportation proceedings.

Two of those arrested were juveniles who were carrying false adult
identification, Moyer said. He added that the juveniles probably will be
deported rather than face charges.

Meanwhile, the U.S. attorney's office for the Southern District of Illinois was
preparing criminal complaints to be brought against the aliens, said Joel
Merkel, an assistant U.S. attorney and a spokesman for the office.

The arrests were part of an investigation of employment of illegal aliens,
fraudulent use of Social Security numbers and failure to register with the
immigration service, said U.S. Attorney W. Charles Grace.

The aliens were arrested at Cancun Mexican Restaurants in Collinsville, Swansea
and at Northwest Plaza in St. Louis County. Fourteen people were arrested in
Collinsville, 11 in Swansea and 11 in St. Ann.

The immigration service also executed search warrants against the managers of
the three restaurants to try to determine whether they knowingly employed
workers with phony citizenship papers. Moyer said it is a crime to employ a
person who the company knows to be an illegal alien or to not make a reasonable
effort to determine if an employee's documentation is authentic.

Ishmael Cruz, manager of the Cancun Restaurant in Collinsville, said no one with
the company participated in hiring illegal immigrants.

"I have been in this country 20 years, and I respect this country," Cruz said.
"There is no such thing as illegal aliens in our business. There is no such
thing as smuggling. We do a decent business."

The chain began in Chattanooga, Tenn., in 1988 and had 26 locations throughout
the United States by 1996.

Both the Collinsville and Swansea locations were open for business Wednesday;
there was no answer at the Northwest Plaza restaurant.

Moyer said the 36 arrests followed last month's arrest of 51 illegal aliens from
Mexico who had been working for a St. Louis County landscaping company, The
Brickman Group.

The numbers of people arrested show how the Midwest is continuing to grow as a
destination site for aliens, both legal and illegal, Moyer said. Border states,
such as California and Texas, have beefed-up their border patrols, making it
tougher for immigrants to cross the border and remain in those states.

Moyer said the border states also have passed propositions and legislation that
do such things as prohibit the children of illegal aliens from attending public
schools and deny them health care.

"What the aliens tell us is that it is essentially an unfriendly climate," Moyer
said.

The Midwest is perceived as a less hostile environment by the immigrants, who
usually can find jobs here.

Moyer said the local Immigration Service office has gotten a few more
enforcement officers in recent years. He declined to specify how many
enforcement officers work in the area but said regional Immigration Service
offices - in Kansas City and Chicago, for example - often will pool their
resources with the office here when they need more manpower.

LOAD-DATE: October 10, 1997

LANGUAGE: English

GRAPHIC: PHOTO, Color Photo by Tim Nordmann - Federal marshals bring 36
suspected illegal aliens to the federal courthouse Wednesday in East St. Louis.
Marshals suspect those in custody might be part of a ring smuggling people into
Illinois and Missouri from Mexico.

                  Copyright 1997 St. Louis Post-Dispatch, Inc.


                              31 of 457 DOCUMENTS

                       St. Louis Post-Dispatch (Missouri)

                  October 9, 1997, Thursday, FIVE STAR EDITION

ARRESTS IN AREA POINT TO MAJOR SMUGGLING RING;
36 ALIENS FROM SAME AREA IN MEXICO WERE WORKING AT 3 LOCAL RESTAURANTS

BYLINE: Deborah Peterson; Of The Post-Dispatch Staff

SECTION: NEWS, Pg. 01B

LENGTH: 644 words


Federal authorities said Wednesday that they might have broken up a major ring
smuggling people from Mexico into Illinois and Missouri when they arrested 36
suspected illegal immigrants at three area restaurants.

"We're talking about smuggling," said Chester Moyer, head of the St. Louis
office of the Immigration and Naturalization Service. "For the St. Louis area, a
total of 36 aliens working together is a fairly substantial number."

Most of the immigrants arrested Tuesday came from the same area in Mexico,
eluded officials at the same border crossing and appear to have been directed to
the Midwest, Moyer said.

Those characteristics indicate an organized smuggling ring. Moyer added that the
immigrants would be charged with criminal violations, which take precedence over
deportation proceedings.

Two of those arrested were juveniles who were carrying false adult
identification, Moyer said. He added that the juveniles probably will be
deported rather than face charges.

Meanwhile, the U.S. attorney's office for the Southern District of Illinois was
preparing criminal complaints to be brought against the immigrants, said Joel
Merkel, an assistant U.S. attorney and a spokesman for the office.

The arrests were part of an investigation of employment of illegal immigrants,
fraudulent use of Social Security numbers and failure to register with the
Immigration Service, U.S. Attorney W. Charles Grace said.

The immigrants were arrested at Cancun Mexican Restaurants in Collinsville,
Swansea and at Northwest Plaza in St. Louis County. Fourteen people were
arrested in Collinsville, 11 in Swansea and 11 in St. Louis.

The Immigration Service also executed search warrants against the managers of
the three restaurants to try to determine whether they know ingly employed
workers with phony citizenship papers. Moyer said it is a crime to employ a
person who the company knows to be an illegal immigrant or to not make a
reasonable effort to determine if an employee's documentation is authentic.

Ishmael Cruz, manager of the Cancun Restaurant in Collinsville, said no one with
the company participated in hiring illegal immigrants.

"I have been in this country 20 years and I respect this country," Cruz said.
"There is no such thing as illegal aliens in our business. There is no such
thing as smuggling. We do a decent business."

The chain began in Chattanooga, Tenn., in 1988 and had 26 locations throughout
the United States by 1996.

Both the Collinsville and Swansea locations were open for business Wednesday;
there was no answer at the Northwest Plaza restaurant.

Moyer said the 36 arrests followed last month's arrest of 51 illegal immigrants
from Mexico who had been working for a St. Louis County landscaping company, The
Brickman Group.

The numbers of people arrested show how the Midwest is continuing to grow as a
destination site for immigrants, both legal and illegal, Moyer said. Border
states, such as California and Texas, have beefed-up their border patrols,
making it tougher for immigrants to cross the border and remain in those states.

Moyer said the border states also have passed propositions and legislation that
do such things as prohibit the children of illegal immigrants from attending
public schools and deny them health care.

"What the aliens tell us is that it is essentially an unfriendly climate," Moyer
said.

The Midwest is perceived as a less hostile environment by the immigrants, who
usually can find jobs here.

Moyer said the local Immigration Service office has gotten a few more
enforcement officers in recent years. He declined to specify how many
enforcement officers work in the area but said regional Immigration
Serviceoffices - in Kansas City and Chicago, for example - will often pool their
resources with the office here when they need more manpower.

LOAD-DATE: October 10, 1997

LANGUAGE: English

GRAPHIC: PHOTO, Color Photo by Tim Nordmann - Federal marshals bring 36
immigrants to the federal courthouse Wednesday in East St. Louis. Marshals
suspect the immigrants might be part of a ring smuggling people from Mexico into
Illinois and Missouri.

                  Copyright 1997 St. Louis Post-Dispatch, Inc.


                              32 of 457 DOCUMENTS

                       St. Louis Post-Dispatch (Missouri)

               February 12, 1999, Friday, FIVE STAR LIFT EDITION

CAPITOL BRIEFS

BYLINE: Post-Dispatch Jefferson City Bureau

SECTION: METRO, Pg. C3, CAPITOL BRIEFS COLUMN

LENGTH: 419 words

DATELINE: JEFFERSON CITY



House approves penalties for hiring illegal aliens

JEFFERSON CITY - Employers who knowingly hire illegal aliens would face tougher
penalties under a bill that received final approval Thursday in the House.

The measure would allow the state to withhold tax credits, abatements or
exemptions to such businesses. Missouri also would be able to fine companies
three times the amount of benefits the company had accepted.

During earlier testimony, Rep. Henry Rizzo, D-Kansas City, said border crossings
in California are becoming more difficult, so many Mexicans and other Hispanics
are coming to Missouri through Texas.

"Missouri is seen as a haven," Rizzo said.

Rep. David Levin, R-St. Louis County, said employers who don't immediately
report illegal aliens to immigration officials should face state penalties.

The measure is HB 533.

Senate committee drafts criticism of School Board

JEFFERSON CITY - A Senate committee wants to criticize the St. Louis School
Board - but in nicer terms than proposed by Sen. Steve Ehlmann.

The Senate Rules Committee voted 7-0 Thursday to express disapproval of the
board's insistence on keeping its power for two years if city schools flunk an
accreditation review.

Legislation passed last year requires a transition board to take over if the
district becomes unaccredited. A tentative settlement of the desegregation case
delays a vote on accreditation until 2002.

Ehlmann, R-St. Charles, proposed that the Senate state its unhappiness with the
change by passing a nonbinding "remonstrance." The committee agreed after
removing a section calling the board selfish and shortsighted. Ehlmann said he
was happy with the compromise.

Senate passes legislation on malpractice lawsuits

JEFFERSON CITY - On a fast track this year is legislation allowing people to sue
doctors who fail to relay the results of medical tests.

The Senate passed the bill 32-1 on Thursday. It was spurred by the case of Ann
Weiss of St. Ann, whose cervical cancer could have been treated much earlier if
she had been told of her abnormal Pap smear.

Under current law, Weiss was barred from suing her doctor because malpractice
suits must be brought within two years of the negligent act. Weiss did not know
of her doctor's negligence until she had her next Pap smear, nearly four years
later.

Under the bill, patients could file suits for two years from the date they
discovered they had not been informed of test results.

The bill is SB 141.

LOAD-DATE: February 12, 1999

LANGUAGE: English

                  Copyright 1999 St. Louis Post-Dispatch, Inc.


                              33 of 457 DOCUMENTS

                       St. Louis Post-Dispatch (Missouri)

                 July 20, 1998, Monday, FIVE STAR LIFT EDITION

100-DEGREE HEAT DOESN'T DETER ILLEGAL IMMIGRANTS;
HEAT WAVE HAS KILLED 43 MEXICAN CITIZENS CROSSING BORDER INTO SOUTH TEXAS;
'THE SAME OLD NEED TO GET THROUGH'

BYLINE: The Associated Press

SECTION: NEWS, Pg. A6

LENGTH: 419 words

DATELINE: FALFURRIAS, TEXAS


It took 15 days for Juan Martinez to make it from his home in central Mexico and
cross the border illegally into southern Texas. He plodded through thorny
wasteland and rocky open country, carrying only a 2-liter water bottle that he
refilled whenever he could find yard sprinklers along the way.

When his water ran out, he sought help at a ranch out of fear he would die in
the desert. Security officers called the Border Patrol, and he was arrested.

Martinez was one of the lucky ones.

Forty-three illegal immigrants have died on the same journey from heat
exhaustion, dehydration and other heat-related causes.

Border Patrol agents have rescued others, including some found in stiflingly hot
railroad freight cars.

"Knowing that, I still risked it," said Martinez, who had hoped to find work
fishing or on a ranch to help support the four children he left back home. "I'm
scared, but I need to risk my life."

As he spoke Sunday, the temperature soared through the upper 90s in the region
of open country north of the border cities around Brownsville and southwest of
Corpus Christi.

As Martinez awaited deportation at the Falfurrias Border Patrol checkpoint, 80
miles from the border, he said he would rest for a few weeks at home and try
again - maybe with a bigger bottle of water. The area around the border
checkpoint is a combination of shaded pastures and wild country. The area
includes the historic King Ranch, along with other sprawling spreads.

Brush taller than an average person provides plenty of cover for illegal
immigrants trying to evade the checkpoint, which sits along a highway headed
north.

The area includes well-marked paths used by those seeking to cross the border
illegally. There are footprints in the soft, sandy soil, discarded water jugs,
and shirts and sweaters left on bushes.

But because those paths are watched by the Border Patrol, some illegal
immigrants head out into thicker tangles of cactus and mesquite bushes.

Some are guided by signs marking oil and gas pipelines, and at night there are
lights twinkling from atop distant microwave towers. But many get lost.

"They don't know the terrain," said Francisco Z. Camacho, supervisor at the
Falfurrias Border Patrol station. "They walk all night. Suddenly, it's daylight,
the sun comes up, they get dehydrated and sick."

He said a 13-year-old boy found dead Saturday had been trying to walk north with
his older cousins.

"It's just the same old need to get through," Camacho said.

LOAD-DATE: July 20, 1998

LANGUAGE: English

GRAPHIC: PHOTO Photos by THE ASSOCIATED PRESS
 (1) Border Patrol agents at the site where the body of a 13-year-old boy was
recovered Saturday in Brooks County, Texas. The Mexican youth became dehydrated
and died while traveling to the north with two cousins.
 (2) Mexican nationals tell Border Patrol agents in Falfurrias, Texas, of a
heat-sick companion they left behind. Agents have rescued aliens who were
overwhelmed by the heat while trying to cross the border.
 Note: the THREE STAR Edition had the following sentence replacing the last line
of caption (2):
 Illegal aliens are being urged not to cross the border during the hot summer
months.

                  Copyright 1998 St. Louis Post-Dispatch, Inc.


                              34 of 457 DOCUMENTS

                       St. Louis Post-Dispatch (Missouri)

                July 22, 1998, Wednesday, FIVE STAR LIFT EDITION

PATROL SAVES IMMIGRANT, BUT DEATH TOLL GOES UP IN TEXAS

BYLINE: The Associated Press

SECTION: NEWS, Pg. A5

LENGTH: 472 words

DATELINE: DALLAS


Border Patrol agents saved the life of an illegal immigrant stranded in arid
south Texas brush country Tuesday, but the death toll associated with an
unrelenting heat wave continued to climb - including an elderly Dallas man found
in his 100-degree house.

The heat wave has been blamed for at least 129 deaths in seven states -
including at least 86 in Texas. Louisiana has reported at least 26 deaths,
Oklahoma 13. Missouri, Illinois, California and Arizona each have reported one.

Only luck and the aid of fellow travelers and the Border Patrol saved Juan
Antonio Alvarado Morales, 35, who has a wife and two children in Mexico's
Coahuila state.

Antonio Alvarado was being tended by other immigrants on the Cactus Jack ranch,
a desolate area north of Laredo and within 30 miles of the Mexican border, when
agents rescued him, said Border Patrol spokesman Mike Herrera.

The agents had been alerted by motorists who said the group was trying to flag
down cars on a remote road, Herrera said.

"The individual was on the ground," Herrera said. "He needed help and had been
sick for three days . . . He was lucky because maybe he was found just in time."

The agents, who only recently had been given special medical training and
equipment to deal with heatstroke, gave Antonio Alvarado fluids and put ice on
his head while waiting for an ambulance to arrive.

Antonio Alvarado was in stable condition at Doctors Hospital in Laredo late
Tuesday.

The Border Patrol reports 47 immigrants have died from heat-related illness
while trying to traverse the rough Texas terrain.

The heat has aided inkilling at least 23 people in Dallas County. James
Mitchell, 76, was found dead Monday in his home, which had no air-conditioner.
Charles Gaylor, a field investigator for the Dallas medical examiner's office,
said the temperature inside the house was about 100 degrees.

In Washington, federal officials were poised to declare an agricultural state of
emergency in Texas, allowing farmers to obtain low interest loans to bail
themselves out of financial ruin, an Agriculture Department aide said Tuesday.

"I don't see any reason why they won't (obtain a disaster declaration) at this
point," Larry Mitchell, a legislative liaison at the U.S. Department of
Agriculture, said in an interview.

Texas Gov. George Bush asked the agency to make a disaster declaration for all
254 counties in his state to help farmers who have been hit by drought and
intense heat.

The heat wave, which has seared much of the nation in recent weeks, has been
especially harsh in Texas, where it's being called the hottest summer since
1980.

Temperatures in north Texas soared over 100 on Tuesday for the 16th consecutive
day, reaching 102 in Fort Worth. In Oklahoma, temperatures were in the upper 90s
and low 100s again Tuesday.

LOAD-DATE: July 22, 1998

LANGUAGE: English

                  Copyright 1998 St. Louis Post-Dispatch, Inc.


                              35 of 457 DOCUMENTS

                       St. Louis Post-Dispatch (Missouri)

              September 19, 1998, Saturday, FIVE STAR LIFT EDITION

11 ARE SENTENCED TO PRISON FOR STEALING AND FORGING CHECKS

BYLINE: The Associated Press

SECTION: NEWS, Pg. 19

LENGTH: 327 words

DATELINE: OMAHA, NEB.


* Group of illegal aliens who burglarized businesses throughout the Midwest also
are convicted of immigration violations.

Eleven people who forged about $ 137,000 in checks by stealing them from
businesses across the Midwest have pleaded guilty in federal court and received
prison sentences between one and two years.

U.S. District Judge Lyle Strom also convicted the defendants, all Mexicans who
had entered the United States illegally, of various immigration violations. In
addition to prison terms, each received three years of probation. Strom also
ordered them to pay restitution.

Members of the ring would stop at businesses throughout the Midwest to fill out
employment applications. They would then burglarize the businesses in the
evening, stealing both blank or already canceled corporate payroll checks, U.S.
Attorney Tom Monaghan said in a news release.

Using a typewriter, the defendants would complete the checks with fictitious
names they had assumed. Then they would cash the checks, using identifications
such as forged registration cards and Social Security numbers.

The conspiracy took place between March 1997 and April 1998 in states that
included Nebraska, Missouri, Iowa and Arkansas, Monaghan said.

Omaha Police Sgt. Dan Komor said the department's checks and fraud unit had
investigated the leader of the group, Angela Omaira-Rodriguez, 27, for nearly a
year in 1997. Police were ready to prepare an arrest warrant when
Omaira-Rodriguez and other members of the group left town.

Komor said none of the defendants had a permanent residence in the United
States.

Along with Omaira-Rodriguez, the other defendants sentenced:

Jaime Arana Vargas, 30; Sergio Gallardo Gonzalez, 26; Nestor Gomez Ramos, 20;
Israel Hernandez Valdez, 20; Carmen Lopez Alvarez, 38; Jose Ray-gosa Gutierrez,
28; Ricardo Reyes Silva, 25; Maria Mercedes Ruiz Rivera, 47; Arturo Ruelas Ruiz,
20; and Daniel Montes Pena, age unavailable.

LOAD-DATE: September 19, 1998

LANGUAGE: English

                  Copyright 1998 St. Louis Post-Dispatch, Inc.


                              36 of 457 DOCUMENTS

                       St. Louis Post-Dispatch (Missouri)

                January 17, 1999, Sunday, FIVE STAR LIFT EDITION

HOMECOMING

BYLINE: Story Dan Mihalopoulos; Photos J.B. Forbes

SECTION: NEWS ANALYSIS, Pg. B1

LENGTH: 3239 words

DATELINE: SAN JULIAN, MEXICO


* Juan Mondragon returns to Mexico after two years in St. Louis making a better
life for his family. His story mirrors that of many illegal immigrants.

Within minutes of his return here, Juan Mondragon piles the fruits of 22 months
of menial labor in St. Louis onto the cement floor of his three-room home.

Shoes, shirts, pants, jackets, coats, baseball caps, dresses, a Bruce Lee
figurine -- all purchases from la segunda, a second-hand store in St. Charles
County -- tumble from three cloth sacks literally bursting at the seams.

After more than 44 hours on a bus and almost two years since seeing his wife and
four children, Juan is back home in western Mexico's dusty high plains.

Juan had left everything and everyone behind when he departed San Julian in late
1996. He had carried only two shirts and two pairs of jeans in a backpack.

In St. Louis, Juan worked quietly and lived humbly with other illegal immigrants
from Mexico. The savings from his $ 6-an-hour jobs went home to the family.

"It was worth it," he said at the end of his first stay in the United States.
"Before I came to St. Louis, we didn't have money even to eat anything more than
tortillas. Now my children have eggs, meat, milk. I can afford to let them
attend school."

Like Juan, many Mexican migrant workers in the St. Louis area go home for the
winter, only to return to the United States in the spring to work in Midwestern
farm fields, landscape suburban yards, cook in the kitchens of chop suey
restaurants or wash clothes in hotel laundry rooms.

Still, Juan's return to San Julian, less than two weeks before Christmas, comes
as a surprise to his family. Wife Josefina and the chi ldren had not heard from
him in three months.

As he completes the final leg of his odyssey in the bed of a pickup, 11-year-old
Rosa dashes across the dirt front yard and announces to her mother and aunts:
"If I'm not mistaken, my dad is here."

Fifteen-year-old Miguel stands at the back of the pickup, smiling broadly but
wordless, while his father lowers the 5-foot-high, 70-pound sacks. Three little
dogs in the front yard yap at the stranger.

"Miguel? I can't believe that's you," Juan, 52, tells the boy. "When I left, you
were only as tall as my nose. Now you're a head taller than I am. I would not
have known it was you if I had passed you on the street."

But after the bear hugs, the gifts and the initial commotion, Juan is beginning
to realize that the home he has returned to is not exactly the home he left
behind.

"Miguel has not said a word to me since I came back," Juan tells Josefina. "He
used to come and sit with me, he used to talk with me about politics.

"Miguel, where are you? Why don't you come over and talk with me? Aren't you
happy to see your father, son?"

A growing community

In St. Louis, Juan was one of countless Mexican indocumentados, illegal migrants
who describe themselves as "paperless."

Community leaders estimate that as many as 35,000 Mexicans live in the St. Louis
area, making up the largest chunk of the area's Hispanic population. Although
some are legal immigrants or have been in St. Louis for generations, many are
migrant workers who do not have permission to live and work in the United
States.

As such, they plug away largely beyond the view of most St. Louisans. Scrimping
to save every penny, Juan and his roommates rarely ventured out of their
two-bedroom apartment except to work or make a few purchases and wire money home
at Mexican groceries.

Legal as well as illegal, St. Louis Mexicans are dispersed widely on both sides
of the Mississippi and Missouri rivers. Unlike their compatriots in the more
traditional Mexican meccas of the Southwest or Chicago, they don't congregate in
ethnic neighborhoods.

The only noticeable concentrations are in Fairmont City, in the Metro East area,
and near the intersection of Jefferson Avenue and Cherokee Street, in St. Louis.
About 400 Mexican families live in the old red-brick flats around St. Francis de
Sales, one of three Catholic churches offering Spanish-language Mass. Some
evangelical churches, including the Jehovah's Witnesses, also conduct services
in Spanish.

On Cherokee, Mexican entrepreneurs are revitalizing storefronts that had been
abandoned, much as Asian businesses have brought back another strip along South
Grand Boulevard.

Rafael Dominguez opened the first Mexican grocery on Cherokee nine years ago.
His Tienda Latinoamericana since has added a restaurant, a butcher shop and a
Mexican-style, self-serve bakery, where customers use tongs to place their
purchases on plastic trays.

Other ethnic groceries, meat markets and clothing stores selling Mexican cowboy
attire have opened along Cherokee. Insurance offices and travel agencies may be
next.

"La Calle Cherokee will be the future Mexican Main Street of St. Louis,"
predicts Jose Luis Garcia, a 33-year-old immigrant who owns Taqueria Azteca
restaurant on Cherokee with wife Patricia Castaneda. "I'm sure this street would
be long dead by now if not for the Mexican businesses."

Some of the newer arrivals originally migrated to Southern California or Chicago
before moving to St. Louis. A hostile political climate and fear of deportation
by the U.S. Immigration and Naturalization Service drives some illegal
immigrants away from the large Mexican communities elsewhere. Immigration
service raids of businesses in the St. Louis area occur, but they're not as
frequent as in cities closer to the border.

Illegal immigrants in St. Louis say they have no problem finding the only thing
they moved to the area for -- work. The unemployment rate of 3.7 percent in St.
Louis is at its lowest point since the Vietnam War. The only real challenge is
finding transportation to plentiful minimum-wage jobs.

Agustin, 28, was one of Juan's roommates before Juan went back to Mexico.
Agustin moved to St. Louis last year from Chicago's West Side Mexican barrio.

"St. Louis is virgin territory for us," Agustin says. "It's easier to find work
because there is less competition from other Mexicans for the k ind of jobs we
do. In Chicago, you walk down 26th Street and it's like you're in Mexico,
Mexicans everywhere saying hi to you."

Another roommate, named Luis, is less philosophical after stays in various U.S.
cities during the past eight years. It doesn't matter where in the United States
the immigrants end up, Luis explains. All that is important is to be anywhere
north of the border, making dollars that stretch far for family members in
Mexico City, Aguascalientes, Michoacan, Guanajuato, Jalisco, Zacatecas . . .
anywhere in Mexico.

"I'm illegal, and I don't deny it," Luis says. "Why should I? I haven't killed
anyone. I'm not here to rob anyone. I'm not even here to get rich. I just want
to help my family a little."

In Mexico, there is not nearly enough steady work to go around. For those who
worked, wages of $ 3 a day were typical, say some Mexicans in St. Louis. Some
sold gum or trinkets on street corners to make money. Few attended high school
because they were forced to work at a young age.

Coyotes and wolves

Juan quit school at age 9. His poor boyhood home near Mexico City did not have
drinking water. So Juan and his father trekked two miles each way, each day to
fill four silver jugs with potable water and load them onto a burro. They sold
the water in their neighborhood.

Juan later owned a truck for moving construction materials. For a while, times
were good. He could afford to take his wife on a honeymoon to the resorts of
Mazatlan and Cabo San Lucas.

But the Mexican currency, the peso, crashed in 1995. The peso devaluation wiped
out the country's middle class. While work became scarcer, Juan's truck broke
down. He had to borrow money to repair the truck, and he sold it.

With the $ 5,000 he made from the truck's sale, Juan gave his wife $ 3,000 for
household expenses. The rest went toward the long journey to St. Louis; the
coyotes -- smugglers of human cargo -- charge between $ 1,000 and $ 1,500 to
spirit illegal immigrants across the border.

Juan, his friend Jose and a group of about 15 other Mexicans tried about 10
times during a month to cross the frontier to El Paso, Texas from Ciudad Juarez,
Mexico. During one attempt, they spent two nights walking through the Sonoran
Desert of Arizona.

"We could hear wolves howling, remember?" Jose asks Juan.

"Yes, it was freezing," Juan says. "We had nothing to eat or drink."

The immigration service foiled that attempt to cross the border.

"Each day, the migra would tell me, 'You again, Mondragon,' " Juan says. "I
would put my arms up, and they never hurt me. They just took my photo and let me
out. I joked to them, 'See you guys again tomorrow.' I have nothing against the
migra, because it's their job to catch us."

Life in St. Louis

Juan -- a jittery man nicknamed "Cafecito" because he always seems wired on
caffeine -- was eager to work when he got to St. Louis. He first job was in the
laundry room of a major hotel. He ended his stint as a dishwasher in a
restaurant in St. Louis County. The owners seemed pleased with his work.

"The last day, they patted me on the back and said, 'OK, amigo, good work, OK,'
" Juan recalled. "They said I would have a job when I come back to St. Louis in
March, but even if I don't have a job with them, I'll find one somewhere else.
There's plenty."

Illegal workers say they are paid about $ 350 a week in St. Louis. With
overtime, they may work as long as 70 to 80 hours in a week and earn as much as
$ 1,400 in a month.

It isn't too tough to make rent in St. Louis, they say. A couple days before
Juan boarded the bus for Mexico, five immigrants lived in one, $ 385-a-month
apartment in north St. Louis County. One person slept on a couch, the rest on
sofa cushions laid out on the floors. They shared a cordless phone with the
Mexican occupants of three other apartments.

The hallways in the apartment building smelled strongly of curries or other East
Indian cooking. Mexicans are by far the most common -- but far from the only --
illegal immigrants drawn to jobs in the stores and restaurants of suburban St.
Louis.

An unframed poster of the Gateway Arch adorned the apartment's walls, as did
pages ripped from pornographic magazines. Other than a 13-inch TV set and a VCR
in the narrow living room, nothing else except chatter entertains the roommates.

Juan and his roommates all agreed that they want to go back to Mexico once they
have enough money to start a business there. Because he came to the United
States at age 50, Juan says he was too old to learn English. After long work
days, there's no time or inclination left to study English.

Not knowing English, Luis said, makes it hard to meet young women. Prostitutes
who charge between $ 20 and $ 60 visit the apartment each week.

The night before Juan left St. Louis, a prostitute serviced two of his
roommates. Afterward, she declined their offer of a bottle of Corona beer,
instead taking a swig from a Bud Light can. "That stuff is nasty," she said.

Some Mexican arrivals to St. Louis take a longer-term view toward their futures
in the United States.

Juan's friend Jose, 22, has a steady American girlfriend to tutor him. He shares
a tidy apartment with his brother and plans to become a permanent, legal U.S.
resident after he marries his girlfriend.

"I know some people marry for papers, but not me," Jose said. "I love her."

His dream is to learn about computers so he can get an office job. "I can't wash
plates anymore," he said. "It's not for me."

In a Tommy Hilfiger polo shirt and jeans, chatting in English, Jose could pass
for someone who has lived in the United States much longer than he has.
Nonetheless, he says, "I can't forget where I came from . . . or how I came
here."

The home left behind

It's not hard to see why many Mexicans are desperate to head to El Norte. San
Julian offers little economic opportunity to its 25,000 inhabitants. If not for
the millions of dollars sent back each year by thousands of immigrants from the
town, San Julian hardly could subsist.

The countryside around San Julian is rocky and can sustain only small herds of
livestock. Cactuses and small bushes are the most prevalent plants. The
townspeople use corn much shorter than its Midwestern cousins to make tortillas,
saving the husks for the cattle. As in pre-colonial times, the tortilla is the
staple of the Mexican peasant diet here.

The town, in contrast to its bleak surroundings, is bright and bustling. A
gazebo sits in the middle of the pretty central plaza where old men sit on
benches, chatting. A sandstone church with a stacked, wedding-cake bell tower
fronts the square.

On Sundays, the town's single women and men stroll in circles, each gender
moving in the opposite direction of the other, in the age-old courtship ritual
of la serenata. Young men show their affection by respectfully placing confetti
on the object of their affection.

It's so safe that parents let kindergarden students walk to school alone. The
biggest danger is from cars brought back from the United States. When the men
are back in town for Christmas and the fiesta of San Julian in early February,
they like to cruise around, ranchera folk music blaring from their speakers.
California license plates are the most common but vehicles in San Julian come
from anywhere between Washington state and the slaughterhouse towns of Nebraska
or Woodbury County, Iowa.

Virtually every business on the main street, Calle Hidalgo, was begun with seed
money earned in the United States. At the butcher shop near the town hall, a
woman buys a chorizo sausage and changes a $ 100 bill into pesos in a single
transaction.

The homes of those who have done well in the United States are easy to pick out.
Just look for the satellite dishes.

Juan's home is on the outskirts of town, on one of the town's few remaining
unpaved streets. The home is a one-story, red-brick structure near a dirt soccer
field.

Inside, Josefina warms tortillas on four burners perched on top of a metal
barrel. Blue plastic buckets and a hose are the sum of the bathing facilities.
Because the home lacks a refrigerator, Juan must specify how cold he wants his
beers before sending his daughter out to buy six Coronas.

Josefina in charge

Everything in the household revolves around the soft-spoken Josefina. She posts
the children's test scores on a wall chart, and she has placed no less than half
a dozen religious calendars on the whitewashed walls.

She seems to have everything under control. Fourteen-year-old Juan Manuel placed
second in a chess tournament. Miguel is the president of his class. No
significant calamity has befallen the family in Juan's absence.

Regardless, Juan tries to immediately reassert himself. He is easily agitated.

"My daughter, where are you going like that? Put a jacket on. It's cold."

"Miguel! Don't go to the ranch with your cousins . . . there are rattlesnakes
there!"

"I don't want you going on a ride with those friends, Javier . . . you'll break
a leg . . . Didn't some kid just get killed in a car crash around here?"

Javier storms off. "That Javier will become a bum if we don't watch him,
Josefina," Juan says. "You have to teach them the hard way, you have to spank
them, if they don't understand the easy way."

About an hour later, Javier hops out of a car, his father blissfully unaware of
his whereabouts.

Josefina clearly subscribes to a different style of parenting. A deeply
religious woman, she objects to corporal punishment. Walking to church, out of
breath trying to get to Mass in time because Juan lingers to chat with everyone
on the street, Josefina frets that her husband is too nervous.

Josefina says she prayed for her husband's safe return at Mass each day.

Her superstar is the town priest, Father Javier Orozco.

In the parish newsletter mailed each month to migrant workers in the United
States, Father Javier warns them to remember San Julian and to avoid falling
into the moral chasms of the north. Letters back to the priest often come from
repentant immigrants who have battled alcoholism and drug addiction or
contracted the AIDS virus in the United States.

Having avoided the worst dangers of life in the United States, Juan now looks to
improve his house during this visit. His shopping list: a refrigerator, a stove,
a shower, a connection to the nearest telephone pole. Josefina has already
purchased a television, bicycles and an encyclopedia set with money Juan sent
from St. Louis.

Torn between two lives

But Juan is unsettled. He doesn't feel comfortable in San Julian. A native of
Mexico City, he only moved the family closer to his in-laws a few years ago,
after the peso devaluation rocked the national economy. The townspeople,
including his in-laws, consider him to be a typical chilango, a capital city
slicker who likes to talk big.

Here, Juan sees that others have done better in the United States than he did.
His brother-in-law, Juan Manuel Munoz, has been going back and fo rth between
San Julian and California for 20 years. All four of his sons were born in
Southern California and are U.S. citizens. For just $ 20,000, he built his
family a three-bedroom home in San Julian complete with marble floors and a
shaded backyard patio.

"My husband always says that he doesn't go to California to make a dollar and
bring back 50 cents," Munoz's wife, Rosario Martinez, adds. "He only spends the
bare minimum and saves the rest to bring home."

During Juan's first year in St. Louis, his relatives say he was not sending any
money and not communicating with his wife for as long as five months. The family
was left penniless, and Josefina had to borrow money.

Juan appears to have straightened out his act since. He explains that he had a
few too many beers on a couple occasions early in his stay in St. Louis, when he
was under the influence of bad roommates he later moved away from.

Within a day of getting back home, he's torn between his two lives. "If I were
back in America, I would be making more money for the family," he muses.

Conversely, "I should be here with my kids," he says a moment later. "I've lost
their confidence."

Especially troubling to Juan is Miguel's silence. Miguel, an introverted, bright
boy with an interest in politics and world affairs, is Juan's favorite. He is
the one Juan wants to become a lawyer, maybe even one of Mexico's few
incorruptible politicians.

Miguel says he is happy to see his father; he is just surprised at his
unexpected return. Relatives tell a slightly different tale, one in which a
drunken Juan calls his sister-in-law and speaks vulgarities to her. She passes
the phone to Miguel -- but Juan does not know that the boy, and not Rosario, is
at the other end of the line.

"Juan is excitable," Rosario says, quietly.

Juan won't hear of his children following in his footsteps, going to the United
States. Javier wants to go. The children only see the dollars that come back
from the United States. They can't imagine what is sacrificed, what hardships
are endured and lies are told to achieve a bearable standard of living for them.

"I don't want my kids to see what I have seen," Juan says. "I want them to play
and go to school. Nothing more. Like normal kids."

LOAD-DATE: January 17, 1999

LANGUAGE: English

GRAPHIC: PHOTO, GRAPHIC (1) Color Photo - Juan Mondragon prays with his wife,
Josefina, during morning Mass in his hometown of San Julian, Mexico. Juan left
San Julian in 1996 to work in St. Louis, earning just $ 6 an hour. Dollars
earned by immigrants such as Juan are worth more in Mexico than in the United
States.
 (2) Color Photo - Juan is greeted by his oldest son, Miguel, 15, at the
Mondragons' home in San Julian upon Juan's return from the United States. Many
migrant workers in the St. Louis area go home for the winter. But J uan uan
spent almost two years working across the border.
 (3) Photo by J.B. Forbes / POST-DISPATCH - One of Juan's first stops upon
returning to San Julian was to visit the local butcher, where Juan was able to
exchange U.S. dollars for Mexican Pesos at a good rate of almost 10 pesos per
dollar.
 (4) Photos by J.B. Forbes / POST-DISPATCH - Juan, accompanies by his son
Javier, left, talks to his daughter Rosa, at the front gate of his home. On the
day after his return from St. Louis, Juan went to the grocery to purchase soda
for his children. Javier still wears the coat his father gave him the day
before, upon his return from the United States.
 (5) Juan's nephews walk down the street near his home in San Julian. Juan lives
near where the road's pavement ends.
 (6) Graphic / Chart - Sources of illegal immigrants
 About 5 million undocumented residents live in the United States, more than
half of them from Mexico. Here are the Top 10 countries of origin:
 * 1. Mexico, 2.7 million
 * 2. El Salvador, 335,000
 * 3. Guatemala, 165,000
 * 4. Canada, 120,000
 * 5. Haiti, 105,000
 * 6. Philippines, 95,000
 * 7. Honduras, 90,000
 * 8. Poland, 70,000
 Nicaragua, 70,000
 Bahamas, 70,000
 Source: Immigration and Naturalization Service, 1996
 (7)  Graphic / Chart - Where illegal immigrants live
 Federal officials estimate that more than three-quarters of the 5 million
undocumented residents in the United States live in just five states:
 * 1. California, 2 million
 * 2. Texas, 700,000
 * 3. New York, 540,000
 * 4. Florida, 350,000
 * 5. Illinois, 290,00
 * 26. Missouri, 16,000
 Source: Immigration and Naturalization Service, 1996

                  Copyright 1999 St. Louis Post-Dispatch, Inc.


                              37 of 457 DOCUMENTS

                       St. Louis Post-Dispatch (Missouri)

                January 17, 1999, Sunday, FIVE STAR LIFT EDITION

ST. LOUIS IS A MAGNET FOR ILLEGAL IMMIGRANTS;
STRICT ENFORCEMENT ALONG U.S. BORDER WITH MEXICO PUSHES MIGRANTS INLAND

BYLINE: Dan Mihalopoulos; Of The Post-Dispatch

SECTION: NEWS ANALYSIS, Pg. B5

LENGTH: 347 words



Poca migra.

That's Spanish slang for "little pressure from the Immigration and
Naturalization Service." And that's a major reason why illegal immigrants from
Mexico and other countries are flocking to places such as the St. Louis area in
growing numbers.

Congress has mandated that the immigration service strengthen its presence in
border states and coastal ports. As a result, many illegal immigrants are
heading inland to try to avoid deportation, said Chester Moyer, officer in
charge of the immigration office in St. Louis.

Mexicans are the largest illegal immigrant group, but immigration agents here
also have encountered many Guatemalans, Indians, Chinese, Canadians and others
living and working in the St. Louis area without government permission.

"We've identified just about every nationality you can imagine," Moyer said.

About half of the nation's immigration agents are posted in Florida or
California and other states bordering Mexico. "It's needed," Moyer said. "That's
where the biggest problem is."

The immigration office here occasionally makes raids to arrest illegal
immigrants. Since October 1997, agents have twice raided Cancun Mexican
Restaurants in Swansea, Collinsville and St. Ann.

The government made 50 arrests in the raids. Some of the immigrants arrested
returned to Mexico voluntarily, while 33 are facing prosecution in federal
court.

A 1997 raid at the Brickman Group, a landscaping company, resulted in 51
arrests. All of the workers detained were natives of Mexico.

Employers can face penalties for hiring illegal immigrants. But the Cancun and
Brickman cases are still pending, Moyer said.

All told, immigration here reports deporting 216 people in the year ended Sept.
30. Of those deported, 123 were criminals and 93 had violated no laws other than
immigration rules.

The raids largely serve to set an example. But, with thousands of illegal
immigrants across the metro area, the chances of deportation are slim. If
deported, many immigrants from Mexico say they would come right back as soon as
possible.

LOAD-DATE: January 17, 1999

LANGUAGE: English

                  Copyright 1999 St. Louis Post-Dispatch, Inc.


                              38 of 457 DOCUMENTS

                       St. Louis Post-Dispatch (Missouri)

                  January 24, 1999, Sunday, THREE STAR EDITION

NUMBER OF IMMIGRANTS WHO WERE GRANTED LEGAL RESIDENCY DECREASES 13 PCT., INS;
REPORTS;
AGENCY CAN'T KEEP PACE WITH FLOOD OF APPLICATIONS

BYLINE: The Associated Press

SECTION: NEWS, Pg. A5

LENGTH: 388 words

DATELINE: WASHINGTON


The number of foreigners granted legal residence in the United States dropped by
13 percent to 800,000 during the government's 1997 fiscal year, the Immigration
and Naturalization Service said Friday.

The drop was attributable to the agency's inability to keep pace with legal
residency applications. The INS, whose resources have been taxed on many fronts,
has been struggling to deal with a green card surge prompted by a 1994 federal
amnesty law allowing certain illegal immigrants to legalize their status.

Nearly 700,000 illegal immigrants filed for legal permanent residence in 1997 -
up from 121,000 three years earlier - under terms of that amnesty program. Last
year, Congress decided against renewing it.

The INS estimated that it would have granted as many as 150,000 additional green
cards had it been able to keep pace with its paperwork. For the fiscal year that
ended Sept. 30, 1997, the INS granted legal residence to 798,378 people, down
from 915,900 a year earlier.

"There's no change in the high level of immigration," said Mark Krikorian of the
Center for Immigration Studies, a Washington-based think tank that favors
reduced rates of immigration.

"That just reinforces the point that we've been making all along: That there are
900,000 or 1 million immigrants coming in every year - and the 1990s is on track
to be the highest immigration decade in history."

Krikorian's group recently issued a study, based on Census Bureau data, finding
that the number of immigrants living in the United States has almost tripled
since 1970, rising from 9.6 million to 26.3 million today.

Immigrants accounted for 9.8 percent of the U.S. population last year, double
the 4.8 percent registered in 1970, the study found. Although at a high not seen
since 1930, the percentage remains well short of the 14.7 percent attained in
1910.

The INS said 322,440 of the people granted permanent residence in 1997 were
immediate relatives of U.S. citizens; 213,331 more came in under other family
preferences.

Mexico was the largest source country for immigrants in 1997, accounting for 18
percent of all those admitted during the year. When other North American
countries were added, the continent accounted for 39 percent of the total,
followed by Asia, with 33 percent; and Europe, with 15 percent.

LOAD-DATE: July 6, 1999

LANGUAGE: English

                  Copyright 1999 St. Louis Post-Dispatch, Inc.


                              39 of 457 DOCUMENTS

                       St. Louis Post-Dispatch (Missouri)

               February 19, 1999, Friday, FIVE STAR LIFT EDITION

EMPHASIS ON SAN DIEGO AREA CUTS BORDER PATROL'S MANPOWER ELSEWHERE

BYLINE: David Kligman; The Associated Press

SECTION: NEWS, Pg. A11

LENGTH: 676 words

DATELINE: DUBLIN, CALIF.<


Tom Madden, a 20-year veteran of the U.S. Border Patrol, used to spend his time
chasing tips and visiting construction sites and bus terminals to round up
illegal immigrants.

Now, except for a secretary, Madden sits at his desk, surrounded by empty
cubicles and covered typewriters. With the agency focusing its attention
elsewhere, Border Patrol agents have become a rarity in northern California.

"Without the agents here, we're totally reactive," said Madden, who has his
hands full just doing paperwork and shuttling prisoners from the local jail.

Madden works virtually alone largely because of Operation Gatekeeper, an effort
begun more than four years ago to stop the flow of illegal immigrants into San
Diego.

Today, only 24 agents - down from 65 a few years ago - cover nearly all of
California north of Los Angeles. San Diego has about 2,200 agents.

Madden is responsible for a 300-mile stretch of coast as well as inland areas
from Oregon to the booming suburbs east of San Francisco Bay.

The lack of agents in the interior has drawn criticism from Rep. Brian Bilbray,
R-Calif., and other congressmen. They believe President Bill Clinton's
administration should have sought funding for 1,000 more Border Patrol officers
next year.

Just last month, police in the Bay area suburb of Dublin pulled over a van that
had run a stop sign. Inside were 12 illegal immigrants.

If the van had been traveling in San Diego, Tucson, Ariz., or anywhere along the
U.S.-Mexican border, deportation would have been automatic. But it was a
Saturday, Madden's day off. With no 24-hour detention cell for illegals in
northern California, police had no choice but to free the immigrants. It happens
a lot, Madden said.

Of California's estimated 2 million illegal immigrants, as many as 400,000 lived
in northern California in 1997, according to estimates by San Diego economist
Enrico Marcelli of the Center for U.S.-Mexican Studies.

There were 626 illegal immigrants deported last year in Madden's nine-county
coverage area - nearly 40 percent fewer than in 1994. Asked to explain the drop,
Madden simply said: "No people."

He and other agents once traveled regularly to farms across northern parts of
the state, but Madden has hasn't been there in two years.

Before Gatekeeper, San Diego was the premier crossing point for illegal
immigrants, accounting for nearly half of the Border Patrol's arrests
nationwide.

Gatekeeper's goal was to push the immigration traffic east to more dangerous
routes that migrants were less likely to try. But they didn't stop. The flow
exploded in Imperial County, about 120 miles east of San Diego.

In the last fiscal year, San Diego agents made 248,090 arrests, down 13 percent
from the previous year. But Imperial County agents made 226,703 arrests, a 55
percent increase from the year before.

In all, arrests of illegal immigrants along California's 150-mile border with
Mexico dropped to 474,672 last year, compared with 477,807 in 1994, government
figures show.

The Immigration and Naturalization Service, which oversees the Border Patrol,
said the deployment issue is complicated and won't be fully resolved until
Congress approves the agency's reorganization.

"While we've seen attrition in northern California, we have had a huge infusion
of new agents along the southern border," said spokeswoman Virginia Kice. "If we
can deter people from entering the border, they won't end up in northern
California."

Also, about 160 special INS agents throughout northern California compensate for
the lack of Border Patrol presence, she said.

The agency has tried to compensate in other ways - leading seminars to teach
business owners how to spot illegal green cards, for example. There's also a
pilot project that allows employers to verify the status of workers through an
Internet site.

But Bilbray said the agency's efforts must be spread throughout the country's
interior, not just at the border.

"We need to strengthen our enforcement, not cannibalize it," the congressman
said.

LOAD-DATE: July 7, 1999

LANGUAGE: English

GRAPHIC: PHOTO THE ASSOCIATED PRESS Color Photo - Tom Madden, a Border Patrol
agent, fingerprints a suspected illegal immigrant at his office in Dublin,
Calif., on Feb. 1. He is one of the few agents now patrolling northern
California and Oregon.

                  Copyright 1999 St. Louis Post-Dispatch, Inc.


                              40 of 457 DOCUMENTS

                       St. Louis Post-Dispatch (Missouri)

                April 3, 1999, Saturday, FIVE STAR LIFT EDITION

NATION AND WORLD BRIEFS

BYLINE: From News Services

SECTION: NEWS, Pg. 16, NATION/WORLD BRIEFS COLUMN

LENGTH: 1425 words



NATION

FLORIDA

Amtrak train, car collide; 1 in car is killed, 5 hurt

An Amtrak train slammed into a car that had been pushed in its path, killing a
car passenger. Five people were injured.

No injuries were reported among the train passengers or crew in Thursday night's
collision. The train was heading to Miami from New York.

The car had stopped for flashing lights at the crossing in West Palm Beach,
Fla., when another car rammed it from behind, spinning the vehicle onto the
tracks, where it stalled, according to the Florida Highway Patrol.

Jennifer Fuente, the 18-year-old who was killed, couldn't free herself from the
car's back seat before the train slammed into the car, pushing it more than a
quarter-mile down the tracks. Two other people in her car were injured.

The second car continued across the tracks and through the crossing. Three
people in that car suffered minor injuries. No tickets were issued, but the
investigation was not complete.

SOUTHWEST

Snowstorm in mountains kills 7 illegal immigrants

An overnight snowstorm in a mountainous route used by illegal immigrants
overtook dozens of people, killing at least seven and prompting a major rescue
effort for the others.

The U.S. Border Patrol got a call late Thursday that people were stranded in the
mountains about 40 miles east of San Diego, said Bill Strassberger, spokesman
for the Immigration and Naturalization Service. "They tried to cross and a freak
snowstorm blew in," he said.

The Border Patrol initially found only a few people, but soon found other groups
of immigrants.

By daylight, agents had rescued 35 and were trying to find 20 others reported
missing.Six were confirmed dead, Strassberger said, and agents expected the toll
to grow. Most of the survivors were being taken to hospitals.

WYOMING

Police chief in town is held in child support case

The police chief of Moorcroft, Wyo., was arrested and accused of moving from
state to state to avoid paying $ 59,346 in child support.

Richard Anthony Franco allegedly has failed to make payments for his four
children since his divorce in 1987. Franco lived in several states before moving
to Wyoming and becoming the chief in Moorcroft, population 768, last year.

Franco was released on his own recognizance after an appearance in fed eral
court in Casper on Wednesday. He was ordered to face the charges next week in
New York state, where he believes his ex-wife lives.

He denied the charges, saying child support collection agencies have made
paperwork mistakes.

MASSACHUSETTS

Ex-priest who molested children is denied parole

Parole was denied Friday for a former Roman Catholic priest convicted of
sexually assaulting 28 children during the 1950s and 1960s.

James Porter was denied his bid for freedom because he "has not come to terms
with the offenses, minimizes his crimes, and does not have true remorse for
them," said Parole Board spokeswoman Alberta Cook.

The hearing before two members of the board was held in a state prison in
Gardner, Mass., and was closed to the public.

Porter, 64, has served five years and four months of an 18-to-20-year term after
pleading guilty to the assaults in 1993. He had been accused of assaulting
nearly 100 young people over decades in the Fall River Diocese, New Mexico and
Minnesota.

WORLD

TAJIKISTAN

Copter with Russian troops crashes; 17 die

A helicopter carrying Russian border troops, including a general, crashed Friday
on the border with Afghanistan, killing at least 17 people, officials said.

One person was believed to have survived the crash of the Mi-8 helicopter into
the Pyandzh River, which forms the border with Afghanistan, according to Russian
press reports.

The helicopter was carrying a major general and two colonels, who were not
immediately identified.

The cause of the crash was not known, though a number of aging Mi-8's have
crashed in recent months.

Russia has about 25,000 border troops in Tajikistan to guard the border with
Afghanistan against armed groups opposed to the Dushanbe government and against
smugglers carrying drugs and weapons.

NIGERIA

8 militants are killed in police station attack

Police killed eight Yoruba militants during clashes sparked by an attack on a
police station, a news agency reported Friday.

Fifteen other people, including a police officer, were hospitalized with serious
injuries after the Thursday clash, the News Agency of Nigeria reported.

The dead belonged to the Odudua Peoples' Congress, a collection of Yoruba tribal
leaders and activists who want a separate Yoruba state in southwestern Nigeria.

According to the report, the trouble began after police in the town of
Okitipupa, about 90 miles east of Lagos, arrested one of the group's leaders.

On Thursday, about 200 Yoruba militants armed with clubs, knives and other
weapons went to the police station to try to free their leader.

Riot police, who had earlier barricaded the station's main entrance, opened
fire, killing five people as the others fled, the report said.

Three more people died later of their injuries, the news agency said.

CAMEROON

Erupting volcano prompts big evacuation

Hundreds of people are being evacuated from coastal villages endangered by lava
from the erupting Mount Cameroon, state radio reported Friday.

Local Gov. Peter Cho Adam called on rescue teams to evacuate 1,000 people
immediately and prepare for more.

Residents near the mountain were advised to breathe through handkerchiefs to
filter the volcanic ash.

The 13,400-foot volcano is a popular tourist attraction that draws thousands for
an annual race up its black, rocky slopes.

It began erupting March 27.

At least 63 houses have been destroyed in tremors accompanying the eruptions,
leaving about 250 people homeless in the town of Buea, 13 miles south of the
mountain.

RUSSIA

Private investors will finance Mir, officials say

Several private investors have agreed to keep the aging Mir space station in
orbit after government money for the 13-year-old station runs out in August,
Russian officials said.

Russian Space Agency chief Yuri Koptev refused to name any of the investors, but
said a Canadian citizen of Russian origin has already donated $ 100,000 to
finance Mir's operation. Koptev said some investors had asked that their money
pay for scientific experiments aboard the craft, while others will contribute
money toward its $ 250 million yearly maintenance fees, the ITAR-Tass news
agency reported.

Space officials have said Mir could stay in orbit for three more years, but may
be discarded as early as this August if no private funds are raised.

The cash-strapped government said it can no longer afford to keep Mir aloft.

The U.S. space agency NASA has long urged the Russian government to scrap Mir.

The U.S. wants Russia to commit its meager resources to the International Space
Station, a 16-nation project that is a year behind schedule because of Russia's
failure to build a key segment on time.

AUSTRIA

Officials want French to give up the Jackal

Austria has asked France to extradite the man known as Carlos the Jackal, a
convicted terrorist who is serving a life sentence in a French prison, the
Austria Press Agency reported Friday.

Carlos, whose real name is Ilich Ramirez Sanchez, was sentenced to life in
prison in December 1997 by a French court for killing three people in 1975.

Two of those killed were French counterintelligence agents.

Ramirez was captured in August 1994.

He also has been linked to the 1975 attack in which oil ministers were seized at
an Organization of Petroleum Exporting Countries conference in Vienna.

Three people were killed in that attack.

The news agency quoted prosecutor Richard Benna as saying the Austrian
government had applied for extradition in January.

Carlos is being sought only to provide testimony in the trial of another suspect
Austria wants France to extradite.

CHINA

2 get death, another life in slaying of official

A Beijing court sentenced two men to death and another to life in prison Friday
for killing a senior Communist Party official during a robbery, the state-run
Xinhua News Agency said.

The sentences were imposed 12 days after the men were indicted in the stabbing
death of Zou Jingmeng on Feb. 22. Zou was a member of the executive committee of
the Chinese People's Political Consultative Conference.

LOAD-DATE: July 25, 1999

LANGUAGE: English

GRAPHIC: PHOTO Photo by THE ASSOCIATED PRESS - Haitian Christians pray during a
procession Friday at the village of Calvair Miracle, 25 miles north of
Port-au-Prince. Pilgrims from as far away as Canada gathered in the village
where the faithful say prayers are answered more frequently.

                  Copyright 1999 St. Louis Post-Dispatch, Inc.


                              41 of 457 DOCUMENTS

                       St. Louis Post-Dispatch (Missouri)

               April 4, 1999, Sunday, ILLINOIS FIVE STAR EDITION

NATION

BYLINE: From News Services

SECTION: NEWS ANALYSIS, Pg. B5, NATION BRIEFS COLUMN

LENGTH: 754 words



Illegal immigrant death toll rises to 9 from storm

The death toll from a snowstorm that caught illegal immigrants from Mexico in
rugged, unfamiliar mountains last week has risen to nine. The storm brought
frigid temperatures, leaving seven dead in the United States and two dead in
Mexico. Searchers with dogs and helicopters rescued more than 130 others on both
sides of the border Friday. Some wore only jeans, T-shirts and tennis shoes.
U.S. officials in Alpine, Calif., blamed immigrant smugglers who lead their
ill-prepared clients into dangerous terrain and then abandon them when trouble
strikes. But others blamed Operation Gatekeeper, the U.S. effort to shut down
illegal immigration in the urban and suburban part of San Diego County. Critics
say the program shares a major part of the blame by forcing border-crossers into
more remote areas.

"Operation Gatekeeper has maximized the risks," said Claudia Smith, a
spokeswoman for the California Rural Legal Assistance Foundation, a migrants'
rights group. The rescued migrants, whose journey was halted about 40 miles east
of San Diego, were hospitalized and treated for hypothermia. They were then
taken into U.S. Border Patrol custody for eventual return to Mexico.

Daylight-saving time is in effect for most of U.S.

The hour of evening sunshine for ballgames and barbecues is back with the return
of daylight-saving time. The official moment for setting the clock ahead was 2
a.m. Sunday, though many folks did so before going to bed Saturday night.
Standard time will return Oct. 31. The exceptions - where standard time remains
all year - are Arizona, Hawaii, the part of Indiana in the Eastern time zone,
and all of Puerto Rico, the Virgin Islands and American Samoa.

Cancer patients' kin, hospital reach deal, paper says

Relatives of 90 cancer patients who allege their relatives were unknowingly
subjected to military-sponsored radiation experiments have reached a proposed $
5 million settlement, The Cincinnati Enquirer reported Saturday. The lawsuit,
filed five years ago, alleged terminally ill cancer patients who sought
treatment at Cincinnati General Hospital between 1960 and 1971 were given
full-body and partial-body doses of radiation so that researchers could measure
the effects. The facility is now known as University Hospital. The agreement was
reached Friday when the last surviving patient from the study agreed to its
terms. The suit named the hospital and the federal government among defendants
and it contended many of the patients' deaths were hastened by the treatment.
Researchers in the 11-year study defended their actions as attempts to cure or
ease pain in the earliest days of radiation therapy. The government was included
in the suit because the Defense Department paid $ 651,000 for the test results
to learn about the effects of radiation exposure.

Man may have tried to send bomb to Clinton

A man who told a judge he is guilty of trying to send a bomb to a federal office
in Las Vegas may also have tried to send one to President Bill Clinton, law
enforcement sources say. The suspect, Frank Darwin Alexander, tried to plead
guilty to federal explosives charges in Las Vegas on Friday, but a magistrate
judge refused to accept the plea. A prosecutor said Alexander is a
self-described admirer of Oklahoma City bomber Timothy McVeigh and serial
mail-bomber Theodore Kaczynski.

Alexander is due back in court in Las Vegas on Friday. Meanwhile, federal
investigators are examining charred remains of a mail bomb found at a Washington
post office. They are looking for evidence that it may have been sent by
Alexander and may have been meant to be delivered to the White House.

Firm recalls beef products linked to illness

A Minnesota firm has recalled more than 170,000 pounds of beef products linked
to six illnesses from a deadly strain of E. coli bacteria in Maine, the U.S.
Agriculture Department said Friday. The beef was produced by Rochester Meats,
Inc., of Rochester, Minn., and was distributed nationwide only to wholesale and
institutional customers. The bacteria are killed when meat is cooked to an
internal temperature of 160 degrees Fahrenheit. Included in the recall is frozen
ground beef, ground beef patties, ground chuck patties, chopped beefsteak, chili
meat, beef patty mix and pure beef. All the recalled products were produced
December 1. The meat could then have been served to consumers in restaurants or
other public eateries, the agency said.

LOAD-DATE: July 25, 1999

LANGUAGE: English

                  Copyright 1999 St. Louis Post-Dispatch, Inc.


                              42 of 457 DOCUMENTS

                       St. Louis Post-Dispatch (Missouri)

                 April 9, 1999, Friday, FIVE STAR LIFT EDITION

NATION

BYLINE: From News Services

SECTION: NEWS, Pg. A6, NATION BRIEFS COLUMN

LENGTH: 639 words



Jurors weigh key element of McDougal's defense

Jurors in Little Rock, Ark., deliberating Susan McDougal's fate asked Thursday
whether they can consider an "innocent reason" for her refusal to testify in the
Whitewater investigation of President Bill Clinton. In a note to the judge,
jurors asked a question that goes to the heart of McDougal's defense: She feared
prosecutor Kenneth Starr would charge her with perjury unless she falsely
implicated the president and his wife in wrongdoing. U.S. District Judge George
Howard Jr. responded to the jurors' question by letting them sort out the issue
for themselves, referring the panel back to the instructions he read them
earlier in the day.

2 more Mexicans are found dead of exposure

The bodies of two more suspected illegal immigrants have been found in the rural
Southwest, raising the toll from a weekend snowstorm to at least 10. Hector
Lopez, 30, of Santa Ana, Mexico, and Cesar Fernandez, 44, of Hermosillo, Mexico,
died of exposure, the Pima County medical examiner's office said Wednesday in
Tucson, Ariz. Eight suspected illegal immigrants died of hypothermia after being
caught in the storm late last week. Officials from the U.S. Border Control and
other agencies rescued more than 50 immigrants Thursday and Friday in and around
the Cleveland National Forest, about 40 miles east of San Diego. The two men who
died in Arizona were among at least three who crossed the border together over
the weekend but split up as they grew sick from the cold, sheriff's Sgt. Brad
Foust said.

New Jersey Gov. Whitman launches bid for Senate

Republican Gov. Christie Whitman of New Jersey on Thursday launched her bid for
the U.S. Senate seat being vacated by Democrat Frank Lautenberg. Whitman formed
a fund-raising committee. The second-term governor, long seen as a Republican
Party star, ended speculation about her political future by kicking off an
effort to become New Jersey's first elected Republican senator since the 1970s.
Whitman said her experience as governor prepares her well for the Senate job.
She is barred by law from seeking a third consecutive term as governor. Her
current term runs through January 2002.

Cleveland joins six cities suing gun industry

Cleveland filed suit against the gun industry Thursday, joining six other U.S.
municipalities who are suing in hopes of making guns safer. Mayor Michael White
said the city filed suit in Cuyahoga County Common Pleas Court against 17 major
handgun makers, including industry leader Smith & Wesson Corp., based in
Springfield, Mass., and three trade associations. White said Cleveland's suit
was not aimed at banning firearms or limiting individuals' rights. "The suit ...
is aimed at making guns safer and making the gun industry accountable for its
products and its actions," he said in a statement. Other cities that have filed
suits against the gun industry are New Orleans, New York, Chicago, Miami,
Atlanta and Bridgeport, Conn.

DNA links suspect to 17 rapes, New York police say

A man suspected of raping dozens of women has been linked by DNA evidence to 17
attacks, New York City police said Thursday. Police say that Issac Jones, 34,
raped 51 women in 39 different attacks. Jones was arrested Tuesday. Police say
he is the man they were searching for when four officers shot and killed an
unarmed immigrant on Feb. 4, a killing that sparked protests by hundreds of
people. Police Commissioner Howard Safir said Jones lived less than a mile from
the immigrant, Amadou Diallo, and many of the rapes took place in his Bronx
neighborhood. Jones was held without bail on charges of rape, robbery,
possessing a weapon and possessing stolen property. He has confessed to four
rapes, Safir said. Rachel Dole, his court-appointed attorney, declined to
comment.

LOAD-DATE: July 25, 1999

LANGUAGE: English

                  Copyright 1999 St. Louis Post-Dispatch, Inc.


                              43 of 457 DOCUMENTS

                       St. Louis Post-Dispatch (Missouri)

                   May 6, 1999, Thursday, THREE STAR EDITION

PLAN WOULD JAIL ILLEGAL ALIENS BY NATIONALITY IN TEXAS OR CHICAGO

BYLINE: The Associated Press

SECTION: NEWS, Pg. A9

LENGTH: 393 words

DATELINE: CHICAGO


The Immigration and Naturalization Service plans to group illegal immigrants by
nationality and ship them to jails in either Texas or Chicago to await
deportation hearings.

Currently, illegal immigrants awaiting deportation are generally jailed in
whatever part of the country they are arrested.

The INS said the "hub" plan would be an efficient way to process detainees, most
of whom are simply awaiting exit papers.

Critics, however, said the proposal is racist and would demoralize immigrants,
leaving them hundreds of miles from their families and any support services they
would need if they choose to fight deportation.

"It's almost like the INS has forgotten they're people and not packages," said
Rep. Luis Gutierrez, D-Ill., chairman of the immigration task force of the
Congressional Hispanic Caucus. "It's like Federal Express." The group has sent a
letter of protest.

The plan would encompass the 18 states in the agency's central region. Illegal
Mexican, Central American and Caribbean immigrants would be moved to separate
centers in Texas. All other immigrants in question - those from Europe, Asia and
Africa - would be shipped to Chicago.

The INS said the plan is open to revision - although officials would like to
implement it early this summer.

The agency said it is under pressure from Congress to quickly move immigrants
out of detention. It said that many detainees - about 4,300 are in the central
region - are convicted criminals who already have their deportation orders.

"We want these people near where we can quickly move them to their home
country," said Brian Perryman, director of the INS district office in Chicago.
"A very small percentage of them are going to prevail even on appeal. Most of
them are going out."

But immigrants rights groups believe that the plan essentially assures that all
detained immigrants will be removed from the country. "I think plantation slave
owners were really clear that when you broke up families and sent them in lots
of different directions you really did an effective job of breaking down
people's sense of community and possibility and hope," said Alice Cottingham of
the Chicago-based Fund for Immigrants and Refugees. "I don't know how deliberate
INS is in trying to get that same re sult, but I think anybody could guess
that's going to be the result."

LOAD-DATE: July 12, 1999

LANGUAGE: English

                  Copyright 1999 St. Louis Post-Dispatch, Inc.


                              44 of 457 DOCUMENTS

                       St. Louis Post-Dispatch (Missouri)

              July 7, 1999, Wednesday, ILLINOIS FIVE STAR EDITION

FRANCHISEES FILE SUIT AGAINST DUNKIN' DONUTS IN CLOSING OF THREE STORES

SECTION: METRO, Pg. B2

LENGTH: 251 words


Three Dunkin' Donuts stores had to be closed because managers recommended by the
company were hiring illegal immigrants, according to a suit filed Tuesday in
Edwardsville.

The suit in Madison County by Richard S. Wittels and Ralona J. Wittels said
their franchise stores in Alton, Wood River and Dellwood closed after raids by
the U.S. Immigration and Naturalization Service in December 1996 found illegal
immigrants working there.

The Wittelses said they did not know that the managers and some other D unkin'
Donut stores in the St. Louis area already were under investigation by the INS
when the Wittelses hired the two managers on the advice of a Dunkin' Donuts
representative.

The Wittelses, who operated their stores as Riverbend Bakeries Inc., said in the
suit that Dunkin' Donuts did not inform them that other stores in the area
"conducted illegal employment practices and either hired or were suspected of
hiring illegal aliens."

The suit asked a judge to order the company that owns Dunkin' Donuts, Allied
Dome Retailing USA of Randolph, Mass., to pay more than $ 50,000 in actual
damages and an unspecified amount in punitive damages. The suit charges that the
company was negligent, violated its contract with the Wittelses, violated the
Illinois Consumer Fraud and Deceptives Business Practices Act, and made
fraudulent misrepresentations.

Ben Newell, a spokesman for Allied Dome, said he had not seen the suit and
company policy was to withhold comment on pending cases.

LOAD-DATE: July 7, 1999

LANGUAGE: English

                  Copyright 1999 St. Louis Post-Dispatch, Inc.


                              45 of 457 DOCUMENTS

                       St. Louis Post-Dispatch (Missouri)

                 August 9, 1999, Monday, FIVE STAR LIFT EDITION

IMMIGRATION OFFICE WILL OPEN NEAR SPRINGFIELD, MO.;
LATIN AMERICAN IMMIGRANTS ARE DRAWN BY JOB PROSPECTS

BYLINE: The Associated Press

SECTION: METRO, Pg. D4

LENGTH: 269 words

DATELINE: KANSAS CITY


Thousands of Latin American immigrants have settled in Missouri's Ozarks in
recent years, attracted by jobs in poultry plants and factories.

Beginning next month, the region will have yet another new resident that
reflects the Ozarks' changing demographics.

The Immigration and Naturalization Service will open an office in Strafford,
near Springfield, as part of the agency's expansion into emerging immigration
centers.

The office is one of 45 new locations in 11 states whose staff will focus on
immigrant smuggling, document fraud, employment violations and other crimes.

Michael Jaromin, the immigration agency's deputy district director, said
southwest Missouri has its share of immigration violations and related crime.

"We do believe it is a problem. That is part of the reason we're going out
there," said Jaromin, whose Kansas City office will oversee the team.

The new immigration office will open Sept. 1 about 10 miles east of Springfield.
The office will employ 11, including seven special agents who will focus on
enforcement.

The center will keep undocumented immigrants for brief stays during processing.
Some residents had feared that the center would function as a jail, but
officials said no one would stay overnight.

The latest immigration agency figures show about 18,000 undocumented immigrants
in Missouri, although Jaromin said he thought those estimates were low.

The Rev. Bill Hodgson, who works in the Hispanic ministry for the Roman Catholic
Diocese of Springfield-Cape Girardeau, said his immigrant parishioners hoped the
agency would not become heavy-handed.

LOAD-DATE: August 9, 1999

LANGUAGE: English

                  Copyright 1999 St. Louis Post-Dispatch, Inc.


                              46 of 457 DOCUMENTS

                       St. Louis Post-Dispatch (Missouri)

                August 15, 1999, Sunday, FIVE STAR LIFT EDITION

37 SUSPECTED ILLEGAL ALIENS ARE ARRESTED AT PLANT;
PROSECUTORS HAVEN'T RULED OUT CHARGES AGAINST FIRM IN STEELEVILLE, ILL.

BYLINE: Roy Malone; Of The Post-Dispatch

SECTION: METRO, Pg. C4

LENGTH: 243 words

DATELINE: EAST ST. LOUIS


Thirty-seven suspected illegal aliens were hauled into federal court Friday
morning still dressed in the white uniforms of the food company they worked at
in Steeleville, Ill.

They were arrested Thursday by Steeleville police, Illinois State Police and
agents of the Immigration and Naturalization Service.

They stood before U.S. Magistrate Judge Gerald B. Cohn while federal prosecutors
explained how they were arrested at the Gilster Mary-Lee Corp. plant in
Steeleville, in Randolph County.

Some spoke marginal English and many spoke only Spanish.

After their appearance, the U.S. Marshals' Service transported the immigrants to
various jails in the area. Most were expected back in court Monday morning for
further processing. If they plead guilty, they could be sent immediately back to
their home country.

Four are from Honduras, the rest from Mexico. Eight were charged with using
phony Social Security numbers, a felony, and the remaining 29 were charged with
entering the country illegally, a misdemeanor.

The Gilster Mary-Lee plant makes hundreds of food products for sale to major
grocery chains. It has 15 plants in the Midwest and its headquarters is in
Chester, Ill. A spokesman said the company had no comment.

Federal prosecutors said no charges have been filed against the firm but
declined to say if charges might be possible later. It is a criminal offense to
knowingly hire illegal aliens, one prosecutor said.

LOAD-DATE: August 15, 1999

LANGUAGE: English

                  Copyright 1999 St. Louis Post-Dispatch, Inc.


                              47 of 457 DOCUMENTS

                       St. Louis Post-Dispatch (Missouri)

                August 20, 1999, Friday, FIVE STAR LIFT EDITION

TEXAS TOWN PASSES ORDINANCE TO CONDUCT ALL CITY MEETINGS IN SPANISH;
IT ALSO PROHIBITS CITY WORKERS FROM TURNING IN ILLEGAL ALIENS

BYLINE: The Associated Press

SECTION: NEWS, Pg. A14

LENGTH: 621 words

DATELINE: EL CENIZO, TEXAS



Habla espanol?

If not, you might walk into an El Cenizo city meeting and wonder what side of
the Rio Grande you're on.

Two weeks ago, the town's commissioners passed an ordinance declaring that all
city meetings and functions would be held in Spanish. Ordinances and resolutions
still will be written in English, but the city will translate them into Spanish
upon request. The commissioners also passed a measure forbidding city employees
to turn in illegal immigrants.

El Cenizo is believed to be the only U.S. city with an all-Spanish policy.
English translations of meetings are available but must be requested 48 hours in
advance.

"It's not because we don't speak English," said City Commissioner Flora Barton.
"It's because we're doing it for those that speak only Spanish, and we want
everybody to be comfortable and to understand and to be aware of what's going on
here in El Cenizo."

El Cenizo is a largely blue-collar town of 7,800 about 10 miles outside Laredo.
Its main streets are paved, but dirt roads also run through the city. Well-kept,
modest houses exist side by side with ramshackle homes and buildings. For years,
the city had no garbage or ambulance service.

Barton estimates that more than 90 percent of El Cenizo's residents speak
Spanish, though many are bilingual. A few people, particularly younger ones,
speak only English.

For several years, meetings have been bilingual, since residents routinely asked
commissioners to explain things in Spanish, she said. But some Spanish-speakers
wouldn't attend city meetings because of the language barrier and were surprised
by the commissioners' decision.

The most recent City Council meeting, on Aug. 12, was conducted in Spanish after
passage of the measure. English First, a Virginia-based org anization working to
make English the official language of the country and to undo bilingual
education, opposed the city's actions.

"El Cenizo is the canary in the mine," English First's executive director, Jim
Boulet Jr., said Thursday.

"I think this is a wake-up call to this country, where in a land where 328
different languages are spoken, that we either are going to speak in one
language in this nation of immigrants or we are going to be speaking in many."

In addition to the language measure, El Cenizo passed a Safe Haven Ordinance,
forbidding city employees and officials to ask residents whether they are legal
immigrants or citizens or to help an agency like the Border Patrol and the
Immigration and Naturalization Service find illegal immigrants. City employees
who violate the ordinance can be fired.

Barton said the city still would cooperate with the Border Patrol on other
matters, such as stopping drug smuggling.

She said the ordinance was not aimed at making El Cenizo a haven for illegal
immigrants. She said residents simply resented constantly having to prove their
status to the Border Patrol.

A federal Immigration agency spokesman, Tomas Zuniga, warned: "If there comes a
time when we come into conflict with the city ordinances, we would pursue the
matter at that time. I don't foresee it going that far, but the extreme level
would be where we take action through legal means."

Jessika Silva, director of the El Cenizo Community Center, said the
Spanish-language ordinance reflected a reality for many people in El Cenizo:
"They have to work hard all day so they don't have time to learn English."

But Virginia Salazar, an El Cenizo resident who teaches nutrition at a community
clinic, believes the ordinance is wrong-headed.

"We want our children to get educated," she said. "We want them to have better
jobs, to progress. It looks like we're going backward instead of progressing."

LOAD-DATE: August 20, 1999

LANGUAGE: English

GRAPHIC: PHOTO THE ASSOCIATED PRESS Photo - City Commissioner Flora Barton
explains that El Cenizo, Texas, wants "everybody to be comfortable" when they
attend council meetings. Most people in town speak Spanish.

                  Copyright 1999 St. Louis Post-Dispatch, Inc.


                              48 of 457 DOCUMENTS

                       St. Louis Post-Dispatch (Missouri)

               December 28, 1999, Tuesday, FIVE STAR LIFT EDITION

7 JORDANIANS HELD AT CANADIAN BORDER ARE CLEARED OF TERRORISM

BYLINE: The Associated Press

SECTION: NEWS, Pg. A4

LENGTH: 241 words

DATELINE: SEATTLE


Seven Jordanians were arrested at the Canadian border on what officials Monday
called routine illegal immigration charges - not terrorist suspicions, as
originally announced.

Three men, two women and two children were taken into custody by U.S. officials
Sunday afternoon near the checkpoint at Blaine, Wash. The crossing was shut down
for more than two hours.

One of the women, who was with a toddler and was in Canada legally, had left her
car at a duty-free shop on the Canadian side and walked across the border
without stopping at a checkpoint, authorities said.

U.S. Border officials picked her up and then found five other people who were
waiting to meet her - three men, a woman and a baby, said Sharon Gavin, a
spokeswoman for the Immigration and Naturalization Service. They were arrested
for overstaying their visas, authorities said.

"She was apparently coming over to meet up with her husband," Gavin said. "It
now looks like a routine smuggling case and trying to reunite a family."

Hours after the arrests, Constable Archie Alafriz of the Royal Canadian Mounted
Police reported that at least one of the men who was arrested "had an
affiliation with a known terrorist group."

But the FBI said Monday that authorities had misinterpreted a criminal record in
Philadelphia.

"It looks like, in reviewing that record, it is in connection with assault or
domestic violence," FBI agent Roberta Burroughs said.

LOAD-DATE: December 29, 1999

LANGUAGE: English

                  Copyright 1999 St. Louis Post-Dispatch, Inc.


                              49 of 457 DOCUMENTS

                       St. Louis Post-Dispatch (Missouri)

                December 30, 1999, Thursday, THREE STAR EDITION

30 CHINESE ENTER U.S. HIDDEN IN SPECIAL CARGO CONTAINERS, ARE ARRESTED;
AUTHORITIES CALL IT A "SOPHISTICATED OPERATION"

BYLINE: The Associated Press

SECTION: NEWS, Pg. A4

LENGTH: 299 words

DATELINE: LONG BEACH, CALIF.


Thirty illegal immigrants from China who crossed the Pacific in specially
outfitted cargo containers were arrested when they emerged from their hiding
places after the boxes were unloaded.

Twenty-one people were detained at the Port of Long Beach, and nine were
arrested at neighboring Los Angeles Harbor. Officials were trying to determine
Wednesday whether the two smuggling attempts were related.

"This was a very sophisticated operation," said Rosemary Melville, deputy
district director of the Immigration and Naturalization Service in Los Angeles.

The groups traveled in "soft top" containers - canvas-covered boxes about the
size of a tractor-trailer. The containers were equipped with food, water,
battery-powered lights, portable toilets, cell phones and ladders for climbing
out. Pacific crossings typically take 10 to 12 days.

The ships' crews were not suspected of any involvement, Melville said. Art Wong,
a port spokesman, said it would be unlikely for anyone to discover the stowaways
during the crossing.

"There's literally thousands of these boxes, and typically a crew of 15, so it's
not like anybody would walk by and hear them," Wong said.

The immigrants were being questioned by the Immigration service. Little was
known about them, but most were apparently from Fujian province, in southeast
China, Melville said. Both containers were loaded in Hong Kong.

Melville said two of the immigrants told interviewers that they each were
charged $ 50,000 by smugglers and had paid $ 5,000 in advance for the voyage.

Smugglers have used soft-top containers to smuggle immigrants to other West
Coast ports. After 19 people were found in a container shipped to Tacoma, Wash.,
in April, an Immigration official said it was part of a troubling trend.

LOAD-DATE: December 30, 1999

LANGUAGE: English

                  Copyright 1999 St. Louis Post-Dispatch, Inc.


                              50 of 457 DOCUMENTS

                       St. Louis Post-Dispatch (Missouri)

              January 12, 2000, Wednesday, FIVE STAR LIFT EDITION

3 CHINESE STOWAWAYS DIE IN CARGO SHIP CONTAINER;
SEATTLE AUTHORITIES FIND BODIES AND 15 SURVIVORS ON VESSEL FROM HONG KONG

BYLINE: The Associated Press

SECTION: NEWS, Pg. A3

LENGTH: 351 words

DATELINE: SEATTLE


Three Chinese stowaways were found dead this week in a cargo container that
arrived aboard a ship from Hong Kong. They were the first known deaths in what
has suddenly become one of the busiest methods of smuggling immigrants into the
United States.

Crammed into 40-foot, canvas-topped corrugated-metal boxes, the stowaways try to
survive on bottled water and little food for the two-week voyage across the
Pacific from China.

Immigration officers have stepped up efforts to catch the immigrants and the
smugglers, whom the aliens pay up to $ 50,000 to make the trip, but the boxes
keep coming.

"Until now, the prices migrants have paid for illegal passage to the United
States have been high in terms of dollars," said Bob Coleman, acting director of
the Immigration and Naturalization Service in Seattle. "But in a situation like
this, where lives are lost, the cost is unfathomable."

On Monday, federal officials boarded the Cape May, a Japanese-owned freighter
that left Hong Kong for Seattle on Dec. 27, and found three dead Chinese and 15
others in threadbare clothes and bare feet. All of them required medical care,
and seven remained hospitalized Tuesday in satisfactory condition. The cause of
death was not released.

On Tuesday morning, 19 more immigrants, all in relatively good health, were
found in a container from a ship that also docked in Hong Kong before arriving
in Seattle.

Irene Mortensen, an Immigration and Naturalization Service spokeswoman, said
conditions inside the container on the Cape May were deplorable. People barely
had enough room to lie down and had only the bedding and survival gear they
brought with them, she said. Food consisted of slowly rotting vegetables and
crackers. The only toilet was a bucket; the only ventilation came from holes cut
in the canvas roof.

For years, Chinese smugglers have been bringing illegal immigrants to the United
States aboard ships to both coasts and through Canada. But the use of the sealed
containers is a relatively new twist, and Monday's deaths were the first known
to have occurred through that method.

LOAD-DATE: January 12, 2000

LANGUAGE: English

GRAPHIC: PHOTO Photo from THE ASSOCIATED PRESS - Illegal immigrants from China
huddle at Seattle's port Monday. U.S. officers have stepped up efforts to catch
illegal immigrants and smugglers, whom aliens pay up to $ 50,000 for their
service.

                  Copyright 2000 St. Louis Post-Dispatch, Inc.


                              51 of 457 DOCUMENTS

                       St. Louis Post-Dispatch (Missouri)

                  January 30, 2000, Sunday, THREE STAR EDITION

ONE OF CONTINENT'S MOST POLLUTED RIVERS IS ROUTE INTO U.S. FOR ILLEGAL;
IMMIGRANTS;
MEXICAN NATIONALS FLOAT PAST BORDER PATROL AGENTS WHO WON'T ENTER WATER

BYLINE: The Associated Press

SECTION: NEWS, Pg. A12

LENGTH: 712 words

DATELINE: CALEXICO, CALIF.


Two Border Patrol agents stand on the banks of one of the most polluted rivers
in North America and shout at six illegal immigrants in their underwear who have
floated into the United States on an inner tube.

"Get out of the river! It's very dangerous!" George Wetjen calls out in Spanish
to the men just 10 feet away.

But the immigrants ignore the agents. They float past and vanish into the night,
holding the inner tube with one hand and gripping black plastic bags containing
their dry clothes with the other.

The immigrants have beaten the Border Patrol. That's because agents draw the
line at getting in the New River - an oily, foul-smelling stew of raw sewage,
industrial waste, agricultural runoff and trash.

The river flows north from the border city of Mexicali, Mexico, and empties into
the Salton Sea in the California desert.

Desperate to reach the United States and blocked by tighter security elsewhere
along the Southwestern border, illegal immigrants use the river as a nearly
guaranteed path into the region east of San Diego, one of the nation's busiest
corridors for illegal immigration.

Some immigrants may not know the New River is badly polluted. Others don't care.

The river is posted with signs warning of drowning, rattlesnakes and the
treacherous terrain, but not pollution. Still, a glance and a sniff are all it
takes to know. Stiff clumps of foam glide along on the surface. Plastic jugs,
empty cans and blocks of wood bob in the water and line the banks. The stench of
sewage is overpowering.

What's not seen are the carcinogens, bacteria and viruses.

The Environmental Protection Agency lists the river as one of the most polluted
in North America. It contains 15 million gallons of untreated or partially
treated sewage from the overwhelmed sewer system in Mexicali, a city of more
than 600,000.

Eugenia McNaughton, who monitors the river for the EPA, said Mexico and the
United States are working to reduce the pollution, spending $ 50 million to
expand Mexicali's sewer capacity.

Anyone who swims in the river risks exposure to such things as salmonella,
typhoid, E. coli bacteria and parasites, said Yvonne Smith, public health
director for Imperial County.

"It's like having a rattlesnake in your back yard," she said. "You have no idea
when it's going to hit and make someone sick."

Sometimes agents find dark-colored vomit from immigrants who swallowed river
water and got sick after reaching the river banks.

But if immigrants are falling ill from the water, they aren't reporting it, said
Vivian Perez, administrator of an Imperial Valley clinic for migrant workers.

"They make jokes about it," Perez said. "They say, 'Go in the New River and you
come out glowing.'"

Earlier this month, Border Patrol agent Matt Daly fell in while chasing a group
of immigrants. He immediately went back to the station for a shower, then to a
hospital for a hepatitis A vaccine and a polio booster shot.

"I got some in my mouth. It was a bad experience," he said.

At least 11 immigrants floated through the gap in the 12-foot steel border fence
on Jan. 23. Wetjen said 75 made it the night before and 25 earlier that week.

Jose Luis Angel, who monitors the river for the state Water Resources Control
Board, has photographed immigrants camouflaging themselves with the river's
foam, piling it on their heads as they float downstream. Border agents have seen
parents use the foam to hide their babies and older children.

About 20 minutes after the men passed Wetjen on the inner tube, he spotted them
walking down a Calexico street in dry clothes. He stopped his vehicle, but they
scattered when he got out. Wetjen caught one.

The one caught, Francisco Campos, said he is from Jalisco state on Mexico's
Pacific coast. He had been headed for the San Fernando Valley in Los Angeles to
work. Campos, wearing a flannel work shirt, boots and a Denver Broncos baseball
cap, said he had never heard of the New River until he arrived in Mexicali three
days earlier.

"I didn't know it was dangerous," he said. "They said there's no current, but
the current is really strong. And it's cold."

Campos was returned to Mexico with a warning that he shower and change clothes
to avoid getting sick.

LOAD-DATE: January 31, 2000

LANGUAGE: English

                  Copyright 2000 St. Louis Post-Dispatch, Inc.


                              52 of 457 DOCUMENTS

                       St. Louis Post-Dispatch (Missouri)

                  February 4, 2000, Friday, THREE STAR EDITION

CENSUS BUREAU URGES ILLEGAL IMMIGRANTS TO FILL OUT FORM

BYLINE: The Associated Press

SECTION: NEWS, Pg. A12

LENGTH: 364 words

DATELINE: CHICAGO


A census worker at the front door often means one thing to illegal immigrants -
trouble.

"A lot of people think, 'Hey, who's this guy coming to my door? Probably
Immigration,'" says Alejandro Lopez, a Chicagoan and one of many people being
asked to spread the word about the census in the nation's often undercounted
minority communities.

The word is this: Whether you are here legally or not, you should fill out the
questionnaire when it arrives in April. Officials at the Census Bureau say they
don't care if you're here illegally. In fact, they won't even ask.

"The Census doesn't exist to do law enforcement," says Dianne Schmidley, a
census demographer. "Our job is to get a body count."

The Census Bureau asks whether those in the household are citizens. But it has
never distinguished between aliens in this country legally and those who are
here illegally, because the Constitution simply calls for a head count.

Schmidley says the singling out of illegal immigrants would only lower a
response rate that already is expected to be the lowest in history - 61 percent,
compared with 75 percent of households in 1980 and 65 percent in 1990.

Mostly, poor people and minorities get missed.

In 1990, census officials estimate they undercounted Indians on reservations by
12.2 percent, Hispanics by 5.5 percent, blacks by 4.4 percent and
Asian-Americans by 2.3 percent. They estimate that only 0.7 percent of
non-Hispanic whites were not counted.

Undercounting can be costly to communities, because they can lose money for
everything from schools to fire stations. It can also mean the loss of political
representation.

That's why activists like Ana Maria Soto spend many nights and weekends talking
to community groups and church congregations about the census.

"We're not getting our piece of the pie, and that needs to change - because
we're hungry," says Soto, of the Mexican American Legal Defense and Education
Fund in Chicago.

The Federation for American Immigration Reform has twice sued the Census Bureau
to get it to stop including illegal immigrants in numbers used to apportion
seats in Congress. Both lawsuits were thrown out.

LOAD-DATE: February 4, 2000

LANGUAGE: English

                  Copyright 2000 St. Louis Post-Dispatch, Inc.


                              53 of 457 DOCUMENTS

                       St. Louis Post-Dispatch (Missouri)

                  February 4, 2000, Friday, THREE STAR EDITION

CENSUS BUREAU URGES ILLEGAL IMMIGRANTS TO FILL OUT FORM

BYLINE: The Associated Press

SECTION: NEWS, Pg. A12

LENGTH: 363 words

DATELINE: CHICAGO


A census worker at the front door often means one thing to illegal immigrants -
trouble.

"A lot of people think, 'Hey, who's this guy coming to my door? Probably
Immigration,'" says Alejandro Lopez, a Chicagoan and one of many people being
asked to spread the word about the census in the nation's often undercounted
minority communities.

The word is this: Whether you are here legally or not, you should fill out the
questionnaire when it arrives in April. Officials at the Census Bureau say they
don't care if you're here illegally. In fact, they won't even ask.

"The Census doesn't exist to do law enforcement," says Dianne Schmidley, a
census demographer. "Our job is to get a body count."

The Census Bureau asks whether those in the household are citizens. But it has
never distinguished between aliens in this country legally and those who are
here illegally, because the Constitution simply calls for a head count.

Schmidley says the singling out of illegal immigrants would only lower a
response rate that already is expected to be the lowest in history - 61 percent,
compared with 75 percent of households in 1980 and 65 percent in 1990.

Mostly, poor people and minorities get missed.

In 1990, census officials estimate they undercounted Indians on reservations by
12.2 percent, Hispanics by 5.5 percent, blacks by 4.4 percent and
Asian-Americans by 2.3 percent. They estimate that only 0.7 percent of
non-Hispanic whites were not counted.

Undercounting can be costly to communities, because they can lose money for
everything from schools to fire stations. It can also mean the loss of political
representation.

That's why activists like Ana Maria Soto spend many nights and weekends talking
to community groups and church congregations about the census.

"We're not getting our piece of the pie, and that needs to change - because
we're hungry," says Soto, of the Mexican American Legal Defense and Education
Fund in Chicago.

The Federation for American Immigration Reform has twice sued the Census Bureau
to get it to stop including illegal immigrants in numbers used to apportion
seats in Congress. Both lawsuits were thrown out.

LOAD-DATE: February 4, 2000

LANGUAGE: English

                  Copyright 2000 St. Louis Post-Dispatch, Inc.


                              54 of 457 DOCUMENTS

                       St. Louis Post-Dispatch (Missouri)

                 March 7, 2000, Tuesday, FIVE STAR LIFT EDITION

NATION

BYLINE: From News Services

SECTION: NEWS, Pg. A8

LENGTH: 631 words



WEST

SAN DIEGO

3 illegal immigrants die in winter snowstorm

Three illegal immigrants died after being caught in a winter storm in the
mountains east of San Diego. Authorities launched a search Monday for others at
risk from the cold.

The bodies of the three men were pulled Monday from the snow-frosted mountains
of the Cleveland National Forest, a busy corridor for illegal immigration from
Mexico.

Sick and cold illegal immigrants stumbled out of the Laguna Mountains all day
Monday after a weekend storm dumped 6 to 8 inches of snow. Temperatures Sunday
night plunged to lows of between 20 and 34 degrees. A total of 30 people were
rescued and were taken to hospitals for treatment.

===

EAST

WASHINGTON

11 black farmers are arrested in protest

Eleven black farmers were arrested Monday outside the Department of Agriculture
during a protest over alleged racism at the agency, a government spokesman said.

The farmers were arrested for blocking the doorway to the Agriculture
Department's headquarters. The farmers were taken away, given a citation
amounting to $ 25 and released.

The arrested were among several dozen black farmers who held a protest outside
the agriculture department on Monday. The farmers argue that despite a
multibillion-dollar settlement reached last year between black farmers and the
government to end a racism lawsuit against the department, nothing has changed
at the agency.

WASHINGTON

Officers seek quick ruling over civil rights charges

Representatives of four white New York City policemen acquitted in the fatal
shooting of an unarmed black man asked a top Justice Department official Monday
to decide quickly whether federal civil rights charges will be brought. They
expressed fears the case would be further politicized if it dragged out.

The police union officials noted that President Bill Clinton spoke about the
case last weekend, saying he believes race may have been a factor in the
shooting of Amadou Diallo.

"The president is involved in politics and he's concerned about the Senate race
that his wife is running in New York City," Patrolmen's Benevolent Association
President Patrick Lynch said after a meeting with Deputy Attorney General Eric
Holder, the department's No. 2 official. Hillary Rodham Clinton is running for
the Senate in New York.

===

SOUTH

CAPE CANAVERAL, Fla.

Shuttle's communications antenna is damaged

Workers inadvertently damaged an antenna on space shuttle Atlantis while
preparing the ship for an April launch, NASA said Monday.

The dish-shaped antenna, 3 feet in diameter and made of graphite epoxy, was
being folded down into its launch position when it banged into the basket of a
work bridge on Sunday night, NASA spokesman Joel Wells said. The bridge had been
erected along the length of the shuttle payload bay.

The antenna ended up with a quarter-inch nick that engineers believe can be
repaired, Wells said. The antenna provides the main communication link between
the orbiting shuttle and Mission Control. Atlantis is scheduled to blast off no
earlier than April 13 with supplies and replacement parts for the international
space station.

MIAMI

About 87,000 ecstasy pills are seized at airport

U.S. customs agents have seized 38 pounds of the drug ecstasy that was flown
from the Netherlands to Newark International Airport for distribution through
Miami's club and rave party scene, customs officials said Monday.

Customs Service spokesman Zack Mann said that about 87,000 pills, with an
estimated street value of more than $ 3 million, were seized Saturday at the New
Jersey airport in the luggage of 52-year-old British-born Trevor Shepherd.

Shepherd was arrested.

LOAD-DATE: March 7, 2000

LANGUAGE: English

TYPE: Nation Briefs Column

                  Copyright 2000 St. Louis Post-Dispatch, Inc.


                              55 of 457 DOCUMENTS

                       St. Louis Post-Dispatch (Missouri)

                June 21, 2000, Wednesday, FIVE STAR LIFT EDITION

SECOND MAN IS HELD IN DEATH OF IMMIGRANTS;
58 CHINESE DIED; POLICE WAIT TO QUESTION TWO WHO SURVIVED ORDEAL IN TRUCK

BYLINE: The Associated Press

SECTION: NEWS, Pg. A3

LENGTH: 460 words

DATELINE: LONDON


Police said Tuesday that they had arrested a second suspect in the deaths of 58
Chinese illegal immigrants.

The immigrants were found dead late Sunday at the English port of Dover,
apparently suffocated in the back of an unventilated truck on the final leg of
their trip.

The Dutch truck driver was detained in Dover and held on suspicion of
manslaughter, and on Tuesday, Dutch authorities announced the second arrest.
They said they had captured the suspect in a raid Monday on three houses in the
Dutch port of Rotterdam.

Police did not release the suspect's name and refused to say whether the suspect
was a man they had been pursuing, Arie Van der Spek, 24, a Dutch engineer who
owned the company that leased the truck. Police said earlier that Van der Spek
registered the company, Van der Spek Transporten, on June 15. He vanished before
police showed up Monday at his apartment in Rotterdam.

In Dover, Dutch and British police interrogated the truck driver who transported
the young immigrants, most in their 20s, on the last leg of their trip from
southern China's Fujian province. And in Canterbury, the only two survivors
remained under police guard Tuesday, traumatized by their futile struggle to
escape the truck.

Quoting unidentified hospital sources, reports in London newspapers said the two
men had told an interpreter how they banged on the truck's walls and shouted,
their desperation mounting as their companions began to pass out and die.

The survivors are key to tracing the smugglers who organized the journey across
the English Channel from Belgium. The immigrants were packed in among tomatoes,
and the truck's refrigeration unit was turned off as temperatures outside
reached the high 80s, the hottest day of the year so far.

Police hoped that the two men would soon be fit enough for formal questioning.

"To have 60 young people in the back of a truck, there would have to have been
some organization to get these people over from China," Kent county police
Detective Superintendent Dennis McGookin said. "In (talking) with the Chinese
police, hopefully we will know more on this soon."

About 150,000 Chinese are living in Britain, many working for low wages in
restaurants in London's Chinatown district. A Chinese lawyer in London, Wahplow
Tan, said relatives of victims feared deportation if they came forward.

The disaster has focused international attention on the syndicates that traffic
in people and on the desperate risks illegal immigrants take to flee oppression
or poverty. Fujian, the Chinese province the immigrants left, is one example: It
is notorious for immigrant-smuggling gangs known as snake heads who charge up to
$ 60,000 a person for perilous, illegal passages to the West.

LOAD-DATE: June 21, 2000

LANGUAGE: English

                  Copyright 2000 St. Louis Post-Dispatch, Inc.


                              56 of 457 DOCUMENTS

                       St. Louis Post-Dispatch (Missouri)

                June 22, 2000, Thursday, FIVE STAR LIFT EDITION

TRUCK COMPANY OWNER IS ARRESTED IN DEATHS OF 58 IMMIGRANTS;
VICTIMS WERE STOWED IN TRUCK CARRYING TOMATOES ON FERRY

BYLINE: From News Services

SECTION: NEWS, Pg. A9

LENGTH: 444 words

DATELINE: LONDON


Police on Wednesday arrested the owner of the trucking company that carried 58
illegal Chinese immigrants to their deaths in an unventilated truck. An attorney
said the vehicle was so full that eight other would-be stowaways were turned
away.

Arie van der Spek, 24, surrendered to police in the Dutch port of Rotterdam on
Tuesday night. He is the third person in custody in the suffocation deaths of
the immigrants, who were found Sunday by inspectors in the English port of
Dover.

The 58 victims, along with two survivors, were discovered when customs officials
opened a truck arriving by ferry from the Belgian port of Zeebrugge. The
immigrants, all in their 20s, were stowed with a cargo of tomatoes. They died of
respiratory failure. The truck's cooling system had been switched off.

Meanwhile, Wah-Piow Tan, a London lawyer who represents Chinese asylum-seekers,
said one of the eight would-be stowaways called his family in China to let them
know he had not made the disastrous trip.

"Sixty-eight people were supposed to board that truck, but eight were bumped off
because it was so full," Tan said. "One of them called his family when he heard
of the deaths to let them know that he was all right. He'd been swearing and
cursing when he wasn't allowed on the truck."

The disaster has prompted an international police operation to hunt down
immigrant-smuggling racketeers.

Police began checking fingerprints of a group of Chinese migrants who were
detained in April at two Belgian villages, Bornem and Puurs. The migrants fit
the description of those found on Sunday.

After fingerprinting the group, Belgian authorities ordered them to leave, and
placed them unescorted on a train to Antwerp. The migrants disappeared, and some
may have ended up among the victims at Dover.

Film shot by Belgian television when the group departed from a village station
showed fit-looking young Chinese dressed in smart casual clothes, and smiling
and waving at the cameras.

Belgium said it did not detain or forcibly deport the illegal immigrants to
China because they were in transit.

"It emphasizes yet again the need to take action at an international and, in
particular, at a European level," Prime Minister Tony Blair told Parliament.

Besides van der Spek, a 55-year-old man is also under arrest in the Netherlands
in the case, and police are interrogating the truck's Dutch driver.

Kent County police said Wednesday that authorities are still trying to identify
the victims. The two survivors remained hospitalized under guard.

British police have declined to comment on reports that Chinese crime syndicates
had a role in the tragedy.

LOAD-DATE: June 22, 2000

LANGUAGE: English

                  Copyright 2000 St. Louis Post-Dispatch, Inc.


                              57 of 457 DOCUMENTS

                       St. Louis Post-Dispatch (Missouri)

                  August 11, 1996, Sunday, THREE STAR Edition

SOME FEAR CRIME REPERCUSSIONS IF SCHOOLS OUST ILLEGAL ALIENS

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 11D

LENGTH: 637 words

DATELINE: WASHINGTON


Victor Lemus is 15 and he's scared. He likes school. He gets good grades. He
even stays late to help stage theater productions.

But Victor fears the government will kick him out of school because he's an
illegal immigrant. One of more than 640,000 undocumented schoolchildren in
America, Victor may be refused his seat in class under a new law in its final
stages of consideration in Congress.

"He gets very sad," says his mother, Norma Lemus, 34, who frets that Victor and
a younger son, now living in on the east coast, may lose their chance to make
good in America. "He cries and says, 'Mom, if only I were legal.' "

A coalition of police, teacher and immigrant groups has come together, saying
the measure would punish innocents, lead to a surge in juvenile crime and do
little to curb illegal immigration.

Last week, police chiefs in San Jose, Calif., and Los Angeles County spoke out
against the proposal, the first in a series of protests around the country.
Within the next week, chiefs in Miami and Chicago are expected to do the same.

"We need to start plugging our borders, but once the families come here, you
can't just single out the kids," says Rich Roberts, spokesman for the
International Union of Police Associations.

Jim Pasco, executive director of the 275,000-member Fraternal Order of Police,
adds: "If they're not in school, they're going to be on the streets - and
they're going to learn all the wrong things."

The Clinton administration considers the idea of banning the children from
school "nutty" and contends it would create a "farm team" for drug dealers and
gang leaders.

Several governors have also said, if left up to them, illegal immigrant children
will not be turned out of school.

But on the other side of the debate are lawmakers such as Rep. Elton Gallegly,
R-Calif., who says illegal immigrants in his state crowd classrooms, burden
school districts and steer tax dollars away from U.S.-born children.

"There is a bottom to this pit of generosity in America," insists Gallegly, the
leading advocate of the ban in Congress.

As for fears that children shut out of school would get into trouble on the
streets, Gallegly says: "That's saying we're not going to enforce this law
because we don't want to enforce other laws."

Called the "Gallegly amendment," the school measure is part of a wide-ranging
immigration bill the House passed - but is not part of the Senate's version. The
next big test comes as House and Senate conferees meet to iron out differences
in the two bills in coming weeks.

In but one sign of strong GOP support, House Speaker Newt Gingrich, R-Ga., made
an unusual appeal for votes during the House debate. "This used to be the land
of opportunity," Gingrich said. "It's now the land of welfare."

Analysts say Dole may try to capitalize on the Gallegly amendment, which he
supports, by portraying himself as tough on immigration and Clinton as soft on
the issue. Clinton's advisers have urged him to veto the entire immigration
package if the school measure is included.

Most analysts agree that merely cutting off education for children without
tightening access to jobs - the real magnet for families who come illegally -
will accomplish little.

"It's not addressing the core issue," says K.C. McAlpin of the Federati on for
American Immigration Reform, a staunch immigration-limits advocacy group.

If passed, the measure will allow states to ask for proof that students are
legal. Now, schools enroll undocumented children in accordance with a 1982 U.S.
Supreme Court decision, Plyler vs. Doe, that forbids turning them away.

The Gallegly amendment would almost certainly face a constitutional challenge.
But it might prevail, analysts say - helped by changes in federal law and a more
conservative Supreme Court.

LOAD-DATE: August 12, 1996

LANGUAGE: English

                  Copyright 1996 St. Louis Post-Dispatch, Inc.


                              58 of 457 DOCUMENTS

                       St. Louis Post-Dispatch (Missouri)

                August 16, 1996, Friday, FIVE STAR LIFT Edition

U.S. JOINS WITH POULTRY FIRMS TO DENY JOBS TO ILLEGAL IMMIGRANTS

BYLINE: Philip Dine

SECTION: BUSINESS; Pg. 7C

LENGTH: 707 words

PHILIP DINE ON LABOR COLUMN


In a bid to keep illegal immigrants out of the labor force, several poultry
companies in Missouri and six other states have joined a pioneer program of the
Immigration and Naturalization Service.

The Employment Verification Pilot involves 31 firms with 47 plants and 43,000
employees in Missouri, Arkansas, Alabama, Delaware, Maryland, Washington and
Georgia.

With 5,500 of the jobs, Missouri is second only to Georgia in the number
potentially affected by the program.

Participating companies in Missouri are Tyson Foods, Inc., with 958 employees in
Monett; Butterball Turkey Co., 1,100 workers in Carthage; Peterson Farms, 370 in
Crane; Premium Standard Foods, 650 in Milan; Hudson Foods, 121 in Monett and
1,500 in Noel; and ConAgra Frozen Foods, 725 in Milan.

The poultry industry, with 300,000 workers nationwide, was selected because the
work requires little training or language ability and hence attracts many
newcomers.

The INS calls the voluntary program the Clinton administration's "latest effort
to reduce the 'job magnet' for illegal aliens in the United States."

It's an ever-more salient topic.

Rural Midwestern and Southern areas, with many such jobs, are drawing
immigrants. Southern Illinois and central Missouri were among areas that a
research group in Washington last week labeled "hot spots" of immigration.
Midwestern meatpacking firms kicked off the INS program in May.

And immigration is likely to loom large in the presidential race. President Bill
Clinton has attempted to move toward the center by getting tough on illegal
aliens, while challenger Bob Dole sought to moderate his own stance by choosing
Jack Kemp, one of few prominent GOP politicians supportive of immigration.

"Most businesses in this country want to hire legal workers," INS Commissioner
Doris Meissner said. "Because of difficulties distinguishing between legitimate
and fraudulent documents, they have faced obstacles in trying to comply with the
law."

Using a personal computer, an employer can quickly check whether a non-citizen
is authorized to work. To avoid discriminating against the foreign-born or
foreign-appearing, the test may be done after the person has been hired.

An INS spokesman said he "hopes it's going to mushroom to all the states around
the country that have a poultry industry."

The agency may have announced the program a bit prematurely; some companies
involved are reluctant to talk about it.

"We want to work through it. . . . I don't know that we want to discuss it
openly," said Dennis Gott at Butterball's headquarters west of Chicago.

Others were more enthusiastic.

"We've been doing everything we can for years to see we don't hire anyone who's
here illegally. We are, in effect, doing the government's job for them, checking
documents. But obviously, because of the great trade in forged documents out
there, we can't catch everyone," said Tyson's Archie Schaffer from Springdale,
Ark.

His main gripe about the INS program is that it doesn't include more of Tyson's
plants.

"We are thoroughly supportive of this program, and of anything anyone else can
do to make sure we are only hiring legally documented workers."

Schaffer said that in Operation southPAW (Protecting America's Workers) a year
ago, the INS "raided a bunch of plants of ours . . . hauled out people who were
here illegally. It was a very small percentage, but we got all sorts of
criticism and bad publicity. . . . This system is somewhat in response to
Operation southPAW."

Hispanic workers represent about 20 percent of Tyson's employees in southwestern
Missouri and northwestern Arkansas, for jobs starting around $ 6 an hour,
Schaffer said.

At Hudson in Rogers, Ark., spokeswoman Terri Mallioux welcomed "any tool we can
have on our side." Her company, she said, is awaiting software and personnel
training from the INS.

"We're very optimistic it's going to help out," she said. "The poultry industry
has come under fire in recent years for having undocumented employees working in
our plants."

Hudson's Monett plant reflects the rising diversity of such businesses: Its
1,471 workers include 401 Hispanics, 10 Asians, 100 American Indians or Alaskan
natives, 12 blacks and 948 whites.

LOAD-DATE: August 16, 1996

LANGUAGE: English

                  Copyright 1996 St. Louis Post-Dispatch, Inc.


                              59 of 457 DOCUMENTS

                       St. Louis Post-Dispatch (Missouri)

               September 3, 1996, Tuesday, FIVE STAR LIFT Edition

GOV. WILSON TRIES AGAIN

SECTION: EDITORIAL; Pg. 14B

LENGTH: 474 words


What California Gov. Pete Wilson couldn't achieve with a ballot proposition that
has been blocked in the courts, he is trying to do by executive order. Taking
advantage of a provision in the new federal welfare law, he has cut off illegal
immigrants' access to benefits including housing, prenatal care and child abuse
prevention.

If the move can withstand a likely legal challenge, it may advance the
governor's punitive agenda against those who enter the United States unlawfully.
But it isn't likely to make the nation's borders less porous or improve the
lives of Californians.

Mr. Wilson was a major proponent of Proposition 187, the initiative that won
strong approval from voters in 1994 but was immediately held up by the courts.
That proposition would have kept illegal immigrants out of public schools and
barred them from receiving social welfare services or non-emergency health care.
The judge who has blocked implementation of its provisions said it usurped
federal authority over immigration.

Now, using a provision he had maneuvered to inclusion in the federal welfare
law, Mr. Wilson is again moving against the 2 million illegal aliens in
California. His order falls under part of the law that lets states provide
services to unlawful immigrants only by enacting new laws that affirm they are
eligible. The law also calls for an 18-month period during which the Justice
Department must issue rules on how the immigration status of people who are
seeking public services can be verified.

Opponents of Mr. Wilson's new order say that until those rules are complete, any
move to deny services to anyone is illegal. They worry, with good reason, that
any Californians who appear to be immigrants, physically or by name, may be
subject to untoward efforts to verify their legal status.

A more fundamental concern is the effect Mr. Wilson's order will have on the
lives of all his constituents. Do residents of California really feel that
foreign families who are desperate for a better life will stop at the border
because they can't receive some government services? Once they have entered the
United States, will such families - and the communities in which they live -
really be better off with no prenatal care and no access to programs designed to
prevent child abuse?

The best way to solve the problem of illegal immigrants is to prevent them from
entering the country in the first place, or to deport them once they have been
discovered. Already, deportations so far this year exceed the number for all of
1995 because of a higher budget for immigration officials. But as long as
illegal aliens are here, making their lives as miserable as possible -
particularly children who had little say over where they will live - is both
cruel and counter to traditions this nation should try to uphold, not erase.

LOAD-DATE: September 3, 1996

LANGUAGE: English

TYPE: EDITORIAL

                  Copyright 1996 St. Louis Post-Dispatch, Inc.


                              60 of 457 DOCUMENTS

                       St. Louis Post-Dispatch (Missouri)

              September 19, 1996, Thursday, FIVE STAR LIFT Edition

HARD LINE ON ALIEN CHILDREN STALLS GOP

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 6A

LENGTH: 664 words

DATELINE: WASHINGTON


To save a major immigration bill, divided Republicans debated on Wednesday how
to salvage a provision allowing states to bar illegal alien children from public
schools.

The current proposal would permit states to keep children who are illegal aliens
out of schools or charge tuition to families who can't prove their children are
legal U.S. residents. Such children in public elementary schools as of Sept. 30
would be able to remain through the eighth grade, and high school students would
be allowed to graduate.

Among the new proposals under study by the House GOP leadership was one to delay
action on the schools provision for a year and to order a study of illegal
immigrants in schools.

The overall legislation would nearly double the size of the Border Patrol,
increase penalties for making fraudulent documents and smuggling aliens, and
establish pilot projects for employers to verify job applicants' work
eligibility. The bill also would toughen penalties on illegal aliens caught in
the United States.

'Smart Gun'

Meanwhile, lawmakers were touting a "smart gun" that would fire only for its
owner.

Rep. Steve Schiff, R-N.M., and Rep. Patricia Schroeder, D-Colo., praised the
life-saving possibilities of the "smart gun." Statistics indicate that 16
percent of police officer deaths occur each year when a criminal uses an
officer's gun against him or her, Schiff noted.

To combat the problem, Colt's Manufacturing Co. has developed a "smart gun"
prototype, which it demonstrated at the news conference. The handgun uses a
radio frequency identification system. The handgun's owner carries a tiny
transponder, fitted into a ring or watch-like band. When the owner grips the
firearm, a "reader" inside the gun recognizes the transponder's signal and
releases the firing mechanism.

In action taken Wednesday, the House and Senate approved a $ 12.6 billion
transportation funding bill for the fiscal year that begins Oct. 1. The Senate
approved a Federal Aviation Administration authorization bill.

The transportation bill includes $ 3.5 billion for the Coast Guard, $ 6.8
billion for the FAA and $ 890 million for the Federal Railroad Administration.
(* The following text appeared in the THREE STAR edition *) The Federal Highway
Administration gets $ 20 billion from a separate highway trust fund.

Sen. Mark Hatfield, R-Ore., said the 5 percent increase in the FAA's operating
budget would allow hiring 500 new air traffic controllers and 367 aviation
safety inspectors.

The FAA authorization bill reflects growing safety and security concerns
following the ValuJet and TWA crashes. It would fund installment of new
explosives detection systems, would permit the FAA to require background checks
for newly hired airport baggage screeners and would call for a review of baggage
match procedures.

In related developments:

* Bob Dole's proposal to cut the federal gasoline tax is stuck, probably
permanently, in Congress. Dole was the Senate majority leader on April 26 when
he proposed reducing the 18.3 cent-a-gallon tax by 4.3 cents through the end of
the year.

* Dozens of House members gave up a lock of their hair Wednesday, submitting to
a voluntary drug test organized by a Rep. Joe Barton, R-Texas. He is pushing a
bill that would require mandatory random testing of House members.

* Elizabeth Morgan, 48, a plastic surgeon who went to jail to keep her daughter
from the child's allegedly abusive father, would be able to return to the United
States from New Zealand without fear of arrest under a bill passed by the House
on Wednesday. The provision was tucked into the transportation spending bill.

* House Democrats moved Wednesday to force a House vote on disclosing a secret
document on the conduct of Speaker Newt Gingrich, R-Ga. Rep. John Lewis, D-Ga.,
introduced a resolution to pry from the House ethics committee the month-old
submission by an outside counsel on Gingrich's unconventionally financed college
course.

LOAD-DATE: September 19, 1996

LANGUAGE: English

                  Copyright 1996 St. Louis Post-Dispatch, Inc.


                              61 of 457 DOCUMENTS

                       St. Louis Post-Dispatch (Missouri)

                September 19, 1996, Thursday, FIVE STAR Edition

HARD LINE ON ALIEN CHILDREN STALLS GOP

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 6A

LENGTH: 367 words

DATELINE: WASHINGTON


To save a major immigration bill, divided Republicans debated on Wednesday how
to salvage a provision allowing states to bar illegal alien children from public
schools.

The current proposal would permit states to keep children who are illegal aliens
out of schools or charge tuition to families who can't prove their children are
legal U.S. residents. Such children in public elementary schools as of Sept. 30
would be able to remain through the eighth grade, and high school students would
be allowed to graduate.

Among the new proposals under study by the House GOP was one to delay action on
the schools provision for a year and to order a study of illegal immigrants in
schools.

The overall legislation would nearly double the size of the Border Patrol,
increase penalties for making fraudulent documents and smuggling aliens, and
establish pilot projects for employers to verify job applicants' work
eligibility. The bill also would toughen penalties on illegal aliens caught in
the United States.

'Smart Gun'

Meanwhile, lawmakers were touting a "smart gun" that would fire only for its
owner.

Rep. Steve Schiff, R-N.M., and Rep. Patricia Schroeder, D-Colo., praised the
life-saving possibilities of the "smart gun." Statistics indicate that 16
percent of deaths of police officers occur each year when a criminal uses an
officer's gun against him or her, Schiff noted.

To combat the problem, Colt's Manufacturing Co. has developed a "smart gun"
prototype, which it demonstrated at the news conference. The handgun uses a
radio frequency identification system. The handgun's owner carries a tiny
transponder, fitted into a ring or watch-like band. When the owner grips the
firearm, a "reader" inside the gun recognizes the transponder's signal and
releases the firing mechanism.

In action taken Wednesday, the House and Senate approved a $ 12.6 billion
transportation funding bill for the fiscal year that begins Oct. 1. The Senate
approved a Federal Aviation Administration authorization bill.

The transportation bill includes $ 3.5 billion for the Coast Guard, $ 6.8
billion for the FAA and $ 890 million for the Federal Railroad Administration.

highway trust fund.

LOAD-DATE: September 19, 1996

LANGUAGE: English

                  Copyright 1996 St. Louis Post-Dispatch, Inc.


                              62 of 457 DOCUMENTS

                       St. Louis Post-Dispatch (Missouri)

              September 24, 1996, Tuesday, FIVE STAR LIFT Edition

GOP TO DROP PROVISION BARRING SCHOOLING FOR ILLEGAL IMMIGRANTS

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 3A

LENGTH: 297 words

DATELINE: WASHINGTON


In a move that will help the election campaigns of many House Republicans, the
party's congressional leaders have agreed to drop from a stalled immigration
bill a divisive provision that would allow states to bar children of illegal
immigrants from school.

The new plan, which was opposed by GOP presidential nominee Bob Dole, is
expected to be announced today. House and Senate Republicans will strip the
provision from the broader bill and schedule it for a vote as a separate
measure.

In a compromise on that provision, any illegal-immigrant child enrolled in any
grade as of next Jan. 1 would be permitted to stay through high school.

The separate votes may solve a political problem for California Republicans, who
feel they need to stand tough against the high costs of educating illegal
immigrants.

But it is a setback for Dole, who sent his campaign manager to Capitol Hill this
month to argue that a tougher stand could put President Bill Clinton on the
defensive over the failure of a generally popular bill.

Any bill containing the schools provision faced a bipartisan Senate filibuster
led by Democrats and a veto threat from Clinton.

The new plan would seem to be a big political victory for Clinton. But in the
past few days, aides have raised new objections to the bill and suggested he may
not sign it.

Administration officials on Monday withheld the promise of Clinton's support
until Republicans told them about the latest compromise and its details.

Clinton could face political risks if he suddenly balks at signing the overall
bill, which would nearly double the number of Border Patrol officers and
restrict public benefits to legal immigrants. The immigration legislation
without the education measure enjoys broad bipartisan support.

LOAD-DATE: September 24, 1996

LANGUAGE: English

                  Copyright 1996 St. Louis Post-Dispatch, Inc.


                              63 of 457 DOCUMENTS

                       St. Louis Post-Dispatch (Missouri)

             September 25, 1996, Wednesday, FIVE STAR LIFT Edition

GOOD SENSE WINS IN IMMIGRATION BILL

SECTION: EDITORIAL; Pg. 6B

LENGTH: 437 words


Politics lost but good sense won in the decision by Republican leaders in the
House to drop a provision that would have let states lock schoolhouse doors to
the children of illegal immigrants. Even though the punitive proposal had won
the backing of presidential candidate Bob Dole and Speaker Newt Gingrich - and
had drawn a veto threat from President Bill Clinton - it was dropped from
compromise legislation by a House-Senate conference committee hoping to craft a
bill acceptable to the White House. The result is a plan to curb illegal
immigration that remains tough but is not unreasonably harsh on children who
need an education.

In states with a large influx of illegal aliens, some lawmakers had pushed for
the right to keep the children of such families out of school. They said the
cost of educating the students was too high, and they felt that denying them an
education might deter families thinking about crossing the border without
authorization.

Even the veto threat didn't bother these lawmakers; to the contrary, they wanted
to force Mr. Clinton to reject the bill, creating an issue in the closing weeks
of the campaign, particularly in California, where anti-immigrant sentiment is
strong.

That strategy would have been counterproductive, however. Though the education
provision had created the most controversy, the rest of the bill included
measures that both parties favor, such as more border guards to stop illegal
immigrants in the first place. The House passed the ban on schooling while the
Senate did not, so as the deadline approached for Congress to adjourn, one
chamber had to back down for any legislation to have a chance.

That movement came Tuesday, when the amendment was stripped from the overall
immigration bill, with the possibility that it could surface later as separate
legislation altogether. Ideally, though, the idea will be dropped for good.

Families desperate for a better life generally won't stop and weigh the pros and
cons of what government services will be available, so the lack of schooling
would not be enough to stop them. The more likely result, if such unwise
legislation passed, would be groups of immigrant children loose on the street,
denied the learning they need to better themselves and engaged in the mischief
that idle time can breed.

Children aren't the ones who decide whether to break the law and enter a country
illegally; they shouldn't be made to suffer for their parents' actions. Though
Mr. Dole and Mr. Gingrich won't like the decision to drop the school provision
from the bill, doing so was the fairest way to proceed.

LOAD-DATE: September 25, 1996

LANGUAGE: English

TYPE: EDITORIAL

                  Copyright 1996 St. Louis Post-Dispatch, Inc.


                              64 of 457 DOCUMENTS

                       St. Louis Post-Dispatch (Missouri)

              September 26, 1996, Thursday, FIVE STAR LIFT Edition

HOUSE PASSES TOUGH NEW IMMIGRATION MEASURE

BYLINE: Philip Dine Post-Dispatch Washington Bureau

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 10A

LENGTH: 1078 words

DATELINE: WASHINGTON


The House overwhelmingly passed on Wednesday a bill to reduce the number of
illegal immigrants and crack down on legal immigrants already here.

The vote was 305-123.

In the roll call vote, Illinois Democrats Jerry Costello and Glenn Poshard voted
for the bill, and Richard Durbin voted against it. Missouri Republicans Mel
Hancock and James Talent voted for the bill, as did Missouri Democrats Pat
Danner, Karen McCarthy, Ike Skelton and Harold Volkmer. Missouri Democrats
William L. Clay and Richard Gephardt voted against the bill.

An estimated 4 million illegal aliens are in the country, including about 15,000
in the St. Louis area. Illinois ranks among the top half-dozen states for
illegal immigrants, with more than 200,000.

Supporters of the bill, mostly Republicans, said it would stem a spiraling
increase in illegal immigrants, who they said were taking jobs from Americans
and crowding schools and hospitals in parts of the country.

Democratic opponents countered that the bill would not be effective in cutting
illegal immigration because its sanctions against employers who hire them were
weak. The opponents also said the bill would unfairly restrict the access of
legal immigrants to safety-net programs.

Bar Children From Schools

In a second, 254-to-175 vote, the House adopted a bill to let states bar
children of illegal immigrants from public schools. That had originally been
part of the first bill but was removed earlier this week by Republicans hoping
to avoid a promised veto by President Bill Clinton.

In this roll call, Illinoisans Costello and Durbin voted against the bill, and
Poshard voted for it. Missourians Hancock and Talent voted for the bill, as did
Danner, Skelton and Volkmer. Clay, Gephardt and McCarthy voted against it.

A White House spokeswoman said Wednesday that the first bill was improved by
removal of the school provision but that the president would review it before
deciding what to do.

The Senate may take up immigration today or Friday.

Provisions Of Main Bill

Key provisions of the main bill include:

Increasing the number of Border Patrol agents by 1,000 a year for five years,
and building a 14-mile triple-tier fence along the San Diego-Mexican border.

Forging closer cooperation among federal, state and local law enforcement
officers in investigating, catching and detaining illegal aliens, while raising
penalties for those who smuggle them or provide phony documents.

Allowing for faster expulsion of anyone who enters the country without proper
documents, which could affect people who seek asylum in the United States.

Restricting the eligibility of legal immigrants for Supplemental Security Income
(SSI), food programs and health care among other programs, in part by including
the income of the sponsor. Legal immigrants who use federal means-tested
programs for specified lengths of time risk deportation.

Raising the income required by a citizen to sponsor a relative who wishes to
immigrate to the United States.

Rep. Lamar Smith, R-Texas, said the measure would keep out illegal aliens who
had saturated coastal and border states and end "abuse of the welfare system."

But Sen. Paul Simon, D-Ill., said the bill's major impact would be to hurt
immigrants who had played by the rules. "We do have a problem with illegal
immigration, and we ought to deal with that problem. But this is a bill that
bashes legal immigrants, and we ought not do that."

Democrats charged that Republicans, fearing offending GOP supporters, avoided
tough sanctions against employers who hired illegal aliens. Republicans
responded that employers did not willingly hire illegal aliens but were fooled
by fraudulent documents, and that the best approach was a tough presence at the
border.

Drawn To Jobs

Immigrants - legal and illegal - are increasingly drawn to a St. Louis or an
Atlanta by a good job market, hostility in more-saturated areas and the
protective anonymity offered by low public concern over the issue.

St. Louis has about 85,000 immigrants with the figure expected to top 100,000 by
decade's end. As is the case nationwide, about half of the 15, 000 illegal
immigrants in St. Louis crossed the border surreptitiously, while half
overstayed valid visas. Those in St. Louis include 6,000 Mexican s, 600 Indians,
375 Pakistanis, 250 Canadians, 225 Russians and 200 Chinese, Poles and
Palestinians, with slightly smaller numbers of Central Americans.

They are concentrated in South St. Louis, several Metro East communities
including Fairmont City, and west St. Louis County.

Rep. Henry Hyde, R-Ill., said the bill would help St. Louis, Chicago and other
urban areas by reducing the flow of illegal immigrants, thereby easing the
pressure on schools, hospitals and police.

But Simon argued that state and local governments were going to have to pick up
the burden when immigrants ineligible for federal programs or fearing
deportation turned to local agencies.

St. Louis officials huddling in the mayor's office Wednesday to talk about
welfare issues spent much time on the immigration bill.

Won't Help St. Louis

"I don't see how this is going to be a help to the city of St. Louis," she said.
"People will try to find a way to survive. The food pantries are overburdened
now. If people are without, someone has to look around and meet that need. They
will turn to local authorities for help."

But a Republican staff member for the Judiciary Committee said the federal
government had tried to reduce the tax burden on citizens, and the rest was up
to St. Louis and other communities.

"That's a decision every local government will have to make. We've said the
federal government is not paying. If it ends up the local government is paying,
this is a conscious decision. They have no obligation to pay."

Polls show that most Americans want cuts in immigration after three decades of
heavy and continual immigration. That steady stream of newcomers, which resulted
from 1965 changes in policy, marks a shift from the ebbs and flows of past
immigration.

But Steve Legomsky, a law professor at Washington University who has ad vised
several countries on immigration policy, said: "Whether anything in this bill
will actually help to curb immigration is doubtful, because where the difference
in wealth between two countries (Mexico and the United States) is so great and
the border is so long, people are going to find a way to come."

LOAD-DATE: September 26, 1996

LANGUAGE: English

                  Copyright 1996 St. Louis Post-Dispatch, Inc.


                              65 of 457 DOCUMENTS

                       St. Louis Post-Dispatch (Missouri)

                October 1, 1996, Tuesday, FIVE STAR LIFT Edition

MEASURE TO THWART ILLEGAL IMMIGRATION BECOMES LAW, TOO

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 5A

LENGTH: 469 words

DATELINE: WASHINGTON


Legislation that proponents say will enable the government to slow illegal
immigration won President Bill Clinton's signature Monday night.

After marathon negotiations over the weekend, the measure was included in a $
389 billion bill that set budgets for nine Cabinet departments for the new
fiscal year, which begins today.

Clinton said the landmark measure "reinforces the efforts we have made over the
last three years to combat illegal immigration."

"It strengthens the rule of law by cracking down on illegal immigration at the
border, in the workplace and in the criminal justice system - without punishing
those living in the United States legally, or allowing children to be kept out
of schools and sent into the streets," he said.

Shortly before the Senate passed the measure Monday, Sen. Charles Grassley,
R-Iowa., called it "a bill . . . that will help us make a huge impact involving
illegal immigration."

After Clinton demanded changes in a previous version of the measure, Democrats
and Republicans agreed on a plan that would increase penalties for alien
smuggling and for producing the phony documents that many illegal immigrants use
to get U.S. jobs.

The measure also would almost double the size of the Border Patrol by increasing
the number of officers by 1,000 a year for the next five years. Local police and
other law enforcement officers would have new authority to arrest illegal
immigrants, which they cannot do now.

Illegal aliens would face more severe penalties and faster deportation. Welfare
workers would be allowed to check immigrants' legal status before giving them
welfare checks.

"This is the most significant illegal-immigration-control bill in a generation,"
said Rep. Lamar Smith, R-Texas, who introduced the measure. The bill "will
secure America's borders, reduce the flow of illegal drugs, protect American
jobs and save American taxpayers billions of dollars," he said.

Before the changes, some Democrats had complained that the measure did little to
punish businesses that hired illegal immigrants and was too harsh on legal
immigrants.

After almost round-the-clock talks, Republicans agreed to soften a provision
requiring legal U.S. residents to earn up to 200 percent of the poverty level
before they can sponsor foreign relatives into the country as immigrants.
Minimum income levels were set instead at 125 percent of the poverty level, up
from the 100 percent required by current law.

Also dropped was a provision that would have put legal immigrants in danger of
deportation if they received 12 months of public benefits within their first
seven years in this country.

Language that would have barred immigrants from using Medicaid to pay for
treatment of AIDS or HIV infection was struck at the insistence of the White
House.

LOAD-DATE: October 2, 1996

LANGUAGE: English

                  Copyright 1996 St. Louis Post-Dispatch, Inc.


                              66 of 457 DOCUMENTS

                       St. Louis Post-Dispatch (Missouri)

                  October 28, 1996, Monday, THREE STAR Edition

DOLE BANKS ON WINNING CALIFORNIA; CLINTON CONFIDENT, CAMPAIGNS IN
REPUBLICAN-LEANING VIRGINIA

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 1A

LENGTH: 743 words

DATELINE: SAN JOSE, CALIF.


Bob Dole stepped up on Sunday his attacks on illegal immigration and affirmative
action as he tried to cut President Bill Clinton's commanding lead in
California.

The president took to the stump Sunday in Virginia, a state that has not
supported a Democrat for the White House since 1964.

In San Jose, Calif., at a rally of Vietnamese-Americans, Dole said Clinton had
not done enough to police America's borders and repeated his support for a state
ballot initiative to end affirmative action and prefer ences in government
hiring, contracting and school admissions.

Aides said Dole, who has extended his Californian trip by one day, plans major
speeches on immigration and affirmative action today and Tuesday.

Standing before a banner that read "Celebrate Legal Immigration, the American
Dream," Dole said, "There are no limits on what individuals can achieve in this
country when they come here as legal immigrants. Because in America what counts
is merit and character."

But, he added, Clinton's lax border controls have left thousands of Californians
"victims of violent criminals who should have been stopped at the border."

Dole continued, "Quotas, set-asides and other preferences that discriminate by
race or ethnicity are simply wrong in America . . . and do violence to the
principles of our Constitution."

The GOP presidential candidate has decided to focus much of his time and
resources in California in the closing days of the campaign. The state has 54 of
the 270 electoral college votes needed to win the presidency. "We're going to
win the Golden State jackpot on Nov. 5 because we're going to talk about trust
and leadership and ethics and things you can count on in a Dole administration -
that are sorely lacking now," he said.

Perot's Pick

Dole said he was pleased by Ross Perot's comments Sunday, in which the Texas
billionaire - and Reform Party presidential candidate - said Dole would be a
better military commander-in-chief than Clinton.

Perot, on NBC's "Meet the Press," said, "Senator Dole understands combat. He has
certainly paid a terrible price, and, if you were limited to those two, you'd
certainly, I think every American would pick him, because he understands what
he's doing. The other candidate (Clinton) has no experience in military or in
combat."

Dole campaign manager Scott Reed traveled to Dallas last week to try to persuade
Perot to drop his third-party candidacy in the hope that Perot supporters might
move into Dole's column. Perot turned Dole down but has since attacked the
ethics of the Clinton administration.

Dole said Sunday, "I think (Perot is) being very positive in telling the
American people they have a choice, and I'm the better choice."

Clinton In Virginia

Clinton's visit Sunday to Virginia, the start of a three-day, seven-state
campaign swing, illustrated his campaign's growing confidence as it races down
the final stretch to the Nov. 5 election.

Clinton appeared to be playing a campaign endgame:

* On one hand he sought to buttress his commanding position in traditionally
crucial Midwestern states like Illinois and Ohio, which he will visit today and
Tuesday.

* On the other, he wanted to use the campaign's waning days to further
objectives beyond his own re-election - like positioning Vice President Al Gore
for a 2000 run at the White House and helping Democratic candidates for
Congress.

During a quick visit to Springfield, Va., a Washington suburb, Clinton
campaigned with Mark Warner, a businessman seeking to oust three-term Republican
John Warner from the Senate, and with Sen. Charles Robb, D-Va. As he has done
throughout the campaign, Clinton sought to paint himself as the candidate of the
future and, without mentioning him by name, to port ray Dole as a man of the
past.

"Most people in Virginia have been voting against members of my party for
president for over three decades now, and I know how hard it is to break a
habit," Clinton said, prompting laughter. "One of the things we all teach our
kids is that some habits have to be broken.

"I want you to go out from this place and spend the next nine days and tell your
fellow Virginians they did a great thing for America when they and their native
sons led us into the 19th century 200 years ago," he added. "Virginia can help
lead American into the 21st Century nine days from now."

Clinton flew to St. Louis Sunday night and will campaign today in University
City.

LOAD-DATE: October 28, 1996

LANGUAGE: English

GRAPHIC: PHOTO, GRAPHIC; (1) Photo from AP - Bob Dole receives a hug from
Vietnamese-American children on stage during his rally in San Jose, Calif., on
Sunday. (2) Photo from AP - President Bill Clinton shakes hands at a rally
Sunday in Springfield, Va., a Washington suburb. No Democratic presidential
candidate has won Virginia since 1964. (3) Color Graphic Logo - Campaign '96

                  Copyright 1996 St. Louis Post-Dispatch, Inc.


                              67 of 457 DOCUMENTS

                       St. Louis Post-Dispatch (Missouri)

                October 28, 1996, Monday, FIVE STAR LIFT Edition

DOLE BANKS ON WINNING CALIFORNIA; CLINTON CONFIDENT, CAMPAIGNS IN
REPUBLICAN-LEANING VIRGINIA

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 1A

LENGTH: 761 words

DATELINE: SAN JOSE, CALIF.


Bob Dole stepped up on Sunday his attacks on illegal immigration and affirmative
action as he tried to cut President Bill Clinton's commanding lead in
California.

The president took to the stump Sunday in Virginia, a state that has not
supported a Democrat for the White House since 1964.

In San Jose, Calif., at a rally of Vietnamese-Americans, Dole said Clinton had
not done enough to police America's borders and repeated his support for a state
ballot initiative to end affirmative action and prefer ences in government
hiring, contracting and school admissions.

Standing before a banner that read "Celebrate Legal Immigration, the American
Dream," Dole said, "There are no limits on what individuals can achieve in this
country when they come here as legal immigrants. Because in America what counts
is merit and character."

But, he added, Clinton's lax border controls have left thousands of Californians
"victims of violent criminals who should have been stopped at the border."

Dole continued, "Quotas, set-asides and other preferences that discriminate by
race or ethnicity are simply wrong in America . . . and do violence to the
principles of our Constitution."

The GOP presidential candidate also described the White House as an "animal
house," and called Clinton's administration "a group of elistists (elitists) who
have never done anything."

Dole said he was pleased by Ross Perot's comments Sunday, in which the Texas
billionaire - and Reform Party presidential candidate - said Dole would be a
better military commander in chief than Clinton.

Perot, on NBC's "Meet the Press," said, "Senator Dole understands combat. He has
certainly paid a terrible price, and, if you were limited to those two, you'd
certainly, I think every American would pick him, because he understands what
he's doing. The other candidate (Clinton) has no experience in military or in
combat."

Dole's campaign manager, Scott Reed, traveled to Dallas last week to try to
persuade Perot to drop his third-party candidacy in the hope that Perot
supporters might move into Dole's column. Perot turned Dole down but has since
attacked the ethics of Clinton's administration.

Dole said Sunday, "I think (Perot is) being very positive in telling the
American people they have a choice, and I'm the better choice."

Meanwhile, House Republicans implicitly conceding Bob Dole's defeat in the
presidential race, are undertaking a television advertising campaign to argue
that a Republican Congress is needed to deny President Clinton "a blank check."

Clinton In Virginia

Clinton's visit Sunday to Virginia, the start of a three-day, seven-state
campaign swing, illustrated his campaign's growing confidence as it races down
the final stretch to the election Nov. 5.

Clinton appeared to be playing a campaign endgame:

* On one hand he sought to buttress his commanding position in traditionally
crucial Midwestern states like Illinois and Ohio, which he will visit today and
Tuesday.

* On the other, he wanted to use the campaign's waning days to further
objectives beyond his own re-election - like positioning Vice President Al Gore
for a 2000 run at the White House and helping Democratic candidates for
Congress.

During a quick visit to Springfield, Va., a suburb of Washington, Clinton
campaigned with Mark Warner, a businessman seeking to oust three-term Republican
John Warner from the Senate, and with Sen. Charles Robb, D-Va. As he has done
throughout the campaign, Clinton sought to paint himself as the candidate of the
future and, without mentioning him by name, to portray Dole as a man of the
past.

"Most people in Virginia have been voting against members of my party for
president for over three decades now, and I know how hard it is to break a
habit," Clinton said, prompting laughter. "One of the things we all teach our
kids is that some habits have to be broken.

"I want you to go out from this place and spend the next nine days and tell your
fellow Virginians they did a great thing for America when they and their native
sons led us into the 19th century 200 years ago," he added. "Virginia can help
lead American into the 21st century nine days from now."

The president began the day with a ceremony in the Rose Garden where he
announced a $ 30 million spending increase for research into the genetic basis
of breast cancer. He said it was a step "to bring us closer to a cure and to
improve the lives of those who do survive."

Clinton flew to St. Louis Sunday night and will campaign today in University
City.

LOAD-DATE: October 28, 1996

LANGUAGE: English

GRAPHIC: PHOTO, GRAPHIC; (1) Photo from AP - Bob Dole receives a hug from
Vietnamese-American children on stage during his rally in San Jose, Calif., on
Sunday. (2) Color Graphic Logo - Campaign '96

                  Copyright 1996 St. Louis Post-Dispatch, Inc.


                              68 of 457 DOCUMENTS

                       St. Louis Post-Dispatch (Missouri)

               November 18, 1996, Monday, FIVE STAR LIFT Edition

ILLEGAL ALIENS DESERVE BETTER

SECTION: EDITORIAL; Pg. 6B

LENGTH: 290 words


One side effect of the new federal welfare law is likely to be felt next month
when California is expected to begin denying prenatal services to undocumented
immigrants.

Gov. Pete Wilson has insisted on imposing this regulation, even though it could
mean prenatal care will be denied to as many as 70,000 pregnant women in
California each year. California's move wasn't inevitable. The new welfare law
gives states the option of providing non-emergency pregnancy services to illegal
immigrants, provided such services are approved after the new law took effect.

Some cash-poor local governments in California are scrambling to head off the
adverse medical consequences of the governor's irresponsible action. Los Angeles
County, for example, says it will have no choice except to ask taxpayers to pick
up the prenatal care tab of about $ 9 million unless the governor changes his
mind. Let's hope this isn't a trend whereby states will drop social problems in
the laps of cities least able to handle them.

Los Angeles officials appreciate that prenatal care is as necessary as the
governor's action is shortsighted. This care is a cost-effective way to prevent
pregnancy-related illnesses among women and reduce mental and physical
disabilities, as well as mortality, among poor children.

In the long run, then, prenatal care has been a good investment. Mr. Wilson's
decision to withhold it for certain needy women may sound like good politics,
but it's disastrous social policy. Already, lawyers sympathetic to the plight of
such needy women are threatening to challenge his decision in court, and they
should. Basic health care in this country shouldn't be denied to anyone,
particularly those least able to pay for it.

LOAD-DATE: November 18, 1996

LANGUAGE: English

TYPE: EDITORIAL

                  Copyright 1996 St. Louis Post-Dispatch, Inc.


                              69 of 457 DOCUMENTS

                       St. Louis Post-Dispatch (Missouri)

               December 17, 1996, Tuesday, FIVE STAR LIFT Edition

29 ILLEGAL IMMIGRANTS ARE ARRESTED IN AREA

BYLINE: Nicholas C. Wishart Of the Post-Dispatch Staff

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 3B

LENGTH: 242 words


In arrests that took more than a year to pull off, the Immigration and
Naturalization Service in St. Louis apprehended 29 illegal immigrants from India
working at hotels and doughnut shops in the area.

Now, the same INS officials are trying to find who helped smuggle the people
into St. Louis, allegedly by escorting them past checkpoints or selling them
fraudulent identification.

"We believe all of them had help," Chester Moyer, St. Louis INS officer in
charge, said Monday. "We also believe some of them paid very high prices for
this help. We want to know how they got here, how they obtained the documents
and who they were associated with."

During a two-day period earlier this month, INS officials pulled 15 illegal
immigrants from their jobs at three doughnut shops: one on Dorsett Road in
Maryland Heights, one on Olive Boulevard in Creve Coeur and one on Florissant
Road in Dellwood.

In addition, officials apprehended a total of 10 people from two hotels in St.
Louis and one in Centralia, Ill. Officials found four more illegal immigrants at
apartments in Creve Coeur and Maryland Heights.

Moyer said his office had spent more than a year interviewing everyone from
landlords and employers to neighbors and acquaintances.

Some of the illegal immigrants had been working 10 hours a day, seven days a
week. Those cases will be referred to the U.S. Department of Labor to see if the
businesses violated any labor laws.

LOAD-DATE: December 17, 1996

LANGUAGE: English

                  Copyright 1996 St. Louis Post-Dispatch, Inc.


                              70 of 457 DOCUMENTS

                       St. Louis Post-Dispatch (Missouri)

               January 4, 1997, Saturday, FIVE STAR LIFT EDITION

NEWS QUIZ

SECTION: NEWS, Pg. 19

LENGTH: 61 words


Q: How many illegal immigrants are there in the United States? What countries do
most of them come from?

A: The Immigration and Naturalization Service estimates that 4.3 million illegal
immigrants live in the United States. The top five countries, according to INS
spokesman Russ Bergeron, are in this order: Mexico, El Salvador, Guatemala,
Canada and Poland.

LOAD-DATE: January 8, 1997

LANGUAGE: English

                  Copyright 1997 St. Louis Post-Dispatch, Inc.


                              71 of 457 DOCUMENTS

                       St. Louis Post-Dispatch (Missouri)

                February 12, 1997, Wednesday, THREE STAR EDITION

U.S., MEXICO WARN ILLEGAL ALIENS TO STAY AWAY FROM RUGGED AREA

BYLINE: AP

SECTION: NEWS, Pg. 17A

LENGTH: 314 words

DATELINE: CAMPO, CALIF.


Martin Facio can thank the U.S. government for reminding him of the proper way
to dress when sneaking across the border.

Because of a U.S. border crackdown in the balmy San Diego area, illegal aliens
have been trying to cross into the United States by trekking through the cold,
windswept mountains to the east. As a result, at least 14 immigrants have died
of exposure in the past month.

To prevent more deaths, the U.S. and Mexican governments are broadcasting public
service announcements warning illegal immigrants to stay away from the area.

"Well, I'm not saying we should tell them how to get here, but sometimes we find
them wearing trash bags they've found - like that's going to keep them warm and
dry," said Ronny Kastner, a Border Patrol agent in Campo, where an average of
125 immigrants are arrested each night. "This year we found them after it was
too late, or we found people real cold."

Facio, 33, an auto repairman from Mexico City, heard radios crackling in
Tijuana, Mexico, with helpful hints for would-be crossers.

He and his nephews bought long underwear and flannel shirts and stayed in a
Tijuana way station until the weather, which had been around the freezing mark,
broke. As the temperature climbed to the mid-50s, Facio and his nephews set out
on their journey, heading more than 50 miles east of Tijuana.

"I heard the warnings, but I don't care," Facio said from behind bars recently.
"In Mexico, there is no work."

By the time Border Patrol agents caught them and put them in a det ention cell
just after nightfall on the same day they set out, the temperature had dipped to
38 degrees.

In the next 24 hours, 126 other immigrants were detained by agents based at
Campo, an enforcement area that encompasses an Indian reservation, the Cleveland
National Forest and the site of most of the 14 deaths - the Laguna Mountains.


LOAD-DATE: February 13, 1997

LANGUAGE: English

                  Copyright 1997 St. Louis Post-Dispatch, Inc.


                              72 of 457 DOCUMENTS

                       St. Louis Post-Dispatch (Missouri)

                   March 23, 1997, Sunday, THREE STAR EDITION

JAPANESE STUNNED BY SUDDEN RISE IN ILLEGAL IMMIGRATION

BYLINE: 1997,; Los Angeles Times

SECTION: NEWS, Pg. 07A

LENGTH: 705 words

DATELINE: TOKYO



Japan is awash in boat people.

Japanese law enforcement has been stunned by a sudden influx of illegal
immigrants, mainly Chinese, Koreans, Pakistanis and other Asians who arrive in
rickety fishing boats and sneak ashore at night on deserted beaches.

Police blame a new alliance between Chinese "snakeheads" - members of syndicates
that specialize in smuggling illegal immigrants into lucrative labor markets -
and Japanese "yakuza" gangsters.

The snakeheads have been known to charge as much as $ 25,000, payable up front,
to sneak job seekers into Japan, where low unemployment rates and high salaries
have created ideal conditions for low-wage undocumented workers.

Their yakuza partners scout out quiet landing sites and use walkie-talkies to
help guide the boat people ashore, police said. Buses or trucks are waiting to
whisk them off to the cities, where they quickly find jobs in the underground
economy.

Now, police say, the syndicates have come up with a hot new marketing technique:
charge as little as $ 2,000 cash down, and collect the rest from the immigrant's
family once the worker has landed safely in Japan. Clients who get nabbed by
immigration officials don't have to pay - and many more customers can afford to
take the gamble.

Business is booming. So far this year, Japanese officials have arrested at least
692 people who arrived on 28 boats, beating last year's record in less than two
months.

"There are so many of these cases every day, I can't even keep straight what
prefecture they're from," said Yuichi Motoyama, spokesman for the Japan Maritime
Safety Agency. "It's chaos."

The new boat people are believed to pose no national security threat. But they
do serve as an unpleasant reminder of one of Tokyo's worst nightmares: the
prospect that political or economic turmoil in North Koreans might one day
launch thousands of hungry North Koreans in boats headed toward Japan.

Though still small-scale in comparison with the United States' illegal
immigration problem, the number of foreigners living illegally in Japan has
risen in recent years from an estimated 160,000 in 1991 to 285,000 today,
according to Japanese immigration authorities. Most are people who arrived on
tourist or student visas and never left. (Japan also has about 1.3 million legal
foreign residents, about 1 percent of the population.)

Since 1990, it has been a crime for a Japanese employer to hire an illegal
immigrant. Smugglers also face a year in jail. Immigration agents have begun
raiding construction sites, hog and poultry farms and restaurants. While
authorities have doubled the pace of deportations, they still managed to oust
only 4,650 illegal immigrants in 1995.

The vast majority of illegal job seekers arrive by plane - and more are getting
caught at Narita International Airport near Tokyo with stolen or forged travel
documents, said Nobuhiko Futamura, head of security for the national Immigration
Bureau.

But the recent invasion by fishing boat has sparked a major immigration scare.
Law enforcement officials have begun to beg Japanese diplomats to pressure China
and South Korea to crack down on their smugglers of immigrants. To stem the
tide, police patrolling depopulated areas of Japan have enlisted fishermen to
report all foreign-looking ships. Signs on remo te beaches urge citizens to call
police if they spot unfamiliar boats or people.

Police learned of one mass landing thanks only to a vegetable vendor. She was
peddling her greens outside a train station in rural Yamaguchi prefecture, on
the southwestern tip of Honshu, Japan's main island, when two Chinese men
approached her to ask for help in getting to Shinjuku, Tokyo's entertainment
district.

"She understood that they were saying 'Shinjuku, Shinjuku,' but couldn't
understand another word they said," said a police spokesman. "She thought they
were odd, and so she called the police."

The two men were captured and told police that they had come from China's Fujian
province in a fishing boat with about 80 other people.

"When they landed, everyone got into a truck to go to Tokyo, but these two
apparently missed the truck," the spokesman said. Their 80 comrades have not
been found.

LOAD-DATE: March 24, 1997

LANGUAGE: English

                  Copyright 1997 St. Louis Post-Dispatch, Inc.


                              73 of 457 DOCUMENTS

                       St. Louis Post-Dispatch (Missouri)

                  May 14, 1997, Wednesday, THREE STAR EDITION

BRIEFS

BYLINE: Compiled From Post-Dispatch Wire Services

SECTION: NEWS, Pg. 04A, BRIEFS/METRO COLUMN

LENGTH: 1053 words



THE NATION

FEDERAL AVIATION ADMINISTRATION

7 Banned Generators Found On Flight

Seven oxygen generators, banned since their involvement in a ValuJet DC-9 crash
barely a year ago, were found aboard a recent Continental passenger flight, the
Federal Aviation Administration reported Tuesday.

The capped generators were in a cargo shipment of airline parts discovered by
Continental workers 10 days after the April 15 flight to Houston from Los
Angeles. The canisters were not listed as part of the shipment, said FAA
spokesman Eliot Brenner. "We take this very seriously, and we're investigating
it thoroughly," he said.

Continental issued a statement Tuesday saying the disarmed generators were
shipped accidentally by a vendor who failed to disclose they were hazardous.
Chemical oxygen generators were banned as cargo in passenger planes shortly
after ValuJet Flight 592 crashed into the Florida Everglades on May 11 of last
year, killing all 110 people on board. Investigators believe oxygen canisters
started or fueled a fire that caused the crash.

IMMIGRATION

Record Pace For Illegal Alien Deportation

The government is deporting illegal immigrants at a record pace, removing 42,426
in the first six months of fiscal 1997.

The Immigration and Naturalization Service said Tuesday that more than half of
the deported immigrants - 23,290 - had been convicted of aggravated crimes such
as murder, rape or armed robbery.

Removing criminal aliens is a key agency enforcement goal, one that President
Bill Clinton's administration officials have been stressing in recent months
amid heightened concern here and abroad that a tough new immigration law will
result in massive sweeps.

The six-month deportation rate keeps the service on pace to achieve its goal of
removing 93,000 undocumented aliens from the United States this year, up from
nearly 69,000 last year.

FBI Investigator Of Lab Reassures Congress

The chief investigator of the beleaguered FBI crime laboratory sought to assure
Congress Tuesday that the facility is "a good lab" that ultimately "will be made
far better."

Despite his critical findings a month ago, Michael R. Bromwich, the Justice
Department's inspector general, told a House subcommittee that numerous reforms
he suggested should "help the FBI laboratory move into the next century as an
outstanding and world-leading forensic laboratory."

Bromwich rejected suggestions by a defense lawyers' group that the poor
management and shoddy lab practices that he documented have jeopardized
thousands of criminal cases.

BALANCED BUDGET

Some Republicans Vow To Fight Clinton

As White House and congressional bargainers moved toward completing the budget
balancing deal they announced 12 days ago, some Republicans signaled Tuesday
that they will not accept President Bill Clinton's prior ities without a fight.

The two sides were hoping to wrap up details of the agreement so the House
Budget Committee could begin voting on a blueprint as early as today, followed
later by the Senate budget panel. The deal is aimed at eliminating deficits by
2002, a first since 1969, while cutting taxes.

But even before the two sides produced paper describing the fine print of their
accord, House Majority Leader Dick Armey raised questions about the value of
such detailed understandings. Despite the agreement with the White House, said
Armey, R-Texas, the House will vote this year to kill the National Endowment for
the Arts, a perennial target of conservatives. White House negotiators have
repeatedly told Republicans that Clinton considers the arts-funding agency one
of his domestic priorities.

Elsewhere in the nation:

Jury selection began in Phoenix Tuesday in the federal trial of embattled
Arizona Gov. Fife Symington, who faces charges that could end his career and
send him to prison.

Symington, a colorful, 51-year-old Republican, faces 22 felony charges. Federal
prosecutors allege that he committed fraud, extortion and perjury in connection
with real estate deals during the last decade.

THE WORLD

MIDDLE EAST

Israelis, Palestinians Agree To Meeting

Prodded by the United States, Israeli and Palestinian negotiators have agreed to
meet and discuss how to resume peace talks, Palestinian and Israeli officials
said Tuesday.

The meeting is set for Wednesday at the residence of U.S. Ambassador Martin
Indyk, said the officials. Special U.S. Middle East envoy Dennis Ross will
attend the meeting. The other participants have not yet been determined, the
officials said.

The meeting would mark the first contact between negotiators since March, when
Israel broke ground for new Jewish housing in a sector of Jerusalem claimed by
Palestinians, plunging relations into crisis. Palestinian leader Yasser Arafat
and Israeli President Ezer Weizman met last week but failed to restart
negotiations.

BRITAIN

Sinn Fein To Set Up Office In Legislature

The Irish Republican Army's political ally, Sinn Fein, plans to set up an office
at the House of Commons for the first time, raising fears for the security of
British lawmakers the IRA has promised to kill.

Martin McGuinness, one of two Sinn Fein members who won Northern Ireland seats
in the British Parliament this month, said Tuesday he has been told the party
can have a House of Commons office.

McGuinness said he and Sinn Fein leader Gerry Adams won't take the oath of
office but plan to use other facilities open to members of Parliament. These
include 24-hour access to the Commons, the right to bring in guests without
searches, free telephones, postage and the right to apply to join the Commons
gym and shooting practice range.

Elsewhere in the world:

Prime Minister Necmettin Erbakan of Turkey, trying to calm fears in the military
that he is seeking to impose hard-line Islamic rule, pledged Tuesday not to
emulate Iran or Algeria.

"Turkey will not become Algeria or Iran," Erbakan told his party's deputies.
"The Welfare Party is the true guarantor of secularism in Turkey." Turkey's army
views itself as the country's main protector of secularism. In February, senior
officers ordered the Islamic-led government to curb radical Islamic groups and
to restrain efforts to institute Islamic practices.

LOAD-DATE: May 14, 1997

LANGUAGE: English

                  Copyright 1997 St. Louis Post-Dispatch, Inc.


                              74 of 457 DOCUMENTS

                       St. Louis Post-Dispatch (Missouri)

                May 14, 1997, Wednesday, FIVE STAR LIFT EDITION

BRIEFS

BYLINE: Compiled From Post-Dispatch Wire Services

SECTION: NEWS, Pg. 04A, BRIEFS/NATION/WORLD COLUMN

LENGTH: 1032 words



THE NATION

FEDERAL AVIATION ADMINISTRATION

7 Banned Generators Found On Flight

Seven oxygen generators, banned as cargo on passenger planes since a ValuJet
DC-9 crash barely a year ago, were found in the cargo of a recent Continental
Airlines flight, the Federal Aviation Administration said Tuesday.

The capped generators were in a cargo shipment of airline parts discovered by
Continental workers 10 days after the April 15 flight to Houston from Los
Angeles. The canisters were not listed as part of the shipment, said FAA
spokesman Eliot Brenner. "We take this very seriously, and we're investigating
it thoroughly," he said.

Continental issued a statement Tuesday saying the disarmed generators were
shipped accidentally by a vendor who failed to disclose they were hazardous.
Chemical oxygen generators were banned as cargo in passenger planes shortly
after ValuJet Flight 592 crashed into the Florida Everglades on May 11 of last
year, killing all 110 people on board.

IMMIGRATION

Record Pace For Illegal Alien Deportation

The government is deporting illegal immigrants at a record pace, removing 42,426
in the first six months of fiscal 1997.

The Immigration and Naturalization Service said Tuesday that more than half of
the deported immigrants - 23,290 - had been convicted of aggravated crimes such
as murder, rape or armed robbery.

Removing criminal aliens is a key agency enforcement goal, one that President
Bill Clinton's administration officials have been stressing in recent months
amid heightened concern here and abroad that a tough new immigration law will
result in massive sweeps.

FBI Investigator Of Lab Reassures Congress

The chief investigator of the beleaguered FBI crime laboratory sought to assure
Congress Tuesday that the facility is "a good lab" that ultimately "will be made
far better."

Despite his critical findings a month ago, Michael R. Bromwich, the Justice
Department's inspector general, told a House subcommittee that numerous reforms
he suggested should "help the FBI laboratory move into the next century as an
outstanding and world-leading forensic laboratory."

Bromwich rejected suggestions by a defense lawyers' group that the poor
management and shoddy lab practices that he documented have jeopardized
thousands of criminal cases.

BALANCED BUDGET

Some Republicans Vow To Fight Clinton

White House and congressional bargainers on Tuesday moved near completing a
budget-balancing deal they announced 12 days ago. Even so, some Republicans
signaled that they would not accept President Bill Clinton's priorities without
a fight.

Negotiators met privately in a basement office of the Capitol for six hours and
emerged in a jovial mood, saying they had solved many of their differences over
the agreement's details. They cautioned that differences remained, including
some that the president and congressional leaders would have to resolve, but
said the end to the seemingly relentless negotiations seemed to be in sight.

Senate Budget Committee Chairman Pete Domenici, R-N.M., said he believed his
committee would begin writing an outline of the plan on Thursday.

Despite the agreement with the White House, House Majority Leader Dick Armey,
R-Texas, said the House will vote this year to kill the National Endowment for
the Arts, a Clinton priority and a perennial target of conservatives.

Elsewhere in the nation:

A man was executed by injection in Huntsville, Texas, Tuesday for fatally
shooting a Houston-area bait shop owner during a botched robbery 13 years ago.

Anthony Ray Westley, who was put to death for killing Frank Hall, mai ntained
his innocence to the end. Westley, 36, was one of three men who had been
drinking, smoking marijuana and snorting cocaine on April 13, 1984, before they
tried to rob Eileen's Bait and Tackle Shop near Lake Houston. Hall walked in and
was killed in a shootout as was one of the other holdup men.

THE WORLD

MIDDLE EAST

Israelis, Palestinians Agree To Meeting

Prodded by the United States, Israeli and Palestinian negotiators have agreed to
meet and discuss how to resume peace talks, Palestinian and Israeli officials
said Tuesday.

The meeting is set for Wednesday at the residence of U.S. Ambassador Martin
Indyk, said the officials. Special U.S. Middle East envoy Dennis Ross will
attend the meeting. The other participants have not yet been determined, the
officials said.

The meeting would mark the first contact between negotiators since March, when
Israel broke ground for new Jewish housing in a sector of Jerusalem claimed by
Palestinians, plunging relations into crisis. Palestinian leader Yasser Arafat
and Israeli President Ezer Weizman met last week but failed to restart
negotiations.

BRITAIN

Sinn Fein To Set Up Office In Parliament

The Irish Republican Army's political ally, Sinn Fein, plans to set up an office
at the House of Commons for the first time, raising fears for the security of
British lawmakers the IRA has promised to kill.

Martin McGuinness, one of two Sinn Fein members who won Northern Ireland seats
in the British Parliament this month, said Tuesday he has been told the party
can have a House of Commons office.

McGuinness said he and Sinn Fein leader Gerry Adams won't take the oath of
office but plan to use other facilities open to members of Parliament. These
include 24-hour access to the Commons, the right to bring in guests without
searches, free telephones, postage and the right to apply to join the Commons
gym and shooting practice range.

Elsewhere in the world:

Prime Minister Necmettin Erbakan of Turkey, trying to calm fears in the military
that he is seeking to impose hard-line Islamic rule, pledged Tuesday not to
emulate Iran or Algeria.

"Turkey will not become Algeria or Iran," Erbakan told his party's deputies.
"The Welfare Party is the true guarantor of secularism in Turkey." Turkey's army
views itself as the country's main protector of secularism. In February, senior
officers ordered the Islamic-led government to curb radical Islamic groups and
to restrain efforts to institute Islamic practices.

LOAD-DATE: May 14, 1997

LANGUAGE: English

                  Copyright 1997 St. Louis Post-Dispatch, Inc.


                              75 of 457 DOCUMENTS

                       St. Louis Post-Dispatch (Missouri)

                 May 24, 1997, Saturday, FIVE STAR LIFT EDITION

2 CHARGED WITH ACCEPTING BRIBES FOR FAKE PAPERS FOR ILLEGAL ALIENS

BYLINE: Tim Bryant; Of The Post-Dispatch Staff

SECTION: NEWS, Pg. 08

LENGTH: 252 words


A former Social Security Administration clerk and an immigration worker are
accused of taking cash bribes in exchange for records funneled to illegal aliens
from India.

Charged in separate federal indictments are Charlene McCollum, 53, of north St.
Louis County and Percy Calvin, 54, of Jennings. Both were free on their promises
to show up for scheduled court appearances.

In announcing the indictments, authorities said Friday that Calvin had processed
applications for at least 30 phony Social Security cards. U.S. Attorney Edward
L. Dowd Jr. said while no more public employees are suspected of such crimes
here, more arrests were likely.

Calvin, a former employee of the Social Security Administration, got about $ 100
for each phony card application processed, authorities said. An indictment
alleges that a conspirator, unnamed in the indictment, got illegal aliens from
India to claim on applications that they were legal aliens allowed to work in
the United States.

McCollum, who worked for the Immigration and Naturalization Service, allegedly
took a $ 300 bribe last year to provide three blank forms that, when filled out
fraudulently, could allow someone to enter the country illegally.

The indictments of McCollum and Calvin are linked to another federal case filed
in December, when agents arrested four men on charges they harbored illegal
immigrants. Indicted then were two brothers, both named Vinodbhai Patel, a
cousin, Jagdish Patel, and another man, Ghanshyambhai Patel.

LOAD-DATE: May 24, 1997

LANGUAGE: English

                  Copyright 1997 St. Louis Post-Dispatch, Inc.


                              76 of 457 DOCUMENTS

                       St. Louis Post-Dispatch (Missouri)

                 May 27, 1997, Tuesday, FIVE STAR LIFT EDITION

ILLEGAL IMMIGRANTS USE FRAUD TO GET REAL ENTRY PAPERS

BYLINE: 1997,; Orange County Register

SECTION: NEWS, Pg. 05B

LENGTH: 255 words

DATELINE: WASHINGTON


Fifteen thousand illegal immigrants have tried to avoid deportation by faking
marriages, the Immigration and Naturalization Service says.

The scheme, the largest in the service's history, was discovered by an
immigration agent in Vermont who noticed a picture on an application that he'd
seen before. He checked and found the photograph on another application.

At one point, INS officials had laid out 50,000 files on the floor looking for
photo matches. As the scheme was unraveled, agents found that one applicant had
filed petitions for 25 different spouses.

It's cases like these, says William Yates, an INS service-center director, that
illustrate the growing problem of document fraud that ranges from phony
marriages to false immigrant-worker petitions.

"The imposter application will generally have all the correct biographical data
to match the INS record," Yates explained to a congressional subcommittee. "But
the photograph belongs to a different individual."

Until recently, INS officials explained, the biggest document trade was in false
documents.

"You can walk the streets of Los Angeles and for $ 35 buy a green card and a
Social Security card," said Gideon Epstein, chief forensic document analyst at
INS' lab.

But as the INS has developed documents that are more difficult to forge, the new
market is in real documents.

Sometimes, Epstein said, a person with a green card rents it to someone else.
Once that person has crossed the border, he or she returns the card to its
owner.

LOAD-DATE: May 28, 1997

LANGUAGE: English

                  Copyright 1997 St. Louis Post-Dispatch, Inc.


                              77 of 457 DOCUMENTS

                       St. Louis Post-Dispatch (Missouri)

                    June 8, 1997, Sunday, THREE STAR EDITION

FORGED DOCUMENTS COMPLICATE INS' WORK

BYLINE: 1997,; Orange County Register

SECTION: NEWS, Pg. 03C

LENGTH: 132 words

DATELINE: WASHINGTON


Illegal immigrants are turning to document forgers to help them secure work
visas, green cards and other official papers that mean risk-free access to the
United States.

In Southern California, an increasing problem has been the use of nonexistent
companies on applications for work visas, according to the Immigration and
Naturalization Service.

Even though 8,417 fraud cases were processed nationwide last year representing
thousands of illegally obtained documents, a lack of resources has made it
difficult for the agency to go after everyone it should, said Paul Virtue of the
INS.

Typically in such schemes, an illegal immigrant will use a fraudulently obtained
marriage license, birth certificate or other identification document to secure a
legitimate visa or green card.

LOAD-DATE: June 9, 1997

LANGUAGE: English

                  Copyright 1997 St. Louis Post-Dispatch, Inc.


                              78 of 457 DOCUMENTS

                       St. Louis Post-Dispatch (Missouri)

                 June 22, 1997, Sunday, FIVE STAR LIFT EDITION

ILLEGAL IMMIGRANTS AWARDED $ 740,000 IN BEATING

BYLINE: 1997,; Reuters News Service

SECTION: NEWS, Pg. 13A

LENGTH: 223 words

DATELINE: LOS ANGELES


Two illegal immigrants who were beaten by police after a high speed freeway
chase will get $ 740,000 under an agreement between the American Civil Liberties
Union and Riverside County, near Arizona.

Mark Rosenbaum, legal director for the ACLU of Southern California, said Friday
that the settlement would be split equally between Mexicans Enrique Funes Flores
and his girlfriend, Alicia Sotero Vasquez.

Their beating on April 1, 1996, by two Riverside County Sheriff's deputies was
captured on videotape by a TV news crew in a helicopter. The tape was aired
nationally, and it sparked public outrage over police violence.

Rosenbaum said the settlement "delivers an unmistakable message that in this
country we do not enforce our immigration laws by means of hard batons and
racial epithets."

Funes Flores and Sotero Vasquez were among more than a dozen immigrants in a
pickup that was chased at high speed by sheriff's deputies for more than 60
miles from the town of Temecula, Calif., to the Los Angeles suburb of El Monte.

When the chase ended, most of the immigrants, who had apparently been picked up
by the truck after crossing the border into California illegally, tried to flee.
But Funes Flores and Sotero Vasquez stayed with the vehicle and were seen being
clubbed repeatedly with batons by the two deputies.

LOAD-DATE: June 23, 1997

LANGUAGE: English

                  Copyright 1997 St. Louis Post-Dispatch, Inc.


                              79 of 457 DOCUMENTS

                       St. Louis Post-Dispatch (Missouri)

              September 20, 1997, Saturday, FIVE STAR LIFT EDITION

51 ILLEGAL ALIENS FOUND WORKING FOR LOCAL FIRM

BYLINE: Joe Holleman; Of The Post-Dispatch Staff

SECTION: NEWS, Pg. 12

LENGTH: 455 words


* The employees were all natives of Mexico and carried a variety of false
documents, the discovery of which triggered the investigation.

A summer-long investigation ended this week with the arrest of 51 illegal aliens
who had been working for a St. Louis County landscaping company.

The workers, all natives of Mexico, were employed by The Brickman Group, a
landscaping company with offices in Overland and Fenton, said Chester Moyer,
officer in charge of the St. Louis office of the Immigration and Naturalization
Service.

Moyer said this was the largest number of illegal aliens ever taken from one
employer in the St. Louis region. The arrests took place Wednesday morning at
both of the company's facilities. Fifty men and one woman were taken into
custody; their ages ranged from 16 to the 50s.

A few of the workers had been living in the St. Louis area year-round; one
supervisor was a local resident for the past four years. Most of the workers
were from Arizona, Texas and California and came to the area for seasonal work,
Moyer said.

Most of the workers had fraudulent Social Security cards or alien registration
cards, Moyer said. He added that investigators now will try to trace the source
of the fraudulent identification.

"That's how this case began," Moyer said. "Some people who got pulled over by
local police were found to have bogus I.D. cards, and we were hearing about
several such cases. So we got together with the Social Security Administration,
the Department of Labor and the St. Louis County Police and figured out what we
had.

"In fact, we had more than we expected. We thought we'd be picking up about 35
or 40," he said.

No charges have been filed against the landscaping company.

Moyer said that it is a crime to knowingly employ a person that the company
knows to be an illegal alien; or to not make a reasonable effort to determine if
an employee's documentation is authentic.

"Their people were very cooperative with us and helped identify people we were
looking for," he said.

Bob Taylor, Brickman regional manager, said Friday his company will continue to
cooperate with federal authorities in the investigation.

The company, which still has landscaping crews working and is open for business,
said it keeps all records required by federal law to establish an employee's
eligibility to work and, to the best of its knowledge, has complied with all
federal laws pertaining to hiring practices.

Moyer said 48 of the workers have been taken to an INS processing center in
Texas to await probable deportation to Mexico. Three others still are in custody
in St. Louis: One has not yet been identified, and two may have local criminal
charges pending against them.

LOAD-DATE: September 21, 1997

LANGUAGE: English

                  Copyright 1997 St. Louis Post-Dispatch, Inc.


                              80 of 457 DOCUMENTS

                       St. Louis Post-Dispatch (Missouri)

                September 23, 1997, Tuesday, THREE STAR EDITION

DEADLINE LOOMS FOR ILLEGAL IMMIGRANTS

BYLINE: AP

SECTION: NEWS, Pg. 06A

LENGTH: 419 words

DATELINE: WASHINGTON


Immigrants living in the United States unlawfully will have to leave the country
to apply for resident "green cards" unless Congress extends a provision that
expires next week.

Currently, undocumented immigrants who are eligible to apply for legal residence
are allowed to remain in the United States while completing their paperwork -
provided they pay a $ 1,000 fine.

The impending expiration of that provision has caused alarm among immigrants.
The Immigration and Naturalization Service is expecting a wave of applications
from people rushing to beat the clock.

"The message is to get that application in before Sept. 30," Paul Virtue, the
agency's acting executive associate commissioner, said Monday.

In 1994, Congress wrote a regulation allowing undocumented immigrants to remain
in the country while applying for permanent residence, provided that they pay a
fine and either be already on track for legal residence or related to a U.S.
citizen or legal permanent resident.

The idea for the proposal was twofold: to reduce the hardship on foreigners
eligible to legalize their status and to lessen the pressure on U.S. consulates
overseas where immigrants had previously applied.

In 1995 and 1996, about 345,000 people took advantage of the rule, which quickly
provided a new revenue stream for the immigration agency. This year, the agency
will take in almost $ 200 million in fines.

President Bill Clinton's administration has asked that this provision be
extended, but Congress has yet to decide on the issue.

The Senate, in the bill that funds the agency's operations, approved an
extension. The House, due to take up its bill later this week, does not have
such a provision - meaning that House and Senate negotiators will have to
resolve the issue later this fall when they iron out differences in their bills.

In the meantime, immigrants are flooding immigration lawyers, advocacy groups
and the airwaves with calls: Should they remain in the country illegally or
leave their jobs and families behind in the hope of securing a green card?

"There is an awful lot of concern," said Judy Golub of the American Immigration
Lawyers Association. "We are getting calls here from people who want us to tell
them what to do, and we simply can't. Too many things are too uncertain."

Under the new immigration law, illegal immigrants apprehended after Saturday
face three-year or 10-year bans on returning to the United States, depending on
how long they had been in the country.

LOAD-DATE: September 24, 1997

LANGUAGE: English

                  Copyright 1997 St. Louis Post-Dispatch, Inc.


                              81 of 457 DOCUMENTS

                       St. Louis Post-Dispatch (Missouri)

                October 10, 1997, Friday, FIVE STAR LIFT EDITION

CHARGES FILED AGAINST 21 IMMIGRANTS;
THEY WERE ARRESTED IN RESTAURANT RAIDS

BYLINE: Deborah Peterson; Of The Post-Dispatch Staff

SECTION: NEWS, Pg. 03C

LENGTH: 338 words


Twenty-one suspected illegal immigrants were charged in U.S. District Court in
East St. Louis on Thursday with crimes ranging from possession of phony
identification to eluding examination when they crossed the border from Mexico.

Nine of the charges were felonies, with penalties of up to 10 years in prison,
fines of up to $ 250,000 or both. Twelve of the charges were misdemeanors.

The charges stemmed from a raid of Cancun restaurants in Swansea, Collinsville
and at Northwest Plaza in St. Louis County. Fourteen people were arrested in
Collinsville, 11 in Swansea and 11 in St. Ann. Those charged Thursday were among
the group arrested in Illinois.

One of the defense attorneys, John D. Stobbs II, said the arrests are aimed at
getting to the management of the restaurants.

"The Cancun people apparently send people down to Mexico, and they fish these
people out," he said.

The chain began in Chattanooga, Tenn., in 1988 and had 26 locations throughout
the United States by 1996. A spokesman at the chain's headquarters said the
three restaurants in Missouri and Illinois were locally owned. He denied they
were a part of the chain.

Ishmael Cruz, manager of the Cancun Restaurant in Collinsville, said no one with
the company participated in hiring illegal immigrants.

"I have been in this country 20 years, and I respect this country," Cruz said.
"There is no such thing as illegal aliens in our business. There is no such
thing as smuggling. We do a decent business."

Chester Moyer, head of the St. Louis office of the Immigration and
Naturalization Service, acknowledged that the investigation was continuing and
said the Immigration Service was looking at the restaurant management, among
other things.

The defendants did not enter pleas Thursday. U.S. District Judge Clifford Proud
denied them bail, explaining they could not be released even if they posted bond
because they would be arrested by the Immigration Service, which still has
administrative charges pending against them.

LOAD-DATE: October 11, 1997

LANGUAGE: English

                  Copyright 1997 St. Louis Post-Dispatch, Inc.


                              82 of 457 DOCUMENTS

                       St. Louis Post-Dispatch (Missouri)

                  October 12, 1997, Sunday, THREE STAR EDITION

BORDER PATROLS KEEPING MANY ALIENS IN U.S.

BYLINE: Patrick J. McDonnell; 1997, Los Angeles Times

SECTION: NEWS ANALYSIS, Pg. 07B

LENGTH: 458 words

DATELINE: LOS ANGELES


Stepped-up enforcement along the border has had the unintended effect of
discouraging many illegal immigrants from ever returning home, says a new study.

"People are still getting in through the border, and, because it's tougher to
get back in once they leave, they're staying longer," said Philip L. Martin, an
economist at the University of California at Davis, who is co-author of the new
study published by the Urban Institute, a Washington-based think tank.

This seeming paradox - that heightened enforcement may wind up swelling the
ranks of illegal immigrants - has been the subject of speculation for some time.

In the last decade, the government has more than doubled its Border Patrol
forces and committed an unprecedented amount of enforcement funds and hardware
from the Gulf of Mexico to the Pacific Ocean.

The pressure, said Douglas S. Massey, a sociologist at the University of
Pennsylvania, has served to increase the prices charged by smugglers and push
the undocumented traffic away from well-policed hubs such as San Diego and into
the expansive deserts and mountains to the east, where agents' ranks are still
stretched thin.

U.S. officials strongly defend the border buildup as an essential means to deter
even more illegal immigrants from crossing or attempting to enter. But
authorities did not dispute the likelihood that the building pressure has served
to turn temporary illegal immigrants into permanent settlers.

'A Predictable Response'

"It's a predictable response," said Eric Andrus, a spokesman for the Immigration
and Naturalization Service. "This is another sign that our efforts to control
the border are working."

Nonetheless, Doris Meissner, who heads the Immigration and Naturalization
Service, and other officials have long acknowledged that a border strategy
lacking a corresponding effort against the employers who hire undocumented
workers is not likely to succeed.

Heightened workplace crackdowns, extremely unpopular among business groups, do
not enjoy the broad congressional support of bolstered enforcement along the
border. Employers have faced civil and criminal penalties for hiring illegal
workers since 1986, but numerous studies have shown that loopholes allow the
practice to continue largely unchecked.

The new study found that the undocumented percentage of the California farm work
force has jumped from less than 10 percent in 1990 - following the amnesty
program of the late 1980s - to 40 percent today and is still climbing.

Today's enforcement push appears inadequate to blunt a movement driven by
Mexico's sagging economic fortunes, the study found, even though authorities may
have succeeded in making the cross-border trip more difficult and costly.

LOAD-DATE: October 13, 1997

LANGUAGE: English

                  Copyright 1997 St. Louis Post-Dispatch, Inc.


                              83 of 457 DOCUMENTS

                       St. Louis Post-Dispatch (Missouri)

              October 15, 1997, Wednesday, FIVE STAR LIFT EDITION

CATHOLIC GROUP HERE IS URGING SYMPATHY FOR ILLEGAL IMMIGRANTS;
HISPANIC MINISTRY WANTS AN END TO ARRESTS

BYLINE: Victor Volland; Of The Post-Dispatch Staff

SECTION: NEWS, Pg. 03B

LENGTH: 413 words


A government crackdown on illegal immigration from Mexico ignores the root
causes of the problem and will only make it worse, spokesmen for the St. Louis
Archdiocese's Hispanic Pastoral Ministry and Human Rights Office said Tuesday.

Sister Alicia Alvarado, coordinator of the Hispanic Ministry, said the groups
were responding to recent mass raids by the Immigration and Naturalization
Service and local police that netted 87 undocumented Mexicans living and working
here. The men, women and several teen-agers are being held on misdemeanor and
felony charges and face deportation.

The church groups called for more humane tolerance and less official zeal on the
part of government and police agencies in dealing with poor immigrants, who they
said only want to better themselves and their families.

The Rev. John Bolderson, pastor of the city's St. Francis de Sales Church -
which has about 2,000 Hispanic members - suggested that Attorney General Janet
Reno start with a moratorium on arresting foreign parents of children born here.
Such children are automatically U.S. citizens, and the parents are forced to
decide whether to leave the children behind or take them back to Mexico and the
old life of poverty and hopelessness, he said.

Alvarado said many of the immigrants are escaping border towns where the
prevailing take-home wage is $ 3.20 a day at industries now mostly owned by U.S.
firms under the recent North American Free Trade Agreement. "The government is
blaming the victim for conditions it has created," she said.

Chester Moyer, who heads the Immigration Service's St. Louis office, defended
the arrests.

"You can find experts who can convincingly argue either side of this issue: the
humanitarian argument and the conspiracy theory," he said. "All I know is what
the law says, and I have no choice but to enforce it."

St. Louis County Police Chief Ronald Battelle, whose department assisted in one
of the mass arrests, said enforcement of the law was paramount. "We can't allow
moral issues to guide decisions in enforcing the law," he said.

Anna Crosslin, director of the International Institute, estimated the Mexican
population here at 25,000.

"I'm concerned now that people might assume if they see a group of Hispanics
working together somewhere that they must be illegal immigrants," she said. "We
do 1,000 job references a year here for legal immigrants, and I wouldn't want to
see everyone with an accent being questioned."

LOAD-DATE: October 16, 1997

LANGUAGE: English

                  Copyright 1997 St. Louis Post-Dispatch, Inc.


                              84 of 457 DOCUMENTS

                       St. Louis Post-Dispatch (Missouri)

                 October 23, 1997, Thursday, THREE STAR EDITION

BILL LETTING ILLEGAL IMMIGRANTS REMAIN, PAY FINE IS BACKED

BYLINE: AP

SECTION: NEWS, Pg. 1A

LENGTH: 278 words

DATELINE: WASHINGTON


The House agreed Wednesday to extend for two weeks a law that allows some
illegal immigrants to remain in the United States by paying a $ 1,000 fine while
they apply for legal residence.

The short-term reprieve was included in a stopgap spending bill that funds
government operations through Nov. 7, giving Congress more time to complete its
appropriations process.

That stopgap bill, which passed by voice vote, must be considered by the Senate
by today, when an earlier bill expires. The legislation is needed because only
five of the 13 spending bills for the fiscal year that began Oct. 1 have been
enacted.

Congress enacted the provision allowing some illegal immigrants to remain in the
United States as part of a larger immigration law in 1994. The provision was set
to expire on Sept. 30.

It was revived, at least temporarily, last month under heavy lobbying from
immigrant and business groups.

Opponents, led by Rep. Dana Rohrabacher, R-Calif., contend the statute
encourages illegal immigration and rewards people who broke the law by
overstaying their visas or entering the country illegally.

Supporters say the measure benefits only those already in position to secure
their green card, simply allowing them to complete their paperwork here rather
than at an overseas U.S. consulate.

The statute is targeted at undocumented immigrants eligible for legal residence,
either because they're already in line for visas or are the spouse or minor
child of a U.S. citizen. Parents of adult children who are U.S. citizens also
can apply.

The Senate has approved a permanent extension. The White House supports making
the provision permanent.

LOAD-DATE: October 23, 1997

LANGUAGE: English

                  Copyright 1997 St. Louis Post-Dispatch, Inc.


                              85 of 457 DOCUMENTS

                       St. Louis Post-Dispatch (Missouri)

                October 24, 1997, Friday, FIVE STAR LIFT EDITION

ILLEGAL ALIENS CAUGHT IN SQUEEZE;
ONE MEXICAN'S DILEMMA: FEAR HERE, POVERTY THERE

BYLINE: Victor Volland; Of The Post-Dispatch Staff

SECTION: NEWS, Pg. 01C

LENGTH: 1060 words



Juan Morales has gone into hiding.

He was picked up in August by St. Louis police and federal immigration agents.
The agents were searching for narcotics at a home and arrested Morales, who
happened to be driving to work at a fast-food restaurant. Th ey didn't find any
drugs, but they did find his forged entry papers. A federal magistrate gave him
60 days to leave the country.

Now the 23-year-old restaurant worker is facing one of the toughest decisions of
his life: Should he and his wife leave their 2-year-old daughter with relatives;
she is a citizen because she was born here. Or should he and the mother - also
an illegal alien - return to Mexico and the life of grinding poverty that the
father escaped from as a teen seven years ago.

"I'm really scared now," said Morales, which is not his real name.

The deadline for returning to Mexico passed last week. Now he is living with his
family underground here, trying to decide what to do. Recent mass raids by the
Immigration and Naturalization Service and local police have intensified his
fear.

"That's a terrible choice no one should be forced to make," said the Rev. John
Bolderson, pastor of St. Francis de Sales Catholic Church at 2653 Ohio Avenue at
Gravois Avenue.

Bolderson, a former Marine who fought in Vietnam, now fights for members of his
parish, which has about 2,000 Spanish-speaking members. He estimates that 100
couples in the parish are like Morales and his wife, with one or both spouses
living here illegally and facing the same choice about children born here.

There is a third choice: "Sometimes," Morales said, "I dream of taking my
daughter back to our hometown, where my wife and I were married and both our
families still live."

But there is no work there.

"One day you may have a job bringing in the corn crop, and you might make enough
to buy a pair of shoes," he said. "The next day, nothing. One cannot live and
better himself without steady work."

Since he left at 16 to follow two older brothers to California, the village has
got electricity, allowing his parents to use a TV and VCR he bought them. But
like most families there, they live in an adobe house with plank floor and no
running water. There are no shopping malls or movie theaters because few people
have any money, he said.

Here he has work - plenty of it. He works as a cook up to 12 hours a day, six
days a week, at less than minimum-wage and no overtime or benefits. Still, he
says, "Things are much better.

"Here you eat better, you dress better, my child has shoes - all because I have
a steady job. It's that simple. It's why we come here."

Morales spoke through an interpreter at his three-room flat, bare of furnishings
except for a secondhand couch, box spring and mattress on the floor of a
doorless front bedroom, masked by a colored bedsheet, and a small, used
refrigerator, table and hot-plate in the tiny kitchen.

His sloe-eyed daughter gamboled, mostly ignoring the blaring TV, the family's
sole luxury even though they all speak and understand little English.

Living Cautiously

Morales said he was living more cautiously.

"I just go to work and come right home now," he said. He and his wife stay away
from dances, parties and bars where they used to meet friends.

His only plan is to keep working, save up a nest egg to take back to Mexico if
he is caught again and hope the immigration laws will be relaxed to allow him to
gain a legal visa.

Until the recent raids, life had been quiet and stress-free, said Morales, who
came here three years ago from Chicago, where there is a much larger Mexican
population and more government monitoring. He said this may happen here as more
Mexicans arrive.

Two raids this fall netted nearly 100 illegal Mexican workers at three area
Mexican fast-food restaurants and a St. Louis County landscaping firm.

The American wife of a Mexican restaurant worker picked up in one of the INS
raids this month told of going back to Mexico and trying to make a life there.

"It was hard there," she said. "We didn't have a refrigerator, and we had only a
little hot plate to cook on. My husband made only the equivalent of $ 3 an hour
and was considered highly paid. We came back because he wanted a better life for
me."

The American girlfriend of another Mexican arrested in the raid has a
10-month-old baby. She said she couldn't imagine what she would do if he was
deported.

"Your whole life is destroyed because he's going back and I'm staying here," she
said. "My way of life as I know it is destroyed."

Father Bolderson told of three other American women engaged to workers arrested
in the raids and asking him to marry them quickly. He told them a wedding
license wouldn't save them from deportation.

Under present law, such unlawful immigrants could reapply for entry after three
years. After April 1, the wait will be 10 years if the applicant had resided
unlawfully in the United States for more than a year. The law also permits adult
naturalized children of illegal parents to apply to bring them here.

Bolderson believes the INS raids - which also took place in recent months at
meatpacking plants in Illinois and Iowa - are a tactic to frighten illegal
workers into returning to Mexico and keep others away.

"I don't think they're really after little fish like Juan who work hard, keep
their noses clean and pay their taxes," he said. "But once these are caught in
the net, they feel they have no choice but to deport them, even if it hurts and
splits up families."

Chester Moyer, director of the Immigration Service's St. Louis office, agreed in
part.

"We're after groups being illegally smuggled in by employers looking for cheap
labor rather than the occasional individual on his own. But if he happens to get
arrested, we have to enforce the law and deport him," he said.

"This country has the world's most generous immigration policy. In the past year
we naturalized over 1,400 legal immigrants here in St. Louis," Moyer said.

Bolderson said the raids have short-lived effectiveness and cause great hardship
on the poor and vulnerable.

"The Immigration Service and police don't have the manpower to round up the
estimated 5 million illegal immigrants in this country. And the hungry and
desperate aren't going to be frightened away," he said.

LOAD-DATE: October 24, 1997

LANGUAGE: English

GRAPHIC: PHOTO, Color Photo by Laurie Skrivan/Post-Dispatch - The Rev. John
Bolderson of St. Francis de Sales parish in St. Louis holds an American-born
child of illegal immigrants. If her father is deported, the father must decide
whether to take her to Mexico for a life of poverty.

                  Copyright 1997 St. Louis Post-Dispatch, Inc.


                              86 of 457 DOCUMENTS

                       St. Louis Post-Dispatch (Missouri)

                 November 16, 1997, Sunday, THREE STAR EDITION

DEATH CATCHES UP WITH MANY ILLEGAL IMMIGRANTS BEFORE THE LAW CAN;
EXTREME TEMPERATURES, FATIGUE TAKE A TOLL

BYLINE: The Associated Press

SECTION: METRO, Pg. C12

LENGTH: 520 words

DATELINE: DALLAS


Every year, an average of nearly 300 illegal immigrants trying to cross the
Mexico-United States border die in the attempt.

They drown fording rivers; they get hit by cars and trains. In the winter, they
freeze to death in the mountains. In the summer, they drop from thirst in the
sand dunes of south Texas.

From 1993 through 1996, at least 1,185 undocumented migrants died crossing the
border.

Several years ago, Tobin Armstrong, a rancher in south Texas, came upon a
22-year-old woman slumped under a shade tree. She was dead.

"I think this was a desperate woman trying to get somewhere to change her life,
and she ran out of gas," said Armstrong. "It's an appalling situation. It's
gotten progressively worse because the word's gotten back that they can make it,
and once they make it, it's home free."

So far this year, 10 bodies of illegal immigrants have been found in Kenedy
County, including yet another on Armstrong's ranch. Last year, 19 were
discovered.

Guided by smugglers, groups of up to 50 who have already crossed the border at
Brownsville 60 miles south are dropped off at Armstrong's fence, just a few
miles south of a U.S. Border Patrol highway checkpoint. They hike through the
brush, often wearing three layers of clothing and carrying bags of groceries.
Trekking north toward Corpus Christi or Houston, some walk the entire length of
Kenedy County - 57 miles - before catching a ride. In the summer, temperatures
can rise to 108 degrees.

"They tear down your fences, they leave your gates open, they break the pipes to
get the water to drink it," Armstrong said. "They break into any house that's
unprotected or unguarded. They'll tear the wall down to get in. They will trash
out any assets you have in the pasture.

"They don't do this just because they want to be disruptive, but because they're
hungry and are looking for food or water or shelter."

After years of using his ranch as a thoroughfare, immigrants have carved paths
as wide as sidewalks through his thick brush and pastures.

His ranch hands have been threatened at gunpoint by immigrants.

"Unless you're properly armed, you just stay away from them," he said. "There's
no way of knowing where these people came from, what their criminal background
is, what their health situation is. These people are desperate enough to die in
substantial numbers out here."

Smugglers - called "coyotes" - often leave the weak behind so they can collect
their fees when they deliver the rest to their destinations.

Every time a body is found, it costs the county up to $ 3,000, including an
autopsy and burial for those who can't be identified. At the cemetery in Sarita,
the county seat, some 25 headstones bear no names.

According to the University of Houston study, from 1993 through 1996, the
Texas-Mexico border was the deadliest link, with 844 immigrants dying.
Ninety-two percent drowned in the Rio Grande. San Diego was the deadliest county
along the border; 193 people died, most in traffic accidents and drownings in
the Tijuana River. In Arizona, 69 died, and in New Mexico, 11 were found dead.

LOAD-DATE: November 16, 1997

LANGUAGE: English

                  Copyright 1997 St. Louis Post-Dispatch, Inc.


                              87 of 457 DOCUMENTS

                       St. Louis Post-Dispatch (Missouri)

               December 26, 1997, Friday, FIVE STAR LIFT EDITION

GAO IN DARK OVER WHETHER BORDER PATROL IS WORKING

BYLINE: The Associated Press

SECTION: METRO, Pg. D10

LENGTH: 246 words

DATELINE: WASHINGTON


The government has spent billions of dollars cracking down on illegal
immigration along the 2,000-mile Southwest border, yet it has no way of knowing
whether its strategy is working, congressional investigators say.

The General Accounting Office has concluded that the Immigration and
Naturalization Service and its parent, the Justice Department, lack formal
methods to evaluate whether the government is meeting the ambitious enforcement
goals set by Attorney General Janet Reno in 1994.

"We believe that the substantial investment of billions of dollars being made in
the attorney general's strategy warrants a cost-effective, comprehensive
evaluation to demonstrate whether benefits commensurate to the investment have
been realized," the accounting office concluded.

Since 1994, the government has spent $ 2.3 billion on border enforcement. It has
added 2,850 Border Patrol agents and 800 immigration inspectors, built more than
50 miles of new fencing, and bought high-tech surveillance equipment.

Last year, the Border Patrol made 1.6 million apprehensions, of which 1.5
million took place at the Southwest border. Yet the nation's illegal immigrant
population, estimated at more than 5 million, continues to grow by 275,000 a
year.

Government statistics "do not indicate whether the increased difficulty of entry
has deterred the flow of illegal entries into the country, the ultimate goal of
the attorney general's strategy," the GAO report said.

LOAD-DATE: December 26, 1997

LANGUAGE: English

                  Copyright 1997 St. Louis Post-Dispatch, Inc.


                              88 of 457 DOCUMENTS

                       St. Louis Post-Dispatch (Missouri)

                January 6, 1997, Monday, FIVE STAR LIFT EDITION

SOLDIERS BEING USED TO POLICE NATION

BYLINE: George C. Kiser

SECTION: EDITORIAL, Pg. 07B, COMMENTARY COLUMN

LENGTH: 623 words


President Ronald Reagan, declaring the flow of drugs and illegal aliens across
the Mexican border a threat to national security, brought military law
enforcement to the United States. Although that precedent clearly violates
democratic principles and American tradition, it has been continued, even
escalated, under George Bush and Bill Clinton - and, incredibly, all without
national debate or serious congressional deliberation.

Federal law still bans military searches and seizures within the United States.
But as noted by Timothy Dunn, in his just-published "Militarization of the
U.S.-Mexico Border," the military role in domestic law enforcement is now so
broad and deep it might as well be searching and seizing.

The military trains and advises drug and immigration officers. It furnishes
helicopters and an array of such detection equipment as night goggles and
infrared radar. It conducts reconnaissance flights in the Southwest and passes
the information along to drug and immigration authorities. Military troops
patrol the border area, alerting law-enforcement officers to suspected persons
and activities.

Military involvement has now spread far from the border. Thousands of soldiers
were sent to the Los Angeles riots of 1992. There was an Army presence at Ruby
Ridge, Idaho, and military officers testified that the Justice Department
repeatedly sought their advice on solving the stand-off at Waco. Last summer,
the government sent thousands of soldiers to secure the Olympics in Atlanta
against terrorists.

And the expansion continues unabated. Congress has authorized the military to
extend training to state and local police. The Washington Post reported recently
that "Army intelligence officers watch for criminal activity from investigative
centers in Miami, New York, Los Angeles, Houston, and Greenbelt, Md." And the
director of the FBI has called for still more military involvement in law
enforcement.

For a nation increasingly agitated with crime and illegal immigration, the
response may well be "It's about time."

But military involvement hasn't noticeably reduced those problems and, more
important, it is undermining our freedom and indeed even the national security
it is supposed to protect. To cite only a few of the dangers:

First, as military officials themselves have argued, the domestic
law-enforcement role weakens the military by diverting it from its most
essential function: protecting the nation from its enemies abroad.

Second, soldiers and police are indoctrinated with radically different values.
Soldiers on foreign battlefields are expected to subdue the nation's enemies by
any and all means necessary, but police on the domestic "battlefield" are
supposed to obey a document called the U.S. Constitution. Surely it is naive to
believe that police working closely with, and trained by, soldiers will be
unaffected by military values.

Third, militarized law enforcement has a disproportionate impact on
Mexican-Americans, because both are concentrated in the border area.

A fourth danger is the secrecy of the military, especially on "national
security" matters. Congress found it very difficult to pry information from
either the military or the administration about military involvement in Waco. If
law-enforcement officers are to be respected, they cannot respond to legitimate
public inquiry as if they were "secret police."

Why are we continuing down this road so alien to American tradition and so often
preferred by dictatorships? How will it ultimately affect our form of
government, and what price are we paying? Why aren't the police capable of
enforcing laws within the United States? These are the questions that need to be
answered in 1997.

LOAD-DATE: January 8, 1997

LANGUAGE: English

                  Copyright 1997 St. Louis Post-Dispatch, Inc.


                              89 of 457 DOCUMENTS

                       St. Louis Post-Dispatch (Missouri)

             March 10, 2000 Friday Edition: Five Star Lift Edition

Stahl, John Wm.

SECTION: CLASSIFIED ADVERTISING

LENGTH: 334 words


STAHL, JOHN WM.,44, of Oakview, Missouri, died on March 6, 2000, at North Kansas
City Hospital, North Kansas City, Missouri.

Funeral service will be Saturday, March 11, 2000, 11:00 a.m., D.W. NEWCOMER'S
WHITE Chapel Funeral Home. Burial D.W. Newcomer's Crematory, Kansas City,
Missouri. Friends may call Friday, March 10, 2000 at 6-8 p.m.; with masonic
service at 7:30, at D.W. NEWCOMER'S WHITE Chapel, Gladstone, Missouri.
Arrangements by D.W. Newcomer's Sons White Chapel, 6600 N. Antioch Rd.,
Gladstone, Missouri 64119.

It was John's wish that his daughters go to college. Therefore, in lieu of
flowers, Mary Stahl requests that donations be made for a college fund for
Jessica and Megan. Donations should be made out to Mary Stahl and forwarded t
the following address: Mike Heston, District Director, US Immigration and
Naturalization Service, 9747 N. Conant Avenue, Kansas City, MO 64153.

John was born April 18, 1955, in Poplar Bluff, MO; John was an Army veteran of
eight years and former police officer; he entered the US Immigration and
Naturalizatin Service in 1982 as a Detention Enforcement Officer at St. Louis,
MO; from 1985 until 1993, John was Special Agent within the Kansas City District
and in 1993 was promoted to his current position as Supervisory Special Agent;
he was a dedicated immigration officer and well known throughout the law
enforcement community in Missouri and Kansas; he worked closely with the FBI,
Social Security Administration, Kansas City, MO and Kansas City, KS Police
Departments, Missouri and Kansas Highway Patrols and various other local, state
and federal law enforcement agencies.

John is survived by his wife of almost 25 years, Mary Stahl and two daughters,
Jessica and Megan, all of the home; his mother, Lillian Charlene Stahl and two
brothers, Bruce Stahl and Paul Stahl, all three of St. Louis, MO and four
sisters, Francis Mistler, Montreal, MO, Julia Cunningham, Covington, KY, Kathy
Stahl and Rebecca Stahl, both of Villa Ridge, MO.

LOAD-DATE: February 14, 2003

LANGUAGE: English

                  Copyright 2000 St. Louis Post-Dispatch, Inc.


                              90 of 457 DOCUMENTS

                       St. Louis Post-Dispatch (Missouri)

                   July 6, 2000, Thursday, THREE STAR EDITION

BUSH VOWS HE WOULD SPEED APPLICATIONS FOR U.S. RESIDENCY;
IMMIGRANTS SHOULD NOT BE GREETED BY A HOSTILE BUREAUCRACY, HE SAYS

BYLINE: From News Services

SECTION: NEWS, Pg. A3

LENGTH: 359 words

DATELINE: SAN DIEGOREPUBLICAN; PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATE; IMMIGRATION; REGULATIONS


Republican presidential candidate George W. Bush called Wednesday for all
permanent residency applications to be handled within six months, instead of the
current three to five years.

The Immigration and Naturalization Service announced late last year that the
average time to process a residency application had been cut to 12 months from
two years.

Bush said he wanted immigrants to be welcomed with open arms rather than by what
he said was a hostile Immigrant and Naturalization Service bureaucracy. He spoke
at a conference of the National Council of La Raza, which seeks to boost
economic opportunity for Hispanics.

"We will bring to the INS a new standard of service and culture of respect,"
Bush said.

If elected president, Bush said he would push for $ 500 million in new spending
to cut the average time needed to process a citizenship application.

"Every INS immigration application should be fully processed within six months
of submission," he said. "No immigrant should have to wait more than six months
for the INS to make a decision on his or her application. Legal immigrants are
the future and the changing face of America, and we should welcome them and
treat them with respect."

The new spending is the latest part of a proposed INS overhaul that Bush's
campaign believes will resonate with Latino voters.

"We've got an INS that is too bureaucratic, too stuck in the past," Bush said.

Last week, Bush announced at a League of United Latin American Citizens
conference in Washington that he wanted to split the INS into two agencies. One
would handle issues involving legal immigrants, and the other would handle
border enforcement issues.

On Wednesday, Bush also reiterated his call for improved schools and free trade
with Mexico.

Education is thought to be among the most critical national issues for the 31
million Hispanics. Just 62 percent of Hispanic adults aged 25-29 completed high
school, compared with 87 percent of blacks and 93 percent of whites, according
to federal figures.

"My vision says that every child in America can be educated and that no child
should be left behind," Bush said.

LOAD-DATE: July 6, 2000

LANGUAGE: English

                  Copyright 2000 St. Louis Post-Dispatch, Inc.


                              91 of 457 DOCUMENTS

                       St. Louis Post-Dispatch (Missouri)

                 July 6, 2000, Thursday, FIVE STAR LIFT EDITION

BUSH SAYS HE WOULD SPEED APPLICATIONS FOR U.S. RESIDENCY;
IMMIGRANTS SHOULD NOT BE GREETED BY A HOSTILE BUREAUCRACY, HE SAYS

BYLINE: From News Services

SECTION: NEWS, Pg. A3

LENGTH: 350 words

DATELINE: SAN DIEGOREPUBLICAN; PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATE; IMMIGRATION; REGULATIONS


Republican presidential candidate George W. Bush called Wednesday for all
permanent residency applications to be handled within six months.

Bush said the application process now takes at least three years. But the
Immigration and Naturalization Service announced late last year that the average
time to process a residency application had been cut to 12 months.

Bush said he wanted immigrants to be welcomed with open arms. He spoke at a
conference of the National Council of La Raza, which seeks to boost economic
opportunity for Hispanics.

"We will bring to the INS a new standard of service and culture of respect,"
Bush said.

If elected president, Bush said he would push for $ 500 million in new spending
to cut the average time needed to process a citizenship application.

"Every INS immigration application should be fully processed within six months
of submission," he said. "No immigrant should have to wait more than six months
for the INS to make a decision on his or her application. Legal immigrants are
the future and the changing face of America, and we should welcome them and
treat them with respect."

The new spending is the latest part of a proposed INS overhaul that Bush's
campaign believes will resonate with Latino voters.

"We've got an INS that is too bureaucratic, too stuck in the past," Bush said.

La Raza's immigration expert, Cecilia Munoz, said that Bush's proposals sounded
good but that she needed the details to determine whether Latinos would benefit.

She noted that Hispanic leaders largely opposed a similar INS proposal.  That
plan was sponsored by Rep. Lamar Smith, R-Texas, and was opposed on grounds that
it would weaken accountability on the border enforcement side while providing
less attention to the service side.

"As currently designed, it would make things worse," she said of that plan.

On Monday, Vice President Al Gore said Bush's policies as Texas governor had
worsened living conditions for Hispanics.

On Wednesday, Bush said Gore was interested solely in discrediting Bush's ideas
without putting forward solutions.

LOAD-DATE: July 6, 2000

LANGUAGE: English

                  Copyright 2000 St. Louis Post-Dispatch, Inc.


                              92 of 457 DOCUMENTS

                       St. Louis Post-Dispatch (Missouri)

                 July 8, 2000, Saturday, FIVE STAR LIFT EDITION

FLOTRON AD ATTACKS TWO GOP RIVALS IN 2ND DISTRICT

BYLINE: Ken Leiser; Of The Post-DispatchPOLITICAL ADVERTISING; CAMPAIGN ADS;
CAMPAIGN 2000; ATTACKS PROPAGANDA; CAMPAIGN TRAIL

SECTION: NEWS, Pg. 7

LENGTH: 387 words


* He takes aim at Gene McNary and Todd Akin, who are seeking the Republican
nomination for the seat in Congress. They are critical of the advertisement.

State Sen. Franc Flotron, R-Chesterfield, hit the airwaves this week with a shot
at not one, but two of his four Republican rivals in the 2nd Congressional
District primary.

The 30-second ad began airing Wednesday and criticizes Gene McNary, the former
St. Louis County executive, and state Rep. Todd Akin of Town and Country.

"I think it is important for people to know something about the three
candidates," said Flotron. "The real message behind this ad is judgment. I think
what we are pointing out with Gene is bad judgment."

Flotron renewed his criticism of McNary's record on tax increases and his legal
dealings after serving as head of the U.S. Immigration and Naturalization
Service under President George Bush.

Flotron said McNary tried to raise taxes while with the county and "made
millions" selling visas to foreigners after serving at the INS.

McNary acknowledged he did work as attorney on applications under the investor
visa program, which promised green cards to foreigners who invested at least $
500,000 in American companies.

McNary said he waited more than one year after leaving the INS to handle
immigration cases as an attorney and did nothing improper.

His campaign aides said they were disappointed by the Flotron ad.

"We are intending to run a positive campaign on Gene's record, which we feel is
a record of conservative Republican philosophy," said David Welch, McNary's
campaign manager. "That is what we plan to run on."

Flotron's ad also includes a swipe at Akin for disputed remarks that he made at
a forum earlier this year. According to the commercial and Flotron, Akin said he
was seeking the congressional seat to make a bigger paycheck than he could earn
if he sought Flotron's Senate seat.

Akin called the ad "silly" and said his comments were taken out of context.

Not mentioned in the advertisement were the other two candidates in the race:
Barbara Cooper, former district director for U.S. Rep. Jim Talent, who is giving
up the 2nd District seat; and Jack Jackson, a test pilot at Boeing Co.

Flotron said he considers himself, McNary and Akin as the only viable candidates
in the race.

LOAD-DATE: July 8, 2000

LANGUAGE: English

                  Copyright 2000 St. Louis Post-Dispatch, Inc.


                              93 of 457 DOCUMENTS

                       St. Louis Post-Dispatch (Missouri)

                July 27, 2000, Thursday, FIVE STAR LIFT EDITION

FLOTRON TARGETS MCNARY'S TAX RECORD AND HIS WORK AS IMMIGRATION LAWYER

BYLINE: Ken Leiser; Of The Post-DispatchPOLITICS; ELECTION; CAMPAIGN;
ADVERTISING; MEDIA; MARKETING

SECTION: NEWS, Pg. A10

LENGTH: 237 words


State Sen. Franc Flotron is renewing his attack on former St. Louis County
Executive Gene McNary in a new television ad that began airing this week.

The advertisement goes after McNary's tax record as the county's top
administrator and his work as an immigration lawyer after heading the
Immigration and Naturalization Service.

But it also suggests "McNary kept secret files on his political rivals" as St.
Louis County prosecutor in the late 1960s and early 1970s - a claim McNary
denied at the time and denies now.

The allegations by Flotron, R-Chesterfield, deal with a one-time operation by
the prosecutor's Special Services Division that included gathering newspaper
clippings on local politicians and municipal leaders.

"This is kind of the low point in desperation," McNary said.

He said the files the division kept were nothing more than "an incidental
newspaper clipping service" before electronic databases were available. The
existence of the files were made public in a Post-Dispatch article in July 1975,
about the time the division was disbanded.

The article said the newspaper clippings dealt with political figures of both
parties.

McNary said he is committed to sticking to a positive campaign but is
considering running advertisements on radio and television to combat the "smear"
tactics of his GOP opponent.

"I am going to try to answer some of these charges," he said.

LOAD-DATE: July 27, 2000

LANGUAGE: English

                  Copyright 2000 St. Louis Post-Dispatch, Inc.


                              94 of 457 DOCUMENTS

                       St. Louis Post-Dispatch (Missouri)

              September 21, 1999, Tuesday, FIVE STAR LIFT EDITION

WORLD

BYLINE: From News Services

SECTION: NEWS, Pg. A4

LENGTH: 834 words



CUBA

U.S. resident gets life for alien smuggling

A Cuban-born U.S. resident was sentenced to life imprisonment for the smuggling
of aliens and a second got 30 years after a trial that showed the dangers some
Cuban immigrants will risk to improve their work situation or be with their
families. The sentence, handed down on Friday, was not made public until court
documents in the case were made available to journalists on Monday. Joel Dorta
Garcia, 27, a resident of Key West, Fla., became the first person to be
sentenced to life for alien smuggling under a new toughening of Cuba's penal
code. David Garcia Capote, 32, who emigrated illegally to Miami earlier this
year, was sentenced to 30 years. Pedro Cordova, 29, who is unemployed and lives
in Mariel, outside Havana, got 15 years. The men were arrested on July 3 after
the 32-foot outboard boat they were piloting at a high rate of speed in
tumultuous seas off the coast of Mariel flipped over, and a 45-year-old attorney
aboard drowned. Aboard the boat were 14 people, including five children.
Authorities say t he vessel was only strong enough to carry six to eight people.


RUSSIA

Death toll from explosion rises to 18

The death toll from last week's explosion of an apartment building in southern
Russia rose to 18 on Monday, the news agency ITAR-Tass reported. A 39-year-old
woman, Lyudmila Zarezina, died in the intensive care unit of the hospital in
Volgodonsk, about 500 miles south of Moscow. She had been severely injured in
the blast that ripped through an apartment building in the city just before dawn
on Thursday. Russian authorities have blamed that explosion - and three others
that tore through Russian apartment buildings, killing some 300 people - on
Chechens and other Muslim militants battling Russian forces in the south.

MALAYSIA

15,000 protesters demand leader's resignation

About 15,000 demonstrators dressed in black, a gesture of mourning for
Malaysia's ousted and jailed deputy prime minister, gathered Monday night to
mark the anniversary of his arrest. Shouting "reformasi, reformasi," the Malay
word for reform and the rallying cry of Anwar Ibrahim's political movement, the
demonstrators took over a field in a Kuala Lumpur suburb, demanding the
resignation of Prime Minister Mahathir Mohamad and an independent investigation
into claims that Anwar has been poisoned in prison. Anwar remained in the
hospital Monday, where he has been for a week after his family and attorneys
told a judge that medical tests showed dangerously high levels of arsenic in his
urine.

GERMANY

Chancellor takes blame for election losses

Chancellor Gerhard Schroeder took the blame Monday for his party's latest
humiliation at the polls but again ruled out changes in an unpopular austerity
plan. Suffering his third election loss in eastern Germany this month, the
chancellor also promised a drive to win back voters in Germany's formerly
communist states. Schroeder's party fell behind the former East German
communists to third place in eastern Saxony state, winning just 10 percent of
the vote in its worst showing in a postwar state election. A year after voters
anxious for change lifted him to power, Schroeder acknowledged he's in trouble.
Sunday's result "is not good for the person who has to take principal
responsibility, which I do," he said Monday. But he insisted he would stick with
his plans to cut into Germany's social safety net.

INDIA

Land mine explosion kills four policemen

A land mine explosion in southern India killed four policemen on Monday, while
police in the eastern state of Bihar said they are worried about voting during
the coming weekend. The past weekend brought the bloodiest day so far in India's
monthlong parliamentary elections. Explosions and violence across the country on
Saturday killed 49 people - 38 of them in Bihar, India's poorest and most
lawless state. Seventy-one people also were injured by land mines in the state,
where two leftist groups declared a boycott of the voting for 543 seats in a new
lower house of parliament. Vote counting is to start Oct. 6, and a new
government is expected to be selected by mid-October.

TURKEY

Clash between mob rings in prison kills 7

A clash between inmates belonging to two competing underworld rings broke out at
a prison in Istanbul on Monday, killing seven inmates, authorities said. Justice
Minister Hikmet Sami Turk told the Anatolia news agency that three other inmates
were injured. Police later retook control of Bayrampasa prison, one of Turkey's
largest, reports said. Six inmates died in the prison; the seventh died at a
hospital. The shootout was sparked by inmates linked to Alaattin Cakici,
believed to be one of Turkey's top mob bosses, Anatolia said. His suspected
right-hand man attacked a member of another organized crime ring. Cakici,
currently in France fighting his extradition to Turkey, is wanted for a series
of murders.

LOAD-DATE: September 21, 1999

LANGUAGE: English

TYPE: World Briefs Column

                  Copyright 1999 St. Louis Post-Dispatch, Inc.


                              95 of 457 DOCUMENTS

                       St. Louis Post-Dispatch (Missouri)

                  April 27, 1999, Tuesday, THREE STAR EDITION

NATION

BYLINE: From News Services

SECTION: NEWS, Pg. A6

LENGTH: 856 words



Court OKs mediation for California's Prop. 187

A federal appeals court Monday granted California Gov. Gray Davis' request for
mediation in a dispute over Proposition 187, the divisive 1994 measure barring
illegal immigrants from attending public school or receiving other state
benefits. The decision means a mediator will try to get both sides to reach a
compromise over Proposition 187. Mediation is not binding. Proposition 187 was
approved by 59 percent of the voters, but virtually all of it has been blocked
by the federal courts from taking effect. Davis, a Democrat who took office
earlier this year, opposed Proposition 187. His predecessor, Republican Pete
Wilson, backed it.

One Houston octuplet remains in hospital

Only one of the seven surviving Houston octuplets remained in the hospital
Monday after the release of his youngest sister. Gorom Louis, the eighth-born
baby to Nkem Chukwu last December, was released from Texas Children's Hospital
on Friday, officials said Monday. She weighed 4 pounds 10 ounces upon discharge.
The last of the octuplets still hospitalized is Ikem, the firstborn of two boys
to Chukwu and her husband, Ikye Louis Udobi. He is listed in serious condition
but continues to progress, the hospital said.

Federal commission will study crime on docks

President Bill Clinton's administration is creating a special commission to
study crime and security on the nation's docks and suggest improvements to
Congress. The commission will be similar to one the administration created to
study airport security, said Sen. Bob Graham, D-Fla., who suggested the new
commission. Clinton will announce formation of the Graham Commission on Seaport
Crime and Security today, the senator said. Ports handle 95 percent of the
nation's trade. Over the next 15 to 20 years, cargo and passenger trade is
expected to triple.

CIA dedicates George Bush Center for Intelligence

Former President George Bush was honored Monday when the CIA's sprawling
headquarters was named for him. Bush told a cheering audience of intelligence
workers that he has nothing but "contempt and anger" for those who would betray
the sources of U.S. intelligence. The 74-year-old Bush, the only CIA director
ever to become president, told a VIP audience gathered under a tent on the plaza
outside the spy agency's front door that he deeply appreciates the act of
Congress that renamed the building. "I left here 22 years ago after a limited
tenure, and my stay here had a major impact on me, he said. "CIA became part of
my heartbeat back then, and it's never gone away." The CIA complex will be known
as the George Bush Center for Intelligence.

Arkansas man gets 4 months in babies' deaths

An Arkansas man who was out looking for mushrooms and arrowheads with a friend
while two little girls died in their sweltering car was sentenced Monday to four
months in jail for manslaughter. Justin Griffith, 28, pleaded guilty in March
and testified against Ricky Crisp, the father of one of the girls.
Sixteen-month-old Vicky Crisp and her cousin, 4-month-old Sidney Pippen, died of
heat exhaustion and dehydration last April near Bentonville. They were strapped
in their car seats and left for hours in a car that reached at least 130
degrees. Prosecutors said Vicky pulled her hair out in her agony. Crisp was
convicted of murder and sentenced to 14 years in prison. Griffith was also given
10 years' probation and fined $ 3,000.

Victims object to short cross-burning sentences

Two white teen-agers convicted of trying to burn a cross on the lawn of an
interracial couple were sentenced in Virginia Beach, Va., on Monday to minimal
jail time, prompting complaints from their victims. A judge followed a jury's
recommendation in sentencing Richard J. Elliott, 19, to 90 days in jail and a $
2,500 fine for attempting to burn a cross with the intent to intimidate.
Jonathan S. O'Mara, 19, pleaded guilty to the charge and to one of conspiracy
and was ordered to serve 45 days. Both teens re main free on bond while their
attorneys appeal. James Jubilee, who found the 4- by 2-foot wooden cross with a
burned spot in the middle on his lawn in May, said the defendants should have to
serve at least a year in prison. The maximum possible punishment on each charge
was five years.

Detroit sues gun makers for $ 100 million

Detroit sued the gun industry for more than $ 100 million Monday for "the havoc
wreaked on the city" by firearms. The lawsuit was brought against against 30
manufacturers, distributors and sellers. Wayne County, of which Detroit is a
part, separately sued the industry, too. The city said the industry should pay
for "the havoc wreaked on the city of Detroit by illegal handguns and other
firearms that have been carelessly and recklessly sold to individuals who should
not be armed in our society." Detroit's lawsuit did not specify the amount of
damages, but lawyers said it could exceed $ 100 million. Atlanta, Cleveland,
Chicago, Miami, New Orleans and Bridgeport, Conn., have filed similar lawsuits.
St. Louis says it will file such a suit later this year.

LOAD-DATE: July 25, 1999

LANGUAGE: English

GRAPHIC: PHOTO THE ASSOCIATED PRESS Photo - Executive Ed McNamara (left) of
Wayne County in Michigan and prosecutor John O'Hair (foreground) and other
officials describe the lawsuit they filed against the gun industry for "the
havoc wreaked" by firearms. The city of Detroit also joined the suit.

TYPE: Nation Briefs Column

                  Copyright 1999 St. Louis Post-Dispatch, Inc.


                              96 of 457 DOCUMENTS

                       St. Louis Post-Dispatch (Missouri)

               November 8, 1997, Saturday, FIVE STAR LIFT EDITION

Q & A:

SECTION: NEWS, Pg. 19

LENGTH: 101 words


Q: What is the difference between California's Proposition 187 and the more
recent one dealing with affirmative action?

A: Proposition 187 was the controversial initiative to cut off illegal
immigrants' access to state benefits such as education, welfare and
non-emergency health services. California voters passed it in 1994 by 59-41
percent. The other one was Proposition 209, a ballot initiative in 1996 that
would bar state government from relying on race- or gender-based preferences in
educational admissions, public hiring and contracting. The measure passed, 54-46
percent.



LOAD-DATE: November 9, 1997

LANGUAGE: English

                  Copyright 1997 St. Louis Post-Dispatch, Inc.


                              97 of 457 DOCUMENTS

                       St. Louis Post-Dispatch (Missouri)

               July 9, 1998, Thursday, ILLINOIS FIVE STAR EDITION

U.S. AGENTS DISCOVER LEAK IN BORDER

BYLINE: The Associated Press

SECTION: NEWS, Pg. A2

LENGTH: 68 words

DATELINE: SAN DIEGO


Border Patrol agents became suspicious when illegal immigrants kept popping up
covered with mud, when there hadn't been rain in weeks.

The aliens had cracked open a cross-border tunnel that was sealed shut in 1993
with galvanized steel reinforcing rods and locks on the U.S. side and concrete
on the Mexico side. The 400-yard link between San Diego and Tijuana, Mexico, has
been put under 24-hour watch.

LOAD-DATE: July 10, 1998

LANGUAGE: English

                  Copyright 1998 St. Louis Post-Dispatch, Inc.


                              98 of 457 DOCUMENTS

                       St. Louis Post-Dispatch (Missouri)

                 June 3, 1999, Thursday, FIVE STAR LIFT EDITION

TWELVE ILLEGAL ALIENS ARE DEPORTED AFTER RAID AT APARTMENTS

BYLINE: Michele Munz; Of The St. Charles County Post

SECTION: ST. CHARLES COUNTY POST, Pg. 1

LENGTH: 416 words


An investigation by the St. Charles County Regional Drug Task Force has resulted
in the deportation of 12 illegal aliens who authorities say were dealing drugs
in the Powell Terrace area.

The task force received a tip from an informer last week that the aliens, all
from Mexico, possessed marijuana, cocaine and guns, said Lt. Jeff Finkelstein,
commander.

The men were selling the drugs out of their apartment complex on Circle Drive in
exchange for guns and money, the informer told authorities. At one time, the
informer reported seeing several pounds of cocaine and as many as a dozen
handguns and rifles, Finkelstein said.

Officers set up surveillance of the complex and recorded a drug deal between the
informer and one of the men, he said. Based on that information, the task force
obtained a search warrant.

The St. Charles police tactical unit entered the apartment just before midnight
Friday. Three illegal aliens were discovered inside the apartment and eight were
standing outside a neighboring apartment, Finkelstein said.

Officers found enough marijuana, he said, to charge the men with possession with
the intent to distribute. Officers also found a "cutting agent" that drug
dealers often mix with cocaine before selling it.

Two agents from the federal Immigration and Naturalization Service were on hand
at the raid with a van. The INS deported all the men, ranging in age from 19 to
late 40s, authorities said.

Finkelstein suspects the group may have moved a cache of guns and drugs to
another site in St. Louis County because of increased police patrols in the
neighborhood.

Also inside the apartment were two girls, ages 14 and 15, who were from the St.
Charles area, authorities said. They told police they were friends with the men,
yet none of the men spoke English.

The next morning, the task force arrested a man who they believe was the ring
leader of the group - Adrian Garcia, 19 - at another residence.

Officers found a small amount of marijuana in his car, Finkelstein said. Garcia
was the only one in the group with transportation.

The INS had been seeking Garcia as the result of an investigation into an
automobile crash in St. Ann, where he is suspected of leaving the scene of an
accident, authorities said.

Authorities suspect the group had lived in the apartment complex for the past
eight months.

Anyone with information about illegal drug activity can call the St.  Charles
County Regional Drug Task Force at (800) 559-DOPE.

LOAD-DATE: June 4, 1999

LANGUAGE: English

                  Copyright 1999 St. Louis Post-Dispatch, Inc.


                              99 of 457 DOCUMENTS

                       St. Louis Post-Dispatch (Missouri)

                June 23, 1999, Wednesday, FIVE STAR LIFT EDITION

SUSPECT WAS ARRESTED HERE IN 1988 AND SENT TO PRISON

BYLINE: Paul Hampel; Of The Post-Dispatch

SECTION: NEWS, Pg. A1

LENGTH: 764 words


Suspected serial murderer Rafael Resendez-Ramirez was arrested in St. Louis in
1988 and later convicted for immigration violations and document fraud.

At the time of his arrest, he gave his name as "Jose Mengele," a possible
allusion to the infamous Nazi "Angel of Death," Dr. Josef Mengele. That alias
may have been a portent for a murderous rage to come almost a decade later.

Authorities believe Resendez-Ramirez has killed at least eight times since 1997,
hopping freight trains in several states in search of victims. Police think he
struck again last week, beating to death an elderly man and his daughter near
Gorham, Ill., 90 miles southeast of St. Louis.

In April, 1988 Resendez-Ramirez was arrested at a homeless shelter in downtown
St. Louis. Even by then, he had already been deported from the United States
twice.

His trial the following year was unusual; he represented himself and said he was
unsure of who he was.

Nevertheless, a jury convicted him in federal court here of 16 counts that
included using aliases to obtain false documents, such as social security cards
and passports. He also was convicted of felony possession of a firearm and of
falsely claiming to be a U.S. citizen.

He was sentenced in June of that year to 30 months in prison and was to be
deported after serving his sentence. As in the past, he didn't stay in Mexico.

Resendez-Ramirez' clashes with American law enforcement date back to at least
1976, when the Immigration and Naturalization Service deported him to Mexico as
an illegal alien.

He was convicted in 1980 in Dade County, Fla., of several felonies including
burglary, auto theft and aggravated assault and battery.

In 1986, he was convicted in Texas of falsely claiming to be a U.S.  citizen.

In 1988, INS officers in St. Louis responded to a tip from authorities in New
Orleans and arrested Resendez-Ramirez at St. Patrick's Center, a downtown
shelter for the homeless.

Resendez-Ramirez told the officers he was born in Managua, Nicaragua, on May 15,
1963. FBI officials recently said he was born in Puebla, Mexico, on Aug. 1,
1960.

He had three different Social Security cards and a false passport at the time of
his arrest. At that time, he went by 12 aliases; recently the FBI numbered his
false names at more than 30 and he has possessed many more false ID papers.

When police searched his clothing in 1988, they found a key to a locker at the
Greyhound bus station in downtown St. Louis. A search revealed a .380-caliber
semiautomatic pistol purchased at a pawn shop in San Antonio; two machete-like
knives and a small amount of marijuana, officials said.

That is when Resendez-Ramirez told police his name was Jose Konig Mengele.

In court, U.S. District Judge William C. Hungate asked: "You're not committed to
a first name, then?"

Resendez-Ramirez told the judge he could call him "just anything, anything."

For the purpose of the trial, in which Resendez-Ramirez insisted on representing
himself, the court decided upon calling him Jose Angel Reyes-Resendez, the name
that Resendez-Ramirez's half-sister, Manuela Karkiewicz, gave for him during
court testimony.

Karkiewicz told the court her brother was born in Puebla, Mexico, in August of
1955.

In his cross-examination, Resendez-Ramirez asked Karkiewicz, "How long have you
known the defendant?" before adding as an afterthought, "The defendant is me."

She told the court that she hadn't seen her brother in years, but remembered him
as a loving son and brother.

In testimony, Resendez-Ramirez told the court he was a Libertarian, an
anti-Sandinista and was committed to the "overthrow of Communism."

In his closing statement, Resendez-Ramirez told the jury in broken English: "I
won't ask you to find me guilty or not guilty. That's up to you. I consider
myself very unworthy of you."

He also told the jury that the behavior of "the secretary of Oliver North" was
proof that the U.S. government was "unruly," and he implied that the evidence
seized from his Greyhound locker was planted by someone who picked the lock.

Later, Resendez-Ramirez told the jury he was "a talker" and a "politician" with
only one purpose in life: "I have been instructed (to do) anything that can put
down Christianity, anything that can put down democracy, anything that can put
down freedom."

Before thanking the jury, he said: "I wouldn't try to play with your mind, but
there's many things I don't know myself. Can I tell you who really I am, about
all the secrecy that's in the family? I probably could tell you who I think I
am."

LOAD-DATE: November 2, 2000

LANGUAGE: English

NOTES: IN ST. LOUIS

GRAPHIC: PHOTO

                  Copyright 1999 St. Louis Post-Dispatch, Inc.


                              100 of 457 DOCUMENTS

                       St. Louis Post-Dispatch (Missouri)

              December 25, 1999, Saturday, FIVE STAR LIFT EDITION

FEARS ABOUT TERRORISTS NOW FOCUS ON OUR LONG AND UNPATROLLED BORDER WITH;
CANADA;
OFFICIALS HAVE NO IDEA HOW MANY PEOPLE ENTER THE U.S. ILLEGALLY FROM CANADA

BYLINE: The Associated Press

SECTION: NEWS, Pg. A6

LENGTH: 699 words

DATELINE: MONTPELIER, VT.


The 3,987-mile line between the United States and Canada is considered the
world's longest undefended border. That means it often allows easy passage for
smugglers - and raises the possibility that terrorists can slip through, too.

Authorities say recent arrests in Washington state and Vermont show that
terrorists can set their sights on the United States after first finding a haven
in Canada.

In the first case, an Algerian man is charged with bringing bomb-making
materials into the United States. In the second, authorities have detained two
people, an Algerian with a false passport and a Canadian woman accused of having
ties to Algerian extremist groups.

Other illicit activity is common. The stretch of the border in upstate New York
and New England is a hotbed of smuggling in both directions. People, drugs and
cash are the primary southbound cargo, while liquor and cigarettes are the
northbound contraband of choice.

Border Patrol spokesman Ed Duda said people from more than 100 countries have
been caught trying to illegally enter the United States. Officials realize that
many illegal immigrants still get across - but they have no idea how many.

"We catch as many as we can," Duda said. "There is no iron curtain up here, and
there are no land mines."

There are checkpoints on roads between the United States and Canada, but there
is no fence along the border. In many locations people can walk through fields
or take boats across rivers or lakes. The Border Patrol has remote sensors in
some locations, but their staffing levels make it impossible for them to cover
the length of the border.

Now law enforcement officials in the United States and Canada fear the trust
that allows the border to go largely unpatrolled has made the United States
vulnerable to terrorist attack.

"You can't blow up anything in the United States if you can't get in here," said
Phillip Stern, an international private investigator and security consultant in
New York.

Bob Tripi, deputy chief patrol agent in Houlton, Maine, keeps his Border Patrol
staff busy watching Maine's 616 miles of border. Besides working bus terminals,
they're using all-terrain vehicles, and sometimes snowmobiles, to patrol remote
areas.

While the Border Patrol looks for people trying to sneak across, the Immigration
and Naturalization Service deals with people who try to enter the United States
through checkpoints.

The INS agent in charge in Vermont, Noel Induni, said most people turned away
from checkpoints are convicted criminals. He said roughly 300 people a month are
denied entry.

"While it's a relatively large number of people, it's a small percentage of the
total because we have several million who cross every year," he said.

Adds Carol Jenifer, immigration district director in Detroit: "Given the volume
of work we have, I think we do a pretty good job. I think we could do much
better if we had all the resources we needed."

But the porous nature of the Canadian border is still apparent. It is becoming
less expensive for a Mexican citizen to fly to Canada, where immigration laws
are less stringent, and sneak across the U.S.-Canadian border than it is to hire
a smuggler to go directly across the U.S.-Mexican border, said Keith Olson,
president of the Border Patrol officers' union in Bellingham, Wash.

Would-be drug smugglers also know the flaws in the system. Vancouver's Cannabis
Cafe, currently closed due to a police raid, offered customers maps of the
border, noting the areas where patrols were few and far between. A kayaker from
Victoria, British Columbia, was recently captured by a sheriff on Washington's
San Juan Island with a big stash of marijuana.

While it's rare to apprehend suspected terrorists along the border, it's
happened before.

Almost four years ago, a Lebanese man caught trying to illegally enter the
United States at Champlain, N.Y., was linked to the Middle East terrorist group
Abu Nidal.

In 1987, three Lebanese-born Canadians were arrested with a bomb in the border
town of Richford, Vt. In 1978, Kristina Berster, a suspected member of the
former West Germany's Baader-Meinhoff Gang, was captured entering Vermont.

LOAD-DATE: December 26, 1999

LANGUAGE: English

GRAPHIC: PHOTO Photo by THE ASSOCIATED PRESS - U.S. customs inspectors check
vehicles crossing the Peace Bridge from Canada into Buffalo, N.Y., on Wednesday.
There are checkpoints on roads, but there is no fence along the border.

                  Copyright 1999 St. Louis Post-Dispatch, Inc.


                              101 of 457 DOCUMENTS

                       St. Louis Post-Dispatch (Missouri)

            January 29, 1997, Wednesday, ILLINOIS FIVE STAR EDITION

BRIEFS

BYLINE: AP,; Post-Dispatch Springfield Bureau

SECTION: NEWS, Pg. 02B, BRIEFS/REGION COLUMN

LENGTH: 595 words



SPRINGFIELD

New Law Will Streamline Adoptions In Abuse Case

Gov. Jim Edgar signed a bill Tuesday helping foster parents who want to adopt
abused and neglected children.

The law streamlines the process of terminating the rights of biological parents
in abuse cases.

"Children who have been removed from their homes because of extreme abuse and
neglect can be joined with loving, caring parents much more quickly," Edgar
said.

Jess McDonald, director of the state's Department of Children and Family
Services, said hundreds of children each year would benefit from being adopted
more quickly.

It now can take almost five years for paperwork and termination of parental
rights to place a child in a permanent adoptive home.

Post-Dispatch Springfield Bureau

EAST ST. LOUIS   $ 3.2 Million HUD Grant To Go For Revitalization

East St. Louis will receive $ 3.2 million in federal community planning and
development grants.

The award, from the Department of Housing and Urban Development, was announced
Tuesday by Sen. Carol Moseley-Braun, D-Ill.

The money will be used for urban revitalization, for financial assistance to
first-time home buyers, for homeless shelters and to help people with AIDS find
housing.

AP

MOUNT VERNON

3 Illegal Aliens Arrested At Wal-Mart Building Site

Controversy over labor practices at a Wal-Mart construction site has widened
with news that three illegal aliens were among the nonunion laborers working on
the store.

The federal Immigration and Naturalization Service took the workers, all
Mexicans, into custody Friday. They were returned to Mexico.

The Laborers' International Union has been protesting the use of nonunion,
out-of-state labor to build a Wal-Mart Supercenter in Mount Vernon.

About 200 union supporters picketed the Mount Vernon site and other stores last
week. Wal-Mart has defended its practices, saying its contractors make hiring
decisions.

AP

PONTIAC

Glitch In Poison Hot Line Links Callers To Sex Ad

Callers seeking an antidote for poison are instead getting an offer for phone
sex in a glitch that has GTE officials red-faced.

The toll-free poison control center phone number listed in the Pontiac GTE
directory connects callers to a recorded seductive female voice saying, "You
have reached full-service phone sex, where no request is too taboo."

GTE officials said they were unaware of the situation, and would investigate.

AP

PEORIA

House Fire Critically Hurts Pryor's Great-Grandson

The great-grandson of comedian Richard Pryor was in critical condition Tuesday
night after a house fire in Peoria, officials said.

Antwan Banks Jr., 2, was being treated for smoke inhalation at OSF Saint Francis
Medical Center, a hospital spokeswoman said.

The fire late Monday also sent the comedian's son and Antwan's grandfather,
Richard Pryor Jr., 34, to the hospital. He was released after treatment for
frostbite and smoke inhalation.

AP

MARION

New Accounting Rules Aim To Head Off Theft

Stung by six years of thefts totaling more than $ 50,000, the city of Marion has
instituted tough new accounting rules.

"We have put in place checks and balances which did not exist (before last
year), so that one person does not handle transactions all the way through,"
said Sharon Atchison, the city's finance commissioner.

In September, former Treasurer Ron Joyner pleaded guilty to embezzling $ 40,000
over six years. City officials have placed the total loss at more than $ 50,000.


AP

LOAD-DATE: January 29, 1997

LANGUAGE: English

                  Copyright 1997 St. Louis Post-Dispatch, Inc.


                              102 of 457 DOCUMENTS

                       St. Louis Post-Dispatch (Missouri)

                April 17, 1997, Thursday, FIVE STAR LIFT EDITION

ILLEGAL IMMIGRANT ACCUSED OF KILLING HOSTS' SON

BYLINE: Nicholas C. Wishart; Of The Post-Dispatch Staff

SECTION: NEWS, Pg. 12A

LENGTH: 239 words


A 34-year-old illegal immigrant from Mexico who was living with a family in
Lincoln County has been charged with killing one of the family.

Francisco Quintanilla is accused of killing Alejandro Esquivel, 16, at the house
they shared with Esquivel's parents on Woodchuck Lane in southwest Lincoln
County. The teen died from a gunshot wound to the head.

"The wound is not self-inflicted," said Lincoln County Prosecutor John Richards.
"So, (Quintanilla) either shot the boy or thought the gun was on safety and
while messing around shot him. It's not a suicide, and it's not accidental."

Quintanilla was charged Wednesday with second-degree murder and involuntary
manslaughter. As the case is investigated, and more evidence is uncovered, one
of the charges will likely be dropped.

The shooting took place Saturday morning. Quintanilla called sheriff's deputies
to the scene; Esquivel's parents were out of town. The gun that killed Esquivel
was kept at the house, authorities said.

Esquivel had been living in the area with his parents for several months. His
parents had moved to Lincoln County from Tucson, Ariz., with plans to open a
Mexican restaurant.

Quintanilla is not talking to police, but authorities have been able to
determine that the man came to Lincoln County with the Esquivel family. Richards
said Quintanilla is an old friend of the family. Esquivel's body was taken to
Tucson for burial.

LOAD-DATE: April 18, 1997

LANGUAGE: English

                  Copyright 1997 St. Louis Post-Dispatch, Inc.


                              103 of 457 DOCUMENTS

                       St. Louis Post-Dispatch (Missouri)

                 July 27, 1997, Sunday, FIVE STAR LIFT EDITION

2 IN CHICAGO ARRESTED IN SMUGGLING OF DEAF

BYLINE: AP

SECTION: NEWS, Pg. 06A

LENGTH: 154 words

DATELINE: CHICAGO


Two deaf illegal aliens from Mexico were arrested and charged with conspiring to
smuggle deaf Mexicans into the United States and forcing them to sell $ 1 key
chains and other trinkets in Chicago.

The defendants, arrested Friday and Saturday, are linked to a similar operation
in New York, Immigration and Naturalization Service spokesman Russ Bergeron said
Saturday. They will be sent to New York for prosecution.

"This firmly establishes a linkage between the deaf Mexican nationals in Chicago
and the original ones in New York," Bergeron said. He refused to be more
specific because of the continuing investigation.

In Chicago, nine deaf illegal aliens from Mexico and two deaf children born in
the United States "were controlled by members of an organization requiring them
to go out and sell trinkets . . . and turn over proceeds to the organization,"
Bergeron said. "They were exploited and controlled."

LOAD-DATE: July 28, 1997

LANGUAGE: English

                  Copyright 1997 St. Louis Post-Dispatch, Inc.


                              104 of 457 DOCUMENTS

                       St. Louis Post-Dispatch (Missouri)

                October 7, 1997, Tuesday, FIVE STAR LIFT EDITION

FOR OPENERS, HIGH COURT JUST SAYS NO

BYLINE: AP

SECTION: NEWS, Pg. 07A

LENGTH: 529 words

DATELINE: WASHINGTON


It was bad-news-only day at the Supreme Court for prisoners, government agencies
and everyone else seeking help. The court officially began its 1997-98 term
Monday by rejecting about 1,500 appeals and not adding one to its decision
workload.

Among the disappointed were officials from Arizona and California who had sought
relief from what they called an "invasion" of illegal aliens.

The justices, who flex their discretion by granting full review to fewer than
100 of the more than 7,000 disputes that reach the court each year, got a head
start on the new term last week by agreeing to hear 10 new cases.

That beefed up to 58 the number of cases the court has pledged to decide by
June. Through January, the justices are likely to add 25 to 30 more cases.

In the rejected illegal-aliens cases, appeals by Arizona and California said the
federal government had violated the Constitution's provision requiring the
United States to protect all states from invasion.

"California is the victim of a massive, unlawful and continuing invasion of
approximately 125,000 illegal immigrants across its borders every year," the
state's attorneys told the justices.

Arizona's separate appeal added, "The federal government's failure to honor the
Constitution's express guarantee to protect Arizona's borders has forced Arizona
to incur millions of dollars in avoidable costs."

Both suits, seeking reimbursement, were thrown out by lower courts.

The 9th U.S. Circuit Court of Appeals ruled that protecting states from invasion
"implicates foreign policy concerns" and is not a proper matter for the courts.

In other matters Monday, the court:

Refused to order the public release of President Bill Clinton's videotaped
testimony in last year's criminal trial in Arkansas of his former Whitewater
partners.

Left intact a ruling the government said could hamper enforcing limits on
corporate spending and other election rules aimed at fighting corruption. Acting
in a case from Maine, the court turned away the argument by Clinton's
administration for limits on corporate spending in support of someone's
election, even if the message does not specifically say to vote for the
candidate.

Let stand Paul Hill's murder convictions and death sentence for gunning down a
doctor and his bodyguard outside an abortion clinic in Pensacola, Fla.

Allowed newspapers in Washington state to bar reporters from off-duty political
activism, a controversy that had drawn attention nationwide from journalism,
labor and gay-rights groups.

Rejected a challenge to Indiana University's custom of having a clergy member
offer two prayers at the school's graduation ceremony each May. The court turned
away arguments that the practice violates the constitutionally required
separation of religion and government.

Rebuffed a challenge, for the third time in a year, to Clinton's "don't ask,
don't tell" policy on homosexuals in the armed forces.

Asked Justice Department attorneys for their views in a case from Cedar Rapids,
Iowa, over public school districts' asserted duty to pay for nurses to accompany
some disabled students throughout the school day.

LOAD-DATE: October 8, 1997

LANGUAGE: English

                  Copyright 1997 St. Louis Post-Dispatch, Inc.


                              105 of 457 DOCUMENTS

                       St. Louis Post-Dispatch (Missouri)

                     May 4, 1998, Monday, FIVE STAR EDITION

DON'T CLOSE THE DOOR ON IMMIGRANTS

BYLINE: George Newman

SECTION: EDITORIAL, Pg. B7

LENGTH: 890 words


Congress is in the process of considering a major change in our immigration
laws, a change that would be of enormous benefit to us all.

As expected, the forces of darkness - who oppose immigration of any kind, who
would isolate us from participating in the global economy, who would sever our
ties with continuing sources of talent and drive that have made this country
strong and prosperous - are fiercely fighting the change.

The law now allows for 65,000 new H-1B visas to be granted each year. These
specialty-occupation visas are used to permit talented people to come to this
country. Those covered under this provision include information technology
professionals, scientific researchers, university teaching faculty, or
physicians recruited to practice in medically underserved areas.

Within days, the 65,000 limitation will be reached for this federal fiscal year
and no more of these people will be admitted until October. In the meantime,
this country's ability to compete with overseas industries, o r to provide care
for its medically underserved areas, will be placed on hold. Last year these
visas ran out in August; each year the problem gets worse.

Sen. Spencer Abraham, R-Mich., has proposed raising the cap to 90,000 from
65,000. Sen. Edward Kennedy, D-Mass., has made a similar proposal. Yet in the
House the myth mongers have stalled the effort. Here are a few of the latest
examples:

Myth: The high-tech labor shortage reported in a recent study by the U.S.
Department of Commerce was created by high-tech companies so they could hire the
cheapest workers possible. Even the Government Accounting Office said the
shortage was not real.

Fact: While the GAO has criticized the recent Commerce Department study on the
high-tech labor shortage, the GAO did not deny the existence of the shortage.
Industry groups have documented labor shortages for years. Now these shortages
are so severe that high-tech companies are forced to use H-1B workers to make up
the difference.

But it is not only high-tech companies that are using H-1B; education, medical
care, manufacturing, pharmaceuticals and other industries use them as well.
Because of the high-tech labor shortage, the chances of these industries getting
the H-1B workers that they need are vanishing.

Myth: H-1B workers take jobs from Americans.

Fact: Due to the regulations governing an H-1B worker - in particular the law
that insists H-1Bs must be paid the prevailing wage or better - it is always
harder and often more expensive to hire H-1Bs over Americans. Companies hire
these professionals as a last resort. Americans are always a company's first
choice, but Americans with the right skills are harder and harder to find. For
example, the unemployment rate for electrical engineers is at an unheard of rate
of 0.4 percent.

H-1Bs work in jobs that create other jobs, usually for Americans. As a project
manager or an engineer, they are responsible for marketing specialists,
administrators, finance managers and others. Without H-1Bs, all these resulting
jobs could disappear.

Myth: If U.S. companies spent time training workers, they wouldn't need H-1Bs.

Fact: U.S. companies already spend an estimated $ 210 billion annually on the
formal and informal training of their work force, and donate a similar amount to
schools, colleges and universities. But the gap between these companies' needs
and the currently available skills of the work force remains large, and H-1Bs
play a vital role in closing that gap and assuring that America's economic
growth and world leadership role continue.

Myth: H-1B professionals drive down wages.

Fact: By law, an H-1B professional must be paid at least the higher of either
the wage the employer pays similar U.S.-born workers or the wage the competition
pays. If employers fail to meet this requirement, they can be fined and mandated
to make up the difference to the workers.

Myth: Only high-tech companies use H-1Bs.

Fact: Employers that use H-1Bs span Wall Street to Main Street. High-tech
companies use and are helped by the H-1B program. But this program is also used
by a wide variety of businesses, non-profit organizations, and other kinds of
U.S. employers, including universities (to bring in needed professors and key
researchers); organizations (to bring in key knowledge of international markets,
standards or policies); non-profit and other institutions (for scientific and
medical product development and research); and medical care facilities (to bring
in physicians to provide care in state and federally designated physician
shortage areas).

The H-1B program also helps small business, partnerships and individual
proprietorships that are just starting up. Through the H-1B program, these small
businesses can hire foreign professionals with the expertise needed to start up
operations or expand into new markets. Without the H-1B program, job creation in
both large and small companies will lag and American jobs will be lost to
competition from abroad.

It would be a shame if this country allows itself to be cut off from the
worldwide talent pool, especially if this occurs in order to serve the twisted
and doctrinaire agenda of those who oppose all forms of immigration. Let's
demand that Congress act now to keep the United States competitive.

LOAD-DATE: May 5, 1998

LANGUAGE: English

                  Copyright 1998 St. Louis Post-Dispatch, Inc.


                              106 of 457 DOCUMENTS

                       St. Louis Post-Dispatch (Missouri)

                 April 12, 2000, Wednesday, THREE STAR EDITION

BILL SEEKS UNLIMITED VISAS FOR HIGH-TECH WORKERS

BYLINE: The Associated Press

SECTION: NEWS, Pg. A5

LENGTH: 307 words

DATELINE: WASHINGTON


The chairman of the House immigration subcommittee has introduced legislation
that would allow an unlimited number of visas over the next three years for
foreigners with prized high-tech skills.

The measure offered Tuesday by Rep. Lamar Smith, R-Texas, is far broader than a
version he offered just weeks ago that would have provided a one-time increase
of 45,000 visas in the program.

Smith said his plan would address the booming high-tech industry's complaint of
persistent labor shortages. At a news conference, Smith said he expanded his
bill after learning that this year's demand for visas outpaced last year's
request by 50,000.

Industry officials, who support other House and Senate proposals that would
raise the H-1B visa program beyond its 115,000 annual limit, said Smith's bill
is laced with anti-business provisions - and they questioned whether, if
implemented, it would result in any increases.

"Maybe he just felt the tide swinging dramatically against him, and he thought
if he put out a large number that people wouldn't notice there were so many
strings attached to it," said Harris Miller, president of the Information
Technology Association of America.

The provisions in Smith's bill disliked by high-tech interests include language
requiring companies petitioning for H-1B visas to show they've increased their
U.S. work force and raised salaries for American workers and to file public
reports on the foreign workers and their pay.

The industry backs a bill drafted by the chairmen of the Senate Judiciary
Committee and its immigration subcommittee that would boost the H-1B program to
195,000 visas annually over three years. Also favored is a House version offered
by Reps. David Dreier, R-Calif., and Zoe Lofgren, D-Calif., that would raise the
ceiling to 200,000 annually over three years.

LOAD-DATE: April 12, 2000

LANGUAGE: English

                  Copyright 2000 St. Louis Post-Dispatch, Inc.


                              107 of 457 DOCUMENTS

                       St. Louis Post-Dispatch (Missouri)

                 May 9, 1998, Saturday, FIVE STAR LIFT EDITION

U.S. HALTS VISA APPLICATIONS FOR FOREIGN SKILLED WORKERS

BYLINE: Reuters News Service

SECTION: NEWS, Pg. 26

LENGTH: 164 words

DATELINE: WASHINGTON


The United States is closing the door on visa applications by companies seeking
to import skilled foreign employees this year, the Immigration and
Naturalization Service said Friday.

The INS has calculated that, given the number of applications already received
for the so-called H-1B visas, it will hit the legal maximum of 65,000 a year by
the end of the fiscal year on Sept. 30.

With U.S. unemployment at its lowest level in almost 30 years, U.S. businesses
have been pressing the administration to raise the 65,000 ceiling. The visas are
for temporary employment in jobs that require at least a bachelor's degree.
Typical openings are for architects, engineers, accountants, doctors, computer
programmers and college professors. Recipients can come to the United States for
an initial period of three years, extendable for another three years.

The INS will stop accepting applications starting Monday. Visas for the fiscal
year 1999 become available on October 1.

LOAD-DATE: May 9, 1998

LANGUAGE: English

                  Copyright 1998 St. Louis Post-Dispatch, Inc.


                              108 of 457 DOCUMENTS

                       St. Louis Post-Dispatch (Missouri)

                 September 27, 1998, Sunday, THREE STAR EDITION

AS GEORGES RAGED, PEOPLE ON KEYS TOOK SHELTER AND PRAYED;
RESORT HOTEL BECAME A HAVEN IN THE STORM FOR IMMIGRANT WORKERS AND THEIR;
FAMILIES

BYLINE: Scripps Howard News Service

SECTION: NEWS, Pg. A9

LENGTH: 496 words

DATELINE: MARATHON, FLA.


Immigrant women who work as domestics at the Banana Bay Resort lined the lobby
of the hotel with their young ones and appealed to God for safety as Hurricane
Georges bore down on the Florida Keys.

"En ti esta mi fortaleza," they sang softly: "In you is my strength."

Jennifer Garcia, 3, and Stephanie Reyes, 2, sat snuggled with friends, brightly
colored swimming inner tubes tucked on their waists, glowing light sticks around
their necks, swaying to the soft, melodious hymns.

Georges' winds swept Marathon Key on Friday morning, the power flickering
several times, then falling silent.

It was time.

"It's like, we find strength in God," said 13-year-old Andrea Garcia,
translating for her relatives and friends, Spanish-speaking hotel workers -
Cubans, Dominicans and Guatemalans - at the resort.

Just outside the door, Orlando Moreira, a commercial fisherman, stood with
friends watching banana trees bowing in the wind and orange hibiscus seemingly
floating across the pavement.

Half an hour earlier, Jay Wagner toiled against the gusts on a deserted U.S. 1
just to get a glimpse of the impending Category 2 storm, which hit the middle
Keys with its full force before noon.

The storm brought gusts up to 115 mph to the lower Keys, causing scattered
damage, as the hurricane moved into the Gulf of Mexico, bound for landfall
sometime Sunday on a stretch of coast from the Florida Panhandle to Louisiana.

Back on the front porch at Banana Bay, Moreira stood in his raincoat, clutching
the railing.

"I normally live in a trailer park next door," he said. But, he says, he feels
plenty safe in the hotel where his wife has worked for four years.

Nancy Sosa, a hotel employee, warned dozens of guests to stay away from front
doors and gather in the enclosed hallway when the storm picks up.

'I'm a little scared'

Bruce Henderson, general manager of the resort, said, "We've got at least 50
people in this building, because it's about 15 feet above the surf line."

Other rooms were reserved for emergency workers, Marine Patrol officers and the
media, looking for a haven.

"I'm a little scared," said 12-year-old Fausta Moreira, snuggling next to her
father. "We slept pretty good last night, but before that, we just sang songs,
then sat around and watched about the hurricane on TV."

Valerie LaTorre, a "Conch," or native of the Keys, took the whole matter a
little more in stride.

"I've lived on Marathon all my life, and this is nothing compared to what I've
been through," she said.

Sosa, who was acting as hall monitor, reprimanded some of the children for
standing too close to a glass door.

"Everybody's pretty stressed out right now, including me," she said, looking
somewhat haggard. "I'm just asking everybody during the big showers to unplug
their televisions so nothing blows up."

Outside, as the storm intensified, the crack of broken trees echoed through the
parking lot.

"In you is my strength."

LOAD-DATE: September 29, 1998

LANGUAGE: English

GRAPHIC: PHOTO Color Photo by THE ASSOCIATED PRESS - Boats line up in the
mangroves in Upper Matecumbe Key, Fla., in an attempt to avoid Hurricane
Georges. Shelters and hotels from Miami to Orlando filled up after more than 1.2
million people left coastal areas.

                  Copyright 1998 St. Louis Post-Dispatch, Inc.


                              109 of 457 DOCUMENTS

                       St. Louis Post-Dispatch (Missouri)

                 July 18, 1999, Sunday, FIVE STAR LIFT EDITION

LIFE IS BETTER FOR IMMIGRANT WORKERS, AND GOOD FOR WHERE THEY'VE LANDED.

BYLINE: Dan Mihalopoulos; And Tim O'Neil

SECTION: IMAGINE ST. LOUIS, Pg. B1

LENGTH: 2723 words


* Jobs and a willingness to work hard combine to make the immigration picture at
the turn of the century optimistic. In this region, businesses and neighborhoods
are being strengthened by an influx of highly motivated immigrants and refugees.
Although there may be pockets of resentment and resistence to strangers from
other countries, the national trend is toward accommodation of new arrivals.
Here is how this region encourages and nourishes new arrivals - and how their
presence benefits us all.

WHAT'S AT STAKE

Who's coming to St. Louis?

In earlier installments of Imagine St. Louis, we discussed how the region has
incorporated Vietnamese, Bosnian and Mexican newcomers in sizable numbers. There
also has been a lot of media attention recently on refugees from Kosovo.

Many don't resemble the stereotype of the poor, bedraggled "wretched refuse,"
overjoyed simply to reach Ellis Island and to get a fighting chance.

Nor are all valued chiefly because they are willing to do jobs that the people
here before them would not take.

In the conversations that followed our initial reports, many foreign-born St.
Louisans pointed out that they were succeeding in St. Louis -- by the standards
set by longtime residents. These new St. Louisans aren't content to simply live
better than they had in their old country.

They also are working to improve the neighborhoods they have moved into, while
preserving their cultural traditions. Immigrant-owned businesses catering to the
new arrivals are popping up continuously in urb an areas that the white and
black American middle class left behind in the exodus to the suburbs.

Not only for the entry level

Many immigrants and refugees fill entry-level jobs that employers find difficult
to fill during a booming economy. But others fill jobs that not enough
native-born Americans are capable of carrying out. Skilled foreign-born workers
are prized, especially in the booming information-technology business. They are
in such great demand that this year's annual quota of visas reserved for such
workers was used up months early.

Meanwhile, the St. Louis region is striving to become a center for
high-technology industries. Companies and regions that are leaders in the
economy's high-tech sector are assembling diverse work forces.

Preserving a balance

The challenge facing the region is to draw immigrants that boost the local
economy and neighborhoods -- without harming those of us who already are here.
Critics of the reliance on foreign-born technical workers say we should train
enough Americans to do the jobs instead.

Immigration lawyer Robert Cox said recipients of visas allowing them to work in
the United States aren't taking anyone's job.

Creating new jobs and opportunities

"We should want the creative, the industrious, the entrepreneurial people of the
world coming here," he said. "These people are the ones who make us wealthy."

Greg Sullivan's GA Sullivan software engineering firm in Maryland Heights always
has looked to "recruit the talent, wherever they come from," he said.

Today, GA Sullivan employs software engineers from India, Pakistan, the
Philippines, the United Kingdom and elsewhere.

Last week, Sullivan sent someone to recruit in Europe. Twice a year, the company
travels to India to find the people it needs to grow.

"Allowing these people to work ends up creating more opportunities for us,"
Sullivan said. "They are very enthusiastic and eager about working here.

"We have a much more energetic, dynamic and creative workplace when you have the
benefit of people from around the world. It's just more fun that way."

Sullivan has lobbied area politicians to loosen the federal limits keeping down
the number of skilled immigrant workers. He said they often reject his appeal,
stressing the need to train more Americans for high-paying, high-skill jobs.

"That's a reasonable concept," he said. "But the training had to begin 15 years
ago. This is not a 10-week program. This is about how you were educated
throughout your life."

The average foreign-born employee at Sullivan has at least a master's degree.
The countries that they hail from emphasize math education more effectively than
the United States does, particularly Ireland and India.

Unless the government allows more immigrants to enter the country, the nation's
companies might have to move their software-development centers overseas.

"They will force us to take the work to the talent," Sullivan said. "That will
take commerce out of the USA."

Not every company is as intent as Sullivan on helping potential employees gain
government permission to work in the United States. It can be an expensive and
time-consuming process, so many companies look to firms such as Kalpana
Parulkar's Gateway Infosys Services.

Parulkar, a native of India, draws on her connections to her homeland to bring
compatriots to work for clients in St. Louis. Parulkar said there now are at
least 30 companies such as hers serving as middlemen for companies that want
qualified workers from abroad.

"This was a good field to get into," she says. "It has been really phenomenal in
the last three years. There are not many people who can do these jobs."

Because of the Y2K problem, demand is as high as the supply of qualified workers
is low. The number of visas for these skilled workers rose temporarily to
215,000 from 65,000.

"Still, that was not enough," Parulkar said.

All the immigrants that Parulkar imports on behalf of companies here have at
least three years of experience. Some have worked in Europe, Japan and the
Middle East already to make the most of their abilities.

Upon arrival in St. Louis, they make from $ 40,000 to $ 80,000 a year.

"We should never restrict people with advanced degrees or with a certain number
of patents," said Cox, the immigration lawyer. "We don't seem to realize that
these legal restrictions have an adverse economic impact."

Immigrants -- educated and uneducated -- end up creating more jobs than they
take, Cox said. Ultimately, that has a positive effect on the economic fortunes
of the region as a whole.

"The rest of us ride the wave they create," Cox added.

In cities that have enjoyed a revival in recent years, he said, immigrants
always have figured prominently in the revitalization efforts.

Getting immigrants off to good starts

Many other new arrivals get started the old-fashioned, humble way.

One organization that helps to get new members of the population on their ways
to productive, comfortable lives is the International Institute of Metro St.
Louis. The organization has headquarters at 3800 Park Avenue, just south of the
St. Louis University Health Sciences Center. It has placed at least 1,000 people
in jobs in each of the last three years. The institute said that last year it
put 1,215 people in jobs that paid an average of $ 6.72 an hour.

Cesar Figari, employment coordinator for the institute, said the demand for
workers in a booming economy makes it relatively easy for immigrants and
refugees to get jobs. It also avoids the friction that arises when newcomers
compete for jobs that native-born people want.

"Some companies have a hard time finding people who work hard, are drug-free and
are family-oriented," Figari said. "That's what they find here."

While well-educated immigrants who possess special skills can move quickly into
well-paying jobs, those who come here with little knowledge of English and no
transferable skills usually end up working in factories, Figari said. The
institute deals with about 300 employers who regularly hire from its list of
available workers.

"They tend to need people for light manufacturing and assembly where the new
workers can learn a function without much English and then do it over and over,"
he said. "The less routine is the function at a job, the better the person's
command of English has to be. And it makes sense for employers to hire more than
one person, but to hire groups from one language group. The ones who learn
English the quickest and learn the jobs can rise to trainer-supervisor."

Semco Plastic Co. Inc., at 5301 Old Baumgartner Road in south St. Louis County,
is one of the area's largest employers of refugees. The company, established in
1944, makes molded plastics, such as patio furniture.

It has a payroll of 325 employees, 85 percent of whom are refugees, said Betsy
Steiner, Semco's human relations director. Steiner said the company hired eight
Albanian Kosovars who were flown here only a month ago.

Bosnians make up most of the refugee work force, although the company also hires
Vietnamese, Ethiopians, Iraqis and others. She said Semco is working with the
Bi-State Development Agency to try to arrange transportation for the newcomers,
many of whom don't have cars.

"They are excellent workers," Steiner said. "They are here and they have a good
work ethic. They get angry when we don't have overtime."

But to succeed, a company that employs newcomers in large numbers must know how
to organize them. Steiner said Semco learned quickly not to jumble Bosnians and
Croats, who are rivals back in the Balkans, on the same jobs. She said that the
translators on the payroll sometimes are made nervous by the tendency of
foreign-born workers to be blunt about workplace situations in their own
languages.

"Sometimes the translators will hear more in the native tongue than they want to
interpret for us," she said. "I've known of interpreters who have entered a
conversation and quickly walked away."

But once working groups are set up, production can move efficiently.  Steiner
said the separate groups of nationalities communicate among themselves during
work and stick to themselves during lunch and break times. She said the company
promotes from within the national groups to help supervise their own people.

"They can work their way up," she said.

Immigrants bring new life

Their industry also gives life to old neighborhoods.

Along a 3/4-mile stretch of Gravois Avenue near the Bevo Mill, Bosnians operate
and patronize eight businesses. Two of them, a bakery and a cafe, opened this
summer. Most are within easy walking distance of the 4300 block of Ellenwood
Avenue, where large numbers of Bosnian families live in several multiple-family
apartment buildings. That block is the center of the local refugee community.
Other families are scattered throughout the surrounding blocks.

The refugee commerce is reviving a stretch of Gravois that had been in steady
decline for the past decade. And if the Bosnians aren't flooding into the Bevo
for orders of hasenpfeffer, their presence has been a boon for other established
local businesses.

The best example is the Southern Commercial Bank branch across Gravois from the
Bevo. Southern Commercial, an old name on the city's South Side, opened the
branch in the former Bohemian Federal building in July 1990.

Steve Hrdlicka, a vice president at the branch, said business grew slowly during
the first half of the '90s. Then the International Institute of Metropolitan St.
Louis began settling Bosnian refugee families in the apartments nearby. The
families started coming by to open accounts and borrow money. The bank's policy
was to give a new family one small unsecured loan, then offer more only if the
terms of repayment were met.

Hrdlicka said many of the Bosnian families repaid ahead of schedule. Bad loans
were rare. Nowadays, he said, the Bosnian families represent about 25 percent of
the branch's business. The branch has a new sign outside that says, "Dobro
Dosli" -- Bosnian for welcome.

"The business has been excellent," Hrdlicka said. "They come in for small loans,
usually to buy furniture. A year later they have saved enough to buy a car, and
a year after that they have enough to buy a house. Because the kids usually
speak better English than do their parents, I've negotiated loans with
12-year-olds acting as interpreters. That's kind of weird, but it works.

"I feel more appreciation from some of these people after loaning them $ 1,500
than I ever have in my 15 years in the business," he said. "We Americans take so
much for granted."

The growth and assimilation goes beyond money changing. The branch has five
employees who are Bosnian refugees. The first was Jasna Mruckovski, 26, who was
hired as a teller in March 1996 and now is a loan officer trainee.

Hrdlicka hired her after her father, Halid Ajanovic, borrowed money for a car
and suggested that the bank consider his daughter, who already had studied
English and was working as a clerk at the J.C. Penney store at South County
Center. The bank saw an opportunity to help its growing trade.

Mruckovski now handles most of the Bosnian loan applications and doubles as a
translator for her American-born co-workers. Sometimes, they translate for her.

"I remember once when a lady came in and asked me to 'Xerox' a document for
her," Mruckovski said. "I know the name of the company and the machine, but I
didn't know what she was trying to say. Now I know."

Her understanding of American ways continues to grow. She and her husband,
Darko, have earned real-estate licenses. They bought a house nearby on
Eichelberger Street.

Immigrants helping other immigrants

Across Gravois from the bank is a customer who fits Hrdlicka's story of growth.
Alem Boric, 28, arrived in St. Louis in October 1995 and began working in a
battery factory. He learned some English and saw a need.

"Bosnian people had no place to buy newspapers, no place to get their CDs or
foods," he said. "I was sure this would be a good business, and it is good."

His Europa Market, at 5005 Gravois in the old Baby Heaven store, is almost two
years old and in its second location. He owns his two-story building, living in
one of the upstairs apartments and renting the other -- what many city business
people did in the old days.

Boric said his first loan from the bank was for $ 2,500. He now is negotiating a
large home-equity loan to remodel his building. He is working with City Hall to
get a subsidized canvas awning out front. Boric has four employees, including
one of his cousins, Jennita Musanovic, who moved here shortly after his store
opened in September 1997. Musanovic, 21, said the store and other Bosnian
businesses along Gravois do well because "Bosnians like to do things that are
close to their homes. They like to go and be with each other and have their
coffee and shop."

"To do American things, you need a car," she said.

Two blocks north from Europa is the Bosna Gold restaurant, 4640 Gravois, the
first of the businesses along the Bosnian strip and a thriving meeting place.
Next door is the Crvene Ruze Cafe Bar, which Bosna Gold's owners opened two
weeks ago.

Jim Eichelberger, a former St. Louis police officer who runs Eichelberger Realty
Co. at 5825 Gravois, noticed the growing Bosnian market and sponsored a soccer
team of Bosnian men. He hired Safata Sada Ovcina, a woman who is on the local
Bosnian radio show on Saturday, as a real-estate agent. He regularly contracts
with Husein Mulalic's Bosnia Co. Painting and Remodeling to work on the
apartments and houses he rents and sells.

Eichelberger said the Bosnian refugees have become a major part of what he calls
a revival of the housing market on the city's far South Side. He said the
refugees now account for almost 40 percent of his business.

"I think they are saving the neighborhood," Eichelberger said. "They want to buy
houses in this area. Five years ago, houses could sit on the market for 90 days
or more. It's a sellers' market now."

Eventually, assimilation

Eichelberger gets no argument from the local establishment. Alderman Steve
Gregali, D-14th Ward, and Betty Sanguinette, leader of the Bevo 2001
neighborhood organization, have helped to calm local jitters about the
neighborhood's future.

"I think the longtime residents see them as a stabilizing factor for the city,"
said Gregali. "The Bosnians are buying homes and taking pride in where they
live. A family moved in two doors from me, and they're always painting and
washing their cars. They barbecue in the back yard.

"Some already have become pretty typical South Siders."

LOAD-DATE: July 18, 1999

LANGUAGE: English

GRAPHIC: PHOTO Photo by RICH GLICKSTEIN / POST-DISPATCH Jennita Musanovic (left)
and customer Jasmine Dzafic examine a baseball cap in the Europa Market at 5005
Gravois. The market, owned by Alem Boric, caters to the Bosnian community in St.
Louis and carries everything from compact discs to fresh fruit.

                  Copyright 1999 St. Louis Post-Dispatch, Inc.


                              110 of 457 DOCUMENTS

                       St. Louis Post-Dispatch (Missouri)

                 July 18, 1999, Sunday, FIVE STAR LIFT EDITION

PATIENCE, DIVERSITY AND HARD WORK ADD UP TO PROSPERITY;
A SMALL LOCAL COMPANY CAN TEACH BIG LESSONS TO REGIONAL EMPLOYERS.

BYLINE: Tim O'Neil; Of The Post-Dispatch

SECTION: IMAGINE ST. LOUIS, Pg. B1

LENGTH: 899 words


* Triad Manufacturing builds displays for retail stores, and helps native-born
and immigrant workers build economic equity.

THE STORY OF TRIAD

Hussein Haid, a Somalian refugee, works with precision cuts of wood and a
hodgepodge of words.

Haid, 47, supervises two dozen Bosnian refugees on the production line at Triad
Manufacturing Co., a factory in north St. Louis that builds merchandise-display
furniture for clothing stores. They work amid the steady racket of
electric-powered saws, sanders and drills as they form cabinet parts from
particle board and aluminum.

Triad hired Haid three years ago, shortly after he arrived in St. Louis.  His
supervisors liked his work and promoted him to "lead man," a sub-foreman, 16
months ago after he learned enough English to communicate on the line. Because
Triad puts most of its newer Bosnian hires along the early stages of the
production line, many of Haid's crew members don't know much English.

So they mix words, expressions and gestures to move the work along.

"We speak all the languages," Haid said slowly but efficiently in a recent break
in production. "I know some Bosnian. Sometimes they use Som ali to me. And we
all speak some American."

While Triad earns recognition in the business world, it also has become one of
the handful of local companies that hire large numbers of new immigrants and
refugees. Jerry Vyskala, vice president and chief of the woodworking division,
said the company has 180 Bosnians, 30 Mexicans and a small numbers of other
foreign nationals on its payroll of 280 employees. Vyskala said the company is
delighted with the results.

"They are very good employees," he said of the newcomers. "Everyday they are
here. That's No. 1. If we need them to stay, there are no questions. They work
12 hours a day and ask for more overtime. They are handy people, good with
tools."

Rebk Muratovic, who is one of Haid's crewmen, moved here from Bosnia 2 1/2 years
ago. Muratovic, 29, is a good hand with a file. His English is coming along.

"When I started, I very little understand," he said. "We talk. We work good.
Sometimes we talk with our hands, arms, legs."

With most of the tasks being repetitious, a little communication usually goes a
long way.

But not always.

"One day a Bosnian and an American are working and the American says, 'Give me a
hand,'" Haid said. "The Bosnian came to me and said, 'Hussein, what does he
mean? Give me a hand? Does he want my hand?'"

Muratovic's co-workers have no such confusion when it comes to building cabinet
bottoms, which they pass to the crew that installs the vertical wood sections.
On the upstairs floor are welders, most of whom are native-born Americans, and
the polishers, most of them Mexicans, who make the metal parts for the cabinets.
A mix of nationalities work together in the final assembly area.

So go the 10-hour workdays at Triad in an old but spacious factory building at
4321 Semple Avenue, just north of the old General Motors Corp. complex. The
company, only 8 years old, made it last year to Inc. Magazine's list of the top
500 privately held companies. In 1997, Ernst & Young LLP named Triad president
David Caito one of its Master Entrepeneurs of the year.

The only thing the mix of workers don't do together is lunch. The Bosnians,
Mexicans and American-born workers usually eat among their own people.

Vyskala, the company vice president, understands the newcomers better than do
most bosses. A native of Moravia in the former Czechoslovakia, he said he and
his family came here in 1986 because of trouble with that country's communist
regime. Vyskala, 44, got a job here at a cabinet factory.

"I didn't know English. A Croat at the factory helped me out," he said. "I
remembered."

In 1992, he formed his own company, JCS Custom Woodwork, and quickly began doing
a lot of jobs for Triad. The companies merged in 1994 under Triad's flag.

It was Vyskala who tapped the Bosnian labor pool. He hired one Bosnian shortly
after he opened his own company, then hired more. The rest was easy.

"If we ever need an employee, we put out the word on the floor," he said. "The
next day, we have applicants."

Vyskala said about 30 of the 40 Bosnians he hired for JSC are still working with
Triad. Over the years, he said, he has learned enough Bosnian to communicate
even with most of the brand-new refugees.

As the refugees and immigrants at Triad learn English, the company often moves
them from $ 6-an-hour production jobs to more skilled and higher-paying tasks,
which pay up to $ 14 an hour. Redzo Hukic, who came here from Bosnia nine years
ago, followed that track to a job in the company's custom-order department.
Hukic, 46, works with American-born project managers who give him a customer's
plans and then let him go to work.

Among his projects have been building six pony-sized replicas of Budweiser beer
wagons for Anheuser-Busch Cos. Inc., which uses them to promote and sell caps,
shirts and other A-B merchandise.

Vyskala hired Hukic, who said he learned English by listening and talking to
co-workers and his former neighbors in south St. Louis. "My English is not real
good, but I understand," Hukic said. "I understand."

And he saved his money. Two years ago, Hukic took that trademark St. Louis step
toward success -- he bought a house in Affton and moved to the county.

LOAD-DATE: July 18, 1999

LANGUAGE: English

GRAPHIC: PHOTO Color PHOTOS BY RICH GLICKSTEIN / POST-DISPATCH
 (1) Suad Bajramvoic (left) waits Tuesday to clock out with the rest of his
shift at 4:30 p.m. The group of mostly Bosnian immigrants work at Triad
Manufacturing Co., at 4321 Semple Avenue in St. Louis. A large percentage of the
company's work force is made up of immigrants.
 (2) Hussein Haid and Smajic Ismet don't speak when they build fixtures
together. But they communicate using hand movements as they create the clothing
display fixtures that are a specialty product at Triad Manufacturing.

                  Copyright 1999 St. Louis Post-Dispatch, Inc.


                              111 of 457 DOCUMENTS

                       St. Louis Post-Dispatch (Missouri)

              February 9, 2000, Wednesday, FIVE STAR LIFT EDITION

HIGH-TECH INDUSTRY SEEKS EXPANSION OF PROGRAM TO HIRE MORE FOREIGNERS;
LEGISLATION WOULD INCREASE NUMBER OF VISAS GRANTED

BYLINE: The Associated Press

SECTION: NEWS, Pg. A11

LENGTH: 394 words

DATELINE: WASHINGTON


High-tech companies are desperate for skilled workers and are pushing Congress
to expand an immigration program that would let them hire more foreigners.

But labor groups say the foreign workers are unneeded and underpaid.

Two years ago, Congress temporarily expanded the program, increasing the number
of six-year visas to 115,000 a year, up from 65,000. But that has failed to
satisfy the high-tech industry's appetite.

The industry enjoys growing political clout, and lawmakers on both sides of the
political aisle are developing legislation to respond to the industry's demand.

Lobbyist Mary Dee Beall of Hewlett-Packard Co. in Palo Alto, Calif., said that
last year, her company had used the program to hire 200 of 7,800 new workers.
She said, "If we can't get the foreigners, we're not getting enough of the new
skills into the company."

The number of high-tech jobs nationwide grew to more than 4.8 million in 1998
from about 4 million in 1990, says the Bureau of Labor Statistics.

Republican Sens. Orrin Hatch of Utah, Phil Gramm of Texas and Spencer Abraham of
Michigan plan to introduce a bill as early as today to increase the number of
H-1B visas - six-year, temporary visas granted to foreigners with college
degrees. Although aides have refused to reveal details, Gramm has suggested
increasing the ceiling to 200,000 visas a year.

In the House, Rep. Zoe Lofgren, D-Calif., has proposed a new visa for
international college graduates in scientific fields who are paid at least $
60,000 per year.

President Bill Clinton's administration has yet to take a position. Under the
compromise of two years ago, the annual number of H-1B visas will drop to
107,500 on Oct. 1 and then back to 65,000 a year later.

Unions oppose the push for more visas. They contend that the move would limit
job opportunities for Americans and let employers keep wages low by paying the
foreigners below-market salaries.

"We have an abundance of well-educated college people," said Jack Golodner,
president of the AFL-CIO's Department of Professional Employees. "There are
industries that like to flood the market of our college graduates because they
want to keep the salaries from going up."

High-tech companies warn that if the legislation fails and the number of visas
drops to 65,000, their industry and the economy generally will suffer.

LOAD-DATE: February 9, 2000

LANGUAGE: English

                  Copyright 2000 St. Louis Post-Dispatch, Inc.


                              112 of 457 DOCUMENTS

                       St. Louis Post-Dispatch (Missouri)

                March 30, 2000, Thursday, FIVE STAR LIFT EDITION

IMMIGRANT WORKERS ALLEGE UNFAIR LABOR PRACTICES, CONTINUE 4-WEEK-OLD STRIKE;
COMPLAINTS INCLUDE LOW WAGES, TOO MUCH MANDATORY OVERTIME

BYLINE: Repps Hudson; Of The Post-Dispatch

SECTION: BUSINESS, Pg. C1

LENGTH: 1039 words


For nearly four weeks, about 40 immigrants from around the globe -- Poland,
Vietnam, Eritrea, the former Yugoslavia -- have braved the March chill to walk a
picket line at Packaging Concepts Inc., a family-owned company in south St.
Louis that makes bags for microwave popcorn.

The workers, on an unfair-labor-practices strike, are quick to say in broken
English that they are tired of working 12-hour days, six days a week.

"Not work like a dog," said one Vietnamese woman who was a bagger at Packaging
Concepts for less than two years. "Six day a week. No time for three children."


Her terse comments were echoed by others on the sidewalk picket line.

"I think the company exploits immigrants," said Bogdan Mirakowski, a strike
leader at the plant at 4971 Fyler Avenue, which has about 250 employees and
annual sales of about $ 25 million, according to Sorkins Directories Inc.

About one-fourth to one-third of the workforce is on strike, say organizers, and
the majority are Vietnamese.

When Mirakowski went on strike, the 50-year-old former organizer for Solidarity,
the anti-communist labor movement in his native Poland, earned $ 10.78 an hour.
He started at $ 4.50 an hour nearly 12 years ago.

"I feel they treat the immigrants different. Worse. They don't consider me an
American. They call me 'Pole,' " said Mirakowski .

Steve Snow, the company's chief financial officer, refused to speak to a
reporter this week. He referred questions to the company's lawyer, Mike
Lowenbaum, who did not return several phone calls. Lowenbaum faxed a statement
to the Post-Dispatch that said, in part: "Packaging Concepts has provided a full
health insurance plan and 401(k) with 15 percent matching program to its
employees; Packaging Concepts remains available to continue negotiations at any
time. ..."

With a growing immigrant community in the city, the labor situation at Packaging
Concepts could illustrate what happens when workers with limited
English-speaking abilities from many countries seek jobs at a factory or job
site that does not take the cultural differences of its work force int o
consideration.

"As a mediation case, it's fascinating," said Max Aud, the Federal Mediation and
Conciliation Service official who is assigned to the dispute. "It's like a time
capsule, of what bargaining was like in St. Louis in the 1920s. You have a
Vietnamese, a Bosnian and a Pole on the union's bargaining team."

What remains a mystery to some observers is why the workers, in a tight labor
market with 3 percent unemployment, don't just go elsewhere for jobs.

"I'm not doing this just for myself," said Mirakowski. "Many immigrants have no
other place to go."

Then he added: "I think we can win it."

Several strikers said they want to go back to their jobs, even though their
complaints include what they say are:

* Too much mandatory overtime.

* Low wages.

* A wage scale that appears to pay some people more than others regardless of
seniority.

* Unsafe work practices that have caused injuries, including one worker whose
middle finger was cut off last week.

* Elimination of sick days.

* Threats of losing their jobs if they report accidents or problems in the
workplace.

"The people there are very scared," said Rich Piglowski, business manager of
Teamsters Union Local 610. "I've been in the labor movement for 35 years. I've
never seen a situation like this. There are a large number of immigrants. So
many have horror stories."

Anna Crosslin, director of the International Institute that works with 250 to
300 area companies to find jobs for immigrants, stopped sending people to
Packaging Concepts about three years ago.

"My job placement officer told me that conditions there had deteriorated," said
Crosslin, whose organization places about 1,200 immigrants representing about 15
language groups in jobs each year.

Crosslin said the workers may still want to return to their jobs under improved
conditions because of a deep-seated fear of the unknown and an unawareness of
the job market's opportunities.

"The hard thing is getting through the barrier of fear that refugees have that
if they lose their job, they will not be able to find another," she said. "That
is not true today. Their world is limited by their knowledge base."

To Judi McLean Parks, a professor at Washington University's Olin School of
Business, the strikers' tenacity may be explained by profound cultural
differences in their expectations.

"They may see the company as part of their extended family," said McLean Parks,
a specialist in cross-cultural management issues. "In more collectivist cultures
than our individualistic culture, they may want to remain with the company to
make it better. . . . Or they may not see that they have many opportunities.
They may see themselves as trapped."

In a close vote in October 1998, plant workers certified Local 610 as its
bargaining unit. When the vote was taken, Piglowski said, the ballot was printed
in six languages: Vietnamese, Serbo-Croatian, Russian, Spanish, Polish and
English.

The strike has polarized workers at the plant, say the pickets and observers,
and has worsened contract talks between management and the bargaining unit that
have dragged on for a year.

So far, said Piglowski, talks have stalled and have not touched on such economic
issues as wages and hours.

For some employers who regularly hire immigrants with rough English skills,
there is little reason for these kind of problems to arise.

"We don't treat our immigrant work force any different than any other. We treat
every employee like we want to be treated," said Robert Leavitt, an executive in
a nonunion west St. Louis County manufacturing company. "When it comes to
disciplinary problems, we may sit down and talk informally with the immigrants
twice to be sure they understand a problem, while we may only talk with a
non-immigrant once."

Leavitt expressed shock that Packaging Concepts might be requiring its employees
to work 72 hours a week.

"Nobody ever works that kind of hours, not even our management," he said. "If we
have to do overtime week after week, we have a capacity problem and we have to
deal with it."

LOAD-DATE: March 30, 2000

LANGUAGE: English

GRAPHIC: PHOTO, MAP (1) Color Photo by JERRY NAUNHEIM JR. / POST-DISPATCH -
Tabetu Tekleab carries a protest sign while on strike at Packaging Concepts Inc.
Tekleab, who now lives in St. Louis, is originally from Eritrea, an east African
country that once was part of Ethiopia. Like Tekleab, other immigrants who work
there claim the company is engaging in unfair labor practices.
 (2) Map by POST-DISPATCH - Packaging Concepts Inc.

                  Copyright 2000 St. Louis Post-Dispatch, Inc.


                              113 of 457 DOCUMENTS

                       St. Louis Post-Dispatch (Missouri)

                 April 7, 2000, Friday, FIVE STAR LIFT EDITION

ANTI-IMMIGRATION GROUPS ASSAIL GEPHARDT OVER BILL;
COALITION TAKES OUT ADS IMPLORING LAWMAKER TO LIMIT FOREIGN HIGH-TECH WORKERS;
HE SAYS ADS DISTORT HIS RECORD

BYLINE: Jo; Mannies; Post-Dispatch Political Correspondent

SECTION: METRO, Pg. D1

LENGTH: 557 words


A coalition of anti-immigration groups is behind a barrage of local radio and
newspapers ads targeting House Minority Leader Richard A. Gephardt.

The ads, which included one published Wednesday in the Post-Dispatch, call on
Gephardt, D-St. Louis County, to oppose a pending congressional bill. That
measure would increase the number of high-tech foreign workers allowed into the
country under temporary three-year visas.

Gephardt contends the ads distort his voting record and misrepresent the bill.
The coalition behind the ads -- called the Coalition for the Future American
Worker -- says it is Gephardt who is distorting their cause.

"He's turned his back on his heritage," said coalition spokesman Roy Beck, who
also is president of Americans for Better Immigration, a Washington-based group
that is part of the coalition. Gephardt used to be a stronger critic of the visa
program, Beck said.

Other members of the anti-visa coalition include POP. STOP, a population
stabilization group; American Immigration Control; BrainSavers, an Internet
group for programmers; the Programmer's Guild; and the American Engineering
Association.

Beck characterized the groups as advocating less immigration to the United
States, generally for environmental or cultural reasons. They are opposing the
visa program, called H-1B, because they believe it reduces jobs available for
American high-tech workers, he said.

Beck contended that Gephardt was siding with the high-tech industry to woo
campaign contributions for Democratic candidates. Many in the industry have been
GOP donors, Beck said, citing former House Speaker Newt Gingrich's strong
support for the visa program.

Gephardt's spokesman angrily denied that donations had anything to do with
Gephardt's stand. In an interview in Washington, Gephardt said the bill was a
temporary measure to keep high-tech jobs from going overseas for good.

"My record on supporting workers and worker rights and helping working families
in this country is clear," he said. "I also believe that we shouldn't lose jobs
from this country if we can't produce the trained people to fill the jobs, and
that's what this is about."

Gephardt said he has met with St. Louis area business leaders in recent weeks,
and "at every one of the meetings, they say their biggest problem is they can't
fill the jobs that are there now."

Gephardt supports a version of the H-1B bill that requires corporations to
contribute to a training and education fund "so that we can produce the workers
in this country from our citizens who can fill these jobs." He emphasized that
the foreign workers allowed in would have to leave after three years.

Bob Kelley, head of the St. Louis Labor Council, said he had no objections to
the bill as long as the education and training provisions remained. The visas
would apply only to "highly educated, trained workers," he said.

But coalition spokesman Beck said the proposed corporation contributions were
too low - no more than $ 1,000 per visa issued. It costs more than that to
educate an American high-tech worker, he said.

Beck said his group wants Gephardt to support another H-1B version that imposes
stricter rules on companies seeking the visa.

Beck declined to say how much the ad campaign will cost nor would he identify
the donors paying for it.

LOAD-DATE: April 7, 2000

LANGUAGE: English

GRAPHIC: PHOTO Photo - This ad was placed in Wednesday's Post-Dispatch by a
coalition of anti-immigration groups.

                  Copyright 2000 St. Louis Post-Dispatch, Inc.


                              114 of 457 DOCUMENTS

                       St. Louis Post-Dispatch (Missouri)

               December 28, 1997, Sunday, FIVE STAR LIFT EDITION

AGENCY REJECTS LAWMAKERS' CONTENTION OF FARM LABOR SHORTAGE;
LEGISLATORS HAD WANTED RULES RELAXED FOR IMPORTING 'GUEST WORKERS'

BYLINE: New York Times News Service

SECTION: METRO, Pg. C6

LENGTH: 611 words

DATELINE: WASHINGTON


The General Accounting Office has thrown cold water on a campaign to allow more
foreign farm workers into the United States by concluding that there is no
national shortage of farm workers.

Several leading farm industry groups have been pressing to expand the number of
temporary work visas for so-called guest workers, arguing that some regions face
labor shortages.

Farm worker advocates are fighting the proposed legislation, asserting that
increasing the number of such guest workers would undercut the wages of field
laborers nationwide and weaken labor's efforts to organize them.

Congress asked the GAO to study whether there was a farm labor shortage after
GOP lawmakers introduced legislation to liberalize the guest-worker program.

In a draft of the GAO report made available by an opponent of the proposed
legislation, the agency backed the assertions of the United Farm Workers Union
and other farm worker advocates who insisted that there was no national labor
shortage.

The draft said, "A sudden widespread farm labor shortage requiring the
importation of large numbers of foreign workers is unlikely to occur in the near
future," though it acknowledged that shortages might exist for specific crops or
geographical areas.

Rejecting another argument made by farmers and ranchers, the draft added that
enforcement efforts by the Immigration and Naturalization Service were not
expected "to significantly reduce the aggregate supply of farm workers." Farmers
and ranchers fear that the new immigration r estrictions may work too well.

The GAO's final report is scheduled to be made public Wednesday.

Under the current farm guest-worker program, farm employers brought in 15,000
foreign workers last year, a tiny percentage of the estimated labor force of 2
million farm workers - about 40 percent of whom are illegal immigrants.

Work 2, 3 months

The guest workers typically work for two or three months on jobs ranging from
sheep herding to apple picking. A bill proposed by Sen. Gordon Smith, R-Ore.,
would allow 25,000 more guest workers each year.

Under the law, farmers who want to bring in guest workers must ask the Labor
Department to certify that no labor surplus exists in the farmer's region. In
addition, the farmer must make efforts to hire workers already in the United
States and must wait for the state job service to look for workers. Smith's
proposal would eliminate these requirements, making it far easier to import
workers. The Smith bill, like the current law, would require farmers to pay
guest workers the prevailing wage received by farm workers.

Bob L. Vice, former president of the California Farm Bureau Federation, told
Congress in September about an Orange County vegetable farmer who lost most of
his workers when immigration officials apprehended them as illegal aliens. Vice
said the farmer lost 60 acres of beans and 20 acres of cabbage, because the
local job service referred only three workers, though he had asked for 150.

But Dolores Huerta, secretary-treasurer of the United Farm Workers, strongly
denied that shortages existed. "There's definitely a surplus of farm workers,"
she said in a telephone interview. "That explains why there has been a drop in
farm-worker wages over the last 10 to 15 years. They have dropped wages
substantially, because they always know there's a large pool of workers they can
get."

The GAO said that, of the 20 large agricultural counties around the nation that
it surveyed last summer, 11 had unemployment rates more than twice the national
average of 5 percent, and 15 had jobless rates 2 percentage points higher than
the national rate.

LOAD-DATE: December 29, 1997

LANGUAGE: English

                  Copyright 1997 St. Louis Post-Dispatch, Inc.


                              115 of 457 DOCUMENTS

                       St. Louis Post-Dispatch (Missouri)

                July 5, 2000, Wednesday, FIVE STAR LIFT EDITION

MEXICO'S LEADER-TO-BE CALLS FOR EASING TENSION ALONG BORDER;
FOX ALSO LAYS OUT PLANS FOR REVAMPING JUSTICE SYSTEM;
BUT POVERTY WILL BE TOP PRIORITY

BYLINE: The Associated Press

SECTION: NEWS, Pg. A4

LENGTH: 747 words

DATELINE: MEXICO CITYMEXICO; NEW PRESIDENT; GOVERNMENT POLICY PLEDGE


Mexico's president-elect acknowledged Tuesday that both Mexican and U.S. border
and immigration policies have been flawed, and promised new, straight talk.

Opposition leader Vicente Fox, who won the presidential election Sunday, also
laid out sweeping plans for a new justice system, a more human rights-oriented
foreign policy and a multiparty Cabinet.

He pledged to eliminate the posturing and tension in U.S.-Mexican relations over
the two countries' border, where immigration-related incidents have sometimes
broken into violence in recent months.

"This situation isn't solving our problems for either of us," Fox told a news
conference in Mexico City. "It appears to me that both of us have lost sight of
the goal, because the United States' goal has been to put up walls, police and
soldiers to stop immigration. That can't work.

"Mexico's goal has been to open the escape valve, avoid its own responsibility
to create jobs here, allow 350,000 young people to cross the border each year
and wash its hands of responsibility," he added.

Fox proposed a long-range plan for development in Mexico - with the help of
local and foreign funding - while gradually opening the border. He said he would
make fighting poverty his first priority.

He added that he would try to advance the 1994 North American Free Trade
Agreement to cover labor and small businesses.

On oil policy, Fox said he would continue to cooperate with OPEC but his aim
would be to ensure prices do not go so high that they hurt Mexico's trading
partners such as the United States.

"It is certainly in Mexico's interest and it is an interest of mine to be close
to the oil producers, and to defend their interests, there's no doubt in that,"
he said.

And yet, "to have extraordinary oil prices only reduces world growth and the
growth of the countries we trade with. The impact of this could be more negative
in the sense of reducing trade, investment and the generation of jobs than the
direct benefits we get from better oil prices."

Mexico's federal government depends on oil sales for about a third of its
revenue.

Fox also announced plans to travel soon to Washington for talks with President
Bill Clinton, and said "the goal is to become true partners, true neighbors and
true friends."

Fox also promised changes in Mexico's foreign policy of strictly opposing
intervention - even by international organizations - in other countries'
domestic conflicts.

"We can't just limit ourselves to unrestricted respect for other countries'
decisions, without denouncing rights abuses or major crimes," Fox said.

One of Mexico's strongest policy differences with the United States has been
over relations with Cuba. Fox said he would maintain Mexico's "intense relations
with Cuba, and intensify them if possible."

He said he would invite Fidel Castro to his inauguration Dec. 1. But Fox
stressed that he wanted Cuba "to move toward democracy."

On drug trafficking, he called on the U.S. government to abandon the
"certification" of other countries' anti-drug efforts and instead join in a
regional anti-narcotics organization - an idea Fox said he had already discussed
with Colombia. "We can check on each other," he said.

Mexico earlier had rejected a Panamanian proposal for a hemispheric anti-drug
center.

Fox said he wanted to split police away from the prosecutors' offices that
currently run them. But he said he would not name a civilian to the Defense
Secretariat, asking: "Why should we break a tradition that has brought stability
to the country?"

Fox reiterated an offer to start talks with leftist Zapatista rebels in the
southern state of Chiapas and said he would consider withdrawing army troops
from pro-rebel areas once such talks were started.

He said he would treat his own National Action Party less as an instrument of
government than "a strict and severe judge" of his own actions, and suggested
that the country's congress should audit the executive branch.

Fox moved to avoid friction by promising to keep most government employees in
their jobs, replacing only Cabinet secretaries and most undersecretaries.

"The next two months will be the key," as he puts together a Cabinet that he
hopes will include parties other than his own, Fox said.

He said he was surprised by the "rapidness, stability and peace" with which
Mexico was emerging from 71 years of rule by the Institutional Revolutionary
Party but added, "I'm knocking on wood."

LOAD-DATE: July 21, 2000

LANGUAGE: English

GRAPHIC: PHOTO Color Photo from THE ASSOCIATED PRESS - A worker on Tuesday helps
lower a huge banner in Mexico City with the face of Francisco Labastida, the
losing presidential candidate of the Institutional Revolutionary Party.
Labastida lost to Vicente Fox on Sunday.

                  Copyright 2000 St. Louis Post-Dispatch, Inc.


                              116 of 457 DOCUMENTS

                       St. Louis Post-Dispatch (Missouri)

                July 5, 2000, Wednesday, FIVE STAR LIFT EDITION

FOX LAYS OUT PLANS FOR MEXICO'S JUSTICE SYSTEM, FOREIGN POLICY

SECTION: NEWS, Pg. A1

LENGTH: 64 words


Vicente Fox, president-elect of Mexico, acknowledged Tuesday that Mexican and
U.S. border and immigration policies have been flawed, and he promised new,
straight talk. Fox, the opposition leader who won the presidential election
Sunday, also laid out sweeping plans for a new justice system, a more human
rights-oriented foreign policy and a multiparty Cabinet.

WORLD, A4

LOAD-DATE: July 5, 2000

LANGUAGE: English

GRAPHIC: PHOTO Color Photo - A worker lowers a banner of losing presidential
candidate Francisco Labastida in Mexico City on Tuesday.

                  Copyright 2000 St. Louis Post-Dispatch, Inc.


                              117 of 457 DOCUMENTS

                       St. Louis Post-Dispatch (Missouri)

                 July 24, 2000, Monday, FIVE STAR LIFT EDITION

IMMIGRATION PROJECT HANDLES GROWING CASELOAD

BYLINE: Terry Hillig; Of The Post-Dispatch

SECTION: ST. CLAIR-MONROE POST, Pg. 4

LENGTH: 972 words

DATELINE: GRANITE CITYIMMIGRATION PROJECT; IMMIGRANTS; NON-PROFIT AGENCY


A nonprofit agency that provides legal services to immigrants is dealing with an
ever-growing workload.

The St. Louis metropolitan area, including the Metro East, is an increasingly
popular immigrant destination. That means more work for the Immigration Project
in Granite City, which serves most of Illinois south of Chicago.

The agency advises and represents clients like Rene Fernandez of Fairmont City
in immigration matters.

Fernandez says he had a good reason for leaving his native Guatemala a nd has
several compelling reasons for not wanting to return. With the Immigration
Project's help, he may not have to.

Fernandez left Guatemala 11 years ago while the country's long civil war was
still raging. He said he was an unwilling member of a gove rnment-organized
civil patrol unit.

"I was forced to do a lot of things I didn't want to do," he said.  Fernandez
came to the United States seeking political asylum, figuring he had made too
many enemies on both sides of the conflict. Although he entered the country
illegally, Fernandez has stayed and continues to seek permanent residency
status.

Now 37, he has been working for the same company in St. Louis for 10 years. He
supervises 10-15 other workers. He has a girlfriend and together they have two
sons, 7 and 2. The youngest has a heart problem that probably could not be
treated in Guatemala.

The children and their mother are U.S. citizens. Fernandez said the mother would
not let him move them to Guatemala and he does not want to leave them. "It would
be a moral problem because of my kids," he said.

Fernandez came to the United States in 1989, intending to settle in Florida, but
instead wound up in Fairmont City, where he quickly found work.

"I met The Immigration Project people and decided to stay," he said.

"My dream is to buy a house for my two kids and raise a family so they can go to
school and have a good life," Fernandez said.

Jim Fischer, an attorney with the Immigration Project, said Fernandez can't buy
a house because banks won't give him a loan while his residency status is in
question.

Fernandez's chances of obtaining political asylum are slim. Fischer said only
about 5 percent of political asylum requests are granted, and most are for
people who can show they were or likely would be victims of severe persecution
or torture in their homeland.

The wars are over in Central America, and immigrants from that region with
pending political asylum cases face an uphill battle, Fischer said.

Thousands of immigrants to downstate Illinois have been helped since the
Illinois Conference of Churches created an immigrant legal services unit in
1987. The conference and the immigration unit dissolved their ties in 1990. In
1994, the immigration organization split into separate agencies for northern
Illinois and the rest of the state.

Chester Moyer, officer in charge of the U.S. Immigration and Naturalization
Service office in St. Louis, said immigration to the metropolitan area,
including Metro East, has been increasing for years.

"Our applications have grown fourfold in the last 10 years," he said. "That's a
pretty fair indicator. Filings for temporary workers are way up. Traffic is up
at the airport."

Fischer said the Immigration Project's caseload has also increased steadily and
currently is at about 3,000, up from 500 its first year.

He said political asylum cases account for about 5 percent of that workload. A
large majority of cases involve applications for citizenship and family
reunification.

Most immigrants to the metropolitan area and an even larger majority of
immigrants to the Metro East are from Mexico, Fischer said. He said specific
figures are not available but the area's Hispanic population has increased
greatly in the last 10 to 20 years.

Suzanne Brown has been with the Immigration Project since its inception.  She
recently resigned as executive director - to devote more time to her family -
but remains acting executive director. She has a law practice in St. Louis.

Brown became involved with the program while working with refugees from El
Salvador during civil strife in that central American country. She represented
people in immigration proceedings for many years before earning her law degree
four years ago.

Immigration work "has been the most rewarding part of my work life," she said.

The agency's staff also includes Fischer, who works full time, and Daniel
Juarez, an immigrant from Peru who is Suzanne Brown's husband and director of
program services. Fischer and Juarez are both accredited to represent clients in
immigration proceedings.

Staff members travel around the state to meet with and represent clients who pay
for the services on a sliding scale based on income.

The agency held 60 informational forums around Illinois last year.

The Immigration Project depends on grants and contributions, in addition to
fees, to fund its activities. Brown said charitable contributions tend to go to
the agency that serves northern Illinois and it is a constant challenge to
attract and maintain adequate funding.

Although Fernandez is unlikely to be granted political asylum, Fischer said he
stands a good chance of gaining permanent residency status, perhaps within a few
weeks.

Fischer said immigrants who have been in the country for seven years or more may
qualify for suspension of deportation if they can demonstrate good moral
character and extreme hardship to themselves or a family member. Fernandez's bid
for such an exemption was the subject of a recent hearing and he awaits a
decision expected on Aug. 3.

=========

The Immigration Project Inc.

Founded: 1987

Acting executive director: Suzanne Brown

Address: 1320 Niedringhaus Avenue, Granite City

Telephone: 452-7018

LOAD-DATE: July 25, 2000

LANGUAGE: English

GRAPHIC: PHOTO Photo by ODELL MITCHELL JR. /POST-DISPATCH - Sejal Patel of
Granite City talks with James Fischer of the Immigration Project about what
documents she has to have for her husband's application to come to the United
States.

                  Copyright 2000 St. Louis Post-Dispatch, Inc.


                              118 of 457 DOCUMENTS

                       St. Louis Post-Dispatch (Missouri)

                 July 28, 2000, Friday, FIVE STAR LIFT EDITION

INS SHOULD UNDERSTAND HOSTAGE TAKING

BYLINE: Angie O'GormanOPINION; VIEWPOINT; IMMIGRATION POLICY

SECTION: EDITORIAL, Pg. C17

LENGTH: 729 words



IMMIGRATION

Archbishop Patrick Flores, leader of the Roman Catholic Church in San Antonio,
Texas, met a member of his flock the other day. Nelson Antonio Escolero --
Salvadoran, husband and father, long-time lawful permanent resident of the
United States -- took advantage of Flores' open door policy and held the
archbishop hostage for nine hours.

What did Escolero want? Someone, anyone, to cut through the punitive
labyrinthine bureaucracy of the Immigration and Naturalization Service. He
needed information about his immigration status and had not been able to get it
through normal channels.

Now, I am a Roman Catholic, and I know taking hostages is wrong, and I know that
this is no way to treat an archbishop. But I find myself sympathetic to Escolero
whose own life had been taken hostage by the INS itself.

What drove Escolero to this seemingly irresponsible act?

My mind turns to some of my own immigrant clients, and I experience again what
it feels like to be taken hostage by a government agency that holds your life in
its hands and systematically destroys it. I think of Raul Rivero, a Cuban
married to a U.S. citizen since 1988. Raul helped raise his wife's five children
by a previous marriage and provided a stable, healthy environment for the family
for 11 years before being detained by INS in 1997. In the meantime, the theft
for which he had served two years in Arizona state custody had become newly
defined in 1996 as a deportable offense. So when Raul applied for his permanent
residence in 1997, he was arrested by INS officers and transferred to a
Louisiana jail -- although his legal representative was in St. Louis. He waits
there still for a decision on applications he filed in 1997, 1998 and 1999.
Meanwhile his family is homeless, losing their house to missed mortgage
payments.

I think of Matthew, a 55-year-old blind, diabetic Nigerian. Because of his
marriage to a U.S. citizen he visited the local INS office to file papers to
become a permanent resident. Matthew was arrested and detained because he had
missed a hearing 10 or so years ago in New York. Matthew has no criminal history
but still sits in the Warren County jail awaiting a hearing with the immigration
judge.

I think of Helen, a U.S. citizen married for five years to Ignacio, an
undocumented Mexican worker. The couple has two children and was expecting their
third within a month when Ignacio was deported. Ignacio was the breadwinner of
the household. Helen, brain injured from a car accident, cannot hold a full-time
job. She will never be able to earn enough to enable Ignacio to re-enter the
United States with a "green card."

Missouri is littered with broken families, many now on welfare, whose husbands,
wives, fathers and mothers have been deported. To be an immigrant in the year
2000 in the United States of America -- or to be the spouse or child of an
immigrant -- is to be disposable.

Escolero, and thousands like him, are pawns in the economic and political
gambits of Congress that legalized abuse toward immigrants through a spasm of
anti-immigrant legislation. INS interprets those laws in as draconian a way as
possible. Meanwhile, individual immigrants wait years for decisions on
applications because deportations are the priority and so goes the money for
personnel. As a nation, we don't pay much attention to systemic irresponsibility
-- irresponsibility by those holding power over our lives. So intent are we on
holding individuals responsible for their lives that we deny the systematic
abuse by authorities with far greater power than the individual.

Archbishop Flores understands immigration law and has spoken out against its
impact. He, more than most of us, knows the desperation that led to his own
taking. Escolero chose well for his act of defiance against abusive power. He
wanted his own life back; to know what his immigration status was. He chose to
strike where it was safe, a pastor known for understanding the plight of
immigrants.

Archbishop Flores is in a unique position to minister both to Escolero and the
INS. Neither is innocent. But one is powerless. The other wields nearly
unlimited power over thousands of lives. The INS too should be held accountable
for taking hostage the lives of innumerable immigrants. Escolero gave Flores a
unique opportunity for pastoral action.

LOAD-DATE: July 28, 2000

LANGUAGE: English

TYPE: Commentary Column

                  Copyright 2000 St. Louis Post-Dispatch, Inc.


                              119 of 457 DOCUMENTS

                       St. Louis Post-Dispatch (Missouri)

                 July 8, 2000, Saturday, FIVE STAR LIFT EDITION

POST-DISPATCH AD CHECKAD CHECK SERIES;
PART OF AN ONGOING SERIES.

BYLINE: Ken LeiserPOLITICAL ADVERTISING; CAMPAIGN ADS; CAMPAIGN 2000; ATTACKS
PROPAGANDA

SECTION: NEWS, Pg. 7

LENGTH: 376 words



The candidate: Missouri Sen. Franc Flotron, R-Chesterfield

The targets: Former St. Louis County Executive Gene McNary, Republican; Missouri
Rep. Todd Akin, R-Town and Country

Ad: The 30-second television spot debuted Wednesday and marks the first negative
ad in the 2nd Congressional District primary campaign. It's an unusual
two-for-one attack ad, as well. First, the narrator criticizes McNary for trying
to raise property, sales and income taxes while county executive. The ad also
alleged McNary "made millions selling visas to foreigners" after serving under
President George Bush as Immigration and Naturalization Service commissioner.
Then it accuses Akin of seeking a seat in the U.S. House of Representatives to
make more money. The allegations are set against newspaper headlines. It credits
Flotron with reforming the Missouri Department of Revenue and promising he'll
overhaul the IRS.

Aim: To portray Flotron as a friend of the taxpayer while raising questions
about the fiscal restraint of GOP opponent McNary and the motives of Akin.

Accuracy: - McNary's tax record is a mixed bag. While he supported some regional
tax proposals and project-specific bond measures - some of which were defeated
by voters - the county's total property tax rate during his tenure as county did
not go up. The reference to selling visas refers to McNary's work on the INS
investor visa program, in which foreign investors could obtain green cards by
making investments that created jobs. After leaving the INS, McNary entered
private legal practice and helped match investors with potential investments.
McNary won't disclose how much money he made, but claims it was not the $ 4
million to $ 5 million that has appeared in published reports. The reference to
Akin stemmed from remarks he reportedly made at a March forum in Maryland
Heights, according to Flotron's web site. Akin says his comment - that the
relative low pay for service in the Missouri Legislature made service
challenging - was taken out of context. He denies saying he was seeking the
congressional seat to boost his income. Flotron, meantime, sponsored a bill that
shifted the burden of proof in taxpayer disputes from the taxpayer to the
Missouri Department of Revenue.

LOAD-DATE: July 8, 2000

LANGUAGE: English

GRAPHIC: PHOTO Photo Headshot - (State Sen. Franc Flotron)

                  Copyright 2000 St. Louis Post-Dispatch, Inc.


                              120 of 457 DOCUMENTS

                       St. Louis Post-Dispatch (Missouri)

               January 8, 1998, Thursday, FIVE STAR LIFT EDITION

SAIPAN BUILDS A BOOM ON LOOPHOLE, LOW PAY;
CONGRESS CONSIDERS LIFTING EXEMPTION FROM WAGE LAWS;
GOVERNOR FINDS ALLIES IN GOP

BYLINE: Charles J. Hanley; The Associated Press

SECTION: NEWS, Pg. A9

LENGTH: 1258 words

DATELINE: SAIPAN, NORTHERN MARIANA ISLANDS


This remote U.S. territory, a tropical isle in the Pacific Ocean, has taken
advantage of a loophole in the immigration laws and made itself over in one
short decade.

Probably 40,000 foreigners - double the number of locally born workers - staff
the garment factories, hotels, nightclubs and construction sites that power the
economy of Saipan.

The garment workers, often Chinese, make clothes proudly labeled "Made in
U.S.A." and sold in trend-setting U.S. stores. The value of their products is
approaching $ 1 billion a year.

But to people like Bijoy Krisno Kundu, Saipan's loophole feels more like a
noose.

"I am lost, completely lost," said the young man from Bangladesh, who came to
the island seeking a livelihood but ended up penniless.

These Chinese and Filipinos, Bangladeshis and Thais - brought in thanks to a
loose, locally run provision in the U.S. immigration system - are low-paid and
even then often shortchanged. Sometimes they are mistreated and in cases like
Kundu's, left without promised jobs.

"And the U.S. government cannot do anything for us," lamented one of Kundu's
countrymen, Hafiz Ur Rahaman.

But it may be about to.

Saipan's labor scene prompted President Bill Clinton to write Gov. Froilan C.
Tenorio in May to complain that some local practices "are inconsistent with our
country's values."

The Clinton administration's concerns extend beyond workers' rights to the
dollars-and-cents politics of trade.

Producers on the U.S. mainland are looking for political help to stop Saipan's
exports of its low-priced garments, made with Chinese labor and materials.

The U.S. Congress this year will consider legislation to lift Saipan's autonomy
on immigration and gradually increase the minimum hourly wage from the local $
3.05 to the federal $ 5.15.

The combative Tenorio has won support for his labor approach from conservative
Republicans in Congress. But his days as governor are numbered - he will leave
office Monday. He contends that the man who defeated him in November's election,
Pedro Tenorio, a distant relative, will "let Washington walk all over him."

Becoming a commonwealth

The roots of confrontation go back to the 1970s. That's when the Northern
Marianas, seized by America from Japan in World War II, negotiated a
commonwealth relationship with the United States that left control of
immigration and minimum wages in local hands. It also exempted Saipan's exports
from U.S. duties and quotas.

The commonwealth covenant, which took effect in 1986, touched off a
minirevolution in the Northern Marianas, an arc of islands 1,500 miles southeast
of Tokyo.

Saipan, home to 90 percent of the Northern Marianas' people, had long languished
undeveloped under direct U.S. rule. It was a sleepy, 13-mile-long sugar cane
island fringed with poinsettia and modest hotels.

Today, Beach Road is thick with traffic and fumes, lined with sleek duty-free
malls and high-rise resorts - and dotted with the corrugated-metal shells of
garment factories.

Mostly owned by mainland Chinese and South Korean enterprises, the 30-plus
apparel plants have combined with tourism to produce a remarkable s tatistic:
Business gross receipts for the Northern Marianas grew from $ 224 million in
1985 to $ 2 billion in 1996.

The cheap labor that built this boom is flown in daily by jetliner to an
"America" where their hopes often quickly die in muddy back lanes.

Like many other Bangladeshis, Kundu, 23, paid $ 5,000 to a Saipan-based
Bangladeshi broker who flew him here with promises of a $ 1,000-a-month job as a
security guard.

"For three months I worked, and they didn't pay me. Then I decided, 'No more,' "
Kundu said. "I sold my land and borrowed from relatives to get here. How can I
pay them back?"

Paychecks bounce, jobs vanish, employers escape scrutiny by changing company
names. It's a common story among dozens of Bangladeshis packed into tumbledown
houses scattered across Saipan, often sleeping four or five to a dingy
12-by-12-foot room, a couple of dozen sharing a single toilet and bath. Foreign
workers in Saipan are barred from moving elsewhere in the United States.

Officials suspect brokers and employers, especially fly-by-night security
companies, import too much labor for too few jobs and split the fees paid by job
seekers.

"It's foreigners and some locals who make money from the misery of people," said
Nancy J. Gottfried, an assistant Saipan attorney general.

She and others said the local government is making slow progress, with limited
resources, in cracking down on labor abuses. But problems clearly remain.

Federal inspectors have found hundreds of health and safety violations in
workplaces and dormitories throughout the island. Reports persist of sexual
abuse, withholding of wages and other harassment of foreigners who are
effectively indentured to single employers by one-year work permits.

The most vulnerable may be uncounted thousands of illegal aliens, who have
overstayed work permits and face deportation at an employer's whim. Welfare
families among the 20,000 native islanders, the Chamorros, have even been found
to be employing Filipino "illegals" as maids at poverty wages.

But Washington's focus falls most heavily on the relatively better-organized
garment industry, which supplies millions of pieces of clothing for the Gap, Liz
Claiborne and a dozen other made-in-USA labels.

Many workers from China

Most garment workers are mainland Chinese brought in for a year. According to
the U.S. Interior Department, some are housed in closely controlled barracks,
often after signing agreements forbidding them to engage in political or
religious activity while here, or even to fall in love.

Whatever the restrictions, $ 3.05 an hour beats the rock-bottom pay the workers
would get in China. And for their employers, it beats the $ 5.15 minimum their
competitors must pay workers in the United States.

"The garment industry is a scam," Allen P. Stayman, the U.S. Interior
Department's director for Saipan and other U.S. islands, said in a telephone
interview from his office in Washington.

Stayman, point man in the Clinton administration's campaign to change t hings in
Saipan, said the wage and import exemptions were originally written into the
commonwealth accord to create jobs for the Chamorros, who are U.S. citizens.

"They've totally scammed this program by bringing in communist Chinese materials
and people to make these products," he said.

Industry leaders say higher wages would kill the Saipan economy.

"It would be devastating," said James Lin, a Taiwanese whose United
International Corp. is considered a model local plant. "If we shut down here,
we'll move to Mexico."

Congressional hearings are expected early this year on the latest threat to
Saipan's lucrative loophole - a Clinton administration proposal to phase in the
U.S. minimum wage and federal immigration controls in the Northern Marianas.

"The Democrats in the United States don't believe in the open market,"
complained the outgoing governor.

Tenorio has won Republican support by sponsoring a series of fact-finding trips,
bringing more than 50 GOP congressional staff members, conservative scholars and
a few congressmen to Saipan's beach hotels. His aides say the visits were paid
for by the "governor's discretionary fund."

Meanwhile, Clinton's administration is counting on the new governor for help.

"We don't need a confrontation," the governor-to-be, Pedro Tenorio, said in an
interview.

LOAD-DATE: January 8, 1998

LANGUAGE: English

GRAPHIC: PHOTO, GRAPHIC, MAP, (1) Color Photo from THE ASSOCIATED PRESS -
Employees work at their sewing machines on the main assembly floor of the United
International Corp. garment plant in Saipan last month. Clothes from this
factory and others on Saipan are "Made in U.S.A." and sold under the Gap, Liz
Claiborne and other labels.
 (2) Color Graphic / Chart from AP / J. Axamethy - Labor loophole
 Exports from Saipan to the United States have risen dramatically with the use
of cheap foreign labor. With expanding production, Saipan has also had a
population boom. A look at the increase in population and garment production.
 (3) Color Map from AP / J. Axamethy - Northern Mariana Islands
 Source: Department of Commerce; AP research

                  Copyright 1998 St. Louis Post-Dispatch, Inc.


                              121 of 457 DOCUMENTS

                       St. Louis Post-Dispatch (Missouri)

                  May 10, 1998, Sunday, FIVE STAR LIFT EDITION

GIVE LEGAL IMMIGRANTS A HAND

SECTION: EDITORIAL, Pg. B2

LENGTH: 477 words



FOOD STAMPS

Those of us who are legal immigrants to the United States work, pay taxes, help
out in the community. In return, we can go to school and use the streets and
parks and libraries.

We enjoy the benefits of this abundant society whether our families trek ked
across the Siberia-to-Alaska land bridge millennia ago, sailed across an ocean
in the last 400 years, or stepped out of an airplane yesterday.

In this abundant society built and enriched by immigrants, the Golden Rule
applies. When one of us is down on our luck and needs help putting food on the
table, the rest of us are willing to help.

But these days we're only willing to give a hand to legal immigrants who can
vote. To those who aren't citizens, we give the back of our hand.

Among other shortcomings, the 1996 welfare reform bill cut off help to legal
immigrants. Fortunately, President Bill Clinton and congressional leaders have
seen the error of this callous disregard.

Last year, Congress restored eligibility for supplemental security inco me -
that SSI deduction on the paychecks of citizens and legal immigrants alike - to
elderly, disabled and child legal immigrants.

This year, Congress is working on restoring food stamp eligibility to this same
group of legal immigrants, as part of an agreement between the executive and
legislative branches in last year's balanced-budget deal. That will help 270,000
people who need food stamps now, or about one-third of those who lost them in
1996.

The Missouri Department of Social Services has budgeted $ 1.2 million a year to
provide food and nutrition assistance to 1,800 legal immigrants, mostly older
people. The State and Local Coalition on Immigration estimates that Missouri has
4,600 legal immigrants who lost food stamp eligibility. Illinois - with
immigrant-rich Chicago - has about 38,000 legal immigrants in the same fix.

The food-stamp provision is included in the Agriculture Research, Extension and
Education Reform Act of 1997, written by Sen. Richard Lugar, R-Ind. The bill
sets aside $ 818 million over the next five years to restore the food stamps.
The money will come from $ 1.75 billion in savings from food stamp
administration.

A House-Senate conference committee has approved the bill, which now awaits
final action by each chamber. Senate Majority Leader Trent Lott, R-Miss., has
been holding up the bill. He'd like to redirect the money to build highways. Let
him find that money somewhere else, if he can make the case for spending it.

The Senate is expected to take up the agriculture bill on Monday or Tuesday.
When it does, it should pass it. And it should move along with President
Clinton's proposal to restore food-stamp eligibility to most legal immigrants,
which his 1999 budget estimates will require $ 2.5 billion over five years.

We owe it to each other.

LOAD-DATE: May 10, 1998

LANGUAGE: English

                  Copyright 1998 St. Louis Post-Dispatch, Inc.


                              122 of 457 DOCUMENTS

                       St. Louis Post-Dispatch (Missouri)

                 May 24, 1998, Sunday, EARLY FIVE STAR EDITION

NATION

BYLINE: From News Services

SECTION: NEWS, Pg. A8, NATION BRIEFS COLUMN

LENGTH: 857 words



GOP lawmakers join effort to restore food stamps

House Republican leaders were rebuffed Friday in their efforts to prevent the
restoration of food stamps to legal immigrants when nearly half their own GOP
members joined Democrats in rejecting the attempt. By a 289-120 vote, the House
rejected an effort by Rep. Gerald Solomon, R-N.Y., to strip the food stamp
provisions out of a wide-ranging $ 1.9 billion agriculture bill that also
guarantees crop insurance to thousands of farmers and pays for agriculture
research. Final action on the overall bill - which passed the Senate 92-8 last
month and is backed by President Bill Clinton - will occur after Congress'
Memorial Day recess.

Trucker is victim of road-rage shooting in Florida

A truck driver stuck without exact change in a toll-booth lane was shot and
killed in Orlando, Fla., by an angry motorist in an apparent case of road rage,
police said Saturday. "I can't believe he shot me," the truck driver told
motorists who stopped to give him first aid after the shooting, according to
police reports. The trucker, who was not identified, died about an hour after
being airlifted to the Orlando Regional Medical Center, police said. The trouble
began when the driver of a tractor-trailer blocked the toll booth on the Central
Florida GreeneWay. When the driver of a late-model Chevy Blazer began honking
his horn, the truck driver got out and the two exchanged words, police said. The
motorist, who witnesses said was young and had two male passengers with him,
then shot the driver and sped off.

Air traffic plan will jeopardize safety, union charges

A technicians' union wants to delay next year's start of a $ 1 billion air
traffic control system, saying it will jeopardize traveler safety, The New York
Times reported Saturday. The Professional Airways Systems Specialists said the
new system lacked the alarms and monitoring features to give warnings when it is
beginning to fail. Current technology sounds alarms and lights if there is a
glitch that drops an airplane from a controller's screen. The union said the new
system doesn't do that; a controller has to keep constant watch. The system is
slated to begin in March 1999 at the Ronald Reagan National Airport in
Washington, with later installations likely in New York and Dallas.

LA officials find second child's body in forest grave

Nearly three months after the beaten body of a 5-year-old boy was found in the
Angeles National Forest, investigators in Los Angeles opened another forest
grave and discovered a body believed to be his sister. The children were among
14 believed to have been fathered by Marco Barragon with two sisters, Petra and
Juana Barrera. Barragon and Juana Barrera, the dead boy's aunt, were arrested
after his body was found. Petra Barrera, 35, was held Friday for investigation
of being an accomplice in her 2-year-old daughter's death. The daughter's body,
possibly buried since September, was found Thursday, police said. Barragon, 34,
is being held on $ 1 million bail. He pleaded innocent to murder and child abuse
in the death of the 5-year-old boy, Ernesto Barrera, who was beaten to death.
Juana Barrera, 28, pleaded innocent to child abuse and to being an accomplice in
Ernesto's death. She is being held on $ 500,000 bail. A detective said Barragon
apparently was responsible for both deaths.

Hospital balks at providing an emergency abortion

A New Hampshire hospital balked at allowing a woman in need of an emergency
abortion to have the procedure, forcing her to be driven 80 miles to another
hospital, the Boston Globe reported Saturday. Dr. Wayne Goldner told the
newspaper that he was forced to send the woman, 35, to Dartmouth-Hitchcock
Medical Center in Hanover, N.H., Friday after her water broke at 14 weeks. He
said Elliot Hospital in Manchester, N.H., refused to allow him to perform an
abortion. Elliot is owned by Optima Health Care, which recently merged with with
a Catholic facility. "The patient had no car so she couldn't make it to Hanover"
on her own, Goldner told The Globe. He called the action a "deplorable" policy
by a Catholic hospital. A hospital spokeswoman disputed Goldner's account,
telling the newspaper the doctor did not give the hospital staff a chance to
review whether the case met its new abortion guidelines, which require that,
even in the case of medically necessary abortions, the fetus must have no
potential for viability.

Mosquito population may be booming this summer

Americans could be in for a population explosion this summer - among mosquitoes.
Scientists expect the flying pests to be unusually numerous in many parts of the
country because of the El Nino weather phenomenon. The insects did not die as
usual during the winter due to mild temperatures, and they have taken advantage
of the large amount of rainfall to reproduce. "Any time you have a warm, wet
winter, you have to be concerned," U.S. Agriculture Department research
entomologist Tim Lockley said. Mosquito eggs hatch only in water, and some eggs
can survive as long as three years waiting for rain, scientists said.

LOAD-DATE: May 27, 1998

LANGUAGE: English

GRAPHIC: PHOTO Photo by the Associated Press - Washington Monument reopens -
Joggers pass the Washington Monument in the nation's capital on Saturday. The
structure reopened to tourists on Friday after being closed since January for $
1.5 million in renovations.

                  Copyright 1998 St. Louis Post-Dispatch, Inc.


                              123 of 457 DOCUMENTS

                       St. Louis Post-Dispatch (Missouri)

                 June 22, 1998, Monday, FIVE STAR LIFT EDITION

U.S., MEXICAN LAWMAKERS CLASH OVER IMMIGRATION, BORDER ISSUES

BYLINE: Reuters News Service

SECTION: NEWS, Pg. A7

LENGTH: 192 words

DATELINE: MORELIA, MEXICO


Talks between U.S. and Mexican legislators have ended, with differences
unresolved over U.S. immigration policies and perceived intervention south of
the border.

U.S. officials at the annual parliamentary meeting between the two nations that
ended late Saturday said U.S. policy on immigration was unlikely to change.

They rejected Mexican charges that last month's U.S. sting operation, which
netted dozens of Mexican bankers accused of laundering drug money, had violated
Mexico's sovereignty.

"In issues like immigration, the Mexican position was clear and the North
American explanations were also very clear," the head of the Mexican delegation,
Deputy Julio Faesler, said.

Arizona Republican Rep. Jim Kolbe told reporters that he did not think the U.S.
Congress would modify its documented-workers policy.

He was responding to Mexican pleas for improved conditions for the thousands of
Mexicans who cross the border to work in the United States.

During the weekend talks, legislators from both nations recognized that the
bilateral relationship had deteriorated in recent months and called for
continuing cooperation.

LOAD-DATE: June 22, 1998

LANGUAGE: English

                  Copyright 1998 St. Louis Post-Dispatch, Inc.


                              124 of 457 DOCUMENTS

                       St. Louis Post-Dispatch (Missouri)

                 July 7, 1998, Tuesday, FIVE STAR LIFT EDITION

INJUSTICE IN IMMIGRATION LAW

BYLINE: Angie O'Gorman

SECTION: EDITORIAL, Pg. B7, COMMENTARY COLUMN

LENGTH: 897 words


The June 11 article,"Iraqi rapist here fears deportation will mean execution,"
described the plight of Mohammed Sultan, an Iraqi refugee whose plea bargain has
endangered his life. The case has more to teach us about the problematic
relationship between our criminal justice and immigration systems than it does
about Sultan's guilt or innocence.

Lesson one is that no one in either system is required to inform an immigrant
about the effects of a plea bargain on their immigration status.

Sultan entered the United States in 1992 as a refugee from Iraq after deserting
Saddam Hussein's army in Kuwait for reasons of conscience. Eventually he met a
woman in St. Louis with whom he began a relationship. They had been sexually
active together for nine months when the events that led to his conviction for
rape occurred.

The record indicates Sultan told his attorney that his girl friend consented to
having sex that night after initially saying no. She says she was clear that she
did not want to have sex.

In theory, a jury trial is the place where all this gets sorted out.  Instead
the process shorted out when Sultan's attorney advised him to plead guilty
rather than go to trial. This is the familiar plea bargain, the oil that keeps
the criminal justice system humming at an efficient speed.

The plea bargain is not just about guilt or innocence. It is about saving time
and money and is coercive in its essence unless the defendant fully understands
what he is pleading to and what the expected outcomes are. If Sultan pleaded
guilty and saved everyone the cost and effort of a trial, he would get
probation. Case closed.

Without knowing the legal definition of rape or that his conviction would result
in his being automatically subject to deportation, Sultan plea ded guilty as his
attorney had advised. The transcript of his hearing reads like an Abbott and
Costello script with Sultan, absent the help of a translator, answering
questions he clearly did not understand.

His plea and the consequent conviction sealed his deportability from the United
States. Sultan had bargained away his safety without knowing what he was doing.
He knew he would be executed as a deserter if he returned to Iraq. Would he have
accepted the plea bargain if knew deportation, not probation, was the final
outcome?

State law does not require a trial court to advise non-citizen defendants about
the deportation consequences of their pleas or convictions. Deportation is
considered to be neither punishment nor double jeopardy. It is a civil matter -
a mere decision not to further extend our hospitality to the immigrant.

In his June 9 decision denying Sultan's motion to set aside judgment of
conviction and withdraw his guilty plea, Judge Robert S. Cohen appeared to
assert that criminal attorneys representing non-citizens cannot reasonably be
expected to advise clients about the deportation consequences of their pleas or
convictions. Why not?

What is unreasonable about expecting an attorney, and the court for that matter,
to take the time to explain the ramifications of a plea on immigration status?

Why is it unreasonable to expect prosecutors, attorneys and the court to know
the effects of a plea bargain on an immigrant's status in the United States?

Would it not have made a difference in Sultan's decision to forgo a jury trial
if he knew he was pleading his own death sentence? How can an immigrant make a
"knowing, intelligent and voluntary" plea, as Missouri law requires, without
essential information about its consequences. The criminal justice system has
abdicated responsibility on this element of basic justice.

Nor is there any mechanism in Immigration Court to undo the damage.  Sultan's
conviction made him ineligible for everything but a discretionary waiver of
deportation for humanitarian purposes. - adjudicated without reference to the
underlying facts of his conviction.

In applying for a waiver, Sultan filed evidence from the State Department
showing that military deserters are routinely executed in Iraq. The immigration
judge found that such punishment was prosecution not persecution and thus not a
concern of the court. Sultan's conviction for rape made him a risk to society.
She denied his application.

Sultan appealed to the Board of Immigration Appeals, which is also bar red from
looking at the facts underlying the conviction. Despite the Justice Department
report on the treatment of deserters, the board found there was no "undue
hardship" to Sultan if he had to return to Iraq, only "inconvenience." In fact,
the board found a further negative factor. Sultan "has been a recipient of . . .
food stamps."

The board did not address Sultan's argument that his life was his primary equity
and the loss of it, a clear hardship.

There is no further appeal for Sultan within the immigration system. Final
orders of deportation are protected from the review of federal courts.

From the moment Sultan entered the justice system he was denied the one thing he
needed most, a serious exploration of the facts surrounding the alleged rape. It
is not too late to correct that error. All it takes is one person within the
system; one attorney, one judge, with the courage to admit that an error was
made. Certainly a man who had the courage to refuse participation in the
invasion of Kuwait is worth the effort.

LOAD-DATE: July 7, 1998

LANGUAGE: English

                  Copyright 1998 St. Louis Post-Dispatch, Inc.


                              125 of 457 DOCUMENTS

                       St. Louis Post-Dispatch (Missouri)

                August 28, 1998, Friday, FIVE STAR LIFT EDITION

DEATHS ELSEWHERE

SECTION: METRO, Pg. C15

LENGTH: 195 words


HAROLD W. EZELL, 61, co-author of California's controversial Proposition 187 and
a vocal advocate for immigration reform, died of liver cancer Tuesday (Aug. 25,
1998) in Newport Beach, Calif. Mr. Ezell was an outspoken critic of the U.S.
Immigration and Naturalization Service, under which he was Western regional
director in the Reagan and Bush administrations. He helped draft Proposition
187, which sought to end publicly funded education and most health care services
to undocumented immigrants. The measure passed, but a judge ruled it
unconstitutional.

FLOYD HASKELL, 82, a former senator from Colorado whose opposition to the
Vietnam War propelled him to office in 1972, died of pneumonia Tuesday (Aug. 25,
1998) in Washington.

LOUISE SHEPARD, 74, widow of Mercury astronaut Alan Shepard, died of a heart
attack Tuesday (Aug. 25, 1998) while flying home to Monterey, Calif., after
visiting a daughter in Colorado. Alan Shepard died last month at 74 while being
treated for leukemia. He and his wife shared a passion for golf - Alan Shepard
was famous for hitting a golf ball on the moon - and they were often
photographed playing the game together.

LOAD-DATE: October 22, 1999

LANGUAGE: English

                  Copyright 1998 St. Louis Post-Dispatch, Inc.


                              126 of 457 DOCUMENTS

                       St. Louis Post-Dispatch (Missouri)

              September 2, 1998, Wednesday, FIVE STAR LIFT EDITION

NATION

BYLINE: From News Services

SECTION: NEWS, Pg. A4, NATION BRIEFS COLUMN

LENGTH: 1092 words



Immigrants win right to challenge deportation in court

A federal appeals court ruled Tuesday that immigrants have a constitutional
right to challenge a deportation order in court. The 3-0 ruling by the 9th U.S.
Circuit Court of Appeals in San Francisco is the first decision by a federal
appellate court saying that immigrants had such a right, since the passage of
the Illegal Immigration Reform and Immigrant Responsibility Act in 1996 threw
the issue into question. Under that statute, Congress attempted, among other
things, to dramatically restrict the ability of federal courts to review actions
by the Immigration and Naturalization Service. The congressional statute was
intended to curb allegedly frivolous appeals and make it easier to deport
criminals. Opponents of the bill contended that it was a radical "court
stripping" measure. There are suits on the issue pending throughout the country.


Million Youth March will go on, with restrictions

A U.S. appeals court gave the go-ahead Tuesday for a march that is expected to
draw tens of thousands of black youths, including gang members, to New York this
weekend but limited it in time and place. The 2nd U.S. Circuit Court of Appeals,
in a 2-1 decision, agreed with a lower court's ruling that New York had
wrongfully denied a permit for Saturday's Million Youth March, whose chief
organizer is a dismissed official of the Nation of Islam. But the court ruled
that the demonstration could not be held as planned, because it would overburden
a police force stretched thin over the Labor Day weekend. The march - described
by organizers as a show of unity among young blacks resembling the Million Man
March held in Washington in 1995 - is scheduled for a time when the city is
under increased security. The tightening followed the arrival of two suspects in
the bombing of the U.S. Embassy in Kenya who are to be tried in U.S. District
Court in Manhattan.

Labor board: Detroit papers' practices are unfair

The National Labor Relations Board has upheld a finding that the Detroit
newspaper strike was caused by unfair labor practices and ordered the newspapers
to bring former strikers back to work immediately. The newspapers said they
would appeal the ruling, released Tuesday. The board found in favor of the
newspapers on a major issue: that Detroit Newspapers Inc., the business and
production agency for The Detroit News and the Detroit Free Press, did not
violate labor laws by ending joint negotiations with six union locals. But the
board said the News violated federal law when it imposed its proposals on merit
pay and television assignments, and by refusing to give the union requested
information about the proposals. The 19-month strike ended in February 1997 and
the newspapers have been bringing former strikers back to work as jobs become
available while retaining the replacement workers they hired during the walkout.
Union leaders hailed the ruling, which upheld part of a federal administrative
law judge's 1997 ruling.

Pilot on training flight survives crash of F-16 Falcon

An Air Force F-16 Falcon fighter plane crashed on a training mission in New
Mexico on Tuesday, but the pilot ejected and no one was killed. The plane went
down about 30 miles southwest of the eastern New Mexico town of Fort Sumner. It
was on a routine training mission from the Cannon Air Force Base about 80 miles
away. Air Force spokeswoman Colleen Duncan said the pilot, Maj. Kevin Frisbee,
suffered only minor injuries when he ejected. He was listed in stable condition
at an Albuquerque hospital. The plane seats one pilot and costs more than $ 10
million.

Schools in Washington manage to start on time

Schools in the nation's capital began their year on schedule Tuesday for the
first time in three years. Last year the schools opened three weeks late as roof
repairs dragged on. This summer the Army Corps of Engineers was called in to
oversee repairs on dozens of buildings. "What we're trying to do is show
Congress that we can do the job and we can do it well," said the new
superintendent of schools, Arlene Ackerman. She has reassigned or replaced
nearly a quarter of the district's principals and administrators since she took
office in May. Although the reopening went smoothly at most of the district's
146 schools, there was at least one hitch: Parents kept nearly 160 children from
the Bethune-Woodson Afric an-Centered School because of worries about asbestos.
City Councilman Harold Brazil called for an Environmental Protection Agency
inspection to address their concerns.

Two stations pull the plug on Stern's new TV show

Calling Howard Stern's 2-week-old syndicated TV show "morally offensive," a
Texas television station on Tuesday became the first in the nation to pull the
plug on it. Later, a Phoenix station announced that it too was canceling the
Stern show, calling the broadcast cruel. "What played on the radio, and perhaps
might even be funny on the radio, once you added video, it took on the feeling
of being cruel," said Sue Schwartz, vice president of programming at independent
station KTVK in Phoenix. KJTV, a Fox affiliate in Lubbock, Texas, said it had
received about 20 letters complaining about "The Howard Stern Radio Show." The
shock jock's half-hour program debuted Aug. 22 as competition to NBC's
long-running "Saturday Night Live." In its two weeks, Stern's show has featured
a "lap dance" performed by a naked woman, a female bodybuilder groped by Stern
and an interview in which O.J. Simpson was asked for his tips on removing blood
stains.

Tennessee police find bad brakes on runaway truck

The runaway tractor-trailer that smashed into vendors and vehicles at the
"World's Longest Yard Sale," killing two people and injuring 20, had defective
brakes, the Tennessee Highway Patrol says. An investigators' report was finished
Monday and will be presented to the Rhea County district attorney's office to
decide whether charges should be brought against the driver, said Capt. John
Savage. The 12th annual yard sale featured about 3,000 vendors at dozens of
sites along 450 miles of scenic roads from Gadsden, Ala., through Georgia and
Tennessee to Covington, Ky. The accident happened Aug. 13, the first day of the
sale, about 40 miles north of Chattanooga. The truck driver, Catherine Souliere,
40, was hauling wood chips when her truck careened through an intersection,
slamming into cars and trucks and striking vendors. The two people who died were
in a car that caught fire.

LOAD-DATE: September 2, 1998

LANGUAGE: English

GRAPHIC: PHOTO The Associated Press Photo - Gore pays call to the Health Caravan

 Vice President Al Gore sits before a bus with a photo of a doctor checking a
child during a stop of the National Child Health Caravan at the Washington
Monument on Tuesday. the caravan brings specialists to treat children in 12
states.

                  Copyright 1998 St. Louis Post-Dispatch, Inc.


                              127 of 457 DOCUMENTS

                       St. Louis Post-Dispatch (Missouri)

                February 18, 1999, Thursday, THREE STAR EDITION

NATION

BYLINE: From News Services

SECTION: NEWS, Pg. A8, NATION BRIEFS COLUMN

LENGTH: 921 words



INS won't release criminal aliens anytime soon

Immigration officials said Wednesday they would not release nonviolent criminal
aliens into the community in the near future, a week after saying a new law and
a tight budget might force them to do so. The U.S. Immigration and
Naturalization Service was still reviewing its options for 16,000 immigrants in
its custody, INS spokesman Russ Bergeron said. "We're not going to release
anybody yet," he said. Immigration officials said last week they did not have
the space to house all the immigrants classified as mandatory detainees under
current law, and might begin releasing nonviolent aliens - including those
convicted of crimes like shoplifting and counterfeiting - as early as this
month. Miami INS spokeswoman Maria Elena Garcia said public safety was a key
factor in any decision to release criminal aliens. It was expected to take at
least three or four weeks for the agency to assess its needs and determine if
releases would be needed, Bergeron said.

San Francisco schools end race-based desegregation

San Francisco's public schools agreed Wednesday to halt 15 years of race-based
desegregation efforts, dropping all ethnic considerations when deciding which
students get into which classrooms. Under a settlement among the National
Association for the Advancement of Colored People, the school system and
Chinese-American parents who alleged that racial quotas blocked their children
from top city schools, San Francisco will now rely on "race neutral" criteria
such as economic status and geographic distribution as it attempts to guarantee
student diversity.

LA prosecutor won't retry former Black Panther

The three-decade legal battle of Elmer "Geronimo" Pratt ended Wednesday with the
Los Angeles district attorney's decision to drop further prosecution. The former
Black Panther spent 27 years in prison for a murder he said he didn't commit.
"The murder at issue in this case occurred over 30 years ago," said Gil
Garcetti, Los Angeles County's top prosecutor. "Most of the witnesses are
deceased. It would be virtually impossible to retry this case." Pratt was freed
in 1997 after 27 years behind bars when a judge ruled that he was denied a fair
trial because the star prosecution witness concealed the fact that he was a
police informant. On Tuesday, a California appeals court upheld the ruling,
granting a new trial. Pratt had been convicted of being one of two men who
robbed and fatally shot a woman on a Santa Monica tennis court. He claimed that
he was in Oakland for Black Panther meetings at the time and that FBI agents and
police hid and possibly destroyed wiretap evidence that would prove it.

Company recalls headcheese sold by Asian stores

A Chicago company has recalled 2,600 pounds of headcheese, a type of seasoned
meat sold by Asian specialty stores, because of concern that it might be
contaminated with listeria, the Agriculture Department said Wednesday. The
product distributed by Ba Le Meat Processing & Wholesale Inc. was produced
between Jan. 7 and Feb. 5, officials said. Subject to recall are packages of "Ba
Le Gio Thu (Headcheese)" between 1 and 8 pounds. Headcheese is a seasoned loaf
made of the head meat of a calf or pig. The packages bear "Est 18442" in the
U.S. Department of Agriculture inspection mark.

Gov. Bush is "warming"  to idea of presidential run

Offering his strongest statement to date on whether he is going to run for
president in 2000, Texas Gov. George W. Bush said Wednesday: "I'm warming to the
task." The Republican, a leader in several recent polls on the 2000 race,
repeated that he still hasn't made up his mind. Bush spoke after a meeting with
legislative leaders from New Jersey and South Carolina. It was his latest
discussion with politicians from outside Texas who are urging him to seek the
White House. "A couple of the people here said, 'If you'll run, we'll support
you.' For that, I'm most grateful," Bush said.

Democrats look likely to hold 2000 convention in LA

The Democratic Party appears to be leaning toward choosing Los Angeles as the
site for its 2000 national convention, according to the mayor of Boston who is
heading a rival bid to host the gathering. "They're negotiating with Los
Angeles. They haven't officially said to me that 'you're out of the picture' as
of yet. (But) it seems like a pretty done deal," Mayor Thomas Menino told
WCVB-TV in Boston. Denver is also a finalist. The Republicans have already
chosen Philadelphia for the site of their 2000 presidential convention.

Radio City Music Hall closes for 7-month renovation

Radio City Music Hall in New York, home of the famous high-kicking Rockettes and
a tourist draw for 2 million visitors a year, has closed for a seven-month, $ 60
million renovation. The landmark art deco hall will reopen in October in time
for the Rockettes' annual Christmas Spectacular show, said Susie Arons, a
spokeswoman for Radio City Entertainment. Arons declined to offer details of the
renovation, but said the project would include compliance with federal laws
protecting people with disabilities. U.S. Attorney Mary Jo White had sued Radio
City Production LLC and RCPI Trust, the owners and operators of the Manhattan
theater, alleging it was not accessible for handicapped visitors. To settle the
civil action filed in federal court last week, the companies agreed to make
extensive changes. The 5,901-seat theater, designed by Samuel Lionel Rothafel,
opened in 1932.

LOAD-DATE: July 22, 1999

LANGUAGE: English

GRAPHIC: PHOTO Photo from THE ASSOCIATED PRESS - Tandem stroller is recalled for
safety reasons
 Russell Rader, of the Consumer Product Safety Commission, shows a recalled
Geoby Two Ways tandem stroller Wednesday. The Cosco Inc. stroller can collapse
if locks on its folding mechanism fail.

                  Copyright 1999 St. Louis Post-Dispatch, Inc.


                              128 of 457 DOCUMENTS

                       St. Louis Post-Dispatch (Missouri)

              February 18, 1999, Thursday, FIVE STAR LIFT EDITION

NATION

BYLINE: From News Services

SECTION: NEWS, Pg. A8, NATION BRIEFS COLUMN

LENGTH: 901 words



INS won't release criminal aliens anytime soon

Immigration officials said Wednesday they would not release nonviolent criminal
aliens into the community in the near future, a week after saying a new law and
a tight budget might force them to do so. The U.S. Immigration and
Naturalization Service was still reviewing its options for 16,000 immigrants in
its custody, INS spokesman Russ Bergeron said. "We're not going to release
anybody yet," he said. Immigration officials said last week they did not have
the space to house all the immigrants classified as mandatory detainees under
current law, and might begin releasing nonviolent aliens cas early as this
month.

San Francisco schools end race-based desegregation

San Francisco's public schools agreed Wednesday to halt 15 years of race-based
desegregation efforts, dropping all ethnic considerations when deciding which
students get into which classrooms. Under a settlement among the National
Association for the Advancement of Colored People, the school system and
Chinese-American parents who alleged that racial quotas blocked their children
from top city schools, San Francisco will now rely on "race neutral" criteria
such as economic status and geographic distribution as it attempts to guarantee
student diversity.

LA prosecutor won't retry former Black Panther

The three-decade legal battle of Elmer "Geronimo" Pratt ended Wednesday with the
Los Angeles district attorney's decision to drop further prosecution. The former
Black Panther spent 27 years in prison for a murder he said he didn't commit.
"The murder at issue in this case occurred over 30 years ago," said Gil
Garcetti, Los Angeles County's top prosecutor. "Most of the witnesses are
deceased. It would be virtually impossible to retry this case." Pratt was freed
in 1997 after 27 years behind bars when a judge ruled that he was denied a fair
trial because the star prosecution witness concealed the fact that he was a
police informant. On Tuesday, a California appeals court upheld the ruling,
granting a new trial. Pratt had been convicted of being one of two men who
robbed and fatally shot a woman on a Santa Monica tennis court. He claimed that
he was in Oakland for Black Panther meetings at the time and that FBI agents and
police hid and possibly destroyed wiretap evidence that would prove it.

Company recalls headcheese sold by Asian stores

A Chicago company has recalled 2,600 pounds of headcheese, a type of seasoned
meat sold by Asian specialty stores, because of concern that it might be
contaminated with listeria, the Agriculture Department said Wednesday. The
product distributed by Ba Le Meat Processing & Wholesale Inc. was produced
between Jan. 7 and Feb. 5, officials said. Subject to recall are packages of "Ba
Le Gio Thu (Headcheese)" between 1 and 8 pounds. Headcheese is a seasoned loaf
made of the head meat of a calf or pig. The packages bear "Est 18442" in the
U.S. Department of Agriculture inspection mark.

Family of boy, 8, initially accused in killing sues police

The family of one of two young boys initially charged with killing an
11-year-old girl for her bicycle sued Chicago police for $ 100 million on
Wednesday. The family accused detectives of framing the boy. The boys, ages 7
and 8, had been accused of beating Ryan Harris, suffocating her with her panties
and molesting her. Attorney Andre Grant said his client, the 8-year-old, had
been a good student who has become troubled because of the ordeal. "We have a
student now who's failing in school. We have a child who won't play, will not go
outside, (has) nightmares, (and) is afraid to sleep alone," Grant said. The
charges were dropped in September when lab results revealed the presence of
sperm on the girl's body.

Talk show host buys, then burns, O.J. memorabilia

Some O.J. Simpson memorabilia went up in flames to a chorus of cheers and boos
in Los Angeles on Wednesday. Two No. 32 football jerseys and a Professional
Football Hall of Fame induction certificate were burned, and two trophies were
smashed outside the Criminal Courts Building. The incident was organized by a
Christian radio talk show host, Bob Enyart. He bought $ 16,000 worth of items at
an auction Tuesday, then destroyed them a day later. The auction raised $
430,000, including $ 255,500 paid for Simpson's Heisman Trophy. The items were
auctioned to help pay off a $ 33.5 million judgment Simpson owes in the deaths
of his former wife Nicole Brown Simpson and her friend, Ronald Goldman. "We are
destroying O.J. Simpson's property in front of the L.A. courthouse because the
criminal justice system is destroying justice before our very eyes," said Enyart
of Denver.c Money raised from the auction goes to the estates of Nicole Simpson
and Goldman. A jury made the award in a wrongful death lawsuit that followed
Simpson's acquittal in the 1994 killings.

Radio City Music Hall closes for 7-month renovation

New York's Radio City Music Hall has closed for a seven-month to undergo
renovations, part of which will bring the theater in compliance with tstfederal
laws protecting disabled patrons. U.S. Attorney Mary Jo White had sued the
hall's owners and operators last week, alleging that the facility was
inaccessible for disabled visitors. To settle the civil action, the companies
agreed to make extensive changes in the 5,901-seat theater.

LOAD-DATE: July 22, 1999

LANGUAGE: English

GRAPHIC: PHOTO Photo from THE ASSOCIATED PRESS - Tandem stroller is recalled for
safety reasons
 Russell Rader, of the Consumer Product Safety Commission, shows a recalled
Geoby Two Ways tandem stroller Wednesday. The Cosco Inc. stroller can collapse
if locks on its folding mechanism fail.

                  Copyright 1999 St. Louis Post-Dispatch, Inc.


                              129 of 457 DOCUMENTS

                       St. Louis Post-Dispatch (Missouri)

                 February 19, 1999, Friday, THREE STAR EDITION

INCEST CASE SENDS INDIA-BORN TEEN TO JAIL; DEPORTATION IS NEXT

BYLINE: The Associated Press

SECTION: NEWS, Pg. A15

LENGTH: 188 words

DATELINE: MOUNT CLEMENS, MICH.


A teen-ager who impregnated his sister when she was 12 was sentenced to six
months in jail and six months on an electronic tether Thursday. He also faces
being deported to his native India.

The girl's immigrant family had to go to court last year to win the right to
take her to Kansas for a late-term abortion. Late-term abortions are illegal in
Michigan.

Her 18-year-old brother, who was 17 when the girl became pregnant, pleaded
guilty in December to a charge of criminal sexual conduct. He could have gotten
two years in prison.

The Immigration and Naturalization Service said it will deport him when he
finishes his jail term.

Judge Roland Olzark and prosecutor Steven Kaplan said the parents bear
significant responsibility for putting their son and daughter in the same small
bedroom. "I see a young man with an excellent future, absent this offense," the
judge said.

The teen-ager was also given three years of probation.

Immigration law requires the deportation of non-citizens who commit what the
government considers "aggravated felonies," said INS District Director Carol
Jenifer in Detroit.

LOAD-DATE: July 7, 1999

LANGUAGE: English

                  Copyright 1999 St. Louis Post-Dispatch, Inc.


                              130 of 457 DOCUMENTS

                       St. Louis Post-Dispatch (Missouri)

                 March 12, 1999, Friday, FIVE STAR LIFT EDITION

CLINTON HEARS WISH LIST AT SUMMIT IN GUATEMALA;
CENTRAL AMERICAN LEADERS APPEAL FOR AID AND GREATER ACCESS TO U.S. MARKETS

BYLINE: The Associated Press

SECTION: NEWS, Pg. A5

LENGTH: 353 words

DATELINE: ANTIGUA, GUATEMALA


Leaders of hurricane-battered Central America urged President Bill Clinton on
Thursday to provide wider trade access to U.S. markets, fairer immigration rules
and timely reconstruction aid. "We are determined to see this area emerge from
adversity," Clinton said.

Four months after Hurricane Mitch killed more than 9,000 people and caused up to
$ 10 billion in damage in this impoverished region, the leaders expressed hope
that the rebuilding would strengthen economies and establish prosperous
societies with equal opportunity after decades of civil wars, coups and
dictatorships.

On the final day of his four-day visit to the region, Clinton met with the
leaders of Guatemala, Nicaragua, Costa Rica, El Salvador, Honduras, the
Dominican Republic and Belize.

Summarizing a day of talks, Nicaraguan President Arnoldo Aleman said that
greater access to the U.S. market was the key for sustained development to fight
poverty and unemployment, "the social evils that affect our countries."

The leaders muted their disappointment at Clinton's failure to get swift
congressional approval for $ 956 million in reconstruction aid, freer access to
U.S. markets and a suspension of the deportation of illegal immigrants.

Clinton said he had reaffirmed his "intention to support our immigration laws
fairly and justly, but to work strongly for the elimination of any disparities
in our law so that they treat Central Americans equitably, whatever their
country of origin."

Currently, the law provides more favorable treatment to immigrants from
Nicaragua and Honduras than from El Salvador and Guatemala.

Clinton said the United States supports greater debt relief for Central America.
In their final communique, the leaders said debt relief was critical -
particularly for Nicaragua and Honduras - to sustain development.

Clinton noted he also has asked Congress to expand trade opportunities for
Central America and the Caribbean by lowering tariffs and quotas.

The joint communique pledged intra-American cooperation to improve human rights,
tackle crime and drugs, and clean up the environment.

LOAD-DATE: July 8, 1999

LANGUAGE: English

GRAPHIC: PHOTO Photo from the ASSOCIATED PRESS - President Bill Clinton jokes
with a crowd Thursday following the opening remarks at a summit meeting of
Central American leaders in Guatemala.

                  Copyright 1999 St. Louis Post-Dispatch, Inc.


                              131 of 457 DOCUMENTS

                       St. Louis Post-Dispatch (Missouri)

                April 15, 1999, Thursday, FIVE STAR LIFT EDITION

ST. PETERS MAN SAYS HE WASN'T ASKED ABOUT SS

BYLINE: Tim Bryant; Of The Post-Dispatch

SECTION: METRO, Pg. B2

LENGTH: 476 words


A 79-year-old St. Peters man testified Wednesday that he never lied to
immigration authorities about his role in the German forces in World War II.

Michael Negele, a retired aircraft worker who has lived in the St. Louis area
since 1955, could lose his U.S. citizenship if a judge finds he got his visa
illegally by misleading immigration authorities. Negele could be deported.

Negele testified that when he sought a visa in Stuttgart, Germany, in 1950 to
enter the United States, he told immigration officials he had served in the
Romanian and German armies between February 1942 and May 1945. The officials
never asked him to give details of his service, he said.

What about his membership in the Death's Head Battalion of the Waffen-SS, asked
his lawyer, Warren Hoff.

"They never asked me about that," Negele replied in a heavy accent.

"Were you trying to fool them?" Hoff asked.

"No," Negele answered.

The Justice Department contends in a civil complaint that Negele hid his Nazi
past; authorities would have denied his visa had they known he had been a
concentration camp guard.

While on the stand, the white-haired Negele wore a hearing aid in each ear and
frequently needed questions to be repeated. At times he appeared confused. He
was the main witness in his defense during the last day of his three-day trial.

U.S. District Judge E. Richard Webber will decide the case in June.

A federal complaint filed in 1997 seeks to revoke Negele's U.S. citizenship
because he hid his membership in the SS, which ran Nazi concentration camps. The
international war crimes tribunal at Nuremberg declared the SS, the elite guard
of the Nazi Party of Germany, a criminal organization involved in the
persecution and extermination of Jews.

Negele, an ethnic German, was born in St. Nikolaus, Romania. He testified that
he was drafted into the Romanian army in 1942 and trained as a rifleman. His
job, though, was to bake bread for the army in Bucharest, he said.

In November 1943, as part of an agreement between Germany and Romania, Negele
was drafted into the German army and assigned to the Death's Head Battalion of
the Waffen-SS, he said. The Germans sent him to Sachsenhausen, a labor camp near
Berlin, where he spent four months learning how to handle a guard dog. He said
he trained at the camp's perimeter on weekdays and spent weekends at a bar in
Berlin.

In June 1944, the SS transferred Negele and his dog to the Terezin internment
camp, in Nazi-occupied Czechoslovakia. He said he never carried a gun because
"everything was quiet over there."

Russian soldiers captured Negele on May 8, 1945.

Jeffrey Menkin, a Justice Department lawyer, asked Negele Wednesday whether he
committed any crimes while at the "Jewish ghetto" of Terezin.

"I never committed any crime," Negele replied.

LOAD-DATE: April 16, 1999

LANGUAGE: English

                  Copyright 1999 St. Louis Post-Dispatch, Inc.


                              132 of 457 DOCUMENTS

                       St. Louis Post-Dispatch (Missouri)

                  May 9, 1999, Sunday, FIVE STAR LIFT EDITION

WHO CALLS THE SHOTS?

SECTION: IMAGINE ST. LOUIS, Pg. B5

LENGTH: 149 words


Congress makes the nation's immigration laws. The Immigration and Naturalization
Service enforces those laws. That job includes trying to prevent illegal
immigration.

Locally, several not-for-profit groups, including the International Institute,
the Jewish Federation of St. Louis, Southside Catholic Community Services,
Lutheran Immigrant and Refugee Services and Accion Social Comunitaria, work to
help immigrants and refugees who settle here.

Area city and county governments, school districts and police departments, as
well as other social-service agencies, are challenged by new arrivals. Language
often is the major barrier, but increased multiculturalism also can result in
miscommunication.

Businesses such as banks, insurance agencies and real-estate firms often offer
services in languages other than English if they can help them win customers
among ethnic groups.

LOAD-DATE: May 10, 1999

LANGUAGE: English

                  Copyright 1999 St. Louis Post-Dispatch, Inc.


                              133 of 457 DOCUMENTS

                       St. Louis Post-Dispatch (Missouri)

                 July 18, 1999, Sunday, FIVE STAR LIFT EDITION

WHO CALLS THE SHOTS?

BYLINE: Dan Mihalopoulos; And Tim O'Neil

SECTION: IMAGINE ST. LOUIS, Pg. B5

LENGTH: 118 words


Congress sets the nation's immigration policy. The Immigration and
Naturalization Service enforces those laws.

Locally, several nonprofit groups, including the International Institute, the
Jewish Federation of St. Louis, Southside Catholic Community Services, Lutheran
Immigrant and Refugee Services and Accion Social Comunitaria work to help
immigrants and refugees who settle here.

Area city and county governments, school districts and police departments, as
well as other social service agencies, are challenged by new arrivals. Language
often is the major barrier.

Businesses such as banks, insurance agencies and real estate firms often offer
services in languages other than English.

LOAD-DATE: July 18, 1999

LANGUAGE: English

                  Copyright 1999 St. Louis Post-Dispatch, Inc.


                              134 of 457 DOCUMENTS

                       St. Louis Post-Dispatch (Missouri)

                 July 18, 1999, Sunday, FIVE STAR LIFT EDITION

WEB SITES

BYLINE: Dan Mihalopoulos; And Tim O'Neil

SECTION: IMAGINE ST. LOUIS, Pg. B5

LENGTH: 90 words



* U.S. Immigration and Naturalization Service, www.ins.usdoj.gov

* Norman Matloff's Immigration Forum ("a balanced, diverse set of viewpoints on
this important topic"), ftp://heather.cs.ucdavis.edu/pub/Immigration/Index.html

* National Immigration Forum ("to embrace and uphold America's tradition as a
nation of immigrants"), www.immigrationforum.org

* Federation for American Immigration Reform ("working to help the American
public convince Congress that our nation's immigration laws must be reformed"),
www.fairus.org

LOAD-DATE: July 18, 1999

LANGUAGE: English

                  Copyright 1999 St. Louis Post-Dispatch, Inc.


                              135 of 457 DOCUMENTS

                       St. Louis Post-Dispatch (Missouri)

                July 21, 1999, Wednesday, FIVE STAR LIFT EDITION

ST. PETERS MAN WHO WAS NAZI GUARD IN WWII LOSES CITIZENSHIP;
FEDERAL JUDGE RULES HE MISREPRESENTED HIS PAST

BYLINE: Tim Bryant; Of the Post-Dispatch

SECTION: NEWS, Pg. A1

LENGTH: 494 words


As a Nazi concentration camp guard in World War II, Michael Negele of St. Peters
acquiesced "in conduct contrary to civilization and human decency" and,
therefore, must lose his U.S. citizenship, a federal judge ruled Tuesday.

U.S. District Judge E. Richard Webber ruled that Negele, 79, misrepresented his
Nazi past in getting a visa to enter the United States. As a result, his
naturalized citizenship, granted in St. Louis in 1955, was "illegally procured,"
Webber said in a 90-page ruling.

Webber revoked Negele's citizenship and ordered him to surrender his certificate
of naturalization to the government.

Negele's lawyer, Warren Hoff, said he would appeal the ruling to the 8th U.S.
Circuit Court of Appeals and, if necessary, to the Supreme Court. An effort by
the Justice Department to deport Negele could not begin until after appeals of
Webber's ruling are completed, Hoff said.

Testifying before Webber in April, Negele said that he never misled immigration
authorities, who allowed him to enter the United States without knowing of his
service as a Nazi concentration camp guard in World War II.

Negele testified that when he sought a visa in Stuttgart, Germany, in 1950 he
told U.S. immigration officials he had served in the Romanian and German armies
between February 1942 and May 1945. The officials never asked him to give
details of his service, he said.

Negele, a retired aircraft worker, has lived in the United States since 1950.

Webber said he found "unpersuasive" Negele's claim that he was unaware of the
difference between service in the German army and his membership in the Death's
Head Battalion of the Waffen-SS.

The Justice Department contends Negele hid his Nazi past, thereby getting his
visa and eventual citizenship illegally. Immigration authorities would have
denied his visa application had they known of Negele's service as a
concentration camp guard, Webber indicated.

Justice Department lawyers sought to revoke Negele's U.S. citizenship because he
hid his membership in the SS, which ran Nazi concentration camps. The
international war crimes tribunal at Nuremberg declared the SS, the elite guard
of the Nazi Party of Germany, a criminal organization involved in the
persecution and extermination of Jews.

Negele, an ethnic German, was born in St. Nikolaus, Romania. He testified that
he was drafted into the Romanian army in 1942 and trained as a rifleman. In
November 1943, as part of an agreement between Germany and Romania involving
ethnic Germans, Negele was drafted into the German army and assigned to the
Death's Head Battalion, he said.

The Germans sent him to Sachsenhausen, primarily a labor camp, near Berlin,
where he learned how to handle a guard dog.

In June 1944, the SS transferred Negele and his dog to Terezin, also known as
Theresienstadt, an internment camp, in Nazi-occupied Czechoslovakia. Negele had
to have known of the horrible conditions there, Webber ruled.

LOAD-DATE: July 21, 1999

LANGUAGE: English

                  Copyright 1999 St. Louis Post-Dispatch, Inc.


                              136 of 457 DOCUMENTS

                       St. Louis Post-Dispatch (Missouri)

              September 11, 1999, Saturday, FIVE STAR LIFT EDITION

LETTERS TO THE EDITOR : IMMIGRATION POLICY VIOLATES HUMAN RIGHTS

SECTION: EDITORIAL, Pg. 31

LENGTH: 358 words


The Sept. 6 coverage of the Chinese asylum seekers held at Ullin, Ill., by the
Immigration and Naturalization Service deserves comment.

First, our government brought this group to the United States after screening
them in the Northern Marianas on their asylum claims. Contrary to the INS
position, they did not enter the United States without permission and thus have
broken no law.

Second, it is not against the law for a person to come to the United States
seeking asylum regardless of whether he or she has a visa to enter. Most people
escaping persecution in their homeland do not have travel documents and visas.
Since World War II, international law has guaranteed the right of persons
fleeing persecution to seek asylum.

The United States is a signatory to those laws and that right is written into
our domestic refugee policy. However, when refugee policy lost its propaganda
value after the demise of communism, the United States began imprisoning persons
entering the United States to seek asylum. They are treated as criminals, often
imprisoned for years in isolated places like Ullin before a final decision is
made on their case.

Third, it is disingenuous for the INS to allege that these men and women are
imprisoned because of concern for their safety. Whether they are ultimately
granted asylum and then released or are released prior to their hearing, they
face the same potential harm. In fact, imprisoning them in one area gives
smugglers a much better chance to track them. (As does including their names and
pictures in newspaper coverage.)

The reason they are jailed is that it is INS policy to do so. As the article
noted, 17,500 other asylum seekers are similarly imprisoned.

These Chinese people have been imprisoned for months. Human storage of asylum
seekers is United States policy. Notwithstanding the kindness of local
volunteers and jail officials, this policy violates basic norms of human rights
and international law. The policy must change before the kindness of strangers
will have any significant meaning.

Angie O'Gorman

Director

Immigration Law Project

St. Louis

LOAD-DATE: September 11, 1999

LANGUAGE: English

                  Copyright 1999 St. Louis Post-Dispatch, Inc.


                              137 of 457 DOCUMENTS

                       St. Louis Post-Dispatch (Missouri)

               November 30, 1999, Tuesday, FIVE STAR LIFT EDITION

U.S. RELEASES EGYPTIAN MAN ALLEGED TO HAVE BEEN INVOLVED IN TERRORISM

BYLINE: The Associated Press

SECTION: NEWS, Pg. A8

LENGTH: 308 words

DATELINE: NEW YORK


An Egyptian man who had been jailed for 3 1/2 years on secret evidence was freed
Monday after immigration officials gave up a last-ditch legal challenge to his
release.

Nasser Ahmed, whom authorities had depicted as a terrorist, was once a close
associate of Sheik Omar Abdel-Rahman, an extremist Muslim cleric whom
authorities describe as the spiritual leader of Egypt's largest militant group,
Al-Gamaa al-Islamiya.

In 1995, Ahmed, 38, an engineer, served as a court-appointed translator and
paralegal for Abdel-Rahman when the sheik was tried and convicted for conspiring
with nine others in a plot to blow up the United Nations and other New York
landmarks. The blind sheik is now serving life in prison.

The Justice Department notified Ahmed's attorneys Monday afternoon that he would
be freed. Later, the Immigration and Naturalization Service said it had
withdrawn its request of Attorney General Janet Reno to keep Ahmed jailed while
it continues to try to prove he poses a threat to national security. An
immigration appeals court had already ruled that Ahmed should be released. Reno
had temporarily blocked the order until Monday.

Federal officials gave no indication that they would drop Ahmed's case.

The decision to free Ahmed marks the latest development in the ongoing legal and
political battle over government's use of secret evidence to combat terrorism.

Civil liberties and Arab-American groups have accused the immigration service of
denying due process to about two dozen suspects of Arab descent by jailing them
without allowing them to confront the evidence against them.

U.S. officials counter that laws and court rulings require immigration judges to
consider evidence secretly in terrorism investigations involving noncitizens, in
part to protect intelligence sources and national security.

LOAD-DATE: November 30, 1999

LANGUAGE: English

                  Copyright 1999 St. Louis Post-Dispatch, Inc.


                              138 of 457 DOCUMENTS

                       St. Louis Post-Dispatch (Missouri)

                 December 10, 1999, Friday, THREE STAR EDITION

THOUSANDS IN CUBA MARCH TO DEMAND BOY'S RETURN;
U.S. IMMIGRATION OFFICIALS AWAIT RESPONSE TO REQUEST FOR INVERVIEW WITH FATHER

BYLINE: The Associated Press

SECTION: NEWS, Pg. A5

LENGTH: 355 words

DATELINE: HAVANA


Tens of thousands of Cubans marched along Havana's main coastal highway Thursday
to demand the return of a 6-year-old boy who was rescued off the Florida coast
two weeks ago.

Calling the government-organized demonstration the "March of the Combatant
Nation," the Communist daily Granma promised a turnout of at least 300,000.

The chief of the U.S. mission in Cuba, meanwhile, said she was awaiting a
response from Cuban officials to a request by U.S. immigration officials for an
interview with Elian's Gonzalez's father, who wants the child returned home.

"They said they would not have an answer for us until this evening," said Vicki
Huddleston, head of the U.S. Interests Section, the American diplomatic mission,
in Havana. "The ball is in their court. We are on standby."

U.S. officials say the letter from American immigration authorities was
delivered to the Cuban Foreign Ministry on Wednesday night after a demonstration
outside the American mission.

The one-page letter indicated that the Immigration and Naturalization Service
wanted to interview Juan Miguel Gonzalez, the boy's father, at the U.S. mission
in Havana to determine "whether he has an ability to prove that in fact he is
the father of the child" and other basic facts, Deputy Attorney General Eric
Holder said in a news conference in Washington.

Holder said immigration officials would make the final decision on whether to
return the boy to Cuba.

During Wednesday night's demonstration outside the U.S. mission, President Fidel
Castro told a crowd of tens of thousands that the boy's father had said he would
not talk to American officials unless they can tell him when the child will be
brought home.

The Cuban government is calling for nationwide protests demanding the boy's
return.

The boy was rescued off the Florida coast Nov. 25 and turned over to relatives
in Miami. His mother and stepfather died in the illegal attempt to flee to the
United States.

Elian's father has insisted on the boy's return to Cuba, but the child's
great-aunt and great-uncle say they can provide him with a better life in
Florida.

LOAD-DATE: December 10, 1999

LANGUAGE: English

GRAPHIC: PHOTO THE ASSOCIATED PRESS Photo - Cubans in Havana take part Wednesday
in what the government has called the "March of the Combatant Nation." The signs
read: Return little Elian to his school desk.

                  Copyright 1999 St. Louis Post-Dispatch, Inc.


                              139 of 457 DOCUMENTS

                       St. Louis Post-Dispatch (Missouri)

               January 13, 2000, Thursday, FIVE STAR LIFT EDITION

RENO REBUFFS STATE COURT ORDER, SAYS BOY'S CASE IS FEDERAL

BYLINE: The Associated Press

SECTION: NEWS, Pg. A10

LENGTH: 580 words

DATELINE: WASHINGTON


Contesting a Florida court ruling, Attorney General Janet Reno said Wednesday
that any challenge to the government's decision to return Elian Gonzalez to his
Cuban father must be lodged in federal court.

Writing to attorneys for Elian's relatives in Florida, Reno said a Florida state
court's ruling Monday that the boy must remain in the United States until a
March 6 hearing "has no force or effect" on the Immigration and Naturalization
Service's decision in the case.

"The question of who may speak for a 6-year-old child in applying for admission
or asylum is a matter of federal immigration law," Reno wrote. The question of
who speaks for the boy "remains one of federal, not state, law."

To give the boy's Florida relatives time to challenge her decision, Reno
postponed the federal government's deadline of Friday for turning him over for
return to Cuba. But initial reaction from family attorneys appeared to spurn
Reno's suggestion that they argue the case in federal court.

"We have a (Florida) court order that says the boy stays for now," Jose
Garcia-Pedrosa, one of the family's attorneys, told WTVJ-TV in Miami.

"We have a subpoena (from the state court) that requires him to appear in
February. The boy isn't going anywhere. I think the attorney general should
rethink her position very, very, very quickly."

Reno did not give a new deadline or say what steps the federal government might
take next to enforce its decision if the Florida relatives refuse to seek a
federal court ruling. Federal officials have said they have no plans to send
Immigration and Naturalization Service agents to seize the boy.

Florida Gov. Jeb Bush said that the boy's future could best be decided in state
court and that he was disappointed by Reno's decision.

"I just think it's not a cut-and-dried issue, and I think the tie should go to
Elian, not Cuba," Bush said.

A Cuban protest leader in Miami, Jose Basulto, president of Brothers to the
Rescue, said: "If there is no hearing, be prepared to see massive
demonstrations. We are talking about a build-up of emotions, of years of
political frustration having to do with the foreign policy of the United States,
especially with (President Bill) Clinton. This child has become a symbol of many
frustrations."

Joe Lockhart, the White House press secretary, said Reno had Clinton's backing
in seeking to ensure the case goes through proper judicial channels. Lockhart
repeated that Cuban officials have been told that a nonimmigrant visa would be
expedited for Elian's father if he decided he wanted to come to the United
States to press his claim for custody.

Elian's mother, stepfather and others died when their boat capsized as they fled
Cuba. He survived along with two adults.

Attorneys for the family visited Reno last week to press their argument that she
overrule the immigration service's decision. Weighing their arguments, Reno
wrote, "I am not currently aware of any basis for reversing . . . (that)
decision."

Indeed, Reno added that the federal ruling "may be challenged, if at all, only
in federal court. We are prepared to litigate in that forum."

Reno wrote that the immigration service decided that its Jan. 14 deadline for
turning the boy over "should be extended to accommodate any federal court
proceedings."

Finally, Reno appealed for a quick resolution. "It is my strong hope that we can
work together to resolve this child's status as soon as possible," she said.


LOAD-DATE: January 13, 2000

LANGUAGE: English

                  Copyright 2000 St. Louis Post-Dispatch, Inc.


                              140 of 457 DOCUMENTS

                       St. Louis Post-Dispatch (Missouri)

               January 15, 2000, Saturday, FIVE STAR LIFT EDITION

HAITIANS DENOUNCE U.S. IMMIGRATION POLICY AS RACIST AND UNFAIR

BYLINE: The Associated Press

SECTION: NEWS, Pg. 22

LENGTH: 577 words

DATELINE: MIAMI


* Many Haitians living in Miami are indignant over what they believe is a double
standard that allows light-skinned Cubans to immigrate if they reach U.S. soil
but demands dark-skinned Haitians to be repatriated.

The furor over 6-year-old Elian Gonzalez has dramatized what the large Haitian
community in Miami says is a cruel and racist double standard in U.S.
immigration policy: Cubans are embraced and almost automatically offered
citizenship, and black Haitians are sent back.

The disparities inspired a protest this week in downtown Miami by hundreds of
Haitians and American blacks.

They pointed to the plight of a pregnant Haitian woman whose children were sent
back this month while she remained in Miami for medical treatment. The
government ultimately said the children could be with their mother.

One protester, Marie Benite Pierre, said U.S. officials "care more for dogs than
for Haitians."

Said Marleine Bastien, president of Haitian Women of Miami: "It boils down to
racism. It's been going on too long."

Illegal immigrants arrested while trying to get to the United States are sent
back to their home countries.

But under the 1966 Cuban Readjustment Act, Cubans who actually reach U.S. soil
can stay. There is no such law for Haitians and others who arrive illegally:
They are sent back unless they can prove a "credible fear" of persecution in
their homeland.

David Abraham, an immigration law professor at the University of Miami, said
Cubans were in a special situation because of the nature of the United States'
relationship with the communist island.

"If ever Haitian-Americans become as well-organized and influential as
Cuban-Americans, they will receive greater attention," Abraham said. "But I
cannot imagine there ever being something like the Cuban adjustment act for
Haitians."

Legally and politically, the 150,000 Haitians in South Florida do not have the
clout that the Cubans do.

Cubans, who account for 35 percent of Miami-Dade County's 2.1 million people,
dominate local politics, running the city and the county. They have a growing
influence in state politics and two representatives in Congress.

Haitians made their biggest political gain in December when residents of El
Portal, a small village that borders Miami, elected three Haitians to its
five-member council. It is the first municipality in the United States to have a
Haitian majority.

Despite the political gains, activists say Haitians are routinely returned to
Haiti without being allowed to request a hearing to prove that they fear
persecution at home. They criticize what they call the "wet foot, dry foot"
exemption for Cubans who reach Florida.

In the case of Elian Gonzalez, the boy has been living with relatives in Miami
since surviving a Thanksgiving Day boat trip in which his mother, stepfather and
nine others drowned. The controversy over where the boy should live has sparked
large protests in Cuba and Miami.

The Haitians contrast Elian's case with that of Marc Dieubon, 9, and Germanie
Dieubon, 8, who were separated from their mother on New Year's Day after a
60-foot wooden boat carrying 411 people, mostly from Haiti, ran aground about
two miles off Florida. Their mother, Yvena Rhinvil, was brought ashore for
medical treatment, and the children were returned to Haiti.

U.S. officials said they were not told that Rhinvil's children were with her and
would have let the children stay if they had known.

LOAD-DATE: January 15, 2000

LANGUAGE: English

                  Copyright 2000 St. Louis Post-Dispatch, Inc.


                              141 of 457 DOCUMENTS

                       St. Louis Post-Dispatch (Missouri)

                January 23, 2000, Sunday, FIVE STAR LIFT EDITION

CUBAN BOY'S GRANDMOTHERS ASK RENO FOR HELP IN RETURNING HIM TO FATHER;
NO PLANS HAVE BEEN ANNOUNCED FOR THEM TO VISIT GRANDSON IN MIAMI

BYLINE: The Associated Press

SECTION: NEWS, Pg. A3

LENGTH: 695 words

DATELINE: WASHINGTON


Elian Gonzalez's grandmothers, said to be crying as they told Attorney General
Janet Reno in a private meeting "how much they are suffering," appealed for help
Saturday in reuniting him with his father in Cuba.

The grandmothers gave Reno a letter expressing the wish that Elian be returned
to "the normality of life with his father, brother, family, friends at schools,
his toys, dog and parrot."

Elian has been in the custody of relatives in Miami since Nov. 25, when he was
found clinging to an inner tube off the coast of Florida. A boat taking him to
the United States capsized, killing his mother, her boyfriend and nine other
people.

Reno, who has supported Elian's return to Cuba, said in a written statement that
the grandmothers "made a very compassionate and heartfelt plea" but that the
matter now is in federal court. One source familiar with the meeting, speaking
only on condition of anonymity, said the grandmothers were in tears through much
of the meeting.

They returned to New York City later Saturday night, but made no further public
appearances. In Cuba, meanwhile, authorities estimated that 150,000 people
rallied Saturday night to demand the boy's return.

Reno's statement said, "We maintain that the law recognizes the unique
relationship between parent and child and that family reunification has long
been a cornerstone" of U.S. immigration law as well as Immigration and
Naturalization Service practice.

Attorneys for the boy's relatives in Florida have asked a federal judge to
prevent his return at least until he has an asylum hearing.

Mariela Quintana, the boy's paternal grandmother, and maternal grandmother
Raquel Rodriguez did not speak to reporters after the 45-minute meeting at the
Justice Department. But their three-paragraph l etter was released, and
officials of the U.S. and Cuban Council of Churches described their sentiments
afterward.

"The two grandmothers expressed how much they are suffering because of this
separation from their family on behalf of Elian Gonzalez," the Very Rev. Oden
Marichal, head of the Cuban church group, told reporters.

The immigration agency has ordered the boy returned to Cuba. Reno has agreed,
saying the youngster belongs with his father in the communist island where he
was reared. The grandmothers sought the meeting with Reno and Doris Meissner,
the immigration agency commissioner, U.S. officials said.

Officials from National Council of Churches, which represent mainline Protestant
denominations, have been serving as the grandmothers' hosts during their stay of
undetermined length in the United States.

The Rev. Bob Edgar, a former Democratic House member and general secretary of
the church organization, said the grandmothers "shared with the attorney general
their pain in the loss of this grandchild. Both grandmothers articulated as
clearly as anyone could the hunger and passion that they have to return their
grandchild to Cuba."

Edgar said the grandmothers' only plans so far were to return Saturday to New
York City. No plans have been announced for the women to visit the boy or to
return home.

The women must go to Miami to visit Elian, said Armando Gutierrez, spokesman for
the Florida relatives caring for the youngster.

"The doors are open and the welcome mats are out. The family would love for them
to come here to Miami," he said Saturday.

The grandmothers so far have chosen to avoid Miami, where Cuban immigrants
staged massive protests after the immigration ruling.

The fight has escalated far beyond a family feud, becoming the latest
centerpiece of the decades-long battle between anti-Castro Cubans and Cuban
President Fidel Castro.

The grandmothers' letter said Elian's stay in the United States "adds to the
tragedy of the family over the loss" of the boy's mother, Elizabeth.

They expressed gratitude that the U.S. government had affirmed the paternity
rights of father Juan Miguel Gonzalez, but expressed frustration over the
prolonged custody fight.

"We ask that you return Elian to his immediate family and not to his di stant
family where there had not been a previous relationship," the grandmothers
wrote.

LOAD-DATE: January 23, 2000

LANGUAGE: English

GRAPHIC: PHOTO Photo from THE ASSOCIATED PRESS - Raquel Rodriguez (left) and
Mariela Quintana, who are Elian Gonzalez's grandmothers, board a plane in
Washington Saturday after meeting with Attorney General Janet Reno.

                  Copyright 2000 St. Louis Post-Dispatch, Inc.


                              142 of 457 DOCUMENTS

                       St. Louis Post-Dispatch (Missouri)

               January 23, 2000, Sunday, EARLY FIVE STAR EDITION

CUBAN BOY'S GRANDMOTHERS ASK RENO FOR HELP IN RETURNING HIM TO FATHER;
NO PLANS HAVE BEEN ANNOUNCED FOR THEM TO VISIT GRANDSON IN MIAMI

BYLINE: The Associated Press

SECTION: NEWS, Pg. A3

LENGTH: 675 words

DATELINE: WASHINGTON


Elian Gonzalez's grandmothers, said to be crying as they told Attorney General
Janet Reno in a private meeting "how much they are suffering," appealed for help
Saturday in reuniting him with his father in Cuba.

The grandmothers gave Reno a letter expressing the wish that Elian be returned
to "the normality of life with his father, brother, family, friends at schools,
his toys, dog and parrot."

Elian has been in the custody of relatives in Miami since Nov. 25, when he was
found clinging to an inner tube off the coast of Florida. A boat taking him to
the United States capsized, killing his mother, her boyfriend and nine other
people.

Reno, who has supported Elian's return to Cuba, said in a written statement that
the grandmothers "made a very compassionate and heartfelt plea" but that the
matter now is in federal court. One source familiar with the meeting, speaking
only on condition of anonymity, said the grandmothers were in tears through much
of the meeting.

"We maintain that the law recognizes the unique relationship between parent and
child and that family reunification has long been a cornerstone" of U.S.
immigration law as well as Immigration and Naturalization Service practice,
Reno's statement said.

Attorneys for the boy's relatives in Florida have asked a federal judge to
prevent his return at least until he has an asylum hearing.

Mariela Quintana, the boy's paternal grandmother, and maternal grandmother
Raquel Rodriguez did not speak to reporters after the 45-minute meeting at the
Justice Department. But their three-paragraph letter was released, and officials
of the U.S. and Cuban Council of Churches described their sentiments afterward.

"The two grandmothers expressed how much they are suffering because of this
separation from their family on behalf of Elian Gonzalez," the Very Rev. Oden
Marichal, head of the Cuban church group, told reporters.

The immigration agency has ordered the boy returned to Cuba. Reno has agreed,
saying the youngster belongs with his father in the communist island where he
was reared. The grandmothers sought the meeting with Reno and Doris Meissner,
the immigration agency commissioner, U.S. officials said.

Officials from National Council of Churches, which represent mainline Protestant
denominations, have been serving as the grandmothers' hosts during their stay of
undetermined length in the United States.

The Rev. Bob Edgar, a former Democratic House member and general secretary of
the church organization, said the grandmothers "shared with the attorney general
their pain in the loss of this grandchild. Both grandmothers articulated as
clearly as anyone could the hunger and passion that they have to return their
grandchild to Cuba."

Edgar said the grandmothers' only plans so far were to return Saturday to New
York City. No plans have been announced for the women to visit the boy or to
return home.

The women must go to Miami to visit Elian, said Armando Gutierrez, spokesman for
the Florida relatives caring for the youngster.

"The doors are open and the welcome mats are out. The family would love for them
to come here to Miami. In fact, they are surprised they went to New York and
Washington and have not come here," he said Saturday.

The grandmothers so far have chosen to avoid Miami, where Cuban immigrants
staged massive protests after the immigration ruling.

The fight has escalated far beyond a family feud, becoming the latest
centerpiece of the decades-long battle between anti-Castro Cubans and Cuban
President Fidel Castro.

The grandmothers' letter said Elian's stay in the United States "adds to the
tragedy of the family over the loss" of the boy's mother, Elizabeth.

They expressed gratitude that the U.S. government had affirmed the paternity
rights of father Juan Miguel Gonzalez, but expressed frustration over the
prolonged custody fight.

"We ask that you return Elian to his immediate family and not to his distant
family where there had not been a previous relationship," the grandmothers
wrote.

LOAD-DATE: January 23, 2000

LANGUAGE: English

GRAPHIC: PHOTO Photo from THE ASSOCIATED PRESS - Raquel Rodriguez (left) and
Mariela Quintana, who are Elian Gonzalez's grandmothers, board a plane in
Washington Saturday after meeting with Attorney General Janet Reno.

                  Copyright 2000 St. Louis Post-Dispatch, Inc.


                              143 of 457 DOCUMENTS

                       St. Louis Post-Dispatch (Missouri)

                January 23, 2000, Sunday, FIVE STAR LIFT EDITION

BUCHANAN'S CALL FOR DEBATE ON IMMIGRATION LIKELY WILL GO UNHEEDED

BYLINE: Philip Dine

SECTION: NEWS, Pg. A8

LENGTH: 702 words

DATELINE: WASHINGTON


Pat Buchanan, who would be president, says that "mass immigration" is
splintering American culture and contributing to a host of social ills,
including crime, lower wages and the formation of ethnic ghettos.

Buchanan, a candidate for the Reform Party nomination, said last week in
California that immigration should be reduced, lest the United States become
"balkanized."

At the very least, he says, there should be a public debate on immigration
policy.

Buchanan may well be right in his call for more discussion. But it's unlikely to
happen anytime soon. And to some extent, Buchanan and those who feel -- and talk
-- as he does are responsible.

First, some background. America has always been a nation of immigrants, but in
the past three decades, immigration to the United States has been marked by its
size, diversity and sustained nature.

That stems largely from the Immigration Act of 1965, which abolished national
quotas that for decades favored Europeans and kept the volume relatively low.
With the overhaul, people from poor and large countries suddenly had hopes of
getting in, and many jumped at the chance. The law also made it easier for new
immigrants to bring in relatives, leading to a widening circle of family
reunifications. The economic needs of the United States have in many instances
taken a back seat to the admission of family members regardless of job skills.

The policy changes in 1965 were borne of the civil rights and
anti-discrimination environment of the Kennedy-Johnson era, and they had
consequences that were unforeseen. Supporters didn't anticipate, for instance,
that annual immigration flows would rise as high as 1.5 million a year or that
the admission of family members would spiral.

In recent years, as coastal and border areas have considered ballot measures
restricting services to newcomers, many immigrants have sought locales where the
issue is quieter and hostility is less noticeable.

This secondary migration is a key reason that St. Louis has seen a striking rise
in the number of immigrants over the past decade.

Though the immigration flow to Midwestern cities is drawing little attention, it
affects institutions ranging from schools to health care providers to police.

Stephen Camarota, research director of the Center for Immigration Studies in
Washington, says that America's projected population growth to 404 million by
mid-century from 275 million includes nearly 80 million new immigrants. And that
doesn't count the recent growth spurred by immigrants and their offspring.

"There probably is no single issue as important as immigration, because it
affects so many aspects of our lives," Camarota says, citing poverty rates, the
medically uninsured and growth in the school-age population as well as sprawl
and congestion. His group believes that if U.S. demographics are to continue
being altered, it ought to be made clear to people that this is not an
inevitable process but rather the result of government policies that should be
debated.

But, he complains, such reasoned debate is absent from current political
campaigns. Camarota attributes this to political self-interest by the major
parties and to political correctness.

"Democrats assume that anyone who discusses immigration does so out of racial
animus," Camarota says. The party gets much of its support from immigrants, he
says.

Republicans, meanwhile, hope to appeal to Hispanic voters, and business owners
often like immigration because it offers inexpensive labor, Camarota says.

"There's just nobody on the national level talking about it" other than
Buchanan, Camarota says.

The problem is that Buchanan brings much baggage from past incendiary remarks
about Hispanic and Asian immigrants, about blacks and Jews, about supposed
problems in assimilating non-Europeans. And he recently has called for tougher
border controls with Mexico and blasted Chinese restaurateurs in America's
malls.

To many, that makes Buchanan easy to dismiss on immigration. Other politicians,
meanwhile, shy away from the issue. And so it appears that once again, an
election cycle will take place with no discussion of a key aspect of American
life and policy.

LOAD-DATE: January 23, 2000

LANGUAGE: English

TYPE: Window On Washington Column

                  Copyright 2000 St. Louis Post-Dispatch, Inc.


                              144 of 457 DOCUMENTS

                       St. Louis Post-Dispatch (Missouri)

                February 4, 2000, Friday, FIVE STAR LIFT EDITION

CANADA IS NOT LAX IN COMBATING TERRORISM

BYLINE: Raymond Chretien

SECTION: EDITORIAL, Pg. B7

LENGTH: 502 words



INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS

THERE has been a good deal of coverage of recent arrests at the Canada-U.S.
border, some of it suggesting that Canada is doing less than its fair share in
protecting both our countries from terrorists. The opposite is, in fact, true:
Canada is the United States' best ally in the fight against terrorism. Within
hours of these arrests, our law enforcement agencies launched a major joint
investigation that rapidly identified and linked suspected terrorists across the
continent. Canada and the United States share the same concerns about terrorism
and the two-way movement of terrorists between our countries. When it comes to
denying admission to or removing foreign terrorists, Canada has one of the most
aggressive immigration laws in the world, which is strictly enforced by
experienced and dedicated professionals.

The United States cooperates more closely on counter-terrorism with Canada than
with any other country in the world. Philip C. Wilcox Jr., the former U.S.
ambassador-at-large and coordinator for counterterrorism, has praised Canada's
cooperation and effectiveness in working with the United States to combat
terrorism. Canada aggressively identifies, refuses admission to and deports
known and suspected terrorists. In fact, Canada's Immigration Act inspired
several provisions of the U.S. anti-terrorism act of 1996.

It has been widely reported that a large number of terrorist organizations have
adherents in Canada. But these same organizations are also present in the United
States. This is the price that Canada, like the United States, pays for being a
free and democratic country with a strong commitment to human rights and the
rule of law. Against this background, the best enforcement strategy against
terrorists is a regional one that focuses key screening efforts at our two
countries' external borders. To this end, we systematically and regularly share
information on known or suspected terrorists to screen out people who apply for
a visa or seek admission at a port of entry. We cooperate and exchange this
information, not simply because we have a mutual interest in safeguarding our
populations and critical assets, but because as friends and neighbors we are
committed to protecting each other.

This cooperation produces results. For example, suspected terrorist Rahim Hani
Al Sayegh, who was recently deported from the United States to Saudi Arabia, had
earlier been deported from Canada to the United States at the request of the
U.S. Government (Al Sayegh was initially picked up by Canadian authorities after
entering Canada from the United States).

Canada recognizes that terrorism is a serious international threat that
like-minded countries must work together to combat. Recent arrests along our
shared border reinforce the importance of continued vigilance. Given our
unparalleled cooperation, Americans can rest assured that Canada is a strong and
reliable partner of the United States in the fight against terrorism.

LOAD-DATE: February 4, 2000

LANGUAGE: English

TYPE: Commentary Column

                  Copyright 2000 St. Louis Post-Dispatch, Inc.


                              145 of 457 DOCUMENTS

                       St. Louis Post-Dispatch (Missouri)

                February 4, 2000, Friday, FIVE STAR LIFT EDITION

CANADA IS NOT LAX IN COMBATING TERRORISM

BYLINE: Raymond Chretien

SECTION: EDITORIAL, Pg. B7

LENGTH: 502 words



INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS

THERE has been a good deal of coverage of recent arrests at the Canada-U.S.
border, some of it suggesting that Canada is doing less than its fair share in
protecting both our countries from terrorists. The opposite is, in fact, true:
Canada is the United States' best ally in the fight against terrorism. Within
hours of these arrests, our law enforcement agencies launched a major joint
investigation that rapidly identified and linked suspected terrorists across the
continent. Canada and the United States share the same concerns about terrorism
and the two-way movement of terrorists between our countries. When it comes to
denying admission to or removing foreign terrorists, Canada has one of the most
aggressive immigration laws in the world, which is strictly enforced by
experienced and dedicated professionals.

The United States cooperates more closely on counter-terrorism with Canada than
with any other country in the world. Philip C. Wilcox Jr., the former U.S.
ambassador-at-large and coordinator for counterterrorism, has praised Canada's
cooperation and effectiveness in working with the United States to combat
terrorism. Canada aggressively identifies, refuses admission to and deports
known and suspected terrorists. In fact, Canada's Immigration Act inspired
several provisions of the U.S. anti-terrorism act of 1996.

It has been widely reported that a large number of terrorist organizations have
adherents in Canada. But these same organizations are also present in the United
States. This is the price that Canada, like the United States, pays for being a
free and democratic country with a strong commitment to human rights and the
rule of law. Against this background, the best enforcement strategy against
terrorists is a regional one that focuses key screening efforts at our two
countries' external borders. To this end, we systematically and regularly share
information on known or suspected terrorists to screen out people who apply for
a visa or seek admission at a port of entry. We cooperate and exchange this
information, not simply because we have a mutual interest in safeguarding our
populations and critical assets, but because as friends and neighbors we are
committed to protecting each other.

This cooperation produces results. For example, suspected terrorist Rahim Hani
Al Sayegh, who was recently deported from the United States to Saudi Arabia, had
earlier been deported from Canada to the United States at the request of the
U.S. Government (Al Sayegh was initially picked up by Canadian authorities after
entering Canada from the United States).

Canada recognizes that terrorism is a serious international threat that
like-minded countries must work together to combat. Recent arrests along our
shared border reinforce the importance of continued vigilance. Given our
unparalleled cooperation, Americans can rest assured that Canada is a strong and
reliable partner of the United States in the fight against terrorism.

LOAD-DATE: February 4, 2000

LANGUAGE: English

TYPE: Commentary Column

                  Copyright 2000 St. Louis Post-Dispatch, Inc.


                              146 of 457 DOCUMENTS

                       St. Louis Post-Dispatch (Missouri)

               February 18, 2000, Friday, FIVE STAR LIFT EDITION

U.S. IMMIGRATION SERVICE OFFICIAL IN MIAMI IS ACCUSED OF SPYING FOR CUBAN;
GOVERNMENT

BYLINE: The Associated Press

SECTION: NEWS, Pg. A8

LENGTH: 222 words

DATELINE: MIAMI


A U.S. immigration official was arrested Thursday and charged with spying for
the Cuban government, the FBI said.

Mariano Faget, 54, was being held at the Federal Detention Center in Miami and
was to appear in court today, the FBI said in a statement.

Faget, a native of Havana, is employed at the Immigration and Naturalization
Service as a supervisory district adjudication officer. He held a "secret"
security clearance and was responsible for supervising decisions that affected
immigrants and people seeking political asylum, the FBI said.

"Faget has access to classified and sensitive INS files relating to confidential
law enforcement sources and Cuban defectors," the FBI said. The agency said he
had made unauthorized contacts with Cuban intelligence officers in Miami and in
other U.S. cities.

Russ Bergeron, director of media relations at INS headquarters in Washington,
said he could not comment on Faget's arrest. He said it is INS policy to
cooperate with such investigations.

In October 1998, 14 people were charged in Florida in what authorities called
the largest Cuban espionage ring uncovered in the United States in decades.
Authorities said the group tried to penetrate U.S. military bases, infiltrate
anti-Castro exile groups and manipulate U.S. news media and political
organizations.

LOAD-DATE: February 18, 2000

LANGUAGE: English

                  Copyright 2000 St. Louis Post-Dispatch, Inc.


                              147 of 457 DOCUMENTS

                       St. Louis Post-Dispatch (Missouri)

              February 19, 2000, Saturday, FIVE STAR LIFT EDITION

FBI USED TRAP TO CATCH U.S. OFFICIAL CHARGED WITH SPYING FOR CUBA

BYLINE: The Associated Press

SECTION: NEWS, Pg. 4

LENGTH: 512 words

DATELINE: MIAMI


* He was arrested after passing along phony information about an impending
defection, the agency said.

A U.S. immigration official charged with spying for Cuba was arrested after
falling into a trap set by the FBI, investigators said Friday.

The FBI said it fed Mariano Faget phony information about an impending defection
and then caught him passing it on just 12 minutes later to a contact with ties
to the Cuban government.

Faget, 54, a Cuban-born supervisor in the Miami office of the Immigration and
Naturalization Service, may have been passing on classified information about
Cuban defectors for some time, authorities said.

According to court papers, Faget met with Cuban intelligence officials in Miami
on at least two occasions, contacted officials with the agency that represents
Cuba in Washington and had regular contact with the man he called last week in
the sting - a New York businessman with ties to the Cuban government.

Authorities said they had been investigating Faget for a year but wouldn't say
how long they believe he may had been passing on classified information. They
also said they were uncertain about the effects of his alleged espionage -
whether any Cubans were prevented from coming to the United States or even
killed, for example.

Faget (pronounced fy-EHT'), who was arrested Thursday, is charged with violating
the federal Espionage Act and making false statements to a federal officer. The
first charge carries up to 10 years in prison; the second could bring five
years.

Appearing in court Friday, Faget was ordered held until a bail hearing Thursday.

Defense attorney Joel Kaplan would not comment, nor would Faget's family members
and friends.

Federal prosecutors said they will ask that Faget be held as a flight risk and a
danger to the community.

Faget began working for the INS as a clerk 34 years ago, INS district director
Bob Wallis said. He would have been eligible for retirement next month.

As a supervisory district adjudication officer for the INS, Faget had "secret"
security clearance and oversaw decisions that affected the residency status of
immigrants, the FBI said.

FBI spokesman Paul Mallett said Faget waited only 12 minutes Feb. 11 before he
passed on the phony information that a Cuban official was about to defect.

According to court papers, INS and FBI officials showed Faget pictures of a
Cuban intelligence official he knew, and told Faget that the man wanted to
defect and that the information was secret and very sensitive.

After the meeting, Faget returned to his office and used his personal cell phone
to call the New York businessman.

"Faget told the businessman that 'a person we both know' was 'one of the ones
working with the Americans,'" U.S. Attorney Thomas Scott said in a statement.
"Faget then identified the Cuban intelligence officer by name."

Later, Faget called the man from home and discussed the case in more detail, the
FBI said.

A spokesman for Cuban Interests Section declined to comment. The White House
also had no immediate comment.

LOAD-DATE: February 19, 2000

LANGUAGE: English

                  Copyright 2000 St. Louis Post-Dispatch, Inc.


                              148 of 457 DOCUMENTS

                       St. Louis Post-Dispatch (Missouri)

              February 19, 2000, Saturday, FIVE STAR LIFT EDITION

JUDGE BALKS AT RULING IN SOMALI'S DEPORTATION CASE

BYLINE: The Associated Press

SECTION: NEWS, Pg. 19

LENGTH: 390 words

DATELINE: MIAMI


* The teen-ager says he has no relatives alive in his homeland, but the federal
judge says he lacks jurisdiction.

A federal judge refused on Friday to get involved in the case of a 17-year-old
boy fighting deportation to Somalia.

The case involves one of the legal issues at the center of the case of Elian
Gonzalez, the Cuban boy rescued off Florida.

In Friday's case, U.S. District Judge Alan Gold ruled that he lacked
jurisdiction to help the teen-ager, who is known in court only as "Abdul" and
who says he knows of no relatives left alive in his homeland. Abdul had asked
the judge to order his case heard in state court.

The judge said that even if he had the authority to intervene, the U.S.
Immigration and Naturalization Service had acted properly in deciding to send
the teen-ager back to Somalia.

The question of jurisdiction also figures in Elian's case, which will be argued
Tuesday before a different federal judge.

Abdul flew into Miami by himself on Dec. 23. He has said that he and his father
were separated from his mother and two brothers by war in 1990, and he told
immigration officials that he had seen bandits kill his father in 1996.

He wanted a state court to declare him a ward of the state and let him remain in
the United States, on the ground of abandonment by his parents.

But federal prosecutors argued that allowing anyone but the immigration agency
to decide the boy's status would "thwart the intent of Congress."

Lawyer Cheryl Little argued Abdul's case. She said that because of Friday's
ruling - and because Abdul turns 18 today - he would now have to pursue a
political asylum claim.

Little said, "It's much more difficult for him to win his case, because he has
to prove he has a well-founded fear of persecution."

After the ruling, a dentist working for the immigration agency examined Abdul
and concluded from his teeth that he was an adult and thus subject to federal
rules governing adults. Abdul was transferred to an immigration detention center
for adults.

Originally, Abdul's request to remain in the United States was turned down by
the agency's Mariano Faget. On Thursday, authorities arrested Faget and accused
him of having turned over sensitive data to Cuban intelligence agents.

But on Friday, the judge said the arrest had no bearing on Abdul's case.

LOAD-DATE: February 19, 2000

LANGUAGE: English

                  Copyright 2000 St. Louis Post-Dispatch, Inc.


                              149 of 457 DOCUMENTS

                       St. Louis Post-Dispatch (Missouri)

               February 20, 2000, Sunday, FIVE STAR LIFT EDITION

STATE DEPT. EXPELS CUBAN DIPLOMAT LINKED TO U.S. IMMIGRATION OFFICIAL;
OFFICIAL WAS ARRESTED ON SPY CHARGES IN STING IN MIAMI

BYLINE: From News Services

SECTION: NEWS, Pg. A14

LENGTH: 448 words

DATELINE: WASHINGTON


The State Department ordered the expulsion Saturday of a Cuban diplomat linked
to the Cuban-born U.S. immigration official arrested in Miami on spy charges.

The diplomat, whose name was not released, was given seven days to leave the
country, spokesman James Foley said.

The Cuban official was ordered out of the country for activities "incompatible
with his diplomatic status," Foley said.

Although Foley did not go into detail, the diplomat apparently was a Washington
contact of Mariano Faget, a 34-year veteran of the Immigration and
Naturalization Service who was arrested Thursday night as the result of a
government sting operation.

Faget, 54, a supervisor in the Miami office of the INS, may have been passing
classified information about Cuban defectors for some time, authorities said.

According to court papers, Faget met with Cuban intelligence officials in Miami
on at least two occasions, contacted officials with the Cuban mission in
Washington and had regular contact with a man he called last week in the sting -
a New York businessman with ties to the Cuban government.

Foley said the State Department acted against the Cuban diplomat in response to
evidence presented by the FBI.

Felix Wilson, the acting head of the Cuban diplomatic mission, formally known as
the Cuban interests section, was summoned to the State Department on Saturday
afternoon and informed of the expulsion order.

Foley said the diplomat was expected to leave the country as requested.

A news release from the Cuban diplomatic mission offered no comment on the
ordered expulsion but said the allegation of Cuban espionage is a "colossal
slander." It said the purpose of the Cuban mission is to promote better
relations between the United States and Cuba.

A spokesman at the Cuban mission said the latest turn in the spy case was "a
smoke screen" to distract attention from the custody dispute over Elian
Gonzalez, survivor of a shipwreck that killed his mother while fleeing Cuba.

This is believed to be the first Cuban diplomat asked to leave the United States
since 1996. Then, the mission spokesman, Jose Luis Ponce, was asked to leave in
retaliation for the expulsion of an American diplomat from Havana.

The United States severed diplomatic ties with Cuba in 1961 and has maintained
an economic embargo against Cuba for nearly four decades.

Faget, the immigration official now charged with spying, was arrested after
falling into a trap set by the FBI, investigators said Friday. The FBI said it
fed him phony information about a pending defection and then caught him passing
it on just 12 minutes later to a contact with ties to the Cuban government.

LOAD-DATE: February 20, 2000

LANGUAGE: English

                  Copyright 2000 St. Louis Post-Dispatch, Inc.


                              150 of 457 DOCUMENTS

                       St. Louis Post-Dispatch (Missouri)

               February 27, 2000, Sunday, EARLY FIVE STAR EDITION

DIPLOMAT DENIES CHARGES, WILL GO ON HUNGER STRIKE;
CUBAN REFUSES TO LEAVE U.S., BUT FBI WAS PLANNING TO FLY HIM OUT, OFFICIALS;
SAY

BYLINE: The Associated Press

SECTION: NEWS, Pg. A5

LENGTH: 359 words

DATELINE: WASHINGTON


A Cuban diplomat ignored a State Department demand that he leave the country and
proclaimed himself on a hunger strike Saturday to contest allegations that link
him with a U.S. immigration official charged with spying for Cuba.

But the FBI made plans for taking the official into custody, and he was expected
to be put on plane out of Washington on Saturday night, officials said.

"I declare myself in a hunger strike until I have been absolutely cleared of the
accusations brought against me," Jose Imperatori, 46, said in a news conference,
less than three hours before the State Department's deadline for him to leave
the United States.

This past week, James Rubin, the State Department spokesman, said Imperatori
could be subject to arrest once his diplomatic immunity had expired.

Imperatori's decision not to return came as no surprise, as Cuban officials
signaled all week that they did not intend to abide by the deportation order.

Imperatori spoke with indignation about his alleged illicit links with Mariano
Faget, a Cuban-born, 13-year veteran of the Immigration and Naturalization
Service who has been charged with spying.

Kurt Schmoke, a former mayor of Baltimore who has been retained by the Cuban
government to defend Imperatori, said his client planned a liquids-only diet
until his name was cleared.

Later, at a separate news conference, Fernando Remirez, head of Cuba's
diplomatic mission, acknowledged that Imperatori had maintained contacts with
Faget. But he said they were no different from the kinds of aboveboard
relationships the Cuban mission maintains with many Cuban-Americans and other
Americans.

Hours after Remirez spoke, Schmoke told reporters outside Imperatori's apartment
building he expected that the diplomat would be flown to an unidentified city
late Saturday and then take a separate flight to Havana.

On Saturday morning, Imperatori gave Remirez his resignation as consular affairs
officer, leaving him without diplomatic immunity 6 1/2 hours before the official
deadline of 1:30 p.m.

Imperatori and Remirez insisted that the Cuban Interests Section had not engaged
in spying.

LOAD-DATE: February 27, 2000

LANGUAGE: English

GRAPHIC: PHOTO Photo by AGENCE FRANCE-PRESSE - Jose Imperatori (left), a Cuban
diplomat to the United States, and his lawyer, Kurt Schmoke, at a news
conference Saturday. Imperatori said he would not leave the United States until
his name is cleared.

                  Copyright 2000 St. Louis Post-Dispatch, Inc.


                              151 of 457 DOCUMENTS

                       St. Louis Post-Dispatch (Missouri)

                   March 10, 2000, Friday, THREE STAR EDITION

JUDGE HEARS CHALLENGE TO INS ON CUBAN BOY;
ELIAN'S FATHER NOW SAYS HE IS WILLING TO VISIT U.S.

BYLINE: From News Services

SECTION: NEWS, Pg. A5

LENGTH: 425 words

DATELINE: MIAMI


With flag-waving demonstrators tying up traffic outside, a federal judge heard
arguments Thursday on whether he has the right to second-guess the Immigration
and Naturalization Service's decision to send 6-year-old Elian Gonzalez back to
Cuba.

Elian's great-uncle, Lazaro Gonzalez, asked U.S. District Judge K. Michael Moore
to order the INS to hold a political asylum hearing for Elian. The U.S.
government, however, asked the judge to dismiss the case.

After the three-hour hearing, the judge gave no indication of when he might
rule.

The boy's fate has been debated since November, when he was found clinging to an
inner tube off Florida. His mother and 10 others drowned when their boat
capsized during an attempt to reach the United States.

In early January, the INS ordered that Elian be returned to his father, a
decision backed by President Bill Clinton and Attorney General Janet Reno. The
order was put on hold pending the court fight.

On Thursday, Edwin Kneedler, a government attorney, argued that Congress has
vested the attorney general with the power to administer immigration laws, and
that "the decisions of the attorney general are subject to only narrow judicial
review."

Attorneys for the great-uncle argued that the INS actions are not ex empt from
court review and that the agency violated the boy's rights by refusing to grant
him a political asylum hearing.

"Any alien that is within the United States ... is entitled to apply for asylum
and INS is obligated to hear that claim," said attorney Linda Osberg-Braun.

Kneedler said that the boy's father opposed asylum for his son and that his
wishes should be respected over those of the boy's great-uncle.

"This is a father closely involved in the child's life," Kneedler told the
judge. "This was not an absent father; this was a present father."

He said INS officials conducted a thorough investigation, which was reviewed by
Reno, and found no basis for an asylum claim.

Outside the courthouse, about 60 demonstrators - most of them suppo rters of
Elian's staying in the United States - waved huge Cuban flags.

One legal expert predicted the case could drag on for months, especially if
Moore orders an asylum hearing for Elian.

In a related development Thursday, Juan Miguel Gonzalez disclosed that he has
hired a high-powered Washington attorney, Gregory Craig, who represented Clinton
in his impeachment trial.

And in an about-face from previous statements, Gonzalez said he is prepared to
come to the U.S. to take his son home to Cuba.

LOAD-DATE: March 10, 2000

LANGUAGE: English

GRAPHIC: PHOTO Photo headshot - Elian Gonzalez
 Father hires high-powered attorney

                  Copyright 2000 St. Louis Post-Dispatch, Inc.


                              152 of 457 DOCUMENTS

                       St. Louis Post-Dispatch (Missouri)

                  March 25, 2000, Saturday, FIVE STAR EDITION

FEDERAL OFFICIALS ASK GONZALEZ FAMILY TO SPEED UP COURT FIGHT OVER ELIAN

BYLINE: From News Services

SECTION: NEWS, Pg. 4

LENGTH: 691 words

DATELINE: MIAMI


* The Immigration and Naturalization Service rejects the family's appeal to put
the custody matter to arbitrators.

Federal authorities pressed the Miami relatives fighting to keep Elian Gonzalez
in the United States on Friday to speed up their legal appeals and rejected a
proposal to let independent arbitrators decide the boy's fate.

In a sign of growing frustration in the prolonged and politically charged
custody battle over Elian, the Justice Department warned the relatives that the
government might take the boy away from them if they dragged their feet in
resolving the case.

U.S. immigration authorities and a federal judge have ruled that the 6-year-old,
who lost his mother on Thanksgiving Day in an ill-fated sea voyage to Florida,
belongs with his surviving parent, his father in Cuba.

The Justice Department late Thursday said the relatives must agree to b egin
appeal proceedings by next Friday. In response, the Miami relatives' attorneys
suggested that a panel of independent arbitrators be set up to decide Elian's
fate once and for all.

That proposal was rejected Friday by the Justice Department.

Amid the maneuverings, Cuban exiles who have adopted Elian as a symbol of their
anti-Castro struggle vowed to begin protests to block any bid by authorities to
take custody of him.

Elian has been staying with his great uncle Lazaro Gonzalez's family in Miami
since he was rescued at sea.

The Immigration and Naturalization Service ruled in January that he should go
home to his father, Juan Miguel Gonzalez, a hotel worker in Cardenas, Cuba, who
wants his son back.

The Miami relatives, saying Elian should not be sent back to a communist
country, went to court to demand a political asylum hearing for him. A federal
judge on Tuesday upheld the immigration agency's decision and urged a swift
reunification of father and son.

The relatives then said they would appeal the decision to the Supreme Court, a
procedure that could take months.

The Justice Department said in a letter Thursday: "We are prepared to revoke
Elian's parole into Lazaro Gonzalez's temporary care in order to carry out
(Immigration Commissioner Doris) Meissner's decision."

But it said it would hold off if the relatives agreed to file an initial brief
with the appeals court in Atlanta by next Friday and to a tight timetable for
the proceedings to move along.

In response, the relatives' attorneys proposed that a "neutral" panel be formed
to decide Elian's fate, starting a week from Monday.

"The family and the (immigration service) would agree to abide by the judgment
of the neutral decision maker and forgo any avenue of appeals whatsoever. The
process could be completed in two weeks," they said in a letter back to the
Justice Department.

It suggested that figures such as former Sens. Bob Dole and George Mitchell
could sit on the panel. They would consider psychiatric reports on the possible
effect on Elian of returning to Cuba and conditions on the communist-run island.

An official in Washington dismissed the proposal. "There's just no place for
that in this situation," he said. "(The immigration service) made a lawful
decision, it was ratified by the attorney general and now upheld by a federal
court."

The relatives' attorneys also said they could have an appeals brief ready by
April 3, three days after the Justice Department's deadline.

But Meissner, the immigration commissioner, rejected that idea.

"This is not an option that we are prepared to entertain," she said. "Our goal
here is to reunite Elian with his father and to do that as quickly, as promptly
and as orderly as possible."

The flurry of developments brought a drama that has obsessed Miami and gripped
many elsewhere in the country to a new stage.

The dispute has been seized on by Cuban exiles in Miami and by Cuban President
Fidel Castro, who has strongly backed the father, as a new battle in their
41-year-old war.

Ramon Saul Sanchez, leader of the anti-Castro group Democracy Movement, said
supporters of the relatives were on "full alert" for any sudden action by the
government to repatriate Elian.

LOAD-DATE: March 25, 2000

LANGUAGE: English

GRAPHIC: PHOTO Photo from THE ASSOCIATED PRESS - Elian Gonzalez walks with his
great uncle, Lazaro Gonzalez, on his way to school Friday in Miami.

                  Copyright 2000 St. Louis Post-Dispatch, Inc.


                              153 of 457 DOCUMENTS

                       St. Louis Post-Dispatch (Missouri)

                March 25, 2000, Saturday, FIVE STAR LIFT EDITION

NATION & WORLD BRIEFS

BYLINE: From News Services

SECTION: NEWS, Pg. 18

LENGTH: 1458 words



NATION

WASHINGTON

Fire at National Archives center was set, officials say

A fire that destroyed thousands of pages of records at a National Archives
storage center just outside Washington was intentionally set, investigators say.

"The investigation has revealed that the fire was of suspicious origin," Mike
Campbell, a spokesman for the Baltimore division of the Bureau of Alcohol,
Tobacco and Firearms, said Friday.

The fire occurred Feb. 29 at the Washington National Records Center in Suitland,
Md., which stores more than 3.7 million cubic feet of records. Archives
officials initially believed that as many as 700,000 pages were damaged or
destroyed. But Susan Cooper, a spokeswoman for the archives, said it now appears
that fewer than 40,000 pages were actually destroyed.

The bulk of the records kept in the area where sprinklers went off were inactive
files of deceased war veterans from the Department of Veterans Affairs.

MIAMI

FBI stands behind charges against immigration official

The FBI, contradicting a newspaper report, said Friday it stood by its charges
that a U.S. immigration official violated the Espionage Act by leaking secret
information and lying about his contacts with Cuban government officials.

The Miami Herald reported Friday that Immigration and Naturalization Service
officer Mariano Faget might not have been spying for the Cuban government as
originally suspected. But FBI officials said he still violated the Espionage Act
by leaking secret information and lying about his contacts with Cuban officials.

Faget, 54, a senior official with the INS in Miami, was arrested on Feb. 17 on
five counts of giving secret information to an unauthorized person and making
false statements. He pleaded not guilty and is scheduled for trial on April 24.

HOUSTON

Rwandan pastor accused in massacre is deported

A Rwandan clergyman accused of taking part in the massacre of refugees in his
homeland was deported from the United States on Friday to face a U.N. tribunal
in Africa.

Elizaphan Ntakirutimana, a 75-year-old former Seventh Day Adventist pastor, is
the first person arrested on U.S. soil to be turned over to a U.N. tribunal,
said Assistant U.S. Attorney Don DeGabrielle in Houston.

He is accused of luring refugees into his Rwandan church, where they were
massacred. If convicted, Ntakirutimana faces a maximum penalty of life in
prison.

Ntakirutimana has been charged with genocide and crimes against humanity by the
International Criminal Tribunal for Rwanda, based in neighboring Tanzania. He
was arrested in 1996 in Laredo, Texas, where he had been living.

TAMPA, Fla.

Class action status is denied in suit against market chain

A federal judge has refused class action status in a sex discrimination case
brought against Publix Super Markets Inc. on behalf of thousands of female
workers.

The 11 women who sued Publix in 1997 did not prove they had sufficient
"commonality," or similar circumstances, and so must proceed with cases
individually, U.S. District Judge Henry Adams ruled this week.

The women were trying to represent all female employees who work or formerly
worked at three Publix manufacturing plants and eight warehouses and
distribution centers in Florida. The plaintiffs claimed that the Lakeland-based
chain discriminated in hiring and promotion practices since 1991.

WASHINGTON

Tyson executive asks appeals court for new trial

A Tyson Foods executive convicted of providing illegal gifts to former
Agriculture Secretary Mike Espy asked an appeals court Friday to give him a new
trial so Espy can testify in his behalf.

Espy, who didn't testify at Archie Schaffer's trial last June, was awaiting a
trial of his own at the time on corruption charges. He was subsequently
acquitted.

Schaffer's attorney, Bill Jeffress, told the U.S. Circuit Court of Appeals for
the District of Columbia that there was no way to get Espy to testify for
Schaffer while his own case was pending.

U.S. District Judge James Robertson agreed in December to give Schaffer a new
trial, saying Espy's testimony would likely result in Schaffer's acquittal, but
Independent Counsel Donald Smaltz appealed the decision.

ANNAPOLIS, Md.

State Senate endorses bill on built-in gun locks

The Maryland state Senate gave preliminary approval Friday to a proposal that
would make Maryland the first state in the nation to require that all new
handguns be sold with built-in locks.

Beginning in 2003, all new handguns sold in Maryland would have to have built-in
mechanical locks that opened by combination or with a key. Until then, Maryland
would join four other states in mandating that new pistols and revolvers be sold
with separate trigger locks.

But the legislation does not require Maryland gun dealers to sell personalized,
smart guns that allow only authorized users to fire them. Gov. Parris N.
Glendening had made that a centerpiece of his gun control package this year but
was unable to gain enough support in the Senate.

The Senate will take a final vote Monday on the weakened version of Glendening's
proposal. The compromise package was brokered just 30 minutes before the start
of Friday's Senate session to avert a filibuster. Both sides predict it will
pass.

==========

WORLD

BERMUDA

13 are rescued from ship that sank in Atlantic

Helicopters rescued 13 sailors found clinging to life rafts or bobbing in the
open water Friday in a dramatic search operation after a cargo ship sank in the
Atlantic.

But Friday night, hours after the bodies of six others were recovered, the
search by aircraft and ships was called off with 12 crew members missing and
presumed dead.

Radio transmissions from the Leader L continued until just seconds before it
went under Thursday night, suggesting some crew members may never have escaped
the vessel, said rescue officials.

Owned by Leoninus Shipping of Greece, the Panama-registered Leader L was
carrying salt from Spain to New York. At least some of its crew were Filipino
and Greek.

SOUTH AFRICA

Student celebration turns deadly at dance hall

A dance hall crowded with celebrating students erupted into chaos Friday when
someone threw a tear gas canister into the room, killing 13 youths and injuring
44.

About 600 students were at an afternoon party at the Throb Nightclub in suburban
Durbin when tear gas suddenly filled the room, causing students to rush out in
panic, said fire department spokesman Jay Kanniappen.

Authorities have not released details on how the 13 died. KwaZulu-Natal police
spokesman Bala Naidoo said a brick wall collapsed during the chaos. Police
suspect that one of the children was responsible for releasing the tear gas, he
said.

NORTHERN IRELAND

Protestant leader says he'll survive party challenge

The leader of Northern Ireland's main Protestant party said Friday that he is
confident of surviving a leadership challenge this weekend, but a close contest
could encourage further infighting about the course of the peace process.

The Rev. Martin Smyth, who is challenging Ulster Unionist Party leader David
Trimble, says the key issue is the disarmament of the Irish Republican Army.

Britain suspended Northern Ireland's fledgling Protestant-Catholic
administration in February to prevent Trimble from leading an Ulster Unionist
walkout over the IRA's refusal to begin disposing of its weaponry.

Smyth has said he would not take the party back into the administration unless
the IRA first starts disarming. Trimble has indicated more flexibility, saying
in Washington earlier this month that the government could be restored if the
IRA issued a firm pledge to disarm.

PHILIPPINES

Muslim rebels threaten to kill hostages

Muslim extremists accused authorities Friday of abducting 11 relatives of their
rebel chief and warned that they will kill 51 of their hostages if the relatives
are not freed. "We will not hesitate to execute all the hostages," said Abu
Ahmad, a spokesman of the rebel Abu Sayyaf group.

The hostages held by the rebels at a jungle hide-out on the southern island of
Basilan include a Catholic priest and students and teachers seized from two
schools on Monday.

Ahmad said followers of Basilan Gov. Wahab Akbar raided the house of rebel
leader Khadaffy Janjalani early Friday and abducted his wife, their 1-year-old
daughter, his mother and seven other relatives. Another relative was abducted by
men in police uniforms riding in an ambulance on Thursday, apparently to force
the Abu Sayyaf group to release their 51 hostages, Ahmad said. Akbar's
spokesman, Hader Glang, denied involvement in any kidnapping.

LOAD-DATE: March 25, 2000

LANGUAGE: English

GRAPHIC: PHOTO Photo from THE ASSOCIATED PRESS - Police in Oshkosh, Wis.,
prepare for rioting students at the University of Wisconsin at Oshkosh early
Friday morning after a celebration of the University of Wisconsin's victory over
Louisiana State University in an NCAA basketball tournament game turned violent.
The riot was marked by arrests and injuries.

TYPE: Nation/World Briefs Column

                  Copyright 2000 St. Louis Post-Dispatch, Inc.


                              154 of 457 DOCUMENTS

                       St. Louis Post-Dispatch (Missouri)

               March 29, 2000, Wednesday, FIVE STAR LIFT EDITION

ELIAN'S RELATIVES WON'T SIGN PLEDGE WITH U.S.;
OFFICIALS THREATEN TO REMOVE BOY THURSDAY

BYLINE: The Associated Press

SECTION: NEWS, Pg. A1

LENGTH: 600 words

DATELINE: MIAMI


With a government deadline fast approaching, Elian Gonzalez's Miami relatives
continued Tuesday to resist demands that they promise in writing to surrender
the boy if they lose their court fight to keep him in the country.

Attorneys for the family and the U.S. government met in the morning without
resolving the impasse, despite threats from immigration authorities to remove
the 6-year-old Cuban boy.

"They said, 'If you don't sign the paper, we remove Elian.' They don't tell us
how," said Armando Gutierrez, a family spokesman.

Late Monday, the Immigration and Naturalization Service warned that Elian's
temporary permission to stay in the United States would be revoked at 9 a.m.
Thursday unless the relatives provide the written guarantee.

Gutierrez said the "blanket statement" that the immigration service was
demanding is "not the American way."

Immigration and Naturalization Service officials asked Elian's great-uncle,
Lazaro Gonzalez, to meet with them today in Miami, at which time government
officials said he would be given another opportunity to sign a pledge to give up
Elian if he loses the court battle.

If Gonzalez will not agree in writing to obey the court ruling, the agency
intends to advise him Thursday morning how and when he is to relinquish custody
of Elian, said the government officials, who requested anonymity. They would not
say exactly what timetable Gonzalez would be given.

Karen Kraushaar, an immigration service spokeswoman, read a statement saying the
Justice Department hopes Lazaro Gonzalez will sign the agreement today.

"While (the immigration service) has always had the authority to implement its
decision, we have gone to great lengths to bring about a resolution that is
carried out in a manner that creates as little disruption for Elian as
possible," Kraushaar said.

"The simple assurances we have sought from Lazaro Gonzalez are that he will
cooperate with an orderly transfer of Elian Gonzalez in the event of an adverse
ruling by the U.S. Court of Appeals and barring emergency injunctive relief from
the Supreme Court."

Elian, who is living with his great-uncle, is being kept home from school this
week. The family spokesman said Elian would not return to school out of fear
that Cuba might somehow try to force him back to the island.

Jorge Mas Santos, chairman of the Cuban American National Foundation, a Cuban
exile group, said he believed the government will think carefully before taking
any action.

"We don't think the government would forcefully take the child," Mas Santos
said. "If they are so confident they will win, then they can wait a few weeks.
It would be a mistake, provoking this family and the community."

Government officials have said they do not want to traumatize the boy.

"From the beginning, we have been mindful of the fact that at the center of this
case is a 6-year-old boy who has been through a terrible ordeal," Kraushaar
said. "We are concerned for him and will continue to try to resolve this matter
in a way that avoids additional trauma to him."

About 75 demonstrators gathered outside the Gonzalez home Tuesday in response to
a call by the anti-Castro Democracy Movement, which urged them to form a human
chain around the home if the government tries to remove Elian.

"The people are very angry, and I think there are going to be very ugly days
here in Miami," said Abel Lopez.

The Miami relatives have asked a federal appeals court in Atlanta to overturn a
federal judge's ruling affirming the immigration service's decision to return
Elian to his father in Cuba.

LOAD-DATE: March 29, 2000

LANGUAGE: English

GRAPHIC: PHOTO Color Photo by PABLO MARTINEZ MONSIVAIS / THE ASSOCIATED PRESS -
Elian Gonzalez, 6, plays with water in a small pool in his relatives' back yard
on Tuesday in Miami. The Justice Department has warned the relatives it will
return him to Cuba unless they speed up their court appeals.

                  Copyright 2000 St. Louis Post-Dispatch, Inc.


                              155 of 457 DOCUMENTS

                       St. Louis Post-Dispatch (Missouri)

                  March 30, 2000, Thursday, FIVE STAR EDITION

CASTRO OFFERS TO SEND VILLAGE TO ELIAN;
FATHER, CLASSMATES, DOCTOR, TEACHERS WOULD GO TO U.S.;
PROPOSAL SURPRISES ALL PARTIES

BYLINE: News Services

SECTION: NEWS, Pg. A1

LENGTH: 984 words

DATELINE: MIAMI


Cuban President Fidel Castro threw both sides in the custody battle over Elian
Gonzalez for a loop Wednesday night with a staggering proposal to send the boy's
father and family, classmates, teachers and pediatrician -- among others -- to
live with him in the United States while a court appeal over his fate is
concluded.

Castro's announcement, broadcast live on Cuban TV, came in the middle of five
hours of tense negotiations between Elian's Miami relatives and federal
officials that failed to produce an agreement that might avert Elian's immediate
return to Cuba. Both sides agreed to resume talks today.

Federal officials, meanwhile, delayed revoking Elian Gonzalez's temporary status
until Friday. Immigration officials and the boy's great-uncle met for five hours
Wednesday and planned to meet again today.

The Immigration and Naturalization Service is demanding that Elian's Miami
relatives promise in writing to hand him over if they lose their court battle to
keep him in this country. The INS had said it would revoke the boy's temporary
permission to stay in the United States today if the family did not agree, but
it moved that deadline back 24 hours.

Castro's proposal to send a virtual village to Washington surprised U.S.
officials who had been monitoring the situation in Miami.

The offer went well beyond Castro's previous proposal to allow Juan Miguel
Gonzalez, the boy's father, to travel to the United States only to pick up the
boy and return him to Cuba. U.S. officials said the scenario is so unusual they
remained skeptical.

Castro himself said it was "like bringing Cardenas to Washington," a reference
to the town in north-central Cuba where Elian's family lives. The offer is
designed, he said, to speed Elian's "re-integration" into Cuban society.

INS Commissioner Doris Meissner said she could not comment on the Castro offer.
"We don't have any information on that. I don't know what to tell you."

State Department officials said the boy's father had not yet applied for a U.S.
visa by late Wednesday.

The boy's relatives in Miami, also clearly unprepared for the offer, had little
to say after their meeting with the government broke up.

"The family is not going to agree to anything that's not in Elian's best
interests, because Elian has suffered a lot," said Armando Gutierrez, a
spokesman for the family.

Under federal law, the boy is legally in the custody of Attorney General Janet
Reno. She has the authority to ignore a pending court appeal and send Elian home
to Cuba immediately.

Reno has said that she would allow the appeal to be heard, but has insisted that
Lazaro Gonzalez, the great uncle who Elian is staying with, sign a statement
promising to voluntarily turn Elian over if the family loses the appeal.

Officials warn of protests

Miami-Dade County Mayor Alex Penelas and 20 other local officials vowed on
Wednesday that local police would make no effort to assist federal officers
should they try to remove the boy before his court case is finished. Florida
Gov. Jeb Bush also issued a statement saying no state officers would assist.

Federal officials said Elian would not be immediately removed from Lazaro
Gonzalez home if his parole were revoked, although the removal might take place
within days.

As Lazaro Gonzalez huddled with INS officials, more than 100 protesters milled
outside his home in the Little Havana neighborhood, chanting, praying and vowing
to form a human chain to stop federal officials from taking the boy.

"We are here to show the world that we're united and that we're not going to
allow Elian to go back to Cuba," said Hortensia Prado, one of the protesters.

Late in the day, a convoy of dump trucks chugged down the narrow streets of the
neighborhood, horns bleating to the cheers of the protesters. The drivers vowed
to block all the streets leading to the home.

Local officials lashed out at Reno and President Bill Clinton, warning that
Miami's Cuban exiles may burst into angry protests if Elian is removed before
his court appeals are exhausted.

"They're provoking the community," Miami-Dade County Mayor Penelas said of
Clinton and Reno. "They keep pushing and pushing the envelope and when it
explodes, no one is going to be able to control it."

After critics said the mayor was essentially inviting the community to protest,
Penelas issued another statement saying police would not tolerate disruptions in
the streets, such as the ones that erupted in January after the initial decision
by federal officials that Elian should go back to Cuba.

Clinton responded to the comments at a news conference in Washington by saying,
"I like the mayor very much, but I believe in the rule of law."

Although the city appeared on the brink of some sort of outburst, immigration
officials repeated Wednesday that even if the deadline comes and they revoke
Elian's parole, they do not plan to immediately go to Lazaro Gonzalez's home and
forcibly remove the boy.

"The obligation is on them," INS Commissioner Doris Meissner said in a
television interview. "They have said they intend to be law-abiding, and we are
relying on them to be law-abiding."

Elian has been at the center of an international tug-of-war since he was found
floating in an inner tube off Fort Lauderdale on Thanksgiving Day. His mother
and 10 other people drowned when their boat sank as they fled Cuba.

Immigration officials immediately placed the boy in the home of his great-uncle,
but in January, federal officials ruled that Elian should be returned to his
father.

Elian's Miami relatives then filed a federal court suit to challenge the federal
decision and to request an asylum hearing for the boy, but last week a federal
judge in Miami ruled against them. The family then appealed to the 11th U.S.
Circuit Court of Appeals in Atlanta, which on Monday set oral arguments for May
8.

LOAD-DATE: March 30, 2000

LANGUAGE: English

GRAPHIC: PHOTO Color PHOTO headshot - Fidel Castro
 He says his surprise offer is designed to speed Elian Gonzalez's
"reintegration" into Cuban society.

                  Copyright 2000 St. Louis Post-Dispatch, Inc.


                              156 of 457 DOCUMENTS

                       St. Louis Post-Dispatch (Missouri)

                 March 31, 2000, Friday, FIVE STAR LIFT EDITION

GORE BACKS BILL TO TAKE CASE OF CUBAN BOY AWAY FROM INS;
VICE PRESIDENT'S STANCE IS A BREAK WITH ADMINISTRATION

BYLINE: From News Services

SECTION: NEWS, Pg. A1

LENGTH: 1237 words

DATELINE: MIAMI


With tension fast rising in Florida over the fate of 6-year-old Elian Gonzalez,
the case vaulted into the presidential campaign Thursday as Vice President Gore
endorsed special legislation that would grant permanent resident status to the
boy, his father and other family members now living in Cuba.

In a dramatic break with his own administration and in defiance of President
Bill Clinton's pleas that the legal dispute be kept out of the political arena,
Gore declared in a statement that "our immigration laws may not be broad enough"
to achieve a just resolution in the Gonzalez case.

If Congress were to pass the legislation, it would move the case from the
jurisdiction of the Immigration and Naturalization Service and into a Florida
family court.

Gore's entry into the case -- which won praise, albeit barbed, from Republican
presidential rival George W. Bush -- came as an impasse continued between
attorneys for the Miami relatives who now have custody of Elian and the INS over
an agreement to turn the boy over. Hours of negotiations in Miami ended with
only an agreement to put off more talks until Monday.

One of the lawyers for the Miami relatives, Jose Garcia-Pedrosa, said the INS
had agreed to extend the deadline for reaching an agreement until Tuesday.

The INS has ruled that the shipwreck survivor, whose mother died trying to flee
Cuba, should be returned to the island to live with his father. INS officials
want a written pledge from the Miami relatives that they will turn the boy over
if they lose their court appeals of the INS decision. They also want the
relatives to agree that there could be a change in custody during the appeals
process.

Those points have prompted an extraordinary show of defiance in Florida against
the federal government, with many state and local officials standing clearly
with the Miami relatives and their allies in the politically potent Cuban exile
community in South Florida.

Amid larger and more vocal rallies among Miamians who want Elian to stay here,
almost two dozen elected officials have said they would hold Attorney General
Janet Reno and Clinton responsible should violence occur.

At a press conference in Washington, Reno insisted Thursday that she will
enforce the INS decision to return Elian to Cuba.

"We're . . . bending over backward, I think, to address the concerns that have
been raised," she said. But asked if she would ultimately push ahead with the
INS ruling, she replied, "You bet."

Gore defied Reno and Clinton by backing an idea that has been introduced in
various bills. Backers say the measures would allow Elian's father to express
his wishes about where he wants to live without the possibility of coercion from
Cuban dictator Fidel Castro's regime.

Campaigning in Wisconsin, Bush called Gore's announcement an "eleventh-hour
position." Bush said he first supported such legislation in January.

"I'm glad the vice president has seen the wisdom of the way," Bush said. "What
he ought to do is convince the attorney general and the president to accept the
same position . . . We'll see what kind of influence he has in this
administration."

Gore aides informed Clinton aides of the vice president's decision to break with
the president, who has urged letting the case move through the judicial and
administrative processes without interference from politics. White House aides
reacted with a measure of disdain, but hardly surprise, at what was interpreted
as a strictly self-protective gesture by Gore.

Democratic sources said Gore's political team feared the Elian case could badly
undermine their prospects in Florida, an electorally rich state where Gore wants
to win or at least force Bush to devote significant campaign resources.

Gore aides denied that the vice president's statement was motivated by politics.
They said he has long been concerned that the immigration law under which
Elian's fate has been argued is governed by concerns over diplomatic precedent
rather than what is best for the boy.

Pressed repeatedly on the issue, Gore has resisted saying how the custody battle
should be resolved, while taking pains to avoid sounding sympathetic to allowing
the boy to live in Cuba. In his statement Thursday, he said: "The real fault in
this case lies with the oppressive regime of Fidel Castro. Elian should never
have been forced to choose between freedom and his own father."

Elian's father, Juan Miguel Gonzalez, has said he wants to live with his son in
Cuba. His attorney on Thursday initiated the process for the father to travel to
the United States to retrieve the boy.

Gregory Craig, Juan Miguel Gonzalez's Washington attorney, tried to apply for
visas for the father, his second wife and 4-month-old son, and "a favorite
cousin" of Elian's. But State Department officials said the request needs to
come through the U.S. diplomatic mission in Havana. They forwarded the
information to Havana and said that if Gonzalez and his family apply, they would
get expedited consideration.

Craig said that his client is "the only person that has the legal and moral
authority to speak for Elian Gonzalez."

"Juan Miguel Gonzalez is ready at a moment's notice to come to the United
States," he said.

Elian's father would travel to the United States as soon as he is assured by the
INS that he will be given custody of his son, Craig said.

On Thursday, administration officials were examining visa regulations to
determine how many of the would-be companions - a total of 31, according to a
list released by the Cuban government - would be eligible to join the elder
Gonzalez.

There are strict eligibility limits for Cuban visas. Officials declined to
speculate on whether the entourage being proposed by Castro would be granted
visas.

Amid the political and legal maneuvering, dozens of demonstrators linked arms
and formed two rows on the street in front of the house in Miami's Little Havana
neighborhood, where Elian has been staying with his great-uncle.

"We will not let Elian's civil rights be violated," said Ramon Saul Sanchez,
head of the Democracy Movement, an anti-Castro group.

Sanchez instructed the demonstrators on nonviolent protest, telling them that if
the police arrived, they should remain seated and hold out their fists if they
were to be handcuffed.

Over the past few days, demonstrators have vowed to lay down their lives to
prevent Elian from being taken away.

Reno, who was born and raised in Miami, said she had faith that Miami's
Cuban-Americans would ultimately accede to federal decisions in the protracted
case.

"The people I know in the Cuban community came to this country . . .  because
they believe in the rule of law," she said.

But David Abraham, a University of Miami law professor, said he saw no
alternative to an eventual use of force by federal agents to remove Elian from
the care of his Miami relatives.

"The logic here was to provide them with lots of due process and they would
eventually reconcile themselves to a loss," he said. "But by refusing to sign
the agreement, they have demonstrated they will not respect the law. When they
lose in court, as they certainly must, they're not going to give up the child."

"In my view," he said, "that means there is no alternative to the U.S.
government using the appropriate force necessary to move Elian in accordance
with the determinations of the court."

LOAD-DATE: March 31, 2000

LANGUAGE: English

GRAPHIC: PHOTO Color Photo Headshot - Elian Gonzalez, Remains in Miami

                  Copyright 2000 St. Louis Post-Dispatch, Inc.


                              157 of 457 DOCUMENTS

                       St. Louis Post-Dispatch (Missouri)

                   March 31, 2000, Friday, THREE STAR EDITION

ELIAN'S FATHER APPLIES FOR VISA; EXILES BEGIN RESISTANCE TRAINING;
GORE BACKS GIVING RESIDENCY STATUS; INS DELAYS ACTION

BYLINE: From News Services

SECTION: NEWS, Pg. A1

LENGTH: 814 words

DATELINE: MIAMI


Elian Gonzalez's father asked for a visa Thursday to come to the United States
and take the boy back to Cuba.

Juan Miguel Gonzalez's request was made as Cuban and U.S. authorities and the
child's relatives and Cuban exiles in Miami continued to battle over the fate of
the boy, 6.

Among the other developments Thursday:

* Breaking with President Bill Clinton's administration, Vice President Al Gore
backed legislation in Congress that would grant permanent resident status to
Elian and to his father. If that were to happen, the boy's fate would be decided
by the courts and not by the Immigration and Naturalization Service.

* Elian's Miami relatives met again with U.S. immigration officials, who have
demanded that they promise in writing to turn over the boy if they lose in
court. The INS had warned that it would revoke Elian's right to stay in the
United States unless the relatives signed this week. But after the meeting, the
INS pushed back the deadline.

* Dozens of anti-Castro activists linked arms outside the Miami home of Elian's
great-uncle, practicing resistance techniques.

As soon as it was made, Juan Miguel Gonzalez's attempt to get a visa hit a
procedural snag. His lawyer asked the State Department for a visa, only to be
told that applications must be submitted to the U.S. diplomatic mission in
Havana.

Gregory Craig, an American lawyer, said in Washington that his client is "the
only person that has the legal and moral authority to speak for Elian Gonzalez."

"Juan Miguel Gonzalez is ready at a moment's notice to come to the United
States," he said.

Craig said he asked the INS to allow the boy's father and other Cuban relatives
to enter the United States and stay as long as it takes to complete the appeals
process. A federal appeals court in Atlanta has scheduled the case for May 11.

On Wednesday, Fidel Castro announced that Elian's father was ready to leave for
the United States to bring the boy home. The Cuban government issued a list of
31 people who would accompany him, including his wife and son - Elian's half
brother. It also included Ricardo Alarcon, president of Cuba's National Assembly
and Castro's point man on American affairs.

There are strict eligibility limits for Cuban visas. Officials declined to
speculate on whether the entourage being proposed by Castro would be granted
visas.

At a news conference in Washington, Attorney General Janet Reno said that if the
father comes to the United States, one option would be to move the boy to his
custody in this country while the appeals court considers the case. Other than
that, she said, "I don't do what-ifs."

The standoff over Elian has been under way since November, when the boy was
rescued while floating on an inner tube after a boat carrying him and his mother
from Cuba sank. His mother, who was divorced from his father, died along with 10
others.

Gore, the likely Democratic presidential nominee, jumped into the fray Thursday
by urging Congress to pass a law that would grant permanent resident status not
only to the boy but to his father, stepmother, half-brother, grandmothers and
grandfather "so that the case can be adjudicated properly."

"Let us be clear that the real fault in this case lies with the oppressive
regime of Fidel Castro," the vice president said in a statement. "Elian should
never have been forced to choose between freedom and his own father. Now we must
take action, here on our own shores, to make sure that Elian's best interests
are served."

The vice president's Republican rival, Texas Gov. George W. Bush, called the
announcement an "eleventh-hour position." Bush first said he supported such
legislation in January.

Florida has 25 electoral votes, the fourth-largest prize available on Election
Day. Democratic leaders have strongly implied that Gore would suffer within
southern Florida's Cuban exile community if the administration forced Elian to
leave the country.

Amid the political maneuvering, dozens of demonstrators linked arms and formed
two rows on the street in front of the house in Miami's Little Havana
neighborhood, where Elian has been staying with his great-uncle.

Ramon Saul Sanchez, head of the Democracy Movement, an anti-Castro group,
instructed the demonstrators on nonviolent protest, telling them that if the
police arrived, they should remain seated and hold out their fists if they were
to be handcuffed.

Immigration officials had threatened to remove the boy from the home this week
if the child's relatives did not agree to surrender custody if they lost a court
battle to keep him in the United States.

Jose Garcia Pedrosa, a member of the legal team representing Elian's
great-uncle, Lazaro Gonzalez, said after eight hours of talks with immigration
officials that no agreement had been reached on the boy's fate. The talks would
resume Monday, he said.

LOAD-DATE: March 31, 2000

LANGUAGE: English

GRAPHIC: PHOTO Color Photo Headshot - Elian Gonzalez, Remains in Miami

                  Copyright 2000 St. Louis Post-Dispatch, Inc.


                              158 of 457 DOCUMENTS

                       St. Louis Post-Dispatch (Missouri)

                April 1, 2000, Saturday, FIVE STAR LIFT EDITION

RELATIVES SAY THEY WON'T GIVE ELIAN TO FATHER IF HE SHOWS UP

BYLINE: From News Services

SECTION: NEWS, Pg. 4

LENGTH: 603 words

DATELINE: MIAMI


* But the Cuban boy's Florida relatives also say they will not resist if federal
authorities try to remove the child from their custody.

Elian Gonzalez's Miami relatives said Friday that they were no longer willing to
hand the boy over to his father if he comes to Florida to await the outcome of
their court appeal. But they said they would not resist if the government tried
to take Elian from their house.

The relatives said that they would let Juan Miguel Gonzalez visit Elian at their
Little Havana home, but that they would not voluntarily hand over the 6-year-old
while they fight in court for an asylum hearing for him.

Elian "expresses fear about being with his father. He's afraid that he will be
punished," said Manny Diaz, an attorney for the Miami family. The family also
feels that uprooting Elian from their home would be disruptive to his
well-being, Diaz said.

Kendall Coffey, another attorney for the Miami relatives, said officials would
have to come to the Little Havana house to get Elian.

"If, for example, the (Immigration and Naturalization Service) authorities
decided to come to remove the child, they're not going to bl ock the door,
they're not going to lock the door," Coffey said. "They are not going to do
anything whatsoever to obstruct a law enforcement operation."

A Justice Department official said Friday that Juan Miguel Gonzalez probably
would be given custody of Elian if he came to the United States from Cuba. But
the official also said it was uncertain whether that would happen right away.

"This is consistent with our goal of reuniting them, which was upheld by the
(federal) district court," the official said on the condition of anonymity.

The Miami relatives "have brought nothing to our attention that would make us
question Juan Miguel's fitness as a parent," the official said.

For months, the Miami relatives have said Elian's father would have to come to
Miami to get his son. The father's initial unwillingness to do so prompted a
visit instead by the boy's two grandmothers in January.

Now, the father has requested a visa to come to the United States to take the
boy back to Cuba. Gregory Craig, a lawyer in Washington representing the father,
said his client was ready to take custody of his son at a moment's notice.

Juan Miguel Gonzalez rejected on Friday a U.S. Senate proposal to give his
family U.S. residency status, and Craig said his client had no plans to defect
from Cuba. Craig said Juan Miguel Gonzalez's only goal was to be reunited with
his son.

"I don't have any basis to believe that Juan Miguel wants to defect or wants to
live in the United States. If he does, I hope he has the freedom, and I expect
he has the freedom to make that choice," said Craig on NBC's "Today" show.

Armando Gutierrez, a spokesman for the Miami relatives, said the strategy was
"harming" talks with the Immigration and Naturalization Service, which have
ended for the week with no agreement. He did not elaborate.

The Immigration Service wants a signed promise from the Miami relatives that
they will surrender Elian if they lose their court battle to keep him in the
United States. The agency threatened to revoke the boy's residency status but
twice this week pushed back the deadline, now scheduled for 9 a.m. Tuesday.

Craig said Elian's father would travel to the United States as soon as he is
assured by the Immigration Service that he will be given custody of his son.
Craig said he also would seek permission for the boy's classmates, teacher and
doctors to travel to the United States to "help smooth the transition."

LOAD-DATE: April 1, 2000

LANGUAGE: English

                  Copyright 2000 St. Louis Post-Dispatch, Inc.


                              159 of 457 DOCUMENTS

                       St. Louis Post-Dispatch (Missouri)

                   April 4, 2000, Tuesday, THREE STAR EDITION

STATE DEPARTMENT GRANTS ELIAN GONZALEZ'S FATHER A VISA TO COME TO U.S.;
CUSTODY TALKS FOCUS ON REUNION WHEN HE ARRIVES

BYLINE: The Associated Press

SECTION: NEWS, Pg. A1

LENGTH: 711 words

DATELINE: WASHINGTON


The State Department cleared the way Monday night for Juan Miguel Gonzalez to
travel to the United States to pursue his quest to be reunited with his son
Elian.

The department granted the senior Gonzalez's visa request along with those of
his wife, their infant son and Elian's male cousin, kindergarten teacher and
pediatrician. The visas for the six could be issued as early as today. The visa
approval was announced as negotiations continued between immigration officials
and the boy's relatives in Miami.

The Cubans' request for 22 other visas -- for Elian's classmates and National
Assembly President Rafael Alarcon, a top aide to Cuban President Fidel Castro --
still was being reviewed. James Rubin, the State Department spokesman, said U.S.
diplomats in Havana would submit lists of questions to the Cuban government
concerning these requests to determine the merits of the cases.

In Havana, Castro joined Juan Miguel Gonzalez and about 3,000 university
students from across Latin America and the Caribbean on Monday for a festive
rally to call for the return of the 6-year-old boy.

Gonzalez, 31, held his 6-month-old son in his lap in the front row of the
audience as the gathering got under way on a new permanent stage built in front
of the U.S. Interests Section, alongside Havana's coastal highway.

Negotiations over the custody issues recessed Monday night without word on
whether progress had been made.

Manny Diaz, attorney for Elian Gonzalez's Miami relatives, said: "We continue to
be first and foremost concerned about the mental, psychologica l well-being of
this young 6-year-old. To that extent, we have spent a lot of time talking about
numerous issues and we will be back tomorrow to continue our conversations."

The Immigration and Naturalization Service had said earlier that it would end
the Miami relatives' custody of Elian this morning if they did not agree to give
him up if they lose their appeal of a federal court decision last month. But the
negotiations shifted Monday to how to reunite Elian with his father when he
arrives in this country. "Tuesday's deadline has been superseded by this change
of issues," a Justice Department official said.

Said Maria Cardona, a spokeswoman for the Immigration and Naturalization
Service: "Our goal is to reunite Elian and his father. The issue is not whether
we will transfer Elian to his father, but when and how."

Juan Miguel Gonzalez has not seen his son since the boy was rescued off the
Florida coast more than four months ago. The child has become the target of an
impassioned international custody fight.

About 150 protesters gathered in front of the Miami relatives' home Monday, some
waving signs such as "Miss Reno are you ready for another Waco? We are" and
"Clinton Coward, Reno Witch, Fidel Loco." The signs referred to Attorney General
Janet Reno and President Bill Clinton.

Protesters practiced forming a human chain and vowed that they would stop at
nothing to keep the boy from returning to Cuba.

"They would have to go over the bodies of all of us Cubans who are here," said
Maria Gonzalez, 70, who is unrelated to the boy. "They would have to kill us
all."

Elian's Miami relatives have said they would abide by any government ruling,
insisting only that the transition take Elian's psychological well-being into
account.

The boy was rescued off the Florida coast on Thanksgiving after spending 50
hours alone on an inner tube. His mother and 10 others were killed in their
attempt to flee Cuba. Since then, Elian has been in the custody of a
great-uncle, Lazaro Gonzalez.

Also on Monday, Florida Gov. Jeb Bush met with safety officials to determine how
to respond to potential unrest if Elian is removed from the Little Havana home.

Despite Miami-Dade County Mayor Alex Penelas' statement last week that local
authorities would not assist the federal government if it attempted to remove
Elian, the county police department said it was ready to respond to protests.

Public sentiment across the country is leaning toward sending Elian back to his
father, according to a poll by ABC News and The Washington Post. The poll found
that 59 percent of Americans said the boy should be returned and that 33 percent
said he should stay.

LOAD-DATE: April 4, 2000

LANGUAGE: English

GRAPHIC: PHOTO Color Photo from THE ASSOCIATED PRESS - This mural depicting
Elian Gonzalez was carried by Elian's supporters to his relatives' home in Miami
Monday evening. The mural was painted by Humberto Gonzalez, who is not related
to the family.

                  Copyright 2000 St. Louis Post-Dispatch, Inc.


                              160 of 457 DOCUMENTS

                       St. Louis Post-Dispatch (Missouri)

                 April 4, 2000, Tuesday, FIVE STAR LIFT EDITION

STATE DEPARTMENT GRANTS ELIAN GONZALEZ'S FATHER A VISA TO COME TO U.S.;
CUSTODY TALKS FOCUS ON REUNION WHEN HE ARRIVES

BYLINE: The Associated Press

SECTION: NEWS, Pg. A1

LENGTH: 861 words

DATELINE: WASHINGTON


The State Department cleared the way Monday night for Juan Miguel Gonzalez to
travel to the United States to pursue his quest to be reunited with his son
Elian.

The department granted the senior Gonzalez's visa request along with those of
his wife, their infant son and Elian's male cousin, kindergarten teacher and
pediatrician. The visas for the six could be issued as early as today. The visa
approval was announced as negotiations continued between immigration officials
and the boy's relatives in Miami.

The Cubans' request for 22 other visas -- for Elian's classmates and National
Assembly President Rafael Alarcon, a top aide to Cuban President Fidel Castro --
still was being reviewed. James Rubin, the State Department spokesman, said U.S.
diplomats in Havana would submit lists of questions to the Cuban government
concerning these requests to determine the merits of the cases.

In Havana, Castro joined Juan Miguel Gonzalez and about 3,000 university
students from across Latin America and the Caribbean on Monday for a festive
rally to call for the return of the 6-year-old boy.

Gonzalez, 31, held his 6-month-old son in his lap in the front row of the
audience as the gathering got under way on a new permanent stage built in front
of the U.S. Interests Section, alongside Havana's coastal highway.

Negotiations over the custody issues recessed Monday night without word on
whether progress had been made.

Manny Diaz, attorney for Elian Gonzalez's relatives in Miami, said: "We continue
to be first and foremost concerned about the mental, psychological well-being of
this young 6-year-old. To that extent, we have spent a lot of time talking about
numerous issues and we will be back tomorrow to continue our conversations."

The Immigration and Naturalization Service had said earlier that it would end
the Miami relatives' custody of Elian this morning if they did not agree to give
him up if they lose their appeal of a federal court decision last month. But the
negotiations shifted Monday to how to reunite Elian with his father when he
arrives in this country.

Said Maria Cardona, a spokeswoman for the Immigration and Naturalization
Service: "Our goal is to reunite Elian and his father. The issue is not whether
we will transfer Elian to his father, but when and how."

Robert Wallis, the immigration service's director for the Miami district, said
late Monday: "Revocation of Elian's parole tomorrow has been superseded by the
expected arrival of Juan Miguel Gonzalez in the United States. Once Mr. Gonzalez
comes, the (immigration agency) will begin transferring parole care from Lazaro
Gonzalez to the boy's father."

Wallis added that the transfer of temporary custody "does not mean that the
child will be immediately removed from the home of the great-uncle (Lazaro
Gonzalez). Instead, it is our hope to begin a smooth and orderly process that
will create as little disruption as possible to Elian."

Juan Miguel Gonzalez has not seen his son since the boy was rescued off the
Florida coast more than four months ago. The child has become the target of an
impassioned international custody fight.

A government official who requested anonymity said it was possible that Juan
Miguel Gonzalez would travel from Washington to Miami to pick up his son, but
not necessarily to the home of Lazaro Gonzalez, the great-uncle with whom Elian
has been staying.

Lazaro Gonzalez said Monday night: "If the father comes or not we don't know,
but he is welcome here. Don't ever doubt the Gonzalez family has their door open
for their family."

About 150 protesters gathered in front of the Miami relatives' home Monday, some
waving signs such as "Miss Reno are you ready for another Waco? We are" and
"Clinton Coward, Reno Witch, Fidel Loco." The signs referred to Attorney General
Janet Reno and President Bill Clinton.

Protesters practiced forming a human chain and vowed that they would stop at
nothing to keep the boy from returning to Cuba.

"They would have to go over the bodies of all of us Cubans who are here," said
Maria Gonzalez, 70, who is unrelated to the boy. "They would have to kill us
all."

Elian's relatives in Miami have said they would abide by any government ruling,
insisting only that the transition take Elian's psychological well-being into
account.

The boy was rescued off the Florida coast on Thanksgiving after spending 50
hours alone on an inner tube. His mother and 10 others were killed in their
attempt to flee Cuba.

Also on Monday, Florida Gov. Jeb Bush met with safety officials to determine how
to respond to potential unrest if Elian is removed from the home in Little
Havana.

Despite Miami-Dade County Mayor Alex Penelas' statement last week that local
authorities would not assist the federal government if it attempted to remove
Elian, the county police department said it was ready to respond to protests.

Public sentiment across the country is leaning toward sending Elian back to his
father, according to a poll by ABC News and The Washington Post. The poll found
that 59 percent of Americans said the boy should be returned and that 33 percent
said he should stay.

LOAD-DATE: April 4, 2000

LANGUAGE: English

GRAPHIC: PHOTO Color Photo from THE ASSOCIATED PRESS - This mural depicting
Elian Gonzalez was carried by Elian's supporters to his relatives' home in Miami
Monday evening. The mural was painted by Humberto Gonzalez, who is not related
to the family.

                  Copyright 2000 St. Louis Post-Dispatch, Inc.


                              161 of 457 DOCUMENTS

                       St. Louis Post-Dispatch (Missouri)

                April 5, 2000, Wednesday, FIVE STAR LIFT EDITION

ELIAN'S JOURNEY;
(ELIAN GONZALEZ)

SECTION: NEWS, Pg. A5

LENGTH: 548 words



Dates in the Elian Gonzalez case:

* Nov. 22, 1999: Elian, his mother and 12 others leave Cardenas, Cuba, for the
United States aboard a 16-foot motor boat.

* Nov. 23: Boat capsizes.

* Nov. 25: Elian is rescued about three miles from Fort Lauderdale, Fla., and
hospitalized. Two others are rescued separately. Elian's mother is among 11
people killed.

* Nov. 26: Elian is released from the hospital. The Immigration and
Naturalization Service releases him to his great-uncle Lazaro Gonzalez until it
can determine immigration status.

* Nov. 27: Juan Miguel Gonzalez, Elian's father, demands his son's return to
Cuba.

* Dec. 8: Robert Wallis, immigration service director in Miami, writes the
father that the agency must meet with him to obtain proof he is Elian's father.

* Dec. 10: Lazaro Gonzalez applies for asylum for Elian.

* Dec. 13: An Immigration official meets with Juan Miguel Gonzalez at his home
in Cardenas.

* Jan. 3, 2000: National Council of Churches officials meet with the father and
promise to press for Elian's return to Cuba.

* Jan. 5: Immigration Commissioner Doris Meissner sends letter to Juan Miguel
Gonzalez, Lazaro Gonzalez that Elian "belongs with his father" and must be
returned to Cuba by Jan. 14. Attorneys for Florida relatives ask Attorney
General Janet Reno to reconsider.

* Jan. 6: Immigration service sends letter to Lazaro Gonzalez's attorneys
indicating asylum applications for Elian were being returned per wishes of boy's
father.

* Jan. 7: Lazaro Gonzalez files petition for temporary custody in state court.
Elian is subpoenaed to appear before a committee of the U.S. House.

* Jan. 12: Reno upholds father's right to custody of Elian.

* Jan. 19: Lazaro Gonzalez files federal suit to challenge immigration service
ruling.

* Jan. 21: Elian's grandmothers arrive in New York from Cuba.

* Jan. 22: Grandmothers meet with Reno to appeal for Elian's return to Cuba

* Jan. 26: Grandmothers meet with Elian in Miami.

* Jan. 28: United States asks judge to dismiss relatives' federal suit.

* Feb. 4: Father asks Reno to return boy to Cuba.

* Feb. 14: Lawyers for Miami relatives argue that the immigration service can't
send Elian back to Cuba without asylum hearing and ask U.S. District Judge
William Hoeveler to deny federal motion to dismiss lawsuit.

* Feb. 18: Reno visits Miami, refuses to meet with Elian or his relatives.
Immigration service refuses father's request to move Elian to another relative.

* March 21: The political asylum suit is dismissed.

* March 27-29: Elian describes in first TV interviews how the boat sank. He says
he doesn't believe his mother is dead, and says he doesn't want to return to
Cuba but also doesn't like Miami.

* Thursday: Breaking with the administration, Vice President Al Gore says he
supports legislation to allow Elian to remain in United States while custody is
resolved in family court.

* Monday: The State Department approves visas for Elian's father and other close
relatives, along with a cousin and the boy's pediatrician and kindergarten
teacher.

* Tuesday: One hundred protesters outside the relatives' Little Havana home
practice forming a human chain, vowing to keep the boy from returning to Cuba.


LOAD-DATE: April 5, 2000

LANGUAGE: English

GRAPHIC: PHOTO (1) THE ASSOCIATED PRESS Photo - People who want Elian Gonzalez,
6, to be allowed to stay in the United States broke through a police barricade
Tuesday to form a human chain around the house in which he is staying. While
they vowed not to commit violence, they said they would not allow officials to
take the boy.
 (2) Photo headshot - Elian Gonzalez
 Center of controversy

                  Copyright 2000 St. Louis Post-Dispatch, Inc.


                              162 of 457 DOCUMENTS

                       St. Louis Post-Dispatch (Missouri)

                 April 7, 2000, Friday, FIVE STAR LIFT EDITION

SNAG DIMS FATHER'S HOPE FOR QUICK REUNION WITH ELIAN (1 OF 2 ARTICLES);
CUBAN FLIES TO U.S., SAYS HE'S IMPATIENT TO RECLAIM HIS SON;
ORDERLY TRANSFER OF BOY IS SOUGHT

BYLINE: The Associated Press

SECTION: NEWS, Pg. A1

LENGTH: 887 words

DATELINE: WASHINGTON


Juan Miguel Gonzalez said Thursday he was "truly impatient" to reclaim his son
Elian, but his hopes for an orderly transfer of custody were dimmed when
government negotiations with the Cuban boy's Miami relatives broke down.

The father declared his love for Elian and chastised those who are trying "to
obtain political advantage" from the custody battle over the shipwreck survivor.

He received immediate assurances that the U.S. government is eager to reunite
him with his son. "It is simply the right thing to do," said Deputy Attorney
General Eric Holder. "The father and his son need to be together."

But Jose Garcia-Pedrosa, the attorney for the relatives with whom Elian has been
staying since November, said the negotiations with the government were over,
primarily because government officials refused to promise that they wouldn't
"take Elian away in the middle of the night." He also said immigration officials
refused to agree to a psychological evaluation determining whether Elian, 6,
should be handed over to his father.

"He has not had his day in court," Garcia-Pedrosa said. "This is a very, very
sad day."

In Miami, Robert Wallis, federal district immigration director, lamented the
failure of the talks to produce "simple and reasonable assurances" from the
Miami relatives that they would turn over Elian. Attorneys for Elian's
great-uncle, Lazaro Gonzalez, who has temporary custody, kept talking about
whether, not how, a reunion of the boy with his father would take place, Wallis
said.

"We still hope for an orderly process. . . . The opportunity to ensure this
orderly process rests squarely with the relatives in Miami," Wallis said. He
added that immigration officials would provide the Miami relatives with a letter
outlining the reuniting process.

Juan Miguel Gonzalez planned to meet today at the Justice Department with
Attorney General Janet Reno, Immigration and Naturalization Service Commissioner
Doris Meissner and other officials.

It was an unsmiling Juan Miguel Gonzalez who disembarked from a small chartered
plane at Dulles International Airport at dawn Thursday, accompanied by his wife,
Nercy Carmenate Castillo, and their infant son, Hianny. "This is Elian's true
family and we love him very much," he said.

"It's been an agonizing experience to see my son submitted to cruel
psychological pressures aimed at influencing his personality," Gonzalez said,
speaking through an interpreter. "Worse still, Elian's been paraded and
exhibited in public rallies and by the media with a clear intent to obtain
political advantage" from the tragedy that befell him in November, when his
mother died while en route with Elian to South Florida from Cuba.

Cuban President Fidel Castro was at the airport in Havana to bid farewell to the
Gonzalez family when they departed before dawn. Juan Miguel Gonzalez spent the
day resting at the suburban Washington home of Cuba's chief diplomat in
Washington.

Later, Reps. Maxine Waters, D-Calif., and Jose Serrano, D-N.Y., came for an
hour's visit during which, Serrano said, Gonzalez showed pictures of Elian and
the family back in Cuba and talked about how Elian slept between him and his
current wife, when she was pregnant with their new baby.

President Bill Clinton, interviewed on CBS, said, "The fact that the father has
come here, and will be in a position to show his concern for, and desire to be
reunited with, his son, should be a big help."

But the Miami relatives were not swayed by Gonzalez's arrival in the United
States.

Lazaro Gonzalez, who has cared for Elian for the past four months, "was almost
in tears" when he heard the father's statement, said Armando Gutierrez, a
spokesman for the Miami relatives. "He felt that that is not his nephew. He felt
that was not the person he knows."

The number of demonstrators around Lazaro Gonzalez's house swelled to more than
200 by midafternoon. Some held Cuban flags; others carried lilies and carnations
- to greet Juan Miguel Gonzalez, they said. "Let the boy stay" was a frequent
chant. From a small radio, the Cuban national anthem played.

Elian's Miami relatives have asked the 11th U.S. Circuit Court of Appeals in
Atlanta to overturn a federal judge's ruling in late March affirming the INS
decision to return Elian to his father. Opening arguments are scheduled in about
a month.

Although Holder noted that the government has no written promise from the father
that he will stay in this country with Elian until the appeal is completed, he
and other Justice Department officials said they had been told by his attorney
that Gonzalez was willing to do that.

The government cannot force Gonzalez to remain in this country, but it could
issue a "departure control order" preventing Elian from leaving. "It's very
rarely done, and that's not where we want to go," said one official, who spoke
on condition of anonymity.

Should the Miami relatives refuse to hand over custody, the government has the
option of sending them a letter that would formally advise them that Elian's
temporary care was being transferred to Juan Miguel Gonzalez. Under this option,
the relatives would receive a second letter shortly thereafter outlining when
and where to turn over Elian.

It's not clear what would happen if the relatives ignored the letters.

LOAD-DATE: April 7, 2000

LANGUAGE: English

GRAPHIC: PHOTO (1) Color Photo from THE ASSOCIATED PRESS - Juan Miguel Gonzalez,
the father of Elian Gonzalez, 6, arrives at Dulles International Airport in
Chantilly, Va., at dawn Thursday with his wife, Nercy Carmenate Castillo, and
their infant son, Hianny. "This is Elian's true family and we love him very
much," Gonzalez said.
 (2) Color Photo from THE ASSOCIATED PRESS - As his father arrived in the United
States on Thursday and legal arguments continued over whether to send him back
to Cuba, Elian Gonzalez did what 6-year-olds do: He played on a plastic slide in
the back yard of his great-uncle's house in Florida. Story on A9.

                  Copyright 2000 St. Louis Post-Dispatch, Inc.


                              163 of 457 DOCUMENTS

                       St. Louis Post-Dispatch (Missouri)

                 April 7, 2000, Friday, FIVE STAR LIFT EDITION

ENCIRCLED BY SUPPORTERS, ELIAN AWAITS HIS FATE

BYLINE: The Associated Press

SECTION: NEWS, Pg. A9

LENGTH: 384 words

DATELINE: MIAMI


His father, finally in America, awaited a reunion. Grown-ups in suits argued his
fate in a marble federal building. Demonstrators crowded around his
great-uncle's house, ready for a confrontation.

And at the center of it all Thursday sat Elian Gonzalez.

Watched by the world, the 6-year-old Cuban boy calmly played in the yard as the
intense feelings about his fate swirled around him.

"I'll shed sweat. I'll shed spit. But I will not shed blood," said Thais Cuesta,
16, spending her third consecutive day outside the cinderblock house of Elian's
great-uncle, Lazaro Gonzalez.

On the day Elian's father, Juan Miguel Gonzalez, arrived in the United States
vowing to reclaim the child, the vigil maintained by Cubans who want him to stay
took on a more urgent tone. Supporters realized developments were imminent,
though they weren't sure what was ahead.

Details of the father-son reunion were still being negotiated. But talks between
the Miami relatives and immigration officials broke down Thursday afternoon.

A happy-looking Elian, who relatives say learned of his father's trip to
Washington hours before it took place, spent the afternoon popping out into the
sun-drenched yard, playing on his yellow plastic slide and frolicking with two
girls. Earlier, he ran around playing with a toy gun.

The crowd grew through the day, swelling from about 25 at dawn to more than 200
by midafternoon.

"I've lived a good life, but I'm not going to take my freedom for granted," said
Ailene Morales, 17, a Cuban-American who said her mother attended school with
Fidel Castro's daughter. She wants Elian to stay.

Demonstrators brought posters and signs containing religious imagery.  People
prayed around a 5 1/2-foot black cross with a bloody Jesus nailed to it.

Police have tightened security since demonstrators forced their way through
barricades Tuesday to form a human chain around the house. The barricades were
reinforced with sturdy plastic.

Some supporters have been staying outside the house through the night to ensure
that Elian isn't spirited away. "He should stay here," said Bruno Pozzo, a
15-year-old of Cuban and Italian ancestry. "If he doesn't, Miami's not going to
be a pretty sight - not violence, but we're not just going to let them take him
like that."

LOAD-DATE: April 7, 2000

LANGUAGE: English

                  Copyright 2000 St. Louis Post-Dispatch, Inc.


                              164 of 457 DOCUMENTS

                       St. Louis Post-Dispatch (Missouri)

                  April 13, 2000, Thursday, FIVE STAR EDITION

RENO GOES TO MIAMI, BUT MEETING FAILS TO NET AGREEMENT ON ELIAN;
NO DEADLINE IS GIVEN FOR HANDOVER; TALKS REPORTEDLY ARE CORDIAL;
FATHER SAYS HE'S THROUGH TALKING

BYLINE: The Associated Press

SECTION: NEWS, Pg. A1

LENGTH: 879 words

DATELINE: MIAMI BEACH, FLA.


Attorney General Janet Reno took an extraordinary step to resolve the Elian
Gonzalez case Wednesday, flying to Miami and personally urging his relatives to
end the wrenching 41/2-month custody struggle.

Reno met for 21/2 hours with the boy's great-uncle Lazaro Gonzalez and cousin
Marisleysis Gonzalez at the Miami Beach home of Sister Jeanne O'Laughlin, the
nun who was host of a meeting in January between Elian and his grandmothers from
Cuba. Elian attended the meeting with Reno, moving from lap to lap at the table.

The meeting ended without a concrete agreement to hand him over, O'Laughlin
said. She said the family and Reno were cordial.

"She was very respectful, and they were very honest," O'Laughlin said. "The pain
of this family and their understanding of the pain of Juan Miguel was very
evident. They have expressed over and over again their . . . desire to be a
loving family, whole again."

There was no deadline issued and no letter delivered detailing handover plans,
though O'Laughlin said there was talk of a meeting today in Washington involving
the Miami relatives. She said attorneys for the two sides would speak late
Wednesday or early today. The commissioner of the Immigration and Naturalization
Service also attended the meeting.

Elian and his relatives had left their politically charged Little Havana
neighborhood for O'Laughlin's gated home earlier in the day. She said Elian
would stay there Wednesday night.

One option Reno had planned to propose was for Elian and some of his Miami
relatives to come back to Washington, perhaps even on her plane, to arrange a
meeting with the boy's father, Juan Miguel Gonzalez, and the eventual transfer
of custody, according to a government official, who requested anonymity. Reno
left the meeting without commenting.

"She wants to do anything possible to resolve this," Justice Department
spokesman Myron Marlin said before the meeting. "She realizes it's a tall order
but believes she may be the one who can do it."

The visit at least temporarily postponed delivery of the letter the government
had planned to send the Miami relatives Wednesday telling them where and when to
relinquish custody of Elian.

A Justice Department official, requesting anonymity, said before the meeting
that if Reno and the family could agree on transfer plans, the letter wouldn't
be necessary.

Under a government plan, Elian would be transferred either to his father or
another great-uncle, who would take the boy to meet his father.

Reno had also planned to meet with community leaders in her hometown, where she
served as state attorney for 15 years and where Cuban exiles now wield signs
denouncing her and depicting her with horns.

Elian, clinging to an inner tube, was rescued by two fishermen on Thanksgiving
after his mother and 10 other Cubans drowned when their boat sank.

His Miami relatives have been caring for him ever since and have been f ighting
in court for him to have an asylum hearing. But the Clinton administration has
ordered Elian back to his father in Cuba, saying only he can speak for the boy
on immigration matters.

A federal judge affirmed that decision, but the family has appealed.

Elian's father, who met with Reno after coming to the United States last week,
remained in Bethesda, Md. He indicated Wednesday - the day after a meeting in
Washington with the Miami relatives was scheduled and abruptly canceled - that
he was through negotiating.

"He is going to simply ask now that the attorney general issue a court order and
that the boy be returned immediately to him," said the Rev. Joan Brown Campbell,
who met with him.

Later, Juan Miguel Gonzalez, his wife and their infant son were guests of honor
at a reception at the Cuban diplomatic mission in Washington.

In Havana, Ricardo Alarcon, the senior Cuban official who has advised the
father, criticized the Miami relatives for delaying the transfer, saying they
were showing "a total lack of respect for American society," and "making fun of
the U.S. government."

When O'Laughlin first got involved, she said she had no opinion about whether
the boy should be returned. But after the grandmothers' visit, she said Elian
should stay in the United States - drawing bitter criticism from the Cuban
government and the grandmothers.

If Elian's relatives were hoping for a quieter setting in Miami Beach, they only
partially succeeded.

While Reno met with the family, dozens of police and federal agents kept watch
over about 200 demonstrators. Several waved a Cuban flag bigger than a king-size
bedsheet.

Even before Elian arrived at the house, a crowd chanted "Elian! Elian!" in
anticipation. Police kept the demonstrators across a four-lane road, behind a
median and a barricade.

"Reno, coward, Miami has had enough!" some shouted. Reno left in a motorcade
that included 12 police motorcycles and a dozen cruisers.

At Lazaro Gonzalez's house, protesters were starting to acknowledge that Elian
may be heading back to Cuba. But the attorney general's visit to Miami gave some
a ray of hope.

"Right now she's not the Cuban-Americans' best friend, but that could change
between today and tomorrow," said Rolando Millet, 39. He held a sign: "America
get ready for a miracle."

LOAD-DATE: April 13, 2000

LANGUAGE: English

GRAPHIC: PHOTO Color Photo from THE ASSOCIATED PRESS - Sister Jeanne O'Laughlin
speaks at a press conference on Wednesday after the arrival of Elian Gonzalez
and members of his family at her Miami Beach, Fla., home.

                  Copyright 2000 St. Louis Post-Dispatch, Inc.


                              165 of 457 DOCUMENTS

                       St. Louis Post-Dispatch (Missouri)

                  April 22, 2000, Saturday, THREE STAR EDITION

RENO WORKS THROUGH INTERMEDIARIES, SEEKING DEAL TO TRANSFER ELIAN

BYLINE: The Associated Press

SECTION: NEWS, Pg. 4

LENGTH: 809 words

DATELINE: WASHINGTON


* A sketch of the plan includes an immediate handover, but it has not been
presented to Elian Gonzalez's father.

Attorney General Janet Reno worked with outside intermediaries in Miami on
Friday on a possible agreement that would transfer custody of Elian Gonzalez
from his Miami relatives to his father immediately, a Justice Department
spokeswoman said.

"These parties are still working out the details of such a plan," Justice
spokeswoman Carole Florman said. "It has not been presented to Juan Miguel
Gonzalez," the 6-year-old shipwreck survivor's Cuban father.

Florman would not identify the intermediaries other than as members of the Miami
community. She said they were in contact with Elian's great-uncle, Lazaro
Gonzalez, and his family, who have defied Reno's order to transfer Elian.

But a Justice Department official could not say whether the Miami relatives,
with whom the boy has stayed since he was found in the Atlantic last
Thanksgiving clinging to an inner tube, had specifically agreed to immediate
transfer of Elian to his father's custody.

The insistence of the government and the father on immediate transfer has been
the sticking point in the negotiations, because the Miami relatives have
demanded continued discussion of whether Elian should be turned over. The
relatives lost a U.S. District Court battle, and an appeals court, which ruled
that Elian cannot leave this country until it hears the case, did not bar Reno
from switching custody.

Florman said the sketchy plan presented to Reno by the intermediaries called for
"a cooperative resolution that would include an immediate transfer of Elian to
his father's care."

"The Justice Department would welcome a real agreement that could achieve our
goal of reuniting Elian with his father in a voluntary manner," Florman said.

Juan Miguel Gonzalez and his lawyer were aware that the plan was being worked
on, but had not been presented with any details, a Justice Department official
said. Reno has agreed to present the detailed plan to the father as soon as
possible if one can be worked out, the official said, speaking on condition of
anonymity.

The plan still had significant gaps, the official added, but the intermediaries
were working quickly. The work began even before Reno met Friday afternoon at
the Justice Department with Juan Miguel Gonzalez, but it was not clear whether
any mention was made of it in their 15-minute session.

In the meantime, no progress was made at a secret meeting Friday in Miami
between mediators from the Justice Department's Community Relations Service and
Lazaro Gonzalez and his daughter, Marisleysis, who helps care for Elian,
according to a source familiar with the session.

The meeting was held at a church and also attended by a local radio station
owner. It was an effort by the government to reach out to the relatives, but the
great-uncle and his daughter said they would not turn over the boy, the source
said.

Virtually out of options, Reno also awaited word Friday from her law enforcement
agents in Miami on the best time for them to remove Elian from his Florida
relatives.

While Reno clung to hope for a last-minute negotiated turnover, she could not
give even the father a timetable at their meeting for a reunion with his son.

Justice Department officials said key federal marshals and immigration agents
were being positioned in Miami, where Cuban exiles crowd the street outside the
home of Lazaro Gonzalez.

The exiles, motivated by hatred for Cuban leader Fidel Castro, have vowed to
form a human chain to block Elian's removal. For days, federal agents have been
assessing the crowd's patterns of activity and consulting with local police.

Outside the great-uncle's house, dozens of exiles prayed; others bore 6-foot
wooden crosses representing Jesus' crucifixion on Good Friday. Most of them said
it would be a mistake for the federal government to try to remove Elian by
force.

Before word of a possible deal emerged late Friday, federal officials had said
an operation to retrieve Elian was possible this weekend but was more likely
next week, because of the time required to prepare it and a reluctance to risk
violence over Easter.

After meeting with Reno, Juan Miguel Gonzalez and his attorney, Greg Craig,
walked grimly from the building without comment.

In a written statement, Reno said she told Elian's father "that I could not
commit to a particular course of action or timetable."

At the White House, spokesman Joe Lockhart said a "good volume" of calls was
received on the comment line Thursday night, "overwhelmingly in favor of
reuniting the boy with his father." The Justice Department received more than
7,000 telephone calls after Juan Miguel Gonzalez made a televised appeal
Thursday afternoon for Americans to urge Reno and Clinton to act quickly.

LOAD-DATE: April 23, 2000

LANGUAGE: English

GRAPHIC: PHOTO (1) Photo from THE ASSOCIATED PRESS - Supporters of Elian
Gonzalez's Miami relatives cheer for the boy as he walks to a neighbor's house
from his great-uncle's home on Friday in Miami.
 (Note: the following photo appeared on Page 1:)
 (2) Color Photo by BETH A. KEISER / THE ASSOCIATED PRESS - Supporters of the
Miami family of Elian Gonzalez gather at a police barricade Friday outside the
home of the boy's relatives.

                  Copyright 2000 St. Louis Post-Dispatch, Inc.


                              166 of 457 DOCUMENTS

                       St. Louis Post-Dispatch (Missouri)

                April 23, 2000, Sunday, EARLY FIVE STAR EDITION

EMOTIONALLY RAW, 21-YEAR-OLD COUSIN OF CUBAN BOY LEADS PRESS ON TOUR OF HOME;
AFTER PREDAWN RAID;
"SURROGATE MOTHER" MARISLEYSIS GONZALEZ IS EXHAUSTED BY ORDEAL

BYLINE: The Associated Press

SECTION: NEWS, Pg. A7

LENGTH: 424 words

DATELINE: MIAMI



ELIAN'S CLOSEST MIAMI RELATIVE

Marisleysis Gonzalez shouted like a revolutionary, screaming in a voice already
raw from the emotional drama that unwound Saturday morning.

The 21-year-old cousin who took on the role of surrogate mother to Elian
Gonzalez took the bullhorn in front of her family's house in Little Havana.

"What they did was wrong," a haggard Gonzalez shouted to hundreds of
Cuban-American protesters in the street. "How can this boy be OK when he had a
gun to his head? I thought this was a country of freedom."

She blasted President Bill Clinton and Attorney General Janet Reno's decision to
storm her house, point guns at her family and take the little boy she has cared
for during the past five months from his Miami relatives.

On leave from her bank job, Gonzalez was constantly at Elian's side, escorting
him to school or playfully carrying him on her back.

She was also among the family's most prominent speakers, constantly lobbying
against Elian's return to Fidel Castro's Cuba.

But the continuous pressure and media spotlight appeared to wear on her.  She
was hospitalized at least four times since Elian was placed in her home after
his Thanksgiving rescue.

In between two trips to the hospital, she traveled to Washington to testify in
the Senate on the boy's behalf.

"I don't know how much more I can take," she told The Miami Herald in January.

Saturday afternoon, Gonzalez boarded an American Airlines plane to Washington in
hopes of meeting with the boy and his father, Juan Miguel Gonzalez. With her was
her father and Elian's great uncle, Lazaro Gonzalez, and fisherman Donato
Dalrymple, who found Elian at sea.

Shortly after federal agents stormed the Miami house early Saturday, Marisleysis
Gonzalez led reporters through the disheveled house where armed agents had
stormed in to take the 6-year-old boy and reunite him with his Cuban father.

"They said, 'Give me the boy or we're going to shoot,'" she said a few hours
after the acrid smell of pepper gas had spread through the house and the
neighborhood.

Gonzalez said she begged: "Don't let the boy see this! I'll give you the boy!
Please don't let the boy see the gun!"

Instead, she said, the armed agents in riot gear found the boy in a closet in
her parents' bedroom and took him from the arms of Dalrymple, one of the
fishermen who rescued Elian after his mother died at sea last fall.

"He was screaming and crying, 'Don't take me!'" she said. "I never thought they
would do this to a kid. He's seen so much."

LOAD-DATE: April 24, 2000

LANGUAGE: English

GRAPHIC: PHOTO Photo Headshot from THE ASSOCIATED PRESS - Marisleysis Gonzalez
weeps after her cousin, Elian Gozalez, was removed from her home in Miami by
government officials early Saturday morning.

                  Copyright 2000 St. Louis Post-Dispatch, Inc.


                              167 of 457 DOCUMENTS

                       St. Louis Post-Dispatch (Missouri)

                April 23, 2000, Sunday, EARLY FIVE STAR EDITION

SAGA OF "MIRACLE"CHILD WAS, IN THE END, ABOUT A LITTLE BOY

BYLINE: The Associated Press

SECTION: NEWS, Pg. A5

LENGTH: 648 words

DATELINE: MIAMI


* From a rescued refugee to a global celebrity, Elian stirred emotions and
debate.

It began on Thanksgiving Day, when a small boy was plucked from the ocean by
fishermen. It climaxed on Easter weekend with armed government agents sweeping
in to pluck the child from his relatives and carry him into the night.

In between, the strange, astonishing saga of Elian Gonzalez united an exiled
community, made its way through the courts, left the U.S. government hamstrung
and grabbed the attention of millions.

At the center, a 6-year-old with an adorable smile who had seen his mother die
at sea and clung to an inner tube for more than a day. Just weeks later, he was
sharing birthday cake with relatives he barely knew -- and heading to Disney
World.

America became transfixed. So did Cuba.

Politicians talked about the child's right to stay in the United States. Parents
everywhere agonized over the father's right to be reunited with his son. And
Cuban-Americans hailed Elian as a mystical figure -- a child protected by
dolphins for a special destiny: a life of freedom in America instead of
Communist-ruled Cuba.

In both countries, crowds -- and emotions -- swelled.

"Liberty for Elian! Liberty for Elian!" they cried in Cuba in December at one of
the largest demonstrations on the island since Fidel Castro came to power 41
years ago.

"Finish this tragedy" once and for all, Elian's grandmothers pleaded when they
arrived in the United States in January. But it would be many months, many
demonstrations, and many more legal arguments before the father would see his
son.

The Vatican weighed in, suggesting it could provide a quiet place for the father
and the boy to be reunited.

The politicians weighed in, suggesting everything from asylum for the father and
child, to a guarantee of citizenship.

One of the fishermen who rescued Elian weighed in. "I just think that he could
have a better life here and that his father, if he really loves him, should
sacrifice that for him," said Donato Dalrymple.

And Elian himself told the world, in a homemade video widely criticized as
exploitative, even the result of manipulation, "Papa, I don't want to go to
Cuba."

Barricades went up near the small house in Little Havana where Elian lived with
his relatives, where die-hard believers held all-night vigils, praying for the
child to remain. Some vowed to give their lives for Elian.

Even as they chanted, even as they wept, even as Elian became a global
celebrity, with cameras capturing every expression of innocence and glee as he
played in his yard, courts ruled that Elian belonged with his father.

Still, the relatives and their Cuban supporters remained defiant, clinging to
hopes that their "miracle" child could stay with them, refusing to hand him over
when deadlines ran out, filing appeal after appeal. Finally, a federal appeals
court gave them a victory by ruling the boy should stay in the United States for
now. But it did not block the transfer of custody to the father, who agreed to
stay in the United States until the court case wound up.

Again, the Miami relatives pleaded for more time, and the world watched and
debated: Where did Elian truly belong?

Attorney General Janet Reno, who adopted Elian as a personal crusade, and who
flew to Miami to negotiate with the relatives, had one answer. Elian belongs
with his father, she said, vowing to protect the "sacred bond" between father
and son.

On Saturday, Reno gave the order, and the federal agents moved in.

There was immediate criticism of the move, particularly because the federal
agents were armed. But President Bill Clinton reminded the country that Elian is
not an icon, not a mystical symbol, just a little boy.

"This was in the end about a little boy who had lost has mother and had not seen
his father in more than five months," Clinton said.

LOAD-DATE: April 24, 2000

LANGUAGE: English

GRAPHIC: PHOTO Photo from THE ASSOCIATED PRESS - Elian Gonzalez, 6, cradles his
infant stepbrother, Hianny, at Andrews Air Force Base in Maryland Saturday after
Elian was reunited with his father, Juan Miguel Gonzalez. The photo was released
by the office of Greg Craig, attorney for Juan Miguel Gonzalez.

                  Copyright 2000 St. Louis Post-Dispatch, Inc.


                              168 of 457 DOCUMENTS

                       St. Louis Post-Dispatch (Missouri)

                 April 23, 2000, Sunday, FIVE STAR LIFT EDITION

EXPERTS SAY FATHER MAY FACE LONG FIGHT TO GET SON TO CUBA

BYLINE: The Associated Press

SECTION: NEWS, Pg. A7

LENGTH: 642 words

DATELINE: WASHINGTON



THE COURT BATTLE AHEAD

Now that Juan Miguel Gonzalez has regained custody of his son, he faces what
could be a long legal battle to return with his family to Cuba.

The 11th Circuit Court of Appeals in Atlanta is scheduled to hear arguments May
11 on whether 6-year-old Elian Gonzalez can seek asylum without his father's
permission and whether the U.S. Immigration and Naturalization Service should
have interviewed the boy to determine his wishes.

Legal experts said that the case could end in a matter of weeks or continue for
months.

The court has already indicated that Elian has the right to seek asylum because
immigration law does not specify when a child is too young to have such a right.

The precedent is a case from 1985 of a 12-year-old Russian boy who successfully
sought asylum over his parents' objections. But the court that decided that case
indicated that 12 was likely about as young as a child could be to file such a
petition.

If, after oral arguments, the appeals court decides Elian can speak for himself,
the question becomes whether he has been unduly influenced by his Miami
relatives, who want to keep him in the United States, or by his father, who
wishes him to return to Cuba, experts said.

Although there's no indication that he would, there is also the possibility that
the father, who is in the United States with his second wife and another,
younger son, could change his own mind and seek asylum for himself and his
family.

Who speaks for Elian?

If the appeals court determines that Elian cannot speak for himself, legal
experts said, the question then becomes: Who speaks for him, Lazaro Gonzalez,
his great-uncle in Miami, or his father?

With such a ruling, the father undoubtedly will petition the court to replace
Lazaro Gonzalez as the boy's chief guardian, the legal experts said. The
father's attorney, Greg Craig, has said all along that only the father has the
legal right to speak for his son, and Immigration Commissioner Doris Meissner
has said likewise.

No matter which way the three-judge appeals panel decides, either side - the
father or the uncle - could ask that the case be heard by the full panel of
appeals court judges.

Further prolonging the proceedings, that ruling could then be appealed all the
way to the U.S. Supreme Court, the experts said.

"It's not beyond the realm of possibility. Unquestionably, this case is of
significant constitutional magnitude," said Bernard Perlmutter, director of the
University of Miami's Children and Youth Law Clinic. "It's a very challenging
and profound question that goes to the heart of our whole view of family life as
a civilized western nation."

Will father, son leave U.S.?

Although the father's representatives say he will keep his son in the United
States during the appeals process, and Attorney General Janet Reno has accepted
that as a firm commitment, a lingering question is whether Cuban emissaries with
diplomatic immunity can nevertheless whisk the father and son away.

An emergency order bars the shipwreck survivor from being taken out of the
United States until the Miami relatives' appeal is resolved, but the order may
not be enough to stop diplomats from the Cuban Interests Section in Washington
from spiriting the child back to Cuba, attorney Neal Sonnett of the American Bar
Association's coordinating committee on immigration law said.

Reno pledged Saturday to "take every step necessary to ensure that Elian does
not leave the country while the court of appeals injunction is in place."

Attorney Craig insisted that his client would not attempt to flee with the boy
and would allow the case to take its course through the courts.

"Juan Miguel has made a commitment to stay in the United States during this
appeal, and he will live up to that commitment," Craig said.

LOAD-DATE: April 23, 2000

LANGUAGE: English

                  Copyright 2000 St. Louis Post-Dispatch, Inc.


                              169 of 457 DOCUMENTS

                       St. Louis Post-Dispatch (Missouri)

                 April 23, 2000, Sunday, FIVE STAR LIFT EDITION

RAID ANGERS FORMER WASHINGTON U. LAW SCHOOL OFFCIAL NOW IN MIAMI;
EDWARD T. "TAD" FOOTE II WAS TRYING TO MEDIATE A PEACEFUL SETTLEMENT

BYLINE: From News Services

SECTION: NEWS, Pg. A5

LENGTH: 350 words

DATELINE: MIAMI



THE NEGOTIATOR

Edward T. "Tad" Foote II, president of the University of Miami and a former dean
of the law school of Washington University in St. Louis, was angry Saturday that
federal agents raided the home while he and other were involved in negotiations
with the family.

"There was no need for violence," said Foote. "It's a terrible thing that's
happened."

Foote was part of a Miami mediation group that had formed Thursday. Carlos de la
Cruz, who helped resolve a black tourism boycott of Miami in 1995, called Carlos
Saladrigas, president of ADP Totalsource employment service, on Thursday
morning.

De la Cruz, chairman of the University of Miami's board of directors and
president of Eagle Brands snack foods, had said he didn't like the way the
Cuban-American community was being portrayed.

Foote, de la Cruz, Saladrigas and a lawyer, Aaron Podhurst, met and then called
Reno and asked if she thought it would help if they tried to negotiate behind
the scenes. The negotiations took place with Podhurst as Reno's direct telephone
contact.

In the negotiations, Elian's Miami family had signed a letter agreeing to live
with Elian and his father at a temporary, neutral home in the Miami area, with
Elian's father Juan Miguel having temporary custody.

About 4 a.m. Saturday, Reno told Podhurst, working from his home, that the
living quarters couldn't be in Florida. The Justice Department insisted on a
site near Washington.

While Podhurst waited on the phone for Reno's message to be relayed, the raid
began. "I was totally surprised and shocked when the government seized the boy,"
he said.

Foote, 62, announced earlier this year that he was stepping down as president of
Miami on June 1, 2001. He has held the position since leaving Washington
University in 1981.

While in St. Louis, he also served as vice chancellor and general counsel for
the university, and was chairman of the city-county school Desegregation
Monitoring and Advisory Committee.

He is married to Roberta Fulbright Foote, the daughter of the late Ark ansas
senator, William Fulbright.

LOAD-DATE: April 23, 2000

LANGUAGE: English

GRAPHIC: PHOTO Photo Headshot - (Edward T. "Tad") Foote (II), "A terrible thing"
(Note: this photo appeared in color in the EARLY FIVE STAR edition.)

                  Copyright 2000 St. Louis Post-Dispatch, Inc.


                              170 of 457 DOCUMENTS

                       St. Louis Post-Dispatch (Missouri)

                 April 23, 2000, Sunday, FIVE STAR LIFT EDITION

CONGRESSIONAL REPUBLICANS AND BUSH CONDEMN RAID TACTICS;
LOTT AND DELAY COMPARE MOVE TO TERROR BY CASTRO

BYLINE: From News Services

SECTION: NEWS, Pg. A6

LENGTH: 600 words

DATELINE: WASHINGTON



REACTION FROM POLITICIANS

Congressional Republican leaders accused the administration of using Fidel
Castro's tactics to snatch Elian Gonzalez from relatives in Miami on Saturday to
be reunited with his father.

Democrats on Capitol Hill generally kept silent other than to appeal for calm on
the streets of the nation's Cuban-American neighborhoods.

Sen. Trent Lott, R-Miss., the Senate majority leader, said the armed raid
"clearly was not justified" and blamed President Bill Clinton.

"When I awoke in my hometown with my family today -- Easter weekend -- and
learned of the tactics that had been used to seize Elian Gonzalez, my first
thought was that this could only happen in Castro's Cuba," Lott said. "President
Clinton should not have allowed this to happen."

Rep. Tom DeLay, the third-ranking Republican in the House, accused the
administration of kidnapping the boy, "more reminiscent of Castro's communist
Cuba than the America I thought I knew."

At the White House, spokesman Joe Lockhart accused Republicans of ignoring
Clinton's repeated pleas to keep politics out of the Elian saga. "It's
disappointing that those leaders today continued that effort to exploit the case
of a 6-year-old boy for political purposes," Lockhart said.

Attorney General Janet Reno said she sent in Immigration and Naturalization
Service agents and federal marshals only after negotiations broke down with
Elian's Miami relatives on how to transfer the boy to his father's custody.

"Juan Miguel Gonzalez and Janet Reno have mustered extraordinary patience in
waiting this long," said Sen. Patrick Leahy of Vermont, ranking Democrat on the
Senate Judiciary Committee, which handles Justice Department matters.

Reno and the raiding party "acted professionally as they did their duty to
uphold the law," Leahy said. "It is unfortunate that the Miami relatives made it
necessary to send federal agents to remove Elian."

Another Democrat who spoke out, Rep. Charles Rangel of New York, said the use of
force was upsetting but necessary to carry out the law. Rangel said a photograph
of an agent with an assault weapon pointed toward the boy and a man who was
holding him was overcome by a later photo of Elian happily reunified with his
father, Juan Miguel Gonzalez.

Republicans disagreed strenuously.

Cuban-born Rep. Lincoln Diaz-Balart, R-Miami, said he would demand a
congressional investigation of Reno and Clinton's conduct and wants to know what
was behind the raid. "I accuse William Jefferson Clinton . . . of committing his
most cowardly act," Diaz-Balart said.

Sen. Connie Mack, R-Fla., expressed repulsion and outrage and said the predawn
raid on the house where Elian has lived since surviving a Thanksgiving boat
wreck marked "a tragic day in the United States of America."

Gore and Bush comment

In a statement from Al Gore's campaign office in Nashville, Tenn., the vice
president repeated his previous stand that "this issue should have been handled
through a family court and with the family coming together."

Gore appealed to "all Americans, no matter what their position on this issue, to
obey the rule of law."

His likely GOP opponent in November's presidential election, Texas Gov. George
W. Bush, blamed Gore with Clinton for deciding to resolve a custody dispute "in
the terror of middle-of-the-night raids."

"The moral authority of our law comes from the understanding it will be applied
in a fair and measured way," Bush said. "The chilling picture of a little boy
being removed from his home at gunpoint defies the values of America."

LOAD-DATE: April 23, 2000

LANGUAGE: English

                  Copyright 2000 St. Louis Post-Dispatch, Inc.


                              171 of 457 DOCUMENTS

                       St. Louis Post-Dispatch (Missouri)

                 April 23, 2000, Sunday, FIVE STAR LIFT EDITION

"THIS IS A DAY OF GLORY FOR OUR PEOPLE," FIDEL CASTRO SAYS;
400,000 CELEBRATE REUNIFICATION OF ELIAN AND HIS FATHER

BYLINE: The Associated Press

SECTION: NEWS, Pg. A6

LENGTH: 400 words

DATELINE: CENTRAL AUSTRALIA, CUBA



REACTION IN CUBA

"Today is a truce," between Cuba and the United States, Fidel Castro declared
Saturday, praising U.S. Attorney General Janet Reno and immigration officials
for reuniting Elian Gonzalez with his father.

As the child's grandparents joined hundreds of thousands of Cubans in
celebration, Castro proclaimed the boy's return to his father's arms a reprieve
in the conflict between Cuba and the United States.

"This is a day of glory for our people," Castro said. But he added: "Tomorrow
the battle continues."

Castro called the father and son reunion "a victory shared" with President Bill
Clinton and Reno, along with other U.S. officials and the American people as a
whole.

About 400,000 people were called to a historic sugar refinery to celebrate the
breakthrough in the personal and political drama that has gripped the island for
five months.

Castro praised the consistency shown by Reno and other officials in their
determination to reunite father and son "even though they were scared" about the
repercussions of their actions.

"Today is a truce, perhaps the only one in 40 years -- one day," Castro said.

He expressed delight with two photographs taken after Elian was reunited with
his father outside Washington, saying that images of the smiling boy represented
"no better gift for us."

Elian's maternal grandmother, Raquel Rodriguez, said, "I am very happy that the
boy finally is in his father's arms." Her only child, Elisabeth Brotons --
Elian's mother -- drowned in the effort to bring Elian to Florida.

She and Elian's paternal grandmother, Mariela Quintana, thanked the American
people and officials, including U.S. lawmakers and Reno, for efforts to reunite
Elian with his father.

"Today we spoke for the first time with our Elian in five months," said the
boy's beaming paternal grandfather, Juan Gonzalez. He and other Cuban relatives
had complained that the Miami relatives had interrupted phone calls with the
child.

The grandparents said Elian seemed happy when they talked with him later in the
day.

Castro chatted briefly with the grandparents before they addressed the crowd. He
noted in his address that the rally at the Central Australia sugar processing
center was originally called to mark the 39th anniversary of Cuba's triumph over
an exile army at the Bay of Pigs -- not to celebrate Elian's reunion with his
father.

LOAD-DATE: April 23, 2000

LANGUAGE: English

GRAPHIC: PHOTO Color Photo from AGENCE FRANCE-PRESSE - Two women watch as a man
hangs a flag Saturday in the street where Elian Gonzalez's father lives in
Cardenas, Cuba. A government statement urged Cubans to remain "serene, discreet
and dignified" over the news that Elian had been reunited with his father.

                  Copyright 2000 St. Louis Post-Dispatch, Inc.


                              172 of 457 DOCUMENTS

                       St. Louis Post-Dispatch (Missouri)

                 April 23, 2000, Sunday, FIVE STAR LIFT EDITION

OPINION OF THE RAID WAS MIXED, EVEN AMONG CUBAN-AMERICANS

BYLINE: The Associated Press

SECTION: NEWS, Pg. A6

LENGTH: 684 words

DATELINE: NEW YORK



REACTION IN THE UNITED STATES

It was barbaric, some Americans said Saturday of the forcible removal of Elian
Gonzalez from his Miami relatives. It was the right thing to do, others said,
and the government had no choice.

Reactions were polarized even inside Cuban-American communities.

"I thought that this was the land of the free, but apparently it's not," Rosa
Grabe de Peralta said in Union City, N.J., which after Miami has the nation's
second-largest Cuban-American community.

But Roland Rolo, sipping coffee in a Cuban cafe in Union City, said he
understood the government action ordered by Attorney General Janet Reno.

"You've got a family laughing at the attorney general, and sooner or later
you've got to show them some authority," said Rolo, 44, of Piscataway, N.J. "The
family overestimated their position of power."

Dozens of Cuban-Americans marched in protest outside Cuba's mission to the
United Nations in New York City.

"These kind of storm trooper tactics are the kind of thing that's done in Cuba,"
said demonstrator Rafael Ocasio, 42, of New York. President Bill "Clinton is a
hypocrite. He says he's upholding the law, but there is no law in his
administration."

For others, it was simply time the standoff came to an end.

"I'm glad it's over"

"It lasted way too long," said Maria Bouchereau, 36, of Los Angeles. "I wish the
family had cooperated so they wouldn't have had to go in like that. But I'm glad
it's over."

After the months-long tug-of-war between the family and the federal government,
it took officers only minutes to retrieve the boy from the relatives who had
cared for him since his rescue at sea and had defied efforts to have him
released to his father, who wants to take him back to Cuba.

"The law is the law. You can't bend it. I'm sorry it had to come down to
something like that but I think he's back where he belongs, with his father,"
said Ben Merritt, a bartender from Milwaukee.

It was just a case of politics, said Charles Dooley, one of several vet erans at
VFW Post 1019, in Albany, N.Y., who said Elian belongs with his father.

"It's all just because we're against Cuba," said Dooley, 58. "If it was a kid
from a country we were friendly with, this would never be happening."

Ian Coleman, a student in Milwaukee, saw the standoff as a political battle,
too. "It's not fair to bring up politics at the expense of a child," Coleman
said.

Some people saw it in terms of parenthood.

"The kid should be with his father," said Tom McClean, 41, an electr ician in
the Chicago suburb of Woodridge. "The people in Miami weren't going to give the
kid up. I don't think they had a choice."

"Everyone talks about Cuba being the evil empire, but how evil would we be if we
kept the boy from his father?" asked Tim Quistoroff, 34, a musician from
Chicago.

"Why shouldn't the man have his child? There's nothing abhorrent about a child
being with his father," said Bob Burman, a lawyer in Columbus, Ohio, who has two
children.

"I can't believe what I saw"

But some parents were troubled by photographs showing armed federal agents
taking Elian from the home of his great-uncle Lazaro Gonzalez.

"I can't believe what I saw. And they want to take our guns away from us?" said
Priscilla Talich of Denver, mother of a 9-year-old boy.

The show of arms also disturbed others.

"I don't think the government tried hard enough. It could have been done without
guns. To take a child forcibly with guns is tantamount to kidnapping," said
Misty Sheehan, 55, a college humanities professor from the Chicago suburb of
Glen Ellyn.

"I guess he should be with his dad, but it was a hell of a way to do it. That
doesn't look good for us at all," said Gerard Lombardo, a security guard in
Milwaukee.

"I think it was barbaric," said John Smith, 60, a personal injury lawyer in San
Francisco.

Lillian Byrd was outraged.

"I'm ashamed to be an American," said Byrd, 56, of Huntington, W.Va. "I feel
like taking the American flag and digging a hole and putting it upside down in
the ground."

LOAD-DATE: April 23, 2000

LANGUAGE: English

GRAPHIC: PHOTO Color Photo from AGENCE FRANCE-PRESSE - Daisy Fernandez of
Fairfax, Va., joins other Cuban-Americans demonstrating outside Reagan National
Airport in Washington Saturday in support of the Miami relatives of Elian
Gonzalez. Dozens of Cuban-Americans also marched in protest outside Cuba's
mission to the United Nations in New York City.

                  Copyright 2000 St. Louis Post-Dispatch, Inc.


                              173 of 457 DOCUMENTS

                       St. Louis Post-Dispatch (Missouri)

                 April 23, 2000, Sunday, FIVE STAR LIFT EDITION

THE TUG OF WAR OVER ELIAN

BYLINE: The Associated Press

SECTION: NEWS, Pg. A5

LENGTH: 308 words



Key dates in the Elian Gonzalez case:

Nov. 22, 1999: Elian and 13 others leave Cuba for United States aboard 16-foot
motorboat.

Nov. 23: Boat capsizes.

Nov. 25: Two passengers come ashore; Elian is rescued at sea. His mother is
presumed drowned.

Nov. 26: Elian leaves the hospital, is released to great-uncle Lazaro Gonzalez.

Nov. 27: Juan Miguel Gonzalez demands son's return to Cuba.

Dec. 10: Lazaro Gonzalez applies for asylum for Elian.

Dec. 31: INS interviews Juan Miguel Gonzalez in Havana.

Jan. 5, 2000: INS Commissioner Doris Meissner decides Elian "belongs with his
father" and must be returned to Cuba by Jan. 14. Lawyers for Florida relatives
ask Attorney General Janet Reno to reconsider.

Jan. 7: Lazaro Gonzalez files petition for temporary custody in Florida state
court.

Jan. 12: Reno upholds father's right to custody of Elian.

Jan. 19: Lazaro Gonzalez files federal suit to challenge INS ruling.

Jan. 21: Elian's grandmothers arrive in New York from Cuba.

Jan. 26: Grandmothers meet with Elian in Miami.

Jan. 28: U.S. lawyers seek dismissal of relatives' federal suit.

March 21: U.S. District Judge K. Michael Moore dismisses suit, a ruling appealed
to federal appeals court in Atlanta.

April 3: State Department approves visas for Elian's father and others.

April 6: Juan Miguel Gonzalez leaves Cuba for United States.

April 12: Reno meets with boy's relatives, orders them to surrender boy.

April 13: Relatives defy the order, obtain order that keeps boy in United
States. Miami family court judge rules she has no jurisdiction on custody.

Wednesday: Federal appeals court extends court order until hearing in May.

Saturday: Federal agents seize Elian in Miami; Elian is reunited with father at
Andrews Air Force Base near Washington.

LOAD-DATE: April 23, 2000

LANGUAGE: English

                  Copyright 2000 St. Louis Post-Dispatch, Inc.


                              174 of 457 DOCUMENTS

                       St. Louis Post-Dispatch (Missouri)

                 April 24, 2000, Monday, FIVE STAR LIFT EDITION

REPUBLICAN LEADERS STEP UP ATTACKS ON TAKING OF ELIAN

BYLINE: From News Services

SECTION: NEWS, Pg. A1

LENGTH: 1231 words

DATELINE: WASHINGTON



SUNDAY

Miami relatives accuse Juan Miguel Gonzalez of releasing doctored photographs of
his son and are turned away as they try to visit Elian at an Air Force base.

LOOKING AHEAD

House Republican Whip Tom DeLay calls the removal of the boy unconstitutional
and says "you bet" congressional hearings will review the raid.

Elian Gonzalez and his father secluded themselves from the press and public at
Andrews Air Force Base on Sunday as the boy's Miami relatives and Republican
lawmakers seethed over the government raid to end the bitter, five-month custody
dispute.

After a passionate, 90-minute news conference in which they accused Juan Miguel
Gonzalez of releasing doctored photographs of his son, the Miami relatives were
turned away at the gate of the base as they tried for a second consecutive day
to visit Elian. This time, they carried a bag of Easter candy.

Within the gates, Elian spent a quiet day at guest quarters with his father,
half-brother and his father's second wife, said Gregory Craig, Juan Gonzalez's
attorney. Craig said that the family went for a walk and that Elian was visited
by the base's Easter bunny. Craig released selected photos of their day.

Republican leaders intensified their attacks on the pre-dawn raid by armed
immigration agents and promised to initiate a congressional investigation.

House Republican Whip Tom DeLay of Texas charged that the forced removal of
Elian from his relatives' Miami home without a court order was
"unconstitutional" and "a frightening act." Speaking on NBC's "Meet the Press,"
DeLay added, "You bet there'll be congressional hearings."

Immigration officials said the agents had received a warrant from a federal
judge before entering Lazaro Gonzalez's home in the Little Havana section of
Miami. And the Justice Department released copies of a search warrant, signed
Friday at 7:20 p.m. by a federal magistrate in Miami. The warrant authorized
government agents to enter the home of Lazaro Gonzalez, Elian's great-uncle, to
search for Elian and "to seize same . . . at any time in the day or night"
before May 1.

Criticism also came from Texas Gov. George W. Bush; House Speaker Dennis
Hastert, R-Ill.; and Senate Majority Leader Trent Lott, R-Miss. Lott has
requested that Attorney General Janet Reno come to Capitol Hill this week to
answer to GOP lawmakers.

And even Sen. Bob Graham, a Florida Democrat, chimed in.

Graham said President Bill Clinton had personally assured him three weeks ago
that Elian would not be taken in the night.

"There was an insensitivity, a crudeness to this, to do this at one of the most
deeply religious periods of the year, to do it at a time when families are
reflecting on spiritual values, to do it in the middle of the night," he said of
the raid, which took place about 5 a.m. He spoke on ABC's "This Week."

A White House spokesman Sunday said that Reno had decided to conduct the
operation just before dawn in an effort to minimize the possibility of
confrontation.

Away from the inflamed passions of Miami and Capitol Hill, most Americans
supported the raid and the reunion of Elian with his father. A CNN-Gallup poll
taken Saturday found 57 percent of respondents expressing approval, with 37
percent disapproving. But the same poll indicated that the public was evenly
split on whether the agents, who used pepper spray to hold back a hostile crowd
and brandished weapons inside the house, used "the right amount of force."

In Miami, after a day of violence in the mostly Cuban-American neighborhood of
Little Havana, the city fell quiet for Easter celebration Sunday morning, still
under tight police control after hundreds of arrests Saturday. Later Sunday,
chanting protesters returned to the neighborhood.

The politically charged custody dispute over Elian has aroused passionate
feelings, especially in Miami's fiercely anti-Castro Cuban-American community.
Lazaro Gonzalez and other Miami relatives have struggled to keep him in the
United States.

Nine days before the raid, Reno ordered the boy returned to his father, who had
come to the United States for his son. A federal appeals court in Atlanta last
week ordered that the boy remain in the country until after the Miami relatives'
legal appeals are resolved.

Deputy Attorney General Eric Holder defended Saturday's raid, saying the agents
needed to be armed because of signs that the Miami family or the crowd outside
the house might oppose the removal of the child. Holder also said the Justice
Department had received intelligence suggesting the possibility that the family
or some of its supporters had access to weapons. He said the Justice Department
"probably should have taken decisive action a little sooner."

Holder said the government had sufficient authority to remove the child under
the immigration service's administrative authority.

Holder noted also that the custody dispute had dragged on for five months.
Before she acted, Reno even flew to Miami to negotiate with the family so as to
avoid the forcible removal of Elian, he said.

"I'm not sure what much more the federal government could have been expected to
do," said Holder, also speaking on NBC.

In a news conference Sunday morning, a tearful Marisleysis Gonzalez, Elian's
cousin, disputed reports from government officials and Juan Gonzalez's attorney
that the boy is reuniting happily with his father.

She suggested that a photo released of a smiling Elian in his father's arms had
been doctored. She said that she had cut his hair three days earlier and that
the boy's hair looked too long in the photo.

"I demand to see Elian, and I will not leave until I see the boy," said
Marisleysis Gonzalez, who traveled to Washington immediately after the raid
Saturday with Lazaro Gonzalez. "In the condition they took the boy out of my
house, I know he's not OK."

Immigration Commissioner Doris Meissner said that she had seen the father and
son together and that she doubted whether the photo was fabricated. "I'm sure
it's an authentic photo, but I can't tell you that I saw it taken," said
Meissner, who was interviewed on CBS' "Face the Nation."

Later in the day, the father's legal team furnished the new photos they said
were taken by an attorney Sunday. They showed a smiling Elian with his father,
including snapshots of the two eating a lunch of black beans and rice and
kicking a soccer ball on a lawn.

Craig, the father's attorney, personally delivered the roll of film to The
Associated Press Washington bureau, where the film was developed and distributed
to news organizations. The AP's assistant bureau chief for photos, Fred Sweets,
examined the film and concluded that the negatives were authentic, the AP said.

"Finally, they have some time together, some space together, some privacy
together, some silence around them so that the circus atmosphere and that
environment down there in Miami is no longer inflicted upon this boy," Craig
said.

Craig said that, eventually, the Miami relatives might be allowed to visit Elian
but "I can't predict when or how it's going to be."

He also criticized the relatives for their news conferences.

"It would be appropriate, I think, for them to be in touch with me on that
subject, rather than . . . going out to the base and making claims and demands
against this young family," Craig said.

LOAD-DATE: April 24, 2000

LANGUAGE: English

GRAPHIC: PHOTO Color PHOTO by THE ASSOCIATED PRESS - Elian Gonzalez with his
father, Juan Miguel Gonzalez, stepmother Nersy Gonzalez and half-brother Hianny
at Andrews Air Force Base in Maryland. The photo was made public by Juan Miguel
Gonzalez's lawyer.

                  Copyright 2000 St. Louis Post-Dispatch, Inc.


                              175 of 457 DOCUMENTS

                       St. Louis Post-Dispatch (Missouri)

                 April 24, 2000, Monday, FIVE STAR LIFT EDITION

COMPROMISE WAS NEAR WHEN ELIAN WAS SEIZED, "BAFFLED" NEGOTIATOR SAYS

BYLINE: William H. Freivogel; Of The Post-Dispatch

SECTION: NEWS, Pg. A3

LENGTH: 579 words


Edward T. "Tad" Foote II is "shocked" that Attorney General Janet Reno, his
friend, thought that negotiations he helped broker in the Elian Gonzalez case
had reached a stalemate when she sent in federal agents to seize the child.

In a telephone interview Sunday with the Post-Dispatch, Foote, a former dean of
the Washington University law school and current president of the University of
Miami, said he still thinks Reno is an "honorable woman of the utmost
integrity." But he is "baffled" by her decision to move in and to "risk force
and death" at a time when the boy's Cuban relatives had made "significant
concessions."

Foote said he and three other prominent Miami civic leaders involved in the
talks spoke with Reno Saturday afternoon, but ended up with no better
understanding of her decision.

Foote said the negotiators urged Reno to put into effect parts of the compromise
that they were working on. In particular, Foote hopes that the government will
name a "facilitator" to aid communication within the Gonzalez family. He thinks
Reno should insist that Cuban government representatives stay away from Elian.
"This would be better for the child and make things more palatable for the
community," he said.

Foote got to know Reno, then the Dade County prosecutor, when he took over the
university presidency in Miami in 1981. He called her several weeks ago offering
his help. Reno told him to wait for a federal appeals court to rule. When that
decision was announced last week, Foote called Reno again, who said she would
welcome his help.

The other three main negotiators were Carlos de la Cruz, president of Eagle
Brands snacks and chairman of the University of Miami's board of trustees;
Carlos Saladrigas, president of ADP Totalsource employment service and also a
trustee; and lawyer Aaron Podhurst. By Friday, the negotiators had in writing
the principles of a compromise. As Foote described it:

* The Miami family members acknowledged that custody of the child would be with
the father. Foote called this a major concession.

* Two great-uncles and a cousin from the Miami family would live in a compound
of houses in Dade County along with the father and Elian. Elian could go to
school and visit family members whenever he wished.

* A "facilitator," either a priest or social worker, would help with
communication.

* No Cuban government officials would be allowed in the compound.

Foote went home Friday evening to greet Easter visitors and told his wife that a
deal was near. But lawyers for Juan Miguel Gonzalez, as well as Justice
Department lawyers, insisted that the compound be outside of Florida, and
preferably near Washington.

The negotiations continued into early Saturday. The negotiators thought the site
of the compound was a sticking point, but not a stalemate. Podhurst and Reno
were on the telephone some time after 4 a.m. still negotiating. "She (Reno) put
him on hold," Foote said. "While he was on hold on the negotiation line for
about 15 minutes another phone call came in saying the raid had begun."

Foote said he was not accusing Reno of bad faith. "But we were not dealing with
anyone who was barricaded with a hostage. We profoundly disagree with this
decision and the reasons for it."

Reno's aides confirmed that she was on the phone at the time of the raid, but
said she had warned for hours that time was running out and at 4 a.m. told
negotiators that time had all but expired.

LOAD-DATE: April 24, 2000

LANGUAGE: English

GRAPHIC: PHOTO Photo headshot - Edward T. "Tad" Foote
 Disagrees with Reno's decision

                  Copyright 2000 St. Louis Post-Dispatch, Inc.


                              176 of 457 DOCUMENTS

                       St. Louis Post-Dispatch (Missouri)

                   April 24, 2000, Monday, THREE STAR EDITION

ELIAN SPENDS A QUIET DAY WITH HIS FATHER AT AIR BASE

BYLINE: The Associated Press

SECTION: NEWS, Pg. A1

LENGTH: 1042 words

DATELINE: WASHINGTON



SUNDAY

Relatives held a news conference in Washington while protests resumed in Miami,
where more than 350 people were arrested Saturday.

LOOKING AHEAD

House GOP Whip Tom Delay predicts congressional hearings will be held to review
the use of force in Saturday morning's raid.

Elian Gonzalez spent a secluded Easter with his father and got a visit from the
Easter bunny on Sunday.

"They had a very quiet day, a family day. I don't think they had many visitors,"
said Gregory Craig, the attorney for Juan Miguel Gonzalez, the boy's father.

"I know they went out and took a walk . . . I know they were visited by the
(Andrews Air Force Base) Easter bunny. Our kids put together two Easter baskets
for them that my assistant took out with some little stuffed animals," Craig
said.

After a day of raw anger, street fires and violence in the Little Havana
neighborhood, Miami fell quiet for Easter celebration Sunday morning, still
under tight police control after more than 350 arrests.

"We will celebrate in tears," Sergio Perez said. Perez is a neighbor of the
relatives who kept Elian for five months at their house in Miami until federal
agents brandishing guns burst through their door before dawn Saturday and seized
the child.

Later Sunday, scores of chanting protesters returned to the neighborhood.

In Washington, near the heavily guarded air base where the 6-year-old Cuban boy
is staying, a congressional Republican leader said he was "sickened" by the use
of force that hearings were certain on Capitol Hill.

"This is a frightening event, that American citizens now can expect that the
executive branch on their own can decide on whether to raid a home," said House
Republican Whip Tom DeLay, R-Texas.

Texas Gov. George W. Bush, the presumptive GOP presidential nominee, and Senate
Majority Leader Trent Lott, R-Miss., joined in the criticism. Lott said he
thought "this could only happen in Castro's Cuba."

DeLay said in an appearance on NBC's "Meet the Press": "There was no court order
that gave them permission to raid the private home of an American citizen. This
has been a bungled mess."

But a top Justice Department official said the only regret was that authorities
waited as long as they did.

"We were forced into the action we took by the intransigence of that family,"
said Eric Holder, deputy attorney general. "We probably should have taken a
decisive action sooner."

Holder, also on NBC, said a previous court ruling upholding the governm ent's
general actions in the case, combined with an order from the Immigration and
Naturalization Service, sufficed as legal grounds for moving in.

He acknowledged concern by the administration that Elian may be used by Cuban
President Fidel Castro as a political trophy.

"That is Fidel Castro's history," Holder said. "He has shown that he has always
tried to use whatever he can for his own political advantage."

Indeed, Castro called Saturday "a day of glory for our people" as about 400,000
Cubans summoned to a rally celebrated the father-and-son reunion.

Praising U.S. officials for their forceful action, Castro declared a "truce" in
his enduring Cold War-era struggle with the United States. But, he added,
"Tomorrow the battle continues."

U.S. officials, anticipating that Elian will return to Cuba when court appeals
are through, hoped to influence Cuban officials on how the boy is treated in his
homeland.

Elian, for once, was out of earshot of all the fuss. He joined his father,
stepmother and baby half-brother Saturday in private quarters at Andrews Air
Force Base, the home base of Air Force One.

Miami relatives, flying to Washington soon after Elian was taken from their
arms, were rebuffed again Sunday in trying to get on to the base to s ee him.

"When I talked to Juan Miguel about it, his wish was to be alone with the family
for a while," Craig said. He said the appearance of the Miami relatives in
Washington, where they held a lengthy news conference Sunday, has "unfortunately
been something of a disruptive cloud."

Craig said the father wanted his own family to have two or three days of quiet
time before we "start trying to rebuild bridges with other family members."

Craig offered the same advice to Gonzalez' Miami family.

"I would have thought that the wiser course would have been for them to rebuild
bridges with other parts of the family, rather than holding a press conference
in Miami to make their demands, then transporting that soap opera to Washington,
D.C., and holding another press conference to make demands," he said.

Elian was rescued at sea on Thanksgiving Day after a boat carrying him and other
Cuban refugees sank. His mother drowned.

"I will not leave until I see this boy," Marisleysis Gonzalez, 21, the cousin
who acted as Elian's surrogate mother, said in the news conference in
Washington. "I know he's not OK."

With Juan Miguel Gonzalez holed up with his two sons and second wife at Andrews,
the only accounts of Elian's state of mind since the reunion came from Craig and
another supporter, the Rev. Joan Brown Campbell.

Campbell said on ABC's "This Week" that Elian had acted like a "very happy,
mischievous, normal little boy" when she visited him Saturday.

Craig released two photographs after the reunion, showing Elian smiling in his
father's embrace and playing with his baby brother.

The Miami relatives contended that the images were manipulated, but Craig
countered that they were taken with a "disposable, Kodak camera" given to him by
the father.

Immigration agents who accompanied Elian on the flight to Andrews reported that
when they left him with his father at the base, he was "happily playing on the
floor," said Maria Cardona, speaking for the Immigration and Naturalization
Service .

Although he had wailed as he was carried off in Miami, Elian was calm on the
plane, Cardona said. She said he had napped on an immigration officer's lap,
colored in a coloring book and, at one point, cried a bit.

In a national CNN-Gallup poll taken after the seizure, more than six in 10
respondents supported the government's actions to reunite Elian with his father.
They were split on whether the government used too much force.

LOAD-DATE: April 24, 2000

LANGUAGE: English

GRAPHIC: PHOTO Color PHOTO by THE ASSOCIATED PRESS - Elian Gonzalez with his
father, Juan Miguel Gonzalez, stepmother Nersy Gonzalez and half-brother Hianny
at Andrews Air Force Base in Maryland. The photo was made public by Juan Miguel
Gonzalez's lawyer.

                  Copyright 2000 St. Louis Post-Dispatch, Inc.


                              177 of 457 DOCUMENTS

                       St. Louis Post-Dispatch (Missouri)

                April 27, 2000, Thursday, FIVE STAR LIFT EDITION

PSYCHIATRIST SAYS ELIAN'S RELATIVES SHOULD STAY AWAY, RECEIVE COUNSELING

BYLINE: The Associated Press

SECTION: NEWS, Pg. A1

LENGTH: 949 words

DATELINE: WASHINGTON


A child psychiatrist who interviewed Elian Gonzalez for the government
recommended Wednesday against a visit by his Miami relatives "in their current
angry state."

And Elian's father asked a federal appeals court to allow only him to speak for
his son.

As Elian remained secluded in rural Maryland with his father, Juan Miguel
Gonzalez, stepmother and half brother, Dr. Paulina F. Kernberg of Cornell
University Medical College reported that Elian has had "a positive reunion with
his father" and displays a "sense of well-being and happiness with his father."

Noting the anger expressed by the Miami relatives over the raid that took Elian
from them Saturday, Kernberg said, "In that frame of mind, they would likely be
disruptive for the child, who demands a quiet period of emotional healing from
the last few weeks of stress."

She recommended the Miami relatives seek counseling "to aid them in accepting
and supporting Elian's reunion with his father."

In an emergency petition to the 11th U.S. Circuit Court of Appeals, Juan Miguel
Gonzalez asked "to assert his rights as a father . . . to speak on behalf of
Elian, who has no other suitable representative."

The father asked the court to reject a bid by the boy's great-uncle and former
temporary guardian, Lazaro Gonzalez, to have his lawyers and doctors see Elian
and speak for him before the court.

"Lawyers for Lazaro Gonzalez - and they are Lazaro's lawyers, not Elian's - seek
to use machination and legal sleight of hand to turn this court into the arbiter
of an intra-family dispute in which the primary antagonist is too distant a
relative to Elian to be considered even 'extended family' under Florida law,"
the brief filed by Juan Miguel Gonzalez's attorney Greg Craig said. "This case
cries out for this father's personal intervention to save his son from further
manipulation."

The Justice Department also opposed Lazaro's motion for a court-appointed
guardian to examine and speak for Elian. It pledged to provide the court with
regular reports from a psychiatrist and a social worker it has hired to monitor
Elian.

The 11th Circuit is considering the Miami relatives' appeal of a U.S. District
Court decision that threw out the political asylum petition they filed on
Elian's behalf.

Kernberg, the psychiatrist, is fluent in Spanish. She spent 2 1/2 hours Tuesday
with the Gonzalez family at their new retreat at the Wye River Plantation on
Maryland's Eastern Shore. She spent time alone with Elian, alone with the father
and with the entire family.

On Capitol Hill, Lazaro Gonzalez and his daughter, Marisleysis, and other Miami
relatives campaigned to keep the boy in this country despite his father's desire
to take him home to Cuba.

The relatives presented rival doctors who challenged Kernberg's conclusions.
They called on President Bill Clinton and Attorney General Janet Reno to permit
Florida-based "medical professionals trusted by Elian" to evaluate him.

Kernberg spent too little time with Elian for a proper evaluation, said Dr.
Lidya Usategui, a Miami child psychiatrist. Dr. Jose Carro, president of the
Cuban Pediatric Society in Exile, said: "In our view, he (Elian) continues to
suffer. . . . Elian should have access to his family from Miami."

Lazaro Gonzalez, his daughter and other Miami relatives who went to Washington
on Saturday flew back to Miami on Wednesday night, said Emilio Vasquez of the
Cuban American National Foundation.

Doris Meissner, commissioner of the Immigration and Naturalization Service, said
on NBC's "Today" that Kernberg told her that "the father is not hostile to the
Miami relatives, he is very hurt. They have said very cruel things over recent
weeks, and the adults need to sort that out before the child is involved."

Kernberg was one of three doctors consulting for the government who interviewed
Juan Miguel Gonzalez and Lazaro Gonzalez two weeks ago and recommended that
Elian and his father be reunited quickly.

At the wooded Maryland retreat, Elian awaited visits by his former kindergarten
teacher and a 10-year-old cousin who arrived in the United States on Wednesday
night from Cuba.

In addition, four of Elian's Cuban classmates, along with three of their mothers
and one father, are expected to receive visas from the U.S. diplomatic mission
in Havana and fly to the United States today.

Also Wednesday, the INS revealed the Border Patrol agents' view of the raid they
conducted to seize Elian.

One of the eight reported he "had never encountered this much resistance," said
INS spokeswoman Maria Cardona.

"The agents said the crowd around the house was extremely aggressive and
hostile," Cardona said. "The female agent, Betty Mills, was pushed to the ground
on the way in." Several people formed a human chain at the door and had to be
pushed aside, she said.

The agents identified themselves and asked for cooperation, "but they did not
get it despite the family's promise to just open the door peacefully if we came
to get Elian," Cardona said.

"There was a couch pushed against the door, so the agents had to breach the
door. Inside, all the while, family members and supporters were screaming at the
agents."

The agent photographed holding an automatic weapon as he encountered a terrified
Elian had the safety lock turned on, Cardona said. "He made a specific decision
to keep the safety lock on because he feared he would encounter a physical
struggle and didn't want the gun to go off accidentally."

The Miami relatives joined Larry Klayman, head of the conservative Judicial
Watch, in seeking government documents about the raid. U.S. District Judge James
Robertson denied expedited release.

LOAD-DATE: April 27, 2000

LANGUAGE: English

GRAPHIC: PHOTO Photo from AGENCE FRANCE-PRESSE - A U.S. marshal checks the
paperwork for a delivery truck before allowing it into the Wye River Plantation
on Wednesday. Juan Miguel Gonzalez and his family, including Elian Gonzalez, are
staying there.

                  Copyright 2000 St. Louis Post-Dispatch, Inc.


                              178 of 457 DOCUMENTS

                       St. Louis Post-Dispatch (Missouri)

                  April 27, 2000, Thursday, THREE STAR EDITION

ELIAN'S RELATIVES, FATHER SHOULD MAKE PEACE BEFORE ANY VISIT, DOCTOR URGES

BYLINE: The Associated Press

SECTION: NEWS, Pg. A1

LENGTH: 942 words

DATELINE: WASHINGTON


A child psychiatrist who interviewed Elian Gonzalez for the government
recommended Wednesday postponing any visit by his Miami relatives until they
reconcile with the 6-year-old Cuban boy's father.

And Elian's father asked a federal appeals court to allow only him to speak for
his son.

As Elian remained secluded in rural Maryland with his father, Juan Miguel
Gonzalez, stepmother and half brother, Dr. Paulina F. Kernberg of Cornell
University Medical College reported that "Elian is doing very well" but "needs
more private time with his family," said Justice Department spokeswoman Carole
Florman.

"She believes that before the Miami relatives see Elian, they need to work out
their differences with Juan Miguel," Florman said.

Meanwhile, Juan Miguel Gonzalez asked in an emergency petition for the 11th U.S.
Circuit Court Court of Appeals "to assert his rights as a father ... to speak on
behalf of Elian, who has no other suitable representative."

The father asked the court to reject a bid by the boy's great-uncle and former
temporary guardian, Lazaro Gonzalez, to have his lawyers and doctors see Elian
and speak for him before the court.

"Lawyers for Lazaro Gonzalez - and they are Lazaro's lawyers, not Elian's - seek
to use machination and legal sleight of hand to turn this court into the arbiter
of an intra-family dispute in which the primary antagonist is too distant a
relative to Elian to be considered even 'extended family' under Florida law,"
the brief filed by Juan Miguel Gonzalez's attorney Greg Craig said. "This case
cries out for this father's personal intervention to save his son from further
manipulation."

The Justice Department also opposed Lazaro's motion for a court-appointed
guardian to examine and speak for Elian. It pledged to provide the court with
regular reports from a psychiatrist and a social worker.

The 11th Circuit is considering the Miami relatives' appeal of a U.S. District
Court decision that threw out the political asylum petition they filed on
Elian's behalf.

Kernberg, fluent in Spanish, spent 2 1/2 hours Tuesday with the Gonzalez family
at their new retreat at the Wye River Plantation on Maryland's Eastern Shore.

"The doctor reported that Elian needs to feel there is no tension between his
family and his Miami relatives before any sort of extended family meeting,"
Florman said.

On Capitol Hill, Lazaro Gonzalez and his daughter, Marisleysis, and other Miami
relatives campaigned to keep the boy in this country despite his father's desire
to take him home to Cuba.

The Florida relatives presented rival doctors who challenged Kernberg's
conclusions. They called on President Bill Clinton and Attorney General Janet
Reno to permit Florida-based "medical professionals trusted by Elian" to
evaluate him.

Kernberg spent too little time with Elian for a proper evaluation, said Dr.
Lidya Usategui, a Miami child psychiatrist. Dr. Jose Carro, president of the
Cuban Pediatric Society in Exile, said: "In our view, he (Elian) continues to
suffer. ... Elian should have access to his family from Miami."

Doris Meissner, commissioner of the Immigration and Naturalization Service, said
on NBC's "Today" that Kernberg told her that "the father is not hostile to the
Miami relatives, he is very hurt. They have said very cruel things over recent
weeks and the adults need to sort that out before the child is involved."

A Justice Department official, asked not to be identified, said Kernberg told
Meissner that Elian's cousin Marisleysis "is clearly not ready to see Elian
because she is too emotional and too angry to be a positive influence for him."
Kernberg has not interviewed Marisleysis, but the young woman has described her
anger about the raid in televised appearances.

The Miami relatives' psychiatrist, Usategui, scoffed at that assessment, saying
Kernberg "is making judgments based on what she saw on television."

At the wooded Maryland retreat, Elian awaited visits by his former kindergarten
teacher and a 10-year-old cousin who were headed from Cuba to the United States.

State Department spokesman James Rubin said additional visas would be expedited
for four of Elian's playmates to come from Cuba, each accompanied by an adult
relative.

Also Wednesday, the INS revealed the Border Patrol agents' view of the raid they
conducted to seize Elian.

One of the eight reported he "had never encountered this much resistance," said
INS spokeswoman Maria Cardona.

"The agents said the crowd around the house was extremely aggressive and
hostile," Cardona said. "The female agent, Betty Mills, was pushed to the ground
on the way in." Several people formed a human chain at the door and had to be
pushed aside, she said.

The agents identified themselves and asked for cooperation, "but they did not
get it despite the family's promise to just open the door peacefully if we came
to get Elian," Cardona said. "There was a couch pushed against the door, so the
agents had to breach the door. Inside, all the while, family members and
supporters were screaming at the agents."

The agent photographed holding an automatic weapon as he encountered a terrified
Elian had the safety lock turned on, Cardona said. "He made a specific decision
to keep the safety lock on because he feared he would encounter a physical
struggle and didn't want the gun to go off accidentally."

The Miami relatives joined Larry Klayman, head of the conservative Judicial
Watch, in seeking government documents about the raid. U.S. District Judge James
Robertson denied expedited release but urged the Justice Department to begin
releasing what items it could.

LOAD-DATE: April 27, 2000

LANGUAGE: English

GRAPHIC: PHOTO Photo from AGENCE FRANCE-PRESSE - A U.S. marshal checks the
paperwork for a delivery truck before allowing in into the Wye River Plantation
on Wednesday. Juan Miguel Gonzalez and his family, including Elian Gonzalez, are
staying there.

                  Copyright 2000 St. Louis Post-Dispatch, Inc.


                              179 of 457 DOCUMENTS

                       St. Louis Post-Dispatch (Missouri)

                April 27, 2000, Thursday, FIVE STAR LIFT EDITION

FORMER INS COMMISSIONER GENE MCNARY IS CRITICIZING RENO FOR RAID

BYLINE: Jo; Mannies; Post-Dispatch Political Correspondent

SECTION: NEWS, Pg. A8

LENGTH: 237 words


Former Immigration and Naturalization Service Commissioner Gene McNary of Ladue
says the Elian Gonzalez case "was mishandled from the beginning."

McNary, a Republican, headed the agency under President George Bush. He says
Attorney General Janet Reno could have avoided the scene Saturday - where armed
agents stormed the house and took the boy - by simply seeking a court order
requiring the Miami relatives to produce Elian in court.

He's confident the family would have complied, since they were using the courts
in their own bid to retain the boy. McNary also believes that the matter no
longer was an INS issue after the federal appeals court ruled last week that the
boy couldn't be deported.

"I believe they could have used these other means of civil enforcement instead
of going in with assault weapons," he said. McNary added that he found the raid
in Little Havana particularly repugnant because Reno had deployed the
immigration agency's equivalent of a SWAT team trained "for terrorists or drug
dealers."

McNary - now a candidate for Congress in the 2nd District - added that he's
stunned that most Americans don't seem upset over what happened; polls show most
support Reno. "This was like storm troopers in the night," McNary said.

Since the seizure of Elian, McNary has been hotly sought by the national media.
By his own count, he has appeared on at least five national TV news shows.

LOAD-DATE: April 27, 2000

LANGUAGE: English

                  Copyright 2000 St. Louis Post-Dispatch, Inc.


                              180 of 457 DOCUMENTS

                       St. Louis Post-Dispatch (Missouri)

                   April 28, 2000, Friday, THREE STAR EDITION

COURT DENIES MIAMI RELATIVES' REQUEST TO VISIT ELIAN BUT KEEP THEIR BATTLE;
FROM DYING;
PANEL WON'T LET FATHER SUBSTITUTE FOR GREAT-UNCLE IN THE CUSTODY CASE.

BYLINE: From News Services

SECTION: NEWS, Pg. A1

LENGTH: 1032 words


A federal appeals court Thursday denied a request by Elian Gonzalez's Miami
relatives to visit him and declined to appoint a guardian for the boy other than
his father.

Also Thursday, the raid that returned Elian to his father caused more turmoil in
Miami, where the mayor fired the city manager.

On the legal fron, the appeals court kept the relatives' legal battle alive. It
put off a decision on the father's request that he be substituted for Elian's
great-uncle as the boy's representative in the case. Such a move would allow the
father to drop legal efforts to keep the child in the United States.

The court told the father, Juan Miguel Gonzalez, that he could intervene, but
the judges also said they would not consider whether to remove the great-uncle
from the case until May 11, when arguments in the relatives' appeal are
scheduled to be heard.

Elian's great-uncle, Lazaro Gonzalez, cared for the boy for five months, from
his rescue at sea in November until federal agents returned him to his father
Saturday. Lazaro Gonzalez is appealing the federal government's order that the
6-year-old boy be returned to his Cuban father.

The great-uncle claims the boy should get an asylum hearing; the Justice
Department contends that only Elian's father can speak for him on immigration
matters such as asylum.

Elian has been ordered to stay in the United States until the appeal is over. He
is staying with his father, stepmother and half-brother at a rural retreat in
Maryland.

On Tuesday, the Miami relatives asked that they, their attorneys and their
doctors be given "regular and reasonable access" to Elian until the court rules
on their appeal, or that the court name an outside guardian to look after him
during that time.

The 11th Circuit denied those requests, instead saying it accepted the
government's offer to supply two reports a month about Elian from a psychiatrist
and a social worker.

The 11th Circuit also continued its order barring the boy from any site in this
country that has diplomatic immunity - a move designed to keep him from the
custody of Cuban diplomats.

Political turmoil hits Miami

Meanwhile, in Miami the seizure of Elian has plunged City Hall into political
turmoil, with Mayor Joe Carollo ousting the city manager.

Carollo had asked City Manager Donald Warshaw to fire Police Chief William
O'Brien, saying he "lost all confidence" in the chief for not telling him that
federal agents were about to raid the Gonzalez household early Saturday.

Warshaw can fire the police chief but has said he won't do it.

Carollo insisted Thursday that Warshaw's firing had nothing to do with "little
Elian." Carollo said Warshaw has been criticizing him, lying and trying to turn
department heads against him.

The police chief had an hour of advance notice of the raid, but has said he
didn't want to tip off the mayor, who unlike O'Brien is Cuban-American and had
openly sided with the Cuban boy's Miami relatives.

"This was a police issue, not a political issue," O'Brien has said.

The mayor also demanded O'Brien's firing for letting the police department's
second in command, Maj. John Brooks, get involved in the raid.

Brooks rode in the van that whisked Elian away. Police said that Brooks did so,
so that other police officers on duty at the house would realize that it was an
official action. Officers on the scene had only a moment's notice of the raid.

Reno again defends raid

Earlier Thursday, Attorney General Janet Reno said the armed agents who seized
Elian had to have a "show of force, not a use of force, to show we were in
control."

Reno said the hours before dawn on Saturday were "the most appropriate time with
the least crowd" for immigration agents to conduct the raid. "This appeared to
be the safest time possible to effect the transfer," she said at a news
conference in Washington.

As the raid began, Reno said, people outside the home tried to throw ropes
around the agents. The family inside the house pushed a couch against the door,
she said, forcing the agents to batter through the entryway. When Betty Mills,
an agent from the Immigration and Naturalization Service, carried Elian out the
door, people grabbed at her, and she almost fell before being helped by another
agent, Reno said.

The attorney general also addressed criticism of the manner in which agents had
brandished automatic rifles in front of Elian as the terrified boy hid inside a
closet, a scene that was captured in a widely circulated photograph taken by a
photographer for The Associated Press.

"We looked at everything that we could do to make sure that it was done safely
and yet with the least impact on Elian," Reno said. She added that she has been
told that the agent confronting the boy had the safety catch on his rifle. The
agents did not yell and curse at the family, she said.

Justice Department officials also said the case, including the raid, cost more
than $ 578,000 from Thanksgiving Day, when Elian was found at sea, through
Monday. The preliminary estimate does not include the costs of the family's stay
at Andrews Air Force Base from Saturday through Tuesday.

The most recent Miami city cost figures were $ 1 million through April 20, two
days before the raid and the street disorders it set off. About 80 percent of
that was for police overtime.

Cuban group is set for visit

Also Thursday, a group of nine Cubans left Havana to see Elian in Maryland: four
schoolmates from his hometown of Cardenas, four of their parents and Elian's
doctor. President Fidel Castro saw them off and then criticized U.S. officials
for not allowing a larger group to come.

Castro said that if the family has to wait a month or more for a court ruling
allowing Elian to return, "it would be better if he were with people that he
knew."

In Washington, about 350 people marched in front of the White House chanting
"Freedom for Elian, Human Rights for Elian." Groups arrived by bus or in their
own cars from New Jersey, Florida, and the Washington area.

"It's the way they took the boy," said Civica Perez of Secaucus, N.J. "And it's
the way they never fight Castro."

LOAD-DATE: April 28, 2000

LANGUAGE: English

GRAPHIC: PHOTO (1) Color Photo by The Associated Press - Hanser Orlando Munos
Pedroso, Elian Gonzalez's best friend, leaves Havana with a group of Cubans on
Thursday to visit Elian in the United States.
 (2) THE ASSOCIATED PRESS Color Photo - Protesters gather Thursday in prayer in
front of the home in Miami of Lazaro Gonzalez, the great-uncle of Elian
Gonzalez. Political fallout continues to envelop Miami in the wake of Saturday's
raid.

                  Copyright 2000 St. Louis Post-Dispatch, Inc.


                              181 of 457 DOCUMENTS

                       St. Louis Post-Dispatch (Missouri)

                 April 28, 2000, Friday, FIVE STAR LIFT EDITION

FEDERAL APPEALS COURT TURNS DOWN MIAMI RELATIVES' REQUEST TO SEE ELIAN;
BUT PANEL DELAYS RULING ON MOTION TO MAKE FATHER THE BOY'S SOLE REPRESENTATIVE

BYLINE: From News Services

SECTION: NEWS, Pg. A1

LENGTH: 792 words

DATELINE: ATLANTA


A federal appeals court Thursday denied a request by Elian Gonzalez's Miami
relatives to visit him and declined to appoint a guardian for the boy other than
his father.

The appeals court kept the relatives' legal battle alive. It put off a decision
on the father's request that he be substituted for Elian's great-uncle as the
boy's representative in the case. Such a move would allow the father to drop
legal efforts to keep the child in the United States.

The court told the father, Juan Miguel Gonzalez, that he could intervene, but
the judges also said they would not consider whether to remove the great-uncle
from the case until May 11, when arguments in the relatives' appeal are
scheduled to be heard.

Elian's great-uncle, Lazaro Gonzalez, cared for the boy for five months, from
his rescue at sea in November until federal agents returned him to his father
Saturday. Lazaro Gonzalez is appealing the federal government's order that the
6-year-old boy be returned to his Cuban father.

The great-uncle claims the boy should get an asylum hearing; the Justice
Department contends that only Elian's father can speak for him on immigration
matters such as asylum.

Elian has been ordered to stay in the United States until the appeal is over. He
is staying with his father, stepmother and half-brother at a rural retreat in
Maryland.

On Tuesday, the Miami relatives asked that they, their attorneys and their
doctors be given "regular and reasonable access" to Elian until the court rules
on their appeal, or that the court name an outside guardian to look after him
during that time.

The 11th Circuit denied those requests, instead saying it accepted the
government's offer to supply two reports a month about Elian from a psychiatrist
and a social worker.

The 11th Circuit also continued its order barring the boy from any site in this
country that has diplomatic immunity - a move designed to keep him from the
custody of Cuban diplomats.

Reno again defends raid

Earlier Thursday, Attorney General Janet Reno said the armed agents who seized
Elian had to have a "show of force, not a use of force, to show we were in
control."

Reno said the hours before dawn on Saturday were "the most appropriate time with
the least crowd" for immigration agents to conduct the raid. "This appeared to
be the safest time possible to effect the transfer," she said at a news
conference in Washington.

As the raid began, Reno said, people outside the home tried to throw ropes
around the agents. The family inside the house pushed a couch against the door,
she said, forcing the agents to batter through the entryway. When Betty Mills,
an agent from the Immigration and Naturalization Service, carried Elian out the
door, people grabbed at her, and she almost fell before being helped by another
agent, Reno said.

The attorney general also addressed criticism of the manner in which agents had
brandished automatic rifles in front of Elian as the terrified boy hid inside a
closet, a scene that was captured in a widely circulated photograph taken by a
photographer for The Associated Press.

"We looked at everything that we could do to make sure that it was done safely
and yet with the least impact on Elian," Reno said. She added that she has been
told that the agent confronting the boy had the safety catch on his rifle. The
agents did not yell and curse at the family, she said.

Justice Department officials also said the case, including the raid, cost more
than $ 578,000 from Thanksgiving Day, when Elian was found at sea, through
Monday. The preliminary estimate does not include the costs of the family's stay
at Andrews Air Force Base from Saturday through Tuesday.

The most recent Miami city cost figures were $ 1 million through April 20, two
days before the raid and the street disorders it set off. About 80 percent of
that was for police overtime.

Cuban group will visit

Also Thursday, a group of nine Cubans left Havana to see Elian in Maryland: four
schoolmates from his hometown of Cardenas, four of their parents and Elian's
doctor. President Fidel Castro saw them off and then criticized U.S. officials
for not allowing a larger group to come. Vans carrying the group arrived
Thursday night.

Castro said that if the family has to wait a month or more for a court ruling
allowing Elian to return, "It would be better if he were with people that he
knew."

In Washington, about 350 people marched in front of the White House chanting
"Freedom for Elian, Human Rights for Elian." Groups arrived by bus or in their
own cars from New Jersey, Florida and the Washington area.

"It's the way they took the boy," said Civica Perez of Secaucus, N.J. "And it's
the way they never fight Castro."

LOAD-DATE: April 28, 2000

LANGUAGE: English

GRAPHIC: PHOTO (1) Color Photo by AGENCE FRANCE-PRESSE - Friends and schoolmates
of Elian Gonzalez arrive from Cuba Thursday at Dulles International Airport near
Washington. The children, their parents and a Cuban doctor will visit Elian.
 (2) THE ASSOCIATED PRESS Color Photo - Protesters gather Thursday in prayer in
front of the home in Miami of Lazaro Gonzalez, the great-uncle of Elian
Gonzalez. Political fallout continues to envelop Miami in the wake of Saturday's
raid.

                  Copyright 2000 St. Louis Post-Dispatch, Inc.


                              182 of 457 DOCUMENTS

                       St. Louis Post-Dispatch (Missouri)

                April 29, 2000, Saturday, FIVE STAR LIFT EDITION

Q & A

SECTION: NEWS, Pg. 19

LENGTH: 96 words


Q: Two other Cubans escaping with Elian Gonzalez also survived. What has become
of them? Were they allowed to stay in the United States, or were they deported?

A: Arianne Horta, 22, and Nivaldo Fernandez, 32, were the other survivors. At
last report, they were working for a car dealership in Miami and hoped to remain
in the United States.

Age wasn't the only factor in the difference in their situation and t hat of
6-year-old Elian. Immigration policy permits Cuban refugees who make it to land
- as Horta and Fernandez did - to stay. Elian was rescued at sea.

LOAD-DATE: April 29, 2000

LANGUAGE: English

                  Copyright 2000 St. Louis Post-Dispatch, Inc.


                              183 of 457 DOCUMENTS

                       St. Louis Post-Dispatch (Missouri)

                April 29, 2000, Saturday, FIVE STAR LIFT EDITION

MIAMI POLICE CHIEF RESIGNS, BLASTS MAYOR'S REACTION TO ELIAN RAID

BYLINE: From News Services

SECTION: NEWS, Pg. 5

LENGTH: 755 words

DATELINE: MIAMI


* Chief William O'Brien - who says his departure shouldn't affect policing of a
massive protest planned for today - calls the mayor "divisive and destructive."

The fallout from the Elian Gonzalez raid sank the city government deeper into
chaos Friday, with the police chief resigning a day after the mayor fired the
city manager.

In stepping down, Police Chief William O'Brien lashed out at Mayor Joe Carollo,
who had criticized O'Brien for failing to notify him about the raid.

"I refuse to be the lightning rod of divisiveness in this community," O'Brien
said. "I refuse to be the chief of police in a city that has someone as divisive
and destructive as Joe Carollo as mayor."

O'Brien had an hour's notice before federal agents raided the home of Elian's
Miami relatives at 5:15 a.m. Saturday. He has said he didn't want to tip off the
mayor, who is Cuban-American and had openly sided with the relatives.

O'Brien's emotional resignation came less than 18 hours after Carollo fired the
city manager, Donald Warshaw, during a heated hearing at which dozens of
residents said police abused them while they protested the pre-dawn raid.

O'Brien and Warshaw said their departures would not affect the city's ability to
ensure that a massive protest planned for today would be safe and orderly. But
the departure of the city's two top professional managers leaves Miami once
again in political turmoil.

Carollo wanted Warshaw to fire the police chief. In Miami, only the city manager
can fire department heads. When he refused, Carollo fired Warshaw, but the mayor
maintains his decision had nothing to do with the raid.

Carollo told one news service that he fired Warshaw not over the raid or O'Brien
but because of alleged misuse of a charity credit card and said there would soon
be corruption arrests in the Police Department.

"Mr. Warshaw has been trying to paint himself as the great white hope. He's the
great white fraud," Carollo said. "Mr. O'Brien couldn't lead himself out of a
paper bag. I wouldn't even trust him leading a Girl Scout troop."

When O'Brien announced his resignation at police headquarters, his words drew
applause from a crowd of emotional police and city employees.

"They wanted to know again who gave the order and who was responsible, I want to
say again, I gave the order and I am the one who is responsible," said O'Brien,
a 25-year Miami police veteran and Vietnam-era fighter pilot.

O'Brien, 56, said he will remain on the job until another chief is appointed,
which could happen as early as next week.

Carollo said O'Brien's resignation was orchestrated by Warshaw to save his city
manager's job.

"He was made into the sacrificial lamb to resign," Carollo said. "He was
sacrificed by Mr. Warshaw so that by doing this, Mr. Warshaw is saving himself."

Warshaw said he wouldn't lobby to regain his job. "There are no deals being
made," he said.

The city commission has voted to create a committee to investigate police
involvement in the seizure of Elian and any police brutality that might have
occurred during the protests. More than 300 people were arrested, and tear gas
was used to disperse crowds after the boy was seized.

Elian, found adrift on an inner tube Thanksgiving Day after his mother and 10
other Cubans drowned, was reunited with his father after the raid.

Tens of thousands of demonstrators are expected to converge on Little Havana
today to protest the raid.

Police said that despite estimates of a crowd of 80,000 they expected the event
to be peaceful. But they were prepared for civil unrest, too.

"These events can and do come off without a hitch," said Lt. Rene Landa, who was
coordinating police plans for the demonstration. "The organizers have been very
cooperative. The people they are asking to come are not trouble-makers. But we
do have a contingent of officers on reserve - in case of looting, shooting or
fires."

A federal appeals court has ordered that Elian remain in the United States until
the court rules on the Miami relatives' bid for him to have an asylum hearing.
For now, Elian is living at the rural Wye River retreat in Maryland with his
father, stepmother and half-brother.

They were joined Thursday by four of Elian's schoolmates from his hometown of
Cardenas, four of their parents and Elian's doctor.

Also Friday, the Senate Judiciary Committee postponed a hearing scheduled for
Wednesday to examine legal issues in the raid. The Justice Department said it
needed more time to supply documents.

LOAD-DATE: April 29, 2000

LANGUAGE: English

                  Copyright 2000 St. Louis Post-Dispatch, Inc.


                              184 of 457 DOCUMENTS

                       St. Louis Post-Dispatch (Missouri)

                  April 29, 2000, Saturday, THREE STAR EDITION

MIAMI POLICE CHIEF RESIGNS WITH PARTING SHOT AT MAYOR OVER REACTION TO ELIAN;
RAID

BYLINE: From News Services

SECTION: NEWS, Pg. 5

LENGTH: 871 words

DATELINE: MIAMI


* Chief William O'Brien - who says his departure shouldn't affect policing of a
massive protest planned for today - calls the mayor "divisive and destructive."

The fallout from the Elian Gonzalez raid sank the city government deeper into
chaos Friday, with the police chief resigning a day after the mayor fired the
city manager.

In stepping down, Police Chief William O'Brien lashed out at Mayor Joe Carollo,
who had criticized O'Brien for failing to notify him about the raid.

"I refuse to be the lightning rod of divisiveness in this community," O'Brien
said. "I refuse to be the chief of police in a city that has someone as divisive
and destructive as Joe Carollo as mayor."

O'Brien had an hour's notice before federal agents raided the home of Elian's
Miami relatives at 5:15 a.m. Saturday. He has said he didn't want to tip off the
mayor, who unlike O'Brien is Cuban-American and had openly sided with the
relatives.

O'Brien's emotional resignation came less than 18 hours after Carollo fired the
city manager, Donald Warshaw, during a heated hearing at which dozens of
residents said police abused them while they protested the pre-dawn raid.

O'Brien and Warshaw said their departures would not affect the city's ability to
ensure that a massive Elian protest today would be safe and orderly. But the
departure of the city's two top professional managers leaves Miami once again in
political turmoil.

"We're in very sad and trying times in the city of Miami," said City
Commissioner Johnny Winton.

Carollo wanted Warshaw to fire the police chief. In Miami, only the city manager
can fire department heads. When he refused, Carollo fired Warshaw, but the mayor
maintains his decision had nothing to do with the raid.

Carollo told one news service that he fired Warshaw not over the raid or O'Brien
but because of alleged misuse of a charity credit card and said there would soon
be corruption arrests in the Police Department.

"Mr. Warshaw has been trying to paint himself as the great white hope. He's the
great white fraud," Carollo said. "Mr. O'Brien couldn't lead himself out of a
paper bag. I wouldn't even trust him leading a Girl Scout troop."

When O'Brien announced his resignation at police headquarters, his words drew
applause from a crowd of emotional police and city employees.

"They wanted to know again who gave the order and who was responsible, I want to
say again, I gave the order and I am the one who is responsible," said O'Brien,
a 25-year Miami police veteran and Vietnam-era fighter pilot.

James Goldman, the Immigration and Naturalization Service agent who led the
raid, called O'Brien a "hero of this mission."

"He did what we asked him to do - to maintain operational security, not to
reveal the nature of the search warrant," he said.

O'Brien, 56, said he will remain on the job until another chief is appointed,
which could happen as early as next week.

Carollo said O'Brien's resignation was orchestrated by Warshaw to save his city
manager's job.

"He was made into the sacrificial lamb to resign," Carollo said. "He was
sacrificed by Mr. Warshaw so that by doing this, Mr. Warshaw is saving himself."

Warshaw said he wouldn't lobby to regain his job. "There are no deals being
made," he said.

The city commission has voted to create a committee to investigate police
involvement in the seizure of Elian and any police brutality that might have
occurred during the protests. More than 300 people were arrested, and tear gas
was used to disperse crowds after the boy was seized.

Elian, found adrift on an inner tube Thanksgiving Day after his mother and 10
other Cubans drowned, was reunited with his father after the raid.

A federal appeals court has ordered that the 6-year-old boy remain in the United
States until the court rules on the Miami relatives' bid for him to have an
asylum hearing. For now, Elian is living at the rural Wye River retreat in
Maryland with his father, stepmother and half brother.

They were joined Thursday by four of Elian's schoolmates from his hometown of
Cardenas, four of their parents and Elian's doctor.

That same day, the appeals court rejected the Miami relatives' request to visit
the boy and also ruled that Elian's father, Juan Miguel Gonzalez, may intervene
in the appeal. Such a move would allow the father to drop the case. Arguments
are scheduled for May 11.

Also Friday, the Senate Judiciary Committee postponed a hearing scheduled for
Wednesday to examine legal issues in the raid. The Justice Department said it
needed more time to supply documents.

The city also is grappling with fiscal troubles. In 1996, city officials
revealed a $ 68 million deficit in the city's $ 275 million budget.

Only recently has Miami begun to see the fruits of efforts to bring order to its
finances. The city's bonds are rated just above junk status, and Wall Street
credit analysts - who have complimented the efforts of Warshaw - frequently urge
city leaders to maintain political and economic stability.

Jim Corey, a political science professor at the University of Miami, said the
latest squabble "makes Miami the laughingstock of the United States. It confirms
the image of a banana republic."

LOAD-DATE: April 29, 2000

LANGUAGE: English

GRAPHIC: PHOTO Photo from THE ASSOCIATED PRESS - Miami City Manager Donald
Warshaw (left) confers with Miami Police Chief William O'Brien on Thursday after
Warshaw was fired by Mayor Joe Carollo. On Friday, O'Brien resigned under fire
from Carollo for not informing him in advance of the federal raid last week to
seize Elian Gonzalez from his relatives' home.

                  Copyright 2000 St. Louis Post-Dispatch, Inc.


                              185 of 457 DOCUMENTS

                       St. Louis Post-Dispatch (Missouri)

                   April 30, 2000, Sunday, THREE STAR EDITION

PORTLAND TRIES TO SHED IMAGE AS UNFRIENDLY TO VISITING ASIANS;
AN INTERNET PAPER DUBBED THE CITY "DEPORTLAND"

BYLINE: The Associated Press

SECTION: NEWS, Pg. A8

LENGTH: 244 words

DATELINE: PORTLAND, ORE.


Portland International Airport has gotten a bad image over the past year for an
extremely high rate of deporting - and sometimes jailing - businesspeople from
Japan and other countries who lack proper visas.

U.S. immigration officials, concerned that the city's reputation as "Deportland"
is insulting Asian businesses and hurting trade by Oregon companies, met this
week with international and local officials to try to solve the problem.

The INS announced that it would look into alternatives to jail for deportees
waiting to be sent home, educate businesses about visa requirements and give INS
inspectors sensitivity training so they don't seem so rude to foreigners.

Records show Portland immigration inspectors turn away foreigners nine times as
often as inspectors in Seattle. Some visitors later re-enter the United States
through San Francisco or Seattle with the same documents. Rejected travelers are
sent back to their homelands, but if they miss a return flight, they're jailed.

Some Japanese travel agencies have blacklisted the airport. Asia Times, an
Internet newspaper based in Thailand, dubbed the city "Deportland."

The Japanese consul general and officials from the State Department, the
business community and the Port of Portland, which manages the airport, attended
the meeting Thursday with immigration officials. Japanese representatives said
the tone was positive but remained skeptical that the problem would be solved.

LOAD-DATE: April 30, 2000

LANGUAGE: English

                  Copyright 2000 St. Louis Post-Dispatch, Inc.


                              186 of 457 DOCUMENTS

                       St. Louis Post-Dispatch (Missouri)

                  May 1, 2000, Monday, FIVE STAR LIFT EDITION

RAID RAISES EYEBROWS AMONG POLICE AGENCIES

BYLINE: David Briscoe; The Associated Press

SECTION: NEWS, Pg. A8

LENGTH: 903 words

DATELINE: WASHINGTON


* While few officers openly criticize the capture of Elian at gunpoint, they say
they always look for nonviolent options. Then again, most child custody cases
are not televised live, nor is a crowd demonstrating outside the house.

Police agencies, which rarely take children with a show of force, say they
cannot recall anything like the Immigration and Naturalization Service's raid
that removed 6-year-old Elian Gonzalez from his relatives' home using an armed
assault team.

Law enforcement officials regularly face the decision of how and when to use
guns to take innocent children into custody. While few officers openly criticize
the capture of Elian at gunpoint, they say they always look for nonviolent
options.

Local police, who handle dangerous domestic disputes daily, avoid either a show
of force or use of force whenever they can. Most of the time, they don't have to
go in with guns drawn.

"What you've got is a child with a warrant out on him, and when is the next time
that that is going to happen?" asked Lt. Lester Bell, head of a county Crimes
Against Children unit in Georgia. Federal agents used both an alien arrest
warrant that declared Elian "in violation of the immigration laws" and a search
warrant to enter the Miami house and remove the child on April 22.

Even immigration agents, who pursue illegal aliens of all ages, have never had
to use such force to take a child, acknowledged spokeswoman Maria Cardona.

"We serve search warrants all the time, but it's the first time we've had to
serve a search warrant to relatives who have remained unwilling to abide by INS
instructions," she said.

Still, Cardona said, the agency has enforcement agents around the country ready
to stage a similar raid if necessary.

A unique case

The publicity and local reaction made this case unique. Most child custody cases
are not televised live nationally, nor is a crowd demonstrating outside the
house where the child is living.

The danger of the action was cited by family members and others. They accused
Attorney General Janet Reno of risking the boy's life to appease Cuban leader
Fidel Castro.

President Bill Clinton's administration denies that. Polls show most American
applaud the return of the boy to his father. And children's rights groups
praised both the result and the method.

"We need Janet Reno to go into a thousand homes this week," said David L. Levy
of the Children's Rights Council. "Elian is but the tip of the iceberg."

Pamela S. Stuart-Mills, director of Parental Alienation Syndrome Research
Foundation, said she has witnessed abduction cases where authorities faced armed
guards.

But rarely, if ever, has the nation witnessed live, recorded or in still
photographs the taking of a child with such force as the Miami operation.

Even with real-life police shows nightly taking viewers along in patrol cars,
the image of a little boy inches from a fearsome automatic rifle still shocked
the country.

In 13 years, the nationally syndicated TV show "COPS" has never shown a child
taken at gunpoint from an adult, its producers say. COPS cameras have never gone
with immigration agents, but they have followed local police in several U.S.
cities, as well as Russia, Britain and Hong Kong.

But the show does catch children in criminal circumstances. In a recent episode,
an officer finds two toddlers outside a motel room door, their grandmother
asleep inside.

In such child neglect cases, adults rarely battle police to keep the kids.

But kidnappers, hijackers, robbers, rapists and violent parents often use guns,
and police face a hard choice.

Some are reluctant to discuss possible tactics, and others don't want to appear
critical of the immigration service. Asked how Seattle police would remove a
child from a home in a custody case, spokesman Clem Benton said: "We're not
going to touch that one. ... We're not going to criticize other agencies or
offer any kind of comment in that area."

Talk comes first

But police officials willing to describe their operations said they nearly
always talk first.

In Cobb County, Ga., officers are not likely to call ahead but wouldn't come in
the middle of the night, said Bell, the children's crime unit commander.

He recalled a case four years ago.

"We had an individual belonging to a paramilitary group. He had his house
fenced, with dogs, and was not sending his kids to school and was feeding them
only once a day. We had to go in and get those kids," Bell said.

Five officers were sent in - two in plainclothes, three in uniform.

"We ended up talking him into letting us in," Bell said.

Not all such confrontations end peacefully. Eighteen children were among the 80
people killed in what the government calls a mass suicide of fire and gunfire
after the FBI lobbed tear gas into the Branch Davidian cult compound in Waco,
Texas, seven years ago.

Stories of a deranged parent killing his or her children, usually followed by a
suicide, are more common than stories of police putting children's lives in
danger in custody cases.

Dave Wagner, deputy district attorney for California's Orange County, said he
could recall no SWAT-style raid to pick up a child.

"Our investigators are armed but usually carry their weapons underneath their
clothing. They select the amount of force necessary to do the job and make sure
no one is hurt," Wagner said.

LOAD-DATE: May 3, 2000

LANGUAGE: English

GRAPHIC: PHOTO (1) Color Photo by THE ASSOCIATED PRESS - Government agents carry
Elian Gonzalez from his relatives' home April 22 in Miami. Immigration agents
say they had never had to use such force to take a child, said spokeswoman Maria
Cardona.
 (2) Color Photo by THE ASSOCIATED PRESS - Protester Allan Rogriguez confronts a
police officer April 22 in the Little Havana section of Miami. Unrest spread to
the streets after Elian was taken away.

                  Copyright 2000 St. Louis Post-Dispatch, Inc.


                              187 of 457 DOCUMENTS

                       St. Louis Post-Dispatch (Missouri)

                  May 1, 2000, Monday, FIVE STAR LIFT EDITION

QUESTIONING APPEARANCES IN ELIAN GONZALEZ DRAMA

BYLINE: Pat Gauen

SECTION: ST. CLAIR-MONROE POST, Pg. 2

LENGTH: 658 words


"Well," I mumbled to my wife as we watched a TV replay in amazement, "We
certainly showed Cuba that America is not some regime where soldiers come in the
night and drag people away."

Forgive the sarcasm. I found myself trying to figure out where it came from.

Friends of this space know I'm sympathetic to the rule of law, and to the cops
who take risks to enforce it.

And I recognize that a boy whose mother dies should logically belong with his
viable father. The facts that mom drowned taking Elian Gonzalez to U.S. waters
from Cuba - and that the father would return the boy to his home in that
disagreeably-Communist country - are to me just extraneous politics.

I do not protest that it was time for the 6-year-old's very-protective U.S.
relatives in Miami to stop balking at an order to relinquish temporary custody
and turn the boy over for a reunion with dad.

So what's my problem, then?

I found the answer not so much in what I had said but how I had said it.
Soldiers, was the word I used. I remember it exactly. Soldiers. Not cops or
immigration agents. Not Border Patrol. I said soldiers because, well, the people
in the pictures looked like soldiers.

The guy in that now-famous Associated Press photo, wearing green battle
fatigues, a ballistic helmet and gas goggles, and carrying a menacing assault
rifle (finger off the trigger, the Justice Department wants us to notice), sure
looked like something from a war movie.

But America keeps domestic order with civilian police, not the military. It is a
cornerstone of our way of life. We have no Nazi storm troopers here, but
increasingly we are dressing our police special tactics teams as if they were.

I'm not talking about what's in their hearts, or even how they operate. I'm
talking about how they look.

Did you see the videotape of Elian being whisked outside? Into what? A white
unmarked van with heavily tinted windows. No reassuring emblems of law and order
on the doors. Just a secret-policemobile disappearing in the pre-dawn dark.

It gets worse. The driver, for reasons I have yet to learn, could be seen
wearing a full face mask. He or she looked for all the world like somebody who
just held up the corner quick shop. If this person's identity was so sensitive,
couldn't the federal government have found anybody else to drive the darned
thing?

At least the woman agent who carried Elian was bare-faced and dressed more like
the Third Precinct than the Third Regiment.

These is a message in this for all law enforcement, I think, from Belle ville to
the Border Patrol, from Alton to the ATF, from Fayetteville to the FBI.
So-called SWAT or tactical teams may have to employ military tactics for their
safety and ours, but do they really have to look like the army?

Hey, I covered cops a long time and I know the rationale. The meaner you look,
the less mean you have to be. An adversary who sees he cannot win likely will
not try. Shiny badges and bright clothing defy stealth and draw fire. Yeah,
yeah.

But does the color have to be green? Wouldn't dark gray or navy blue do as well?
Do participants have to - as they often do - wear full masks that conceal their
humanity? Can't they use vehicles that look more like the familiar squad car so
many of us were taught as children to trust if we were in trouble?

Intervention by a SWAT team is always a last resort in law enforcement. The
debate will continue to rage over whether other options were so exhausted in
Miami to justify a last-resort raid that might have put an innocent child in the
middle of a gunbattle. (The government can't very well deny the possibility,
since it saw fit to storm the place with heavily-armed people in body armor.)

Many of us, I'm afraid, may have trouble consciously reacting to the substantive
issues with our brains while our guts are subconsciously reacting to the
spectacle of soldiers dragging a screaming child into the night.

LOAD-DATE: May 1, 2000

LANGUAGE: English

TYPE: Pat Gauen Column

                  Copyright 2000 St. Louis Post-Dispatch, Inc.


                              188 of 457 DOCUMENTS

                       St. Louis Post-Dispatch (Missouri)

                  May 7, 2000, Sunday, FIVE STAR LIFT EDITION

RAID AT FLEA MARKET TARGETS BOGUS GOODS;
OFFICIALS ALSO QUESTION VENDORS ON IMMIGRATION STATUS;
NO ARRESTS ARE MADE

BYLINE: Valerie Schremp; Of The Post-Dispatch

SECTION: METRO, Pg. C1

LENGTH: 1033 words


At a flea market in Pagedale on Saturday investigators seized thousands of
pieces of counterfeit clothing and merchandise that, if legitimate, would be
worth $ 10 million.

But the real value of the Fubu, Tommy Hilfinger, Nautica and other brand names
of jeans, hats, shirts, and watches is about half that, said St. Louis police
Lt. Steve Harmon, commander of the Crimes Against Property Division.

This raid is part of a continuing effort to stem the flow of counterfeit
merchandise.

Officers with the FBI, the Immigration and Naturalization Service and the St.
Louis, Pagedale and St. Louis County police departments raided the Frison Flea
Market, 7025 St. Charles Rock Road, about 10:30 a.m. to the surprise of
customers--and vendors.

"What's going on?" asked one man as police in vests and agents in FBI jackets
swiftly rolled out crime scene tape around some vendors' booths.

"Mark McGwire is in here or something," one man said into a cell phone as he saw
the television cameramen and reporters who had been invited along.

As a police officer from Pagedale stood in front of a booth displaying Tommy
Hilfinger jerseys and T-shirts, vendor Byong Jeong paced and smoked a cigarette.
Jeong, 65, an immigrant from Korea, and his wife, Yong, 63, have had a booth at
Frison's for three years, he said.

"This is not copy. This is all Tommy Sport," he said, holding up his shirts.
"Somebody come here, I buy that from them."

When a reporter asked him again whether the merchandise was real, he said, "Not
sure. I don't know. I don't understand. It's an English problem."

Officers made no arrests, but they detained several vendors, including the
Jeongs, to check their immigration status. Other vendors were from Somalia and
India.

One investigator, Joseph Kadash, represents Dooney & Bourke, the company best
known for making leather purses with a duck insignia. He has worked on hundreds
of such raids, many in the Los Angeles area. What some might consider attacks on
the livelihood of immigrants, Kadash described as an effort to put a dent in
what is a worldwide, $ 300 billion counterfeit merchandise industry.

"Everybody they owed money just got stiffed today," he said. "You've annoyed
some mid-level wholesalers in Chicago and other cities. On the larger scale of
things, this is destructive to the businesses in general."

Those businesses are ones who pay for their trademark and have a legal stake in
keeping it from being abused, he said.

Kadash and other investigators pointed out several examples of how these vendors
in Pagedale abused the trademarks - a real merchant would not staple price tags
to clothing, said Kadash, fingering a child-sized pair of fake Tommy Hilfiger
jeans.

"Nobody uses staples - because whoops, bleeding, there's a $ 100 million
lawsuit."

True labels are sewn into the seams because they are put there when the clothing
is manufactured, not after the clothing arrives in the United States, he said.
Each manufacturer also will have its own registration number. If several
different jackets have the same registration number on the label, but the brand
names on the outside are different ones like Polo, Nautica, Fubu, or Phat Farm,
then you can be certain the labels were added after the jackets made it through
customs.

Some signs are a little more obvious - one table sold Fubu T-shirts for $ 5, but
the Fubu logo was silk-screened on Fruit of the Loom-brand shirts. One pair of
Tommy Hilfiger jeans had an inside label that was discolored blue when it went
through a washing process, but the Tommy Hilfinger label sewn inside was bright
white.

And nobody spell-checked the label on one pair of jeans, which said, "Sean John
demin collection."

In all, officials seized merchandise from about 30 booths and will check the
immigration status of 18 vendors. Arrest warrants will be issued and charges
filed according to how much counterfeit merchandise the vendors had in their
booths. Selling 100 fake items is a class D felony, p unishable up to 5 years in
prison.

Investigators closed the entire flea market on Saturday. It will be back in
business today -without the suspect booths.

For now, officials were satisfied by the size of the raid: the last large one in
the St. Louis area was at Discount Fashions, at 1408 North Kingshighway. If the
clothing seized in that raid had been authentic, it would be worth up to $ 5
million. Last week, police raided a store in Sikeston, Mo., and got merchandise
that, if real, would have been worth more than $ 20 million.

At least one vendor was happy about Saturday's interruptions. Chris Ounian, 29,
was watching a friend's booth, which sold odds and ends such as strapping tape,
toys, lighters, and miniature cans of WD-40.

"I don't have any reason to be worried," he said. "If they'll be out of business
tomorrow, my sales will skyrocket."

===========

How to spot fake brand-name merchandise:

* Check how the labels are sewn. If they are sewn outside the seam, they most
likely are fake. Labels meant to be sewn in one place are sewn in another; for
example, a tag with vertical flaps on either side that was meant to be sewn
inside a shirt collar has instead been sewn onto the waistband of a pair of
jeans.

* Check the colors of the labels. If the clothing's dye has bled, discoloring
interior tags, any other, bright white label probably was added later.

* Check to see that labels match. Be sure the label on the outside of the
clothing matches the one inside. A Nautica logo could be silk-screened onto a
Fruit of the Loom T-shirt.

* Check the registration number. It usually is on the inside tag and behind the
letters "RN." Every brand name has a specific registration number. If different
brand garments have the same registration number or none at all, they are
probably fake.

* Check frills, ornaments, and accessories. Buckles on watches or belts are
often similar to each other, even if their leather components or watch-faces are
labeled with different brand names. Some brand names don't even make particular
pieces of merchandise: for example, Tommy Hilfiger doesn't make watches, but
some vendors will try to sell them.

LOAD-DATE: May 7, 2000

LANGUAGE: English

GRAPHIC: PHOTO Color Photo by LAURIE SKRIVAN / POST-DISPATCH - "We can do this
here or at the police station," Pagedale Detective Art Tullock said Saturday as
he wrote down names of merchants detained in a raid at the Frison Flea Market,
7025 St. Charles Rock Road. The raid, conducted by national and local police and
immigration officials, targeted the sale of counterfeit goods.

                  Copyright 2000 St. Louis Post-Dispatch, Inc.


                              189 of 457 DOCUMENTS

                       St. Louis Post-Dispatch (Missouri)

                May 31, 2000, Wednesday, FIVE STAR LIFT EDITION

U.S. IMMIGRATION OFFICIAL IS FOUND GUILTY OF PASSING SECRETS TO CUBA;
HE HAD ACCESS TO INFORMATION ABOUT DEFECTORS, DISSIDENTS, PASSED THEM ALONG TO;
FRIEND

BYLINE: The Associated Press

SECTION: NEWS, Pg. A2

LENGTH: 371 words

DATELINE: MIAMI


A U.S. immigration official was found guilty of espionage Tuesday after getting
caught in a government sting in which he passed secret information to a friend
with ties to Cuba.

Mariano Faget, 54, a naturalized U.S. citizen who came from Cuba as a te
en-ager, showed no reaction when the federal jury convicted him of all four
counts, including violating the Espionage Act.

The charges carry a possible prison term of five to six years.

Faget had testified that he made a mistake when he passed classified information
to his lifelong friend, a businessman. The case led to the expulsion of a top
Cuban diplomat in Washington, Jose Imperatori.

On its second day of deliberations, the jury also convicted Faget of converting
government property, in this case secret information, to his own use; lying on a
national security form by saying he had no foreign business ties; and lying
about his contacts with a Cuban official.

Outside the courtroom, Faget's wife, Maria, and one of his sons sobbed in each
other's arms.

Faget was an acting deputy director of the Immigration and Naturalization
Service in Miami and had a security clearance that gave him access to
confidential information about Cuban defectors and dissidents.

In a sting operation in February, the FBI fed Faget a phony story about a Cuban
who was about to defect. The FBI then promptly caught Faget calling friend and
business partner Pedro Font and telling him about the impending defection. Font
has contacts in the Cuban government.

Faget also had personal meetings with reputed Cuban spy Luis Molina.

Prosecutors relied on surveillance tapes to prove their case.

"Mariano Faget was a government employee willing to betray the trust of people
he was sworn to serve," prosecutor Curtis Miner told the jury. "He disclosed
classified information for no better purpose than his own personal reasons, his
own personal gain."

The defense challenged the assertion - required for a conviction - that Faget
intended to hurt the United States or help Cuba.

Defense attorney Edward O'Donnell called Faget "an honest government servant who
made a mistake."

Faget was close to retirement after 34 years with the INS.

LOAD-DATE: May 31, 2000

LANGUAGE: English

GRAPHIC: PHOTO Photo headshot - (Mariano) Faget, Could face prison

                  Copyright 2000 St. Louis Post-Dispatch, Inc.


                              190 of 457 DOCUMENTS

                       St. Louis Post-Dispatch (Missouri)

                  June 2, 2000, Friday, FIVE STAR LIFT EDITION

VAYA CON DIOS -- PLEASE

SECTION: EDITORIAL, Pg. C14

LENGTH: 348 words



ELIAN GONZALEZ

IF the Miami relatives of 6-year-old Elian Gonzalez have the boy's best
interests at heart, they will drop their interminable legal appeals and accept
the decision by the 11th U.S. Circuit Court of Appeals. They will finally
appreciate that what the boy needs most is his father -- and the stability,
security and closure that only he can provide.

The decision by the appeals court was a perfectly commonsensical, even
conservative, one that focused largely on the separation of powers. The court
understood that Elian does have a right to apply for asylum under immigration
law. But it also noted that the Immigration and Naturalization Service has the
authority to set up those procedures. It was entirely reasonable for the INS to
decide that a parent, even one from a communist country, should exercise that
right on behalf of the child, especially one far too young to grasp the serious
implications of such a life-altering decision.

While the Miami relatives have a right to appeal, their prospects are not too
encouraging. The full circuit court is unlikely to review the decision of the
three-judge panel. For one thing, the panel arrived at a unanimous verdict; for
another, Judge J.L. Edmondson, the Reagan appointee who wrote the decision, is a
conservative.

The U.S. Supreme Court might not be too inclined to take on the case either,
because the case does not have the kind of broad impact the court prefers.

The Miami relatives' legal challenges have always been relatively flimsy, an
attempt to enlist the courts in a bitterly partisan battle against Fidel Castro.
Thankfully, the courts have not taken the bait, generally acknowledging what
most of us understand intuitively.

Parental attachment transcends political boundaries. The tender ties of family
life can be just as affectionate, meaningful and devoted under circumstances of
economic or political hardship as under prosperity and freedom. Love may not
conquer all, but it goes pretty darn far in making life happy and satisfying.
That is why Elian Gonzalez belongs at home.

LOAD-DATE: June 2, 2000

LANGUAGE: English

                  Copyright 2000 St. Louis Post-Dispatch, Inc.


                              191 of 457 DOCUMENTS

                       St. Louis Post-Dispatch (Missouri)

                   July 19, 1996, Friday, THREE STAR Edition

PLANT 'DOCTOR' CLOSES IMMIGRATION BUILDING

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 4B

LENGTH: 77 words

DATELINE: WASHINGTON


About 400 employees at Immigration and Naturalization Service headquarters were
sent home Thursday after an employee spraying plants accidentally introduced
toxic fumes into the building's air-conditioning system.

Deputy Immigration Commissioner Chris Sale used an insecticide on house plants
in her office, but the air-conditioning system picked up the spray and
circulated fumes through the seven-story Chester A. Arthur Building, a
spokeswoman said.

LOAD-DATE: July 20, 1996

LANGUAGE: English

                  Copyright 1996 St. Louis Post-Dispatch, Inc.


                              192 of 457 DOCUMENTS

                       St. Louis Post-Dispatch (Missouri)

                   July 19, 1996, Friday, THREE STAR Edition

PLANT 'DOCTOR' CLOSES IMMIGRATION BUILDING

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 4B

LENGTH: 77 words

DATELINE: WASHINGTON


About 400 employees at Immigration and Naturalization Service headquarters were
sent home Thursday after an employee spraying plants accidentally introduced
toxic fumes into the building's air-conditioning system.

Deputy Immigration Commissioner Chris Sale used an insecticide on house plants
in her office, but the air-conditioning system picked up the spray and
circulated fumes through the seven-story Chester A. Arthur Building, a
spokeswoman said.

LOAD-DATE: July 19, 1996

LANGUAGE: English

                  Copyright 1996 St. Louis Post-Dispatch, Inc.


                              193 of 457 DOCUMENTS

                       St. Louis Post-Dispatch (Missouri)

               September 8, 1996, Sunday, FIVE STAR LIFT Edition

CRIMINAL RECORD CHECKS BYPASSED IN CITIZENSHIP DRIVE

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 7A

LENGTH: 670 words

DATELINE: WASHINGTON


In an election-year push to grant citizenship to 1.2 million immigrants, the
federal government mistakenly allowed tens of thousands to become Americans
before criminal records checks were done.

Immigration and Naturalization Service officials acknowledge the errors - 30,000
alone in New York - but blame them on misrouted paperwork.

Internal documents suggest the White House was keenly interested in the
citizenship effort but was warned by the immigration agency that speeding up the
process too much would be viewed as blatantly political.

"INS warns that if we are too aggressive at removing the roadblocks to success,
we might be publicly criticized for running a pro-Democratic voter mill and even
risk having Congress stop us," cautioned a memo pr epared by Vice President Al
Gore's staff for President Bill Clinton.

Excerpts of the memo were obtained by The Associated Press from individuals
familiar with it.

Immigration officials insist the "Citizenship USA" effort pushed by Gore over
the last 18 months was designed only to clear a huge backlog of applications -
and had nothing to do with the election.

"It's caused us all kinds of undue hardship that this happens to match the
political calendar," said David Rosenberg, director of the program. "It's simply
not true that politics played a role in this program."

None of the agency's official documents announcing the program make any mention
of the election.

But agency documents gathered by congressional investigators and interviews
suggest at least some believed a key motive was to get the new citizens to vote
- something they'd be able to do for the first time this fall.

"As you must be aware, the INS has been told to naturalize everyone who filed
form N400 (citizenship application) prior to April 1, 1996, in time for them to
register to vote in the November election," Don L. Riding, the INS official in
charge of the Fresno, Calif., office, wrote this spring.

Riding's boss, San Francisco district director Thomas Schiltgen, said Rider was
only expressing his personal opinion when he linked the program to the election.

When the Citizenship USA program took effect in August 1995, it concentrated on
the immigrant-heavy states of Florida, Texas, Illinois, California and New York.
Immigration officials said the agency is on track to meet its goal of
naturalizing 1.2 million immigrants by the end of this month.

Chicago Alderman Daniel Solis said he became disturbed when he volunteered to
help Rep. Luis Gutierrez, D-Ill., set up his own effort to assist the
immigrants, and heard anti-Republican pitches being made to the immigrants.

"They would say now that you have become a citizen, we can fight this Republican
movement in Congress and we can get you welfare rights," Solis recalled. "I
thought that was really stupid."

Billy Weinberg, a spokesman for Gutierrez, said the congressman helped only "to
provide a service they deserve as constituents."

Dozens of INS officials have told GOP congressional staff that the pressure to
process legal immigrants for citizenship by the deadline was immense, and
resulted in lax handling of applications.

INS officials acknowledged clerical errors resulted in the failure to reject
several applicants who were convicted felons.

Other problems:

* In Arlington, Va., a box with at least 500 records of immigrants who the FBI
had identified as having arrest records was not found until after many were
already being processed for citizenship.

* In New York, INS officials discovered they had processed as many as 30,000
immigrants for citizenship who had never undergone the required FBI criminal
check because paperwork was sent to the wrong office. Thirty-six people who were
naturalized were later found to have felony criminal records; their citizenship
is being revoked.

* Hundreds more FBI background requests were misrouted in other cities, and a
dozen more felons granted citizenship were belatedly found in Miami, Los Angeles
and Washington.

LOAD-DATE: September 8, 1996

LANGUAGE: English

GRAPHIC: Photo by AP - An interagency firefighting helicopter drops water on a
blaze in the Shepard Mountains on Friday afternoon near Roscoe, Mont. The
wildfire, part of the nation's worst fire season in 39 years, has burned at
least 27 homes.

                  Copyright 1996 St. Louis Post-Dispatch, Inc.


                              194 of 457 DOCUMENTS

                       St. Louis Post-Dispatch (Missouri)

             September 25, 1996, Wednesday, FIVE STAR LIFT Edition

DEMOCRATS OBJECT TO IMMIGRATION REVISIONS

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 7A

LENGTH: 222 words

DATELINE: WASHINGTON


Democrats are opposing revisions to the immigration bill that Republicans pushed
through a House-Senate conference committee Tuesday.

The White House said Tuesday that the Republicans have removed President Bill
Clinton's major objection to the bill by dumping a plan that would have allowed
states to bar public education to illegal immigrants.

"It's a step in the right direction," a White House spokesman said.

But Democrats in the House and Senate stepped up demands for the bill's defeat.
Among their objections are new provisions that:

Toughen the financial requirements for sponsors of legal immigrants, mandating
that they earn up to twice the poverty level.

Allow for the deportation of refugees who arrive without proper travel papers.

Exempt immigration officials from environmental laws when they build roads and
fences near the border.

Allow for the deportation of legal immigrants if they use some forms of public
assistance, such as child care, for more than a year.

Overall, the bill would double the number of Border Patrol agents over five
years, mete out harsher penalties for smuggling and counterfeiting of documents,
and create a voluntary program to help employers verify the immigration status
of potential employees.

Final votes in the House and Senate are expected later this week.

LOAD-DATE: September 25, 1996

LANGUAGE: English

                  Copyright 1996 St. Louis Post-Dispatch, Inc.


                              195 of 457 DOCUMENTS

                       St. Louis Post-Dispatch (Missouri)

                October 13, 1996, Sunday, FIVE STAR LIFT Edition

FLAG WAIVER; WELFARE REFORM SPURS CITIZENSHIP OATH AT 106

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 2A

LENGTH: 450 words

DATELINE: WASHINGTON


Sometime after Henriette Bolane turned 100 years old, she started bothering her
son-in-law for the application that would let her become a U.S. citizen. But
because it meant she'd have to make a trip to Baltimore, and because his
mother-in-law was so old that the matter seemed academic, he put her off again
and again.

Then, this summer, President Bill Clinton signed welfare legislation that cuts
off benefits even to legal immigrants. And Roger Guelce finally found a reason
to make the trip.

"After the law, if she's not a citizen, they're not going to give her her
Medicaid," said Guelce, explaining his understanding of the new welfare reform
act. "If she becomes a citizen, definitely they have to give that to her."

So it was that Thursday, 30 days shy of her 106th birthday, Henriette Bolane
became the oldest new American in known history.

"We're proud to have you be a citizen," said Ben Ferro, director of the
Immigration and Naturalization Service's Maryland office, who traveled to
Bolane's home in Hyattsville, Md., to administer the oath.

When Bolane was born in Haiti on Nov. 10, 1890, Benjamin Harrison was the U.S.
president, American Indians were gathering at Wounded Knee, S.D., and a new
immigration facility was about to open on Ellis Island.

But Bolane spent most of her life in the mountains of Haiti, raising corn,
avocados, rice and other staples in a region called Petite Rivier de Nips.

Bolane came to the United States from the Haitian capital of Port-au-Prince,
where she lived with a daughter after her husband, Philogene, died in 1963.

The first of her children, a daughter, came to this country when dictator Papa
Doc Duvalier came to power. Over the years, all but one of Bolane's children
followed. Bolane's move to the United States was sponsored by a daughter in
1979.

As a legal immigrant over age 55 who had called the country home for 15 years,
she became eligible for citizenship two years ago.

When her son-in-law took her to Baltimore to apply last month, the INS bent over
backward to make the process simple. The criminal background check was waived,
as it routinely is for applicants older than 79. Ditto the English language
requirement.

Eventually, it became clear to INS officials that Bolane was the oldest
immigrant to apply for citizenship.

Bolane listened as her grandson translated into Creole the oath of allegiance to
the United States. She interrupted only once. It was at the promise to "bear
arms on behalf of the United States."

"I'm too old," Bolane said. "I can't do anything for anybody. People have to do
things for me now."

The man from the INS laughed. "That's the way it should be now," he said.

LOAD-DATE: October 14, 1996

LANGUAGE: English

GRAPHIC: Color Photo - (Photo of a space shuttle.) ST. LOUIS MAGAZINE, A SPECIAL
ISSUE

                  Copyright 1996 St. Louis Post-Dispatch, Inc.


                              196 of 457 DOCUMENTS

                       St. Louis Post-Dispatch (Missouri)

               October 17, 1996, Thursday, FIVE STAR LIFT Edition

STANDING UP FOR IMMIGRATION

SECTION: EDITORIAL; Pg. 6B

LENGTH: 309 words


New York City Mayor Rudolph Giuliani has raised interesting issues in a lawsuit
challenging provisions of the new federal welfare and immigration laws. He not
only points out the potential harm that both laws will cause but he questions
the right of Washington to take over authority that has until now been exercised
by his office.

The suit, filed last week in federal court, challenges regulations under which
city workers could turn in illegal immigrants who seek government services such
as police protection, medical care and education. He noted that under an
executive order issued in the city in 1985, municipal employees could not take
such action except in the case of people suspected of breaking criminal laws.

The mayor made the unpersuasive claim that forcing city workers to ignore the
order would violate the 10th Amendment, which reserves to the states - or the
people - powers that are not expressly delegated to the federal government. He
was on firmer ground in predicting large-scale disruptions in New York with its
estimated 400,000 illegal immigrant. People who were afraid of being turned in
to the Immigration and Naturalization Service would refrain from reporting
crimes, seeking treatment for communicable disease or obtaining an education.
"Contagious diseases do not discriminate based on whether an individual has a
green card," the suit said.

By filing the lawsuit, Mr. Giuliani took one more step away from many of his
fellow Republicans and in support of immigration, which has played a significant
role in the history of his city. He has criticized both the immigration law and
the welfare law as penalizing people who deserve government help and has said he
wants to form a coalition to help fight anti-immigration efforts. Ideally, the
resolution will bring fairer treatment by the federal government.

LOAD-DATE: October 18, 1996

LANGUAGE: English

TYPE: EDITORIAL

                  Copyright 1996 St. Louis Post-Dispatch, Inc.


                              197 of 457 DOCUMENTS

                       St. Louis Post-Dispatch (Missouri)

              October 30, 1996, Wednesday, FIVE STAR LIFT Edition

CRIMINALS SWORN IN AS U.S. CITIZENS

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 3A

LENGTH: 451 words

DATELINE: WASHINGTON


When Joel Lopez Jauregui of Los Angeles was sworn in as a U.S. citizen last
month, court records show he was on probation for a conviction in 1994 for
drunken driving and carrying a concealed weapon.

Immigrants with criminal records such as Jauregui's are normally deemed
ineligible for naturalization, legal experts say. In fact, resident aliens
caught carrying concealed weapons are often deported.

Government sources say Jauregui benefited from a bureaucratic snafu at the
Immigration and Naturalization Service. By its own admission, the agency has
conferred citizenship on an undetermined number of immigrants who should have
been disqualified because of their criminal records.

At the same time that Jauregui was naturalized, according to confidentia l
agency records obtained by The Los Angeles Times, the agency also granted
citizenship to Wichen Srichongsirikull, 40, of Garden Grove, Calif., a man of
Chinese descent who was convicted twice of spousal abuse in 1992 and 1993, and
Micahel Dingva Galabe, 33, of Valencia, Calif., a Cameroon native with a history
of drunken-driving charges. The criminal histories of these men were provided to
the Immigration Service by the FBI, which used fingerprints submitted with the
applications for naturalization.

According to knowledgeable sources inside the immigration office in Los Angeles,
the three men are representative of many immigrants who were naturalized
improperly over the last year because the agency failed to obtain FBI clearance
of their records before they were scheduled to appear at naturalization
ceremonies.

Although the immigration agency's system for checking criminal records of
immigrants seeking citizenship has been unreliable for many years, officials
say, the problem has become more acute in the last year because of an influx of
more than 1 million applications under President Bill Clinton's "Citizenship
USA" program. Not until Republicans recently seized on this problem as a
campaign issue did Immigration Service officials begin to take steps to correct
it.

Lawyers and agency employees familiar with immigration law and agency procedures
said Jauregui, Srichongsirikull and Galabe almost certainly would have been
denied citizenship if the agency had obtained their criminal records before
scheduling them for naturalization.

Exactly how many new U.S. citizens have criminal records similar to these three
men is the subject of a dispute. Of 1.2 million immigrants naturalized over the
last year, Gov. Pete Wilson of Calif. and other Republicans charge, as many as
100,000 had criminal records that should have disqualified them. Agency
officials say the number does not exceed a few hundred.

LOAD-DATE: October 30, 1996

LANGUAGE: English

GRAPHIC: PHOTO; Photo From AP - A staff member for a House subcommittee sifts
through Immigration Service files Tuesday on immigrants who became citizens
without criminal checks.

                  Copyright 1996 St. Louis Post-Dispatch, Inc.


                              198 of 457 DOCUMENTS

                       St. Louis Post-Dispatch (Missouri)

                 November 18, 1996, Monday, THREE STAR Edition

200 JOIN RALLY FOR IMMIGRANT WHO MAY BE DEPORTED TO IRELAND

BYLINE: Aisha Sultan Of The Post-Dispatch Staff

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 3B

LENGTH: 379 words


In an 11th-hour show of support, nearly 200 friends and backers of Matt Morrison
rallied on the steps of City Hall in University City Sunday afternoon.

They want President Bill Clinton to stop the impending deportation of Morrison,
who was a prisoner for 10 years in Northern Ireland.

When he was 19 and a member of the Irish Republican Army, Morrison fired a shot
that missed hitting a constable. For the past 11 years, he and his American-born
wife and two children have lived in University City.

The Immigration and Naturalization Service called for Morrison's deportation
because of his former involvement with a terrorist group and because he did not
report his imprisonment on his initial immigration application.

The crowd of supporters Sunday wore traditional Irish colors - green, white and
orange - and waved American and Irish flags. They held signs and banners that
said, among other things, "Where's Justice, Fairness, Compassion? Let the
Morrisons Stay."

After 3 1/2 years of fighting the deportation, Morrison's wife, Francie
Morrison, said, "We're sick of it. We're tired of it. But we don't know what
else to do."

In October, the immigration service dismissed their appeal. The Morrisons hope,
though, that a hearing before a judge in early December will lead to a full
hearing.

Until then, various groups are uniting efforts for a massive lobbying campaign
aimed at Clinton, Attorney General Janet Reno and Missouri Gov. Mel Carnahan.

Meanwhile, local supporters are raising funds and their friend's spirits. Matt
Morrison said he had been startled to see a poster with a drawing of him next to
George Washington. The caption above their portraits read: "They both shot at
British Troops."

The Morrisons know their chances for staying in America are slim, but this has
not tempered their efforts. Seven-year-old Matthew Morrison read aloud a letter
he wrote to the president.

He said that although moving to Ireland might not be so bad, "I would always
rather live in the house I grew up in."

In between speakers, Francie Morrison reminded the crowd that "we're not here to
say goodbye - not yet."

The rally ended with Matthew Morrison, along with his younger sister Katie, 4,
singing "God Bless America" with the crowd.

LOAD-DATE: November 18, 1996

LANGUAGE: English

                  Copyright 1996 St. Louis Post-Dispatch, Inc.


                              199 of 457 DOCUMENTS

                       St. Louis Post-Dispatch (Missouri)

               December 17, 1996, Tuesday, FIVE STAR LIFT Edition

UNWISE ATTACK ON IMMIGRATION

BYLINE: Maggie Gallagher Copyright Maggie Gallagher (Universal Press)

SECTION: EDITORIAL; Pg. 7B

LENGTH: 665 words

MAGGIE GALLAGHER COLUMN

DATELINE: LONG ISLAND,NEW YORK


Journalists transfixed by Republican battles over abortion are looking in the
wrong place: It's immigration, stupid, that is emerging as the most divisive new
issue in the GOP coalition.

The debate is being fueled by a sudden surge in legal immigration, which jumped
25 percent in fiscal 1996 to 900,000 immigrants (plus an additional 100,000
asylum-seekers and other-category legal immigrants). According to newly revised
Census Bureau projections, the U.S. population will swell to nearly 400 million
by the year 2050; 93 percent of the population growth will be caused by
immigration that has occurred just since 1991.

Sensing the popular anxieties aroused by such huge and sustained influxes, many
major conservative voices seek to head the debate off at the pass. Linda Chavez
and The Wall Street Journal's influential Paul Gigot recently publicly warned
the GOP that even raising the issue may alienate "culturally conservative"
Hispanic voters, one of the fastest-growing ethnic groups.

"Since both houses of Congress rejected cuts in legal immigration in 1996,
members are unlikely to revisit this contentious issue again next year," the
Cato Institute's Stuart Anderson told The Washington Post. Wishful thinking?

Even many of the Republicans' harshest critics of illegal immigration do not
support any effort to curb legal immigrants (though each year legal immigrants
outnumber illegal immigrants 3 to 1). Last year, for example, Rep. Dana
Rohrbacher, R-Calif., an outspoken opponent of illegal immigration, called Sen.
Alan Simpson's proposal to cut legal immigration "very harmful."

Democrats, it may be presumed, are too dazzled by visions of more minority
voters to even contemplate the question of whether current immigration laws best
serve America's long-run interest. But what explains this strange reluctance on
the part of Republicans to engage the issue?

I posed this question recently to Peter Brimelow, who virtually singlehandedly
ignited the immigration debate with his book "Alien Nation." How did he account
for the GOP's failure to push a popular issue in an election year? Was it a
classic case of choosing business over national interests? "It's the power of
myth," he told me. "I get the sense these senators and congressmen are just
viscerally attached to the 'nation of immigrants' sentimental myths."

Brimelow's goal has been to burst these myths like a balloon, hurtling data and
barbs with equal facility. Other anti-immigrationists, like John O'Sullivan,
urge us to recognize that Americans are a people, like any other, bound by ties
of consanguinity, language and culture, which high immigration threatens.

I disagree. Not on the question of immigration itself, where I agree with the
conclusions of the congressional commission headed by Democrat B arbara Jordan
(cut legal immigration, and admit fewer unskilled workers).

Nonetheless, I think attacking America's sense of itself as a "nation of
immigrants" is the wrong way to go about it. America does need what Brimelow
rather denigratingly calls our immigration myths. You know: America the melting
pot, the nation of immigrants.

The immigration myth intertwines with and invigorates other vibrant American
myths: America as land of pioneer spirit; America as a shining city on the hill,
a beacon of freedom to other peoples. Every day the success of hard-working
immigrants confirms us as the land of opportunity.

Not by bread alone are nations sustained, but by stories. If Americans are a
people, it is in part because of our shared commitment to the struggles, the
triumphs and the virtues embedded in tales like these.

So I remain firmly committed to our most cherished immigrant myths. What I don't
understand is why they need to interfere with commonsense immigration reform.

Why is a million immigrants a year the magic number? Can't we admit 550, 000
immigrants, as the Jordan commission suggested, and still call ourselves "a
nation of immigrants"?

LOAD-DATE: December 17, 1996

LANGUAGE: English

                  Copyright 1996 St. Louis Post-Dispatch, Inc.


                              200 of 457 DOCUMENTS

                       St. Louis Post-Dispatch (Missouri)

               February 6, 1997, Thursday, FIVE STAR LIFT EDITION

OFFICIALS SEND LETTERS TELLING IMMIGRANTS OF WELFARE CUTOFFS

BYLINE: 1997,; New York Times News Service

SECTION: NEWS, Pg. 05A

LENGTH: 557 words

DATELINE: WASHINGTON


The Clinton administration began sending letters to 1 million legal immigrants
Wednesday to tell them that they might lose welfare benefits soon because they
are not citizens.

The letters went out even as President Bill Clinton prepared to ask Congress for
more money to continue benefits for some of the immigrants scheduled to lose aid
under the new welfare law.

In his State of the Union message Tuesday, Clinton urged Congress to restore
health and disability benefits for noncitizens. "To do otherwise is simply
unworthy of a great nation of immigrants," he said.

The deadline for mailing the letters is March 31, but officials said they
intended to send the notices over the next eight weeks.

The benefits, under the Supplemental Security Income program, average $ 410 a
month. The recipients all have low incomes. Some are elderly; many are disabled.
Some live in nursing homes. Some have lived in the United States for years but
have not become citizens.

The letters invite immigrants to notify any Social Security office if they
believe that they qualify for benefits under one of the exceptions.

The law allows Supplemental Security Income benefits only for citizens and some
noncitizens, including refugees, military veterans, active-duty members of the
armed forces and people who have worked in the United States for at least 10
years.

The Congressional Budget Office estimates that 500,000 immigrants eventually
will be cut from the rolls after all appeals are reviewed.

In his fiscal 1998 budget, to be issued today, Clinton will propose new spending
to soften the effects of the welfare law on poor people and immigrants. It
appears that the proposals would restore 40 percent of all the money saved.

Yvette Jackson, deputy administrator of the Federal Food and Consumer Service,
said many legal immigrants also would lose food stamps from April 1 to Aug. 22.
Decisions will be made by state officials, who run the program under federal
rules.

Budget documents show that Clinton will ask Congress to restore Supplemental
Security Income benefits and Medicaid for more than 250,000 legal immigrants who
became disabled after entering the country.

Republicans in Congress promised to weigh the president's request carefully but
said they were unlikely to approve it.

Rep. Bill Archer, R-Texas, chairman of the Ways and Means Committee, said: "The
ink isn't even dry on the welfare reform package. We ought to see how it's
working before we open the doors to spend a lot more taxpayers' money on
aliens."

Budget documents show that Clinton also will offer these proposals:

The Transportation Department would provide $ 100 million to help pay travel
costs for welfare recipients so they could get jobs.

The government would offer new tax credits to employers who hire long-term
welfare recipients.

Refugees would be allowed to receive welfare, food stamps and other government
benefits for their first seven years in the United States. Under the new law,
such payments end after five years.

New restrictions on food stamps for able-bodied adults would be relaxed.  The
government would not terminate their food stamp benefits unless they refused to
take jobs offered to them.

In his new budget, Clinton requests money to subsidize jobs for 400,000 food
stamp recipients.

LOAD-DATE: February 7, 1997

LANGUAGE: English

                  Copyright 1997 St. Louis Post-Dispatch, Inc.


                              201 of 457 DOCUMENTS

                       St. Louis Post-Dispatch (Missouri)

                February 7, 1997, Friday, FIVE STAR LIFT EDITION

6 WOMEN PLEAD AGAINST DEPORTATIONS;
IRISH AFFAIRS COMMITTEE CONSIDERS TESTIMONY

BYLINE: S.J.; Cahn; Post-Dispatch Washington Bureau

SECTION: NEWS, Pg. 03C

LENGTH: 433 words

DATELINE: WASHINGTON


Speaking carefully and apologizing for the anger in her voice, University City's
Francie Morrison asked a congressional committee Thursday to stop the
deportation of seven men - including her husband - to Northern Ireland.

"I don't know how to tell you what the deportation proceedings have done to my
family," Morrison told the Congressional Ad Hoc Committee for Irish Affairs.
"Our lives, like other folks here, have been consumed by deportation hearings."

Morrison joined five other women whose Irish-born husbands face deportation to
Northern Ireland.

Her husband, Matt Morrison, is a former member of the Irish Republican Army who
spent 10 years in prison for firing a shot at a police officer in Northern
Ireland. The shot missed. He faces a deportation hearing, set for March 11.

The Morrisons have two children.

The Immigration and Naturalization Service wants to deport Morrison because of
his former involvement with a terrorist group and because he did not report his
imprisonment on his initial immigration application.

"To maintain this nation's ability to use these statutory tools effectively in
the worldwide struggle against terrorism of all stripes, it is essential that we
apply these provisions evenhandedly," David Martin, general counsel for the
Immigration and Naturalization Service, said Thursday.

Martin faced a hostile audience in the committee and audience. Many in the
audience wore stickers with the colors of the Irish flag reading, "Stop the
Deportation."

The women recounted stories of Northern Ireland, where they said they were
intimidated, harassed and physically abused by British police.

Committee members signed a letter that urges President Bill Clinton to meet with
the committee's four chairmen to discuss how to resolve the deportations.

Clinton has the authority to suspend the deportations. On Jan. 24, Rep. William
L. Clay, D-Mo., wrote the president on behalf of Morrison.

"They don't believe they've done anything wrong," said Rep. Jim Walsh, R-N.Y.
Walsh was among several committee members who questioned Martin about whether
the men had done anything criminal.

The women said they worried about what the future might hold.

"What I found terrified me," Morrison said of a trip she took to Northern
Ireland. "What we would be forced into would be going to a place where we would
have no home and would have to live on the dole."

Rep. Tom Manton, co-chairman of the ad-hoc committee, said the session helped
"put a human spin on all this." The committee learned who the people involved
are, he said.

LOAD-DATE: February 8, 1997

LANGUAGE: English

                  Copyright 1997 St. Louis Post-Dispatch, Inc.


                              202 of 457 DOCUMENTS

                       St. Louis Post-Dispatch (Missouri)

              February 19, 1997, Wednesday, FIVE STAR LIFT EDITION

WRONGFUL GROUNDS FOR DEPORTATION

BYLINE: Anthony Lewis; Copyright New York Times News Service

SECTION: EDITORIAL, Pg. 07B, ANTHONY LEWIS COLUMN

LENGTH: 695 words

DATELINE: BOSTON


For 10 years now, the United States has been trying to deport eight Palestinian
activists who live in California. The anniversary of their original arrest
occurred last month, and it should have been marked as setting a record for
stubborn wrongheadedness on the part of the U.S. government.

The eight are supporters of the Popular Front for the Liberation of Palestine
(PFLP), a group that has carried out terrorist activities. But they have not
themselves committed or advocated terrorism - a fact attest ed to by William
Webster when he was director of the FBI.

When the case began, the government charged that the eight were affiliated with
a group that "advocates world communism." That was a ground for deportation
under the McCarran-Walter Immigration Act. But the provision was held
unconstitutional, and in 1990 Congress repealed it.

Then the Immigration and Naturalization Service moved to deport the two
permanent residents among the eight for providing material support to a
terrorist organization, the PFLP. (The six others were charged with technical
violations of their immigration status.)

Lawyers for the eight challenged the proceedings as selective prosecution,
because the Immigration Service has not tried to deport supporters of many
non-Palestinian groups that have committed terrorist acts, such as the
Nicaraguan Contras.

U.S. District Judge Stephen Wilson issued injunctions against the deportation
proceedings. He found that the eight had carried out peaceful activities such as
raising humanitarian aid and selling newspapers - activities protected by the
First Amendment - and had indeed been selectively targeted.

That decision was upheld by a unanimous panel of the 9th U.S. Circuit Court of
Appeals. It held that non-citizens in this country have the same right to free
speech and association under the First Amendment as do citizens. The court
condemned the idea of guilt by association and said the eight could be deported
only on proof that they intended to assist illegal actions by the PFLP.

The government did not try to take that ruling to the Supreme Court.  Instead it
went back before Wilson with 10,000 pages of what it asserted was evidence that
the eight intended to further PFLP terrorism.

The government's "evidence" was in good part the product of FBI surveillance of
the eight. It showed that they had attended political meetings, sold magazines
and the like. It also included an FBI document urging that one of the eight,
Khader Hamide, be targeted because he showed "great leadership ability" and his
removal would "severely hamper" PFLP activity in southern California.

After reading the 10,000 pages, Wilson rejected the government's claim. He said
the FBI surveillance had found only peaceful activities protected by the First
Amendment.

Last month, government lawyers made a new argument, based on the restrictive
Immigration Act passed by Congress last year. They said a section of the act
required Wilson to dismiss his injunctions and let the deportation cases go
ahead. The section allows judicial review only of a final order of deportation,
barring earlier lawsuits to stop illegal actions by the Immigration Service.

Wilson held that the restrictions in the 1996 law could not, constitutionally,
be applied in this case. The promise that there would be judicial review at the
end of years of proceedings was "a fiction," he said, because a court could not
then develop the facts on selective targeting of individuals for their political
views.

The government's behavior in this case has outraged just about everyone who has
dealt with it. Last year, Wilson, who was appointed to the bench by President
Ronald Reagan, said he was disturbed by a government lawyer's argument that when
the government has a compelling interest, it "can do pretty much what it wants
to do."

The PFLP is not a sympathetic cause, to me or to most Americans. But our
constitutional freedom depends on not allowing the government to break the rules
when it moves against unpopular individuals or interests. It is time for
Attorney General Janet Reno to end this outrageous case. Enough is enough.

LOAD-DATE: February 20, 1997

LANGUAGE: English

                  Copyright 1997 St. Louis Post-Dispatch, Inc.


                              203 of 457 DOCUMENTS

                       St. Louis Post-Dispatch (Missouri)

                 February 23, 1997, Sunday, THREE STAR EDITION

CHANGE IN LAW CREATES 'CRIMINAL ALIENS';
LEGAL U.S. RESIDENTS WITH RECORDS FACE DEPORTATION WITHOUT WAIVER

BYLINE: Los Angeles Times

SECTION: NEWS, Pg. 14D

LENGTH: 1199 words

DATELINE: LOS ANGELES


Saeid Aframian was once a prosperous jewelry salesman and lived the fashionable
Bel Air section of Los Angeles.

Today he shuffles about in plastic slippers and a government-issue red jumpsuit.

Aframian, one of thousands of Persian Jews who fled to the United States after
the Islamic revolution in Iran, faces deportation to a homeland where human
rights advocates say religious minorities continue to be persecuted.

His undoing: a conviction for credit-card fraud and a two-year prison stint in
California a decade ago for receiving stolen property - two watches and a gold
broach.

New immigration laws passed by Congress last year leave Aframian and many other
longtime legal residents with criminal histories newly categorized as deportable
"aggravated felons." The catch-all definition now includes everyone from
murderers and drug traffickers to shoplifters.

For these offenders, Congress eliminated even the possibility of a so-called
waiver of deportation. The last-chance opportunity was heretofore available to
all but the most flagrant criminals who could demonstrate compelling "equities"
- such as proof of reform, lack of ties to their native lands and likely extreme
hardship to U.S. citizen dependents.

According to estimates by immigration attorneys, the law could affect thousands
of noncitizen immigrants who have committed crimes but have been residing in the
United States legally for many years.

Now irrelevant in the gaze of the law is Aframian's avowed rehabilitation, his
17 years in the United States, his alienation from his tumultuous homeland and
his financial support of his wife, a U.S. citizen, and two young children, both
born in the United States.

Under the new law, it makes no difference if the offenses triggering deportation
for those defined as aggravated felons occurred last week or decades ago, or
whether the person has led an exemplary life since his offense. Even some
misdemeanor offenses, if they draw maximum one-year sentences, can now be deemed
aggravated felonies under federal immigration law.

Two laws enacted last year severely restrict federal court review of deportation
orders, while mandating detention without bond for deportees with criminal
records - a provision that Attorney General Janet Reno has put off for a year,
citing a lack of space in overflowing Immigration and Naturalization Service
detention centers.

Despite the use of legislation targeting terrorists, officials concede that the
vast majority of those affected are common criminals. In the case of Aframian,
his lawyer, David Ross of Los Angeles, notes that his client is being forced
back to a nation that the State Department considers an abettor of terrorism.

That some deportees are culturally and even linguistically alienated from their
birthplaces is also irrelevant, legally.

"I've always thought of myself as an American," said Eremasi Ernesta Attah, who
moved to the United States 20 years ago at the age of 4 and now faces
deportation back to her native Nigeria. "I would be an outcast (there)," she
said.

A mother of two U.S.-born daughters, ages 6 and 2, Attah is an admitted thief,
having twice been convicted of shoplifting from the neighborhood Kmart and Alpha
Beta market, most recently in 1995. Her take included a hot plate, cosmetics and
baby clothes. Attah served three months in jail for the shoplifting convictions,
but the Immigration and Naturalization Service calls her an aggravated felon and
is moving to deport her - without the chance for a waiver.

To the congressional majority, those complaining now are simply "criminal
aliens" who for too long have enlisted the aid of attorneys skilled at
identifying legal loopholes to aid lawbreakers in averting deportation.

"It's outrageous that Americans should be asked to put up with crimes from
individuals from other countries who have been graciously granted the unique
right to live here," said Allen Kay, spokesman for Rep. Lamar Smith, R-Texas,
who, as head of the House Judiciary immigration subcommittee, spearheaded the
changes.

Added David Martin, the Immigration and Naturalization Service's general
counsel: "The basic, fundamental message is: 'If you want to retain your rights
to have permanent residence in this country, it's not that hard: Just don't
commit a crime."

President Bill Clinton's administration has heralded its stepped-up campaign
against "criminal aliens," energizing the immigration bureaucracy that has long
been assailed for failing to deport even violent lawbreakers. Today, a
reinforced Immigration and Naturalization Service regularly picks up deportable
offenders at jails and prisons; others are intercepted at citizenship
interviews, airports, borders, work sites and other locales.

Four Immigration and Naturalization Service agents arrested Aframian shortly
after dawn on Dec. 16 at his home, handcuffing him in front of his stunned wife
and the couple's daughter, 7.

To detractors, the congressional revisions are a manifestation of a nationwide
anti-immigrant backlash. In their view, the policy amounts to a kind of double
jeopardy that imposes the equivalent of a life sentence on legal residents who
have paid for their crimes, while simultaneously dividing families, pushing
dependents left behind onto public assistance - and sometimes even endangering
deportees' lives.

The story of Refugio Rubio seems the classic tale of the upwardly mobile
immigrant: A longtime field hand and laborer who has lived legally in the United
States for almost 34 years, Rubio built his own home in the San Francisco Bay
area community of Vallejo and is the patriarch of a family that includes seven
sons, all U.S. citizens.

But there is one black mark. Rubio, now 57, was convicted in 1972 of possession
with intent to distribute marijuana. That episode came to haunt him when an
unsuspecting Rubio walked into his citizenship interview at an Immigration and
Naturalization Service office last March - and was arrested. A standard
fingerprint check turned up his record. Ironically, it was the fear of
congressional action against noncitizens that had finally motivated him to apply
for citizenship.

Rubio is now free on bond until his hearing in June, but he seems destined to be
ordered back to Mexico, a nation where he says he has nothing.

Adriana Upchurch and her mother came 26 years ago from Mexico, when Upchurch was
2. After high school, she enlisted in the Marines, where she remained for eight
years.

While attached to Camp Pendleton, however, the Persian Gulf War veteran got
swept up in an off-base drug scene. She was convicted in 1995 of possession for
sale of methamphetamine and possession of a shotgun. Upchurch served 13 months
of a two-year sentence before being released from state prison last spring. The
Immigration and Naturalization Service moved promptly to deport her.

Like many others now facing expulsion, Upchurch probably could have qualified as
a U.S. citizen years ago, before the onset of her legal troubles. But she never
bothered, remaining a "resident alien."

Citizenship status would have insulated her from deportation even after her drug
conviction.

LOAD-DATE: February 23, 1997

LANGUAGE: English

                  Copyright 1997 St. Louis Post-Dispatch, Inc.


                              204 of 457 DOCUMENTS

                       St. Louis Post-Dispatch (Missouri)

                 February 23, 1997, Sunday, THREE STAR EDITION

MORE COUPLES MARRYING TO TRY TO AVOID DEPORTATION

BYLINE: AP

SECTION: NEWS, Pg. 07A

LENGTH: 307 words

DATELINE: NEW YORK


With an April 1 deportation deadline looming, marriage bureaus are being swamped
with couples who are either really in love or just in love with America.

Hundreds of sweating, edgy couples, some holding hands, waited in a stifling hot
corridor of Manhattan's city-run marriage office recently to get a $ 30 license
that for some holds the key to freedom.

As tempers exploded around them, overwhelmed security guards blocked the door
that leads to the red-carpeted marriage "chapel" as the horde pushed and
screamed to get ahead.

" 'Scuse me! 'Scuse me!" a woman who gave up yelled above the mix of foreign
languages as she escaped through a sea of Sikh turbans, dreadlocks, saris and
even a few corsage-adorned, white wedding dresses.

The tougher immigration laws make it easier to deport illegal aliens unless they
can prove that being forced to leave would result in "exceptional and unusual
hardship" to a family member who is an American citizen or permanent legal
resident.

The overall crackdown on immigration also might have something to do with the
surge. With federal benefits being cut off even for legal noncitizens, people in
the country on temporary visas apparently feel that marrying a citizen or legal
resident will put them on safer ground.

Marriage to a citizen does not guarantee legal residency. Couples must prove
later to the Immigration and Naturalization Service that they are together for
real - an ordeal that prompts some to carry photo albums and love letters into
their interviews.

Amid such hopes and fears, the number of weddings in immigrant communities is
soaring. In Manhattan last month, there were 2,109 marriages, an 88 percent
increase over the same time last year.

In the Miami area, 2,532 marriage certificates were issued last month, up from
1,973 from January of last year.

LOAD-DATE: February 23, 1997

LANGUAGE: English

                  Copyright 1997 St. Louis Post-Dispatch, Inc.


                              205 of 457 DOCUMENTS

                       St. Louis Post-Dispatch (Missouri)

              February 27, 1997, Thursday, FIVE STAR LIFT EDITION

WELFARE OVERHAUL PUTS IMMIGRANTS IN A PANIC;
CITIZENSHIP APPLICATIONS MORE THAN TRIPLED IN LAST 4 YEARS

BYLINE: Victor Volland; Of The Post-Dispatch Staff

SECTION: NEWS, Pg. 03B

LENGTH: 527 words



Nina Bat, 58, was plainly worried.

The Ukrainian native, a divorcee who lives alone, had not bothered about
becoming a citizen since immigrating here 17 years ago from the former Soviet
Union. Six years ago she had to quit her factory job because of failing
eyesight.

Bat and other legal immigrants are rushing to get naturalized so they'll be
eligible for the public benefits for which they've paid taxes.

"There's been an absolute panic" among immigrants, especially the aged and
disabled, over Congress' overhaul of the welfare system, said Norman Tilles,
president of the New York-based Hebrew Immigrant Aid Society.

The fear has been heightened by other factors, such as lda California's
Proposition 187, which would deny welfare benefits to illegal aliens. That
measure was approved by voters but still is tied up in the courts.

This week, Bat diligently filled out a naturalization application form with the
help of Julia Ostropolsky, a social worker with the St. Louis Jewish Family and
Children's Service, at a workshop at the Jewish Federation of St. Louis.

"She's afraid she might lose her (Social Security) benefits if she's not a
citizen," explained Ostropolsky.

Actually, Bat, who had made neckties here for 11 years and is now legally blind,
is fully vested in the Social Security system, Ostropolsky said. But by becoming
a citizen, she also will get coverage by Medicaid or Medicare and eligibility
for other welfare benefits, such as food stamps.

The two-day workshop for professionals and volunteers from Jewish and non-Jewish
agencies here who deal with immigrants and refugees was one of a series held in
major cities by the Hebrew Immigrant Aid Society.

"These people . . .

feel like the rules are being changed and the safety net being pulled out from
under them, " said Ostropolsky.

Legal immigrants are lumped in the public mind with illegal ones, and lately all
residents with an un-American accent seem to be suspect, Tilles said. But rather
than being an economic drain, legal immigrants pay $ 27 billion more in taxes
than they receive in public benefits and services, the Urban Institute says.

Tilles said immigrants processed by the immigrant aid society generally find
paying jobs and become self-sufficient within a year.

Immigration has remained relatively flat in the United States during the 1990s,
while applications for citizenship have more than tripled in the last four
years, Tilles said. Applications rose to 1.3 million in 1996 and are expected to
reach 1.8 million this year.

About 100 legal immigrants from the area served as practice interview subjects
for 25 trainees from social agencies in Missouri, Illinois and six other states.
The trainees, who included social workers and counselors from Catholic
Charities, the Parkway School District, English Language School and St. Louis
Eritrean community, will go back to train colleagues in readying immigrants for
citizenship.

In turn, the immigrant subjects here got all their paperwork done for their
naturalization applications, including the required photo ID and fingerprinting
for background check by the FBI.

LOAD-DATE: February 28, 1997

LANGUAGE: English

                  Copyright 1997 St. Louis Post-Dispatch, Inc.


                              206 of 457 DOCUMENTS

                       St. Louis Post-Dispatch (Missouri)

                March 5, 1997, Wednesday, FIVE STAR LIFT EDITION

IMMIGRATION OFFICIAL DENIES BEING RUSHED

BYLINE: 1997,; Reuters News Service

SECTION: NEWS, Pg. 08A

LENGTH: 243 words

DATELINE: WASHINGTON


The head of the Immigration and Naturalization Service denied Republican charges
Tuesday that she came under White House pressure to speed up approval of
citizenship applications before last November's elections.

But Commissioner Doris Meissner said members of Vice President Al Gore's staff
did meet with her and other agency officials to suggest ways to improve
procedures.

"Assistance was offered on ways to streamline the process," Meissner said at a
House Appropriations Subcommittee hearing.

Asked if the goal of the Citizenship USA program was to approve 1 million
citizenship applications before the November elections, she replied, "No such
goal was communicated to me.i"

The Washington Post reported Tuesday that the White House was under pres sure
from Hispanic groups to speed up citizenship approvals and turned to Gore's
office to help eliminate the backlog. The immigration service did approve just
over 1 million citizenship applications in the year before the elections, a
record.

Subcommittee Chairman Hal Rogers, R-Ky., said he was upset because 71,000
immigrants were naturalized even though they had criminal records, and another
180,000 immigrants were granted citizenship without criminal background checks.

"The INS is out of control," Rogers told Meissner and Attorney General Janet
Reno.

Reno said the Justice Department's inspector general was investigating the
problem with the criminal background checks.

LOAD-DATE: March 5, 1997

LANGUAGE: English

                  Copyright 1997 St. Louis Post-Dispatch, Inc.


                              207 of 457 DOCUMENTS

                       St. Louis Post-Dispatch (Missouri)

                April 10, 1997, Thursday, FIVE STAR LIFT EDITION

CLINTON ADMINISTRATION DEFENDS CUTTING OFF BENEFITS FOR LEGAL IMMIGRANTS

BYLINE: David Broder; Copyright Washington Post Writers

SECTION: EDITORIAL, Pg. 07B, DAVID BRODER COLUMN

LENGTH: 756 words

DATELINE: SANTA FE, N.M.


Last week, New Mexico's Republican Gov. Gary Johnson vetoed a welfare reform
bill passed by the Democratic Legislature that would, among other things, have
allowed legal aliens to receive benefits for up to another five years.

His veto was denounced by the Albuquerque and Santa Fe newspapers and by many
Democrats, including Attorney General Tom Udall, who hopes to challenge him for
governor next year. Udall, the son of former Secretary of Interior Stewart
Udall, previously had ingratiated himself with the state's large Hispanic
population by filing a brief in the U.S. Supreme Court opposing statutes enacted
in other states making English the official language of government.

There is nothing unusual about immigration becoming the center of hot political
debate. The Justice Department has been in court defending regulations derived
from the tough new immigration law passed by the last Congress and now under
challenge from civil libertarians and groups representing Latino and other
ethnic groups.

But there is a special irony in hearing the emotionally charged immigration
debate here in this state, where Spaniards arrived long before Anglos and where
the place names and historic sites testify to their legacy.

But that is not the only irony in this situation. In this state, as in Arizona,
Florida and California, President Bill Clinton significantly increased his share
of the Latino vote last November by depicting the Republicans as enemies of
immigrants. Particularly in California, where Republican Gov. Pete Wilson had
championed Proposition 187, which sought to end medical and education benefits
for children of undocumented aliens, the Democrats had great success.

But now it is the Clinton Justice Department that is defending the provisions of
the restrictive federal immigration law.

As for the welfare bill's provisions ending benefits for legal aliens, Vice
President Al Gore told the California Legislature last month that it was "harsh
and unfair . . . to tell 4 million people in California who work here, pay taxes
here, maybe even serve in the military here . . . that you are not going to
receive the helping hand that everyone else who is legally living here is
entitled to."

Gore said the cutoff of benefits to legal aliens was "un-American" and "unworthy
of a nation of immigrants."

He did not explain why Clinton had signed the welfare bill containing these
provisions at a ceremony where Gore led the applause.

According to an account in the March Atlantic Monthly by Peter Edelman, who quit
a senior post in the Department of Health and Human Services in protest against
Clinton's decision, everyone in the White House was fully aware of the impact of
the bills provisions on legal immigrants.

Among other things, the bill ends Supplemental Security Income benefits this
summer for half a million elderly noncitizens with serious mental or physical
disabilities. For many of these longtime legal residents, SSI is their only
source of income. Regulations announced last month make it slightly easier for
some of them with severe disabilities to be exempted from answering the
examination questions necessary to become a citizen.

Patrick J. McDonnell, a Los Angeles Times reporter, noted in a story last month
that "bulging naturalization backlogs - almost 1 million applicants are in the
pipeline nationwide - make it extremely unlikely that those applying now will
attain citizenship in time to avoid the August termination date for benefits.
The Immigration and Naturalization Service now takes at least nine months to
process applications, and delays are growing."

As Wendell Primus, a colleague of Edelman's who also handed in a protest
resignation, has pointed out Uf that the cutoff of benefits to legal immigrants
was fueled by a desire for budgetary savings (an estimated $ 22 billion in six
years) and by the belief that many were abusing the system by claiming benefits
soon after arriving.

That belief is wrong. Only one in five legal aliens receiving SSI went on the
rolls in their first two years of residency. Two of five had lived here (and
paid taxes) for more than six years before filing claims.

When the federal government washed its hands of the problem of providing a
safety net for legal aliens, it left it to the states - which in many cases,
like in New Mexico, placed the fate of these people in the hands of a single
official like Gov. Johnson.

It ought to weigh on the consciences of those who knew what they were doing was
wrong.

LOAD-DATE: April 10, 1997

LANGUAGE: English

                  Copyright 1997 St. Louis Post-Dispatch, Inc.


                              208 of 457 DOCUMENTS

                       St. Louis Post-Dispatch (Missouri)

                  May 11, 1997, Sunday, FIVE STAR LIFT EDITION

U.S. JAILS IRAQIS WHO AIDED CIA AFTER WAR

BYLINE: New York Times News Service

SECTION: NEWS, Pg. 06A

LENGTH: 335 words

DATELINE: WASHINGTON


A group of Iraqis who worked for the CIA in a failed attempt to undermine Saddam
Hussein and were offered refuge by the United States now are in jail in
California, facing expulsion.

The proceedings against them are cloaked in secrecy. But court docu ments and
interviews show that at least 13 of the refugees stand accused by the
Immigration and Naturalization Service of being "a danger to the security of the
United States."

White House spokesman David Johnson estimated that 25 Iraqis were being held.

Government officials and lawyers for the accused said the charges stem from the
FBI's suspicions that some or all of the men might be Iraqi spies or potential
terrorists. The men are seeking political asylum in the United States. But they
could be deported, possibly to Iraq, if the accusations are upheld by
immigration judges.

In telephone interviews from jail, four of the men insisted that they had been
falsely accused and were victims of fratricidal infighting among the resistance
groups, not secret agents for Saddam.

The Iraqis in custody in California include defectors from Iraq's army who
joined CIA-backed resistance groups. They fled their country with their families
after the secret operation collapsed in disaster last year.

Court records available do not give the specific basis for the charges against
the jailed men. Carole Florman, a Justice Department spokeswoman, said the
federal regulation allowing a political asylum claim to be denied on national
security grounds is "very vague and broadly constructed."

She said immigration officials have not denied the jailed men's requests for
asylum but referred them to immigration judges for review.

The resistance groups, the Iraqi National Accord and the Iraqi National
Congress, had major roles in a $ 20 million-a-year CIA operation to try to
undermine the Iraqi leadership. The clandestine effort began shortly after the
Persian Gulf War ended in 1991 and went on for five years, without success.

LOAD-DATE: May 12, 1997

LANGUAGE: English

                  Copyright 1997 St. Louis Post-Dispatch, Inc.


                              209 of 457 DOCUMENTS

                       St. Louis Post-Dispatch (Missouri)

                    May 11, 1997, Sunday, THREE STAR EDITION

IRAQIS WHO WORKED FOR CIA AFTER WAR FACE EXPULSION FROM U.S.

BYLINE: New York Times News Service

SECTION: NEWS, Pg. 03A

LENGTH: 415 words

DATELINE: WASHINGTON


A group of Iraqis who worked for the CIA in a failed attempt to undermine Saddam
Hussein and were offered refuge by the United States now are in jail in
California, facing expulsion.

The proceedings against them are cloaked in secrecy. But court docu ments and
interviews show that at least 13 of the refugees stand accused by the
Immigration and Naturalization Service of being "a danger to the security of the
United States."

Government officials and lawyers for the accused said the charges stem from the
FBI's suspicions that some or all of the men might be Iraqi spies or potential
terrorists. The men are seeking political asylum in the United States. But they
could be deported, possibly to Iraq.

In telephone interviews from jail, four of the men insisted that they had been
falsely accused and were victims of fratricidal infighting among the resistance
groups, not secret agents for Saddam.

The Iraqis in custody in California include defectors from Iraq's army who
joined CIA-backed resistance groups. They fled their country with their families
after the secret operation collapsed in disaster last year.

Court records available do not give the specific basis for the charges against
the jailed men. Carole Florman, a Justice Department spokeswoman, s aid the
federal regulation allowing a political asylum claim to be denied on national
security grounds is "very vague and broadly constructed."

She said immigration officials have not denied the jailed men's requests for
asylum but referred them to immigration judges for review.

The resistance groups, the Iraqi National Accord and the Iraqi National
Congress, had major roles in a $ 20 million-a-year CIA operation to try to
undermine the Iraqi leadership. The clandestine effort began shortly after the
Persian Gulf War ended in 1991 and went on for five years, without success.

The two groups, along with the stateless Kurds of northern Iraq, were crippled
by rivalries and internal squabbles and suspicions that the resistance had been
penetrated by Iraqi intelligence.

On Aug. 31, the operation collapsed when Iraqi soldiers and secret police
stormed into the Kurdish areas of northern Iraq. The Iraqi forces seized control
of towns that had been protected by a U.S.-led security zone since the end of
the Gulf War and had served as bases for the resistance.

The Iraqis jailed in California were among a group of 600 men, women and
children who fled for their lives after the invasion.

LOAD-DATE: May 12, 1997

LANGUAGE: English

                  Copyright 1997 St. Louis Post-Dispatch, Inc.


                              210 of 457 DOCUMENTS

                       St. Louis Post-Dispatch (Missouri)

                 May 11, 1997, Sunday, EARLY FIVE STAR EDITION

U.S. JAILS IRAQIS WHO AIDED CIA AFTER WAR

BYLINE: New York Times News Service

SECTION: NEWS, Pg. 06A

LENGTH: 416 words

DATELINE: WASHINGTON


A group of Iraqis who worked for the CIA in a failed attempt to undermine Saddam
Hussein and were offered refuge by the United States now are in jail in
California, facing expulsion.

The proceedings against them are cloaked in secrecy. But court doc uments and
interviews show that at least 13 of the refugees stand accused by the
Immigration and Naturalization Service of being "a danger to the security of the
United States."

White House spokesman David Johnson estimated that 25 Iraqis were being held.

Government officials and lawyers for the accused said the charges stem from the
FBI's suspicions that some or all of the men might be Iraqi spies or potential
terrorists. The men are seeking political asylum in the United States. But they
could be deported, possibly to Iraq, if the accusations are upheld by
immigration judges.

In telephone interviews from jail, four of the men insisted that they had been
falsely accused and were victims of fratricidal infighting among the resistance
groups, not secret agents for Saddam.

The Iraqis in custody in California include defectors from Iraq's army who
joined CIA-backed resistance groups. They fled their country with their families
after the secret operation collapsed in disaster last year.

Court records available do not give the specific basis for the charges against
the jailed men. Carole Florman, a Justice Department spokeswoman, said the
federal regulation allowing a political asylum claim to be denied on national
security grounds is "very vague and broadly constructed."

She said immigration officials have not denied the jailed men's requests for
asylum but referred them to immigration judges for review.

The resistance groups, the Iraqi National Accord and the Iraqi National
Congress, had major roles in a $ 20 million-a-year CIA operation to try to
undermine the Iraqi leadership. The clandestine effort began shortly after the
Persian Gulf War ended in 1991 and went on for five years, without success.

The two groups, along with the stateless Kurds of northern Iraq, were crippled
by rivalries and internal squabbles and suspicions that the resistance had been
penetrated by Iraqi intelligence.

On Aug. 31, the operation collapsed when Iraqi soldiers and secret police
stormed into the Kurdish areas of northern Iraq. The Iraqi forces seized control
of towns that had been protected by a U.S.-led security zone since the end of
the Gulf War and had served as bases for the resistance.

LOAD-DATE: May 11, 1997

LANGUAGE: English

                  Copyright 1997 St. Louis Post-Dispatch, Inc.


                              211 of 457 DOCUMENTS

                       St. Louis Post-Dispatch (Missouri)

                May 14, 1997, Wednesday, FIVE STAR LIFT EDITION

BILL CALLS FOR REDESIGNING SOCIAL SECURITY CARDS

BYLINE: AP

SECTION: NEWS, Pg. 07A

LENGTH: 242 words

DATELINE: WASHINGTON


The federal government would have to redesign Social Security cards to make them
as tamper-resistant as U.S. passports or $ 100 bills under immigration
legislation being studied by the House.

A more secure design would reduce the number of illegal aliens who find jobs in
the United States with the help of counterfeit documents, the bill's author,
Rep. Bill McCollum, R-Fla., told a House panel Tuesday.

"It is simply unacceptable that one document that is most commonly used to prove
eligibility for employment is nothing more than a flimsy paper document that is
easily counterfeited," McCollum told the House Judiciary immigration
subcommittee.

McCollum said the improved card wouldn't be used as a national identification
card, an idea that has been passionately denounced by those concerned with
privacy and the amount of personal information compiled on government computers.

"There are no fingerprints, retina scans or magnetic strips involved," he said.

"In fact, (the bill) specifies that new cards cannot be required to be carried
upon one's person and does not authorize the establishment of any new databases.

"By making the card more tamper-resistant, the government gains no new
information, and the card would be used no differently than it is now," he said.

McCollum's bill has drawn fire from the Social Security Administration, however,
which said the card never was intended to serve as identification.

LOAD-DATE: May 14, 1997

LANGUAGE: English

                  Copyright 1997 St. Louis Post-Dispatch, Inc.


                              212 of 457 DOCUMENTS

                       St. Louis Post-Dispatch (Missouri)

                 May 24, 1997, Saturday, FIVE STAR LIFT EDITION

BRIEFS

BYLINE: AP, Reuters

SECTION: NEWS, Pg. 21, BRIEFS/NATION/WORLD COLUMN

LENGTH: 1686 words



IMMIGRATION SERVICE

5,000 May Lose Citizenship; Sloppy Investigations Cited

The Immigration and Naturalization Service will try to revoke the citizenship of
nearly 5,000 people who were naturalized owing to sloppy investigations by the
service. They are among the total of 180,000 foreigners granted citizenship last
year without complete criminal background checks. An audit released to Congress
on Friday found that 16,400 of the new citizens had at least one felony arrest.

Arrest or conviction, even for a felony, is not an automatic bar to citizenship.
But the audit found 4,946 cases in which a criminal arrest should have resulted
in a denial of citizenship or where the applicant misrepresented his or her
criminal history.

Administration officials stressed that the improper naturalizations represent a
tiny fraction of the 1 million people granted citizenship last year. But Rep.
Lamar Smith, R-Texas., chairman of the subcommittee on immigration, replied,
"One convicted felon who is given the honor of becoming a citizen is one too
many."

AP

WHITEWATER

Hubbell's Calls From Jail Turned Over To Prosecutor Phone calls placed by
Whitewater figure and former associate attorney general Webster Hubbell while he
was in prison were taped and turned over to the office of the Whitewater special
prosecutor, sources close to the investigation said Friday.

Voices on the dozens of taped calls include those of then-Clinton administration
official Mickey Kantor and current or former White House aides Marcia Scott,
John Emerson and David Watkins, the sources said.

Investigators are focusing on a reported $ 400,000 to $ 500,000 paid to Hubbell
by friends and supporters of President Bill and Hillary Rodham Clinton before he
went to prison to determine whether the money was designed to buy his silence.

Hubbell pleaded guilty to bilking his law firm in Little Rock, Ark., and served
a prison term for tax evasion and mail fraud beginning in August 1995. He was
released in February.

AP

SOCIAL SECURITY

Clinton Fills Top Post With Budget Staff Member

President Bill Clinton has named Kenneth S. Apfel, a member of the White House
budget staff, to head the Social Security Administration.

Apfel, 48, has served since 1995 as director of human resources in the Office of
Management and Budget.

The top office at the Social Security Administration has been vacant since Jan.
31, when Shirley S. Chater resigned, under fire from Congress for insisting that
the federal employee retirement plan faced no problems.

Members of the Congress are beneficiarie of the program.

Apfel was a member of the staff of former Sen. Bill Bradley, D-N.J., from 1982
to 1993. He was Bradley's top aide on social policy and later his legislative
director.

About 48 million people - approximately one of every five Americans - receives
some form of Social Security benefit, and the number is rising.

By 2013, the agency projects it will have to start paying out more to retirees
each year than it brings in payroll taxes.

AP

TEXAS

Crash Of Marine Helicopter Kills Both Crew Members

A factory-fresh Marine Corps Supercobra AH-1W attack helicopter crashed and
burned Friday in a wooded area in Hutchins, Texas, a suburb of Dallas, killing
both crew members.

The craft had been picked up less than an hour earlier at the Bell Helicopter
plant in Fort Worth and was being flown to a base in North CArolina. Neither
crew member was identified.

A witness on the ground said the pilot appeared to be struggling to keep the
craft aloft in order to avoid hitting inhabited areas.

AP

AMERICAN INDIANS

Crowd Pushes For Memorial To Honor Veterans Of Wars

The throb of drums and ceremonial chants sounded over the Mall in Washington
Friday as American Indians began a drive for a memorial to Indians who fought in
this nation's wars.

The monument would be part of the Museum of the American Indian to be built on
the site next to the Air and Space Museum.

The new building, not yet designed, is tentatively due to open in 2002.

AP

NEWSPAPER LIBEL CASE

Judgment Against Paper Reduced By $ 200 Million

A federal judge in Houston threw out $ 200 million in punitive damages Friday
that were part of a $ 222.7 million libel judgment against The Wall Street
Journal.

The paper had been sued by MMAR Group Inc., a Houston investment firm, for a
1993 article about the firm. MMAR blamed the article, which it alleged was
false, for the firm's desmise.

Journal lawyers argued that the article was substantially correct and that MMAR
collapsed for other reasons.

AP

STATE DEPARTMENT

Albright Appoints Adviser As Agency's Top Spokesman Secretary of State Madeleine
Albright on Friday named James P. Rubin to replace Nicholas Burns as the State
Department's top spokesman.

Rubin was Albright's senior adviser when she was ambassador to the United
Nations.

AP

FLORIDA

Chiles Says Electric Chair Likely To Get Court's OK

Florida's Gov. Lawton Chiles said Friday he was confident the state's
74-year-old electric chair would pass an investigation ordered by the state
supreme court, and be back in service by September. The chair has malfunctioned
twice in the last seven years, most recently when it caused flames to shoot out
from the head of a man being executed.

The court scheduled a hearing for Sept. 15 to determine whether use of the chair
constitutes cruel and unusual punishment, which is prohibited by the
Constitution.

The state high court's order Thursday postponed the execution of Leo Alexander
Jones for the 1981 killing of a Jacksonville policeman. The court is also
expected to delay the execution of George Stano, who has confessed to killing 41
people and has been condemned to death for the murder of a hitchhiker.

Reuters

JUSTICE DEPARTMENT

Judge Asked To Dismiss Lawsuit In FBI Files Case

The Justice Department asked U.S. District Judge Royce C. Lamberth on Friday to
dismiss the suit filed on behalf of people who worked in the White House during
President George Bush's administration whose FBI background files were obtained
by the Clinton White House.

Justice Department lawyer James Gilligan argued that the White House could not
be sued because it was not covered by the Privacy Act. He argued that the FBI,
also named in the suit, could not be held liable because it acted according to
its normal procedures when it forwarded the files to the White House.

AP

WORLD

IRAN

Moderate Cleric Trouncing Hard-liner In Early Returns

Preliminary results today from Iran's presidential election showed a landslide
for a moderate cleric whose triumph would mean a defeat for hard-line mullahs
who have ruled since the Islamic revolution of 1979.

State-run Tehran radio said Mohammad Khatami, who has called for an easing of
the clergy's absolute hold on power, had received more than 6 million of the
nearly 9 million votes counted from Friday's election.

His main challenger, the archconservative Parliament Speaker Ali Akbar
Nateq-Nouri, received only about 2.5 million, the radio said.

The radio said that about one-third of the 31,400 polling stations had been
counted. Final results are expected early Sunday.

If no candidate wins a majority, a runoff between the top two vote-getters will
be held a week later.

The winner will replace President Hashemi Rafsanjani, who by law must step down
in August after two terms.

AP

(The Three Star carried this version of the above story:)

Record Numbers Turn Out For Election

In an election seen as a contest between religious rigidity and liberalism,
Iranians turned out in record numbers Friday to cast their votes for new
president.

The fron-runners were the ardent conservative Ali Akbar Nateq-Nouri and the more
moderate Mohammad Khatami.  The winner will replace President Hashemi
Rafsanijani, who by law must step down in August at the end of his second term.

Khatami has also gained popularity among the young.

"He should lift the ban on satellite dishes and restrictions on access to many
sites on the Internet.   Both of these are realities of modern life," said
22-year-old computer operator Mehrdad Yavarpanah.

(End of Three Star text

NORTHERN IRELAND

Sinn Fein Makes 5 Pct. Gain In Local Council Elections

Sinn Fein, the political party struggling to end British rule in Northern
Ireland, made a 5 percent gain in local elections Friday and increased the
number of seats it holds on the Belfast City Council to 13, the same number held
by the Ulster Unionist Party.

The main losers were Sinn Fein's ideological opposites, Protestant Unionists,
who want the disputed province to remain part of the United Kingdom and who have
held control over key city councils for decades.

"This marks a new era for this city of Belfast," said Sinn Fein President Gerry
Adams. "We will end an era of domination and bring in a new, inclusive era."

Reuters

MOUNT EVEREST

Grandson Of Sherpa Guide For Hillary Reaches Summit

In rare sunny, windless weather, 22 climbers reached the summit of Mount Everest
Friday. One of them was Tashi Wangchuk Norgay Tenzing, grandson of Tenzing
Norgay, the Nepalese sherpa who accompanied Sir Edmund Hillary on the first
conquest of the 29,028-foot peak in 1953.

Seven climbers have died so far this year. Last year, 64 people reached the
summit, but 12 climbers died trying.

AP

ISRAEL

Temporary Freeze Offered In Housing Program Dispute

Israel offered a temporary freeze on construction of a disputed housing project
in East Jerusalem Friday in an attempt to revive stalled Middle East peace
talks.

The Har Homa housing complex is being built by Israel for Jews on captured Arab
land in Jerusalem where the Palestinians hope to establish their capital. Peace
talks hit an impasse after Israel broke ground for the 6,500-unit project in
March. Israel has repeatedly refused to back down on the construction.

AP

LOAD-DATE: May 25, 1997

LANGUAGE: English

GRAPHIC:  (1) Photo by AP - Breaching The Citadel Nancy Mace (left) and Petra
Lovetinska talk to reporters Friday about their first year at The Citadel, where
they were the first female cadets to complete a full year. The college has
accepted 27 more women for the school year that starts in August.
 (2) (The following photo appeared in the Three Star edition only:) Photo by AP
- Celebrating A Union President Alexander Lukashenko of Belarus (left) and
Russian President Boris Yeltsin toast their accord Friday after signing a union
charter aimed at coordinating the foreign policies and military affairs of the
two former Soviet republics.

                  Copyright 1997 St. Louis Post-Dispatch, Inc.


                              213 of 457 DOCUMENTS

                       St. Louis Post-Dispatch (Missouri)

                    June 8, 1997, Sunday, THREE STAR EDITION

AMERICAN JURY CLEARS CUBAN OF HIJACKING

BYLINE: AP

SECTION: NEWS, Pg. 04A

LENGTH: 267 words

DATELINE: WASHINGTON


The State Department expressed disappointment when a federal jury acquitted a
Cuban charged with hijacking a Cuban airliner a year ago.

The plane, with 16 passengers aboard, was hijacked shortly after taking off from
Santiago, Cuba, by Jose Fernandez Pupo, a lieutenant colonel in Cuba's national
police force.

He ordered the pilot to fly the plane to the U.S. Naval Base in Guantanamo Bay,
where he asked for political asylum.

During the hijacking, he fired a weapon to convince the pilot that he wa s
serious. No one was hurt in the hijacking.

In expressing disappointment with the verdict, State Department spokesman
Nicholas Burns said Friday, "Air piracy is a crime, which the U.S. government
will continue to fight and continue to prosecute under U nited States law."

Fernandez Pupo remains in detention while the Immigration and Naturalization
Service decides on his immigration status. Cuban authorities had demanded that
he be returned to Cuba.

The Cuban-American National Foundation, an anti-communist group based in Miami,
has appealed to the United States not to return Fernandez Pupo to Cuba, to "a de
facto death sentence."

Teresa Alva, Fernandez Pupo's attorney, said he had hijacked the aircraft
because "he sincerely believed his life was in danger, that he was about to be
arrested."

A turning point in the trial, she said, took place when the judge instructed the
jury that the government must prove beyond reasonable doubt that the hijacker
did not act under duress.

"The government presented no evidence that he did not act under duress," she
said.

LOAD-DATE: June 9, 1997

LANGUAGE: English

                  Copyright 1997 St. Louis Post-Dispatch, Inc.


                              214 of 457 DOCUMENTS

                       St. Louis Post-Dispatch (Missouri)

                 July 25, 1997, Friday, FIVE STAR LIFT EDITION

DEPORTATION EFFORT IS ABUSE OF GOVERNMENT POWER

BYLINE: Robyn E. Blumner; St. Petersburg Times<

SECTION: EDITORIAL, Pg. 07B, COMMENTARY COLUMN

LENGTH: 1079 words


The LA 8 might sound like the newest rage in musical groups. But their tale of
woe is anything but melodic. For nearly 10 years our government has battled in
court to deport these seven Palestinians and one Kenyan for their political
views and activities. Their story is an object lesson in government power run
amok.

If there was ever a poster child for the continued need for an independent
judiciary, the LA 8 are it.

In 1987, the Immigration and Naturalization Service arrested the group in
southern California, at gunpoint, for the purpose of deporting them as
subversives. Although not charged criminally, they were held without bond in a
maximum-security prison for three weeks and later released pending trial by an
immigration judge. Two of the Palestinian men were permanent legal residents, or
green-card holders. The other six, including the Kenyan woman, entered the
country on temporary visas.

Initially, the eight were accused of supporting communism, which a McCarthy-era
immigration law called the McCarren-Walter Immigration Act prohibited. The INS
claimed they were members of the Popular Front for the Liberation of Palestine,
the Marxist arm of the Palestine Liberation Organization. The eight, all
Palestinian nationalists, were suspected of distributing literature, organizing
rallies, recruiting members and raising money for the Front. The INS said it has
proof of their association, based on secret and classified information the
accused could not see or contest.

In 1989, a federal court judge ruled the McCarren-Walter Act unconstitutional
and, in 1991, Congress repealed the law. But the government wasn't finished with
the LA 8 - not by a long shot. This was merely Round One.

In the second round, the INS claimed the eight should be deported b ecause they
were associated with the PLO, an organization that has taken responsibility for
numerous acts of terrorism, including the hijacking of an Air France plane to
Uganda. They could be deported, the government said, for supporting even the
humanitarian efforts of such a terrorist organization - even though no citizen
could be punished for such association.

The agency was again rebuffed by the courts. The same California judge who
voided the McCarren-Walter Act, U.S. District Judge Stephen Wilson, ruled in
early 1994 that the LA 8 were unfairly targeted for persecution, and he said the
INS could not use confidential information as the basis for deportation.

The court agreed that the government had selected them for prosecution over
other similarly situated aliens, such as those associated with the Nicaraguan
Contras. The eight were singled out, suggested the court, because our government
didn't like their politics.

The judge also made another important point. He said the First Amendment can't
be split into citizen and non-citizen categories; every person on American soil
holds the same free-speech and association rights.

With the government having lost two consecutive rounds, you would think the bout
was over. Nope. The government, with its deep pockets and wounded pride,
persisted in efforts to deport the eight. Never mind that by 1995 they had all
been living in the Los Angeles area for nearly two decades, and none had ever
been charged with a crime.

You might wonder how these immigrants could mount and sustain a decade-long
defense against the government's legal onslaught. They had help. Lawyers from
the American Civil Liberties Union of Southern California, the Center for
Constitutional Rights in New York and the National Lawyers Guild joined forces
to provide the legal muscle they needed, helping to level the playing field.

Even so, by Round Three, the government was not about to quit. It came out
packing a new punch, this one strengthened by two new acts of Congress.

In 1996, Congress passed the Anti-Terrorism and Effective Death Penalty Act,
which made it a crime for citizens and non-citizens alike to provide
humanitarian aid to any group designated by the secretary of state as a foreign
"terrorist" organization. Congress also passed a legislative power-grab known as
the Illegal Immigration Reform and Immigrant Responsibility Act, which stripped
the federal courts of any power to suspend the deportation proceedings of
political activists. Basically, the law said the INS had sole jurisdiction over
deportations until the process was over.

Judge Wilson again ruled for the LA 8. And just two weeks ago, the U.S. Court of
Appeals for the 9th Circuit in California agreed, evoking past court decisions
that had protected Communist Party members from prosecution. The appellate court
found that the First Amendment protects people who associate with a group even
if some of its goals are violent. It said the government cannot punish people
for supporting a cause unless it shows the individual specifically intended to
further the unlawful goals of the organization.

This means we cannot be prosecuted for assisting overseas groups with their
legitimate activities, such as supporting food distributions and hospitals run
by Sinn Fein, the political wing of the Irish Republican Army. It also means it
is likely that portions of the new anti-terrorist law are unconstitutional.

Similarly, Wilson and the appeals court rejected Immigration Act restrictions on
the ability of immigrants to immediately challenge the constitutionality of
deportation hearings. Said Wilson: "Review delayed is review denied."

As it stands today, it looks like the government is gearing up for Round Four.
David Cole, the attorney for the eight, says there are no signs the government
is going to end deportation efforts. No member of Congress has stepped into the
fray, either.

"What politician is going to stick his neck out and say drop a case against
alleged Palestinian terrorists," says Cole. "That is part of the reason the case
has taken so long."

This 10-year political ordeal underscores the very real danger of government
without limits. Because their ideology was anathema to our leaders, the LA 8
were treated as criminals and would have been ejected from this country had it
not been for a few generous lawyers, the independence of the federal judiciary
and the Constitution.

Their relentless court battle has accomplished one thing: It has made good law
that will help shield others from such abusive government actions in the future.
For this alone, we should put out the welcome mat - 10 years too late.

LOAD-DATE: July 28, 1997

LANGUAGE: English

                  Copyright 1997 St. Louis Post-Dispatch, Inc.


                              215 of 457 DOCUMENTS

                       St. Louis Post-Dispatch (Missouri)

                July 31, 1997, Thursday, FIVE STAR LIFT EDITION

8 IRAQIS IN CIA-BACKED GROUP JAILED AS 'SECURITY RISK';
MEN FACE DEPORTATION, DENY THEY EVER SPIED FOR SADDAM -

BYLINE: Michael Fleeman; Of The Associated Press

SECTION: NEWS, Pg. 03A

LENGTH: 734 words

DATELINE: LOS ANGELES


Adil Awadh has spent months behind bars as a "security risk" without being told
the evidence against him. Still, the 29-year-old doctor remains hopeful. For
this is not a jail in his Iraqi homeland.

This is America, the country that supported his group's efforts to topple Saddam
Hussein, that helped him flee invading Iraqi troops, that granted political
asylum to his wife and 3-year-old son - and that now wants to send him back to
Iraq, where he claims he would be executed as a traitor.

"I got the hope," Awadh said in an interview from an Immigration and
Naturalization Service jail. "Because I knew before I came to the United States
the most important thing that the United States is known for is its law, and
it's difficult for a person to be jailed without reason."

Awadh is among eight Iraqi members of CIA-backed resistance groups who were
evacuated to the United States last fall aboard U.S. military planes but who now
face deportation as a "national security risk." An administrative hearing before
an immigration judge resumes today.

Although U.S. officials won't disclose their evidence, the Iraqi refugees and
their attorneys believe the United States thinks the men are Saddam's spies - an
allegation they strongly deny.

"A spy? A spy for whom?" asked another jailed refugee, Ali Yasin Mohammed-Karim,
a radiologist. "Spying is not my business. It's impossible for me. You can ask
me anything about physics, chemistry and medicine - but spying? No."

The two doctors said their roles in the resistance were mostly limited to
providing medical care, such as treating CIA agents' migraine headaches.

Justice Department spokeswoman Carole Florman in Washington said the men were
denied asylum on the basis of information gathered by the FBI at the refugees'
stopover in Guam.

"We're not necessarily saying that they are a threat to national security," she
said. "During their interviews in Guam information was developed that raised the
possibility that they could present a threat."

She said she couldn't discuss the nature of the evidence, citing national
security.

But she noted the men represent just a fraction of the 6,000 people evacuated
from Iraq last year. With only a few exceptions, the refugees were granted
political asylum.

The eight men - many of them professionals, including doctors, journalists and
an airline pilot - were members of either the Iraqi National Congress or Iraqi
National Accord, opposition groups operating in the no-fly zone in northern Iraq
after the Persian Gulf War in 1991.

The London-based groups, composed mainly of Shiites and Kurds, received money
from the CIA, which had launched a reported $ 20 million effort to overthrow or
weaken Saddam. The opposition, however, was ineffective - hobbled by ethnic and
class rifts.

Last year, Saddam crushed the opposition. His forces killed some 100 members of
the Iraqi National Congress and forced hundreds of others to flee to the
mountains. The U.S. government later arranged to evacuate those people and
others working for American and international aid organizations to the United
States.

The men suspect the accusations against them grew out of the same divisions that
plagued the opposition groups in Iraq. But the men can't be sure, since the U.S.
government hasn't shown them its evidence, even during the hearings before the
Office of Immigration Review.

In hearing papers, the men's attorneys say the men were deceived by the U.S.
government. Believing American authorities would continue to support them, they
decided to go to the United States and declined to seek asylum in another
country such as Britain, France or Saudi Arabia.

"They face a complete loss of a third-country option and are thereby exposed to
forcible return to Iraq, forcible and permanent separation from family members
and probable execution by Iraqi officials," their lawyers wrote.

The U.S. government said the men were never given any guarantees of asylum, and,
even if they were, America isn't bound to keep them.

If the men are denied asylum by the immigration judge, the outcome their lawyers
say is most likely, the case can be appealed and eventually land in federal
court. If they are not, in fact, double agents, losing could prove fatal.

"I'll be executed, of course," Awadh said.

"I will go into the mountains," Karim said. "Somehow, I will survive."

LOAD-DATE: August 15, 1997

LANGUAGE: English

GRAPHIC: PHOTO, Photo by AP - Dr. Ali Yasin Mohammed-Karim, 55, a radiologist
from Iraq, during an interview July 24 at the Immigration Detention Center in
Los Angeles. He faces deportation to Iraq because the government considers him a
security risk. The CIA helped his group in Iraq.

                  Copyright 1997 St. Louis Post-Dispatch, Inc.


                              216 of 457 DOCUMENTS

                       St. Louis Post-Dispatch (Missouri)

                  August 24, 1997, Sunday, THREE STAR EDITION

'HARDSHIP' IN STORE FOR MANY IMMIGRANTS IN TEXAS, SOME SAY;
FOOD PANTRIES MAY BE STRAINED BY WELFARE REFORM

BYLINE: Cox News Service

SECTION: NEWS ANALYSIS, Pg. 07B

LENGTH: 648 words

DATELINE: WASHINGTON


By the end of this month, more than 100,000 legal immigrants in Texas will be
cut from the lists of people deemed too poor to afford all the food they need.

But Texas is the only state with a large immigrant population that is offering
no state aid to make up for the abrupt end of food stamps under the year-old
federal welfare reform.

"There's going to be some serious hardship here," said Jaime Case, executive
director of El Buen Samaritano ("The Good Samaritan") Episcopal Mission in
Austin. "The people we're most concerned about are the children."

Congress rewrote federal welfare rules last year in an effort to save tax
dollars and to encourage more self-reliance among people using public benefits.
For U.S. citizens who receive food stamps, the new rules imposed time limits and
work requirements; for most noncitizens, the food stamps ended, saving taxpayers
an estimated $ 3.7 billion over five years.

Food pantries at the Episcopal mission and elsewhere are preparing to provide
some of the groceries that immigrant families were once able to buy with food
stamps, but charities won't be able to fill the gap.

"While private charity has a role to play in providing for the needy, it cannot
make up for the loss of public funds," said John Swensen, e xecutive director of
the U.S. Catholic Conference's migration and refugee services.

In Travis County alone, more than 1,100 immigrants have already lost more than $
1 million worth of food stamps under the welfare reform that President Bill
Clinton signed a year ago Friday.

Nationwide, as many as 935,000 people who were receiving food stamps a year ago
will be off the public-aid rolls by the end of this month. The number could
approach 140,000 in Texas.

"There are a lot of families and a lot of older people who are going to end up
hungrier than they are now," said Bill Beardall, who works with migrant
farmworkers at Texas Rural Legal Aid.

Other states with large immigrant populations - Florida, New York and California
- are taking steps to help at least some of their resident immigrants who lose
food stamps. Florida plans to provide food aid to elderly immigrants who are in
the process of becoming U.S. citizens. The state of Washington is planning to
buy food stamps from the federal government for its immigrant residents.

In contrast, Texas is offering nothing to make up for the food stamps.  Other
parts of the reform that would have hurt legal immigrants were actively opposed
by Gov. George W. Bush.

'Going To Get Worse'

The managers of food banks and pantries are already sizing up the situation.
"Our agencies are telling us they're already seeing increased demand, and it's
going to get worse as Texas begins to feel the full brunt of welfare reform,"
said Judy Carter, executive director of the Capital Area Food Bank, which
supplies food pantries in 18 counties from Waco to San Marcos.

Under welfare reform, legal immigrants can still receive food stamps if they
have served in the U.S. armed services or can show that they have worked roughly
10 years in the United States. Otherwise, the lack of U.S. citizenship is enough
to disqualify an immigrant, no matter how needy.

"The people left without a nutritional safety net are lawful, permanent
residents of the United States," said David Beckmann, president of Bread for the
World, a Christian anti-hunger group based in Maryland. "They are being singled
out simply because they have not yet obtained full citizenship."

Groups that work with immigrants are scrambling to get their clients into the
citizenship process and to help them find the paperwork to prove their work
history in the United States. El Buen Samaritano sponsored a legal clinic in
Austin Thursday night, and Texas Rural Legal Aid is using fliers and radio ads
to get information about the options to immigrants along the border.

LOAD-DATE: August 25, 1997

LANGUAGE: English

                  Copyright 1997 St. Louis Post-Dispatch, Inc.


                              217 of 457 DOCUMENTS

                       St. Louis Post-Dispatch (Missouri)

                  August 31, 1997, Sunday, THREE STAR EDITION

U.S. GOVERNMENT IS KICKING PEOPLE OUT FASTER THAN EVER

BYLINE: David LaGesse; 1997, Dallas Morning News

SECTION: NEWS ANALYSIS, Pg. 05B

LENGTH: 455 words

DATELINE: WASHINGTON


DEPORTATIONS continued at a record pace around the nation in recent months,
boosted by added federal manpower and expanded holding centers.

Nationwide, the government forcibly removed 75,743 immigrants, a jump of 49
percent over the year before, officials reported Thursday.

In nine months ending June 30, the federal government deported more immigrants
than it did in the previous 12 months, said David Martin, general counsel of the
Immigration and Naturalization Service.

A new immigration law that makes it easier to stop immigrants at the border
helped boost the national figure by 10,000, he said.

The "expedited removals" provision, part of a broad immigration law enacted last
year, allows agents to stop immigrants who arrive at the border or at
international airports without a credible asylum claim. The change helped speed
the deportation of the 10,000 immigrants, Martin said.

Before the change, "a substantial number would have been deported, but through a
more time-consuming process," he said.

But expedited removals contributed little to the Dallas region of the INS, which
includes North Texas and Oklahoma, said assistant district director John
Ramirez.

Federal officials reported Thursday that they had deported 3,072 immigrants
between April and July from the district that includes Dallas - an increase of
148 percent over the same period last year.

And Dallas was one of five major immigrant regions reporting triple-digit
increases as federal officials pushed to deport criminal and undocumented
immigrants.

Added Resources

But most of the increase in Dallas resulted from added resources and new
programs, part of a nationwide effort to strengthen immigration enforcement.
Federal spending on the INS has more than doubled under President Bill Clinton's
administration with strong support in Congress.

The Dallas district also has benefited from an expanded program at the federal
penitentiary in Big Spring, Texas, where immigration judges conduct deportation
hearings for inmates whose convictions make them eligible for deportation.

The Dallas INS office also has more agents to work with jails in Dallas County
and elsewhere in identifying deportable inmates and has rented detention space
from area jails to hold deportable immigrants, officials said.

Nationwide, officials now expect to exceed their goal of forcibly removing
93,000 immigrants for the full fiscal year, which ends on Sept. 30. The Dallas
district office expects to deport 4,000 for the full year, Ramirez said.

The district can't hope for much increase after that without further budget and
manpower increases, he said. "That will put us at a level where it pretty much
will level off."

LOAD-DATE: September 3, 1997

LANGUAGE: English

                  Copyright 1997 St. Louis Post-Dispatch, Inc.


                              218 of 457 DOCUMENTS

                       St. Louis Post-Dispatch (Missouri)

               September 9, 1997, Tuesday, FIVE STAR LIFT EDITION

WHEN U.S. VIOLATES HUMAN RIGHTS

BYLINE: Anthony Lewis; Copyright New York Times News Service

SECTION: EDITORIAL, Pg. 07B, ANTHONY LEWIS COLUMN

LENGTH: 709 words

DATELINE: BOSTON


Suppose an American businesswoman flew to Shanghai to buy Chinese goods for a
New York department store. She had a Chinese visa, but at the Shanghai Airport
an official said she was trying to enter the country illegally. Without a
hearing, or even being told what the problem was and given a chance to explain,
she was strip-searched, handcuffed, held in jail and finally sent home.

A story like that would no doubt be seen in the United States as an example of
the arbitrary, lawless Chinese system. It could not happen in a law-bound
country like ours, we would say. But it has happened here.

Meng Li, an executive with a real-estate development company in Beijing, set out
for New York in June to buy plumbing fixtures. She had a business visa issued by
the U.S. Embassy in Beijing. She had used the same visa twice before, in 1996
and February 1997, entering the United States at Detroit.

This time the plane landed first in Anchorage, Alaska. There an agent of the
U.S. Immigration and Naturalization Service decided that she was trying to enter
the country by fraud or with improper documents. She was strip-searched,
handcuffed, put in an Anchorage jail and told she was barred from the United
States for five years.

Ordinarily we would not have heard about Li. Under the radical new immigration
law passed by Congress and signed by President Bill Clinton last year, an alien
found by an INS officer to be trying to enter by fraud is subject to "expedited
removal." She is sent home at once, without any administrative hearing or review
by a judge.

But because of language difficulties, it was thought that Li was applying for
political asylum. So she was held in jail; and an Anchorage lawyer, Margaret
Stock, took up her case.

Li was never told what was supposedly fraudulent about her attempted entry. But
Stock thinks the problem was that Li applied for another kind of U.S. visa last
winter, one that would allow her to work for an American company while here.
That application was first denied. Then in late May it was approved, Stock said,
but Li did not know that - and apparently neither did the INS agent in
Anchorage.

In any case, Stock said, it is legal for an alien coming here to use a valid
visa when another has been denied, so long as the alien uses it for the
designated purpose.

An Anchorage Daily News reporter, Rachel D'Oro, interviewed Li in jail after she
had been there two weeks. She cried as she spoke of how humiliated she felt. Not
only was she in prison, she said; her luggage had been seized, including $
32,000 for purchases in New York. Stock went to court and got an order letting
her use a bit of the money to buy toilet articles.

"People always think this country is one of the most pro-human-rights places,"
Li said. "But they were so inhumane."

Stock brought a suit challenging Li's exclusion. The government, in its answer,
did not disclose its reasons. It merely said the court had no power to hear the
case under the new immigration law, and the judge agreed. Stock appealed to the
9th U.S. Circuit Court of Appeals. But Li decided to go home.

"My client was in jail a month and the INS still wouldn't tell her what she did
wrong," Stock said. "That is very scary."

Li flew home on July 3. Just before leaving, she told The Daily News that she
had lost all confidence in the United States and from now on would take her
business elsewhere.

Is the case of Meng Li unique? Not in Anchorage. Stock filed an affidavit in
court in the Li case about five other Chinese she had seen in the Anchorage
jail. All were business people who had visas. They had been headed elsewhere in
the United States but were stopped at the Anchorage airport by INS agents and
told they were being sent back the next day and banned for five years.

Meng Li and the others did not understand what was happening to them. Do
Americans understand? Do they know that the new immigration law allows a single
INS agent to decide that someone who has a U.S. visa is a fraud, to send him
home without a hearing and ban him from this country for five years?

If Americans understood that, I believe they would demand changes in the
arbitrary new law. Or am I old-fashioned in believing that about my country?

LOAD-DATE: September 10, 1997

LANGUAGE: English

                  Copyright 1997 St. Louis Post-Dispatch, Inc.


                              219 of 457 DOCUMENTS

                       St. Louis Post-Dispatch (Missouri)

                October 6, 1997, Monday, FIVE STAR LIFT EDITION

PANEL FUELED FEAR OF IMMIGRANTS

BYLINE: Anthony Lewis; Copyright New York Times News Service

SECTION: EDITORIAL, Pg. 07B, ANTHONY LEWIS COLUMN

LENGTH: 690 words

DATELINE: BOSTON


The United States is famously a country of immigrants. It is also a country with
a strain of nativism going back at least to the Know-Nothing movement of the
1850s, anti-Catholic and anti-immigrant.

That ambivalence was plainly felt by the bipartisan Commission on Immigration
Reform, which over the past five years considered how to create a more rational
system. Its final report, submitted to Congress last week, threaded its way
between the two themes: the open door and fear of immigrants.

The report spoke in warm terms of what immigrants contribute to this country:
"to its vibrant and diverse communities, its vital intellectual and cultural
life, its job-creating entrepreneurship . . . " Yet it called for a sharp cut in
legal immigration starting five years from now - to 550,000 from the recent
annual figure of between 700,000 and 900,000.

The commission indicated concern about harsh effects of changes made by Congress
last year in immigration procedures, eliminating the right of appeal in many
cases. The report called for a new Agency for Immigration Review to assure
legality and accountability, subject to review in the federal courts. It urged
Congress to make clear that its changes in the rules were not meant to be
applied retroactively, as Attorney General Janet Reno has ordered.

But the report put major emphasis on enforcement against those who violate the
rules. Its most striking proposal was to abolish the Immigration and
Naturalization Service and split its functions. Enforcement would go to a new
agency in the Justice Department. The State Department would have the service
role: passing on applications for admission and naturalization.

That proposal drew cheers from the chairman of the House appropriations
subcommittee that handles INS funds, Harold Rogers, R-Ky. The INS, he said,
"cannot control our borders, process immigrants and safeguard U.S. citizenship.
We've seen tens of thousands of criminals granted the most precious benefit our
country has to offer: U.S. citizenship."

Rogers's statement that "tens of thousands of criminals" were granted
citizenship by the INS was, to put it politely, mistaken. And it indicates a
danger of the commission report.

In Fiscal 1996, the INS, urged by Congress to reduce a naturalization backlog,
granted citizenship to 1,049,000 applicants. It turned out later that 72,400 of
those had been flagged by the FBI when it examined their fingerprints. That led
to angry denunciations by Republican members of Congress.

The INS then had an audit done by Peat Marwick. Of the 72,400 cases, 16,400
showed an arrest for a felony of the kind that would make a person ineligible
for naturalization. Most of those proved to be only arrests, not convictions,
and hence would not bar naturalization. The audit, which is continuing, has so
far found 300 cases where a convicted person was improperly naturalized.

The Immigration Service did make mistakes. After a series of columns on INS
miscarriages of justice, I well know that it is not perfect. But by the
standards of performance in any large organization, public or private, 300
mistakes out of 1,049,000 cases is not bad. And 300 is not "tens of thousands."

The danger of the line taken by the Commission on Immigration Reform is that, if
inadvertently, it will encourage the worst in American attitudes on immigration.
It will encourage members of Congress who at heart do not like immigrants. It
will feed nativism.

Bashing immigrants turned out to be bad politics when the Republican Congress
tried it. But there is a subtler way to do it: charge that criminal aliens are
out of control, that the government is incapable of solving the problem, that
there must be a Draconian solution.

The commission, I fear, has given credence to that kind of argument. Splitting
enforcement and service in the immigration field would most likely lead to more
punitive enforcement, and to less responsive service from a State Department
unequipped for the job. Changing an organization chart will not solve what are
complex, ambivalent human challenges. Copyright New York Times News Service

LOAD-DATE: October 7, 1997

LANGUAGE: English

                  Copyright 1997 St. Louis Post-Dispatch, Inc.


                              220 of 457 DOCUMENTS

                       St. Louis Post-Dispatch (Missouri)

                October 19, 1997, Sunday, FIVE STAR LIFT EDITION

BRIEFS

BYLINE: From Post-Dispatch Wire Services

SECTION: NEWS, Pg. 15A, BRIEFS/NATION/WORLD COLUMN

LENGTH: 1752 words



NATION

IMMIGRATION SERVICE

Sponsors Will Have To Disclose Finances

As of mid-December, U.S. residents who want to bring foreign relatives to live
in the United States will have to lay their finances bare for Uncle Sam.

Last year's immigration law mandates that citizen or legal alien sponsors of
prospective immigrants have earnings exceeding 125 percent of federal poverty
levels.

The Immigration and Naturalization Service is publishing interim regulations
Monday, effective in 60 days, that require would-be sponsors to show up with
their three most recent income tax returns and paycheck stubs or other proof of
employment. h

The new rules affect people seeking to sponsor spouses, parents, children or
siblings. The family-based visa category normally encompasses about 565,000
applicants annually.

Early estimates suggest the 125-percent poverty threshold could reduce
family-based applications by as much as 40 percent. Current poverty levels mean
a would-be sponsor in a four-person household would have to make at least $
20,062 to bring in a relative.

Under the interim INS rules, sponsors must agree to reimburse federal or state
government for any welfare or similar need-based public benefits the sponsored
alien received.

(The FIVE STAR version of this brief ran as:)

IMMIGRATION SERVICE

Sponsors Will Have To Disclose Finances

As of mid-December, U.S. residents who want to bring foreign relatives to live
in the United States will have to disclose their finances to the Immigration and
Naturalization Service.

The new rules affect people seeking to sponsor spouses, parents, children or
siblings.

Last year's immigration law mandates that sponsors of prospective immigrants
have earnings 25 percent of federal poverty levels, which comes to $ 20,062 for
a four-person household.

Accordingly, the service is requiring would-be sponsors to disclose their three
most recent income tax returns and paycheck stubs or other proof of employment.

"This income requirement is surmountable but very complicated," an agency
spokesman said. "It's going to entail people having to come to the government
with a lot more information about who they are and what they're doing here."

Sponsors must also promise that the immigrants they sponsor will not accept
welfare and that the sponsor will reimburse the government if they do.

(end 5* version)

LOS ANGELES

Officer Kills Himself After Hit-And-Run

A Los Angeles police officer shot himself to death Friday as officers arrived to
question him about a hit-and-run accident that seriously injured a woman and her
10-month-old daughter.

Authorities tracked a Ford Bronco that was spotted leaving the scene of the
accident to the Acton, Calif., home of Officer Bryce Wicks, 54, a 28-year
veteran and an expert in fingerprinting. He shot himself to death as officers
arrived at the door.

On Tuesday, Juanita Mercado, 23, was wheeling her daughter, Leslie, in a
stroller across a street in the Sun Valley district when the Bronco clipped
Mercado, and the stroller became latched to the bumper. The vehicle dragged the
stroller a block until it became unhitched during a turn, spilling the baby into
the street.

The child, who suffered second- and third-degree burns on 30 percent of her
body, was awaiting plastic surgery. Mercado suffered a broken leg and collarbone
and remained in critical condition Saturday.

VIRGINIA

Government Plans Buffer For Waterways

The U.S. Department of Agriculture and state agencies will offer Maryland
farmers more than $ 250 million to leave 100,000 acres fallow and to create
buffers against runoff pollution contaminating the Chesapeake Bay and its
tributaries.

The project would provide a filter of trees and grasses along nearly 5,000 miles
of shore by 2002, enough to line nearly every stream in the parts of the bay
watershed now bordered by farmland. Farmers would be paid rent from the federal
government for up to 15 years, and the state would use its own funds to get
permanent easements on one-quarter of the targeted acreage as a way to restore
wetland nutrients and prevent pollutants from flowing into the bay.

The project, more than a year in planning, gathered momentum and backing last
summer when the marine microbe Pfiesteria piscicida killed thousands of fish and
was implicated in sickening more than two dozen people. The sudden increase in
the population of the organism is believed to be because of agricultural runoff.


(begin EARLY FIVE STAR text)

OKLAHOMA CITY BOMBING

Judge Wants Jury Selection To Go Faster

Richard Matsch, the presiding judge in the trial of accused Oklahoma City bomber
Terry Nichols, told lawyers for both sides Friday to speed up the jury selection
process. They have been at it for two weeks.

"I really don't see that it advances our process here to go over the very same
questions that I have already gone over," Matsch said. He ordered the attorneys
to reflect on his words over the weekend.

Eighty prospective jurors have been questioned so far, 54 of whom have been
eliminated. The trial is being held in federal court in Denver.

Nichols, 42, would face the death penalty if convicted of murder, conspiracy and
weapons-related counts in the April 19, 1995, bombing of the federal building in
Oklahoma City. The blast killed 168 and injured hundreds more.

(end E5* text)

***   ***   ***   ***

WORLD

ISRAEL

Storms Blamed In Deaths Of Five People

High winds and flash floods swept through Israel Friday, killing a hiker who was
swept from a cliff and four people whose cars were carried away by raging
waters.

The storms came as many Israelis were celebrating the eight-day Sukkot festival
by going camping and hiking.

A 24-year-old woman was swept away by a flash flood Friday evening while
rappelling down a cliff near the Dead Sea, police said. Her companions clung to
the cliff face all night and were rescued in the morning by an air force
helicopter.

Throughout the south, wadis - dry water courses - became raging torrents,
sweeping cars off the roads. Three people were killed and three injured Saturday
when their car was swept down a wadi near the Dead Sea.

Another man was killed when the car he was riding in was swept away near
Beersheba, the main city in the Negev desert. Two others were rescued. One was
injured.

EGYPT

2 Plead Guilty To Attack On Tourist Bus

From inside a steel cage erected in the court room, a former mental asylum
inmate and his brother pleaded guilty Saturday to killing nine German tourists
and an Egyptian bus driver in a fiery attack outside a Cairo museum.

Saber Abu el-Ulla, the former inmate, and his brother, Mahmoud, were charged
with premeditated murder in the Sept. 18 shooting and firebombing of a tourist
bus outside the Egyptian Museum. Twenty-six people were wounded in the attack.

Officials have denied the attack was linked to Islamic militants, who have
fought since 1992 to topple President Hosni Mubarak's government and replace it
with strict religious rule. Abu el-Ulla, however, has said he sympathizes with
the militants and would have joined them if he had had the contacts.

Notwithstanding the confessions, the trial before the three-judge panel must
continue. Under the Egyptian judicial system, convictions and sentences are
handed down at the same time, so further testimony is required for the judges to
determine the sentences.

Abu el-Ulla, a failed pop musician, recently left a mental asylum where he was
committed for killing two Americans and a Frenchman at a Cairo hotel in 1993. It
was not clear whether he escaped or was freed.

On Saturday, he told reporters he staged the attack because "Europe is preparing
a damaging war against Islam."

ALGERIA

Package Bomb Kills 1, Injures 3 In Capital

A bomb explosion Saturday in Algiers, the capital of strife-wracked Algeria,
killing one person and injuring three.

There was no claim of responsibility for the attack in the capital, whose
residents largely have been spared the attacks by Muslim insurgents fighting to
topple Algeria's military regime.

Witnesses said they saw a man place a package near a shopping center, then run.
The bomb went off two minutes later.

On Friday, a candidate for a pro-government party and his brother were killed
when a bomb exploded as he opened the door to his home, Algerian news media
reported.

Algeria's insurgency started when the army canceled 1992 legislative elections
that the Islamic Salvation Front was poised to win. Since then, the conflict has
killed about 75,000 people.

SAUDI ARABIA

Tents To Help Avoid Fire During Pilgrimage

Saudi Arabia will set up 40,000 air-conditioned, fiberglass tents to house
Muslim pilgrims outside Mecca in an effort to avoid another fire such as the one
that swept through a campground last spring killing at least 343 pilgrims.

By official Saudi count, the fire and stampede during the pilgrimage, or hajj,
last April killed 343 people and injured more than 1,500 at the city of Mina on
the plains outside Mecca, Islam's holiest city.

Aid workers and diplomats said the fire was apparently started by pilgrims
cooking in their tents.

(begin EARLY FIVE STAR text)

VIETNAM

Leader Says Country Must Improve Exports

Vietnamese Premier Phan Van Khai says the country must improve the quality and
quantity of its exports before it joins a regional trade bloc.

He told the ministry of industry the country should invest in profitable
companies producing goods for export, primarily in the farming sector.

Some Western economists have criticized Vietnam's investment policies, arguing
the country is investing in industries that will not be able to compete once
Vietnam joins the southeast Asian trading bloc.

Before the collapse of communism in Europe, most of Vietnam's exports went to
its Soviet-bloc allies.

SCOTLAND

India, Pakistan Leaders To Work On Accord

The prime ministers of India and Pakistan will meet in Edinburgh, Scotland,
Friday to try to negotiate a peace between their nations.

Indian Prime Minister Inder Kumar Gujral and his Pakistani counterpart Nawaz
Sharif will meet on the sidelines of the Commonwealth Heads of Government
meeting.

For 50 years, India and Pakistan have been fighting and arguing over Kashmir, a
mountain region bordering China and Afghanistan.

(end E5* text)

LOAD-DATE: October 19, 1997

LANGUAGE: English

                  Copyright 1997 St. Louis Post-Dispatch, Inc.


                              221 of 457 DOCUMENTS

                       St. Louis Post-Dispatch (Missouri)

              November 27, 1997, Thursday, FIVE STAR LIFT EDITION

GINGRICH, GOP ALLIES EMBRACE IMMIGRANTS

BYLINE: Jodi Wilogren; Los Angeles Times

SECTION: NEWS, Pg. A15

LENGTH: 1004 words

DATELINE: WASHINGTON


* The Republicans used to be known as anti-immigration, and a fierce debate is
now brewing within the party.

A year after the Republican-controlled Congress passed the harshest immigration
controls in a generation, the same legislative leaders have beaten a hasty
retreat, in both policy and political gestures.

The lawmakers recently restored welfare benefits to legal immigrants, eased the
threat of deportation for various refugees and paved the way for large numbers
of illegal immigrants to gain permanent residency.

It used to be that when the words "Republican" and "immigration" appeared in the
same sentence, "anti" was usually sandwiched in between. But last week, House
Speaker Newt Gingrich, R-Ga., found himself feted at a rally in Miami's Little
Havana. The occasion was 300 Nicaraguans and Cubans celebrating the blanket
amnesty from deportation for thousands of their countrymen that Gingrich helped
engineer in the waning days of the congressional session.

"Gracias, Newt," they chanted. Gingrich beamed behind a podium draped with a red
"Hispanics Love Newt" banner.

At a Capitol Hill breakfast of Latino Republicans a few weeks earlier, Gingrich
had connected his party's softening stance on immigration issues to a broader
big-tent message. "If we extend "un gran abrazo" (a big hug) to everyone," he
suggested, "they will extend it back to us and we will be a big American
family."

Stung by their worst-ever performance at the polls among Latinos in 1996,
Republicans spent much of this year in an internal tug-of-war over immigration.
They struggled to find a balance between strict control of the nation's borders
and compassionate support of families who, like millions before them, were drawn
to this country by the promise of America.

Increasingly, what's being heard are the moderate, pro-immigration voices of
Jack Kemp, Texas Gov. George W. Bush, Los Angeles Mayor Richard Riordan and a
pair of Cuban-American House members from Florida - the only two Republicans who
voted against the 1996 immigration reform. They are drowning out the
restrictionist drumbeat of California Republican Reps. Dana Rohrabacher, Elton
Gallegly and Brian Bilbray, as well as Gov. Pete Wilson.

Voters send a message

As the 1998 congressional election year dawns and the 2000 presidential campaign
looms beyond it, analysts and advocates on both sides of the immigration debate
wonder whether the GOP leadership has undergone a sea change on the issue or is
riding out a course correction.

A possible bellwether came last month with the stinging defeat of a Rohrabacher
motion. It had intended to block the extension of a measure allowing illegal
immigrants to get green cards without leaving the c ountry. Not only did 71
Republicans abandon Rohrabacher to help kill the motion, but Rep. Ileana
Ros-Lehtinen, R-Fla., the first Cuban-born member of Congress, led part of the
debate against it, offering the party starkly different leaders on the issue.

Eventually, Republicans helped craft a two-month grace period that allows
eligible illegal immigrants who apply by Jan. 14 to pay $ 1,000 and get their
visas here rather than having to return to their native lands.

Republicans pushing the party to assume a more pro-immigrant approach point to
compelling political evidence from the 1996 election in making their case.

In the presidential race, they note, Bob Dole's loss in Florida represented only
the second time the GOP failed to carry the state since 1968. Also in last
year's campaign, conservative commentator Patrick J. Buchanan's stridently
anti-immigrant campaign in the border state of Arizona landed him in third place
in the GOP primary there, an outcome that stemmed his momentum. Magazine magnate
Steve Forbes - a moderate on immigration - came in first.

In all-important California, an apparent backlash against 1994's Proposition 187
- which stripped benefits from immigrants - sparked strong support from Latinos
for Democratic candidates. It helped the party win back the California Assembly
and elect a Latina to Congress from Orange County, Rep. Loretta Sanchez.

In Congress, meanwhile, the signs of change are direct and subtle. Sen. Spencer
Abraham, R-Mich., a moderate on immigration policy, won the chairmanship of the
immigration subcommittee over Arizona's Jon Kyl, a restrictionist. Gingrich's
office has started to translate media releases into Spanish. And there's talk of
a pro-immigration GOP caucus forming.

A dissenting view

Writer Peter Brimelow argues that the GOP needs to toughen - not weaken - its
immigration policies. "If (Republicans) don't respond to their base, their base
will go off someplace else," said the British-American author of the 1995 book
"Alien Nation."

Motivating the recent shift among the leadership, he believes, is guilt over the
party's past civil rights record. "They're terrified to death of being called
racist," he said. "Anything that appears to be racist they just cannot handle.
They just run a mile from it."

Indeed, restrictionists Bilbray, Gallegly and Rep. Lamar Smith, R-Texas, who
chairs the House immigration subcommittee, all struggle to define the issue as
one of law enforcement, not race. They rush to express their support for legal
immigrants.

Gingrich, at Friday's rally, was walking hand-in-hand with two leaders of his
party's pro-immigration wing - Reps. Ros-Lehtinen and Lincoln Diaz-Balart, the
other Cuban-American representing the Miami area.

The scene could have been unsettling for many U.S. politicians - the audience
clapped mostly during the Spanish versions of speeches, missed jokes in English
and proudly sang the Nicaraguan anthem but seemed not to know the words to the
"Star Spangled Banner."

But Gingrich was clearly comfortable - and deeply moved. He called Miami, a city
of immigrants, "the heart of freedom for all of the Western hemisphere." Noting
his own German-English-Scottish-Irish background, he said: "All Americans come
from somewhere."

LOAD-DATE: November 27, 1997

LANGUAGE: English

GRAPHIC: PHOTO, Photo From THE WASHINGTON POST - From atop a high steel fence at
the border with California, Mexicans wave at others who have crossed into the
United States. Neither a higher fence nor more agents have stopped the flow of
immigrants.

                  Copyright 1997 St. Louis Post-Dispatch, Inc.


                              222 of 457 DOCUMENTS

                       St. Louis Post-Dispatch (Missouri)

              November 29, 1997, Saturday, FIVE STAR LIFT EDITION

CUBAN WINS IN CRIMINAL COURT, LOSES BEFORE IMMIGRATION JUDGE

BYLINE: The Associated Press

SECTION: NEWS, Pg. 23

LENGTH: 469 words

DATELINE: WASHINGTON


Getting acquitted of hijacking after he brandished pistols and forced a plane to
land at a U.S. military base was just the first hurdle. The tougher task for
Jose Leonardo Fernandez Pupo is convincing U.S. authorities he really did head a
secret anti-Castro organization and should be granted asylum.

Ever since the former Cuban military officer hijacked a commuter flight and
ordered it to the Guantanamo Naval Base last year, he has been on a legal roller
coaster. In May a jury in Washington acquitted him on grounds that his
alternative had been imminent arrest as a rebel leader.

Last week, his hopes for a new start in the United States were dashed when an
immigration judge found Fernandez Pupo's story "not credible" and denied his
request for political asylum.

The one concession that Immigration Judge John Bryant offered was to recommend
that the defendant not be returned to Cuba because of a probability that he
would be subjected to torture.

Fernandez Pupo's attorney, Wilfredo Allen of Miami, said deportation to a third
country is the most likely outcome, though he knew of no country willing to
accept the Cuban.

Meanwhile, Fernandez Pupo, 54, spends his days at a detention center near
Virginia Beach, Va. He has been in confinement since the day he landed at
Guantanamo.

Fernandez Pupo maintains that he led a subversive group, numbering up to 1,000
militants, known as "Fifth of August 2000."

He testified that he became aware on July 3, 1996, that the authorities were
closing in on him. If he had not acted quickly, he testified, he would have been
arrested and subjected to torture aimed at forcing him to identify others.

The federal jury that acquitted him in May found his testimony credible, but the
immigration judge did not. Citing the testimony of an FBI investigator, Bryant
said Fernandez Pupo never mentioned the group during three days of questioning
at the base. Official testimony also disclosed that the State Department had
never come across the group.

"This court finds it difficult to believe that an anti-Castro group with an
estimated 500 to 1,000 members can escape all recognition by American sources,"
Bryant wrote.

Bryant also found to be dubious Fernandez Pupo's claims that he was ordered by
the movement to divert the aircraft and that a series of actions over the years
had made clear his doubts about Cuba's system. Bryant cited documents suggesting
that the defendant was in "relatively good stead" with the Communist Party and
military not long before his flight from Cuba.

Also weighing heavily in the judge's decision was the trauma experienced by the
passengers aboard the hijacked flight.

Finally, Bryant said Fernandez Pupo could have made use of legal channels. He
noted that other retired military officers had done so.

LOAD-DATE: November 29, 1997

LANGUAGE: English

                  Copyright 1997 St. Louis Post-Dispatch, Inc.


                              223 of 457 DOCUMENTS

                       St. Louis Post-Dispatch (Missouri)

               August 15, 1998, Saturday, FIVE STAR LIFT EDITION

NATION/WORLD BRIEFS

BYLINE: From News Services

SECTION: NEWS, Pg. 26, NATION/WORLD BRIEFS COLUMN

LENGTH: 1585 words



NATION

WASHINGTON

All U.S. troops will receive vaccine against anthrax

The Pentagon will begin a program next week to inoculate all U.S. troops against
the deadly threat of anthrax. Troops in the Persian Gulf began getting the shots
earlier this year. The next round of vaccinations will be for men and women
serving in Southeast Asia and Korea, the Pentagon said Friday. All of the 2.4
million active and reserve forces will be inoculated by about 2004.

So far, 48,000 troops have been inoculated against anthrax, and seven have
reported adverse reactions, said Dr. Sue Bailey, assistant secretary of defense
for health affairs. Fifteen members of the armed forced refused the shots, she
added.

So far, two have been discharged and the others got lesser punishments, the
Pentagon said.

"We need to provide the commanders and chiefs a healthy, fit and ready force,"
Bailey said at a news conference. She added that the $ 130 million program to
counter the threat of an anthrax attack, which is almost always fatal, "is a
critical part of that program."

CALIFORNIA

Government offers bounty for arrests of smugglers

The U.S. government has put a $ 5,000 bounty on the head of so-called "coyotes"
- people who smuggle immigrants across the border from Mexico for money. The
Immigration and Naturalization Service said Friday in San Diego that it was
stepping up its efforts against human smuggling after the bodies of eight
Mexicans, believed abandoned without water, were found in the parched desert
east of San Diego on Wednesday.

"These callous smugglers are, indeed, public enemy No. 1," said Johnny Williams,
the INS' western regional director. "We will do all we can to bring these people
to justice."

Williams said the Border Patrol and police would continue investigating the
deaths and would offer a $ 5,000 reward for the arrest and conviction of
coyotes. The reward might even be increased, he said.

VIRGINIA

Mothers of switched girls received same baby pictures

A woman whose daughter was switched shortly after birth with another child said
the hospital had given both mothers the same baby pictures.

The woman, Paula Johnson, made the comment in Charlottesville, Va., in an
interview that was scheduled for airing last night on ABC's "20/20" program.
Johnson said she and the grandparents of the other child were startled by the
resemblance when they exchanged baby pictures.

DNA tests revealed last month that Johnson is not the biological mother of
3-year-old Callie Johnson.

The results of a DNA analysis of Rebecca Chittum's blood are expected soon.

A blood test indicated Callie was probably switched with Rebecca at the
University of Virginia Medical Center's maternity ward, where the two girls were
born in June 1995.

WASHINGTON

Donations swell coffers of House, Senate hopefuls

Political donations for this year's House and Senate races are running 8 percent
higher than the previous election cycle, according to a Federal Election
Commission report released Friday.

Senate and House candidates raised $ 484.3 million between Jan. 1, 1997, and
last June 30. That was $ 37 million more than was raised during the same period
in 1995-1996, the FEC said.

The increase came despite the fact that the number of candidates taking part in
House elections has declined. Also, there are fewer open House seats this year
than there were in 1996, the commission said. Spending increased by 3 percent.
In the Senate, Republicans raised $ 100 million during the 18-month period under
review, while Democrats pulled in $ 91 million. House GOP candidates raised $
155 million, compared with the Democrats' $ 136 million.

PUERTO RICO

Local legislators send bill about statehood to governor

Puerto Rican lawmakers sent a bill to Gov. Pedro Rossello on Friday that would
allow residents of the Spanish-speaking U.S. territory to decide in a referendum
whether they want to become the 51st U.S. state. The Puerto Rican Senate,
controlled by Rossello's pro-statehood New Progressive Party, approved the
measure late Thursday. The bill was approved by the island's House of
Representatives on Wednesday.

Rossello, who proposed the nonbinding referendum plan last month, is expected to
sign the measure. The outcome of the plebiscite planned for Dec. 13 would not be
binding without the U.S. Congress' approval. Although the U.S. Congress has not
passed legislation allowing a binding vote, Rossello called for a referendum
even without congressional authorization as a way of speeding the end of what he
called the island's existence as a "disenfranchised ghetto."

Early this year, the U.S. House passed by one vote legislation that would have
set a 10-year timetable for entry into the union if Puerto Rico's voters
approved statehood. The referendum Puerto Rico plans for Dec. 13 would offer
Puerto Rico's 3.8 million residents four choices: statehood, independence, the
current commonwealth status or "free association." The last choice would
continue the relationship with the United States but give Puerto Rico more power
over domestic and international affairs than it now has.

WORLD

CHINA

Flooding spreads, forces thousands more from homes

China's devastating floods spread to the northeast Friday, prompting thousands
of people to flee from their homes after a major levee protecting the country's
largest oil field gave way, officials said in Beijing.

More than 200,000 people were fighting flooding in Daqing, where the oil field
is situated, the Xinhua News Agency reported. About 20,000 people were evacuated
from near the levee's break, which expanded to 1,650 feet by midday, it said.

SURINAME

Military court convicts 14 of plot against government

Suriname's military court has convicted 14 men of plotting last October to
overthrow the government. Judge John von Niesewand gave the men sentences
ranging from one year to three and a half years in prison. He said Thursday in
Paramaribo that a 15th man would be sentenced next week.

According to prosecutors, security forces surprised and arrested the 15 men
plotting to seize power. During the 19-week trial, chief prosecutor John
Mohamedamin said intelligence agents had uncovered plans to steal weapons from
the marine and army barracks and kill the president, vice president, and head of
military intelligence after forcing them to record a television broadcast
conceding power.

ALGERIA

Assailants kill total of 16 in 3 attacks, guards say

Armed groups killed 16 people in three separate attacks in towns south of
Algiers, the security forces said in a statement Friday.

In the attacks late Thursday and early Friday, seven people were killed near
Khemis Miliana, about 60 miles southwest of the capital, and four others in
nearby Ain Defla.

In a third assault, five people were killed in Laghouat, about 250 miles south
of Algiers. Nobody claimed responsibility, but such killings are usually blamed
on Islamic militants waging an insurgency against the military-backed
government.

YUGOSLAVIA

Hard-liner will lead rebels; move threatens peace talks

A prominent hard-liner agreed Friday in Pristina to lead the Kosovo Liberation
Army's political wing, setting back U.S. efforts to unite ethnic Albanians
behind one leader for peace talks.

The province's leading Albanian politician, Ibrahim Rugova, announced Thursday
that he had formed a delegation to begin talks with Yugoslav President Slobodan
Milosevic on Kosovo's future.

On Friday, Rugova's chief rival, Adem Demaci, agreed to take the leadership of
the rebel group's political wing - in effect establishing himself as an
alternative leader of the province's majority Albanian community. The action
further splinters ethnic Albaniansd.

IRELAND

Prime minister thanks U.S. for help with peace process

Ireland's Prime Minister Bertie Ahern thanked U.S. House Speaker Newt Gingrich
on Friday for U.S. support for the Northern Irish peace process.

"One of the most satisfying aspects of the search for peace in Northern Ireland
has been the huge support and encouragement we have got from our friends abroad,
but none more so than from those in America," Ahern said in a statement.

Gingrich and a congressional delegation met Ahern for lunch in Limerick in the
southwest of Ireland as part of his eight-day tour of the republic and Northern
Ireland. Ahern recalled a St. Patrick's Day lunch hosted by Gingrich in
Washington on March 17 and attended by many of the British-ruled province's
feuding political parties. The lunch, Ahern said, served to impress on those in
attendance the importance of accommodation ahead of last Easter's deadline for a
settlement.

NICARAGUA

Baseball players escape from Cuba for second time

Cuban baseball players forcibly returned to their communist-ruled island after
escaping to the Bahamas earlier this year have fled Cuba again, this time to
Nicaragua. Officials in Managua confirmed on Friday a group of Cubans had
arrived in Nicaragua and were meeting with Nicaraguan immigration and foreign
relations officials.

Foreign Ministry spokesman Cesar Ubeda was unable to say how many Cubans were in
the group or to provide details of their journey.

Representatives of the Cuban American National Foundation, which first announced
the defection earlier Friday, accompanied the refugees but would not speak to
reporters in Managua.

LOAD-DATE: August 15, 1998

LANGUAGE: English

GRAPHIC: PHOTO Photo by the Associated Press - Soldiers pass sandbags to
reinforce the Nenjiang River dike in northeast China's Jilin province on Friday.
More than 2,000 people have been killed and millions left homeless in China's
worst floods in 44 years.

                  Copyright 1998 St. Louis Post-Dispatch, Inc.


                              224 of 457 DOCUMENTS

                       St. Louis Post-Dispatch (Missouri)

              December 19, 1998, Saturday, FIVE STAR LIFT EDITION

8 CUBANS DIE AS BOAT CAPSIZES OFF COAST OF FLORIDA

BYLINE: The Associated Press

SECTION: NEWS, Pg. 29

LENGTH: 233 words

DATELINE: MIAMI BEACH, FLA.


A boat carrying Cubans capsized in the choppy Atlantic, killing eight people and
leaving four missing Friday in what investigators said appeared to be the
deadliest immigrant-smuggling attempt ever off the Florida coast.

The 30-foot boat went down with at least 21 people aboard late Thursday off
Elliott Key, about 30 miles from Miami, in waves up to 6 feet.

A freighter rescued nine people, including at least two children. The survivors
hung on to the overturned vessel for about 10 hours after the a ccident late
Thursday, said Coast Guard Petty Officer Scott Carr.

The Coast Guard pulled eight bodies from the water Friday and continued to
search for the missing.

The boat was registered in Florida, meaning it may have been operated by
smugglers who charged the Cubans to take them to the United States, Carr said.
Two of the survivors were believed to be smugglers.

"We have no record of any smuggling episode with a higher fatality rate" in
waters stretching from Key West to the Carolinas, said Daniel Geoghegan, an
assistant chief with the Border Patrol.

As of Dec. 2, nearly 930 Cuban refugees were rescued off South Florida. Those
plucked from the water are routinely returned to Cuba, which is about 90 miles
from Key West, the southernmost island in the Florida Keys.

Four times as many Cubans were smuggled into the United States in 1998 as in the
year before.

LOAD-DATE: July 5, 1999

LANGUAGE: English

                  Copyright 1998 St. Louis Post-Dispatch, Inc.


                              225 of 457 DOCUMENTS

                       St. Louis Post-Dispatch (Missouri)

                  June 29, 2000, Thursday, THREE STAR EDITION

WORLD

BYLINE: From News Services

SECTION: NEWS, Pg. A10

LENGTH: 620 words



EUROPE

RUSSIA

Chechen rebels force soldiers to pull back

Russian soldiers pulled back from a battle against a large group of rebels in
Chechnya on Wednesday after two days of close combat in which 12 Russians were
killed and 16 others were wounded, military officials said.

The fighting began Monday when Russian Interior Ministry troops approached the
town of Serzhen Yurt, southeast of the capital of Grozny, to conduct document
checks. They ran into a band of rebel fighters in nearby woods, the military
said.

Two days of fighting in the forest ensued before troops pulled back Wednesday to
let artillery and fighter jets attack the area, officials said.

NETHERLANDS

Police arrest five men in Chinese immigrant case

Dutch police said Wednesday that they have arrested an additional five men and
are seeking one other who allegedly were part of a ring that tried to smuggle 58
Chinese immigrants into Britain inside a sealed truck, where they suffocated.

Dutch police claimed "remarkable progress" in their investigation, saying they
had traced the rented warehouse where the immigrants were put into the large
truck for the ill-fated ferry trip across the English Channel.

The discovery of the 58 corpses 10 days ago at the English port of Dover threw
light on illicit trafficking of people, mostly from Asia to western Europe,
which United Nations officials described as the world's fastest growing
international crime. Two migrants survived the journey.

VATICAN CITY

Pope condemns religious fighting in Indonesia

Pope John Paul II condemned Muslims for attacking Christians in Indonesia's
Maluku islands, as bloody sectarian fighting raged on there Wednesday despite
the declaration of a state of emergency.

"You cannot kill and destroy in the name of religion," the pope told his general
audience Wednesday in St. Peter's Square at the Vatican.

John Paul called for peace and urged the Indonesian government to do more to end
the cycle of violence, which has killed nearly 3,000 people of both faiths in
the past 18 months.

SOUTH AMERICA

PERU

Group seeks reforms to fortify democracy

A top-level delegation from the Organization of American States met Wednesday
with President Alberto Fujimori to push for reforms to strengthen Peru's damaged
democracy.

The mission also planned to meet with opposition leader Alejandro Toledo, who
boycotted the May 28 presidential runoff, charging that Fujimori planned to rig
the outcome. The OAS refused to monitor the ballot, saying the election was "far
from what could be considered free or fair."

In a statement Wednesday, Peter Boehm, Canada's ambassador to the OAS, said the
mission would seek reforms in the electoral process and the courts as well as a
commitment from the government "to strengthen press freedom."

NORTH AMERICA

CANADA

Hearing for suspected terrorist is postponed

An extradition hearing for an Algerian man suspected by the United States of
having links to an alleged terrorist plot was postponed Wednesday, the second
delay in two weeks.

The scheduled hearing Wednesday for Mokhtar Haouari, 31, was moved to July 17 to
give the sides more time to prepare, said Ronald Schacter, who is representing
the U.S. government in the case.

Haouari faces seven U.S. charges in connection with an alleged plot by Ahmed
Ressam, who is also Algerian, to smuggle explosives across the border from
Canada. U.S. authorities believe Ressam was involved in plans to bomb millennial
celebrations in the United States. Ressam was arrested in December at Port
Angeles, Wash., after bomb-making materials were found in the trunk of the car
he was driving.

LOAD-DATE: June 30, 2000

LANGUAGE: English

TYPE: World Briefs Column

                  Copyright 2000 St. Louis Post-Dispatch, Inc.


                              226 of 457 DOCUMENTS

                       St. Louis Post-Dispatch (Missouri)

                   January 4, 1999, Monday, FIVE STAR EDITION

SEMINAR SET ON RULES ABOUT FOREIGN WORKERS

BYLINE: Compiled By; William Flannery

SECTION: BUSINESS PLUS, Pg. 18, SMALL BUSINESS BRIEFING COLUMN

LENGTH: 349 words


The rules on employing foreigners are changing, and a local law firm is holding
a seminar to help employers learn about the changes.

The seminar, sponsored by Blumenfeld Kaplan & Sandweiss P.C., will be held from
4 to 5:30 p.m. on Jan. 13 at the Junior League of St. Louis headquarters, 10435
Clayton Road. Topics include:

* Changes in the H-1B non-immigrant visa category.

* Prohibitions against export of technology due to the employment of foreign
nationals.

* How to avoid legal action over employing foreign nationals.

The program is free, but it is by invitation only. To reserve a seat, call Linda
Marshall at (314) 863-0800 no later than Jan. 11.

Chamber holds day at capital

The Missouri Chamber of Commerce will hold its eighth annual "Day At The
Capital" on Wednesday, Feb. 17.

The all-day event in Jefferson City will include meetings with Missouri
legislators, grass-roots lobbying and a seminar on Missouri's business c limate.


For more information, call the Chamber at (573) 634-3511.

SBA office sets free loan briefing

The St. Louis regional office of the U.S. Small Business Administration will
hold a free briefing to explain the SBA's loan programs.

The briefing is Tuesday, Jan. 12, from 9:30 to 11 p.m. at the SBA's offices, 815
Olive Street downtown.

Registration is required. To register or get more information, call (314)
539-6600 ext. 227.

State department wins award

The Missouri Department of Economic Development has received a Vision 2000 Award
for its Capital Tax Credit Program.

This program is targeted at new and growing Missouri small businesses. Investors
in firms that take part in the program can get a state income tax credit equal
to 40 percent of their investment. The credit rises to 60 percent if the
business is in a distressed area.

Institute has new Web site

The American Success Institute, a non-profit business education organization,
has a new Web site: http://www.success.org

The institute and its site emphasize achieving business success through
self-reliance.

LOAD-DATE: January 4, 1999

LANGUAGE: English

                  Copyright 1999 St. Louis Post-Dispatch, Inc.


                              227 of 457 DOCUMENTS

                       St. Louis Post-Dispatch (Missouri)

                 April 9, 2000, Sunday, FIVE STAR LIFT EDITION

IMPORTING BRAIN POWER

SECTION: EDITORIAL, Pg. B2

LENGTH: 508 words



TECHNOLOGY JOBS

HOUSE MINORITY LEADER Richard A. Gephardt and others in favor of raising visa
caps for technically skilled workers called H-1B visas are the targets of an ad
campaign that not only twists the truth but endangers its own cause. Playing to
the worst of the nation's anti-immigrant sentiment, ads such as one that ran in
last week's Post-Dispatch declared, "Urgent! American Jobs Are in Peril!" and
"Stop Congressman Gephardt from giving hundreds of thousands of high-tech jobs
to foreign workers."

Ad campaigns such as this one sponsored by the Coalition for the Future American
Worker would have Americans believe that our own workers are being turned away
in favor of foreigners willing to earn far less.

In fact, the reason visas must be increased is that high technology companies,
which are fueling the economy and keeping record numbers of Americans employed,
are in desperate need of workers. Our country simply has not adequately schooled
and trained people for these jobs.

At issue are various bills moving through Congress that almost certainly will
raise the number of H-1B visas to as many as 200,000 from the current 115,000.
The Computing Technology Industry Association says that some 269,000 positions
are unfilled, costing the United States $ 4.5 billion in lost productivity this
year. Unemployment for high-tech professionals ranges from 1.7 to 2.5 percent.
And the Immigration and Naturalization Service already has hit this year's limit
of applications. Without a change in the law, the cap starts getting lower next
year.

Ironically, one of the big losers when applications shut down is American
academia. Our major research universities, which have long imported the
brightest minds in the world, have a slower bureaucratic hiring process and are
now getting squeezed out by high tech companies. The European Union also has
begun fighting in earnest for highly trained workers, primarily from India. If
the United States wants to lose ground as a global leader, a quick way to do it
would be to turn away the world's brightest technicians and researchers and let
other nations scoop them up.

Critics of the H-1B bills do disservice to their own excellent point, that
Americans should be trained for these jobs. Mr. Gephardt supports a version of
the bill that requires corporations hiring H-1B workers to contribute to a
training and education fund. That fund should be generous, and the final bill
should also call for comprehensive data on how the visas are used, how many are
needed, how these workers are affecting wage levels and incidence of fraud.

That is a first step. The wealthiest, freest, most advanced nation in the world
does not commit the resources and energy necessary to make its children the
best-educated leaders of the future global economy. Citizens must speak up and
demand that all their lawmakers devote real money and serious effort to giving
every American child a top-notch education, especially in the science and
technology fields that hold such promise.

LOAD-DATE: April 9, 2000

LANGUAGE: English

                  Copyright 2000 St. Louis Post-Dispatch, Inc.


                              228 of 457 DOCUMENTS

                       St. Louis Post-Dispatch (Missouri)

                 June 12, 2000, Monday, FIVE STAR LIFT EDITION

MORE FOREIGN WORKERS ARE NEEDED TO FILL SKILL GAP

BYLINE: Brad Layton

SECTION: EDITORIAL, Pg. B7

LENGTH: 717 words



HIGH TECH

A new report from the Information Technology Association of America, based on a
survey of information technology managers at 700 U.S. companies, says American
firms will generate 1.6 million new information technology jobs this year. The
Midwest is projected to get 35 percent of these jobs. But in today's extremely
tight labor market, many of the positions may go unfilled.

Additionally, the Clinton administration has projected that "in the next five
years, high-tech and related employment will grow 'more than twice as fast as
employment in the economy as a whole,' " said Sen. Orrin Hatch, R-Utah, as he
introduced the American Competitiveness in the 21st Century Act earlier this
year.

Hatch's bill -- which has cleared the Senate Judiciary Committee and could be
brought to the floor for a vote soon -- increases the cap on H-1B visas to
195,000 for each of the next three years. The H1-B program allows for work visas
to be granted to highly skilled workers from other countries, with each approved
worker granted two three-year visas.

Hatch's bill also raises an additional $ 150 million over today's funding for
training American workers for high-tech jobs, bringing total training funds to $
375 million over three fiscal years.

Critics of this bill and similar legislation have expressed fears that Americans
will lose jobs to foreign workers willing to work for substandard wages. Under
H-1B regulations, however, foreign workers must be paid on the same scale as
American workers or the employer is in viola tion of the law. And penalties are
stiff if employers are caught.

Also, workers could find jobs elsewhere, as they are not required to stay with
the same firms that bring them to the United States.

In addition, hiring high-tech workers from other countries incurs costs beyond
those of hiring American workers. Immigration attorneys have to be paid.

HIRING managers have to spend valuable time completing paperwork to have the
visas processed, including obtaining vast amounts of very specific information
from foreign employees whom they wish to hire. To ensure that the workers will
be able to settle in personally, "hit the ground running" on projects and work
effectively with American colleagues, employers often must assist foreign
workers with a variety of cultural transition needs.

Employers can outsource many of these tasks to subcontractors that specialize in
recruiting high-tech workers from outside the United States. But then they have
to pay the subcontractors' fees. Either way, employers have no financial
incentive to use the foreign-worker option unless it's absolutely necessary --
and for many of the most high-level application-development positions, it is the
best available option. It can take several months to process a visa for a
foreign worker. However, despite the time required, critical, very high-skill
jobs can sometimes be filled more quickly by recruiting internationally than by
recruiting domestically.

Many other countries have large pools of workers who are knowledgeable of the
most in-demand, high-skill technologies, and/or who have degrees in computer
science and who are eager to work in the United States for a few years.

Critics of efforts to increase the cap on visas for high-tech workers also
sometimes say that many American computer workers who are out of work are having
trouble finding jobs. If they know these unemployed computer professionals
personally, we wish they would send them to us.

In 16 years of recruiting computer specialists for consulting projects and
permanent jobs, Bradford & Galt has never experienced a more challenging
information technology labor market.

In the Midwest, computer professionals with good work histories -- who have kept
their skill sets at all up-to-date with the needs of today's job market -- can
usually find new jobs with excellent compensation within a few days. Passage of
Hatch's bill will not harm American workers.

It will help them by providing additional training funds that can be used to
help educate young people for information technology careers and/or to train
unskilled workers for computer jobs.

In the meantime, America will be at less risk of decreased competitiveness
resulting from the high-tech labor shortage.

LOAD-DATE: June 12, 2000

LANGUAGE: English

TYPE: Commentary Column

                  Copyright 2000 St. Louis Post-Dispatch, Inc.


                              229 of 457 DOCUMENTS

                       St. Louis Post-Dispatch (Missouri)

              February 15, 1997, Saturday, FIVE STAR LIFT EDITION

SPORTS FIRMS JOIN CHILD-LABOR FIGHT

BYLINE: The Associated Press

SECTION: BUSINESS, Pg. 3

LENGTH: 279 words

DATELINE: ATLANTA


Nike, Reebok and several other sporting goods giants announced a campaign Friday
to stop the production of soccer balls by Pakistani children who work 10 hours a
day stitching them together for pennies.

Some of these same sporting goods companies have themselves been criticized over
conditions of foreign workers who produce their celebrity-endorsed shoes and
apparel. The World Federation of the Sports Goods Industry and the
American-based Sporting Goods Manufacturing Association pledged that major ball
makers will buy soccer balls produced in Pakistan only if they are not made by
children.

The project aims to phase in the reforms over 18 months and enforce them by
independent monitors. It also hopes to provide educational services to
youngsters who are thrown out of work.

Seventy-five percent of the world's $ 1 billion soccer ball industry is in
Pakistan. Child welfare organizations estimate that 7,000 to 10,000 Pakistani
children under 14 stitch balls in homes and small shops, receiving little pay
for working up to 10 hours a day.

Concern over child labor mounted after a spate of bad publicity revealed the
conditions of foreign workers who produce products for American consumers.
Celebrities such as Kathie Lee Gifford and Michael Jordan have been drawn into
the controversy.

Nike has been singled out by human rights groups that have accused the show
company of mistreating workers at its plants in Southeast Asia.

The company has denied the allegations and taken steps to combat child labor,
including plans to build 15 "stitching centers" over the next three years to
ensure that no children are involved in making balls.

LOAD-DATE: February 15, 1997

LANGUAGE: English

                  Copyright 1997 St. Louis Post-Dispatch, Inc.


                              230 of 457 DOCUMENTS

                       St. Louis Post-Dispatch (Missouri)

                  January 2, 1998, Friday, THREE STAR EDITION

PROGRAM THAT AIDED REFUGEES IS ABOLISHED;
CHURCH GROUP HELPED WITH CITIZENSHIP, ENGLISH

BYLINE: The Associated Press

SECTION: METRO, Pg. D9

LENGTH: 484 words

DATELINE: SPRINGFIELD, MO.


After more than 20 years, a program that helped immigrants adjust to life in the
United States has ended.

The Council of Churches of the Ozarks' Refugee Resettlement Program closed
Wednesday.

"It's really hard to end something," said the Rev. Dorsey Levell, executive
director of the council. But running the program was no longer financially
feasible, he said.

The end of the program means immigrants have one less place to receive help with
paperwork for citizenship and English as a second language classes.

Jan Wicks, who was director of the program for the past two years, is working
with others to find money to restart it as soon as possible.

Until then, people seeking assistance can continue to call the Council of
Churches, which will refer them to her, Wicks said.

For more than 20 years, the Refugee Resettlement Program helped families get
acclimated to life in the United States.

It began after the fall of Saigon in 1975.

Within days, planes of refugees from Southeast Asia began landing in Fort
Chaffee, Ark.

The board of the Council of Churches at the time asked Levell to go there to see
what the needs were.

The council began a partnership with Church World Service, a national ministry
that works in areas including refugee resettlement.

Individual churches sponsored families and paid to bring them to Springfield.
They also provided the refugees with emotional support as well as assistance
with financial needs, such as finding a place to live and buying a car, Levell
said.

One of the things the churches couldn't do themselves was provide English
classes for adults. So the council took on that service.

While the demand for some of the refugee services that the council and
individual churches provided decreased over time, the program continued to
assist with family reunification, English classes and naturalization services.

"Now the (English) is desperately needed for the Spanish-speaking people and
others, but there's no funding for it," Levell said.

In the past, Church World Service - and, later, the federal government -
provided money that covered the cost of the administration of English programs,
among other things.

But federal funding, which was administered by the state, ended in February.

Since then, the council had paid for the classes with money out of the Council
of Churches' budget, Levell said.

The council has money it could use to continue the classes, but the council
board voted to set it aside for future refugee assistance, Levell said.

At the board's final meeting in December, members voted to continue to seek
funding for a center and to continue to provide help with the naturalization
process, Wicks said.

They've also learned they might receive private funding for English teachers for
six months to a year.

"We don't want to discontinue," she said. "We just felt like it should go on."

LOAD-DATE: January 2, 1998

LANGUAGE: English

                  Copyright 1998 St. Louis Post-Dispatch, Inc.


                              231 of 457 DOCUMENTS

                       St. Louis Post-Dispatch (Missouri)

                January 4, 1998, Sunday, FIVE STAR LIFT EDITION

BILLS WOULD HELP IMMIGRANTS IN MISSOURI TO LEARN ENGLISH;
BUT CALL FOR COMMON LANGUAGE WORRIES SOME WHO SAY IT'S UNNECESSARY;
SIMILAR BILLS HAVE FIZZLED FOR YEARS

BYLINE: Bill Bell Jr.; Post-Dispatch Jefferson City Bureau

SECTION: METRO, Pg. E4

LENGTH: 701 words


Catholic Charities job developer Regina Pierson has a hard time placing
immigrants. She has an even harder time finding nighttime English classes for
them.

Pierson said most of the 150 immigrants she placed last year in downtown St.
Louis hotels and manufacturing jobs had only a marginal command of the language.
Night and weekend classes for English as a second language are scarce.

"It's not that they don't want to go to school," she said. "They just can't."

Two similar bills that have been introduced in the Missouri Legislature may help
Pierson and others who work with Missouri's burgeoning immigrant and refugee
population. The bills would require that adult basic education programs,
including English classes for non-English speakers, be run by the state
education department.

The proposals also would make English the state's "common language," which
worries some people.

Anna Crosslin, who runs the International Institute of Metropolitan St. Louis,
the area's largest immigrant settlement agency, said English-first bills are
unnecessary and unrealistic.

"It (English) is the common language," she said. "Who needs to make it the
common language?"

Rep. Larry Thomason, D-Kennett, argues that the common-language bill he has
proposed in the House will protect Missouri from suits demanding that documents
be printed in multiple languages.

New Jersey, for example, was forced to print its drivers license manuals in at
least 10 languages, Thomason said. Missouri's is now printed only in English,
but tests are given in 11 languages.

"Should we, the state taxpayers, have to pay to have all state documents
translated simply because someone requests it?" Thomason asked. "I don't think
so."

The proposals differ from past efforts to make English the "official language"
of Missouri - legislation Thomason has backed. An "official language" law would
mean that all public documents, such as deeds, wills, birth and death
certificates, must be printed in English.

Under a common-language rule, a municipality would be able to choose if it
should have polylingual publications.

"Official language" bills have fizzled for years in the Legislature. Last year,
such a bill stalled in a committee headed by Sen. Joe Maxwell, D-Mexico.

Maxwell now supports the "common language" bill in the Senate after three
counties in his northeast Missouri district adopted similar measures.

The bill creates grants to fund English classes for non-English speakers. The
need-based grants would be administered by the Department of Elementary and
Secondary Education.

The Department of Social Services would also offer grants to help adults in
English classes with child care and transportation.

Maxwell's version also would require that wills and estates have an official
English translation. A cost analysis of the measure was incomplete, he said.

St. Louis has seen an increase in its immigrant population. The Center for
Immigration Studies, in the nation's capital, said the metropolitan area had
80,000 immigrants in 1996. That figure is expected to top 100,000 by 2000.

Refugees often are placed in St. Louis because they generally find jobs quickly
and the cost of living is low. The area also attracts secondary immigrants -
foreign-born people who come to St. Louis from other parts of the country.

The influx has created problems for public schools. The number of students in
St. Louis Public Schools who have limited proficiency in English has grown from
1,170 in 1994 to about 2,000 this school year, said Joel Judd, an administrator
with the Department of Elementary and Secondary Education. Statewide, the number
is 6,589.

Judd said the "common language" proposal was a departure from past bills.

"This bill really seems to focus on service," he said.

Crosslin still has her doubts about the bills' effectiveness. Immigrants often
work two and three jobs and don't have time to attend school, she said. Even if
the bill helps fund child care so parents can attend class, it still assumes
that child care is available in the neighborhoods where immigrants live.

"Money is clearly an important issue, but it isn't the only factor," she said.

LOAD-DATE: January 4, 1998

LANGUAGE: English

                  Copyright 1998 St. Louis Post-Dispatch, Inc.


                              232 of 457 DOCUMENTS

                       St. Louis Post-Dispatch (Missouri)

               January 10, 1998, Saturday, FIVE STAR LIFT EDITION

IS IT FREEDOM OR FREE AGENCY?

SECTION: EDITORIAL, Pg. 34

LENGTH: 359 words



IMMIGRATION

Is this a great country, or what?

That famous punch line by Russian immigrant Yakov Smirnoff is a perfect
commentary on bia the Orlando Hernandez story. Mr. Hernandez, a star Cuban
baseball pitcher, his wife, Noris Bosch, his catcher, Alberto Hernandez Perez,
and five others fled Cuba last week and landed on an uninhabited Bahamian
island. In short order, the U.S. State Department said the acclaimed pitcher,
his wife and his catcher may enter the United States. The others? "Absolutely
not. They do not qualify under the special circumstances."

And what special circumstances are these? The ballplayers were banned from
baseball in Cuba after helping Orlando's younger, half brother, Livan, escape
Cuba a couple years ago. Since little brother got here, he has done a pretty
good job of demonstrating his own special skills under special circumstances -
good enough to get the MVP award in the 1997 World Series.

As for the five turned away, they'd likely go to prison if returned to Cuba -
but those circumstances aren't special enough for the State Department.

While being able to throw a baseball past batters is highly compensated here,
such skills are not the same as being able to save lives or minds.

Orlando Hernandez has already demonstrated a fine understanding of the
capitalist system. Even though he had permission to come to the United States,
he continued to apply to other countries until Costa Rica and Nicaragua offered
visas to the entire group. He said he did not want his five companions returned
to Cuba. Maybe. But Mr. Hernandez may have had another reason: If he became a
U.S. resident, baseball rules would not let him negotiate to find the highest
bidder for his special skills.

What is freedom without free agency?

No one really expected the United States to turn away a talented athlete, any
more than it would have - or should have - turned away Mikhail Baryshnikov.

But it shouldn't try to hide behind the idea that the athlete had been
ill-treated or would be if he should be returned. Such is the fate of most
refugees who are cast away from these sought-after shores.

LOAD-DATE: January 10, 1998

LANGUAGE: English

                  Copyright 1998 St. Louis Post-Dispatch, Inc.


                              233 of 457 DOCUMENTS

                       St. Louis Post-Dispatch (Missouri)

                  January 11, 1998, Sunday, THREE STAR EDITION

IMMIGRATION FEE INCREASE IS PROPOSED AGAIN BY INS;
AGENCY WANTS TO MORE THAN DOUBLE SOME CHARGES

BYLINE: The Associated Press

SECTION: NEWS, Pg. A14

LENGTH: 381 words

DATELINE: WASHINGTON


The administration has refloated a plan to raise immigration fees, including
more than doubling the $ 95 citizenship application charge. The move was made
just months after it withdrew an earlier proposal in the face of an outcry on
and off Capitol Hill.

The Immigration and Naturalization Service is proposing to increase 30 fees. But
heedful of earlier criticism, it promised that the increases would not take
effect until officials could demonstrate that service to customers has improved.

Among the proposed fee increases: The cost of applying to become a U.S. citizen
would climb to $ 225 from $ 95, a 137 percent increase. Replacing a green card
would rise to $ 110 from $ 75, and the fee to become a legal permanent resident
would go to $ 220 from $ 130.

The full list of higher fees will appear in the Federal Register Monday, and the
agency is soliciting public comments for 60 days.

The government's inability to deal with the huge crush of citizenship
applications - the backlog stands at 1.7 million cases - has caused the wait for
naturalization to balloon from a six-month average several years ago to more
than two years in many instances.

The immigration service 'is in a Catch-22 situation," Doris Meissner, director
of the agency, said Friday. "We want to improve our services, and we know our
customers deserve better service, but in order to get there, we have to charge
what it costs."

Immigrant-rights activists bristled when the proposal first surfaced last
September, questioning the agency's timing in pushing for higher fees while
posting a badly tarnished service record.

A leading congressional critic remains unconvinced that the agency should
proceed now.

"Several months ago when they proposed this idea, we raised our voices in
indignation and anger. And we do the same thing again today," Rep. Luis
Gutierrez, D-Ill., said Friday.

"If seniors weren't getting attended by their physicians under the Medicare
program or veterans couldn't have access to health care, we wouldn't be hearing
from those departments about 100 percent increases in order to provide those
services."

But Gutierrez praised the agency for holding off on the increases until
improvements are demonstrated. "We are going to watch them," he cautioned.

LOAD-DATE: January 11, 1998

LANGUAGE: English

                  Copyright 1998 St. Louis Post-Dispatch, Inc.


                              234 of 457 DOCUMENTS

                       St. Louis Post-Dispatch (Missouri)

                  February 1, 1998, Sunday, THREE STAR EDITION

GREEN-CARD WEDDINGS RESULT IN CHARGES AGAINST 21 PEOPLE

BYLINE: The Associated Press

SECTION: NEWS, Pg. A13

LENGTH: 194 words

DATELINE: ROCHESTER, N.Y.


Twenty-one people have been indicted on charges of arranging or entering into
marriages of convenience to help 10 foreigners get their green cards.

Authorities said the three people who set up the nuptials and served as marriage
witnesses were charged along with 18 of the marriage partners.

"This is real-life, not the movies, and this is going to be a miserable
experience for the U.S. residents," federal prosecutor Christopher Taffe said
Friday. "All these ladies are going to get stuck with a divorce down the road or
an annulment."

The immigrants, nine men and a woman from Peru, Colombia, Brazil and Ecuador,
were married to 10 U.S. residents from western New York and Pennsylvania. After
obtaining marriage licenses from small-town justices between 1995 and 1997, the
couples went their separate ways, authorities said.

Each of the Americans was paid to be wed, but prosecutors would not say how
much.

The defendants were charged with conspiring to commit immigration marriage
fraud. Each could get five years in prison and a $ 250,000 fine.

Immigrants who marry American citizens can obtain a U.S. residency visa, or
green card.

LOAD-DATE: February 2, 1998

LANGUAGE: English

                  Copyright 1998 St. Louis Post-Dispatch, Inc.


                              235 of 457 DOCUMENTS

                       St. Louis Post-Dispatch (Missouri)

                February 2, 1998, Monday, FIVE STAR LIFT EDITION

GOVERNING BY EMPATHY WORKS IN LA

BYLINE: George Will; Copyright Washington Post Writers Group

SECTION: EDITORIAL, Pg. B7, GEORGE WILL COLUMN

LENGTH: 676 words

DATELINE: LOS ANGELES


It says much about modern government that one of the nation's most successful
elected officials is one of the least powerful. And it says something about
political leadership today that that official is this city's mayor, Richard
Riordan, who has a personal library of 40,000 books and is given to citing Moses
Maimonides (d. 1204) on "the eighth level of giving" (giving that makes the
recipient self-sufficient).

Lately Riordan has been coping with a multilayered controversy about
gasoline-powered leaf blowers.

Many middle-class Southern Californians tolerate immigrants when there is lawn
work to be done. Much of it is done by immigrants, whose wages are depressed by
competition from the constantly growing reserve army of other immigrants. To
maximize their efficiency, the lawn workers use the blowers, which make noise
and other pollution.

Banning gas-powered blowers will mean that the lawn workers will earn less by
servicing fewer lawns, or that lawn owners will pay more per lawn for
maintenance. During this controversy - a conflict of class, ethnicity and
hypocrisy characteristic of this collage city - it was the job of the mayor, the
only visible symbol of community, to seem sympathetic to all sides. Which
Riordan seems to have done.

For Riordan, being an ameliorative presence amounts to practicing what he, a
Catholic intellectual, P preaches. That is the theology of G.K. Chesterton, who
distilled it to this: I am important, and everyone else is, too.

Bite-size actions, such as spreading a balm of sympathy in the leaf blower
dispute, nibble away at tensions in a city that should be enjoying this respite
from larger calamities.re

This was, after all, the first city to suffer a major postwar riot (Watts,
1965). It is the only city to have suffered two such riots. (The 1992 riot,
after the first trial acquitted the policemen charged in the Rodney King
beating, was the nation's worst since the New York City draft riots of 1863.)
The Northridge earthquake of 1994 was the worst natural di saster in the
nation's history, in the dollar value of destruction.

Next? The Eastern Sierra, 300 miles north of here, California's most
volcanically active region, is the head of a vulnerable network of streams,
reservoirs and aqueducts that supplies two-thirds of this city's water. Seismic
activity there has been increasing.

Meanwhile, Riordan, a Republican in his second term, can savor a steep reduction
in violent crime, largely because, he says, so many of the small cadre of
violent people are now in prison. And he says city government has become less of
a job-killing machine.

The bureaucratic drag of permit processes has been diminished enough that movie
production is up 60 percent since Riordan became mayor. That paradox - measuring
success in terms of movies made in the movie capital - leads to another:
Economic revitalization has required a surge of upscale immigration to this
capital of immigration, bringing people (particularly from Ireland, Israel and
India) to fill some of the 30,000 unfilled jobs in the computer industry.

More efficiencies may be needed in a city where, Riordan says, some hotels send
their linens 120 miles to Tijuana to be laundered by low-wage workers. However,
Los Angeles has passed New York City as a center of the g arment industry
because immigrant workers have transformed this city as radically as immigration
transformed Miami.

Fred Siegel, in his book "The Future Once Happened Here: New York, D.C., L.A.,
and the Fate of America's Big Cities," notes that in 1960, five years before the
liberalization of immigration laws, Los Angeles had the largest percentage of
native-born white Protestants of any major U.S. city. Only 9 percent of the
residents were foreign born. By 1980 the percentage was 27; by 1990, 40.

Riordan says part of his job is answering "Nothing" when asked what he can do to
solve a neighborhood's problems. Nothing much, that is, beyond bestowing
recognition by expressing empathy. Which is, come to think about it, a lot.

LOAD-DATE: February 3, 1998

LANGUAGE: English

                  Copyright 1998 St. Louis Post-Dispatch, Inc.


                              236 of 457 DOCUMENTS

                       St. Louis Post-Dispatch (Missouri)

               February 15, 1998, Sunday, FIVE STAR LIFT EDITION

IMMIGRANTS OFTEN USE SERVICES OF FEST SPONSOR;
WESTERN UNION KNOWS WHERE ITS MARKET IS

BYLINE: Jerri Stroud; Of The Post-Dispatch

SECTION: BUSINESS, Pg. E2

LENGTH: 371 words


On the surface, Western Union's support of the International Folk Fest over the
last few years seems like a no-brainer.

The immigrants who turn to the International Institute to learn English, find
housing and get help resettling in St. Louis also are among the heaviest users
of Western Union's money transfer service.

Anna Crosslin, the institute's director, says that businesses who serve the
immigrant population often don't know how to reach people of different cultures
because of differences in language, customs and economic status among various
immigrant groups. Some businesses aren't aware of the institute, its services
and its client base.

"Western Union has become more and more aware of events like this as a way to
reach their consumers," Crosslin said.

The October festival draws thousands of visitors who come to see ethnic dance,
hear a variety of music, purchase crafts and taste foods from many cultures.
This year's festival is scheduled for Oct. 17 and 18.

Western Union began underwriting the festival in 1995, about the time the
company had decided to work on expanding its overseas business, said Jon
Steinbach, market development manager for Western Union's central United States
and Mid-South regions.

International business is Western Union's smallest but fastest growing source of
revenue, Steinbach said.

The company's money transfer service is a popular way for immigrants to send
money to relatives back home because it is convenient, safe and reliable,
Steinbach said. Customers pay a premium for the service, he admitted, but
sometimes a money transfer is the only sure way to see that the money makes it
to the right person.

Last year, customers in the St. Louis area sent money to 121 different
countries.

Crosslin said the St. Louis area has a foreign-born population of more than
80,000.

In addition to sponsoring the festival, Western Union made a donation to the
institute's holiday party for immigrant children and provided support for other
outreach programs.

Western Union is a subsidiary of First Data Corp. of New Jersey. In addition to
24,000 agents in the United States, the company has 4,000 agents in Mexico and
14,000 in 130 other countries.

LOAD-DATE: February 15, 1998

LANGUAGE: English

GRAPHIC: PHOTO, Photo by WAYNE CROSSLIN/POST-DISPATCH - Members of Grupo
Atlantico, a dance troupe from Colombia, perform as part of a fashion show at
last year's International Folk Fest in Queeny Park. They are modeling Colombian
fashions.

                  Copyright 1998 St. Louis Post-Dispatch, Inc.


                              237 of 457 DOCUMENTS

                       St. Louis Post-Dispatch (Missouri)

                   March 8, 1998, Sunday, THREE STAR EDITION

GEPHARDT BACKS BILL TO SPEED CITIZENSHIP;
DEMOCRATS DECRY BACKLOG OF IMMIGRANT APPLICATIONS;
GOP WANTS TO TIGHTEN PROCESS

BYLINE: Los Angeles Times

SECTION: NEWS, Pg. A3

LENGTH: 604 words

DATELINE: WASHINGTON


Democratic leaders have introduced legislation to speed the naturalization
process, even as two congressional committees held hearings on bills intended to
tighten up the process.

Starting an election-year effort aimed at attracting Hispanic voters, Sen.
Edward M. Kennedy, D-Mass., and House Minority Leader Richard A. Gephardt,
D-Mo., offered bills Thursday that would limit the Immigration and
Naturalization Service's ability to increase fees until it reduces by 30 percent
the backlog of 1.7 million citizenship applications.

"It is critical that we update this process so that government can carry out
this step rationally, efficiently, in a timely manner and with integrity,"
Gephardt said at a news conference featuring immigrants waiting to become
citizens. "We must resist the modern know-nothings in the Republican Party who
want to slam the door shut in the faces of new immigrants."

But while Gephardt and Kennedy outlined their plan to liberalize the system,
Sen. Spencer Abraham, R-Mich., and Rep. Lamar Smith, R-Texas, called for a
crackdown in light of a recent report that thousands of immigrants were
improperly naturalized two years ago. Their bills would codify many of the
revisions that the immigration service has adopted in response to the
controversy, such as requiring criminal background checks and having a
standardized citizenship test. The bills also would extend to five years the
window for the agency to revoke new citizenship.

Referring to the Citizenship USA drive, in which officials found that at least
6,000 people - and possibly as many as 30,000 - were improperly naturalized
between August 1995 and September 1996, Smith said, "If that kind of pressure
was put on the (agency) once, it seems likely that sometime in the future it
could be put on the (agency) again."

The legislative effort he and Abraham initiated seeks to keep that from
occurring.

Smith added: "I hope we never again have to explain to the American people how
anyone cheapened and diminished the greatest honor our nation can bestow."

Immigration officials last month unveiled an overhaul of the entire
naturalization process. On Wednesday, the agency said that by September it would
take over administration of the English and civics test required for
naturalization. Private groups have handled the tests since 1991, and federal
officials recently uncovered two major cases of fraud.

But while Justice Department experts and consultants tout the progress the
service has made to standardize the citizenship process and keep it secure,
agency officials offer little hope of a quick reduction in the backlog. James
Angus, acting director of naturalization, said the agency's goal of cutting the
wait to six months was at least 18 months away.

"Can I please have an answer: When can I expect - and I'll be there on the
doorstep on that day - when can I expect to have the backlog eliminated?" Sen.
Dianne Feinstein, D-Calif., demanded to know.

Angus and others declined to provide a timetable.

The Kennedy-Gephardt bills would give Attorney General Janet Reno a year to
draft a plan to cut the backlog so the wait is no more than six months. They
also would require the service to allocate $ 100 million to streamline the
citizenship process through improved technology and increased staffing.

The bills would prevent the agency from raising the fee for naturalization above
$ 150 until the piles of applications are cut by a third in every office.
Earlier this year, the agency announced plans to increase the fee from $ 90 to
more than $ 200 to make the system pay for itself.

LOAD-DATE: March 8, 1998

LANGUAGE: English

GRAPHIC: PHOTO, Photo from THE ASSOCIATED PRESS - House Minority Leader Richard
A. Gephardt (left), D-Mo., and Sen. Edward M. Kennedy, D-Mass., walk to their
news conference on legislation they are sponsoring to speed the naturalization
process.

                  Copyright 1998 St. Louis Post-Dispatch, Inc.


                              238 of 457 DOCUMENTS

                       St. Louis Post-Dispatch (Missouri)

                 March 22, 1998, Sunday, FIVE STAR LIFT EDITION

WORLD

BYLINE: From News Services

SECTION: NEWS, Pg. A15, WORLD BRIEFS COLUMN

LENGTH: 819 words



LEBANON

Annan hopes inspections will free Iraq from sanctions

United Nations Secretary-General Kofi Annan said on Saturday that he hoped U.N.
arms inspectors would finish their work in Iraq soon to pave the way for the
lifting of sanctions clamped on Baghdad since 1990 for its invasion of Kuwait.
Annan told students at American University in Beirut that he hoped "enhanced
(Iraqi) cooperation" would speed up the day when the inspectors will finish
their work and the U.N. Security Council will begin talking about lifting the
sanctions. In February, Annan won Iraqi concessions that headed off a potential
U.S. military attack against Iraq. The United States said Iraqi restrictions had
prevented U.N. inspectors from searching for weapons of mass destruction.

NETHERLANDS

Protesters call Dutch immigration restrictions racist

More than 2,000 activists marched through the Dutch capital Saturday, accusing
the government of racism for its growing reluctance to admit refugees. Dutch
political leaders say a lack of space in Europe's most densely populated country
has led them to rethink their open-door policy. Up to 300 immigrants apply daily
for asylum in the Netherlands. Most are turned away, rejected as "economic
refugees" seeking better living conditions rather than fleeing persecution.

BRAZIL

Natural gas tanker truck explosion kills at least five

A tanker truck carrying natural gas exploded as it was making its way down a
mountain highway in western Brazil, killing at least five people and injuring
15, police said Saturday in Sao Paulo. A federal highway police spokesman said
four people were missing and feared dead after the blast late Friday near Serra
de Sao Vicente in Mato Grosso state. The spokesman said authorities suspect the
truck's brakes caught fire and the flames spread to the rest of the tank.

CAMBODIA

King Sihanouk pardons son for two convictions

Cambodia's King Norodom Sihanouk granted a royal pardon to his son, deposed
co-premier Prince Norodom Ranariddh, on Saturday for two criminal convictions
this month. The pardon was a crucial step in a Japanese-sponsored peace plan
aimed at ending fighting in Cambodia and will allow the prince to take part in
national elections on July 26. Following two trials this month, Ranariddh was
sentenced in absentia to 35 years in prison - five years for smuggling weapons
and 30 for plotting a coup - and was ordered to pay more than $ 50 million in
damages. He denied the charges but, as part of the Japanese peace plan, agreed
to the trials in his absence to be followed by a pardon from the king. The king
had said earlier Saturday that he could not grant the pardon because Hun Sen,
who ousted the prince last July, had not agreed to it. The king reversed himself
hours later after Hun Sen formally requested that a full pardon be granted.

AFGHANISTAN

Residents celebrate new year in spite of official ban

Residents of the Afghan capital of Kabul celebrated their new year with special
food and fancy clothes on Saturday despite an ostensible ban on the holiday by
the ruling Taliban Islamic movement. People in Kabul went to shrines for prayers
or to hilltops as a rare form of entertainment in the war-shattered city. Some
women used only a veil to cover their faces instead of the head-to-toe "burqa"
prescribed by the Taliban. Visits to relatives were also part of the
celebrations. The Taliban - a purist Islam ic movement that took over Kabul in
September 1996 and controls more than two-thirds of Afghanistan - says the
celebration of the new year is pagan and has no room in Islam.

BEIJING

Traces of Siberian tigers are reported in northern China

United Nations researchers recently found traces of as many as six Siberian
tigers - a species on the verge of extinction - in northeast China's Changbai
Mountains. They also found signs of wild leopards, another endangered species,
the state-run Xinhua News Agency reported Saturday in Beijing. The experts from
China, Russia and the United States have been to Russia and plan to travel to
North Korea to find out how many Siberian tigers remain in the wild and how to
protect them, Xinhua said. Only 300 Siberian tigers are believed to survive in
the wild, most of them in Russia.

INDONESIA

Smoke from island wildfires closes schools and offices

Smoke from wildfires on Borneo island blanketed the provincial capital of
Samarinda on Saturday. Health officials advised residents of Samarinda, the
capital of east Kalimantan province, to stay indoors or wear masks if they had
to go outside, the official Antara news agency said Saturday in Jakarta. The
news agency said doctors had treated thousands of people for respiratory
infections since fires broke out in forests near the city in January. Many
offices were shut, and the Education Department ordered schools closed.

LOAD-DATE: March 22, 1998

LANGUAGE: English

GRAPHIC: PHOTO, THE ASSOCIATED PRESS Photo - A dancer prepares to celebrate the
arrival of spring with thousands of others at the Pyramid of the Sun in
Teotihuacan, Mexico. The dancer is adorned in a traditional outfit of the
pre-Hispanic people.

                  Copyright 1998 St. Louis Post-Dispatch, Inc.


                              239 of 457 DOCUMENTS

                       St. Louis Post-Dispatch (Missouri)

                March 22, 1998, Sunday, EARLY FIVE STAR EDITION

WORLD

BYLINE: From News Services

SECTION: NEWS, Pg. A15, WORLD BRIEFS COLUMN

LENGTH: 800 words



LEBANON

Annan hopes inspections will free Iraq from sanctions

United Nations Secretary-General Kofi Annan said on Saturday that he hoped U.N.
arms inspectors would finish their work in Iraq soon to pave the way for the
lifting of sanctions clamped on Baghdad since 1990 for its invasion of Kuwait.
Annan told students at American University in Beirut that he hoped "enhanced
(Iraqi) cooperation" would speed up the day when the inspectors will finish
their work and the U.N. Security Council will begin talking about lifting the
sanctions. In February, Annan won Iraqi concessions that headed off a potential
U.S. military attack against Iraq. The United States said Iraqi restrictions had
prevented U.N. inspectors from searching for weapons of mass destruction.

NETHERLANDS

Protesters call Dutch immigration restrictions racist

More than 2,000 activists marched through the Dutch capital Saturday, accusing
the government of racism for its growing reluctance to admit refugees. Dutch
political leaders say a lack of space in Europe's most densely populated country
has led them to rethink their open-door policy. Up to 300 immigrants apply daily
for asylum in the Netherlands. Most are turned away, rejected as "economic
refugees" seeking better living conditions rather than fleeing persecution.

BRAZIL

Natural gas tanker truck explosion kills at least five

A tanker truck carrying natural gas exploded as it was making its way down a
mountain highway in western Brazil, killing at least five people and injuring
15, police said Saturday in Sao Paulo. A federal highway police spokesman said
four people were missing and feared dead after the blast late Friday near Serra
de Sao Vicente in Mato Grosso state. The spokesman said authorities suspect the
truck's brakes caught fire and the flames spread to the rest of the tank.

CAMBODIA

King refuses to pardon son for two convictions

Cambodia's peace process appeared to be threatened on Saturday as King Norodom
Sihanouk said he would not grant his son, deposed co-premier Prince Norodom
Ranariddh, a royal pardon for two criminal convictions this month. The king said
a pardon would put the Cambodian monarchy in jeopardy. His son got a combined
sentence of 35 years in prison at two trials. Sihanouk has been in Beijing for
medical treatment since January. The information was released in Phnom Penh,
Cambodia's capital, in Sihanouk's palace bulletin. A pardon for Ranariddh is a
key step in a Japanese-sponsored peace plan aimed at ending the factional
fighting in Cambodia and ensuring that the prince, ousted by Second Prime
Minister Hun Sen in July, can take part in the July 26 national election.

AFGHANISTAN

Residents celebrate new year in spite of official ban

Residents of the Afghan capital of Kabul celebrated their new year with special
food and fancy clothes on Saturday despite an ostensible ban on the holiday by
the ruling Taliban Islamic movement. To mark the start of the traditional Afghan
new year, people in Kabul went to shrines for prayers or to hilltops as a rare
form of entertainment in the war-shattered city. Some women used only a veil to
cover their faces instead of the head-to-toe "burqa" prescribed by the Taliban.
Visits to relatives were also part of the celebrations. The Taliban - a purist
Islamic movement that took over Kabul in September 1996 and controls more than
two-thirds of Afghanistan - says the celebration of the new year is pagan and
has no room in Islam.

BEIJING

Traces of Siberian tigers are reported in northern China

United Nations researchers recently found traces of as many as six Siberian
tigers - a species on the verge of extinction - in northeast China's Changbai
Mountains. They also found signs of wild leopards, another endangered species,
the state-run Xinhua News Agency reported Saturday in Beijing. The experts from
China, Russia and the United States have been to Russia and plan to travel to
North Korea to find out how many Siberian tigers remain in the wild and how to
protect them, Xinhua said. Only 300 Siberian tigers are believed to survive in
the wild, most of them in Russia.

INDONESIA

Smoke from island wildfires closes schools and offices

Smoke from wildfires on Borneo island blanketed the provincial capital of
Samarinda on Saturday. Health officials advised residents of Samarinda, the
capital of east Kalimantan province, to stay indoors or wear masks if they had
to go outside, the official Antara news agency said Saturday in Jakarta. The
news agency said doctors had treated thousands of people for respiratory
infections since fires broke out in forests near the city in January. Many
offices were shut, and the Education Department ordered schools closed.

LOAD-DATE: March 22, 1998

LANGUAGE: English

GRAPHIC: PHOTO, THE ASSOCIATED PRESS Photo - A dancer prepares to celebrate the
arrival of spring with thousands of others at the Pyramid of the Sun in
Teotihuacan, Mexico. The dancer is adorned in a traditional outfit of the
pre-Hispanic people.

                  Copyright 1998 St. Louis Post-Dispatch, Inc.


                              240 of 457 DOCUMENTS

                       St. Louis Post-Dispatch (Missouri)

                 April 20, 1998, Monday, FIVE STAR LIFT EDITION

ENGLISH CLASSES GIVE IMMIGRANTS A ROUTE INTO THE AMERICAN WAY;
BILL WOULD PAY FOR MORE ADULT EDUCATION;
FREE SCHOOLS FIT NEW RESIDENTS' LIVES

BYLINE: Mei-Ling Hopgood; Of The Post-Dispatch

SECTION: METRO, Pg. B1

LENGTH: 844 words


The advanced class at the English Language School in University City provides a
glimpse into the population of immigrants and foreign visitors who arrive in St.
Louis each month.

The shades of their skin range from deepest ebony to the palest white, and their
eyes are different shapes and colors. They have names such as Midori, Luis, Liu,
Karolina, Amel, Massandie and Jung Im.

They come to work, to study, to get married, to visit relatives or friends or to
hide from their pasts. They include political and religious refugees, university
students, lawyers, engineers, athletes, a priest, a model who married a former
priest and, occasionally, an illegal immigrant.

Free English classes also are available at the International Institute of
Metropolitan St. Louis, Metropolitan Community College in East St. Louis, the
St. Louis Public Schools, the Parkway School District and the Carbondale School
District in Carbondale, Ill.

Fernando Hernandez, 30, a native of Colombia, is in the advanced class at the
University City school. The law school graduate came to St. Louis to play soccer
with the Ambush. He wants to better communicate with his teammates and his
neighbors here.

"If I'm going to live here three years or more, I have to learn to speak," he
said.

English programs are central in debate over a bill (SB583) that would establish
English as the "common" language in Missouri. The public programs, along with
those to teach students in kindergarten through high school, could share from $
2 million to $ 3 million more per year from the state, said Sen. Joe Maxwell,
D-Mexico, who sponsored the bill. Some believe the bill would require much more
funding.

In Illinois and Missouri, English as a Second Language programs are funded
through the states' adult-education budgets. In Missouri, the budget for adult
education is about $ 11 million per year, and about 15 percent of that goes to
teaching English.

In Illinois last year, almost 60 percent of the state's $ 40 million
adult-education budget went to teaching English, mostly in Chicago and rural
Illinois.

Maxwell hopes that the Missouri bill will meet the state's increasing need for
help in teaching English to new immigrants. From 1990 to 1997, 14,900 immigrants
moved into counties in the St. Louis region, according to census estimates.

The Metro East area attracted fewer than 1,000 immigrants. The immigration rate
here is much slower than in many metropolitan areas but is increasing steadily,
thanks in part to healthy employment rates.

The University City English Language School, located in a small building in an
alley off Delcrest Drive near Delmar Boulevard and Interstate 170, is one of the
oldest schools in the region to serve immigrants.

In 1975, the Jewish Federation founded the school to help Russian refugees learn
English. The school had financial problems in the late 1980s, but corporations,
supporters and former students donated money to keep it open. Last year, the
University City School District took it over and included it in the district's
adult-education program.

Students attend these classes for free. University City's school got about $
350,000 this school year to teach English.

Today, classes are attended by a mix of Russian Jews, Asians, Central and South
Americans and Eastern Europeans, reflecting the diversity of immigrants who come
to St. Louis. The students sit elbow-to-elbow, chewing on new English words like
strange new tastes.

Each lesson is planned with the idea that students will come and go. Some might
stay a month while visiting relatives. Some might stay a year before finding a
job, or they might attend class only on days they don't work. Others will go to
the free school until they're ready to handle university classes.

One day recently, teacher Michelle Kraus was teaching the structure of
conditional sentences. She wrote on the board, "If I have money, I will go with
you."

"What condition is this?" she asked.

Massandie Kaniga, 24, from the Ivory Coast, giggled and pressed her hand to her
head.

"I'm lost," she said.

Kaniga wrote her own sentence on the board: "If I were rich, I would built a
house."

Her classmates help her.

"If I were rich, I would build a house."

On some days, students read essays, trying to figure out the meaning of new
words. Other times, they read stories aloud.

They learn things many Americans probably have long forgotten, such as modal
auxiliary verbs.

(Just a refresher: A modal auxiliary verb is a verb such as can, may or would
that is combined with another verb to indicate its mood.)

Some people question spending tax money to teach English to immigrants and
visitors. Daria Imbeault, coordinator of the Adult Basic Education program in
University City, said such programs enable people to lead a productive life. "If
they have English, they can go out and get a job," she said. "These visitors
often turn into immigrants. And isn't this the way to help them embrace our ways
and an understanding of America?"

LOAD-DATE: April 20, 1998

LANGUAGE: English

GRAPHIC: PHOTO, Color Photo by JERRY NAUNHEIM JR. / POST-DISPATCH - Father
Eugene Randriamanoelina, a Catholic priest from Madagascar, watches recently as
Massandie Kaniga of the Ivory Coast writes a sentence at the English Language
School in University City.

                  Copyright 1998 St. Louis Post-Dispatch, Inc.


                              241 of 457 DOCUMENTS

                       St. Louis Post-Dispatch (Missouri)

                   April 26, 1998, Sunday, THREE STAR EDITION

MANY FUJIANS FLEE CHINA FOR U.S.;
ETHNIC CHINESE PREFER LIFE IN SMALLER CITIES;
OFTEN, SMUGGLERS BRING THEM IN

BYLINE: The Associated Press

SECTION: METRO, Pg. C12

LENGTH: 670 words

DATELINE: NEW YORK


Yi Ken Ren had one child too many for China's strict family-planning policies,
so he scrimped together enough money to pay smugglers and fled his village in
China's southeast Fujian province.

It took him a month to get to the United States, one of tens of thousands of
Fujians who make up the biggest wave of Chinese immigrants to this country in
the past decade. Like some of them, he saw the Chinatowns in New York and Los
Angeles but turned instead to small-town America. Ren, 46, settled in
Petersburg, Va., where he opened a Chinese restaurant.

"It's just not as safe in the big cities," said Ren, who was recently granted
political asylum. "When I was there, I had no rest and I was constantly afraid
for my own safety, even among my own people. Besides, there's more opportunity
in small towns - not like New York, where there's already a Chinese restaurant
on just about every street."

The Fujians have quietly expanded into cities such as Atlanta; Charleston,
W.Va.; and Columbus, Ohio. The migration away from Chinese enclaves is
particular to this Chinese ethnic group, some experts said earlier this month.

"They don't want competition. That's why many of the Fujians don't stay in
Chinatowns like the Cantonese," said Peter Kwong, a professor at Hunter College
in New York who has written a book about them. "They're so scattered that it's
impossible to really know how many and where they are."

The U.S. Immigration and Naturalization Service says about 23,000 Chinese were
in the United States illegally in 1996. Some scholars say the number is closer
to 50,000 each year.

"China should be somewhere in the top of the INS list. But the INS does not
acknowledge this because they're embarrassed," Kwong said. "The only way they
have of tracking people is if their visas expire. They can't keep track of
people who don't have papers."

Smugglers, primarily from Taiwan, have helped Fujians make their way all over
the world, experts said. Some go to Southeast Asian countries, such as Japan,
Malaysia and the Philippines. Others have settled in Europe. But most come to
New York, at least at first.

The Fujians have transformed New York's Chinatown. Their businesses include
matchmaking services and shipping. Newborns are sometimes sent back to China for
grandparents to care for because both parents work.

On the streets, the lilting Fujian dialect is heard more often than the
Cantonese dialect that once was supreme.

Some may work 16-hour days, seven days a week to pay off smuggling debts.

Authorities say some Fujians, unlike Ren, also have brought new blood to the
ethnic gangs that exploit new arrivals or kidnap more-established Chinese for
ransom. Many Fujians are hurt by those gangs, too, authorities say.

"The gangs and smugglers . . . make millions of dollars from these people, and
they abuse them on the journey and when they get here," said Russ Bergeron,
senior press officer with the INS in Washington.

The horrors of the mass smuggling of Fujians came to light on the night of June
6, 1993, when the Golden Venture ran aground in New York. The 300 people locked
for four months in a cramped cargo hold jumped into freezing, dark waters. At
least 10 drowned.

Though many ships since have been caught with illegal immigrants, more
immigrants get through by plane, experts say.

"The illegal immigrants carry false papers that sometimes even have the picture
of somebody else. The customs people don't check that closely. To them, all
Chinese look alike," said Ko-lin Chin, a criminal justice professor at Rutgers
University in Newark, N.J.

Bergeron disagreed, saying the INS scrutinizes all documents. Would-be
immigrants without possible asylum claims are deported.

Ren, who won asylum because he was persecuted for violating China's family
planning policies, was smuggled from the Fujian province almost nine years ago,
for a fee of $ 20,000.

He hopes to soon bring his wife and three children by the conventional method -
through U.S. visas.

LOAD-DATE: April 26, 1998

LANGUAGE: English

GRAPHIC: PHOTO, Photo from THE ASSOCIATED PRESS - Two men stand on East Broadway
in New York's Chinatown, where in the last 10 years Fujian immigrants have
challenged more-established groups for power.

                  Copyright 1998 St. Louis Post-Dispatch, Inc.


                              242 of 457 DOCUMENTS

                       St. Louis Post-Dispatch (Missouri)

                     May 4, 1998, Monday, FIVE STAR EDITION

SENATOR'S AIDE REPORTEDLY HAD INVALID WORK VISA;
SOUTH AFRICAN COORDINATED MOSELEY-BRAUN'S '92 RUN

BYLINE: The Associated Press

SECTION: METRO, Pg. B4

LENGTH: 287 words

DATELINE: CHICAGO


The former campaign coordinator and one-time fiance of Sen. Carol Moseley-Braun,
D-Ill., did not have the proper immigration documents to work in the United
States when he ran her victorious 1992 campaign, a newspaper has reported.

Kgosie Matthews, a South African citizen, could have been deported because he
did not have a work permit, the Chicago Tribune reported Sunday.

Moseley-Braun's campaign committee never asked the government for permission to
employ him, the newspaper said.

His hiring is unlikely to prompt penalties or fines against the senator or her
campaign.

Michael Briggs, a spokesman for Moseley-Braun, said Matthews told the campaign
he had the proper credentials.

Matthews, 41, had obtained a work visa while employed for a public relations
firm, but that document became invalid when he changed jobs.

The Tribune said it is unlikely Matthews would have been granted another visa.

"I have not in my 12 years of experience seen a (work) visa issued for someone
in the political field," said David Venturella, an immigration official in
Chicago.

Matthews has not worked for Moseley-Braun for five years but continues to cast a
controversial shadow over the first black woman elected to the Senate.

Her opponent this year, Republican Peter Fitzgerald, has been critical of
Moseley-Braun for a 1996 trip with Matthews to visit Nigerian dictator Sani
Abacha.

Fitzgerald also has raised questions about the sale of a Chicago condominium the
senator co-owned with Matthews.

The Internal Revenue Service is investigating whether Matthews improperly
converted campaign funds to his personal use and failed to pay federal income
taxes on income earned in the United States.

LOAD-DATE: May 5, 1998

LANGUAGE: English

GRAPHIC: PHOTO, Photo headshot - Moseley-Braun

                  Copyright 1998 St. Louis Post-Dispatch, Inc.


                              243 of 457 DOCUMENTS

                       St. Louis Post-Dispatch (Missouri)

                May 13, 1998, Wednesday, FIVE STAR LIFT EDITION

NATION

BYLINE: From News Services

SECTION: NEWS, Pg. A4, NATION BRIEFS COLUMN

LENGTH: 1010 words



150 Haitians jump ship in Miami; most are rounded up

More than 150 undocumented Haitians jumped from a freighter into the Miami River
and swam ashore Tuesday. They were chased in and around riverfront businesses by
U.S. immigration agents and police. "We had a lot of policemen running in and
out with their guns drawn," said Este Garcia, owner of Garcia's Seafood Grill.
At least 120 people were captured. Forty teen-agers were among those who jumped
from the green-and-white freighter Rose-Marie Express as it pulled into dock,
police said. Some of the passeng ers ducked into waiting cars and escaped while
others hid under the docks.

Arbitrator reinstates Miss Colorado, awards her damages

An arbitrator on Tuesday reinstated Regina Flores as Miss Colorado, giving her
back the crown she lost in a bitter dispute with pageant officials and awarding
her $ 78,000 in damages. The pageant "intentionally inflicted emotional harm and
distress" on Flores, retired Denver Judge Harold Reed said. Flores, 22, was also
awarded $ 75,000 for attorneys' fees. She was fired Dec. 30 after pageant
officials said she violated her contract when she got a part-time job at a
department store without approval, got her mother to book her appearances and
missed one appearance. Flores said she was fired without cause. She sued to get
her title back and the rights to the $ 11,000 in scholarship money she won.
Reed, after a hearing in Colorado Springs, sided firmly with Flores, who was the
first Latina Miss Colorado, dismissing one of the pageant's causes for
termination - that she failed to agree to fly to Russia for an appearance - as
"absolutely ludicrous." Reed said no such trip was planned.

Danish mother sues NY for $ 20 million in toddler case

A Danish woman arrested for leaving her 14-month-old child outside a Manhattan
restaurant while she ate inside has filed a $ 20 million suit against the city.
The suit, filed in U.S. District Court in Manhattan on Monday, accused the city
and various police officers of falsely arresting and maliciously prosecuting
Anette Sorensen on May 10, 1997. The suit also alleged that the city deprived
her of custody of her child, Liv, for four days. The Copenhagen woman was
arrested after police spotted the child in a stroller parked on a sidewalk
outside a restaurant. Sorensen said the practice is common in Denmark. Charges
of disorderly conduct and reckless endangerment were later dismissed.

4 are killed in plane crash in eastern West Virginia

Four people on their way to a golf resort were killed Tuesday when their
single-engine plane crashed in mountains near Davis, W.Va. Police recovered all
four bodies, believed to be adult men. The six-seat Beechcraft originated in
London, Ontario, and had stopped in Buffalo, N.Y., for a customs check before
continuing on to an airport in Southern Pines, N.C., said Jim Peters, a
spokesman for the Federal Aviation Administration.

Ex-nurse admits withholding medication from patients

A former nurse in Dallas said he stashed the medication intended for dozens of
patients in his locker when he got too busy to administer the drugs. Three of
the nurse's patients who did not receive their medication have died, and
prosecutors are trying to determine whether their deaths had anything to do with
the withheld prescriptions. St. Paul Medical Center discovered the problem in
November - 10 months after David Mark Anthony, 29, was fired for reasons
unrelated to patient care, a hospital spokeswoman said. Anthony's locker was
opened, and administrators found dozens of plastic bags containing intravenous
medicine with patients' names on the labels, she said.

Former Citadel cadet settles sexual harassment claim

A former cadet at The Citadel in Charleston, S.C., who sued over alleged sexual
harassment and physical abuse has settled her case for $ 33,750. The
state-supported military college was not named as a defendant, but it paid Kim
Messer $ 15,000 as part of the settlement to stave off a separate suit. Messer
and Jeanie Mentavlos, two of the first four women to enter the corps of cadets
in 1996, left after one semester - claiming they were hazed and harassed. Among
other things, they said cadets kicked them, punched them and set their clothes
on fire. Messer accused six male cadets of negligence and mistreatment. One
settled separately for an undisclosed amount; the insurance companies of the
other five contributed to the settlement.

Nebraska congressman loses GOP gubernatorial primary

Rep. Jon Christensen's last-minute attacks in the Republican gubernatorial
primary backfired Tuesday as Lincoln Mayor Mike Johanns easily won the
nomination over the one-time front-runner. With 64 percent of precincts
reporting, Johanns had 56,966 votes, or 41 percent of the vote. State Auditor
John Breslow was second with 40,883 votes, or 29 percent, and Christensen
trailed with 38,429 votes, or 28 percent. Two other candidates got 1 percent of
the vote each. Christensen faced a barrage of criticism from within his own
party in the days leading up to the primary for a flier he mailed last week to
potential voters. The flier said: "When the local Lincoln cable company removed
obscene and racist programming from its channels, incredibly, Mike Johanns
stepped in and made the cable station put these shows back on the air. Johanns
said the shows have 'a right to be aired.' " Johanns vehemently disputed the
allegations.

Michigan 14-year-old is accused of threatening Clinton

The Secret Service is investigating a Michigan 14-year-old accused of
threatening President Bill Clinton's life in a message sent to the White House
Web site. The youth attends Avondale Middle School in the Detroit suburb of
Rochester Hills. The alleged threat was sent before 210 eighth-graders from the
school traveled to Washington last week and saw Clinton in a White House visit.
School officials and Secret Service agents said the threats were discovered
before the trip and that the student was disciplined.

LOAD-DATE: July 24, 2000

LANGUAGE: English

GRAPHIC: PHOTO THE ASSOCIATED PRESS Photo - These Haitians are among about 150
undocumented refugees held by authorities in Miami. They were caught Tuesday
after jumping into the Miami River from an arriving freighter.

                  Copyright 1998 St. Louis Post-Dispatch, Inc.


                              244 of 457 DOCUMENTS

                       St. Louis Post-Dispatch (Missouri)

                May 13, 1998, Wednesday, FIVE STAR LIFT EDITION

SENATE VOTES TO RESTORE FOOD-STAMP BENEFITS FOR 250,000 LEGAL IMMIGRANTS

BYLINE: THE ASSOCIATED PRESS

SECTION: NEWS, Pg. A7

LENGTH: 319 words

DATELINE: WASHINGTON


A quarter-million legal immigrants would regain food stamp benefits under
legislation passed Tuesday by the Senate.

The $ 1.9 billion bill, sent to the House on a 92-8 vote, also would provide
financial guarantees for crop insurance and earmark money for agricultural
research in what supporters said was a balance intended to appeal to both urban
anti-hunger forces and farm advocates.

"This is a carefully crafted compromise," said Sen. Tom Harkin, D-Iowa.

On a 77-23 vote, the Senate defeated an attempt by Sen. Phil Gramm, R-Texas, to
send the bill back to committee, which would have effectively killed it. Gramm,
who had blocked a floor vote for weeks, argued that restoring more than $ 818
million in benefits to about 250,000 legal immigrants amounted to a full retreat
from the 1996 welfare overhaul that cut them off.

"The biggest problem with this bill is it puts a great big neon sign at the
border of the United States of America, 'Come and get welfare,' " Gramm said. "I
want people to come to America to go to work."

But President Bill Clinton indicated that he would veto the measure without the
food stamps provisions, and supporters stressed that farmers need the crop
insurance to renew policies, which would allow them to obtain bank credit and
peace of mind in case of disaster.

"There is no new entitlement here," said Sen. Dick Lugar, R-Ind., chairman of
the Agriculture Committee. "This is a question of a commitment to farmers."

The food stamp restoration applies to only a third of the estimated 935,000
legal immigrants who lost benefits under the welfare law, but supporters said
they were willing to accept that as a down payment.

Targeted are the elderly, those under 18, the disabled and people who came to
the United States to flee political or religious persecution. To qualify, those
immigrants had to be living in the United States as of Aug. 22, 1996.

LOAD-DATE: May 14, 1998

LANGUAGE: English

                  Copyright 1998 St. Louis Post-Dispatch, Inc.


                              245 of 457 DOCUMENTS

                       St. Louis Post-Dispatch (Missouri)

                  June 8, 1998, Monday, FIVE STAR LIFT EDITION

AREA'S HISPANIC POPULATION IS GROWING STEADILY

BYLINE: Robert Goodrich; Of The Post-Dispatch

SECTION: ILLINOIS POST, Pg. 1

LENGTH: 353 words


The St. Louis area, like the rest of the Midwest, is growing as a destination
for Mexican immigrants and other Hispanics.

The influx is not just from other countries, but also from places like Texas,
California and New York, said Arturo Puente, Mexican consul in St. Louis. "They
say the quality of life here is better," Puente said.

Chester S. Moyer, officer in charge of the U.S. Immigration and Naturalization
Service here, said that his office is experiencing a fourfold increase in
immigration-related operations over five years ago.

Moyer said that he had noticed a "general trend away from border areas where
political feelings against immigrants are high."

Puente, whose office covers Missouri and southern Illinois, cited the St. Louis
area's job availability and inexpensive housing. Traditionally, immigrants took
work in in agriculture, but Puente says the current trend is toward service jobs
and industry.

Reliable figures on the area's Hispanic population, and the rate of its growth,
are difficult to come by. Part of the problem is a definition of who is Hispanic
and the impossibility of counting Hispanics of questionable immigration status.

Puente was reluctant to hazard a guess on the growth of the Hispanic population
here. "Ten percent? Fifty percent? I don't know," he said.

The journal Demographics USA put the St. Louis metro area's Hispanic population
last year at 32,630, or 1.3 percent of the area's 2.5 million residents.

The U.S. Census Bureau says the nation's Hispanic population has more than
doubled since 1980, when it stood at 14.6 million, or 6.4 percent of the total.
By 2000, the Census Bureau expects that number to reach about 31.4 million, or
11.4 percent.

By 2020, the Census Bureau expects the nation's Hispanic population to be more
than 52 million and comprise 16 percent of the total, more than any ethnic
group, except whites.

Unlike many metropolitan areas, the Hispanic population here has generally
dispersed. There are some exceptions, including Fairmont City a nd a small
apartment community near Damiansville, in Clinton County, Ill.

LOAD-DATE: June 8, 1998

LANGUAGE: English

GRAPHIC: PHOTO Color Photo by Odell Mitchell Jr. / Post-Dispatch - The Cruz
family stand between rows of plants at the Home Nursery in Damiansville. Jose
Cruz (far right) moved to the United States 24 years ago. His wife Angelina
(second from right) and children followed three years ago.

                  Copyright 1998 St. Louis Post-Dispatch, Inc.


                              246 of 457 DOCUMENTS

                       St. Louis Post-Dispatch (Missouri)

                  June 8, 1998, Monday, FIVE STAR LIFT EDITION

SURGE IN MEXICAN IMMIGRATION MAKING AN IMPRESSION ON CAUTIOUS COMMUNITY

BYLINE: Robert Goodrich; Of The Post-Dispatch

SECTION: ILLINOIS POST, Pg. 7

LENGTH: 190 words

DATELINE: FAIRMONT CITY


This city has had a Mexican community as long as anyone remembers. The first
group arrived before World War I. Most worked at a local zinc plant.

That makes the village a natural focal point for the area's current immigration
surge. Mayor Alex Bregen estimates that 55 percent of its 2,100 residents are
Mexicans or Mexican-Americans.

"That's conservative," said Charles Suarez, former mayor and now St. Clair
County treasurer.

Bregen said that some long-term residents have voiced concern over the i nflux
of immigrants, but he views the new arrivals, mostly young families, as a plus.

"More than once," he said with a chuckle, "I've had someone with a Spanish
surname ask me, 'What are we going to do about all these Mexicans?' "

"I think a lot of it is culture clash," said Suarez.

"Just fear of something different from what they're used to," Bregen agreed.

Some people feel uncomfortable hearing neighbors speaking a language other than
English, even if their own grandparents spoke little English, the two agreed.

Other complaints involve loud music in the evenings, or slaughter of an animal
for a fiesta.

LOAD-DATE: June 8, 1998

LANGUAGE: English

GRAPHIC: PHOTO Photo Headshots - Alex J. Bregen, Charles Suarez

                  Copyright 1998 St. Louis Post-Dispatch, Inc.


                              247 of 457 DOCUMENTS

                       St. Louis Post-Dispatch (Missouri)

                June 11, 1998, Thursday, FIVE STAR LIFT EDITION

IRAQI RAPIST HERE FEARS DEPORTATION WILL MEAN EXECUTION;
AS AN ARMY DESERTER, HE COULD FACE A FIRING SQUAD, HIS ATTORNEY SAYS

BYLINE: Reese Dunklin; Of The Post-Dispatch

SECTION: METRO, Pg. B1

LENGTH: 835 words


Mohammed Sultan deserted Saddam Hussein's army and fled to the United States. He
settled in the St. Louis area, where in 1993, he raped a Clayton woman and later
pleaded guilty.

On Wednesday, a judge decided not to set aside his conviction or grant h im a
new trial, moving him closer to deportation and an almost sure death in Iraq,
his lawyer said.

Sultan, 26, faces execution by a firing squad because he defected from Saddam
Hussein's troops, said defense lawyer Stormy White.

White plans to file a motion today asking Judge Robert S. Cohen of St.  Louis
County Circuit Court to reconsider his ruling. If that fails, she said, she may
take the case to the Missouri Court of Appeals.

In August 1993, Sultan, a factory worker, was dating a Clayton woman and, while
in her home, had forcible sex with her, the prosecution contended. The woman's
teen-age daughter overheard the conflict and reported it to police.

Sultan pleaded guilty of the rape in November 1993. He had been told he would
face probation.

At issue, White says, is whether Sultan understood English and the American
criminal justice system well enough to have realized the impact of his plea.

White contends that had Sultan known he could be deported, he would have asked
for a trial.

"I don't think Mohammed has truly understood what has been going on," White
said.

Sultan is in Immigration and Naturalization Service custody in the St. Francois
County Jail in Farmington, Mo. He is running out of time and appeals.

The U.S. Board of Immigration Appeals on April 30 dismissed his request to
remain in the United State. St. Louis INS officials expect to process his file
soon. He could be deported in the next few weeks, said Chester Moyer, the
officer in charge of the St. Louis INS bureau.

"Right now, the order is final, so we can proceed with removal," he said.

St. Louis County court records show that Sultan, whose primary language is
Arabic, was taking English classes at the time he pleaded guilty in November
1993.

Sultan testified then that he had been in the United States about a year.  He
was sentenced to five years' probation and was instructed to enroll in
sex-offender counseling and to not contact the victim. Records state that he has
not violated probation.

In the following years, however, the ramifications of Sultan's plea became more
severe. INS officers took him into custody in January 1997, and he has been in
the jail in Farmington since.

Cohen wrote in his opinion that possible deportation is not grounds to reopen
the criminal case, noting that files have been closed, evidence may have been
lost and witnesses may have moved.

White said she had not expected to get the conviction set aside, but she had
hoped to get a new trial because Sultan didn't understand the pro ceedings and
wasn't told by his former defense lawyer, a public defender, of the deportation
possibility.

A court transcript shows Sultan spoke in broken English on several occasions and
misunderstood what prison meant.

During two sequences, White said, it is obvious Sultan did not comprehend the
judge's questions:

Judge: "How did you get here?"

Sultan: "I make the government take me through - I have - I come to the United
States, I make the government - they accept."

Judge: "You are going to be the guest of our prison. Do you like being in
prison?"

Sultan: "Yes, I do."

Judge: "What is prison?"

Sultan: "You mean do I like the United States?"

Judge: "No, do you like being in prison in the United States? Do you like being
in jail?"

Sultan: "No, no."

Sultan, when asked by the judge if he understood English, replied, "Yes, some."
Five times Sultan answered the judge with, "I don't understand."

Sultan's original defense lawyer, David Kenyon, had asked for an interpreter for
the hearing but one never showed up. Interpreters are not required by law, White
said.

"There can be only one reason why his attorney wanted an interpreter," White
argued in the court documents. "He had doubts the defendant understood English
sufficiently to understand what was going on."

White also pointed out that at a May hearing, Kenyon testified that he had no
idea his client would be deported and so had not advised Sultan of it. But that
statement contradicts one Kenyon made in court in November 199 3, White said.
Kenyon, now a public defender lawyer who handles death-penalty cases, could not
be reached Wednesday.

Cohen ruled that Sultan and Kenyon appeared to know in 1993 that deportation
could result from the guilty plea. The transcript also details instances in
which the judge explained the pleading process to Sultan and told him to raise
questions if he had them.

"There is no reason to conclude that (Sultan's) attorney failed to meet his
professional responsibility," Cohen added.

The court was required by law to advise Sultan of the direct impact of pleading
guilty but not of an indirect impact, such as deportation, Cohen said.

LOAD-DATE: June 11, 1998

LANGUAGE: English

                  Copyright 1998 St. Louis Post-Dispatch, Inc.


                              248 of 457 DOCUMENTS

                       St. Louis Post-Dispatch (Missouri)

                   June 21, 1998, Sunday, THREE STAR EDITION

2 AMERICANS ARE PROVIDING CHEMICAL PELLETS USED IN STERILIZATION TO THIRD;
WORLD

BYLINE: The Associated Press

SECTION: NEWS, Pg. A13

LENGTH: 409 words

DATELINE: NEW YORK


Two Americans hoping to curb population growth and limit U.S. immigration have
distributed chemical pellets used in the irreversible sterilizations of more
than 100,000 women in poor countries, The Wall Street Journal reported Friday.

Quinacrine sterilizations are not permitted in the United States because of
questions about their safety and effectiveness, including a possible cancer
risk. Nearly all major family planning organizations, many foreign governments
and the World Health Organization oppose their use.

But, the newspaper said, that hasn't stopped Stephen D. Mumford of Chapel Hill,
N.C., and contraceptive researcher Dr. Elton Kessel, who are the only
distributors of quinacrine pellets in the world.

Operating their not-for-profit organization on a tiny budget, Mumford, 55, and
Kessel, 79, pay for quinacrine's manufacture in Switzerland, arrange for its
free distribution in about 20 countries and mobilize a network of doctors,
nurses and midwives to administer it.

Mumford, who calls his organization the Center for Research on Population and
Security, believes quinacrine is a means of curbing world population and
reducing the potential number of immigrants to the United States from developing
nations. He relies in part on anti-immigrant forces in the United States for
financial backing, the Journal said.

Their primary goal, he said, is to improve the lives and protect the health of
Third World women, almost 600,000 of whom die each year from pregnancy-related
complications. The pellets have been used to sterilize more than 100,000 women
in poor countries over the past decade, according to the report.

Quinacrine (pronounced KWIN-a-krin) is inserted directly into the uterus and
prevents pregnancy by scarring the fallopian tubes. No anest hesia is used, and
the procedure is painful; some women faint. For many, short-term side effects
include abnormal menstrual bleeding, backaches, fever, lower abdominal pain and
headaches, according to the report.

Some health-care workers in poor countries, desperate for cheap,
easy-to-administer birth control, see the two Americans as saviors and their
critics as meddlers, the Journal said.

But Adrienne Germain, president of the International Women's Health Coalition in
New York, said that quinacrine's inexpensiveness, portability and simplicity
make it "highly open to abuse."

"There is no murky middle," she said. "It shouldn't be used, period."

LOAD-DATE: June 22, 1998

LANGUAGE: English

                  Copyright 1998 St. Louis Post-Dispatch, Inc.


                              249 of 457 DOCUMENTS

                       St. Louis Post-Dispatch (Missouri)

                   July 26, 1998, Sunday, THREE STAR EDITION

FOR SOME MEXICAN IMMIGRANTS, HEAT OVERCOMES HOPE FOR NEW LIFE;
ON TEXAS FRONTIER, FEARED BORDER PATROL CAN BECOME A SAVIOR

BYLINE: THE ASSOCIATED PRESS

SECTION: NEWS, Pg. A3

LENGTH: 1006 words

DATELINE: LAREDO, TEXAS


His throat as dry as dirt after walking all morning across the South Texas
desert, Juan Antonio Alvarado Morales knelt beside a shrunken pond, its water
stagnant and green.

The rotting carcass of a wild hog lay on the chalky bank. Juan tried to ignore
it. He was thirsty. And this was water, no matter how putrid. He drank deeply.

The temperature quickly passed 100. The heat shriveled the buds of wildflowers
and baked the red earth until it cracked. Dust kicked up with Juan's every step,
caking his throat. He took another swig of the murky water.

Soon, he was vomiting. His head pounded and his legs cramped, but he trudged on,
through miles of prickly chaparral. He began to lag behind.

"Give me a chance to rest!" the 35-year-old implored his companions.

"No, you have to keep up!" the guide shouted back.

The group struggled on to a livestock tank half-filled with water. As in the
pond hours earlier, the water was green. Again, the men drank it. But this time,
Juan couldn't go on.

"Are you going to get up and walk," the guide yelled, "or stay here and die?"

Juan, who had paid $ 400 to make this trip across the desolate border country,
who had promised his wife and two children he would find work here and afford
them a better life, heard himself reply: "I don't care anymore."

He lay there beside the trough and watched the men disappear.

They left him for dead, but Juan would not die.

Not enough water

The oven of South Texas in summer is never a place for the weak - but especially
this year.

Along the border, the temperature has been soaring past 100 since spring. People
can tolerate the heat. It's the lack of water that's kill ing them. Winter was
unusually dry and there hasn't been a downpour near Laredo in months. The severe
drought has left the ponds and livestock tanks shallow and brackish.

So far, ranchers and border patrol agents have found 50 bodies of illegal
immigrants in Texas.

Often bodies are found where they fell.

Earlier this month, a 13-year-old boy traveling with a group of immigrants near
Falfurrias, Texas, was too dehydrated to keep up. One cousin remained at his
side while another found a windmill and spelled out a large "S.O.S." on the
ground with mesquite branches. No one saw the appeal for help. By the time the
cousin reached the highway two days later, the boy was dead.

"It's becoming routine. The day after we had the boy, we found another one on
the ranch dehydrated and all alone," said Raul Arriola, a Border Patrol agent in
Falfurrias, who carries a first-aid kit and canteens of water with him. "Our job
is to apprehend them because they violate the law, but they're still human and
deserve medical attention. Our priority is to find them alive."

A week ago, 13 young Mexican men were found alive, stifling in a locked railroad
boxcar near San Antonio. Their water bottles were empty.

Most of the immigrants aren't prepared for the rough conditions. Many wear dark
clothing, believing they will better elude authorities at night. But light
colors are cooler. They bring more food than water, when water is what they
need. Some immigrants have learned survival tricks and even carry chlorine
tablets to disinfect water along the way.

Nothing to drink, unable to eat

Juan didn't have any chlorine tablets. But his thirst tormented him. And he kept
dipping into the pool to quench it.

He considered building a campfire as a distress signal, but he didn't have the
strength. He carried cans of beans, chilis and corn, but he had no appetite. He
finally mustered the energy to climb into the tepid tank and dunk himself. He
hoped the fever would leave him, but it didn't.

He dragged himself out of the water and settled in the meager shade of a
mesquite, more a bush than a tree. He lay down and closed his eyes.

He prayed that Border Patrol agents - whom he had always feared as captors -
would now become his saviors.

It was still light when he was startled awake by a group of six men, illegal
immigrants like himself who stopped to drink.

Juan knew one of them. His name was Noel. They had worked together as welders at
a textile factory in his hometown of Monclova in northern Mexico.

"Come on," Noel urged him. "Why don't you walk? If you stay here, you'll die.
I'll help you."

But Juan's legs were numb. He simply couldn't walk.

This time, Juan's companions didn't leave. Noel and another man lifted him from
the dusty earth. Draping Juan's arms over their shoulders, they dragged him
north.

"It's not much longer to the highway," Noel said.

They walked into the night, over hills and dry riverbeds, through brush and
prickly pear cactus laden with plump red fruit. But Juan, a slightly built man,
couldn't eat a bite. He was still vomiting.

The next day, they started again. At times, Noel alone would carry Juan on his
back. A car had waited ahead for the six men now traveling together. But Juan
had slowed them down. They missed their ride.

Another night and another day passed. The sun beat down. Temperatures rose: 107,
108, 110.

"I can't stand it anymore," Juan whispered.

He feared he would never see hiw wife, Minerva, and their children again.

That afternoon, he and the others finally made it to Highway 83, some 30 miles
north of their crossing point and about 35 miles northwest of Laredo.

Rancher Lynn Clapp was driving by when he saw the men flagging him down.

"When you see them in the middle of the road, you know they're desperate," Clapp
said. He called the Border Patrol.

Agent Rudolfo Curiel was first to stop.

Curiel offered Juan water and placed an ice pack on his head. An ambulance took
him to a hospital where he was treated for severe dehydration and kidney
failure.

From his hospital bed Wednesday, Juan recounted his story.

"You get a lot of ambition. You get somewhat greedy and you come over," he said
in a soft voice. "I might earn just a little in Mexico, but it's better to stay
over there."

LOAD-DATE: July 26, 1998

LANGUAGE: English

GRAPHIC: PHOTO THE ASSOCIATED PRESS Photo - Juan Antonio Alvarado Morales is
helped up by another Mexican national after the two were found by the U.S.
Border Patrol near Laredo, Texas. So far, ranchers and border patrol agents have
found 50 bodies of illegal immigrants in Texas.

                  Copyright 1998 St. Louis Post-Dispatch, Inc.


                              250 of 457 DOCUMENTS

                       St. Louis Post-Dispatch (Missouri)

               August 5, 1998, Wednesday, FIVE STAR LIFT EDITION

GIRL'S KILLING RAISES TENSION FOR IMMIGRANTS WHO KNOW FEAR;
A TRANSPLANTED COMMUNITY DEALS WITH A NEW THREAT;
WAS ONE WAR TRADED FOR ANOTHER?

BYLINE: Victor Volland; Of The Post-Dispatch

SECTION: NEWS, Pg. A6

LENGTH: 600 words


A united and fearful St. Louis Bosnian community, the fastest growing ethnic
group in the area, buried one of its children Tuesday, 11-year-old murder victim
Selma Ducanovic.

"People are pretty scared now" because of the murder, said Vanessa Ramic, a
caseworker for the Bosnian community, who emigrated here a year and a half ago.

"They won't let their kids play outside any more," Ramic said. "They lock their
doors and are afraid to walk the street at night. This is so contrary to the way
they lived in Bosnia before the war. It's a real culture shock for many of
them."

The young immigrant community has grown tenfold since 1993, the year that marked
the end of the bloody civil war in Bosnia. Since then, it has become one of the
largest in the country.

The mostly Muslim - but distinctly European and Slavic - people have followed
the path of earlier immigrant groups. They've concentrated in the Bevo area and
adjacent neighborhoods of south St. Louis, enriching them with restaurants,
stores, coffeehouses and other gathering places.

The International Institute of Metropolitan St. Louis, the main resettlement
agency for generations of immigrants, estimates the community's numbers at 8,000
including 7,000 Muslims.

Dijana Groth, who edits a national bimonthly magazine, Plima, for the community,
says the population has grown to well over 10,000 with the arrival of refugees
from New York, San Diego, Texas and other places.

A strong economy, cheaper housing and plenty of available jobs are what brought
the influx over the last several years, said Suzanne LeLaurin, director of
social work at the International Institute.

"And when they get here, they stay here," LeLaurin said.

As with earlier immigrant groups, those already here lead the way for r elatives
and friends, she said.

In the early 1990s, fewer than 1,000 Bosnians lived in St. Louis, which has long
had sizable Croatian and Serbian communities. Bosnian immigrants now arrive here
at a rate of 40 to 60 a week, officials said.

Such a large group of new arrivals presents a particularly vulnerable target for
crime.

"They are most vulnerable when they first arrive because they know little or no
English," LeLaurin said. "But even after they attain some proficiency, they
simply don't know how to work the system."

The International Institute has offered instruction on safety and crime
protection along with its English language classes and job-finding services. The
institute also provides advice on personal safety, all translated into the
Bosnian and Serbo-Croat languages, she said.

The materials provide specific advice and information on:

* How to get help by dialing 911.

* Keeping doors and windows locked and property secure.

* Being wary of lone strangers.

Many of the Bosnian immigrants grew up in small towns and villages and are
unprepared for criminal predators, said the caseworker, Ramic.

Some things are problematic. For instance after living so long under an
oppressive government, the immigrants can be intimidated by authority and anyone
in uniform. That may be magnified now, because police say the suspect in the
Selma Ducanovic case had posed as a policeman to gain entrance into a home in a
predominantly Bosnian neighborhood.

There is also a mood of bitterness in the Bosnian community, Ramic said.

"People had thought they were coming to a place where they would be safe and
could rebuild their lives in peace. 'How could something like this happen in
America?' they ask.

"But they are learning. Balkan people are tough."

LOAD-DATE: August 5, 1998

LANGUAGE: English

                  Copyright 1998 St. Louis Post-Dispatch, Inc.


                              251 of 457 DOCUMENTS

                       St. Louis Post-Dispatch (Missouri)

                 August 7, 1998, Friday, FIVE STAR LIFT EDITION

FESTIVAL GROUP GIVES $ 250,000 FOR A SHOWCASE OF GERMAN FLORA;
BOTANICAL GARDEN PROJECT WILL GET STARTED THIS FALL;
BUST OF IMMIGRANT IS PLANNED

BYLINE: Deborah Peterson; Of The Post-Dispatch

SECTION: METRO, Pg. B1

LENGTH: 404 words


A living tribute to St. Louis' German heritage will bloom at the Missouri
Botanical Garden with the help of a $ 250,000 gift by the Strassenfest Corp.

Beginning this fall, a new Strassenfest German Garden will join the Japanese,
Chinese, Mediterranean and English and Victorian gardens already there.

Add to those outdoor gardens the indoor Climatron - with its lush tropical rain
forest plantings, Amazon River waterlilies, and thousands of bulbs from Holland
- and the Botanical Garden paints a colorful and fragrant picture of the world.

"It's like a real international day when you come here," said Delle Willett, a
spokeswoman for the garden.

Michael Wendl, president of the corporation, said Strassenfest Corp., the
nonprofit entity that coordinates the annual German street festival, has already
provided $ 150,000 of the donation for the new 1,600-square-foot garden.

Wendl's announcement comes just before the 37th annual Strassenfest, opening
today in downtown St. Louis at Tucker Boulevard and Market Street. The festival
will run from 11 a.m. to 10 p.m. today and Saturday, and from 11 a.m. to 6 p.m.
on Sunday.

Willett said work on the garden would begin in the fall.

It will feature a bust of Dr. George Engelmann, a German immigrant and physician
who came to the St. Louis area in the 1830s. Engelmann was interested in botany
and advised the garden's founder, Henry Shaw, to include a scientific division
at the Botanical Garden.

Now the Botanical Garden is a world leader in discovering and sharing botanical
knowledge.

Paul Granlund, a former Washington University teacher and now
sculptor-in-residence at Gustavus Adolphus College in St. Peter, Minn., will
create the bust of Engelmann.

The garden will reflect the style of plantings that Germans brought to the
United States at the dawn of the century. Some of the plantings were developed
by Karl Foerster, a turn-of-the-century plant breeder, nurseryman and author.

"The Germans . . . initiated a style that relies heavily on broad sweeps of
herbaceous perennials, ferns and grasses," Willett said.

Among the plantings will be tufted hair grasses, Japanese anemones, columbines,
gingers, bee balms, cardinal flowers and hardy geraniums, all well-suited for
the St. Louis climate.

At 1,600-square-feet, the garden will be similar in size to the Victorian
Garden, which is dwarfed by the 14-acre Japanese Garden.

LOAD-DATE: August 8, 1998

LANGUAGE: English

GRAPHIC: PHOTO, MAP (1) Photo by Kevin Manning / Post-Dispatch - Roll out the
barrels for the Strassenfest - Mark Helmsing checks the Anheuser-Busch Cos. Beer
School, part of the Strassenfest, which begins today and runs through Sunday
near Tucker Boulevard and Market Street downtown. The festival organization
announced plans Thursday for a German garden featuring ferns and grasses.
 (* Note: This photo had the following caption in the THREE STAR Edition :
 Roll out the barrels for the Strassenfest - Mark Helmsing checks the
Anheuser-Busch Cos. Beer School, part of the Strassenfest, which begins today
and runs through Sunday near Tucker Boulevard and Market Street downtown. The
festival organization announced plans Thursday for a German garden featuring
ferns and grasses. The event offers bratwurst, beer, German bands, rides, a
children's stage and more.)
 (2) Map by Post-Dispatch - Site of new garden
 (Area bounded by Interstate 44, Tower Grove, Alfred, and Magnolia Streets.)

                  Copyright 1998 St. Louis Post-Dispatch, Inc.


                              252 of 457 DOCUMENTS

                       St. Louis Post-Dispatch (Missouri)

                 August 9, 1998, Sunday, FIVE STAR LIFT EDITION

SAINT JOHN: 'MOST IRISH CITY IN CANADA'

BYLINE: Boston Globe

SECTION: TRAVEL & LEISURE, Pg. T7

LENGTH: 410 words


They came by the thousands, some out of loyalty, some out of hunger, and some
simply to better themselves. Some found tragedy, but others found hope and
success.

They were the Irish. And they came to Saint John, New Brunswick.

The immigration began around 1783 with the arrival of Irish-American Loyalists -
those who didn't want to break away from the Crown. In 1815, after the
Napoleonic wars, thousands of servicemen and Irish workers employed in the
British Isles found their way to Saint John on returning timber ships that
offered cheap fares.

The influx continued moderately but steadily until 1845-1854, when it leaped
because of Ireland's potato famine. Immigrants got off the boats at Partridge
Island, North America's first quarantine station and now a national historic
site. But death awaited many: The island has six graveyards where a total of
2,000 immigrants are buried. All were victims of the 1847 typhus epidemic that
spread aboard the "coffin ships" bringing immigrants to North America and swept
the island. Of the eight doctors who worked with the sick, seven were Irish. And
one of them, Dr. James Collins, originally from County Cork, died from the
typhus just a month after he arrived on the island.

The immigrants and the doctor were not forgotten, though. In 1927, two survivors
unveiled a 20-foot Celtic cross on the island in the victims' memory. It still
stands today, as does a smaller replica on Prince William Street in downtown
Saint John. (A Celtic cross also stands on Quebec's Gros Ile, where another
story of death from typhus can be told.)

But "the Irish did more than just die on Partridge Island," says Dr. Danny Britt
of the Irish Canadian Cultural Association. For example, after the Great Fire of
1877, hard-working Irish tradesmen and craftsmen did most of the rebuilding of
the city.

Today, the Celtic spirit flourishes, and Saint John proclaims itself the most
Irish city in Canada. Every March, there is a St. Patrick's Festival Week, with
music, plays, dinners and a seven-foot shamrock, said to be the largest in the
nation.

For those who want to trace their roots or commemorate their heritage, there are
the Diocesan Archives, the St. John Free Public Library, the New Brunswick
Museum Archives, St. Mary's Cemetery (where 16,000 people of Irish descent are
buried), and, of course, Partridge Island.

Saint John may be a long way from Tipperary, but it's Irish indeed.

LOAD-DATE: August 9, 1998

LANGUAGE: English

                  Copyright 1998 St. Louis Post-Dispatch, Inc.


                              253 of 457 DOCUMENTS

                       St. Louis Post-Dispatch (Missouri)

                August 10, 1998, Monday, FIVE STAR LIFT EDITION

HELPING IMMIGRANTS WOMAN TO WOMAN

BYLINE: Jody Williams

SECTION: EDITORIAL, Pg. B7, COMMENTARY COLUMN

LENGTH: 706 words


On Tuesdays and thursdays, Eleanor leaves her home in West County and drives to
south St. Louis. She parks in front of an apartment building near Morganford,
aware that she's being watched through curtained windows. She smiles to herself,
assured that the "silent welcoming committee" is checking her out.

Briefcase in hand, Eleanor walks to an apartment and is about to knock when the
door opens wide to a clean but sparsely furnished living room. With a small baby
in one arm and a toddler hanging tightly onto the other, the beaming hostess
peaks slowly and precisely: "Good morning, teacher. How are you? Please come
in!"

Eleanor is a volunteer in a nonprofit educational organization whose goal is to
integrate immigrant and refugee women into their new culture. First-generation
immigrant and refugee women in St. Louis city are matched with experienced women
teachers who work one-on-one in the security of the women's homes to:

* Strengthen their use of the English language.

* Provide opportunities for practical living skills and cultural integration.

Her student, a native of Bosnia, came to St. Louis several months ago with
little more than happy memories of a prosperous life in a familiar country and
nightmarish memories of a homeland now ravaged by hatred and violence.

The Immigrant and Refugee Women's Program, the only one of its kind in the St.
Louis area, evolved three years ago out of discussions between a small group of
Catholic sisters and Vietnamese immigrant women. With the help of an
interpreter, the nuns confirmed their suspicions: Formal schooling for these
women was out of the question.

While excellent services were available for men to learn English, to assimilate
the culture and to get jobs, nothing similar was available for their wives. Some
women may be restricted from taking advantage of outside programs by cultural
mores. While the immigrants' children go to school and learn English and the
culture, wives, mothers and grandmothers stay home, often caring for the smaller
children. Because many of these women are isolated and alone, their
self-confidence diminishes and their new culture becomes more and more foreign
to them.

The Catholic nuns began by teaching Vietnamese women in their homes and adapted
as the immigrant population changed. Today 32 women from Bosnia, Somalia,
Kurdistan and Vietnam are being taught in their homes by three nuns and five lay
women. More than 80 women have participated in the program since 1995.

The program operates under the auspices of the School Sisters of Notre Dame, in
conjunction with the Refugee Support Program at St. Pius V Church in St. Louis.
It's sustained solely by individual contributions and grants from organizations
and it is not affiliated with any religion. All students in the program are
legal residents.

Word of the program has spread to such an extent that program coordinator,
Sister Elise Silvestri says she would welcome at least 30 additional teachers
today. The program is limited only by the number of teachers willing to make a
one-year commitment to work with one student one-to-two hours a week.

Teachers are given instructional materials and inservice workshops were
volunteers share experiences and teaching methods. Volunteers are reimbursed for
travel and miscellaneous expenses.

"It's hard to say where this program is headed," Sister Elise admits, "but we
know we're providing something very valuable here. I guess that's pretty much
the way the women who started most religious congregations many, many years ago
must have felt. They just saw a need - whether it was caring for the sick or
teaching children or finding housing for poor people and abandoned children or
whatever - and they did what it took to meet that need," she explained.

Sister Elise says the volunteer teachers in the program see great value not only
for the women they're teaching but for their families and for the community at
large. "We also know that on a personal level we receive a great deal from
working with women of other cultures," she says. "It would be wonderful to share
this program with other volunteer teachers who could really make a difference in
these women's lives," she adds.

LOAD-DATE: August 10, 1998

LANGUAGE: English

                  Copyright 1998 St. Louis Post-Dispatch, Inc.


                              254 of 457 DOCUMENTS

                       St. Louis Post-Dispatch (Missouri)

                August 23, 1998, Sunday, FIVE STAR LIFT EDITION

MORRISONS' STORY GOES NATIONAL ON MONDAY

BYLINE: Gail Pennington; Post-Dispatch Television Critic

SECTION: EVERYDAY MAGAZINE, Pg. D3

LENGTH: 1224 words


* Francie Broderick and Matt Morrison have long fought his deportation back to
Ireland, and CBS is giving an update.

Francie Broderick of University City hasn't completely stopped worrying about
whether her husband, Matt Morrison, will again face deportation to Northern
Ireland. His case remains in official limbo.

But Broderick has relaxed enough to wonder whether her hair looks all right in a
CBS News documentary that follows her long-running battle to keep her family
together in the United States.

"Before Your Eyes: Don't Take My Daddy," airing at 9 p.m. Monday on Channel 4,
tells the stories of three men who served time in prison for crimes - or, from
their perspective, acts of war - linked to the Irish Republican Army. In
Morrison's case, as a 19-year-old IRA foot soldier, he fired a gun at a British
policeman and missed. He was jailed for 10 years.

Morrison came to the United States in 1986, married Broderick and fathered two
kids, but he lived essentially underground, having checked "no" on his
tourist-visa application when asked if he'd ever been convicted of a crime. In
1993, when he applied for permanent residency and admitted his past, the
Immigration and Naturalization Service began deportation proceedings, citing
tough laws governing terrorist activity.

Morrison rejects the "terrorist" label. "As far as we were concerned, we were
engaging the enemy in war," he says in the documentary.

But the INS was inflexible, and 2 1/2 years ago, when the "Before Your Eyes"
team began working on the program, it seemed almost certain that Morrison would
be deported, along with Noel Gaynor and Gabe Megahey, the two other men
profiled.

The documentary, in fact, grew out of that dire situation, although in the
beginning Morrison wasn't even a part of it.

The program first intended to tell the story of "a family wrenched apart," says
executive producer Mary Murphy. Focusing solely on New Yorker Gabe Megahey, his
wife, Patricia, and their two daughters, the program would have looked at what
happened to the family as the father was forced to return to Northern Ireland.

As the story changed, however, so did the documentary, part of an award-winning
series that promises to let viewers "experience events as they happen from
beginning to end."

Instead of passively waiting for their fate to be determined, the Megaheys and
other families, including the Gaynors and Morrisons, banded together to raise
money, build support for their cause and lobby with the government (up to and
including President Bill Clinton) against the deportations.

A year ago, Murphy reviewed all the tape already in hand and decided that,
despite the unexpected turns, "this was still an incredibly interesting story,
bringing up a lot of good issues." Her new focus would be the three wives,
including Broderick, who had impressed Murphy with her passion.

In the following months, Murphy spent a lot of time in St. Louis, getting to
know the Morrisons and interviewing them in their home in University City.
Camera crews and other producers sometimes seemed to fill the house to bursting,
Broderick recalls - "and it's not all that big anyway."

"Everyone was so nice, all the crew members were as nice as could be, but it was
still really awkward" having cameras recording such a stressful time, she says.

In addition to spending "60 or 70 hours" with the Morrisons, Broderick
estimates, the producers left a camera with the family to let them capture any
big moments that came up unexpectedly. A home-video scene of son Matthew and
daughter Katie on the first day of school last fall even made it into the
program.

Matthew, now 10 and going into the fifth grade, connected with Murphy, and "they
had lots of good conversations," Broderick says. "He is at an age where he has
thought about this a bit." Matthew is heard talking about his family (even
disclosing how old his mother is, to her chagrin) and expl aining about the IRA
incident, and is also seen playing soccer on his Delmar-Harvard school team,
coached by Dad.

Mary Kathleen, called Katie, now 7, had a rougher time, however. After a planned
sleep-over was canceled one weekend, she never forgave the "Before Your Eyes"
crew, her mother recalls.

"Katie wanted nothing to do with them," Broderick says, expressing no surprise
that her daughter doesn't speak to the camera. "One day she came downstairs, and
she had put a cardboard box on her head and drawn in a screen and knobs like a
TV set. She handed me a piece of paper to be the remote control, and said if I
wanted to talk to her I'd have to use it. That pretty much summed up her
reaction to the whole thing."

Murphy says she found the Morrisons "a lovely family," adding that "it was "hard
to ask them for access during such a difficult time, but they were such good
sports, and so honest."

Although the story emerged as "three families fighting a government," Murphy was
concerned that "opposing viewpoints be represented," she says. Those interviewed
on the other side include the head of the INS, the widow of a policeman killed
by the IRA, and the British sergeant who was shot at in the incident for which
Morrison was jailed.

When the families learned about that counterpoint, "some of them got nervous
about the way we might be portrayed," Broderick says. "Matt and I just felt that
as long as our side was represented, we wanted it to be fair."

Roma Downey of "Touched by an Angel" was recruited to narrate the program. Like
Morrison, Downey was born in Derry (or Londonderry, as the British know it); "as
a child," she says in the narrative, "I often could not sleep because there was
gunfire in the streets." In high school, working in a shoe store, she met the
IRA face to face. "They came in, wearing their masks, and told us to get out,
that they'd planted a wee bomb," Downey recalled earlier this summer. "So we
left, and the shop blew up. No one was hurt, but I really needed that job."

Thus, the subject of the program "is very dear to my heart," Downey says. While
she hopes the documentary will help Americans better understand the complicated
situation in Northern Ireland, Downey also hopes it will also foster
understanding of cost to families, she says.

Last December, as part of the peace process in Northern Ireland, the
deportations of Morrison and the others were suspended. Technically, however,
the orders could still be reinstated, and the recent terrorist bombing by
hard-liners opposed to the peace accord was unsettling as well as sad, Broderick
says.

"But I have to believe everyone wants peace and won't let this fall apart." And
personally, she says, "I would find it so hard to take up the campaign again. I
don't know if I could do it."

Morrison, who attended nursing school while his future was up in the air, is now
a nurse in the emergency room at Children's Hospital. He and Broderick are
getting a small group of family members and close friends together to watch the
documentary Monday night.

Meanwhile, Broderick is contemplating how her hair might look on TV. "It was so
short then," she says. "My friends always joke that you can tell how much stress
I'm under by the length of my hair."

Now, it's grown out enough that she can twist it up in back - a sure sign that
feeling hopeful is easier than it used to be.

LOAD-DATE: August 23, 1998

LANGUAGE: English

GRAPHIC: PHOTO Photo by SCOTT DINE/POST-DISPATCH - Matt Morrison with wife
Francie Broderick and children Matthew and Mary Kate in 1995. "Before Your Eyes:
Don't Take My Daddy" details their story.

                  Copyright 1998 St. Louis Post-Dispatch, Inc.


                              255 of 457 DOCUMENTS

                       St. Louis Post-Dispatch (Missouri)

               September 20, 1998, Sunday, FIVE STAR LIFT EDITION

'BECKONING TORCH' OFFERS REALISTIC CHARACTERIZATIONS

BYLINE: Judith Newmark; Post-Dispatch Theater Critic

SECTION: EVERYDAY MAGAZINE, Pg. C4

LENGTH: 709 words


Grandparents around St. Louis have a fine opportunity for the next few weeks. If
they take their grandchildren to "The Beckoning Torch: The Immigrants of Ellis
Island," they not only will have fun together seeing a play, they will have a
wonderful taking-off point for rich conversations about their own family
histories.

"Torch" opens the 1998-99 season at Historyonics, the Missouri Historical
Society's theater-in-residence. Like all Historyonics' productions, it focuses
on real events in the authentic language of people who were there. Larry
Roberson who created this work, drew on the extensive oral histories that have
been recorded with people who came through Ellis Island in their search for a
better life in America.

"Torch" concentrates on an Italian girl (Susie Wall), a Jewish sister and
brother from Poland (Monica Dickhens and John Pierson) and an Irishman (Tom
Murray). Roberson has done a fine job of balancing their personal stories -
alternately touching and funny and frightening - with easy-t o-follow
explanations of U.S. immigration policies, drawn from speeches and government
records.

Murray is particularly strong as the Irishman, whether he's recalling the
discomforts of impoverished travel or the joy of his first hot dog. He has a
good accent, too. The others are not so sure. Wall's Italian inflection wavers
oddly, and Dickhens and Pierson are apparently portraying the only Eastern
European Jews in history capable of pronouncing the English sounds "w" and "th."

But they make up for these lapses with their understated delivery of the
immigrants' humiliations (immodest physical inspections, terrible bathing
conditions) and their uninhibited depiction of their enthusiasm for their new
country. Their chorus of "I'm a Yankee Doodle Dandy" is a winner. It's one of
many songs that add to the play's emotional texture, thanks musical director Tom
Clear and to the charming performer Lydia Ruffin, who sings and plays guitar.

Director Lee Patton Chiles keeps things moving, and does a particularly good job
at evoking crowded conditions - no mean feat with only five people on a nearly
empty stage. When the other actors shove Wall, a small woman, from one to
another, you can sense the confusion and helplessness an immigrant girl with no
English could have felt. This physical staging is even more impressive
considering that, as at all Historyonics' productions, the actors have their
scripts in hand.

There are some gaps. All the characters are white Europeans, who may have
predominated at Ellis Island but do not exactly constitute the whole range of
the American immigrant experience. (The Irishman is even Jewish, like the
brother and sister.)

They also all arrived in the 1920s, the era of most of the immigrants who
survived to give oral histories. This may have been unavoidable but it leaves
you very curious about those who came before, and also about Elizabeth
Krausnick's costumes, which suggest earlier times. These poor people may not
have had the latest styles, but that doesn't mean they wore their grandparents'
clothes. On the other hand, Krausnick's folkloric creations provide the sole
visual pleasure in this show, which looks bare even by Historyonics' simple
standards.

But none of that takes away from the real point of "Torch," treasured pe rsonal
stories. Many families have stories like those of their own, and a visit to this
production could be a good way to start telling them. The show is well-suited to
kids in high school, middle-school and in many cases the upper elementary grades
(and to adults, of course).

If your grandchildren are younger than that, Historyonics' has another show,
"Coming to St. Louis: An Immigrants' Tale" that will be presented with "Ragtime
to Rock 'n' Roll: African American Music" in its Family Theatre Weekend Series.
That performance will be Oct. 18 at 2:30 p.m. in the same theater, and is free
of charge.

*** 'The Beckoning Torch:'

Where: Historyonics, Missouri Historical Society Library Theatre, 225 South
Skinker Boulevard

When: Through Oct. 4. Performances at 8 p.m. Fridays and Saturdays, 2:30 p.m.
Sundays

How much: $ 14 general admission, $ 12 for students and older adults

More info: 746-4445

LOAD-DATE: September 21, 1998

LANGUAGE: English

                  Copyright 1998 St. Louis Post-Dispatch, Inc.


                              256 of 457 DOCUMENTS

                       St. Louis Post-Dispatch (Missouri)

                  October 23, 1998, Friday, THREE STAR EDITION

SOVIET ASYLUM SEEKERS POSE AS PERSECUTED JEWS

BYLINE: The Associated Press

SECTION: NEWS, Pg. A7

LENGTH: 179 words

DATELINE: CHICAGO


A score of people from the former Soviet Union, seeking political asylum in the
United States, told U.S. officials that their businesses had been bombed and
friends and relatives killed, all because they were Jewish.

But the immigrants weren't Jewish and weren't persecuted.

Their stories were fabrications woven with the help of one man, Victor Voinenko,
the federal government says.

On Wednesday, Voinenko, 34, a Russian-language translator from Ukraine, was
charged with making false statements to the government.

The government said that in exchange for cash, he helped the immigrants pose as
persecuted Jews so they could gain asylum in the United States. He is accused of
accepting almost $ 13,000 from the 23 asylum seekers in a scheme that ran from
1993 to 1997.

Voinenko's lawyer, Eugene Steingold, said he expected his client to plead guilty
to one count of making a false statement.

The government did not charge any of the asylum seekers, although authorities
said the immigrants knew Voinenko was submitting fraudulent asylum requests.

LOAD-DATE: October 23, 1998

LANGUAGE: English

                  Copyright 1998 St. Louis Post-Dispatch, Inc.


                              257 of 457 DOCUMENTS

                       St. Louis Post-Dispatch (Missouri)

              November 4, 1998, Wednesday, FIVE STAR LIFT EDITION

NATION

BYLINE: From News Services

SECTION: NEWS, Pg. A8, NATION BRIEFS COLUMN

LENGTH: 777 words



Illinois retiree who was Nazi guard is ordered deported

A federal immigration judge has ordered the deportation of a former Nazi guard
who helped massacre Jews during World War II, the Justice Department said
Tuesday. It said Bronislaw Hajda, 74, a retired factory worker in Schiller Park,
Ill., outside Chicago, was ordered deported to Poland, where he was born, or to
Germany, the country from which he immigrated to the United States. The judge
found that as a Nazi, Hajda served at a training camp in Trawnicki and at a
labor camp in Treblinka, where he took part in the mass execution of hundreds of
Jewish prisoners on July 23, 1944. The prisoners were shot by camp guards in a
pit.

Postal Service wants to raise international mail rates

The Postal Service said Tuesday that it wants to increase rates 3.3 percent on
much international mail starting in July. However, the agency said the cost of
sending a letter to a foreign country would remain at 60 cents for the first
half-ounce for most of the world. Only for Canada is an increase in the cost of
letters expected, the agency said, but it did not disclose the planned amount.
Currently, mail to Canada costs 46 cents for the first half-ounce. Rates for
domestic mail already were scheduled to increase on Jan. 10, going to 33 cents
from 32 cents for the first ounce.

McDougal trial is recessed because of mother's surgery

Susan McDougal's embezzlement trial in Santa Monica, Calif., was recessed
Tuesday for half the day because her mother was undergoing surgery. The judge in
the case, Superior Court Judge Leslie Light, talked with two jurors who were
concerned about the length of the trial. The trial began Sept. 7 and had been
expected to end about Oct. 5. McDougal spent her fifth day on the witness stand
answering questions from prosecutor Jeffrey Semow about the methods she used to
enter charges in the computer system at the home of conductor Zubin Mehta and
his wife, Nancy. McDougal allegedly stole $ 150,000 from their accounts while
she was their bookkeeper from 1989 to 1992. McDougal claims she stole nothing,
pai d back charges along the way and was planning to work off what she owed when
she was fired.

Clinton approves standards for shareholder lawsuits

President Bill Clinton on Tuesday signed legislation creating national standards
for class-action shareholder lawsuits. The bill restricts the ability of
investors to file such suits in state courts against companies whose stock
trades on major national exchanges. The issue has pitted West Coast high-tech
companies, which often are targets of such shareholder suits because of the
volatility of their stock prices, against trial lawyers, a key Democratic
constituency. The legislation closes what is perceived to be a loophole in the
1995 Securities Litigation Reform Act, the only law Congress enacted over
Clinton's veto. The 1995 law is aimed at protecting executives from suits if
they make a corporate earnings prediction or similar forecast that proves
erroneous. But supporters of the new measure say that instead of cutting down on
such suits, the 1995 law merely has channeled a flood of frivolous litigation
into state courts.

Protesters demand better services for the disabled

About 200 protesters blocked entrances to the Health and Human Services building
in Washington for several hours Tuesday to demand better services for the
disabled. The demonstration was staged by the Americans Disabled for Attendant
Programs Today - ADAPT. The group is seeking changes in Medicaid that would
allow disabled people to live at home or at community-based facilities rather
than in nursing homes.

National Geographic will be sold at newsstands

For the first time in more than a century, National Geographic magazine will be
sold at newsstands. The National Geographic Society announced Tuesday that,
starting with the November issue, the magazine will be made available at
newsstands in 80 large cities across the country. Single issues will cost $
3.95.

Wisconsin is stopped from banning some abortions

A federal appeals court on Tuesday barred Wisconsin from enforcing its ban on a
type of late-term abortion while a trial on the matter is under way in Madison.
The 3-2 ruling by the 7th U.S. Circuit Court of Appeals in Chicago was a victory
for Planned Parenthood of Wisconsin and six physicians who challenged the new
law. The law approved in April bans so-called "partial-birth abortions" in which
a fetus is partially delivered vaginally and destroyed, then the delivery
completed. Doctors who perform the procedure risk a sentence of life in prison.

LOAD-DATE: November 4, 1998

LANGUAGE: English

                  Copyright 1998 St. Louis Post-Dispatch, Inc.


                              258 of 457 DOCUMENTS

                       St. Louis Post-Dispatch (Missouri)

                November 8, 1998, Sunday, FIVE STAR LIFT EDITION

ELLIS ISLAND TOURISTS REFLECT IMMIGRANTS' DIVERSITY

BYLINE: Naedine Joy Hazell; The Hartford Courant

SECTION: TRAVEL & LEISURE, Pg. T7

LENGTH: 1057 words

DATELINE: NEW YORK HARBOR


*Visitors come from coast to coast to search for traces of their immigrant
relatives.

Ellis Island is more mecca than museum.

Pilgrims arrive by the tens of thousands from North Carolina, Iowa, Indiana,
Ohio, Washington and beyond to search for traces of immigrant relatives who came
from Italy, Russia, Hungary, Austria, Germany, England, the West Indies and
beyond.

Some come looking for a piece of their past.

Some come to honor and admire the courage of those who took part in the largest
migration in the world's history.

Almost everyone scans the Ellis Island Immigration Museum for a touchstone to
their ancestry. Photographs, oral histories and glass cases of memorabilia,
including old passports, equipment used at Ellis Island and clothing, tell the
stories of millions.

"Oh look, that's from Croatia. ... I'll have to tell my husband," says a woman
looking at immigrant clothing in the "Treasures from Home" exhibit. She is there
with her 2-year-old daughter and a friend, and between them they are interested
in relatives from Germany, Croatia, Poland, Greece, Norway, Sweden and Ireland.

Their ancestors might be among the 12 million who were processed at Ellis Island
from 1892 to 1954. If they are, that would make them among the 100 million
Americans who have an ancestor who came through the island.

It is poetic that on any given day the tourists at Ellis Island physically
resemble, in their diversity, the immigrants who pulsed through this three-story
bustling immigration center. The effect is heightened by the main building,
which has been renovated to look as it did earlier this century - an imposing
tiled institution, resembling a large school.

On most days, the main building echoes with field-trip hilarity as visitors trod
the same wide concrete stairs between floors that the immigrants did. Most of
the other buildings remain in their dilapidated state and off-limits to
visitors.

The renovation of the main building in the 1980s was so thorough that it has
obscured any lingering ghosts of the 5,000 to 10,000 ship-weary immigrants who
daily passed through the halls.

"It was like the Department of Motor Vehicles," a park ranger said before a
showing of the 30-minute film about the island experience. "You were put into a
big room and waited long hours to talk to a surly government employee."

And while they waited - anywhere from three to five hours - they prayed that
they would not be among the 2 percent who were detained or barred from entering.
Of the 12 million people who passed through Ellis Island, only about 200,000
were sent back to their home countries.

Detention was a split-second decision, made by doctors or officials stationed in
the Registry Room as the immigrants filed past.

The officials watched for those with handicaps, lice, physical and mental
illnesses. The contagious ill were not allowed entry, being instead remanded to
the island's hospital for treatment.

"It is at once a maternity ward and an insane asylum," said a doctor who
examined thousands during his years on the island. His comments can be heard at
many exhibits via telephone receivers.

More than 3,500 people, including 1,400 children, died on Ellis Island, and 355
babies were born there.

Immigrant ailments ranged from slight injuries to tropical diseases, many
worsened by weeklong to monthlong ship journeys below decks in steerage, later
called third class.

Only the poor were processed at Ellis Island.

The first- and second-class ship passengers were processed by immigration
officials on board their ships and then brought to New York.

Detention at Ellis Island was particularly hard for immigrants, who usually
arrived with little more than one bag of belongings, the $ 25 required by law
and the name of a relative or friend. Many could not speak the language and
feared anyone in an official capacity, since government authorities were rarely
helpful in their home countries.

Martha Knaupp Kohlroser, who arrived from Germany in 1927, recalled the terror
of being separated from her detained father.

"I have a vivid memory of seeing him holding us by the hands through an iron
fence. He was not permitted in the room with us. With tears running down his
cheeks, he asked me (at age 7) to take care of the children as best I could,"
Knaupp Kohlroser says in one of the exhibits.

Although accurate numbers are difficult to come by, the greatest number of
immigrants to pass through Ellis Island came from Italy and Russia, followed by
those from Hungary, Austria, Austria-Hungary, Germany, England, Ireland, Sweden,
Greece, Norway, the Ottoman Empire, Scotland, the West Indies, Poland, Portugal,
France, Denmark, Romania and the Netherlands.

Many came to escape poverty and religious or political oppression. Others wanted
to work and find new opportunities. Many went on to illustrious careers: Isaac
Asimov arrived from Russia in 1923; Bob Hope arrived from England in 1908; Al
Jolson came from Lithuania in 1894; Hyman Rickover came from Russia in 1904;
Rudolph Valentino came from Italy in 1913; Irving Berlin came from Russia in
1893; Golda Meir arrived from Russia in 1906.

Being a National Historic landmark is the latest incarnation for this island,
which was named for its owner, Samuel Ellis, in the 1770s. He sold it to New
York state, which in turn sold it to the federal government in 1808, when it was
transformed into a fort. After the creation of the Immigration Bureau in 1891,
the U.S. immigration station moved to Ellis Island in 1892.

By the time it closed in 1954, it had processed 75 percent of the 16 million
people who came to America from 1892 to 1924.

The museum, which opened in 1990, eventually might be joined by the American
Family Immigration History Center, which is under development. In its first
phase, the center is collecting information on the immigrants who came through
New York.

For information on visiting Ellis Island, call the National Park Service at
(212) 363-3200 or visit the Web site at www.ellisisland.org. The island can be
reached by the Circle Line Statue of Liberty ferry, which leaves from the
Battery in Manhattan and from Liberty State Park in New Jersey. For boat prices
and schedules, call (212) 269-5755. It is open daily, except Christmas, from
9:30 a.m. to 5 p.m.

LOAD-DATE: November 8, 1998

LANGUAGE: English

GRAPHIC: PHOTO (1) Photo by RICH HARTFORD/The Hartford Courant - A huge American
flag changes into a wall of faces as the perspective of the viewer changes at
the Ellis Island Immigration Museum.
 (2) Photo by Richar Hartford/The Hartford Courant - Tourists take in the view
on the ferry to Ellis Island in New York.

                  Copyright 1998 St. Louis Post-Dispatch, Inc.


                              259 of 457 DOCUMENTS

                       St. Louis Post-Dispatch (Missouri)

              November 25, 1998, Wednesday, FIVE STAR LIFT EDITION

PROPOSED FEDERAL RULES FOR DEPORTATION ALARM IMMIGRANTS;
GUIDELINES WOULD SEND SOME BACK TO COUNTRIES HIT BY HURRICANE MITCH

BYLINE: From News Services

SECTION: NEWS, Pg. A1

LENGTH: 315 words

DATELINE: WASHINGTON


President Bill Clinton's administration proposed rules Tuesday that immigrant
advocates say could trigger deportations of thousands of people to
hurricane-ravaged Guatemala and El Salvador. They say the proposal also could
cripple a flow of private money from the United States to disaster-stricken
families.

The guidelines would require that tens of thousands of immigrants from El
Salvador, Guatemala and the former Soviet bloc be deported unless they can prove
that returning home would be an "extreme hardship" for them or their families.

The rules from the Immigration and Naturalization Service are a major setback
for Central American immigrants who had hoped the Clinton administration would
declare deportation a hardship for all of them - particularly in the wake of
Hurricane Mitch.

The new guidelines apply to those who have been living in the United States
since at least 1990, including many Central Americans who fled warfare and
economic troubles. Many since then have sunk roots, buying homes and having
children.

Issuance of the rules marked a setback for immigration advocates. They wanted
the immigration service to give long-term U.S. residents from El Salvador and
Guatemala the same general suspension of deportation that Congress expressly
granted for Cubans and Nicaraguans who also fled civil war or political
oppression.

Now, the advocates say the devastation wrought by Hurricane Mitch makes it even
more critical for the immigration service to allow qualified Salvadorans and
Guatemalans the same chance to remain in the United States.

"This is absolutely the wrong time to begin a massive deportation into the
region," said Raul Yzaguirre, president of the National Council of La Raza.

Equally important, the advocates said, is about $ 3 billion sent each year from
these immigrants living in the United States to their families back home.

LOAD-DATE: July 25, 1999

LANGUAGE: English

                  Copyright 1998 St. Louis Post-Dispatch, Inc.


                              260 of 457 DOCUMENTS

                       St. Louis Post-Dispatch (Missouri)

                November 25, 1998, Wednesday, FIVE STAR EDITION

AT DINNER, IMMIGRANTS CELEBRATE FREEDOM;
HOLIDAY MEAL TEACHES AMERICAN CULTURE, HISTORY

BYLINE: Bill Smith; Of The Post-Dispatch

SECTION: METRO, Pg. B1

LENGTH: 434 words


Edin Sadikovic had never heard the song before. But on Tuesday evening he sang
it as if he had been singing it his entire life.

"This land is your land, this land is my land, from California to the New York
island . . ."

Other voices joined him in cautious English -- voices from Vietnam, Mexico,
China . . .

"From the redwood forest to the Gulf Stream waters, this land was made for you
and me."

Sadikovic said, "It's a simple melody. But it is the words that I like."

"Freedom," said Dung Nguyen, who immigrated here from Vietnam two years ago. "To
me, it means freedom. America means freedom."

The International Institute of Metro St. Louis held its annual Thanksgiving
dinner and celebration on Tuesday, with singing, slices of hot turkey, paper
cups of cranberry sauce and an American melting pot of faces, voices and dreams.


For many, it marked their first Thanksgiving in America.

For Sadikovic, a Bosnian immigrant, it offered a few moments to reflect on his
past and his future.

"At my home, we may not celebrate Thanksgiving like Americans, but we will
celebrate," he said.

Margaret Silver, director of education for the institute, says Thanksgiving is
an opportunity to help new immigrants better understand American culture and
history.

It is a special time for both the staff and the students.

On Tuesday, the walls of the institute were covered with "reflection papers,"
written by institute students.

Some of the writings talked of Thanksgiving blessings:

"I am thankful for the abundant American harvest always available in the
stores," wrote a woman named Minka who arrived here from Bulgaria in March with
her daughter to rejoin a husband and father they had not seen in six years.

"When I first came to class, I was like a deaf person," said a writer named
Minxue from China. "Today I have learned how to go shopping, how to drive, how
to rent a place to stay."

But perhaps the most poignant of the notes taped and tacked to the walls were
those from the newest immigrants, those whose English is so limited they could
not write anything at all, but only draw circles around the pictures of what
they liked best about America.

Some drew pencil circles around pictures depicting people, others drew circles
around drawings of food, still others circled pictures depicting school, job,
music, summer . . .

But whatever else they circled, virtually all of them circled one other picture.
It was the picture of the Statue of Liberty and the American flag with a simple
one-word label beneath the symbols:

"Freedom," it said.

LOAD-DATE: November 25, 1998

LANGUAGE: English

GRAPHIC: PHOTO Color Photo by KAREN ELSHOUT / Post-Dispatch
 International dinner of Thanksgiving - Amina Raof gets a spoonful of green bean
casserole as part of a Thanksgiving at the International Institute of Metro St.
Louis. Raof, who fled Kurdistan with her husband and children, said she is
thankful to be living in peace in the United States.
 (* Note: This appeared as a Photo Only in the FIVE STAR LIFT edition.)

                  Copyright 1998 St. Louis Post-Dispatch, Inc.


                              261 of 457 DOCUMENTS

                       St. Louis Post-Dispatch (Missouri)

              December 10, 1998, Thursday, FIVE STAR LIFT EDITION

WORLD

BYLINE: From News Services

SECTION: NEWS, Pg. A8, WORLD BRIEFS COLUMN

LENGTH: 495 words



ISRAEL

Religious Jews are ruled eligible for draft

Israel's Supreme Court struck down a half-century-old agreement Wednesday that
exempts the most devoutly religious Jews from military service. The ruling would
compel thousands of young men in Jewish semina ries - yeshivas - to drop their
studies for three years and become conscripts. The decision was issued by all 11
judges of the Supreme Court in Jerusalem, including two who are religious, and
it caused a rumble in the major fault line of Israeli society between
ultra-Orthodox and secular Jews. Secular Jews, who constitute a majority in
Israel, said it would correct what they consider a great inequity of Israeli
society.

CANADA

Chinese immigrant smuggling ring is broken up

Canadian police said Wednesday in Toronto that Canadian and U.S.  authorities
have broken up a major criminal ring that smuggled hundreds of Chinese
immigrants into the United States from Canada. The arrests of eight people in
Canada and 23 in the United States over the past few days culminated a 12-month
joint investigation, the Royal Canadian Mounted Police said. Warrants for 10
more arrests have been issued. The operation, dubbed Project Othello, was
conducted jointly by the Mounted Police, Toronto police and Canadian and U.S.
immigration authorities.

SWITZERLAND

Parliament elects first woman to president's post

Parliament elected Interior Minister Ruth Dreifuss, 58, as president on
Wednesday. She is the first woman to hold the office, less than three decades
after Swiss women got the right to vote. Speaking to crowds outside parliament
in Berne, she said: "We have taken up the torch of generations before us. For
dozens and dozens of years we've been fighting for equality between men and
women. Today we have affirmed this equality." As president - a largely
ceremonial post - the Social Democrat will preside over the seven-member Cabinet
next year.

RUSSIA

Icebreaker, Finnish tanker break free after two days A nuclear icebreaker
accompanying a Finnish tanker carrying vital supplies broke through thick ice on
Wednesday after being stuck for two days, officials said. The Sovietsky Soyuz
icebreaker sent out a call Monday for help after the two ships were blocked by
ice 50 to 65 feet thick 110 miles west of the Arctic port of Pevek. They had
sought a helicopter to help find the route to thinner ice, but eventually the
icebreaker was able to get through without assistance, said Nikolai Svityk, a
deputy governor of the Arctic region.

PERSIAN GULF

Six Arab countries agree to maintain their oil cuts Leaders of six Arab nations
in the Persian Gulf decided Wednesday to maintain oil cuts, an attempt to boost
record-low prices and ease pressure on their economies. The Gulf Cooperation
Council agreed to continue until the end of next year the reductions it pledged
in June. The council also urged other oil-rich nations to "take similar steps."



LOAD-DATE: July 24, 1999

LANGUAGE: English

                  Copyright 1998 St. Louis Post-Dispatch, Inc.


                              262 of 457 DOCUMENTS

                       St. Louis Post-Dispatch (Missouri)

                  December 25, 1998, Friday, FIVE STAR EDITION

CHINESE MAN GETS 1 1/2 YEARS IN PRISON FOR BRIBING IMMIGRATION OFFICIALS

BYLINE: The Associated Press

SECTION: NEWS, Pg. C1

LENGTH: 50 words

DATELINE: BUFFALO, N.Y.<


A Chinese man was given 1 1/2 years in federal prison for bribing immigration
officials in a scheme to smuggle as many as 1,000 of his countrymen into the
United States.

Hua Chu Wu, 28, also was fined $ 2,000 Tuesday and ordered to forfeit $ 23,400
he paid in bribes to an undercover agent.

LOAD-DATE: July 4, 1999

LANGUAGE: English

                  Copyright 1998 St. Louis Post-Dispatch, Inc.


                              263 of 457 DOCUMENTS

                       St. Louis Post-Dispatch (Missouri)

               December 29, 1998, Tuesday, FIVE STAR LIFT EDITION

IN IRONIC MOVE, HOLLAND TELLS EXPERT ON PILGRIMS HE MUST LEAVE COUNTRY

BYLINE: The Associated Press

SECTION: NEWS, Pg. A2

LENGTH: 293 words

DATELINE: AMSTERDAM, NETHERLANDS


Nearly four centuries after it took in the Pilgrims, the Netherlands has ordered
America's foremost Pilgrim expert to leave.

Jeremy Bangs, founder of a new Pilgrim museum in the medieval city of Leiden,
has been caught in the Dutch government's immigration crackdown, a response to
an unprecedented wave of refugees pressing for permission to stay.

For Bangs, the former chief curator of Plimoth Plantation in Plymouth, Mass.,
the order to leave by Jan. 15 is ironic. He has been chronicling how the
Pilgrims, before boarding the Mayflower, spent 11 years in a Holland that
proudly declared in 1609 it "refuses no honest people free entry."

The Netherlands' refusal to grant him a residency permit, Bangs contends, will
force the closure of the only museum focusing on the Pilgrims' little-known
years in exile in Amsterdam.

"I'm not a refugee. I'm a historian," Bangs, 52, said Monday.

The Justice Ministry, which oversees immigration policy, earlier this month
rejected Bangs' application for new residency papers, saying he needed a work
permit.

But Bangs was told he could not apply for a work permit because he is officially
considered an employee of the museum, which he opened on Thanksgiving Day 1997.
Only employers can apply.

Bangs' Leiden American Pilgrim Museum was an instant hit in the town, which
offered refuge to 100 Pilgrims and still holds yearly Thanksgiving Day services
in the main church.

Hoping to save the museum, supporters worldwide are writing letters to Queen
Beatrix and Cabinet ministers on behalf of Bangs, his wife and their dog.

But the Justice Ministry has refused to budge. It is struggling to contain a
record number of illegal immigrants from Turkey, Afghanistan and the former
Yugoslavia.

LOAD-DATE: July 4, 1999

LANGUAGE: English

GRAPHIC: PHOTO THE ASSOCIATED PRESS Photo - Jeremy Bangs, founder of the Leiden
American Pilgrim Museum in the Netherlands, is facing expulsion as the nation
gets tough on immigrants.

                  Copyright 1998 St. Louis Post-Dispatch, Inc.


                              264 of 457 DOCUMENTS

                       St. Louis Post-Dispatch (Missouri)

                 December 31, 1998, Thursday, FIVE STAR EDITION

IMMIGRANTS HERE PLAN CELEBRATION OF FREEDOM;
CHURCH IN CITY WILL HOLD SPECIAL MASS SUNDAY HONORING POLITICAL REFUGEES

BYLINE: Margaret Gillerman; Of The Post-Dispatch

SECTION: SOUTH POST, Pg. 1

LENGTH: 553 words


Asmaro Belay and his family fled to St. Louis after escaping civil war in their
homeland of Eritrea. Phuong Le left her native Vietnam with her family after her
husband had to suffer in a political prison camp for many years. And at least 11
Nigerian families resettled here after fleeing their native country, where
torture has become commonplace.

On Sunday, these families and many other political refugees and immigrants will
gather to celebrate their diverse backgrounds and their new lives in St. Louis.
They will worship at a Mass at St. Pius V Catholic Church, 3310 South Grand
Boulevard.

Some will speak of their experiences in resettling here after suffering through
war, poverty and deprivation. They will pray together for peace and give thanks
for their new opportunities.

New refugees have settled in various parts of the St. Louis area, and many are
in the parish served by St. Pius V Church.

"The point is to celebrate the contributions of immigrants and refugees to
American society and to educate people here about the struggles refugees face,"
said Laurie Latuda, director of Catholic Charities Refugee Services here. "It's
a chance to educate people that the community is both people born here and
refugees and immigrants who have recently become part of the community."

Sister Paulette Weindel, who began a refugee program for St. Pius, says the
purpose of the gathering is, "to keep the refugees, immigrants and migrant
workers in our awareness and to see how we can advocate for them."

"Some are fleeing persecution, some fleeing wars. We know the situation in
Bosnia, and Sudan is in flames. The Angolan situation is still being settled,"
she said.

At the Mass, recent immigrants and refugees will read from Scriptures and offer
prayers of petition in their native languages of Bosnian, Portuguese,
Vietnamese, Filipino and such obscure tonges as Tigrinian, a language of
Eritrea. The service will begin with a procession of immigrants and political
refugees through the church.

Among the groups represented in the service will be Vietnamese, Mexicans,
Angolans, Nicaraguans, Filipinos, Bosnians, Ukrainians, Nigerians, Sudanese,
Eritreans and South Africans. Others expected to attend may come from Somalia
and perhaps Croatia and Cuba.

The Mass will begin at 10 a.m. A reception will follow.

The events Sunday are a way to celebrate National Migration Week, which is
sponsored by the United States Catholic Conference. The National Conference of
Catholic Bishops of the Catholic Conference began National Migration Week 19
years ago. In St. Louis, St. Pius and Catholic Charities Refugee Services this
year are sponsoring the Mass. This year's theme is Reflecting God's Love for
All.

"We want all of St. Louis to know we will be celebrating National Migra tion
Week," Latuda said.

St. Pius V Church, a massive and towering light-colored stone edifice, fills
much of a block at Grand and Utah Street in St. Louis. Nearby, markets and
restaurants, sights and sounds reflect the diverse cultures of the neighborhood.

The church offers warmth, solace and a large variety of immigrant and refugee
programs. It is also affiliated with special programs that counsel refugees
suffering war trauma, tutor immigrant women and teach English as a second
language.

LOAD-DATE: December 31, 1998

LANGUAGE: English

                  Copyright 1998 St. Louis Post-Dispatch, Inc.


                              265 of 457 DOCUMENTS

                       St. Louis Post-Dispatch (Missouri)

                January 17, 1999, Sunday, FIVE STAR LIFT EDITION

IMMIGRANT ENDURES LONG, PERILOUS BUS RIDE ON JOURNEY HOME

BYLINE: Dan Mihalopoulos; Of The Post-Dispatch

SECTION: NEWS ANALYSIS, Pg. B4

LENGTH: 1194 words


It's about 9 on a Saturday evening shortly before Christmas, and the parking lot
of a small strip mall just across the highway from St. Louis' international
airport is transforming into an international busport.

Migrant worker Juan Mondragon holds a $ 155 ticket for one of two buses headed
directly from the El Caporal grocery store in Woodson Terrace to Mexico.

He will be spending the next two nights on buses so he can visit his wife and
children for the first time in nearly two years.

Some of the 30-some other passengers on the bus face even longer trips back, to
homes in central Mexico's mountain villages. Most of them, including Juan,
intend to return to work again in St. Louis in the spring.

Autobuses Regiomontanos Campa, based in Chicago and Monterrey, Mexico, added the
St. Louis stop about seven months ago. Each Saturday night, the company's buses
now stop at El Caporal en route from Milwaukee to more than a dozen cities in
northern and central Mexico.

About an hour after leaving El Caporal, the two buses make their first stop at a
Burger King in Eureka. After eating a burger and fries, Juan makes sure to
dispose of his garbage.

"The first time I went to a place like this, I left my garbage on the table," he
recalls. "That's what we do in Mexico, and the waiters take care of it. I didn't
know it was different here until my second time, when a friend explained it. The
first time, the people were giving me dirty looks and saying something probably,
but I don't know, it was in English."

The next pause comes at 3 a.m. There, a middle-aged woman alone behind the cash
register at a gas station in Pryor, Okla., refuses to open the bathroom to the
two busloads of Mexicans. The passengers who have picked out candy bars, bags of
potato chips and soft-drink bottles to purchase leave the items on the counter
in front of the woman and silently walk back to the buses.

"That happens sometimes," says Elias, the bus driver with a handlebar, Pancho
Villa-style mustache. "That woman is bad."

Another store across town is more accommodating, and the bus roars south into
Texas by morning. Sleep doesn't come easily. Cold exhaust fumes rise through
holes in electrical tape placed to keep floorboards down. When the highway leads
into livestock country and the sun rises, the jets of air shooting up from the
aisle become uncomfortably warm.

At a roadside taco restaurant in San Antonio, Juan and the other bus riders
discuss whether they should pick up their trays and soiled napkins once they are
finished eating. One glance at the other tables answers the question. "The
owners are Mexicans," Juan says, shrugging. The trash remains on the tables.

Crossing the border

The bus nears the border at dusk. Looking down on the bridge that connects
Laredo, Texas with Nuevo Laredo, Mexico, it's not hard to guess which side is
which.

The lane of traffic leading into the United States is blocked with traffic
across the bridge and one-quarter of a mile into Mexico. U.S. officials search
the vehicles, using mirrors stuck to the end of poles to ensure that no illicit
cargo is tucked into a car's underbelly.

Juan is afraid that the Mexican authorities will go through his three cloth
bags. Carrying such large parcels puts him at increased risk of harrassment by
border authorities. The poorly paid Mexican officials supplement their income by
shaking down illegal migrant workers returning with cash for their families.

At the ramshackle border post along the Rio Grande, the Mexican agents are
officious, even polite.

The real corruption does not transpire until the bus reaches "Kilometer 26," a
customs house on the highway about 15 miles farther into Mexico. Before the bus
reaches the customs checkpoint, Elias the bus driver walks down the aisle to
collect tarjetas chuecas, or fake ID cards, from the illegal immigrants.

Juan forks over two falsified documents: a resident alien card and a
social-security card. The dupes cost him about $ 130 in St. Louis. He presented
them to his employers each time he got a job in the United States.

"That way they could say, 'We didn't know he was illegal, he showed us his
papers,' if the government raids them," Juan says. "My wife will mail these back
to me in St. Louis so the U.S. border guards don't take them from me if they
catch me coming back. I will find these cards again in St. Louis, God willing."

Elias said he collects the cards in case Mexican officials search his
passengers. "If they find these cards," Elias explains, "then they might ask why
they have them, since they are Mexican citizens, and demand a bigger bribe."

Elias has a plan to shortcut the bribery process, known in Mexico as la mordida
- or, literally, "the bite." He proposes that everyone on the bus pitch in $ 10
or $ 20, depending on how much they are carrying with them. That way, he argues,
the passengers can avoid having guards go through their belongings and demand
yet larger bribes for whatever arbitrary reason strikes their fancy.

A lone border official boards the bus. With the bus lights out, he performs a
quick review of whatever documents each passenger thrusts under the beam of his
flashlight.

Only Sergio, a long-haired migrant worker who labored in Warrenton, is taken off
the bus and into a tollbooth-like pillbox. Allowed back onto the bus minutes
later, he says the guards asked him for $ 40. When he said he didn't have $ 40,
they knew he was lying. They said if he didn't give them the $ 40, they would
search him. "So I gave them the $ 40," he says.

Once Sergio is aboard again, the bus leaves without the Mexican officials having
inspected a single piece of luggage. Juan is ebullient, and the reason becomes
apparent as he reveals a secret under his shirt. Unbuttoning the blue-and-white
checkered shirt he donned in St. Louis, Juan grasps an envelope stuck to the
cross around his neck. The envelope contains $ 5,000 in cash.

"God is great," Juan says.

By early Monday, the start of the bus trip's third day, the highway between
Monterrey and Zacatecas climbs to more than 8,000 feet, and snow falls. It's too
cold to sleep well. Yet another bus, the third Juan has taken on this trek,
takes him to the industrial city of Leon.

Juan's last meal before his first homecooked one in almost two years is at a
McDonald's in Leon. Finishing his lunch, he decides to dispose of the garbage.

"This is Mexico," he says. "but McDonald's preserves the customs of the United
States."

All that remains of Juan's trip home is a two-hour, third-class bus ride to San
Julian, the town in Jalisco state where his wife and children live off the wages
he earned in St. Louis.

The bus from Leon arrives in San Julian at 5:24 p.m. Monday, the trip's third
day. A villager carries Juan and his ample luggage home in the bed of his
pickup. It's been 44 hours and 1,700 miles since Juan left St. Louis.

Now he has three months to visit his family and brace himself for the return to
the United States. He knows that trip back - sneaking across the border with a
coyote smuggler - promises to be much tougher than the bus ride home.

LOAD-DATE: January 19, 1999

LANGUAGE: English

GRAPHIC: PHOTO, MAP (1) Photo - Above, Juan (Mondragon) looks out across the Rio
Grande river as his bus crosses the border into Mexico at Laredo, Texas.
 (2) Photo by J.B. Forbes POST-DISPATCH - At left, he displays the falsified
identification cards that he presents to employers in the United States.
 (3) Map by POST-DISPATCH - Juan's journey home
 (map shows route in heavy broken line from St. Louis through Oklahoma and Texas
into Mexico.)

                  Copyright 1999 St. Louis Post-Dispatch, Inc.


                              266 of 457 DOCUMENTS

                       St. Louis Post-Dispatch (Missouri)

                January 31, 1999, Sunday, FIVE STAR LIFT EDITION

HIJUELOS TACKLES CLASS STEREOTYPES WITH PORTRAIT OF CUBAN IMMIGRANT

BYLINE: Lucy Ferriss; Special To The Post-Dispatch

SECTION: EVERYDAY MAGAZINE, Pg. G5

LENGTH: 744 words


In a sense, Oscar Hijuelos has always written about class. In "The Mambo Kings
Play Songs of Love," his Pulitzer Prize-winning second novel, Cuban-born
musicians briefly break through the economic barriers to immigrants in the
United States, only to find that high-class women and widespread acceptance
elude them. In "Mr. Ives' Christmas," the murder that sets the plot in motion is
committed by a lower-class black man on a rising, educated youth of mixed Irish
and Hispanic descent. But in those books and others, class and ethnicity are
backdrops to the main themes of family or forgiveness or - Hijuelos' pervasive
subject - love of pre-Castro Cuba.

In "Empress of the Splendid Season," Hijuelos takes on class directly, in the
persona of Lydia Espana, a high-born Cuban immigrant who supports her family for
more than three decades cleaning houses. Lydia herself is a fine creation, a
delicately nuanced character who escapes stereotype through the details of her
personality and even her affectations - she dresses in thrift-store clothing
carefully chosen to give the impression of higher class, she is estranged from
her unforgiving father back in Cuba, she can't help bullying her children. Not
much happens in this account of her life. A few vivid scenes detail her
husband's heart attack that set her on a lifelong road of hard and often
demeaning work, her daughter's shoplifting episode, a painful Christmas
encounter between her family and the kind, condescending family of her employer.
Mostly, though, the book is a portrait, and what we are left with is not a
surprising turn of events or gripping plot, but a fully realized character who
would no doubt, in a different book, be given the smallest supporting role.

When Hijuelos attempted to portray vivid female characters in "The Fourteen
Sisters of Emilio Montez O'Brien," he was taken to task for his chauvinism, for
his fictive women's adoration of the male physique and stereotypical
dependencies. Lydia Espana foils these charges. Stronger both physically and
emotionally than her disabled husband, she expresses a multiplicity of desires,
not only for challenging men like the communist philosopher and coffee-shop
owner Eliseo, but also for the strange and secret lives to which she is privy in
her cleaning duties. Hijuelos also successfully, albeit gently, skewers a number
of middle- and upper-class pretensions in his depictions of Lydia's clients.

Hijuelos' method has its drawbacks. Confronted too often with lengthy exposition
beginning "During those years ..." or "In those days ...," he breaks up the
story with subtitles that resemble the written frames in a silent movie ("More
of the Glorious Life"; "How the Afternoon Went"), an attempt to liven up the
action that instead reminds the reader of how little action takes place. Long
passages in italic have a similar effect.

More seriously, whatever moral force Hijuelos' depiction might have had in terms
of the damaging effect of class boundaries (which exist, despite two centuries
of denial, in the United States, especially in regard to recent immigrants), he
falls prey to sentimentality. Lydia loses the ability "to simply pass the time"
with her children "in the unagitated, affectionate quietude of a Cuban mother."
At the end of her hard life, widowed and devoid of dreams, she impresses her
wealthy employer with her "matter-of-fact approach to life," her
"self-confident, no-nonsense manner" and "tremendous strength." When Lydia,
receiving a large sum of money, cannot think of anything to spend it on, it is
hard to say whether Hijuelos intends irony or a tribute to selflessness and hard
work.

And yet, neither victim nor saint, Lydia does manage to stand for millions of
other women who go unnoticed in both the daily world and the world of
literature. I finished the book on a New York City subway in late afternoon, the
time when cleaning ladies and hotel maids, their days beginning often at dawn,
finally take the long trains back to Harlem or the Bronx or Queens. Around me,
thanks to "Empress of the Splendid Season," I saw a dozen Lydias - or more
appropriately, a dozen women each with her own story to tell, a story as rich
and subtle as the one Oscar Hijuelos has conjured in this flawed but honest and
ambitious novel.

==============================

'Empress of the Splendid Season'

A novel by Oscar Hijuelos

Published by HarperFlamingo, 352 pages, $ 25

LOAD-DATE: January 31, 1999

LANGUAGE: English

                  Copyright 1999 St. Louis Post-Dispatch, Inc.


                              267 of 457 DOCUMENTS

                       St. Louis Post-Dispatch (Missouri)

              February 18, 1999, Thursday, FIVE STAR LIFT EDITION

FROM HOME TO HOME: EXHIBIT OFFERS IMAGES OF IMMIGRANTS' JOURNEY, LIFE;
AT JEWISH COMMUNITY CENTER, THROUGH FEB. 28

BYLINE: Marianna Riley; Of The Post-Dispatch

SECTION: WEST POST, Pg. 1

LENGTH: 930 words


People who have left their native lands don't often like to talk about why they
left, sometimes because they're too busy trying to adjust to their new home.

It's often left to a second, third or fourth generation to learn where their
ancestors came from, why they left their homeland and what kind of people they
were.

An exhibit called From Home to Home, aimed at helping young people understand
their immigrant ancestors and what went into their decision to emigrate, is
currently running through Feb. 28 at the Jewish Community Center, 2 Millstone
Campus Drive off Lindbergh at Schuetz Road.

"It's not often you get to walk in your grandparents' shoes," said Patty Bloom,
a board member of the sponsoring Central Agency for Jewish Education and
chairman of the advisory committee for the exhibit. The co-sponsor is the Jewish
Family Educators' Network.

The exhibit allows the viewers to come very close to walking in their ancestors'
shoes. Plus, in creative and meaningful ways, the exhibit encourages children's
participation in decisions that their ancestors' must have made: Why move? Where
to go? What to take?

The idea is to help them understand both the wrenching decision to leave and the
difficult task of adapting to a new land.

There's a scale where the participants literally weigh pros and cons of leaving,
all of which are written on small wooden blocks; and there is a colorful exhibit
that encourages children to pack their own small trunks, a realistic way to
point up the hard choices that each family member had to make.

There's a shelf of grocery items with labels in strange hieroglyphics,
representing how English must have appeared to the new arrivals.

Beautifully detailed dioramas show immigrant life in various cities in America,
including St. Louis, and other dioramas show different aspects of Jewish life in
several cities of Eastern Europe.

Using a scale model of a typical 400-square-foot apartment, children are invited
to fit doll-house furniture, enough for 10 people, into the spa ce. Photographs
accompanying that exhibit show how people lived in such small spaces by sleeping
five or six crosswise in one bed.

Although the exhibit depicts the immigration experience from the Jewish point of
view, Jews don't have a monopoly on it, says Bloom. Most families can trace
their roots back to similar experiences, and many groups from Catholic and
public schools have enjoyed the exhibit, she says.

Bloom's grandmother, Frieda Handelman, 85, of Frontenac, looked at the exhibits
and smiled at the pictures of the people sleeping crosswise. She remembers doing
that once, on her wedding night, when more guests arrived than her family had
beds for.

Pointing to the activity that asks children to fit things into trunks, she noted
that her mother, Rebecca Weitzman, who died five years ago at the age of 100,
had come to this country at the age of 15. "She had no mother and probably had
nothing to bring," she said.

About all Handelman knew of her own mother's early life was that her grandfather
was a farmer in a small town somewhere in Russia.

Her grandmother had died in childbirth when her mother was almost 4. "All she
told me about the trip here was that she ate a banana for the first time and
thought it was marvelous," she said.

Bloom, 29, who lives in University City, wants to know more. Within the past
three or four years, she's started writing a family history and has traveled to
meet descendants of these immigrants of both her family and her husband's
family.

She's learned how her great-great-grandfather would pay off government officials
weekly in order to avoid the pogroms.

She knows that her great-grandfather's family probably decided to leave Russia
because he had been drafted, and it was widely accepted that once a Jew was
conscripted, he never returned home.

But there's so much more she wants to know. "Often that first generation didn't
want to talk. But five generations later, it's important to know all the reasons
they came here," she said.

"We want to learn about the values they had and how we can pass them on to our
children," she said. Her own daughter, Rebecca Bloom, 18 months, is named for
her great-great-grandmother, who came here.

Bloom, who teaches fourth-graders in religious school at Temple Israel, said, "I
want to make sure our children have memories, so that 3,000 years of history is
not forgotten - and that it doesn't end with them."

The exhibit was created by the Jewish Children's Learning Lab in coordination
with the Board of Jewish Education of New York. St. Louis is the first city
outside the New York area to display it. From here it will go to Kansas City.

The exhibit targ0ets families with children ages 7 to 12, but it speaks to the
"universal immigrant experience," said Joan Wolchansky, director of the
department of family education for the Central Agency for Jewish Education and
exhibit coordinator.

"Parents relate to the exhibit on a different level from their children, but
everyone makes a personal connection," she said. "It's a really good way to get
family interaction in terms of a family's own stories."

***

The exhibit

From Home to Home continues through Feb. 28 at the Jewish Community Center, 2
Millston Campus Drive. Hours are 1 to 5 p.m. Sunday; 11 a.m. to 5:30 p.m.
Monday, Tuesday and Thursday; noon to 8 p.m. Wednesday; and 10 a.m. to 2 p.m.
Friday. Admission is $ 3 a person, $ 1.50 for children accompanied by adults.
For information and group reservations, call 432-0020, Ext. 3760.

LOAD-DATE: February 18, 1999

LANGUAGE: English

GRAPHIC: PHOTO Color Photo by TED DARGAN / POST-DISPATCH - Four generations of
relatives of Jewish immigrants look at a display on immigration at the Jewish
Community Center in west St. Louis County. The four (from left) are Rebecca
Bloom, Alice Handelman, Patty Bloom and Frieda Handelman.

                  Copyright 1999 St. Louis Post-Dispatch, Inc.


                              268 of 457 DOCUMENTS

                       St. Louis Post-Dispatch (Missouri)

                 February 21, 1999, Sunday, THREE STAR EDITION

MAN MARRIED 11 TIMES IS CHARGED WITH SCAM

BYLINE: The Associated Press

SECTION: NEWS, Pg. A5

LENGTH: 127 words

DATELINE: NEWARK, N.J.


Manuel Febus makes Elizabeth Taylor look like a novice when it comes to
marriage.

Authorities say Febus, of New York, has been married more than 11 times. But,
they say, he wasn't promising eternal love, just a green card.

He was accused in federal court last month of illegally helping immigrant women
gain permanent residency by marrying them.

In at least one case, authorities say, he charged a fee. A woman married Febus
on Valentine's Day 1997 after agreeing to pay $ 5,500 to an associate of Febus
to find her a husband, according to records.

Nearly all of the brides submitted a photo of themselves with Febus as part of
their applications to the Immigration and Naturalization Service.

The serial bridegroom is free on $ 50,000 bail.

LOAD-DATE: July 7, 1999

LANGUAGE: English

                  Copyright 1999 St. Louis Post-Dispatch, Inc.


                              269 of 457 DOCUMENTS

                       St. Louis Post-Dispatch (Missouri)

                 March 2, 1999, Tuesday, FIVE STAR LIFT EDITION

MCNARY CRITICIZES AGENCY FOR CHANGING PROGRAM THAT LURED IMMIGRANT INVESTORS;
FOREIGNERS INVESTED MONEY IN RETURN FOR CITIZENSHIP;
NOW INS THREATENS DEPORTATION

BYLINE: Philip Dine; Post-Dispatch Washington Bureau

SECTION: NEWS, Pg. A1

LENGTH: 980 words

DATELINE: WASHINGTON


St. Louis County's Gene McNary is doing battle with the federal agency he used
to run, the Immigration and Naturalization Service.

The conflict involves a government program to attract wealthy foreign investors
to the United States - and the private companies that profited by helping them.

McNary was the INS commissioner when the program began. After he left the
agency, he started working for one of the companies that designed ways for the
immigrants to participate at a lower cost.

Now, the government is threatening to deport many of those immigrants. It says
plans of the sort the company created subverted the purpose of the law, making
it into what one official called a "buy-a-visa" program.

McNary, who plans to run for Congress next year, says the immigration service is
being unfair by changing its rules retroactively. He charges the federal agency,
which he directed during President George Bush's administration, with acting in
ways that are "unethical, immoral, unlawful and unconstitutional."

Created by Congress in 1990, the "immigrant-investors program" aimed to
stimulate the American economy by spurring investment from abroad. Foreign
entrepreneurs who invest up to $ 1 million - $ 500,000 in poor areas - and
create 10 full-time U.S. jobs are allowed to bypass the normal visa process and
quickly gain the green card required for residency.

But given the large amount of money required upfront and the inherent risks,
there were few early takers.

To help foreigners take part with less financial risk, several American
companies sprung up - and after he left the INS in 1993, McNary went to work for
one of them, AIS.

As reported Friday by The Wall Street Journal, the companies created a complex
set of financial and legal arrangements involving limited partnerships,
promissory notes and investments in struggling U.S. firms. As a result, the
companies managed to get foreigners into this country with far less than the
required initial investment - some for as little as $ 125,000.

McNary said Monday that AIS was simply following immigration-service guidelines,
that it did nothing wrong and that it's unfair of the government to change the
rules for immigrants in midstream.

"These people have changed their lives around," McNary said.

"You've made your investment, you moved your family here, but you're going to be
deported, you're going to lose your investment . . . when the INS without any
notice or hearing just willy-nilly reverses itself. That doesn't seem quite
American, does it?"

The INS strongly disputed those contentions Monday, saying it seeks only to
return to the legislation's original intent.

"I think what happened was these firms went out and marketed plans which were an
attempt to change the game," said INS spokesman Russ Bergeron.

"Fundamentally, this visa category was never intended to be a buy-a-visa plan.
It was intended to be an earn-a-visa plan. It was established so that investors
would invest the full amount of the money, and it was supposed to be their
money. And in exchange for putting your money at risk and for creating jobs for
workers in the United States, you would earn a visa.

"We have an obligation to ensure that anyone who gets a visa under this program
fulfills both the letter and the spirit of the law."

McNary served as INS commissioner from 1989 to early 1993.

"When I left in January 1993, only 83 of these visas had been issued," said
McNary, noting that Congress had provided for up to 10,000 a year in hopes of
luring more than $ 5 billion in investments and creating 100,000 jobs.

Bergeron agrees that "it's true that once AIS and other companies began
marketing their packages, the number of petitions filed shot up dramatically."

McNary says that's because "AIS put in some business practices that made it more
attractive to foreign nationals around the world. You didn't have to put the
full $ 500,000 up front. You could be in the process of investing, put up $
125,000 with a $ 375,000 promissory note to be paid over five years, as one
example."

After taking the required year off from practicing immigration law after he left
the INS, McNary went to work for AIS in 1995.

"Originally, I was paid by AIS and by the client," he said. "I had a retainer
with both. About a year after I started representing AIS and these investors,
AIS ceased to pay me, and the fee came from the client."

He said he's not sure how much he earned, and regards it as his own business.

McNary acknowledges that the immigration service had some legitimate concerns
about whether the full amount would be invested, and when. But such worries
could have been fixed through legislation, he contends.

In the mid-1990s, as the State Department and U.S. embassy officials overseas
began to question AIS and similar companies, McNary says he and other
immigration lawyers met with the immigration service to understand its concerns
and to adjust company practices.

But, he maintains, an unexpected ruling by the INS general counsel in December
1997 suddenly changed agency policy.

That ruling was the agency's first complete look at these companies, Bergeron
says, and it concluded that any confusion was due to "the complexity of the
legal and financial packages these people were putting together."

Up to a couple of thousand visas have been issued under the program. McNary and
St. Louis immigration lawyer Tong Gao said they each know of several people in
St. Louis here under the program but couldn't provide precise numbers.

McNary says he's no longer working with AIS because the INS rulings have made it
tough for the company to function, but he continues to represent some of the
company's clients.

An immigration lawyer in Miami is filing a class-action suit against the INS,
and McNary says he may join on behalf of his clients.

LOAD-DATE: March 2, 1999

LANGUAGE: English

GRAPHIC: PHOTO Color Photo headshot - Gene McNary

                  Copyright 1999 St. Louis Post-Dispatch, Inc.


                              270 of 457 DOCUMENTS

                       St. Louis Post-Dispatch (Missouri)

                 March 7, 1999, Sunday, FIVE STAR LIFT EDITION

DO YOU RECOGNIZE THESE WOMEN?

BYLINE: Yvonne Samuel; Of the Post-Dispatch

SECTION: NEWS ANALYSIS, Pg. B1

LENGTH: 1892 words


* March, Women's History Month, is a time to recognize notable accomplishments
made by women. This page, and two stories on women's history on Page D1, are
dedicated to women in the St. Louis area who have made outstanding contributions
in their fields. Read the descriptions, then guess the names. Answers are on
Page B5.

1. In June 1992, I became the first woman to become the Poet Laureate of the
United States, the sixth poet laureate to receive the honor. I have won almost
all of the distinguished literary awards in existence. I am the winner of the
1991 Pulitzer Prize in poetry, the National Book Award and the Bollingen Prize.
My books of collected poems include "If It Be Not I," "Bedtime Stories" and
"Garland for Christopher Smart." Six years ago, I wrote a poem honoring
President Bill Clinton titled, "For William Clinton, President Elect." My work
appears in rhymed couplets, narrative form and metrical verse. I am known best
as a poet of affections and love, especially married love.

Who am I?

2. I specialize in international and immigration and naturalization law in the
firm of Armstrong, Teasdale, and help clients start new businesses in Latin
America. I help corporations, universities and individuals obtain documentation
for worldwide travel and employment, as well as advise corporate clients on
immigration in mergers and acquisitions. I once served as a civil and commercial
judge in Argentina. I taught business law at NATO bases in Iceland and Austria,
and served as an adjunct professor at Webster University. I frequently write on
global interdependence and global environmental issues. I am chairperson of the
immigration law committee of the American Bar Association.

Who am I?

3. Two years ago, when I returned to St. Louis, I became the first
African-American member of Civic Progress, St. Louis' most influential business
group. I also serve on the boards of the Girl Scouts Council of Greater St.
Louis, the St. Louis Symphony and the St. Louis Regional Commerce and Growth
Association. I am president of Southwestern Bell-Missouri. During my career
there, I have worked my way up the corporate ladder, raising employee racial
consciousness as director of diversity, working for the Yellow Pages and giving
seed money to good causes as board chairman of the SBC Communications Foundation
and as associate vice president of corporate services for SBC Communications.

Who am I?

4. I was appointed to the U.S. Hispanic Chamber of Commerce in Washington last
year. Our mission is to advocate, promote and facilitate the success of
Hispanic-owned businesses. In 1983, I founded my own business: Chesterfield
Trading Ltd., an import and export company. I serve as Honorary Consul of
Honduras in St. Louis and I am vice president of the St. Louis Consular Corps. I
served as former president of the Sociedad Hispano-Americana de Saint Louis and
as a member of the St. Louis Minority Business Council.

Who am I?

5. I was the first woman to head a St. Louis medium-security institution: the
City Workhouse. Six years ago, I became director of the Missouri Department of
Corrections. At the time, I was one of only six women nationwide to head a state
prison system -- and the first in Missouri. My job is to manage and supervise
15,000 inmates, housed in 12 prisons, two honor centers, one treatment center
and one reception and diagnostic center. Two years ago, I ordered 415 Missouri
prisoners held at the Brazoria County Detention Center south of Houston, Texas,
returned after I watched a videotape of Texas deputies who were using stun guns
and attack dogs on prisoners.

Who am I?

6. I was the second woman named to chair the national board of directors of the
National Association for the Advancement of Colored People. I was elected to the
NAACP national board in 1963 . I am an attorney, civil rights activist and board
chair. I received the Bar Association of Metropolitan St. Louis' Law Day
Distinguished Lawyer Award for my more than 53 years of legal service. The
University of Missouri at St. Louis named a scholarship in my honor. When the
late civil rights activist Marian Oldham was jailed for 11 days for her
participation in the Jefferson Bank protest, I was her attorney.

Who am I?

7. When I and my neighbors challenged the St. Louis Public Schools in 1972, we
were demanding what all parents want for their children: a good education. I got
angry when the school system shipped my son Craton off to his fourth school in
seven years. After I and my neighbors found two lawyers and held barbecues,
dances and raffles to raise filing fees, we went to federal court on Feb. 18,
1972, charging racial discrimination against African-American students through
school boundaries that resulted in segregation. After a 13-week trial, Judge
James Meredith ruled against us. But in March 1980, a federal appeals court
found otherwise and ordered a city busing plan.

Who am I?

8. I urge my troops to do two things: be nice and be noisy. I don't mean loud. I
want them to let the public know that the Junior League of St. Louis reaches
out, that we are diverse and there are opportunities for all women . As the
first African-American to preside over the Junior League of St. Louis, my goal
has been to live by the Junior League's mission of volunteerism. I am married to
a nationally known professor of English and African and Afro-American studies at
Washington University. I am a board member at Epworth's Children's Home,
Interfaith Housing Help and Eden Seminary.

Who am I?

9. I was a state senator from University City in 1982, and was twice the
Democratic nominee to the U.S. Senate. In my second Senate race in 1986, I
became Missouri's first statewide political candidate to air an ad touting my
abortion-rights views. As lieutenant governor of Missouri from 1985 to 1989, I
talked about the need for affordable housing and convened a statewide task force
on homelessness. I helped found Missourians for Choice in 1992 and spent four
years as president of the National Women's Po litical Caucus, a bipartisan
group. I've served as vice chairman of the Women's Vote Project, a coalition of
70 women's groups.

Who am I?

10. I have been president and chief executive officer of the United Way of
Metropolitan St. Louis since 1994 - the first woman and the first
African-American to lead the organization. I pioneered "Success by Six," which
helps children prepare to start school. I am on the Advisory Board of the
National Council of Jewish Women and serve as a trustee at the St. Louis Art
Museum. I'm also a member of the Economic Development Committee for the Black
Leadership Roundtable, FOCUS St. Louis, the Regional Commerce and Growth
Association, St. Louis 2004 and A.G. Edwards.

Who am I?

11. As chancellor of the University of Missouri at St. Louis in 1997, I was the
first woman to win the former Man of the Year Award, now called the St. Louis
Citizen of the Year Award. I was vice president of the Class of 1949 at Beaumont
High School, the presidency being by tradition a boy's job. I got my Ph.D. at a
time when few women were able to do so. I was the first tenured woman in the
history department of Queens College of the City University of New York, and was
the first tenured woman in any d epartment at the University of Missouri at St.
Louis.

Who am I?

12. During my tenure in the state Senate, I delivered a new sexual predator law,
reformed Missouri's adoption system, strengthened domestic violence laws,
improved the rights of doctors and parents in managed care, and worked on
legislation for seniors and children. I have been honored by the Missouri Police
Chiefs Association, Associated Industries, and the Missouri Medical Association.
I am a Republican from Ladue representing the 24th District.

Who am I?

13. For a decade, the Central Reform Congregation, which I serve as a rabbi, and
Cote Brilliante Presbyterian Church, both in the city, have mentored city
schoolchildren. First-graders at Cote Brilliante were paired with adults from
both congregations. The program was spurred by the riots in Los Angeles in 1992.
At that time, my congregation and Cote Brilliante Presbyterian decided we wanted
to come up with a long-term response to violence. Once a month, mentors tutor
children in reading and math. Adults in both congregations have shared their
beliefs with one another.

Who am I?

14. I am president and chief executive officer of SSM Health Care, one of the
largest Catholic health systems in the nation. I am committed to continuous
quality improvement, preservation of the Earth's resources and ethnic and gender
diversity. I am involved in many national, state and local boards. Among them
are the St. Louis Regional Commerce and Growth Association, Excellence in
Missouri Foundation, St. Louis University, the Hawthorn Foundation and "Taking
Care -- A Health Forum for Women Religious.

"

Who am I?

15. Twenty years ago, I got involved in radio. Last April, I was appointed vice
president and general manager of KMOX. I have worked as senior vice president
and general manager of St. Louis' largest radio group, American Radio Systems,
operating stations KYKY-FM, KSD-FM, KEZK-FM, KFNS-FM and KLOU-FM. I am also a
board member for the Missouri Broadcasters Association, the Radio Advertising
Bureau, the St. Louis Art Fair, Laumeier Sculpture Park, First Night St. Louis,
Boy Scouts and Junior Achievement. I am CEO and founder of Outreach-St. Louis.

Who am I?

16. Ever since I can remember, I've written stories, plays and poems in
notebooks. As a parent and teacher, I was aware that there was little accurate
material available on African-American history. I realized that if someone
didn't preserve these stories, an important part of our heritage could be lost.
I have worked with my husband to produce more than 100 children's books,
including "Let My People Go," a compilation of Old Testament tales retold from
the viewpoint of a free black Southerner in post-Revolutionary slave times. My
book was named by Publisher's Weekly as one of the best children's religious
books of 1998.

Who am I?

17. I am a politician, a civil rights leader and a peace disruptor. My mission
is to speak out for the poor and disenfranchised. I believe in working on the
people level, instead of the political-party level. I am known for the phrase:
"Wake up, sit up, look up, get up. . . . Now's the time to get involved in
what's happening." I was the first African-American woman on the City Council of
University City. I am a member of the Missouri House for the 72nd District. I
have managed an anti-poverty program, hosted a weekly radio talk show, and was
president of the National Women in Municipal Government.

Who am I?

18. I am news planning manager for Channel 5. I joined the station as an
executive producer for special projects in 1985. Seven years later, I became
executive producer in news, a position I held until 1998. Before joining KSDK, I
was a producer at WXYZ in Detroit. I have received 16 local Emmys for a variety
of news projects and series. I also received an award from AMC Breast Cancer
Research for a KSDK breast cancer project. I am an adjunct professor at
Washington University.

Who am I?

LOAD-DATE: March 9, 1999

LANGUAGE: English

GRAPHIC: PHOTO Photo headshots - 1) Mona Van Duyn, 2) Lilian Castellani de
Fernandez, 3) Priscilla Hill-Ardoin, 4) Maria Guadalupe Mendoza Taxman, 5) Dora
B. Schriro, 6) Margaret Bush Wilson, 7) Minnie Lidell, 8) Ida Early, 9) Harriett
Woods, 10) Charmaine Chapman, 11) Blanche M. Touhill, 12) Betty Sims, 13) Rabbi
Susan Talve, 14) Sister Mary Jean Ryan, 15) Karen Carroll, 16) Patricia
McKissack, 17) Betty L. Thompson, 18) Ava Ehrlich

                  Copyright 1999 St. Louis Post-Dispatch, Inc.


                              271 of 457 DOCUMENTS

                       St. Louis Post-Dispatch (Missouri)

                March 11, 1999, Thursday, FIVE STAR LIFT EDITION

CLINTON URGES NEW ROLE IN CENTRAL AMERICA

BYLINE: The Associated Press

SECTION: NEWS, Pg. A5

LENGTH: 349 words

DATELINE: GUATEMALA CITY


President Bill Clinton sought on Wednesday to heal old wounds by acknowledging
the U.S. role in Central America's "dark and painful period" of civil wars and
repression.

He urged that the United States be viewed "in a new way, as a partner, a
friend."

But a hundred or so demonstrators protested Clinton's arrival from El Salvador.
They carried signs decrying genocide, murder, oil companies and poor wages.

The reception contrasted with the praise the president got during a speech
Clinton made to El Salvador's Legislative Assembly before arriving in Guatemala.
In that speech, Clinton promised to seek revisions in U.S. laws that
discriminate by country in the treatment of illegal immigrants.

"This is wrong, and we should change it," the president declared.

The issue is extremely sensitive because nearly 3,000 illegal immigrants from El
Salvador and Guatemala face deportation after the expiration Monday of an
amnesty program.

The immigrants are seeking parity with Nicaragua and Honduras, which are covered
by more liberal rules.

The administration says it will make the policy more evenhanded through
administrative changes.

There is deep resentment over U.S. involvement in Guatemala's 36-year civil war
in which 200,000 people died or disappeared.

Clinton addressed the Salvadoran national legislature seven years after the end
of that nation's civil war in which at least 75,000 Salvadorans, mostly
civilians, were killed. That speech was intended to set the markers for a new
U.S. relationship with Central America as Clinton toured Nicaragua, Honduras, El
Salvador and Honduras.

The United States spent billions of dollars in the 1980s to finance Cold War-era
battles against leftist insurgents. Clinton recalled that period as a time that
provoked "bitter divisions about our role in your region."

"You have worked hard here in El Salvador to shed light on that dark and painful
period," he said.

"Now all of us as friends and partners can and must join in building a common
future, determined to remember the past but never to repeat it."

LOAD-DATE: July 8, 1999

LANGUAGE: English

GRAPHIC: PHOTO Photo by ASSOCIATED PRESS - President Bill Clinton addresses El
Salvador's Legislative Assembly in San Salvador on Wednesday. Clinton lauded El
Salvador's rebirth from the political strife of the 1980s.

                  Copyright 1999 St. Louis Post-Dispatch, Inc.


                              272 of 457 DOCUMENTS

                       St. Louis Post-Dispatch (Missouri)

                 April 25, 1999, Sunday, FIVE STAR LIFT EDITION

THOUSANDS OF KOSOVO REFUGEES WILL BE FLOWN TO U.S.

BYLINE: The Associated Press

SECTION: NEWS, Pg. A13

LENGTH: 321 words

DATELINE: WASHINGTON


Thousands of Kosovo refugees will be flown from Macedonia to the United States
where they will join relatives who immigrated earlier, White House officials
said Saturday.

Many of the refugees are being processed in Macedonia by the State Department
and U.S. immigration officials and then will be flown to New York and other
major American cities.

The United States is taking in about 20,000 Albanian Kosovars of the estimated
800,000 to 1 million who fled or were forced to leave Kosovo by Serb troops and
police.

Priority is being given to refugees with relatives in the United States.

Others will go to a U.S. military base, probably Fort Dix, N.J., before being
settled temporarily in Albanian communities in this country.

A Pentagon official said Fort Dix was tentatively selected Friday, after a
review of bases along the East Coast. Up to 2,000 refugees at a time would be
housed in dormitories there for a few days before moving on to host families.

The Pentagon is expected to formally announce the choice early this week, and
may also announce contingency plans for additional U.S. bases to handle any
overflow from Fort Dix, the official said.

More than 600,000 people, mostly ethnic Albanians, have fled Kosovo since NATO
began an air assault March 24 to try to stop Yugoslav President Slobodan
Milosevic's violent campaign in the Serbian province. Most have taken refuge in
neighboring countries, such as Albania and Macedonia.

The Clinton administration had ( the following did not appear in the paper with
this story -----

considered bringing some refugees to the U.S. Navy base at Guantanamo Bay, Cuba,
where sizable barracks had been built to house Cuban refugees who tried to
escape by sea to Florida.

That plan was dropped because permitting refugees to be with their families was
considered a more humanitarian way to handle the situation, Justice Department
officials said. )

LOAD-DATE: July 11, 1999

LANGUAGE: English

                  Copyright 1999 St. Louis Post-Dispatch, Inc.


                              273 of 457 DOCUMENTS

                       St. Louis Post-Dispatch (Missouri)

                 April 26, 1999, Monday, FIVE STAR LIFT EDITION

YUGOSLAV REFUGEES FIND SAFETY IN ST. LOUIS AFTER SURVIVING ATROCITIES;
LOCAL IMMIGRANTS FIND THEMSELVES PRAYING, MOURNING, DEBATING

BYLINE: Matthew Fernandes; Special To The Post-Dispatch

SECTION: WEST POST, Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1754 words


St. Louis is home to more than 10,000 immigrants with ties to the war-torn
former Yugoslavia.

Many fled their homeland after surviving a war that took the lives of loved ones
and wiped out their neighborhoods. Others defected long before Yugoslavia's
breakup of 1989 to seek dignity and opportunity - liberties unattainable under
brutal totalitarian regimes.

The recent NATO offensive and refugee crisis in Kosovo has ripped yet another
wound into the region. As the atrocities worsen and casualties pil e up, local
immigrants from the region once again find themselves praying, mourning and
heatedly debating a question that has proven unanswerable for nearly a decade:
How do we put out this fire?

During the first half of the 1990s, Bosnians Amir Kundalic and Edin Mandzuki
served as soldiers fighting against Slobodan Milosevic and his Serbian army. The
two, who now live and study in St. Louis, witnessed a kind of war-time savagery
that most of their American-born neighbors could never comprehend. They lost
close friends and neighbors during the 3 1/2-year war that culminated in the
Dayton Peace Accords in 1995. Both wholeheartedly support NATO's ongoing air
strikes and hope that Milosevic's war machine will be shut down.

Viewing from afar Milosevic's latest campaign to ethnically cleanse an area of
non-Serbs, Kundalic is reminded of his painful experiences in Bosnia.

"Many of my friends died," said Kundalic, who will graduate from Webster
University next month. "(Bosnians) were very brave. Every single Muslim lost
their job, including my parents. (Bosnians) were forced to do animal work. (Serb
soldiers) put them to work as grave diggers to bury their own neighbors . . .
put them in chains to dig trenches for them . . . used them as live shields
against the Bosnian army."

Lost hope

Although the extent of atrocities committed by Serbian forces has yet to be
determined, Kundalic and Mandzuki believe that the Kosovar refugees have
somewhat better prospects for survival than the Bosnian Muslims had.

"NATO has sped up the process," said Kundalic. "The bombings have helped because
many of those (refugees) would have been killed. At least they have a chance now
to leave. In Bosnia, we didn't have a choice."

While supporting NATO's recent efforts against Milosevic, Mandzuki and others
lament the West's relative inaction during the Bosnian war. The question, "Why
doesn't somebody do something?," echoed from the mouths of Bosnians on nightly
newscasts while the United Nations steadfastly cited its mandate of neutrality
in internal conflicts.

Mandzuki, with his fellow soldiers, felt they were at an unfair disadvantage.

"At the time, we were saying, 'At least lift the arms embargo so we can fight
for our freedom,"' said Mandzuki, who served in the Bosnian army for four years.
"Serbs already had everything they needed, so the embargo didn't really affect
them all that much."

"What happened in Srebrenica in 1996, nobody did a thing," said Kundalic,
referring to what has been called some of the worst attacks of the Bosnian war.
In July 1996, Bosnian Serbs forced some 40,000 Muslims from their homes in
Srebrenica. Mass graves containing the bodies of Muslims, most of them unarmed
men, were later found near the town.

"Now it is much easier. You have eight years of atrocities. There is common
ground" for an attack, he said.

A Bosnian student at a local university, who wished to remain anonymous, was
recently reunited with her parents in St. Louis after four years in exile. She
said the Bosnian anticipation that western forces would enter the fray evolved
into a sense of futility.

"There was always talk that NATO would bomb Serb sites," she said. "But after a
while, nobody believed that. Everyone lost hope that something was going to
happen."

Mandzuki disputes the notion that the NATO offensive has worsened the plight of
Kosovar Albanians, who signed the Rambouillet peace accords only to see their
villages ransacked after Milosevic refused to sign.

"Serbs wanted to force all Albanians out of Kosovo from the very be ginning,"
said Mandzuki. If NATO had not struck, the attacks on Albanians in Kosovo "would
have happened over a couple of years instead of a couple of months. The final
result would have been the same."

"Bratstvo i Jedinstvo"

Although tensions among ethnic groups were documented long before this
decade-long border struggle, some look back upon a period of tolerance and
peace.

The Bosnian student remembers a time when Bosnian Muslims, Croats and S erbs
lived in relative harmony.

"All my life I was taught that we are living in the best country in Europe," she
said. "We really lived nice. We would hitchhike with no problems. The main
generals and leaders were Serbs, but nobody cared. Overnight it all changed."

Mandzuki agrees. "I had friends who were Serbs, Croats . . . nobody cared" about
ethnic differences, said Mandzuki. "When (former Yugoslavian president Josip)
Tito was alive, nobody was allowed to say anything about others. There was no
open hatred."

To the Bosnian student, the Yugoslavian phrase, "Bratstvo i Jedinstvo"
("Brotherhood and Unity"), best describes her life in pre-war Yugoslavia. It was
the name of her elementary school and, ironically, the name of the main highway
between Zagreb and Belgrade.

The memories of communist Yugoslavia held by members of the previous generation
are not so rosy.

Sofija Pekic is a Croat who defected to the United States in 1966 and has owned
the Devonshire Inn, a South Side watering hole, since 1986. She felt the pain of
losing loved ones during the war, despite the distance created by time, space
and new experiences. Throughout the 1990s, she, with the Croatian St. Joseph's
Church, has organized periodic collections of food and clothing for people still
struggling in Croatia.

"People got along because they couldn't speak up" against the Serb-controlled
government, said Pekic. "Yugoslavia was really tough, really ugly."

In spite of Croatians' status as second-class citizens, Pekic said that people
from different ethnic groups generally tolerated each other.

"Kids played together, went to school together . . . we were a little separate,
but we lived together," she said.

Donna Gudic, who works for Pekic at the Devonshire Inn, slipped out of
Yugoslavia at the age of 15. She came to the United States and survived without
any contacts, without family or English language skills.

She learned at an early age the perils of life in Yugoslavia as a Catholic
Croatian.

"When I was in second grade, my parents told me to make a sign of the cross"
when walking past churches, Gudic said. "My teacher saw me doing this and took
out a big stick . . . I went home all bruised. My parents said, 'We meant for
you to do it only in your mind.' "

Views of Milosevic

Many hold Milosevic responsible for leading the former Yugoslavia down a path of
division, deceit and destruction. They point to his nationalistic speech in 1989
as causing the first split in relations among ethnic groups.

Delivering the speech on the site of an ancient battlefield where Ottoman Turks
invaded and defeated the Serbs in 1389, the newly elected President Milosevic
re-opened old wounds by declaring, "They'll never do this to you again. Never
again will anyone defeat you."

Soon after, Milosevic revoked Kosovo's regional autonomy and millions of Serbs
throughout Yugoslavia joined his nationalistic campaign.

"I know how the Turks conquered the Serbs, but that is ancient history," said
Kundalic. "It's like somebody going into Texas and saying, 'Remember the Alamo .
. . let's make Texas independent.' It doesn't make sense."

Kundalic and others say that Milosevic, determined to carve out a wide Serb
state, drove ahead without regard for Yugoslavia's many ethnic and cultural
populations. Some worry that if NATO were to back down now, he will set his
sights on neighboring countries such as Albania. Just recently, Serbian forces
shelled the Albanian border village of Kremica in a skirmish with Kosovo rebels.

"Milosevic is threatening the Albanian border," said Krener Mehmeti, an Albanian
immigrant who lives on the South Side with his wife and two young children.

Mehmeti, whose father spent 25 years in jail as a political prisoner, does not
mince words when describing Milosevic.

"We know what a dictator is," said Mehmeti, referring to his countrymen, who
endured nearly five decades of a brutal communist regime. "Milosevic is on the
same rung with Stalin, (Albanian dictator Enver) Hoxha, (Romanian dictator
Nicolae) Ceausescu and Hitler. This mission of NATO is humanitarian not only for
the people of Kosovo, but the whole world."

Mehmeti believes that Albania, which has its share of poverty and economic woes,
will harbor Kosovar refugees no matter the number.

"(Albanian Kosovars) are our brothers," he said. "(Albanians) sometimes can only
eat one meal each day, maybe just tomatoes and salt - but we will share these
tomatoes and salt with Kosovo's people."

The future

Local immigrants are divided on the question of whether the hundreds of
thousands of Kosovar refugees will be able to return to their homes - or if they
will even want to return.

"Very few people will go back to Kosovo. They've got nothing to go back to,"
said Pekic, referring to the probability that Serbian forces have ransacked
homes and apartments and destroyed refugees' personal belongings and papers. In
addition, Kosovars may have lost a huge portion of their population. Men of
potential fighting age have been conspicuously absent in the endless convoys of
refugees. Their whereabouts and livelihoods remain in question.

The Bosnian student is skeptical that refugees will return, especially if there
is even one Serbian soldier stationed in the province.

Three-and-a-half years after the Dayton peace accords, many Bosnian refugees
continue to stay away from their homeland.

"Bosnians are still afraid to go back," said the student, noting that Serbs
continue to maintain a dominant presence in many Bosnian towns and villages.
"When your neighbors kill your parents, would you go back? Could you go back and
live with them?"

Mehmeti, espousing an optimism that seems incongruous with the harsh
developments of the past month, has high hopes for his Albanian Kosovar
brethren.

"(The Kosovar refugees) can start over again," he said. "They will all go back
and build a beautiful democracy."

LOAD-DATE: April 28, 1999

LANGUAGE: English

GRAPHIC: PHOTO (The following photo appeared in black and white in the NORTH
POST Section only.)
 Color Photo by ANDREW CUTRARO / POST-DISPATCH - Greta Hensick hugs and kisses
teammate Sofija Peckic after the two won a close shuffleboard game in a
tournament at Peckic's bar, The Devonshire Inn, in St. Louis.

                  Copyright 1999 St. Louis Post-Dispatch, Inc.


                              274 of 457 DOCUMENTS

                       St. Louis Post-Dispatch (Missouri)

                 May 1, 1999, Saturday, FIVE STAR LIFT EDITION

POLICE DISCLOSE SEIZURE OF COUNTERFEIT FEDERAL ID CARDS

BYLINE: Tim O'Neil; Of The Post-Dispatch

SECTION: NEWS, Pg. 7

LENGTH: 561 words


* Blank Social Security cards and resident alien cards were found in a van
pulled over by St. Louis County officers in March.

Stacks of blank counterfeit federal ID cards from the largest confiscation ever
in Missouri were shown off Friday at St. Louis County Police headquarters in
honor of the two county officers who found the stash.

When the officers pulled over a full-sized van on Interstate 44 on March 3, they
found 20,000 Social Security cards and 14,000 resident alien cards hidden
throughout the van. Police didn't disclose the find for almost two months, until
Friday, to give federal agencies time to make other arrests.

Patrol Officer Jeremy Cantrell said he and his partner, James Schneider, stopped
the van late that night because they observed it weaving in traffic on eastbound
I-44 near the Allenton exit.

Cantrell said the driver of the van and his two passengers gave different
stories about what they were doing, so Cantrell and Schneider searched the van
with the driver's consent. Inside, they noticed that screws on the walls of the
van were mismatched and appeared to have been turned often.

Checking the linings of the walls and ceiling, they discovered sheets of the
printed cards, stacked and bound in plastic.

The confiscation was by far the largest in Missouri and among the biggest in the
Midwest, said Chester Moyer, officer in charge of the U.S. Immigration and
Naturalization Service in St. Louis. With phony Social Security cards and alien
identification cards going for as much as $ 300 a pair, Moyer said, the haul was
worth at least $ 2.5 million.

Moyer declined to identify the three people who were in the van that night but
said they probably were on a delivery route with many stops across the country.
The Chevrolet van had Illinois license plates.

Colin McCoy, special agent in charge of the Social Security enforcement office
here, praised the two officers for a thorough investigation.

"If they had not known what to be looking for, these documents would have
created big problems for all of us," McCoy said.

A ready market

The people who buy the blank cards from counterfeiters fill them out and sell
them to illegal immigrants and others, Moyer and McCoy said.

The buyers' motives can range from trying to get a job in the United States to
creating phony identities for obtaining bank accounts and credit cards, they
said.

A completed alien ID card includes a photograph of the holder. The combination
of a phony Social Security card and alien ID usually is enough for someone to
get a job, Moyer said.

McCoy added that the Social Security Administration can catch duplicated numbers
but usually not quickly enough to prevent scam artists from cashing in on
itinerant illegal immigrants seeking short-term jobs.

Chief of Police Ron Battelle said in a statement that after the seizure in St.
Louis County immigration officials delivered the counterfeit documents to their
destination outside Missouri. There they made several more arrests and seized a
printing press. The bust helped them identify a distribution network that
includes St. Louis. Further details were unavailable.

The immigration service believes the sheets of blank cards were printed in
Mexico, Moyer said. He said their quality was "fair to good," but good enough to
be useful on the underground market.

LOAD-DATE: May 1, 1999

LANGUAGE: English

GRAPHIC: PHOTO Photo by JACOB N. WARE/POST-DISPATCH - Some of the 34,000
counterfeit Social Security and resident alien cards confiscated in March by St.
Louis County Police in a traffic stop along Interstate 44.

                  Copyright 1999 St. Louis Post-Dispatch, Inc.


                              275 of 457 DOCUMENTS

                       St. Louis Post-Dispatch (Missouri)

                  May 4, 1999, Tuesday, FIVE STAR LIFT EDITION

SUPREME COURT MAKES IT EASIER TO DEPORT SOME IMMIGRANTS;
FEAR OF HARM AT HOME FOR NONPOLITICAL CRIMES CAN BE DISREGARDED, COURT SAYS

BYLINE: The Associated Press

SECTION: NEWS, Pg. A8

LENGTH: 510 words

DATELINE: WASHINGTON


A unanimous Supreme Court made it easier Monday for U.S. officials to deport
some illegal immigrants whose lives or freedom would be threatened in their home
countries.

A United Nations lawyer said the ruling could have international repercussions.

The justices limited federal courts' power to overrule immigration officials who
decide an immigrant should be deported because he or she committed "serious
nonpolitical crimes" outside the United States.

Even such a crime that was clearly linked to a political cause can result in a
decision to deport someone, Justice Anthony M. Kennedy said for the 9-0 court.

"A lack of proportion between means and ends may still render a crime
nonpolitical," he wrote.

The decision was a victory for the Clinton administration and a defeat for a
Guatemala man who entered the United States illegally in 1993 at San Ysidro,
Calif.

More broadly, the ruling could affect the treatment accorded other refugees in
this country and other nations as well.

Daniel Wolf, a lawyer for the United Nations high commissioner for refugees,
called the decision disappointing.

"Countries tend to follow the U.S. lead in this area," he said. "The standard
the court announced today is cause for concern. For example, a Kosovar refugee
who escaped after being targeted for execution by the government regime in
Yugoslavia could be legally returned to that country because of a crime of
vandalism, say burning a car, when he was a kid 20 years ago. That is the
implication of the Supreme Court decision."

U.S. law does not require the government to admit refugees.

But people who are already here - even illegally - generally cannot be forced to
leave if they have a reasonable fear of persecution.

An exception allows the deportation of people who have committed serious
nonpolitical crimes in another country.

The Guatemalan man, Juan Anibal Aguirre-Aguirre, said that from 1989 to 1992, he
led a student organization that protested human rights violations and the high
cost of bus fares. U.S. immigration officials said he was involved in burning 10
buses, hitting passengers with sticks if they did not cooperate by getting off,
and destroying merchandise in stores.

When immigration officials sought to deport him in 1994, he sought asylum and a
"withholding" of his deportation based on his fear of being persecuted in
Guatemala for his protests as a student.

An immigration judge in 1995 ruled for Aguirre, 25 at the time, but the Board of
Immigration Appeals reversed the judge and ordered Aguirre deported. The board
cited his "serious nonpolitical crimes."

The 9th U.S. Circuit Court of Appeals last year ordered the board to reconsider
the case, saying it must determine whether the danger Aguirre would face in
Guatemala makes his crime somehow less substantial. But Kennedy wrote, "It is
not obvious that an already-completed crime is somehow rendered less serious by
considering the further circumstance that the alien may be subject to
persecution if returned to his home country."

LOAD-DATE: July 12, 1999

LANGUAGE: English

                  Copyright 1999 St. Louis Post-Dispatch, Inc.


                              276 of 457 DOCUMENTS

                       St. Louis Post-Dispatch (Missouri)

                   May 5, 1999, Wednesday, THREE STAR EDITION

CUBAN PITCHING COACH IS SEEKING U.S. ASYLUM

BYLINE: The Associated Press

SECTION: SPORTS, Pg. D5

LENGTH: 597 words


A Cuban baseball coach skipped the flight home Tuesday after the game against
the Baltimore Orioles and asked for asylum in the United States.

Federal authorities were trying to determine whether six others who missed the
plane wanted to stay in the United States, too.

Rigoberto Herrera, a 54-year-old pitching coach, walked into the downtown police
headquarters Tuesday morning, a police spokesman said.

The lieutenant on duty, "through an interpreter, understood he was requesting
asylum and immediately notified INS officials," spokesman Robert Weinhold said.
The Immigration and Naturalization Service took custody of Herrera, he said.

Rep. Bob Menendez (D-N.J.), a foe of Fidel Castro's regime, said the man's full
name is Rigoberto Herrera Betancourt.

Menendez said two others may also have asked for asylum. That could not be
immediately confirmed.

The official Cuban government list of the delegation that traveled to Baltimore
included Rigoberto Betancourt. The government news agency said he was a
54-year-old retired pitcher.

He played Cuban baseball between 1965 and 1975 and was known for an excellent
curveball. Three times he was part of the national team - during the Central
American-Caribbean games in Puerto Rico in 1966, in the Pan Ame rican games in
Winnipeg in 1967 and during a tour of Mexico.

He most recently worked as a pitching trainer in a Havana province.

He was known as "el Pequeno Gigante del Box," which means the Little Big Man in
the Box.

Cuban officials denied that any members of the delegation had defected but said
six Cubans had overslept and missed the plane.

"We have no defectors," the spokesman for the Cuban diplomatic mission in
Washington, Luis Fernandez, told The Associated Press. "I have no information
that there are any defectors."

He said the six were planning to catch another flight home either Tuesday or
Wednesday.

In Washington, a senior administration official said the government was making
arrangements to talk to the six to learn whether they want to return
voluntarily.

The INS would not comment on possible defections or say if the agency had been
contacted by the six.

The Cuban all-stars won Monday's game 12-6.

Omar Linares, considered the island's greatest player, went four for four and
walked twice. Danel Castro, picked to play shortstop instead of star German
Mesa, had four hits, including two triples, and scored four runs.

Andy Morales delivered the clinching blow, a three-run homer to dead center
field in the ninth inning. He zoomed around the bases with his arms spread wide,
looking like a kid imitating an airplane. Zig-zagging his way home, he cheered
his teammates in the third-base dugout and pointed to the sky before he touched
the plate.

More than 300 Cubans were part of the delegation that attended the game. Besides
players, the delegation included journalists, retired ballplayers, ordinary
citizens, members of youth groups and outstanding students.

During a long speech welcoming the players at Havana University, Castro
criticized defections in general but gave no indication that anyone had stayed
behind.

The game, a rematch after the Orioles defeated the Cubans in Havana 3-2 on March
28, was surrounded by controversy. Hundreds of protesters gathered outside
Camden Yards to speak out against Castro, while a smaller group supporting the
lifting of sanctions against Cuba protested nearby.

During the game, a Cuban umpire punched and body-slammed a demonstrator who had
run onto the field carrying an anti-Castro sign.

LOAD-DATE: July 12, 1999

LANGUAGE: English

GRAPHIC: PHOTO ASSOCIATED PRESS Photo - After a protester carried an anti-Cuba
sign onto the field during Monday's game, second base umpire Cesar Valdez played
police on the field.

                  Copyright 1999 St. Louis Post-Dispatch, Inc.


                              277 of 457 DOCUMENTS

                       St. Louis Post-Dispatch (Missouri)

                  May 9, 1999, Sunday, FIVE STAR LIFT EDITION

FOUR WAYS TO TALK ABOUT THE NEWEST ST. LOUISANS

SECTION: IMAGINE ST. LOUIS, Pg. B5

LENGTH: 718 words


Unlike many other major metropolitan areas in the United States, the St. Louis
region hasn't received a large influx of newcomers from abroad in decades.
That's begun to change in recent years. Should St. Louis encourage more
immigrants and refugees to come here? Will they prove to be saviors for
long-neglected neighborhoods? Or will they bring new problems and exacerbate old
ones? Here are four perspectives on immigration to the St. Louis area. They can
help you discuss what role immigrants should have in the future of the region.

PERSPECTIVE #1

Immigrants make our region more vital, culturally and economically.

What's the problem?

Aging inner-city neighborhoods have seen people and businesses flee to the
suburbs at a record rate. Unemployment is low, so companies says that they need
workers.

What should be done?

Encourage immigrants to come to St. Louis by highlighting low living costs and
plentiful jobs. Help them get settled, find jobs and start businesses.

Why this course of action?

Immigrants tend to repopulate older sections, impress employers with their work
ethic and invest in boarded-up business districts. They also increase diversity
through the foods and customs they bring and maintain here.

What do critics say?

Immigrants may bring new bustle to the streets of the city, but that masks,
rather than helps solve, deeper urban woes. Anyway, they often move out to the
suburbs once they join the middle class.

PERSPECTIVE #2

The arrival of immigrants and refugees has a harmful impact on a region's
underclass.

What's the problem?

Many people already here are struggling to break free of poverty. Government,
schools and social-service agencies are already stressed to deal with urban
problems.

What should be done?

Curtail the record-high flood of legal immigrants and refugees and crack down
more effectively on illegal entries. Let's deal with existing problems and take
care of our own before we greet new arrivals with benefits and services.

Why this course of action?

Immigrants take low-wage jobs that poor Americans otherwise would fill. We need
to make sure there are jobs and services for the people here before we let in
other needy people.

What do critics say?

Immigrants often do the nation's dirty work, happily working at jobs most
Americans would not want. Many immigrants become successful soon; in the long
run, they create more jobs than they take.

PERSPECTIVE #3

Immigration is a threat to our national unity.

What's the problem?

The introduction of people who speak foreign languages and come from radically
different cultures leads to discord in our nation.

What should be done?

Restrict immigration and make sure that immigrants who do come are assimilated
into the dominant culture. Require them to learn English, for instance, instead
of catering to them by providing services and schooling in their native tongues.


Why this course of action?

Immigrants invariably blend into the melting pot; if they don't feel American
soon enough, then certainly their children are fully integrated into American
society. Give it time.

What do critics say?

Multiculturalism creates a society that is too diverse to be cohesive. Arrivals
also bring their Old World disputes and prejudices with them to the New World.

PERSPECTIVE #4

We should accept immigrants because we are a generous society, a nation of
immigrants.

What's the problem?

People from many countries either out of economic necessity or because they are
persecuted -- are forced to seek a better life or asylum abroad.

What should be done?

We should accept newcomers readily. This should be our consistent national
policy, regardless of whether they are a help or a hindrance to our national
economic prospects.

Why this course of action?

Welcoming immigrants is what Americans do, it is what the United States stands
for in the world. It's our responsibility as a prosperous nation to beckon "your
tired, your poor, your huddled masses."

What do critics say?

We should not make public policy that could jeopardize our own economic future
and our cultural unity out of respect for an out-of-date slogan on the Statue of
Liberty.

LOAD-DATE: May 10, 1999

LANGUAGE: English

                  Copyright 1999 St. Louis Post-Dispatch, Inc.


                              278 of 457 DOCUMENTS

                       St. Louis Post-Dispatch (Missouri)

                  May 9, 1999, Sunday, FIVE STAR LIFT EDITION

GROWING BEYOND THE MELTING POT : BIBLIOGRAPHY

SECTION: IMAGINE ST. LOUIS, Pg. B5

LENGTH: 141 words



Where you can get more information about immigration.

Books

* Fresh Blood: The New American Immigrants by Sanford J. Ungar (University of
Illinois Press, 1998).

* The Case Against Immigration: The Moral, Economic, Social and Environmental
Reasons for Reducing U.S. Immigration Back to Traditional Levels by Roy Howard
Beck (W.W. Norton & Co., 1996).

* Immigrants and the American City by Thomas Muller (New York University Press,
1994).

* Americans No More by Georgie Anne Geyer (Atlantic Monthly Press, 1996).

Online

* U.S. Census Bureau, www.census.gov

* U.S. Immigration and Naturalization Service, www.ins.usdoj.gov

* Center for Immigration Studies, www.cis.org

* National Immigration Forum, www.immigrationforum.org

* Federation for American Immigration Reform, www.fairus.org

LOAD-DATE: May 10, 1999

LANGUAGE: English

                  Copyright 1999 St. Louis Post-Dispatch, Inc.


                              279 of 457 DOCUMENTS

                       St. Louis Post-Dispatch (Missouri)

                  May 9, 1999, Sunday, FIVE STAR LIFT EDITION

GROWING BEYOND THE MELTING POT : DIRECTORY

SECTION: IMAGINE ST. LOUIS, Pg. B5

LENGTH: 128 words



To give or get ideas about immigration to the St. Louis area.

* The International Institute 3800 Park Avenue St. Louis, Mo. 63110-2514 (314)
773-9090 www.intlinst.org "Helping people from around the world become
self-sufficient St. Louisans" for 80 years.

* Accion Social Communitaria 3636 Fairview Avenue St. Louis, Mo. 63116 (314)
664-5565 Operates a free health clinic with help from Spanish-speaking doctors
at La Iglesia, a United Methodist congregation.

* Southside Catholic Community Services 2647 Ohio Street St. Louis, Mo. 63118
(314) 773-6100

* Que Pasa St. Louis? Patricia Lange, editor PO Box 2052 St. Peters, Mo. 63376
(314) 503-6902 plange@mail.win.org A bilingual newspaper with information about
the St. Louis Hispanic community.

LOAD-DATE: May 10, 1999

LANGUAGE: English

                  Copyright 1999 St. Louis Post-Dispatch, Inc.


                              280 of 457 DOCUMENTS

                       St. Louis Post-Dispatch (Missouri)

                  May 9, 1999, Sunday, FIVE STAR LIFT EDITION

GROWING BEYOND THE MELTING POT : DATA

SECTION: IMAGINE ST. LOUIS, Pg. B5

LENGTH: 139 words


Fewer immigrants The percentage of St. Louisans who were born abroad has
declined continuously, for as long as the government has kept count. An influx
this decade of immigrants from Mexico and refugees from Bosnia, southeast Asia,
Kurdistan, Somalia and other places could reverse this 150-year trend with the
2000 census.

Attracting immigrants

Top and bottom rankings of the 50 largest cities by percentage of foreign-born
residents in total population. Only Memphis, Indianapolis and Nashville have a
lower percentage of foreign-born residents than St. Louis.

An increasing presence

Between 1990 and 1998, the Census Bureau estimates that the St. Louis metro area
has seen a net influx of 22,128 people who have moved here from other nations.
Most of those have found homes in St. Louis and St. Louis County.

LOAD-DATE: May 10, 1999

LANGUAGE: English

GRAPHIC: GRAPHIC, MAP (1) Graphic / Line Chart - (from 1870 to 1990 showing the
declining numbers of foreign born St. Louis residents with the 1990 number at
2.5%.
 (2) Graphic / Bar Chart - Where they live
 1. Miami - 59.7%
 2. Los Angeles - 38.4%
 3. San Francisco - 34.0%
 4. New York - 28.4%
 5. San Jose - 26.5%

 (3) Graphic / Bar Chart - Where they don't
 46. Cincinnati - 2.76%
 47 St. Louis - 2.53%
 48. Nashville - 2.45%
 49. Indianapolis - 1.9%
 50. Memphis - 1.4%
 Source: U.S. Census Bureau

 (4) Map by St. Louis POST-DISPATCH - St. Louis city
 Net international migration - 10,895
 Change in total population -  -57,369
 Growth from international migration - percentage not applicable

 (5) Map by St. Louis POST-DISPATCH - St. Louis County
 Net international migration - 8,708
 Change in total population - 5,188
 Growth from international migration - 167.8%

 (6) Map by St. Louis POST-DISPATCH - St. Louis metro area
 Net international migration - 22,128
 Change in total population - 71,453
 Growth from international migration - 31.0%

 (7) Map by St. Louis POST-DISPATCH - United States
 Net international migration - 6.7 million
 Change in total population - 21.5 million
 Growth from international migration - 31.1%

                  Copyright 1999 St. Louis Post-Dispatch, Inc.


                              281 of 457 DOCUMENTS

                       St. Louis Post-Dispatch (Missouri)

                  May 9, 1999, Sunday, FIVE STAR LIFT EDITION

GROWING BEYOND THE MELTING POT

BYLINE: Dan Mihalopoulos; Of The Post-Dispatch

SECTION: IMAGINE ST. LOUIS, Pg. B1

LENGTH: 2426 words


Unless you are a Native American dwelling in this region, you have immigrant
roots. How do we look at the issue of immigration today, when the numbers are
increasing again? Do those whose family trees grow from roots planted here in
the 19th century remember their immigrant origins? How do you feel about new
neighbors from afar?

Nineteenth-century St. Louis was an immigrant magnet.

But for a hundred years, the percentage of St. Louisans born abroad has declined
steadily. Only one of 50 people in the metro area was born outside the United
States, the 1990 census reported.

Now, new residents from Bosnia, Mexico and Vietnam, as well as Somalia,
Ethiopia, Albania and other distant lands, are reversing the trend, as next
year's census is expected to prove.

The allure of St. Louis is simple: the region's low cost of living and its
plentiful jobs draw immigrants and refugees here. Why should they go to more
expensive places when it's become relatively easy to put down roots and thrive
here?

New arrivals from foreign nations accounted for 31 percent of the region's net
population growth between 1990 and last year. For the first time, analysts say,
that figure is roughly in line with the national average.

In a period when the city of St. Louis lost one of seven residents, about 11,000
immigrants helped offset the flight of longtime St. Louisans and businesses,
too.

In St. Louis County, the arrival of more than 8,700 immigrants in the same
period has played a key role in staving off a population decline.

The results of immigration are most visible in several city neighbo rhoods.
That's where many new arrivals settle, and merchants catering to them soon
follow. Consider:

Years of neglect turned the once-popular shopping district on Cherokee Street
into a haven for prostitution. Now, immigrant restaurateurs, bakers and butchers
are restoring the neighborhood as the new Main Street for tens of thousands of
Mexicans dispersed throughout the area.

Similarly, refugees from Bosnia are getting credit for rising home values and
reborn storefronts farther south, in neighborhoods near the Bevo Mill.

The Mexicans on Cherokee and the Bevo Bosnians are repeating what Vietnamese
refugees and other Asians accomplished along South Grand Boulevard.

Asians figured prominently among the first entrepreneurs to set up shop there in
the 1980s. Many other, more mainstream businesses since have joined the ethnic
restaurants and shops in a trendy section now touted as "Grand South Grand."

Those who welcome the new St. Louisans say immigrants can help rebuild decayed
neighborhoods and increase diversity in what for years has been almost
exclusively a black-white town.

Joel Kotkin, senior fellow at the Pepperdine Institute for Public Policy in
Southern California, visited St. Louis recently.

"In Los Angeles, New York, Chicago, Houston and other cities, immigrants have
been a huge component of either an urban recovery or the lack of a total urban
decline -- like you see in St. Louis, to be frank," Kotkin said.

Could the newcomers indeed be the answer to reviving the region's deteriorating,
historic core? Should we work to attract more immigrants? Should we help them
find housing, jobs and schooling, even providing services in their languages?

Or will more immigrants just create more inner-city problems?

Critics of immigration warn that absorbing new arrivals can threaten our
nation's unity and drain its resources. They contend that immigrants enjoy
overnight success at the expense of the poor who were here before them.

Some fear that mixing in disparate cultural influences will make it harder still
for everyone to get along. Can the nation stay united as it shifts from being a
country of predominantly European makeup to one that is truly pluralistic?

Nevertheless, how we deal with the newcomers could prove to have a significant
impact on our region's future development -- both in the city and the suburbs.

A history of immigrants

In 1850, almost half of St. Louisans were born abroad. Their legacy is still
noticeable in the names of the Catholic churches in the city's oldest
neighborhoods.

Exactly 551 walking steps from the German Gothic church of St. Francis de Sales,
Czech immigrants built St. Wenceslaus. The Hungarians settled into St. Mary of
Victories on Chouteau's Landing. Croatians founded St. Joseph in Soulard. And
the Poles who worked at the factories along the Mississippi River just north of
downtown built St. Stanislaus.

Yet, as the city's fortunes waned, immigrants decided to land elsewhere.  St.
Louis did not enjoy the same influx as other major cities, neither at the turn
of the century nor in the post-war period.

The percentage of St. Louisans born abroad dropped continuously in every census
taken between 1850 and 1990 -- from 49 percent to 2.5 percent. Across the entire
area, that number is even lower: 2 percent.

At last, a significant wave of immigrants is making its way here. A major factor
is the unemployment rate. At 3.3 percent, it's at a 30-year low, even lower than
the national average. That means jobs are waiting for willing workers.

Vietnamese refugees represented the first major influx in recent times. They, as
well as others from Thailand, Laos and throughout southeast Asia, settled along
South Grand Boulevard. By the late 1980s, the area had become known as a growing
"Asiatown."

More recently, the biggest influx has been of Bosnians. Credible estimates of
their numbers range from 10,000 to 20,000. They're doing so well that many
encourage their relatives and friends from other cities in the United States and
abroad to make a "secondary migration" to St. Louis.

Reviving neighborhoods

The infusion of fresh blood is transforming neighborhoods. That's a good reason
why the region should encourage and welcome more newcomers, say those who work
with immigrants and refugees.

Attracted by the low cost of housing as well as cheap commercial rents,
immigrants are helping repopulate older sections and reinvesting in boarded-up
business districts.

"They have a place in the solution to the city's problems," said Anna Crosslin,
president of the International Institute. The agency in south St. Louis helps
refugees and immigrants get situated in their new hometown.

Bosnian immigrants are converting a large swath of the city's south side into a
little Sarajevo.

Bosnian-owned businesses cluster around the Bevo Mill, along Gravois Avenue.
Within shouting distance of the landmark German restaurant, there are three
Bosnian restaurants, a Bosnian beauty salon and the Europa-Market grocery.
Southern Commercial Bank, across Gravois from the grocery, a banner greets
customers in English and Bosnian: "Welcome .o.o. Dobro Dosli."

A few miles from the Bosnian enclave, Pat Brannon, the president of the Cherokee
Business Association, says the neighborhood welcomes immigrant entrepreneurs.

"The Mexican merchants have been a real shot in the arm for Cherokee," Brannon
said. "We have big crowds from all over the St. Louis area every Sunday."

People in south St. Louis used to say if you couldn't find it on Cherokee
Street, you couldn't find it anywhere. Today, if you can't find an authentic
taco de chicharron or a particular ranchera cassette on Cherokee, you likely
can't find it anywhere in the St. Louis area.

El Rio Grande is the oldest Mexican restaurant in the neighborhood. The Tienda
Latino American, an ever-expanding grocery, has operated on Cherokee for about
10 years. Next door, the homey La Choza restaurant opened a few weeks ago.

Heading east, you'll find the El Torito "grosery," including a butcher shop. A
couple of doors down, American shoppers who wander into the La Mexicana clothing
store look disoriented to learn that the "western wear" advertised in the shop
window means Mexican cowboy attire.

Further east, Bernabe "Chico" Rivera opened the fragrant Panaderia Chico bakery
a year ago with the money he saved working 25 years at the old American Can Co.
factory.

Taqueria Azteca is a door over from the bakery. In classic
immigrant-entrepreneur fashion, Jose Luis Garcia, wife Patricia and their three
young children live in the flat above their family business. The
husband-and-wife team are almost always at the restaurant, and the children's
playground is the sidewalk in front of the Taqueria Azteca.

Father Michael Murphy, who was the Garcias' parish priest at St. Francis de
Sales Church for the past year, noted that history is repeating itself in
near-south St. Louis.

The 400 Mexican families that live near Cherokee are the main reason why St.
Francis isn't joining the ranks of dormant city churches. "This area has become
an immigrant neighborhood again," said Murphy, a Spanish-speaking
Irish-American. "There's a lot of life, a lot of hope."

Straining the system?

Gaining hope hasn't come without pain; many immigrants have trouble adjusting to
life in the United States.

And that means they typically need help from social-service agencies, schools
and the government. Critics point to the cost of such help and to the great
strains already put on the social-service system by people who lived here long
before the immigrants and refugees came on the scene.

In the Tiffany neighborhood, an area once full of Serb immigrants, the Bosnians
attend English classes. They learn basic skills such as how to pay their bills.
They hear about job opportunities. And they keep the International Institute's
seven Bosnian caseworkers -- each serving about 500 clients -- busy all day.

From the institute, it's a 20-minute bus ride to where many Bosnians live. Last
week, Bosnians newly arrived from Germany filled the back half of the No. 80
Southampton bus at about 4 p.m.

"We have nothing except the International Institute ... and food stamps," said
Merema Seferagic, 23.

Still, she's eager to become an American.

"Why not?" she says, smiling.

Here less than two months and not yet fluent in English, Seferagic and her
sister Sadija, 21, already want to know how much it costs to go to college in
St. Louis. Once they improve their English, they want to start working on
university degrees.

Ann Rynearson, director of cross-cultural services for the International
Institute, called the idea that immigrants drain the welfare system an urban
myth. "They get the same thing as everyone else," Rynearson said.

New arrivals can receive government benefits for as long as seven months.
According to institute officials, 85 percent of refugees served by the institute
are working within four months.

The language barrier

Not surprisingly, the biggest barrier for newcomers is language.

Paying to provide English instruction for immigrants or bilingual instructors in
our schools does not necessarily mean that all newcomers will take advantage of
the opportunity. Even when they know that English is crucial to their chances of
success in their new country, some say they don't have time to take classes.

Ron Klutho, who teaches English to many refugees, said some Bosnians are not
making a real effort to learn, instead barricading themselves among their
compatriots. The biggest concentration of Bosnians lives in an area bounded by
Kingshighway, Chippewa Street, Gravois and Hampton Avenue.

"They've created a ghetto," Klutho said. "It's very insular. I'm very frustrated
because they seem to be content working on the line when they could be
supervisors or managers if they knew English. They have to see there's a better
world beyond Kingshighway and beyond Chippewa.

"They've completely recreated Bosnia in south St. Louis."

Although an ethnic neighborhood can ease the immigrant's transition into
American society, it also can act as a crutch, said Mark Krikorian, executive
director of the Center for Immigration Studies, a think tank in Washington.

Immigrants inevitably cluster into enclaves. But spreading them among the
broader population, Krikorian said, not only helps them learn English faster,
but also makes it less likely that the newcomers will create social tensions.

Leaving the poor behind

In addition to the potential for cultural disunity, pressures created by job
competition and economic disparities between recent immigrants and working poor
people have flared into violence in several U.S. cities -- though not St. Louis.
The most well-known incidents were during the 1992 riots in south-central Los
Angeles, when armed Korean merchants battled their African-American neighbors.

New arrivals often do the nation's dirty work, eagerly taking low-wage jobs.
Though a thriving economy and low unemployment may soothe competitive tensions,
some immigrants may be taking jobs that would be filled otherwise by the poor --
including African-Americans.

How to help immigrants without making problems worse for those struggl ing to
escape poverty challenges many communities that are already seeing the results
of massive immigration.

And some say the record numbers of immigrants -- legal and illegal -- must be
slowed so we can take care of our own first.

"Immigrants make poor blacks in the city irrelevant," Krikorian said. "We have
obligations to our own poor that supersede obligations to anybody else. There is
a basic disregard of our responsibility of nationhood."

Looking to the future

The full effects of immigration have not been a focus of great attention here,
at least not yet.

St. Louis does not rival Miami, New York or Los Angeles as a draw for
immigrants. Or even Dallas, Phoenix or Boston, for that matter.

But that ranking doesn't lessen the importance of our coming to terms with the
region's new immigrant communities and the role they will play in our future.

From South Grand to Cherokee and the Bevo Mill -- and onto neighborhoods
throughout the area -- immigrants surely will have a greater influence on our
region.

Once an immigrant group becomes established in an area, the city's reputation as
a hub for a given ethnic group quickly spreads. This "chain migration," for
example, is causing the Bosnian community to blossom fast.

Kotkin, of Pepperdine University, predicts that the immigrants -- and
particularly their sons and daughters -- will join the mainstream before long,
becoming leaders of the entire community. "If St. Louis is going to h ave a
future -- and that's very much in doubt -- it's in places like South Grand that
you're going to see that future incubated."

LOAD-DATE: May 10, 1999

LANGUAGE: English

GRAPHIC: PHOTO, MAP (1) Color PHOTO by KAREN ELSHOUT / POST-DISPATCH - At last
Sunday's Hispanic service at St. Francis de Sales Catholic Church in south St.
Louis, Rafael Orozco tried to console his niece, six-month-old Sandra Lourdes,
by rocking her in his arms and strolling the church's courtyard. Religious
institutions have always played central roles in immigrants' lives here.
 (2) Color Map by POST-DISPATCH - Immigrant business districts
 General view - (city of St. Louis)
 (Detail view - area shown is from Hampton Ave. to Jefferson Ave., Tower Grove
Park to Delor with Asian, Mexican, and Bosnian neighborhoods color shaded)

                  Copyright 1999 St. Louis Post-Dispatch, Inc.


                              282 of 457 DOCUMENTS

                       St. Louis Post-Dispatch (Missouri)

                  May 9, 1999, Sunday, FIVE STAR LIFT EDITION

IMMIGRANT'S MOTTO: "YOU WORK HARD, YOU CAN MAKE IT."

BYLINE: Dan Mihalopoulos; Of The Post-Dispatch

SECTION: IMAGINE ST. LOUIS, Pg. B1

LENGTH: 672 words


* A kind gesture from an area man helped spur Thai to gain financial success
here.

When Suchin Prapaisilp came to the United States 25 years ago, he worked three
jobs. At 4 a.m., he made doughnuts. From 8 a.m. to 5 p.m., he worked a factory
job. From 5:30 p.m. to midnight, he was a bus boy.

On his first Christmas Eve in the United States, though, he found he had nothing
to do. With no relatives in this country, except his brother, he decided to take
a fourth job: delivering phone books.

An older man, an American, asked the lonely 22-year-old Thai immigrant why he
was working and without a coat on a frigid Christmas Eve. He invited him in for
a cup of coffee.

"That made me feel so good," Prapaisilp recalled. "After that, I always stopped
by to see him when I could."

Today, Praipasilp rubs his shoulders when recounting drinking that cup of
coffee, still warmed by the gesture. He is standing in an aisle of his shiny new
supermarket, Global Foods Market, in Kirkwood, a long way from the difficult
first steps toward his American dream.

Between Prapaisilp, his brother Supat and their sister, Vilai Intratip, the
family now owns and operates three restaurants and two groceries across the St.
Louis area.

The mini business empire all started on South Grand Boulevard, in an old-school
commercial strip near Tower Grove Park. Within a year of Praipaisilp's arrival
in St. Louis, he and older brother Chatchai opened their first store, Jay Asia.

"South Grand didn't have much business going on at that time," said Prapaisilp,
a slight man usually called "Mr. Suchin."

The Prapaisilp brothers opened Jay Asia on South Grand to be close to foreign
students at St. Louis University.

In 1986, Jay Asia moved to a bigger space on South Grand and became Jay
International Food Inc. The market features products from all Asian countries,
as well as other lands. By the time Jay Asia moved, the Prapaisilps had opened a
Thai restaurant, the still-thriving King & I, in the burgeoning Asian
neighborhood.

"With the King & I, we got some people who never come to the city to come to
South Grand," Prapaisilp said.

The family also opened two sister restaurants outside the neighborhood: the Thai
Cafe and Thai Country Cafe, both on Delmar Boulevard and both run by brother
Supat.

Other restaurants and shops, mostly Vietnamese, soon sprouted along Sou th Grand
between Gravois Road and Arsenal Street.

Now South Grand is much more than the Asian section of St. Louis. Bars, diners,
coffee shops, hair salons, trendy shops, a St. Louis Bread Co., a pasta
restaurant with tattooed waiters, even a French bistro -- every aspect of a new
bohemia has joined the Asian businesses.

Neighborhood activists say only about 20 percent of the businesses in the "Grand
South Grand" area today are Asian businesses. And some of the former refugees
and their families have since moved to the suburbs.

Prapaisilp is going with the flow. Global Foods Market caters to virtually every
ethnic group.

Half of the grocery is reserved for exclusively ethnic products; Prapaisilp
drapes flags of foreign countries over these aisles. The other half of the
grocery, under American flags, looks a lot like your typical U.S. grocery.

That way, in one stop, immigrant parents can buy an entire halal lamb or chicken
feet for themselves and Cocoa Puffs for the American-born kids.

For the past three months, as he readied the store for opening, Prapaisilp has
not taken a day off.

In a shirt, tie, slacks and gym shoes, he hurries around the store, handling
every issue in a scarcely audible voice.

A U.S. citizen for 20 years, Prapaisilp smiled when he was asked if his friends
from his homeland rib him about his success in America. "Yeah, but I tell them
it's not easy," he said.

Prapaisilp vows to slow down; he said he will work just six days a week, 14
hours a day, to spend more time with his three children.

"I like this country because anyone has a chance," he said. "You work hard, you
can make it."

LOAD-DATE: May 10, 1999

LANGUAGE: English

GRAPHIC: PHOTO Color PHOTO by KAREN ELSHOUT / POST-DISPATCH - Suchin Prapaisilp,
owner of Global Foods Market in Kirkwood, organizes the stock at his new store.
He, his brother and their sister own and operate three restaurants and two
groceries in the region.

                  Copyright 1999 St. Louis Post-Dispatch, Inc.


                              283 of 457 DOCUMENTS

                       St. Louis Post-Dispatch (Missouri)

                  May 9, 1999, Sunday, FIVE STAR LIFT EDITION

HOW TO JOIN THE IMMIGRATION CONVERSATION

SECTION: IMAGINE ST. LOUIS, Pg. B1

LENGTH: 509 words


The 19th century saw waves of immigrants coming to St. Louis, which the
18th-century French settlers named for Louis IX, King of France. The French were
followed by the English and the Irish and the Germans, by Italians, by African
Americans who migrated north from the former slave states of the South, by
Asians, Mexicans, and currently, refugee immigrants from Eastern Europe.

Please join our conversation and let us know your feelings about St. Louis as a
home for immigrants. Here are some ways to reach us. Next Sunday, we'll publish
some of your ideas.

WRITE IN OR CALL

Please Note: Unless you clearly tell us NOT to use your mail or telephone
messages, all or in part, we will consider them available for publication.

* Send us a letter:

Imagine St. Louis

St. Louis Post-Dispatch

900 N. Tucker Blvd.

St. Louis, Mo. 63101

* Send us an e-mail:

imaginestl@postnet.com

* Send us a fax:

(314) 340-3050

* Call us at POSTline:

Call 923-2323, tap in 4045.

JOIN US ON

There are three ways to do this through the online edition of the Post-Dispatch,
at

www.postnet.com/imagine

Participate in the Imagine Forum at

www.postnet.com/imagineforum

Reporters will be monitoring the discussion there throughout the week, trying to
gauge what's on people's minds about immigration and what kinds of reporting
will be most helpful when Imagine comes back to this issue again.

If you or the people you're talking with need to know more facts to make your
decision about an Imagine issue, ask us to find the facts for you at

imaginefacts@postnet.com

TALK ON THE AIR

Reporter Dan Mihalopoulos will discuss immigration and St. Louis.

WHERE: City Corner A.M. with Mel and Dave, Channel 16 (St. Louis city only).

WHEN: 9:30 a.m., Tuesday.

VISIT AN OPEN HOUSE

For many immigrants to St. Louis, the International Institute of Metropolitan
Saint Louis is the first social-service organization to offer help and hope in a
strange, new place. On Tuesday, the International Institute opens its doors to
the community and asks you to join in a community conversation about immigration
and its impact on this region. This will be Imagine St. Louis's first
quadrilingual conversation: in addition to English, translators will be
available to carry the conversation along in Spanish, Bosnian and Vietnamese.

WHERE: International Institute, 3800 Park Avenue (just west of Grand Boulevard)

WHEN: 6:30-8 p.m., Tuesday, May 11

PHONE: (314) 773-9090

STRIKE UP A CONVERSATION

Music is a universal language, but it speaks many dialects, Bosnian and Mexican
among them. The Missouri History Museum is making music from both those
traditions part of its Twilight Tuesday's program, and everyone's invited to
talk to the folks who'll be on hand to hear accordianist Mensur Hatic and
Mariachi Los Compadres.

WHERE: Missouri History Museum Lindell at DeBaliviere, Forest Park

WHEN: 6:30-8:30 p.m., Tuesday, May 25

LOAD-DATE: May 9, 1999

LANGUAGE: English

GRAPHIC: GRAPHIC Color Graphic / Logo - (postnet.com)

                  Copyright 1999 St. Louis Post-Dispatch, Inc.


                              284 of 457 DOCUMENTS

                       St. Louis Post-Dispatch (Missouri)

                  May 16, 1999, Sunday, FIVE STAR LIFT EDITION

YOUR LETTERS

SECTION: IMAGINE ST. LOUIS, Pg. B5

LENGTH: 1268 words



Immigrants make us vibrant

America's vibrant because America has always been an immigrant magnet. This is
partially because immigrants have always viewed America as a vibrant land full
of opportunities. Part of the reason America is a vibrant land full of
opportunities is because of the immigrants themselves.

Most immigrants come to America determined to make a better life than the one
they left behind in their former war-torn, plague-ridden, religiously persecuted
or otherwise undesirable environments. To be sure, some immigrants cannot handle
the culture shock of a move to America and never learn English or recover to
become productive citizens. But their offspring, schooled in American values and
able to negotiate the complexities of life in modern America, tend to thrive.

If St. Louis is to reverse its population decline and become the world-class
city it once was, it must actively recruit more immigrants. St. Louis cannot
afford to sit back and hope that immigrants and nonimmigrants are attracted to
the city. They must actively recruit the winning team that will bring St. Louis
back to the population magnet it once was.

Ralph Rice

St. Louis

Policies need rethinking

The immigration matter ought to be considered in the context of a national
policy about population. World population is expanding at an alarming rate and
threatens stability in many parts of the world. The industrial nations appear to
have reached some reasonable birth-rate balance, but there will be increasing
pressures from those countries that have the combination of high birth rate and
lower standard of living to relocate the underserved people to the developed
nations.

The United Nations is struggling with this problem against many problems with
nationalistic and religious groups. In the meantime, the U.S. ought to have some
idea as to what an optimal population size is. It will give a sense of direction
and will provide a rational base for dealing with emotion-driven problems of
both legal and illegal immigration, humanitarian need, environmental
preservation, family planning and education goals.

Such a policy should not be a rigid one, but it ought to give the deci
sion-makers some basis for intelligent approach to a difficult problem.

David A. Gee

Brentwood

Global population crisis

Our population continues to escalate at an alarming rate each year. We have a
crisis that needs addressing now.

It took over 100 years for the global population to increase from 1 billion to 2
billion people. At the present, we are increasing population at the rate of 1
billion per 12 years. By October of this year, we will reach 6 billion people.
Left unchecked, the global population will reach 12 billion by 2045.

Since 1970, the number of immigrants in this country has tripled from 9.6
million to 26.3 million. This is a 33 percent increase in 29 years. The 8.6
million immigrants who arrived between 1990 and 1998 represent 42 percent of the
20.4 million increase in our total population for that time period. Immigrants
and births to immigrant women account for 70 percent of the entire U. S.
population since 1990.

We are over-burdening the Earth and sacrificing the quality of life for future
generations. We have an obligation to ourselves and future generations.

We need to decrease immigration substantially. Also, we should demand that our
elected officials address this crisis now. Churches need to change their
doctrines, and we all need to urge Congress to support sensible population
policies.

Diana M. Hart

Chesterfield

In favor of immigration

Well, I'm glad to see people from other countries come here -- first, 1 percent
usually come here and work hard. Then the rest of the family all come here. They
were on the low end of the pole over there. They came and all helped and they
worked hard and learn the language.

My dad was Greek. He had no money when he got here, he washed dishes in
restaurants. Later he laid railroad ties -- better money but hard work. Then he
opened his own restaurant. He never could have got that in Greece. He was a
sheep herder there. He got his two brothers here, and they prospered. So I'm in
favor of immigrants.

(No Signature)

Against immigration

We were just talking about this problem at the office today -- and not
favorably.

We are all afraid of saying what we'd like to really say aloud!

We have way too many foreigners coming to this country now. Our kids can't get
into medical school because of the influx of foreigners in the schools.

I think they should all stay in their own countries and fight, or whatever it
takes to change their own homelands if they are not happy with the way things
are there.

Also, they are receiving all kinds of financial assistance from our government.

Plus, I think the borders of our country should be manned by volunteers to keep
Mexicans, etc. away from our borders (obviously, there are not enough policemen
to man all the length of the borders).

Yes, yes, I know -- our grandparents, etc. were immigrants -- but this is 1999
and things are different!

Sorry -- I'm not leaving my name, etc. I don't want to hear from the opposition,
and I'm in a job where I may have to work with them.

A Fed Up Reader

Misconceptions about St. Francis de Sales

Since April of this year, you have been writing feature articles concerning
diversity, melting pot and how religious institutions play central roles in
immigrants' lives. In all of these feature articles, you print large pictures
focusing St. Francis de Sales Catholic Church or Notre Dame Elementary. In all
of these feature articles, you take photographs of the Latinos as if they are
the only nationality involved and as if they are the only ones who are
supporting the church and school.

First of all, there are only a very few Latinos who are actually parishoners of
St. Francis de Sales Catholic Church. Most of the people that come to the
Spanish Mass came from Florissant, Ferguson, West County, etc. The interest is
not shown in the St. Francis de Sales parish participation. They are not
interested in coming to St. Francis de Sales Catholic Church because of the
English community, which was established by the German founders who were also
immigrants.

You mention in your article that the South Grand area is Asian. There are
numerous businesses that are of Asian ethnic taste. Again, only a few of these
people live in the area.. I live just west of South Grand and the area is
predominantly occupied by senior citizens that have lived there all their lives
and professional people moving in because of a transfer in their jobs or because
they enjoy, as we do, the diversity and convenience of the city.

I point out these misconceptions and attempts to alter what is really happening
because St. Francis de Sales was founded April 22, 1867, by German immigrants.
The descendants of these earlier immigrants also made sacrifices to continue the
growth of St. Francis de Sales. Today, there are as many as 525 families, most
of whom no longer live in the area who continue to maintain the church with
their physical and monetary help.

As a Christian, I welcome the Latinos as well as any of God's people. It is most
disturbing that the impression that your paper gives is that the Latinos are the
only ones in the melting pot and the only ones that will save St. Francis de
Sales Catholic Church and Notre Dame Elementary School.

Patricia A. Carr

Parishioner of St. Francis de Sales

St. Louis

LOAD-DATE: July 13, 1999

LANGUAGE: English

                  Copyright 1999 St. Louis Post-Dispatch, Inc.


                              285 of 457 DOCUMENTS

                       St. Louis Post-Dispatch (Missouri)

                  May 16, 1999, Sunday, FIVE STAR LIFT EDITION

ETHNICITY INVISIBLE - UNTIL FESTIVAL TIME

BYLINE: Ann  M. Rynearson

SECTION: IMAGINE ST. LOUIS, Pg. B5

LENGTH: 630 words


The melting pot is boiling over! Long known as a city in Black and White, St.
Louis today is increasingly diverse, due largely to growing numbers of refugees
and immigrants.

Yet one might well wonder what all the fuss is about. The man or woman walking
down the street or taking the elevator may have a slightly different skin tone
and hair color but seems otherwise largely indistinguishable from the rest of
the population. What and where is the growing cultural diversity so praised and
condemned by the popular press?

Our ideas about ethnicity are still largely formed around images of life in
immigrant ghettoes of the 19th and early-20th century. We tend to assume that
all those who share a particular cultural identity will also have a distinct
language, lifestyle, religion, dress and the like. All or most members of an
ethnic group must live close to one another, have similar jobs in similar
companies and act together in the political arena.

If it exists at all today, this lifestyle is found only in ethnic enclaves on
the East and West Coasts. Immigrants come to this country to join family members
or for a job in a labor-short industry. Most of them live scattered throughout
the affluent western and northern suburbs of the area. It is rare for more than
one household of the same ethnic group to live on a block. True, they continue
to lead an active life as members of ethnic communities, but it is ethnicity by
commute. It's almost invisible i n everyday life.

So where's the diversity? It's there. It's really there. It just doesn't take
the forms you might expect. There's the 10-year-old girl who can't go swimming
with her friends on Sunday afternoon. She's going to the Chinese Language
School, and no absences are allowed.

There's Native American grandmother Delores Santha telling the stories of their
people to a sleepy child. She may have to tell them in English, but the child is
still learning his culture.

It's the Peruvian Society hosting a Picnic con anticuchos y choripanes in
Kirkwood Park. They're raising money for a medical mission in their homeland.

There's Kenya Ajanaku leading drum classes, mesmerizing restless 5-year-old boys
at the Harambee Institute, creating incredible musical discipline as well as a
love for African traditions from an early, early age.

Don't you see it? No, you can't. That's the private side to ethnic life in St.
Louis today. That's where cultural traditions really live -- backstage, out of
sight but growing and changing. Except under special circumstances, outsiders
never even know about this side of life.

Then how can we all learn about these many rich cultural traditions that ethnic
groups (including Anglo Americans) possess? There is one time that ethnic group
members consciously get together to present themselves to others. They pick and
choose their finest traditions, and then practice, practice, practice, getting
ready for our town's many ethnic festivals.

That's when they display their identity for the rest of us (including members of
other ethnic groups). That's when we get a chance to sample the food, listen to
the songs, watch craft demonstrations. There's the Chinese Festival at Missouri
Botanical Garden in June. The Hispanic Festival in North County in July and
South County in August. Who could forget the Japanese Festival on Labor Day
Weekend. And there are two Greek festivals, one Memorial Day and one Labor Day,
bracketing the summer with baklava. The festival season ends with International
Folkfest in October and the huge Kwanzaa Expo at America's Center in December.

What a year! And there are many more smaller festivals in between. There's
plenty of opportunity to experience cultural diversity in St. Louis. You just
have to look.

LOAD-DATE: July 13, 1999

LANGUAGE: English

GRAPHIC: Photo Photo headshot of Ann M. Rynearson

                  Copyright 1999 St. Louis Post-Dispatch, Inc.


                              286 of 457 DOCUMENTS

                       St. Louis Post-Dispatch (Missouri)

                  May 16, 1999, Sunday, FIVE STAR LIFT EDITION

YOUR CALLS

SECTION: IMAGINE ST. LOUIS, Pg. B5

LENGTH: 621 words



This is from Richard Englehart Jr.:

I feel that the United States should limit the amount of immigrants allowed into
the country. Let other countries take them because a lot of them come over to
our country with no money. Our government pays for them to get set up in a home,
feeds them and even offers them small business loans to get businesses going.
But yet Americans that are born and raised here, been here for generations, are
not allowed to get small business loans as easy. And they're not given as much
priority by the government as immigrants are. So I feel they should either close
the borders for a while and not allow any immigrants in or limit the amount per
year so it will not make a burden on the taxpayers.

*

This caller left his name but said he didn't want it used

I think a limited number of immigrants is a good thing. I think right now we
have too many, for two reasons. One, the country is becoming overpopulated. Two,
we're not assimilating them. I think the proof of that is that the most popular
name for baby boys in California and Texas is now Jose. I'm somewhat ambivalent
about immigration in one sense. I think we need to keep the numbers low and I
think we have to emphasize assimilation. Otherwise we're going to become like
the Balkans. It's not true when you have large numbers of immigrants that they
will all be assimilated. I think we're starting to see a failure of
assimilation. Ultimately that's going to lead to disunity, conflict, and
possibly even secession.

*

This is from Dennis Crump at LFI Staffing:

We've got a lot of Bosnian people working for us. As a matter of fact, we've
changed our policy so much here at the office we have everything in both
languages, our signs, even our voice mail. We have a young lady who is an
interpreter in our office. We have quite a bit going on with that. We have more
Bosnians working out of this office than Americans.

*

This is from Bill Henke:

There's a program beginning at Gateway Greening, which is part of the Botanical
Garden, to create a multi-cultural, multi-ethnic garden project so people from
different cultures can share diverse food production, etc.

(Gateway Greening's telephone number is (314) 577-9484.)

*

From Beverly Midyett:

I don't mind immigrants coming to St. Louis and this country. What I don't like
is they want Spanish teachers, Spanish in the schools, a room of their own with
Hispanic teachers. If they're going to come to this country, let them learn
English as their main language and not have English as a second language. And
let them keep their own language at home, among themselves.

*

Here are some comments left by callers who preferred anonymity:

I think we should let more than the 20,000 Albanians come into this country.
They are political refugees. As far as I'm concerned we should let all 500,000
of them into the country. I think it would be good for this country.

*

I think it's wonderful, the immigration. My grandparents were probably
immigrants before the Civil War from Germany, who farmed in southern Missouri.

*

I am very disgusted with the Dan Mihalopoulos article in the paper. He doesn't
tell about what handouts we are giving away to these people who are coming over
here taking away from our peoples' work, taking our jobs. He doesn't comment on
that, and I think he should. I don't think he's awake enough to realize what
they're taking from us instead of giving to us. Years ago we needed the
population. We don't need the population now. We need our own people in this
country. We don't need extra people here now . When the country was building up
we did. We don't now.

LOAD-DATE: July 13, 1999

LANGUAGE: English

                  Copyright 1999 St. Louis Post-Dispatch, Inc.


                              287 of 457 DOCUMENTS

                       St. Louis Post-Dispatch (Missouri)

                  May 16, 1999, Sunday, FIVE STAR LIFT EDITION

KEEPING TRACK OF IMAGINE'S CONVERSATIONS

SECTION: IMAGINE ST. LOUIS, Pg. B1

LENGTH: 493 words


Imagine St. Louis is a work-in-progress. Occasionally, changes will be made in
the section so it?,ll be more responsive more responsive to readers and others
who?,re who are joining in the conversations initiated in it.

One big change is in front of you this week. when we eliminate all cult-like
language from the section.

We decided that instead of opening a brand new discussion this week, as we?,ve
done on previous Sundays, we?,re going to give more room to the conversations
themselves.

This week, for example, you can check in on a spirited conversation about
immigration that occurred at the International Institute of Saint Louis, and
read more about lives of immigrants who have built sturdy lives in this country.

The two-Sunday treatment will be given once only, to issues that are introduced
in the Imagine St. Louis format for the first time such as immigration. However,
each situation will be revisited frequently.

Next week, for example, we?,ll return to the subject of literacy - our first
imagine St. Louis topic. Members of the Post- Dispatch education team will show
us what they have discovered about teaching young children to read - and the
consequences of our not exposing children to books and language early on.

In two weeks, on May 30, the Imagine St. Louis subject will be access to health
care in this region. On June 6, the cnversations that ensue will be featured in
this section.

WRITE IN OR CALL

Please Note: Unless you clearly tell us NOT to use your mail or telephone
messages, all or in part, we will consider them available for publication.

* Send us a letter:

Imagine St. Louis

St. Louis Post-Dispatch

900 N. Tucker Blvd.

St. Louis, Mo. 63101

* Send us an e-mail: imaginestl@postnet.com

* Send us a fax: (314) 340-3050

* Call us at POSTline: Call 923-2323, tap in 4045.

LIVE CHAT ON postnet.com

Join conversations about immigration at Postnet online. You can join the Imagine
Forum anytime, but particularly keep an eye peeled from 6 p.m. to 8 p.m.
Wednesday when Chester Moyer of the Immigration and Naturalization Service and
Natalie Frants of the Jewish Federation join us for a conversation about the ins
and outs, pros and cons of immigration in St. Louis. Prepare your questions or
just listen in; we?,re at www.postnet.com/imagineforum

The Imagine section online has other things to offer too. You can read this
week?,s and last week?,s reporting by P- D reporter Dan Mihalopoulos, link to
intriguing immigration-related websites or just find the facts and figures
you?,re looking for; our front page is at www.postnet.com/imagine

And don?,t let yourself be limited by the dishes on our menu. As always, if
there are any facts you want to know about an Imagine issue that you can?,t find
on your own, send us an email at imaginefacts@postnet.com and we?,ll get an
answer posted on the Imagine Forum as quickly as we can.

LOAD-DATE: July 13, 1999

LANGUAGE: English

GRAPHIC: GRAPHIC Color Graphic / Logo - postnet.com

                  Copyright 1999 St. Louis Post-Dispatch, Inc.


                              288 of 457 DOCUMENTS

                       St. Louis Post-Dispatch (Missouri)

                  May 16, 1999, Sunday, FIVE STAR LIFT EDITION

"AMERICA HAS ALWAYS BEEN RICHER FOR AN INFLUX OF IMMIGRANTS"

BYLINE: Dan Mihalopoulos; Of The Post-Dispatch

SECTION: IMAGINE ST. LOUIS, Pg. B1

LENGTH: 1149 words


Robert Cox is an immigration lawyer in University City, but he's contemplating
moving his practice to South Grand Boulevard.

That would put him closer to clients living and shopping in the growing
immigrant enclaves of south St. Louis.

For years, metropolitan St. Louis has had a small influx of foreign-born
residents, but next years census is expected to document an upturn in the
percentages.

Last week, Imagine St. Louis explored the impact of immigration on the region.

On Tuesday, more than 30 St. Louisans, hailing from everywhere between
Chesterfield and Millstadt, came to the International Institute on Park Avenue
near South Grand Boulevard to talk about the issue.

The conversation was moderated by Robert W. Duffy, the Post-Dispatch cultural
news editor, who edits Imagine St. Louis.

Cox told the other participants that immigrants not only make the United States
the worlds most cosmopolitan nation but also benefit the national economy.

"The people who come here tend to be hardworking, hard-driving, inventive
people," he said.

Cox cited a Vietnamese family that arrived in St. Louis in 1980. Three inches of
snow blanketed the ground. The adults wore only thong shoes and the children
were barefooted.

"They now own five homes in Chesterfield. They own two businesses. One son got
his master's in engineering from the University of Missouri-Rolla," Cox said.

"This is a family that came on a boat with literally nothing. They knew only to
count to 10 in English. They all learned English, except the grandmother, who
stays home.

"I see this pattern over and over and over. We are getting the cream of the crop
when people come here."

Given the meeting site - an agency that helps many refugees settle here - it's
not surprising that virtually all comments during the 90-minute conversation
were decidedly pro-immigration.

At one point near the end of the session, Duffy asked if there was anyone who
wanted to voice his or her concern about the impact of immigration on the St.
Louis area. He found no takers.

Some said the number of immigrants in the region is too low to trigger a more
visible anti-immigrant backlash - at least for now.

Even if St. Louis had twice as many immigrants as it does today, it would rank
far behind other U.S. cities that long have been immigrant magnets, said
International Institute President Anna Crosslin.

In the last U.S. census, in 1990, only 2 percent of the St. Louis region's
residents were foreign-born. But more recent estimates reflect the rapidly
growing numbers of emigres from Bosnia, Somalia, Mexico and elsewhere.

And they're starting to have a noticeable impact on St. Louis and suburbs,
especially in city neighborhoods where certain ethnic groups are starting to
predominate.

JoAnn Outs, a former college French teacher from Kirkwood, said she is in favor
of continued immigration to the region, despite the initial disgruntlement that
immigrants can provoke.

"We have turned out different because of each influx," Outs said. "There will
always be grunts and groans and financial repercussions, but America has always
been richer for an influx of immigrants."

Alan Shiller, a Webster University professor from O'Fallon, Mo., talked about
the favorable impression his industrious foreign students at Webster have made
on him.

"I just wish my American students had the same fervor," he said.

Shiller is working with counterparts from St. Louis University to train city
police officers to gain greater awareness of cultural differences within a
diverse populace.

Ann Rynearson, director of cross-cultural programs for the International
Institute, lauded the St. Louis police for being "very pro-active" in trying to
understand immigrant communities. An officer is posted full-time at the
institute.

Rynearson also oversees a program called Community Links. It helps immigrants
understand how the police function in this society.

For example, Community Links held several meetings because some Asians were too
scared to tell police about gangs shaking down immigrant-owned businesses on
South Grand for "protection" money. Police recently arrested members of a
protection racket.

At the Community Links meetings, immigrants learned that they can leave
confidential messages for police, even in foreign languages. Police then turn
over the tapes to the institute for translation.

Several speakers said it is important that the wider community is aware of the
great diversity among immigrants to St. Louis.

Noor Ahmed of Ballwin is chairman of the Islamic Foundation here. After arriving
in St. Louis 22 years ago, the Pakistan-born Ahmed said he and others from south
Asia frequently experienced rejection.

"You would call for a job, and as soon as they heard your accent, they said,
'Oops, we have no opening. Try next year,'" he recalled.

Nonetheless, Ahmed said he and his community have found prosperity and happiness
in St. Louis.

Although many immigrants fill low-wage, low-skill job, many others are highly
educated, he noted. Area Muslims, many of whom arrived here as unive rsity
students, have stayed and gone on to build mosques where they preserve their
religious traditions.

"We really are not a drain on the local community," Ahmed said. "All we say is
give us a chance. We will be more helpful than a threat."

There was some discussion of what can be done to make St. Louis better prepared
to handle immigration.

Ken Shirkey of Maplewood said interaction between immigrants and those here
before them will help bridge cultural gaps.

"The real solution is people," he said. "Government programs are not the
answer."

Shirkey said he believes immigrants have a lot to teach more deeply rooted
Americans about family values: "They have a sense of community. We don't know
what extended family is in this country."

The growth of immigrant communities could enhance the national perception of St.
Louis, he added.

"People like to see we have football and major-league baseball, but they also
like to see we have ethnic diversity and a richness of cultures," Shirkey said.

That diversity probably will grow as the region's reputation for low-cost
housing and plentiful jobs spreads to the cousins and other compatriots of
immigrants already thriving here.

Vietnamese, Bosnian and Spanish translators on hand Tuesday were not asked to
offer their services during the meeting. The crowd, however, did include
Hispanic, Vietnamese and other foreign-born participants as well as white and
black St. Louisans with longer histories in the region.

In interviews after the meeting, several participants said there should be
further discussions about dealing with the side effects of immigration.

"This is a start," said William Hicks of St. Louis. "I think we have a long way
to go here in St. Louis as far as immigration goes."

LOAD-DATE: July 13, 1999

LANGUAGE: English

GRAPHIC: PHOTO Photo by Charlie Gershman - Carol H. Oliver, University City,
told about the diligence of an immigrant student in one of her classes at the
St. Louis College of Pharmacy. The student, a woman in her 30s, worked as a
seamstress to put relatives through school before resuming her own education.

                  Copyright 1999 St. Louis Post-Dispatch, Inc.


                              289 of 457 DOCUMENTS

                       St. Louis Post-Dispatch (Missouri)

                 May 18, 1999, Tuesday, FIVE STAR LIFT EDITION

DISAGREEMENTS IN ELECTION IN ISRAELI WERE EVIDENT AMONG ST. LOUISANS AS WELL

BYLINE: Paul Hampel; Of The Post-Dispatch

SECTION: NEWS, Pg. A8

LENGTH: 366 words


Israel's divisive campaign for prime minister generated enough tension Monday to
season conversations, if not the sloppy Joe, at Kohn's Kosher Meat and Deli
Restaurant in Creve Coeur.

Two Israeli immigrants - a Jew and an Arab - work together at the deli but
refuse to discuss their opposing views with each other for fear of jeopardizing
jobs and friendship.

Menashe Gibli, 54, is a Jew who immigrated to America from Tel Aviv in 1977.
Akram Hassan, 44, is a Muslim who came to this country from the West Bank in
1975. Both men hold dual American-Israeli citizenship.

"I am for Netanyahu because God does not want Barak to give land to the
Palestinians," said Gibli, slicing beef with a butcher knife. "But I don't talk
about this with my friend, Akram."

Hassan called Netanyahu "the dictator."

Ehud Barak "is the best hope for a real peace, a long-term peace," Hassan said
as he stirred kosher sloppy Joe in the kitchen of the restaurant at 10405 Old
Olive Street Road. "But we don't discuss Israeli politics at work."

It was a position many others identified with Monday in the wake of the election
which saw Barak defeat Netanyahu.

During a stop at the deli, Yehuda Kimberg, 36, a mortgage specialist who lives
in Olivette and holds dual American-Israeli citizenship, did not hesitate to
declare himself a Netanyahu man.

Kimberg called himself a moderate who supported Netanyahu on the principal of
"if it isn't broke, don't fix it."

Barak, he said, appealed to people who let their emotions guide them at the
expense of reason.

At the Covenant House/C.H.A.I. senior citizens home at the Jewish Community
Center in Creve Coeur, director Janet Weinberg would only make veiled references
to her support for Barak.

"I was hoping for a change in government and I'm happy to hear that change may
be coming," said Weinberg, a University City resident who studied in Israel and
has friends and family there. She said she felt she had a stake in the election
but would not say who she hoped would win.

"I don't want to alienate people who actually live in Israel, whose lives are on
the line and who pay taxes and actually have the right to vote," said Weinberg.

LOAD-DATE: May 18, 1999

LANGUAGE: English

                  Copyright 1999 St. Louis Post-Dispatch, Inc.


                              290 of 457 DOCUMENTS

                       St. Louis Post-Dispatch (Missouri)

                May 19, 1999, Wednesday, FIVE STAR LIFT EDITION

IN OTHER NEWS;
POSTNET FORUM TONIGHT FOCUSES ON IMMIGRATION

SECTION: NEWS, Pg. A1

LENGTH: 79 words


Would more immigrants be a boon to our region, and if so, how do we get them? Do
today's immigrants assimilate the same way yesterday's did? Join Chester Moyer
of the Immigration and Naturalization Service, Natalie Frants of the Jewish
Federation and Imagine St. Louis Online Editor Art Charity for a nearly live
chat on these and other questions, on the Imagine Forum at www.postnet.com/
imagineforum, from 6 p.m. to 8 p.m. this evening. Your participation is
welcomed.

LOAD-DATE: May 19, 1999

LANGUAGE: English

GRAPHIC: PHOTO Color Photo - Sunday, May 16, 1999, Imagine St. Louis section
front page.

                  Copyright 1999 St. Louis Post-Dispatch, Inc.


                              291 of 457 DOCUMENTS

                       St. Louis Post-Dispatch (Missouri)

                May 26, 1999, Wednesday, FIVE STAR LIFT EDITION

ST. LOUIS MAY GET HUNDREDS OF REFUGEES FROM KOSOVO;
AREA IS MAJOR DESTINATION FOR FAMILIES, WITH FIRST ONES ARRIVING WITHIN DAYS

BYLINE: Philip Dine; Of The Post-Dispatch

SECTION: NEWS, Pg. A1

LENGTH: 799 words

DATELINE: WASHINGTON


St. Louis will be a major destination for Albanian Kosovar refugees streaming
into the United States.

The lead private resettlement agency at Fort Dix, N.J., which houses about 4,000
refugees, said Tuesday that it had selected St. Louis as one of four host
cities. The first families are expected to arrive in St. Louis within days, and
the eventual number could reach into the hundreds.

The United States has agreed to take in a total of 20,000 ethnic Albanians, who
have fled their homes in the Kosovo region of Yugoslavia because of the threat
of violence from Serb soldiers or paramilitary police. Hundreds are arriving
every few days at Fort Dix.

"We picked several cities for the initial resettlement of refugees - Houston,
Bridgeport (Conn.), Boston and St. Louis," Gabrielle Bushman, spokeswoman for
the Immigration and Refugee Services of America, said in an interview Tuesday.

Those cities were chosen based on several factors, she said, including a stable
job market, affordable housing, the presence of capable resettlement groups and
enough native Albanian speakers to help the newcomers adapt.

St. Louis has roughly 100 native Albanians, most of whom arrived after Albania's
hard-line communist government crumbled seven years ago and the country's
borders opened. St. Louis' largest resettlement agency, the International
Institute of Metropolitan St. Louis, is the local affiliate of the Immigration
and Refugee Services of America.

St. Louis has enough Albanians to offer translation services and other help but
not such a large group as to impede absorption into the larger society, Bushman
said. New York, which wasn't chosen as an initial site, has many thousands of
Albanians and is more expensive, she said.

The U.S. Catholic Conference also disclosed Tuesday that it will begin sending
refugees to St. Louis in the next few days.

The arrival of Albanian Kosovars will buttress St. Louis' standing of recent
years as a key center for refugee resettlement, including thousands of Bosnians,
Vietnamese and Russians, as well as smaller groups from Latin America, Africa,
Eastern Europe and the Middle East. Earlier this decade, the State Department
and major private resettlement agencies quietly made St. Louis a "cluster site"
for refugees, in part because of the lack of public animosity.

Albanian Kosovars began arriving on May 5 at Fort Dix, where they are receiving
medical screening and are being processed by government officials. They are
awaiting assignment to communities around the country by one of the nine private
agencies that oversee refugee resettlement.

After a few departures from Fort Dix the past couple of weeks, the pace is now
increasing, with departures Monday, Tuesday and today.

The U.S. Department of Health and Human Services provides grants to private
agencies, which distribute the money to their local affiliates to help defray
the cost of job training, language and other services provided the newcomers
during a transition period.

The Immigration and Refugee Services of America, based in Washington, will
handle about 2,000 of the refugees. It's already chosen four families consisting
of 23 people to be resettled in St. Louis, with more families to come, Bushman
said.

The International Institute said Tuesday that the arrival of Kosovar refugees in
St. Louis was imminent and that the institute would have an announcement within
a few days.

The largest of the nine private groups helping to settle refugees, the U.S.
Catholic Conference in Washington, plans to place refugees in St. Louis as soon
as this week.

Marie Quinlan, communications director for the conference's Migration and
Refugees Services, said St. Louis is among 55 sites chosen for initial
resettlement.

"We're expecting that we could initially place 30 refugees there, however that
could increase," Quinlan said.

The conference's local affiliate in St. Louis is the Catholic Charities Refugee
Services, which was unavailable for comment Tuesday.

St. Louis' third refugee resettlement agency is the Jewish Family & Children's
Service, an affiliate of the Hebrew Immigrant Aid Society in New York. The
national agency said that while no resettlement sites have been selected, the
St. Louis group has expressed interest and will get strong consideration because
of its track record.

Evelyn Young, coordinator of the Jewish resettlement program in St. Louis, said
Tuesday: "Our board here has met, and it's been OK'd in principle to resettle
Kosovar refugees when we're asked by our national agency. The Jewish community
is certainly very sensitive to this particular group of refugees because it's so
reminiscent of the Holocaust, people thrown out of their homes and the genocide
that's happening because of who they are."

LOAD-DATE: May 26, 1999

LANGUAGE: English

                  Copyright 1999 St. Louis Post-Dispatch, Inc.


                              292 of 457 DOCUMENTS

                       St. Louis Post-Dispatch (Missouri)

                  May 30, 1999, Sunday, FIVE STAR LIFT EDITION

GROWING BEYOND THE MELTING POT

SECTION: IMAGINE ST. LOUIS, Pg. B6

LENGTH: 610 words


Three weeks ago, Imagine St. Louis opened a community conversation about issues
related to immigration. Last week, the section revisited the subject of
literacy. This group of letters has a relationship to both subjects. Sally
Schwarz and Carol Wellman teach English as a second language to adult immigrants
who come to the Jewish Community Center in west St. Louis County for help in
acclimating themselves to their new home. The students were asked, "Let us know
your feelings about St. Louis as a home for immigrants." Excerpts from their
responses follow. Some of the short essays were unsigned, or signed with first
names only.

My family and I came to the United States in January 1994 from Ukraine. We all
live in Saint Louis. The weather in Saint Louis is different. It's hot and
humid. . But I'm glad to live in this country. The government of the United
States take care of old people. My children have jobs. They work hard and can
afford their needs.

Unsigned

I like to live in St. Louis far many green trees, grass and I can walk to the
swimming pool.

Eugenia

When we had a contact with American people we had a feeling like we hold with
our relatives. We appreciate this. Every morning we tell: "God bless America!"

Morsey Lamoylovich

This city is a garden. It has many trees, flowers and birds.

Ninel Vanganova

This city met us with a terrible hot temperature. But the people gave us a lot
of care and we appreciated their attention and care very much. This city is very
nice with museums, and wonderful construction like the Arch.

Musya Kaplan

St. Louis is very green and clean city. The American Constitution is the best in
the world.

Izack Grinberg

My family and I came to the United States of America from Ukraine in October
1993.

I think this a beautiful life for me and my family in the U.S.

My children have jobs and my two granddaughters study in school.

Esfir

My family and I came to St. Louis from Ukraine in 1993.

St. Louis gives our family many opportunities.

Feeiks

I like St. Louis because I have independence.

Margolin

There are a lot of supermarkets and many products and goods in them.

They are smiling people who are always willing to help us.

My husband and I have a good apartment. We have good conditions for our lives.

Faina Livak

My children have their own homes and they are very glad. My son has a business -
a fish market.

Jsilya Gzinberg

As an elderly woman I'm completely satisfied with everything that the government
provided me for.

Thank them very much.

Fanya

I think St. Louis is a good home for immigrants. Especially for old people. We
have good apartments at the Covenant House and is is a good place to live. There
is an English school in our complex, library, dining room and shop. We have
friends, Russians and Americans.

Galina S.

I feel gratitude and duty for my new country.

Mikhail Tsypis

I was in Los Angeles, but our city is better - more green, more convenient for
families.

Maya

We like St. Louis very much and we are happy that our home is in St. Louis. I
think in St. Louis the dreams become a reality.

Raisa

My feeling is very nice because my children have jobs and my grandchildren study
at the university. We have no problems.I have a nice apartment, but I have one
problem with transportation, I'm not a driver and I don't have a car. I depend
on my children, but everything is nice.

Sonya Shor

I am glad to live in St. Louis.

One trouble we have is transportation.

Berta Shrets

LOAD-DATE: June 1, 1999

LANGUAGE: English

                  Copyright 1999 St. Louis Post-Dispatch, Inc.


                              293 of 457 DOCUMENTS

                       St. Louis Post-Dispatch (Missouri)

                June 26, 1999, Saturday, FIVE STAR LIFT EDITION

AUTHORITIES HAD SUSPECT IN CUSTODY BUT, UNAWARE OF CASES, DEPORTED HIM

BYLINE: The Associated Press

SECTION: NEWS, Pg. 14

LENGTH: 437 words

DATELINE: HOUSTON


* Also, in Cape Girardeau, Mo., a man told police he fatally shot a woman
because he thought she was the suspected killer trying to break into his house.

Suspected serial killer Rafael Resendez-Ramirez was in the custody of
immigration officials this month, but they redeported him, federal authorities
said Friday.

And in Southeast Missouri, police were investigating the fatal shooting of a
woman by a man who said he thought she was Resendez-Ramirez trying to break into
his house.

On June 1, the Immigration and Naturalization Service detained Resendez-Ramirez
for being in this nation illegally and deported him to Mexico. INS officials
said they were unaware he was wanted for questioning in at least four killings.

"I'm not going to discuss whether it was a mechanical error or an error at all,"
said Don K. Clark, special agent in charge of the Houston FBI office and head of
a task force pursuing him.

"I don't think it is a blow to our investigation. Clearly, we would like to have
him right this minute. We would have liked to have him some time ago, but what
it does do is give us the most current photograph we can get out to the public."

Clark and INS spokesman Russ Bergeron refused to say where Resendez-Ramirez was
picked up. Houston television station KHOU reported he was detained in New
Mexico.

Four of the eight slayings linked to Resendez-Ramirez took place after he had
been released from INS custody. Two were in Texas, and two were in Southern
Illinois. Police believe he travels on freight trains and picks victims who live
near railroad tracks.

Resendez-Ramirez has used dozens of aliases in the past several years. And on
Friday, the Chicago Tribune reported that his family in Mexico was identifying
him as Angel Lioncio Reyes Resendiz. The real Resendez-Ramirez is the drifter's
uncle, a 67-year-old sugar cane grower, the Tribune reported.

The manhunt and resulting publicity has been attributed to at least one fatal
case of mistaken identity in Missouri.

Prosecutors will decide Monday whether to charge David Charles Booher, 33, of
Cape Girardeau, in the fatal shooting of Debra Ann Poch about 11:55 p.m.
Wednesday.

The street where Booher lives is two blocks from railroad tracks. He told police
he believed the person trying to get into his house might have been the alleged
serial killer.

Police said Booher fired four shots from a handgun through the door. Two other
witnesses inside the house said they believed Poch was trying to break in the
door, and they called police. The shots were fired, they said, after Poch didn't
respond to their yells.

LOAD-DATE: July 14, 1999

LANGUAGE: English

                  Copyright 1999 St. Louis Post-Dispatch, Inc.


                              294 of 457 DOCUMENTS

                       St. Louis Post-Dispatch (Missouri)

                 July 1, 1999, Thursday, FIVE STAR LIFT EDITION

NATURALIZATION CEREMONY, CONCERT HONOR INDEPENDENCE DAY WEEKEND

SECTION: METRO, Pg. B1

LENGTH: 129 words


The Immigration and Naturalization Service and the National Park Service will
hold a naturalization ceremony for about 60 people who are becoming United
States citizens at 1 p.m. Friday in the Old Courthouse rotunda. The ceremony was
planned in conjunction with the Independence Day holiday weekend. A pre-ceremony
concert will feature patriotic music by the Gateway Brass Quintet from noon to
12:45 p.m. The Old Courthouse, at 11 North Fourth Street, will be decorated
through Aug. 9 with a 19th-century motif, with yards of red, white and blue
bunting, garlands of greenery and a 36-by-20-foot 33-star garrison flag
suspended from the fifth-level rotunda. The Old Courthouse will be open this
holiday weekend until 5 p.m. For more information, call (314) 655-1600.

LOAD-DATE: July 1, 1999

LANGUAGE: English

                  Copyright 1999 St. Louis Post-Dispatch, Inc.


                              295 of 457 DOCUMENTS

                       St. Louis Post-Dispatch (Missouri)

                    July 4, 1999, Sunday, THREE STAR EDITION

IMMIGRANTS ADAPT WELL TO AMERICAN CULTURE, STUDY FINDS

BYLINE: The Associated Press

SECTION: NEWS, Pg. A7

LENGTH: 296 words

DATELINE: WASHINGTON


Within 20 years of arrival in the United States, more than 60 percent of
immigrants lived in their own homes in 1990, says a study on how well immigrants
integrate into American society.

About 76 percent of immigrants who had lived in the country for 40 years were
naturalized citizens, and three of four spoke English well within 10 years of
arriving in the United States, said the study.

"Immigrants are much better prepared in English than is commonly thought," said
the report, released Thursday by the National Immigration Forum, an immigrants'
advocacy group.

"Assimilation is not about immigrants rejecting their past, but about people of
different racial, religious and cultural backgrounds coming to believe that they
are part of an overarching American family," the study said.

Assimilation is a long-term and sometimes multigenerational process, the report
said.

Immigrants rarely discard their native language and culture immediately.

There were more than 26 million foreign-born people in the United States in
1998, about 9.8 percent of the total population, the report said. "Of these,
67.2 percent had arrived in the U.S. before 1990, with almost a third (32.8
percent) settling between 1990 and 1998."

An estimated 27.1 percent of immigrants living in the United States were of
Mexican origin.

The Philippines were the second-most common country of origin, at 4.6 percent,
and China was third, with 3.9 percent.

Nearly one-third of all immigrants live in California. Six states are home to
more than 70 percent of immigrants: California, New York, Florida, Texas,
Illinois and New Jersey, the report said.

Data for the study were taken from the 1990 Census and the Current Population
Survey, which tracks generational differences.

LOAD-DATE: July 4, 1999

LANGUAGE: English

                  Copyright 1999 St. Louis Post-Dispatch, Inc.


                              296 of 457 DOCUMENTS

                       St. Louis Post-Dispatch (Missouri)

                 July 11, 1999, Sunday, FIVE STAR LIFT EDITION

OVER THE YEARS, U.S. REFUGEE POLICY HAS BEEN A REFLECTION OF THE WORLD'S;
POLITICS.Freedom's March;
Part 2 of a series;
REFUGEES AND RECOVERY

BYLINE: Philip Dine; Post-Dispatch Washington Bureau

SECTION: NEWS, Pg. A7

LENGTH: 709 words


Refugees who want to seek freedom in the United States have had to hope that
their quests meshed with American policies.

Though the Albanian Kosovar exodus has drawn rare attention, the United States
has had a policy of admitting refugees for 50 years, starting with displaced
Europeans in the aftermath of World War II.

At its best, says Washington University's Stephen Legomsky, it's based on a
humanitarian goal of relieving suffering and a policy aim of sending the message
that human rights must be respected.

"Refugee policy is a statement that we want to foster freedom around the world,"
says Legomsky, whose textbook on the subject is the most widely used in law
schools nationwide. But defining freedom and choosing among the millions of
worldwide refugees -- especially during the Cold War -- has involved political
judgments about the national interest.

"Refugee policy was very foreign policy-driven," Legomsky says. "It was highly
politicized."

Those who fled communism at great risk were of value in the propaganda war with
the Soviet Union. And so the big flows accepted by the United States were from
Cuba, Indochina and the Soviet Union or its satellites. People escaping
oppression from states friendly to America, such as El Salvador, Guatemala and
Chile, or those from African nations not seen as pivotal in the East-West
struggle, were rarely admitted.

Until 1980, the United States admitted refugees on a crisis-by-crisis basis. The
Refugee Act of that year required the president to set a ceiling each year for
refugees with "a well-founded fear of persecution on account of race, religion,
nationality, membership in a particular social group, or political opinion."

Two communist-related flows beginning around that time -- Vietnamese refugees
and Soviet Jews -- dominated until the mid-1990s. That means most of the
refugees to the United States came from countries producing a tiny portion of
the world's refugees, while scant attention was given to vast areas accounting
for 80 percent, including Africa, South Asia and Latin America.

That's because U.S. officials have favored those persecuted for political
beliefs -- and certain views at that -- as opposed to, for instance, those
fearful because of racial conflict.

Gender was not even mentioned in the 1980 act, although most refugees around the
world are female, with many men killed or fighting in conflicts. The exclusion
of gender has led to confusion over whether the fear of female genital
mutilation justifies refugee status.

After the Soviet collapse, the United States has accepted a more diverse pool of
refugees, but fewer.

The number of nations from which refugees are eligible has expanded. Africa's
allotment, for example, doubled to 12,000 refugees this year upon lobbying by
the Congressional Black Caucus.

"With the end of the Cold War, regional conflicts and ethnic conflicts have
created a whole new regime of refugees," says Mark Franken, director of refugee
services at the United States Catholic Conference, largest of the nine private
agencies that resettle refugees under contract with the State Department.

"Refugee policy was and will forever be a tool of foreign policy, but my view is
in recent years it has placed more emphasis on the humanitarian aspect of
refugees."

Sparked by the Yugoslav wars, Eastern Europe is now the dominant source of
refugees, led by Bosnians. The number of refugees admitted to the United States
has dropped to 78,000 annually, though that will be bumped up 20,000 this year
by Albanian Kosovars. That's fewer than half in some previous years.

The decrease runs counter to a gradual rise in the worldwide number of refugees.
Some worry that America's political and financial will to welcome refugees may
erode without the impetus of a Cold War. But the compelling plight of the
Kosovars may rekindle interest, says Leonard Glickman, who heads the Hebrew
Immigrant Aid Society. Glickman said he and leaders of other national agencies
are discussing how to build on the recent outpouring of support.

"What we want," he said, "is to take that public reaction, which has been so
extraordinarily generous, to the administration and reverse years of declining
refugee admissions."

LOAD-DATE: July 11, 1999

LANGUAGE: English

                  Copyright 1999 St. Louis Post-Dispatch, Inc.


                              297 of 457 DOCUMENTS

                       St. Louis Post-Dispatch (Missouri)

                 July 13, 1999, Tuesday, FIVE STAR LIFT EDITION

FOR MANY IMMIGRANTS, ACCEPTANCE IS A TWO-WAY STREET

BYLINE: Jelena Aleksic

SECTION: EDITORIAL, Pg. B17

LENGTH: 592 words


A person, once respected for what he did, is now trying to prove himself again.
The person could have been a doctor, an engineer or an office clerk, but now he
is just working for minimum wage. Most immigrants to the United States left
their homes hoping for a better future for their families. The future in a
post-war country was not what they had planned.

Starting over is not easy, especially in a foreign country. The refugees have to
learn how to survive in new environment.

For the first weeks after their arrival, the refugees take classes in basic
English grammar and vocabulary. Those classes also prepare them for their first
job interviews here.

Sometimes -- too often -- the person does not understand or speak English well
enough to get the job he applied for.

Most refugees settle for jobs that pay less, hoping that one day they can do
what they did back home.

Minimum-wage jobs are usually not enough, so working two jobs is not unusual.

Most families knew that they would have to start over and that it would be a
great challenge. Sometimes in life you do not have much of a choice but to learn
to adjust.

Acceptance plays a big role in survival.

After getting a job here, it is sometimes a challenge to get accepted by fellow
employees.

The people try to be understanding, but not knowing enough about the refugees'
background can be a disadvantage.

The refugees have to prove themselves again, and sometimes people underestimate
their abilities because of the language barrier.

Even with attempts to be understanding it sometimes takes a lot of patience from
employers and co-workers and from the refugee to get the job done.
Miscommunication is one of the things that will always cause some problems. It
is all part of adjusting.

REFUGEES, many of whom were successful doctors or engineers, usually have to go
to school again, or have to take to tests to demonstrate their knowledge in the
field. Because most of those jobs require great knowledge of the English
language, many people fail to do well on such tests.

Their language skills cannot be built instantly. As a result many people take
any job to meet their family's needs. Usually, their primary goals after coming
to the U.S. are saving for a car, house or their children's education.

Support from people is encouraging; however, it is not always enough for a
refugee to succeed at a job. Many refugees find it too hard to express
themselves and show what they know. They had a life before they came here. They
went to school and learned everything that is being taught here. They had a
career and a planned future, but it all disappeared.

So they have to build a new life for themselves.

Nobody likes to be underestimated. Most of the people who left Bosnia are
working in entry-level jobs.

Since my family and I have been here, some things have changed. People have
learned a little more about the culture we come from.

Some still feel as if they are being robbed.

Some Americans I have met and talked to feel like the refugees are taking over,
as if they are taking all the jobs and money.

On the other hand, there are people who want to get know the refugees and try to
understand what they have been through.

Most try and help with whatever they can, with the language, or just showing you
and introducing you to the way of life here.

After going through this process with my family and watching both Americans and
the refugees adjust to each other, I see everybody learning to accept their
differences.

LOAD-DATE: July 13, 1999

LANGUAGE: English

TYPE: Commentary Column

                  Copyright 1999 St. Louis Post-Dispatch, Inc.


                              298 of 457 DOCUMENTS

                       St. Louis Post-Dispatch (Missouri)

                 July 18, 1999, Sunday, FIVE STAR LIFT EDITION

HOME BUILDERS LOOK TO IMMIGRANTS, HOPE FOR LAYOFFS

BYLINE: Jerry Berger

SECTION: NEWS, Pg. A2

LENGTH: 1374 words


PLANK STEAK: War and rumors of war have an upside for members of the local Home
Builders Association. Strapped for workers in the red-hot construction industry,
local execs are beating the bushes for help. A recent HBA newsletter recounts "a
fair amount of success" recruiting "immigrants and refugees from the
Kosovo/Bosnia region" and notes hopefully that "workers are being laid off by
the thousands over the next several years" from Boeing.

STICK BUILT: The contract to manage the $ 100 million St. Louis city employees
deferred compensation fund is becoming something of a political hot potato at
City Hall. Aldermen have gotten copies of a sharply worded letter from
Carpenters Union rep Joann Williams complaining about a decision by Mayor
Clarence Harmon and other city officials to put the matter out for a public bid.
"Competitive bidding is not objectionable if it achieves the desired objective.
However, cheaper is not always better," warns Williams direly. Williams, a
one-time mayoral ally, recently resi gned an appointment as head of the St.
Louis Housing Authority.

BEEP BEEP: While rumors about potential candidacies, including those of
aldermanic prez Francis Slay and former mayors Vince Schoemehl and Freeman
Bosley, swirl, the campaign of incumbent St. Louis Mayor Clarence Harmon
continues to sputter. For the reporting quarter between April and June, campaign
treasurer Glynn Donaho has informed the Missouri Ethics Commission that hizzoner
has raised a total of $ 100 - $ 28 less than his campaign spent on pager service
during the same period.

GRANNY POWER: Joyce Vandermeulen, a feisty grandmother in Jefferson County, is
not sure she wants to live next to an airport and doesn't think her neighbors do
either. Vandermeulen and her friends hope to make that clear to Economic
Development Director Loretta Hiner with "a little neighborly chat" on the
Jefferson County courthouse steps in Hillsboro at 11 a.m. Monday. The new
commercial airport is part of a plan by a group of wealthy St. Louis Countians
to develop 1,000 acres of vacant property next to Vandermeulen's home.
Vandermeulen said, "We have a lot of questions about who is doing this project
and how much public subsidy they want. Jeffco may not be ready for another
Leonard Griggs."

LEGAL BEAGLE: It was a million-dollar verdict for clients of Doug Dowd of the
city law firm of Dowd & Dowd. First, a jury in St. Louis circuit court judge
Joan Burger's courtroom awarded 25-year-old Kimberly Hanks $ 912,000 after
finding that Vencor Hospital did not properly treat an infection in her right
leg, leading to its amputation. James Hennelly of Hazelwood & Weber defended the
hospital. Then, the federal 8th Circuit Court of Appeals affirmed a $ 350,000
verdict against a Wal-Mart in St. Robert, Mo., on behalf of 56-year-old Harold
Martin of Cuba, Mo., who slipped and fell on loose shotgun pellets on the floor
of the store. Stefan Glynias of Evans & Dixon defended Wal-Mart.

PEOPLE IN PLACES: Tony Award-winning songwriter, lyricist and playwright Stephen
Sondheim will open the Jewish Book Festival at 5:30 p.m. Nov. 7 at the Jewish
Community Center. The festival will run through Nov. 17. Sondheim's credits
include "Sweeney Todd," "Follies," "A Little Night Music," "Company," "Into the
Woods" and "Passion." A dinner will f ollow his talk at the Ritz-Carlton Hotel.
For more info, call 432-5700...

Lee Anna Good jingles when she walks these days. That's because the Forest Park
Forever staffer is spearheading the Pennies for the Park fund-raising campaign
that is deluging the FPF offices with coolers, jars and shoe boxes full of loose
change donated by people to support the restoration of the city's crown jewel.
Armies of groups, schools and families have joined the effort, including the
kids enrolled in public schools' Aim High program, dozens of Laclede Cab
drivers, and 400 Ronnoco coffee vendors, reports Good with a grin...

IN ONE EAR: The International Institute is quietly housing more than 75 Kosovar
refugees in the Lutheran School of Nursing at the South Pointe Hospital on
Jefferson at Miami... The Merc Bank tower for sale and has been privately
listed, according to a high-placed banker...

Southwestern Bell has resumed internal confabs regarding the spinoff of
operations in Arkansas, Missouri, Kansas and Oklahoma, according to an internal
source...

KTVI-TV's (Channel 2) general assignment/feature reporter Paul Schankman
collapsed in the newsroom and was taken to Barnes-Jewish Hospital. He is
expected to return to the station in a week...

Sandy Zak, market master of Soulard Market, has been a supporter of plans to
revitalize the produce barn on our town's near South Side. Her efforts have
inspired the formation of Soulard Market Restoration Inc., a nonprofit group
dedicated to its preservation and improvement. Zak's enthusiasm, in turn, so
moved the Soulard Business Association that they have made the first official
donation to SMR, a check for a cool eight grand...

Pals of Jennings state rep Dana L. Murray are trying out her name as a possible
opponent to vet state senator Wayne Goode of north St. Louis County...

Like a tornado or a tsunami, Ida Goodwin Woolfolk is an irresistible force of
nature. Current prez of the Urban League Guild, Woolfolk recently added a new
honor to a trophy case full of awards. The St. Louis Public Schools
administrator received the annual Gwen B. Giles award from the Legislative Black
Caucus Foundation in Kansas City last week.

END PAPER: It happened on a recent outing in Ireland for the Irish Darby and a
few rounds of golf. While Kevin McGinnis, Tony Karakas, Bill Suntrup and James
Hackett played the Tralee Golf Course, Suntrup hit a long drive and the Irish
caddie jawed, "We call that a Clark Gable shot; 'Gone with the Wind' into the
Atlantic Ocean."

PAINT BY NUMBER: 9th Street Abbey, where caterer Joan Long personally cares for
overflow crowds at weekday lunches and Sunday brunches, is scheduled to get a
new roof, and Long is hoping to use the occasion to lend a touch of the Sistine
Chapel to her eatery. "I want a local Michelangelo to do my ceiling at the same
time," says Long. ...

The old saw, "what's old is new again" might be used for the projected
conversion of the space in the Chase Hotel that was once the Lido Room and will
become the Tack Room, according to hotel maven Jim Smith. Smith said a group of
investors, including himself, architect Joe Klitzing, the hotel's Dean Chinisis
and John Barron are backing the conversion. ...

Anne Desloge Werner Bates' hard drive is full of praise for Bonfanti's
Restaurant on Watson Road. "The painting and gold leafing is by Signor Buffalo,
who did the gold leafing at Vouziers and Beau Rivage (the original Desloge
estates); the chicken in champagne sauce with grapes is heavenly, as is the
Sicilian desert made with 14 liquors." The restaurant is owned by (maitre d')
Tim and (chef) David Bonfanti...

Nicholas Anthony Almond made his debut at Missouri Baptist Med Center, where he
tipped the Toledos at 8 pounds, 12 ounces, much to the joy of parents, Kelli and
Tony Almond, owners of Almond's Restaurant in Clayton.

FROM THE MOUTHS OF BABES: The annual Dan Kelly Memorial Golf Classic at Whitmoor
C.C. was an unqualified hit with more than $ 50,000 raised for the 14 Fund.
Blues senior vice president of Marketing and Communications Jim Woodcock had the
line of the day before dinner.

"I'm very sorry to announce that our featured speaker, the Rev. Al Sharpton,
will not be with us tonight. He is stuck in traffic."

It was love at the first sight of a hockey puck for Tracy Lovasz and Ted Sator.
The former Blues employees - (she's director of promotions and community
relations; he's an assistant coach) were wed the other day in the chambers of
U.S. District Judge Stephen Limbaugh.

A reception for 120 of their closest guys and gals followed at the Lynch Street
Bistro. The crowd included the likes of Mike Claiborne, Joe Micheletti, Brendan
Shanahan, Nelson Emerson, George Csolak with his ever lovin' Janet, Bob Mayhall,
Randy Liebler, Susan Kelly, Ann Kelly, Susie Schrappen, Kelly Chase, Rob Ramage,
Bruce and Cecily Affleck and Ozzie Smith.

LOAD-DATE: July 18, 1999

LANGUAGE: English

GRAPHIC: PHOTO (1) Photo - Kevin McGinnis (from left), Tony Karakas, James
Hackett and Bill Suntrup pose on the links.
 (2) Photo headshots - (Ida Goodwin) Woolfolk; (Stephen) Sondheim

TYPE: Jerry Berger Column

                  Copyright 1999 St. Louis Post-Dispatch, Inc.


                              299 of 457 DOCUMENTS

                       St. Louis Post-Dispatch (Missouri)

                 July 18, 1999, Sunday, FIVE STAR LIFT EDITION

TO GIVE OR GET IDEAS

BYLINE: Dan Mihalopoulos; And Tim O'Neil

SECTION: IMAGINE ST. LOUIS, Pg. B5

LENGTH: 182 words


These organizations have information about immigration to the St. Louis area.

* The International Institute

"Helping people from around the world become self-sufficient St. Louisans" for
80 years.

3800 Park Avenue

St. Louis, Mo. 63110-2514

(314) 773-9090

www.intlinst.org

* The Immigration Project

Legal advice for immigrants.

1320 Niedringhaus Avenue

PO Box 753

Granite City, Il.

(618) 452-7018 or (800) 298-3235

* Jewish Federation of St. Louis

In the 1980s, the federatiaon helped Soviet Jewish refugees settle here.  Now
works with non-Jewish refugees, such as Kurds.

12 Millstone Campus Drive

St. Louis, Mo. 63146

(314) 432-0020

* Plima

This Bosnian magazine has readers here and in other Bosnian communities
nationwide.

Dijana Groth, editor and publisher

P.O. Box 39506

St. Louis, Mo. 63139-8506

(314) 752-3596

* Cherokee Business Association

Pat Brannon, president

3354 Iowa Street

St. Louis, Mo. 63118

(314) 664-8000

LOAD-DATE: July 18, 1999

LANGUAGE: English

                  Copyright 1999 St. Louis Post-Dispatch, Inc.


                              300 of 457 DOCUMENTS

                       St. Louis Post-Dispatch (Missouri)

                 July 18, 1999, Sunday, FIVE STAR LIFT EDITION

BOOKS

BYLINE: Dan Mihalopoulos; And Tim O'Neil

SECTION: IMAGINE ST. LOUIS, Pg. B5

LENGTH: 117 words


* Unwelcome Strangers: American Identity and the Turn Against Immigration, by
David M. Reimers (Columbia University Press, 1999).

* The Unmaking of Americans: How Multiculturalism Has Undermined the
Assimilation Ethic, by John J. Miller (Simon & Schuster, 1998).

* Still the Promised City?: Afro-Americans and New Immigrants in Post-Industrial
New York, by Roger Waldinger (Harvard University Press, 1996).

* Strangers Among Us: How Latino Immigration is Transforming America, by Robert
Suro (Knopf, 1998).

* A Good Scent from a Strange Mountain: Stories by Robert Olen Butler (Penguin
USA, 1993).

* The Immigration Debate: Remaking America, by Robert Isbiter (Kumarian Press,
1996).

LOAD-DATE: July 18, 1999

LANGUAGE: English

                  Copyright 1999 St. Louis Post-Dispatch, Inc.


                              301 of 457 DOCUMENTS

                       St. Louis Post-Dispatch (Missouri)

                 July 18, 1999, Sunday, FIVE STAR LIFT EDITION

HERE'S A LOOK AT THE IMMIGRATION CONVERSATION UP TO NOW.

SECTION: IMAGINE ST. LOUIS, Pg. B5

LENGTH: 558 words


After two May installments of Imagine St. Louis highlighted the region's
immigrants, much of the feedback we received asked: "Is the current wave of
immigrants a boon or a bane for St. Louis and the country?" Among the letters,
e-mails, telephone calls and comments at a public forum, there was some common
ground as well as disagreement.

WHERE PEOPLE AGREE

The United States is a nation built up by immigrants.

"I am a great believer in the melting pot theory, and I think this has done a
lot to make our country great."

-- Hans Dybing

"Yes, yes, I know -- our grandparents, etc. were immigrants -- but this is 1999,
and things are different now."

-- Anonymous letter

===

Integrating immigrants into the American mainstream is a challenge.

"To be sure, some immigrants cannot handle the cultural shock of a move to
America, never learn English or recover to become productive citizens. But their
offspring, schooled in American values and able to negotiate the complexities of
life in modern America, tend to thrive."

-- Ralph Rice

===

"I'm used to seafood. Here, fish is not that plentiful and it's not that cheap.
So I had to get used to eating hamburgers, pizza, burritos and fries, which I
learned to like."

-- Mar Reroma

===

Immigrants often end up doing pretty well in their adopted country.

"The Vietnamese refugees have succeeded in re-establishing their lives.  They
came here with empty hands."

-- Ngoc Doan

"Our kids can't get into medical school because of the influx of foreigners in
the schools."

-- Anonymous letter

======================

WHERE PEOPLE DISAGREE

Is the record-high level of immigration excessive?

"We have way too many foreigners coming into our country now."

-- Anonymous letter

"We should not consider closing our doors, especially in the face of a need by
others. Keep them coming; we've got the room and the hearts to take them in. It
makes America the greatest country on earth."

-- Jay Levine

===

Do immigrants contribute to our prosperity?

"The financial costs are staggering. Hardest hit are America's working pooer,
especially African-Americans."

-- Edward J. Furst

"As far as an impact on the area's economy, it can only be positive! They will
live an improve upon areas that were abandoned by white flight."

-- Jorge A. Veytia

===

Does immigration make it difficult to put up a united cultural front?

"I have a great concern as to whether a majority of them want to become
Americans or wish to retain their their nationality and partake of the benefits
of living in a country developed by Americans."

-- Fred M. Utt

"Perhaps the best reason to welcome immigrants is that the teach us what it
means to be American again."

-- Carolyn Hasenfranz

======================

NUANCES & HIGHLIGHTS

* There is great diversity among the region's immigrants. Not all immigrants are
unskilled and eager to perform menial tasks. Some are highly educated and
quickly join the American middle class.

* Many critics of immigration policy are reluctant to voice their dissent
openly. They say they find it difficult to do so because it's not politically
correct to point out the problems associated with immigration.

LOAD-DATE: July 18, 1999

LANGUAGE: English

GRAPHIC: PHOTO

                  Copyright 1999 St. Louis Post-Dispatch, Inc.


                              302 of 457 DOCUMENTS

                       St. Louis Post-Dispatch (Missouri)

                 July 18, 1999, Sunday, FIVE STAR LIFT EDITION

KEEPING UP WITH IMAGINE'S CONVERSATIONS

SECTION: IMAGINE ST. LOUIS, Pg. B1

LENGTH: 472 words


Emma Lazarus' verse on the base of "Liberty" in the New York harbor sounds
condescending to late 20th-century ears, if not dishonest. Although the U.S. may
still allow the tired, poor and huddled masses inside its golden door,
admittance may be grudging.

But even if we're not exactly putting out the poetic welcome mat anymore by and
large the citizens of this region welcome immigrants and refugees into the
community.

There are evident benefits to the new arrivals: a place to live that is peaceful
and prosperous and far removed from whatever perils and injustices they'd
experienced at home. But equally compelling is the fact that this region, with
all its difficulties, is benefitting directly from their presence here.

Jobs that were going unfilled are being taken by those arriving from abroad.
Neighborhoods that were sliding into decline are being revivified by immigrant
populations. Storefronts in commercial strips that had gone dark are turning on
the lights as immigrant entrepreneurs open restaurants and stores. These
businesses serve not only their fellow countrymen and women, but also the
general public. Established neighborhood businesses -- banks for example --
enjoy the steady patronage of these new customers.

They -- with astonishing industry and alacrity -- are becoming Us.

WRITE OR CALL US

We want to hear what you think about the economic equilibrium achieved in this
region by new residents coming from other countries and cultures. Do you feel
that the region's doing a good job of accommodating men and women who come here,
wanting to live and work along side us? Do you feel that their presence
threatens our own prosperity? Can we do more to make their transitions easier?
Or should we leave the newcomers along to make their ways without help? Tell us
what you think. We'll consider all commu nications available for publication
unless you tell us otherwise.

* Send us a letter:

Imagine St. Louis

St. Louis Post-Dispatch

900 N. Tucker Blvd.

St. Louis, Mo. 63101

* Send us an e-mail: imaginestl@postnet.com

* Send us a fax: (314) 340-4050

* Call us at POSTline: Call (314) 923-2323, tap 4045.

TALK ONLINE TO OTHER CITIZENS

If you are interested in talking about immigration, postnet.com offers an
opportunity. Check out the online version of Imagine St. Louis at
www.postnet.com/imagine.

TALK ON THE AIR

On Thursday, Dan Mihalopoulos, who co-authored today's Imagine St. Louis
articles on immigration, joins Anna Crosslin of the International Institute of
Metropolitan St. Louis for a discussion of the economic impact of immigration on
the region. Their host is Mark Manelli and his show is "St. Louis on the Air."
Call in with your comments.

WHERE: KWMU-FM (90.7).

WHEN: 11 a.m. Thursday.

LOAD-DATE: July 18, 1999

LANGUAGE: English

GRAPHIC: GRAPHIC Color Graphic / Logo - postnet.com

                  Copyright 1999 St. Louis Post-Dispatch, Inc.


                              303 of 457 DOCUMENTS

                       St. Louis Post-Dispatch (Missouri)

                  July 22, 1999, Thursday, THREE STAR EDITION

NURSING SCHOOL GIVES KOSOVARS SHELTER AS AGENCIES HELP WITH JOBS, HOUSING

BYLINE: Tim O'Neil; Of The Post-Dispatch

SECTION: METRO, Pg. B1

LENGTH: 727 words


* More than 190 immigrants have settled here, and the International Institute
estimates that about two-thirds will stay.

The children sailed their new orange Frisbees while their parents answered an
interpreter's serious questions: How old are you? How much education do you
have? What was your job in Kosovo?

Four families of Kosovar refugees went through that drill Wednesday in a meeting
room at the Lutheran Medical Center School of Nursing in south St. Louis. Two
representatives of the International Institute of Metro St. Louis did the
paperwork.

For two of the families, the interviews were conducted in what passes for the
comfort of home. They are among the last wave of Kosovar immigrants who have
been living upstairs in the nursing school dormitory while settlement workers
find more permanent lodging in the city.

Although cramped for large families, the dormitory rooms are convenient and
available. The nursing school is out for the summer. SouthPointe Hospital,
formerly the Lutheran Medical Center, already provides medical care for some of
the many refugees who have come to St. Louis in recent years.

The nursing school opened its dormitory to the Kosovars on June 14, shortly
after the first of 39 families from the Kosovar refugee camps were flown to St.
Louis. All told, 193 Kosovars are here, most of them living in apartments near
South Grand Boulevard and Gravois Avenue.

Suzanne LeLaurin, director of social work at the International Institute, said
she believed about two-thirds of them will decide to stay in the United States.
None of the St. Louis contingent is scheduled on next week's first flight for
Kosovars who want to return to their homeland, which NATO troops entered June 12
after a bombing campaign.

LeLaurin said the nursing school dormitory came in handy because the Kosovars,
unlike many of the other refugees who have come to St. Louis, had no relatives
or fellow nationals already here. That made it hard for the institute staff to
find lodging fast enough.

Kevin Syberg, chief operating officer of SouthPointe Hospital, said the hospital
had housing to spare. Nursing students don't return until Aug. 22, and because
most of the school's 100 students don't use the dormitory anymore, the school
could provide rooms for refugees without having to worry about the coming
student rush.

Syberg also said he hoped that some of them might like the neighbor hood, move
in and use SouthPointe. The hospital, on South Jefferson Avenue just south of
Cherokee Street, is in a neighborhood that has suffered decline.

"There is a lot of housing in this area, and it's a good thing to bring in
people who are resourceful and productive," Syberg said. "It can help stabilize
the city."

The refugees who live in the dormitory at 3547 South Jefferson eat their meals
in the hospital cafeteria and get some medical services. Hospital and school
employees have donated clothing and toys for the families and have organized
trips to Six Flags St. Louis and Union Station.

On Wednesday, workers gave the children gift sacks that included bright orange
Frisbees -- a toy that, according to an interpreter, some of the children hadn't
seen before. But kids being kids, most soon were busy giving wobbly flight to
their new toys.

Their parents sat down with Vildana Basagic, a Bosnian native who volunteers for
the International Institute, and Ermira Stavri, an Albanian who has lived in St.
Louis for three years and who can speak English. Basagic knows some Albanian
words, but the considerable differences between the two languages made Stavri's
presence vital.

Stavri asked the questions, and Basagic filled out the forms. The intent is to
find jobs for the refugees.

Emrush Dullovi, 46, said he was a television-bill collector in Kosovo, a job
that Basagic compared to a door-to-door salesman for a cable-TV company in the
United States. A cousin, Zenel Dullovi, 43, said he had worked as a park ranger
and as a construction laborer.

Emrush Dullovi and his wife, Hikmete, 40, are living in two dormitory rooms with
their six children, who range in age from 4 to 19. Stavri asked them what they
think of the accommodations.

The Dullovis laughed and began talking quickly, with many hand gestures. Stavri
translated the essence: "They say it's OK for now, but it would be nice to have
a house."

LOAD-DATE: July 22, 1999

LANGUAGE: English

GRAPHIC: PHOTO Color PHOTO by JERRY NAUNHEIM JR. /POST-DISPATCH - Ermira Stavri
(left), an Albanian who has lived in St. Louis for three years, translates for
Kosovar immigrant Zenel Dullovi (center) and his family Tuesday during medical
and job screenings at the Lutheran Medical Center School of Nursing.

                  Copyright 1999 St. Louis Post-Dispatch, Inc.


                              304 of 457 DOCUMENTS

                       St. Louis Post-Dispatch (Missouri)

                 July 25, 1999, Sunday, FIVE STAR LIFT EDITION

YOUR LETTERS

SECTION: IMAGINE ST. LOUIS, Pg. B4

LENGTH: 708 words



Give immigrants a good start

I believe that if the U.S. is going to bring immigrants to America they should
stand by them to get them familiar with their new lives. These people are
traveling thousands of miles from their hometowns, leaving their language, jobs,
family and communities behind.

Raed F. Hamdan

St. Louis

Check prejudices at the door

In a booming economy with low unemployment, individuals previously regarded as
"unemployable" become candidates for employment. Our current economic situation
could serve as a window of opportunity for black Americans to participate more
in the labor force and in upward mobility. When they are displaced by
immigrants, due to employer preference or other reasons, America loses its
chance to resolve the disparity in wealth and income between the descendants of
slaves and the general population. With advanced worldwide communications and
travel, immigrants have more of an opportunity to maintain ties to the homeland
and its values. Many immigrants are motivated to become U.S. citizens in order
to bring relatives here in what is called "chain migration," and to enjoy
federal benefits, while continuing to participate in activities (arranged
marriage, animal baiting and sacrifice, subjugation of women) that are
inconsistent with American practices. The "family reunification" doctrine of our
immigration laws makes it difficult for people from countries (such as England,
Ireland, Italy, Germany, Holland, and Scandinavia), whose emigrants arrived in
previous centuries, to come to the U.S. because they are less likely to have
close relatives here. Meanwhile, more recent immigrants can easily bring family
members to the U.S. Finally, with regard to "organizing" immigrants to avoid
conflict (as Semco Plastic Co. Inc. must do), I believe that immigrants should
be told, forcefully, that they need to check their prejudices at the door (or at
the Statue of Liberty) and learn to participate in American life and culture
without inflicting the grievances of other continents on the United States.

Eleanor P. Simpson

Creve Coeur

Legal immigration helps all

LEGAL immigration is a very good thing for any city and our country. Legal
immigration provides a modicum of balance and that is good. Why won't any media
outlet focus on ILLEGAL immigration and stay focused on it until it gets fully
understood? ILLEGAL immigration is a crime or should be. It is very difficult to
understand anyone having a problem with LEGAL immigration. It is equally
difficult to understand the media's reluctance to highlight ILLEGAL immigration
as a crime and one that is easily solved. Living along I-44, it is easy to see
and talk with not only the ILLEGAL immigrants but with the people hauling them
across country. The illegals say they are visiting relatives. One hauler said,
"Hey, the money is good and three years I will retire"! The media, meantime, has
its collective head up a sand pile. If you are going to profile LEGAL
immigration with a focus then profile ILLEGAL immigration with a focus complete
with organized religion's involvement. Also profile the cost of border patrol
efforts, education, medical costs, apprehension and incarceration, feeding and
clothing, transportation, legal costs in general and the military involvement.
When the media calculates in all those costs then there will be a true picture
of ILLEGAL immigrations cost. Please get your collective media heads out of the
sand pile!

Billy J. Montgomery

Waynesville

Melting pot as an experiment

Is the "melting pot" of the 20th century a strength for this country, as our
leaders always say or is it a social experiment with high risks, if it fails? If
it were a strength we would not spend so much time and energy on the subject. It
obviously would be in everyone's best interest if this experiment is successful.
History is not much comfort. When was the last time something like this, on such
a scale, succeeded? Not in the USSR, Ireland, the Middle East or Yugoslavia. Our
wealth and prosperity do much to gloss over frictions. I doubt that this is
politically correct; it is intended to stimulate thinking.

Leonard F. Lang

St. Louis

LOAD-DATE: July 25, 1999

LANGUAGE: English

                  Copyright 1999 St. Louis Post-Dispatch, Inc.


                              305 of 457 DOCUMENTS

                       St. Louis Post-Dispatch (Missouri)

                  July 29, 1999, Thursday, THREE STAR EDITION

HISPANIC IMMIGRANTS KEEP GEORGIA BUSINESSES RUNNING

BYLINE: The Associated Press

SECTION: NEWS, Pg. A8

LENGTH: 543 words

DATELINE: SUWANEE, GA.


Thousands of Hispanic immigrants - legal and illegal - have flooded into the
heart of the New South recently, providing powerful muscle to Georgia's humming
economic engine.

Migration from Mexico and Central America, once concentrated from Texas to the
West Coast, started turning toward the Southeast in the past decade. The job
market around Atlanta, one of the fastest-growing U.S. cities for much of the
past 20 years, has drawn Hispanics like a magnet.

"I started in Houston, but some of the jobs, you don't make much money," said
Ernesto Alvarez, assistant manager at a McDonald's in this Atlanta suburb. "Some
friends tell me about Atlanta, and how good it was here, so I came four years
ago and I like it a lot."

Even after slavery, blacks in Georgia were stuck in backbreaking, low-paying
jobs. Since the 1960s, a thriving black middle class has emerged - especially in
Atlanta - and employers find it more difficult to get cheap labor.

Hispanics have helped fill that void by taking jobs hanging drywall, planting
shrubs, flipping burgers or plucking chickens.

"This group is essentially taking the jobs that Georgians don't want to do but
need to have done," said University of Georgia sociologist Doug Bachtel.

Perhaps that is why hardly anyone has complained about the influx of immigrants.

Since 1990, the state's Hispanic population has at least doubled, hitting
207,000 in 1997, according to the Census Bureau. Researchers and immigration
officials say the real number is probably closer to 750,000 with illegal
immigrants thrown in. Estimates call for the numbers to exceed 1.5 million by
2005, or about 12 percent of the state's population.

State unemployment levels have steadily dropped as the population has grown,
reaching 3.5 percent in May, a 28-year low.

"The additional labor supply is one of the main things that is helping Georgia
sustain its tremendous economic growth," University of Georgia economic
forecaster Jeffrey Humphreys said.

Employers say they wouldn't be able to stay afloat without the immigrants.

When the Immigration and Naturalization Service began deporting illegal
immigrants last year during the Vidalia onion harvest, Sen. Paul Coverdell
intervened. Farmers said the onions would rot in the field if Mexican laborers
were sent home.

A few years ago, most Hispanic immigrants took jobs in agriculture. But
Hispanics have been taking more visible jobs in the construction and service
industries.

Kim Dobbs, director of operations for Alvarez's restaurant and eight others in
northeast Georgia, said about half of her work force is Hispanic.

"We welcome all applicants, but these people really want to work," said Dobbs,
who said the average wage at Alvarez's store is $ 8.16 an hour.

Construction companies pay as high as $ 15-$ 20 an hour, but it's backbreaking
work in sometimes brutal heat. Without Hispanics, builders could not meet
demand.

Most of the immigrants are young men, who send much of their pay home to wives
or parents. Few have cars and most share small apartments with eight or nine
others.

"Their quality of life is that they are working," said Mexican Consul General
Teodoro Maus. "They go job to job, and sleep a little while and go work again."

LOAD-DATE: July 29, 1999

LANGUAGE: English

GRAPHIC: PHOTO THE ASSOCIATED PRESS Photo - Ernesto Alvarez hands change to a
customer at the McDonald's in Suwanee, Ga., where he is an assistant manager.
Alvarez says he's grateful to the area for providing him an opportunity, which
he now shares with his four older brothers.

                  Copyright 1999 St. Louis Post-Dispatch, Inc.


                              306 of 457 DOCUMENTS

                       St. Louis Post-Dispatch (Missouri)

                July 29, 1999, Thursday, FIVE STAR LIFT EDITION

NATION

BYLINE: From News Services

SECTION: NEWS, Pg. A8

LENGTH: 1011 words



Police investigate reported rapes at Woodstock '99

New York State Police are investigating reports of four rapes at the Woodstock
'99 festival last weekend in Rome, N.Y., according to today's editions of The
Washington Post. A spokesman for the state police confirmed that detectives are
looking into the reports, with at least two of the alleged rapes purportedly
taking place on the festival campgrounds. Police investigator David Krause said
one assault allegedly took place in front of the stage during a set by one of
the musical groups. A 24-year-old woman from Pittsburgh told police that two men
assaulted her and one of them raped her. "Due to the congestion of the crowd,
she felt that if she yelled for help or fought, she feared she was going to be b
eaten," the police investigation report said.

Deal will nullify ballot measure on illegal immigrants

California Gov. Gray Davis has struck a deal with civil rights organizations
that will effectively nullify a controversial ballot measure that sought to
limit services to illegal immigrants, the Los Angeles Times reported today.
Davis has agreed not to appeal a federal court ruling that held much of the
voter-approved initiative Proposition 187 to be unconstitutional, the newspaper
said. The deal was expected to be approved today by the U.S. 9th Circuit Court
of Appeals in San Francisco. Proposition 187 sought to bar illegal immigrants
from attending public schools or getting social services and subsidized health
care.

Bradley opens Iowa campaign headquarters

Former New Jersey Sen. Bill Bradley formally opened his campaign headquarters
Wednesday, saying a competitive fight for the Democratic presidential nomination
would be good for the country. "I think competitio n is what America is all
about," said Bradley. "I don't see why two candidates running for office can't
push each other to more clearly define and to lay out a vision for the country."
Bradley spoke to about 100 activists in Des Moines, Iowa, then lunched with key
operatives.

FBI looks for link with confessed killer, other crimes

The FBI has assembled a team of investigators to find out whether a hotel
handyman who confessed to killing a Yosemite National Park naturalist and three
sightseers can be tied to other unsolved crimes. Cary Stayner, 37, is charged
with beheading Joie Ruth Armstrong on July 21 and is a suspect in the February
killings of Carole Sund, her daughter Juli, and family friend Silvina Pelosso.
Stayner confessed to all four slayings during interviews by the FBI, law
enforcement sources have told the Associated Press. He also described the crimes
in a jailhouse interview with a television reporter. Unsolved crimes in the area
include the beheading of a prostitute and the stabbing death of a woman whose
body was burned afterward.

Sheriff testifies against drug recipes on Internet

Instructions for making the illegal drug methamphetamine are easy to get from
the Internet, witnesses told a Senate panel considering a ban on online drug
recipes. Sheriff Ron Doerge of Newton County in southwestern Missouri, on
Wednesday showed senators a chemical-stained sheaf of meth-making instructions a
teen-ager had copied from an Internet site he looked up using a public library's
computer. The boy used the directions to make methamphetamine several times
before he was caught, Doerge said. "We need to eliminate these recipes from the
Internet," Doerge told the Senate Judiciary Committee. Methamphetamine became a
serious problem during the 1990s, particularly in the Southwest and Midwest,
said Donnie Marshall, acting head of the Drug Enforcement Administration.

Wreckage of 1948 plane crash is found in Alaska

Fifty-one years after a chartered Northwest Airlines plane crashed into a peak
in Alaska's remote Wrangell Mountains, the wreckage was found on an unnamed
glacier, the National Park Service said Wednesday in Anchorage. The March 12,
1948, crash of the DC-4 killed all 24 passengers and six crew members. The crash
site, in the midst of an icefall on the mountain in Wrangell-St. Elias National
Park, was inaccessible for decades, the Park Service said. Glacial movement has
brought the debris from the icefall into a less dangerous area. Searchers Marc
Millican and Kevin McGregor, pilots for Northwest and Delta, reached the debris
Saturday, the Park Service said.

Judge overturns restrictions on drug companies

A federal judge struck down as unconstitutional Wednesday a law allowing the
government to restrict information drug companies can give doctors about
unapproved uses of medicines. U.S. District Judge Royce Lamberth ruled that the
Food and Drug Modernization Act illegally restricts the free speech of drug
companies. He termed government arguments defending the limits "preposterous."
Lamberth last year struck down Food and Drug Administration guidelines for drug
companies, but similar restrictions were also included in the FDA Modernization
Act, which he overturned Wednesday. In question is the distribution of research
reports and medical journal articles focusing on using drugs for illnesses other
than the ones they were originally approved for. Many drugs have more than one
use and doctors often learn of such "off label" uses through such studies. But
the FDA had sought to restrict drug companies from promoting their products by
distributing these reports.

Peru releases two American women from prison

Two American women who had been held in a Peruvian prison for attempting to
smuggle cocaine out of the country were released Tuesday. The women, Jennifer
Davis, 22, a native of Danville, Ill., and Krista B arnes, whose age was
unavailable, of California, could be forced to stay in Peru another three to six
months while Peru considers approving their transfer to the United States. If it
grants approval, the Justice Department will send a federal magistrate to Peru
to bring the women back to the United States, where they would serve the rest of
their six-year sentence on parole.

LOAD-DATE: July 29, 1999

LANGUAGE: English

GRAPHIC: PHOTO THE ASSOCIATED PRESS Photo
 East Coast cowboys herd wild ponies for swim - Foals of the wild Assateague
Island ponies splash into the Assateague Channel on Wednesday in Chincoteague,
Va. Leading the cowboys at the 74th annual pony swim is David Savage,
co-chairman of the Saltwater Cowboys of the Chincoteague Island volunteer fire
department (foreground).

TYPE: Nation Briefs Column

                  Copyright 1999 St. Louis Post-Dispatch, Inc.


                              307 of 457 DOCUMENTS

                       St. Louis Post-Dispatch (Missouri)

               September 3, 1999, Friday, FIVE STAR LIFT EDITION

POVERTY RATE FOR IMMIGRANTS IN MISSOURI EXCEEDS AVERAGE;
STATE HAS HAD INFLUX OF REFUGEES IN 1990S;
IMPACT ON SERVICES IS STUDIED

BYLINE: Philip Dine; Post-Dispatch Washington Bureau

SECTION: NEWS, Pg. A1

LENGTH: 1174 words

DATELINE: WASHINGTON


Immigrants in Missouri are almost three times more likely than American-born
residents to live in poverty, says a research group that studies immigration.

That's among the highest discrepancies between foreign-born and U.S.-born
residents in any state.

About 29 percent of Missouri's immigrants and refugees live below the poverty
line, compared to 11 percent for the rest of the state's population, according
to the Center for Immigration Studies in Washington. The center estimated that
some 34,000 immigrants live in poverty in Missouri.

"The gap between immigrants and natives in Missouri appears to be quite large,"
said Steven A. Camarota, who conducted the study. "And poverty among immigrants
is extremely prevalent in the St. Louis area."

By contrast, Illinois had a poverty rate among immigrants of 16 percent. Among
people born in the United States now living there, it was 10 percent.

Gary Stangler, director of the Missouri Department of Social Services, said his
department is trying to figure out how to respond.

"Certainly it's something that's new to this state, the growing in-migration.
South and south central Missouri are full of poor immigrants, with the
meat-packing plants, the poultry industry. Ten years ago, they never heard of
us," Stangler said Thursday from Jefferson City.

"I think when we see the 2000 census, we're going to be shocked by the changes
that have taken place in this state since 1990 and the growth of the Hispanic
population."

The 57-page report, "Importing Poverty: Immigration's Impact on the Size and
Growth of the Poor Population in the United States," was released Thursday and
was the topic of a panel discussion on Capitol Hill. George Borjas, a professor
at Harvard University's Kennedy School of Government, cited the "foreignization
of poverty in the United States."

The center, a nonprofit research group concerned about rising immigration,
examined the Census Bureau's current population estimates. The numbers showed a
dramatic change in Missouri.

Ten years ago, poverty among immigrants in the state was 18 percent, compared to
13 percent for American-born residents.

At that time, immigration to St. Louis was heavy among Chinese, Koreans,
Filipinos and Latin Americans drawn by the area's scientific, medical or
educational institutions.

The past decade has seen two major shifts.

The flow of refugees to St. Louis - Bosnians, Albanians, Romanians, Ethiopians,
Iraqis, Vietnamese - has risen, and constitutes as much as one-third of the
total flow of immigrants into the area. Nationally, refugees are one-tenth of
immigrants admitted. Because many refugees fled for their lives, often
traumatized and with only the clothes on their back, they often struggle
economically.

And Mexicans are leading a growing immigrant stream to St. Louis. Many are
secondary migrants, leaving California or other states because of hostility and
drawn by the quiet of St. Louis, its good job market and low cost of living.
Some are undocumented and have problems finding good jobs.

Both trends help explain the mounting poverty found among Missouri's
foreign-born population, Camarota said.

Stangler said that in a sign of burgeoning state interest, earlier this week a
new legislative committee on immigration held its first hearing, in Sedalia. And
a few days ago, he met with demographers at the University of Missouri to
commission a study about the needs of immigrants.

"There is very little movement of the Hispanic immigrants to take advantage of
any social services," Stangler said. "I can only speculate that has something to
do with their documentation status or fear for family members.

"I want to find out how big this issue is getting to be out there, especially as
concerns schools and social services, because I don't think it's going to go
away. This is an issue that's going to grow, and we need to be finding out what
it is that we should be planning for."

While Missouri stands out, the sustained U.S. immigration flow over the past
couple of decades has increased the number of Americans living in poverty, the
center said.

Since 1979, the number of impoverished immigrants has nearly tripled, to 7.7
million from 2.7 million, accounting for three-quarters of the entire increase
in the number of poor people. While the poverty rate for native households has
remained steady at 12 percent, it grew for immigrants from 16 percent in 1979 to
19 percent in 1989 to 22 percent now.

This complicates the war on poverty while adding to the tax burden, said center
director Mark Krikorian. If current immigration levels continue, 10 million will
arrive over the next decade, adding to problems related to poverty such as teen
pregnancy, school dropouts and crime, he said.

Limiting immigration and letting in those with job skills as opposed to family
reunification would make the war on poverty more manageable, he said.

Stephen Moore, chief economist at the Cato Institute, challenged the findings in
part.

"I'm not saying everything's rosy about immigration. I'm disturbed by these
poverty rates among immigrants, but it would not be in our national interest or
our economic interest to close the door to legal immigrants," Moore said.

He said the study may not have "picked up the very rapid economic assimilation
of immigrants." Poverty rates among immigrants tend to be higher for 15 years,
then catch up to the native-born, and after 20 years actually be lower, Moore
said.

"Because of the rising wave of immigration in recent years, for every new
immigrant getting off poverty, there are two new ones coming in who are in
poverty," he said. "And refugees tend to be the biggest group in poverty. That's
the reason you have such a high level of immigrants in poverty in Missouri."

Anna Crosslin, president of the International Institute, St. Louis' largest
refugee resettlement agency, said it is tricky to measure the economic status of
refugees.

"You're taking a snapshot of a person at a certain stage of their development. .
. . If you go back to that family later, they're out of poverty because they've
got a job."

Ahmed Bashir Hassen arrived in St. Louis in 1992. Fluent in five languages, he
was a professor of agronomy in Somalia, where he also helped nomads grow rice.
In St. Louis, the father of seven first worked as a security guard for MetroLink
and as a social worker at the Islamic Center. Then he was a public school
teaching assistant and a valet parking attendant. Now he drives a cab and is a
substitute teacher.

"I've always had two jobs at a time," Hassen said, admitting that things can be
tough in St. Louis, which lacks large ethnic communities to help newcomers.

"For those people who can communicate, the study is not accurate. On South
Grand, most of the restaurants, most of the stores, are owned by immigrants. But
for 40 percent, it's true. It's not because they are lazy, not because they
don't know how to work. It's because they don't know the system and the
language."

LOAD-DATE: September 3, 1999

LANGUAGE: English

                  Copyright 1999 St. Louis Post-Dispatch, Inc.


                              308 of 457 DOCUMENTS

                       St. Louis Post-Dispatch (Missouri)

                  September 6, 1999, Monday, FIVE STAR EDITION

THEY CAME FOR FREEDOM IN "BEAUTIFUL COUNTRY"

BYLINE: Mei-Ling Hopgood; Of The Post-Dispatch

SECTION: NEWS, Pg. A1

LENGTH: 2233 words

DATELINE: ULLIN, ILL.


* Eighty-eight Chinese men and women who hired smugglers in a failed attempt to
slip into the country wait in an Illinois prison for political or religious
asylum. If they were freed, they could be in danger from the smugglers.
Meanwhile, they wait behind bars for their cases to be heard.

This spring hundreds of people boarded steamers off Fujian province in China
with dreams of freedom in Meiguo. America. The Mandarin word means "beautiful
country."

In Meiguo, they hoped to find a new life and escape a haunting past.

But they got caught, and now 88 of those people -- 53 men and 35 women -- find
themselves in a maximum security prison in this village surrounded by an ocean
of soybeans and corn at the southern tip of Illinois.

They weren't supposed to be here. U.S. Immigration and Naturalization Service
officials were ready to send them to shelters in larger cities. But officials
said that the smugglers who tried to slip the Chinese into the United States for
heavy fees have threatened their families. The fear is the Chinese might be
kidnapped and held hostage until they paid.

So in early August, the INS decided that the small band of expatriates can't
leave Ullin until after hearings are held on their request for political and
religious asylum. These are expected to begin in a few weeks.

Residents have rallied to their cause, providing legal help. They've also
donated soap and Chinese Bibles and offered instruction to the jail on how to
prepare Chinese food.

Meanwhile, national refugee advocates are furious that the Chinese are being
detained in such a remote place. Ullin, population 500, is about 160 miles
southeast of St. Louis.

"They took these people into the middle of nowhere and dumped them," said Diane

   Speir, a lawyer in Carbondale, Ill., who is organizing a leg al team to take
their cases. "They have no network, no safety net in place."

Matt Wilch visited the jail soon after the Chinese arrived. He went there on
behalf of the Lutheran Immigration and Refugee Service in Baltimore to explain
the legal process the Chinese faced. In an unusual show of cooperation, the INS
paid for a team of lawyers from New York, California and Arizona to come to
Ullin.

Wilch's group organized the lawyers, who tried to get the Chinese "paroled," or
released from the prison while they awaited their immigration hearings.

The guards announced Wilch's arrival. The men in their bright orange prison
jumpsuits silently climbed down from their blue steel bunks or got up from card
games. Eyes wide with worry, they crossed their legs and sat lotus-style on the
floor.

Wilch asked them, through an interpreter, "Do you know where you are?"

They shook their heads.

On an easel, he used a black marker to scrawl a shape that vaguely resembled the
United States. He drew a small circle at the right end.

"This is New York," he said, writing the name in English.

He pointed to the left.

"This is San Francisco."

He pointed to the middle. "Chicago."

He moved his marker south of Chicago.

"And this is where you are."

Some of his audience cocked their heads in puzzlement. Most had never heard of
Illinois before, let alone Ullin.

But they seemed relieved. At least now their temporary home had a name.

Community helps out

The Tri-County Detention Center sits off Interstate 57, not far from the wooded
hills of Shawnee National Forest.

County officials built the prison too big. They only needed about 40 beds but
wound up with 210. To fill the space, prison officials started taking federal
prisoners, including immigration detainees. The prison, privately owned by GRW
Corp. of Nashville, Tenn., started out with about 50 immigration detainees in
April and now has more than 170, including the Chinese. Others are from South
America, Iraq and Iran.

Each immigrant brings the jail about $ 40 a night. The INS often puts detainees
in local prisons, though most are not in such isolated areas. More than 17,500
immigrants seeking asylum are in prisons and jails nationwide.

INS officials say they chose Ullin so that all the Chinese detainees could stay
together. The men are assigned to a large open pod. Their bunks, steel tables
and chairs, and bathroom area are all in one immaculate room. The 35 women share
another pod.

Each detainee is allowed outside about one hour a day in fenced corridors that
resemble dog runs. They also use the gym. About once a week, they help mow the
lawn, cook or clean.

Even those who disagree the most with the imprisonment of immigrants seeking
asylum say that Ullin prison officials and the local community have been
especially accommodating.

When the Chinese first arrived, Michael Kleinik, prison administrator, drove
about 20 miles to a Wal-Mart to buy 120 pairs of nylon and cotton underwear for
the women. The Chinese arrived in INS-issued green shorts and shirts.

Officials provided detainees with phone cards so they could call their families.
Many have relatives or friends in the United States.

Officials also adjusted the prison menu. Kleinik wanted to greet them with a
hearty dinner of chicken breasts and rice. He found out too late that Chinese
generally prefer dark meat. The jail regularly serves rice porridge, a staple
for many Chinese, and hot tea.

Kleinik hired four local Chinese Americans to be interpreters. They offer
English classes twice a week and collected Chinese newspapers and books. Lists
are taped to the prison door, translations of basic words such as soap, razor
and water.

"We have to make a safe environment for the detainees," Kleinik said. "If we
can, we want to help people out."

Some of the women made tiny origami figures for Kleinik, thanking him for the
kindness of jail officials. The folded paper - some smaller than a thumbprint -
sits on his desk and hang on his door. There are cranes, hearts and tiny stars.

All are symbols for good luck.

China's one-child policy

Most of these 88 people come from Fujian province, a coastal region known for
its earthen homes, tea and red-cliff mountains. Just east of it is the island of
Taiwan. More than 31 million people live in Fujian. Many of those imprisoned in
Ullin come from villages in beautiful and often harshly poor areas, where
farmers slog barefoot through rice paddies and use water buffalo to pull plows
through their fields.

It's also a province where officials have launched several campaigns to enforce
the country's one-child policy. In China, families are allowed one child to
control population growth.

One of those in Ullin, a 27-year-old woman, told an interpreter that she had two
children and was pregnant with a third. She said the birth control device the
government implanted in her uterus malfunctioned. She and her family fled.
Officials removed the furniture from her home and sprayed "candidate for
sterilization" on the wall.

She returned home and was ordered to have an abortion and be sterilized. Doctors
said two operations in one day would be dangerous, so someone decided she should
be sterilized first. After the operation, she ran away and had the third child.

Local officials demanded heavy fines and threatened to arrest her husband if
they weren't paid. He fled to Germany.

The woman borrowed more money to pay the fines and for her husband's passage
overseas. Officials and loan sharks hounded her. She lived in fear.

Then she heard about the boat to Meiguo, the "beautiful country."

Her sister told her not to worry about money. Just go.

On April 16, with the hope that she could later send for her children and be
reunited with her husband, she left.

Also among the prisoners is a man named Lin, who declined to give his first
name. He used to teach Chinese literature at a college that trains teachers. One
day, he boldly told colleagues that he believed Kosovo should be free from
Yugoslavia.

A week later, Lin, 30, was arrested. When he got out of jail, he fled to a
neighboring province. His family told him about the boats.

The stories are often similar. Men and women who had more than one child and
were sterilized. Women forced to have abortions. At least two Christians who
said they were bullied for practicing an organized religion. A victim of
domestic abuse.

These people - mostly in their 20s and 30s - believed that America was their way
out. And whether they knew it was illegal or not, they believed the boats were
the only way to get there.

During the spring, they and more than 300 others boarded the steamers at
different ports. They suffered from seasickness and nausea. Often they could not
stretch their legs in the cramped quarters beneath decks of the old ships. They
ate one meal of rice a day and used buckets instead of bathrooms.

The Coast Guard and INS intercepted the boats on the Pacific Ocean. The Chinese
were taken to the Northern Marianas, a group of islands east of the Philippines.
The agency decided 89 of them would go to Illinois, and a judge would hear their
cases for asylum.

On July 4, after a stop in Los Angeles, they arrived at Mid-America Airport.
They boarded rented Greyhound buses that took them to the Tri-County Detention
Center. Prison officials sent one juvenile to a youth detention center in
Chicago. The rest were booked and admitted.

On their first night, the new inmates moved the mattresses from the top bunks to
the floor so they could all sleep together.

Hiding from "Snakeheads"

The detainees are still haunted by the smugglers who arranged their passage.
"Setou," the Chinese call them. Snakeheads.

These people often charge $ 30,000 to $ 50,000 per person, refugee advocates
say. They promise a boat ride to Guam and a plane ride to the United States.

The smugglers, refugee advocates say, often force their passengers to work in
sweatshops or as prostitutes or in other shady businesses until they pay off
their transit debt. Those who don't pay are sometimes held hostage in basements
until a family member takes care of the debt, INS spokesman Russ Bergeron said.
Sometimes they threaten to kill the hostage or cut off body parts to get
families to pay.

So when the agency heard reports that the smugglers had contacted families
seeking payment, officials decided not to let the Chinese out of Ullin until
their hearings.

That decision angered lawyers for the detainees and human rights advocates, who
said they couldn't afford to make regular trips to a place as remote as Ullin.
The Chinese would be kept in an isolated area with few immigration lawyers to
help them, said Wilch, of Lutheran Immigration and Refugee Service. Valid claims
for asylum could be lost.

Speir, the Carbondale lawyer, read about the Chinese in a local paper. The human
rights activist decided to volunteer. She is trying to recruit a team of local
lawyers, most of whom have little, if any, experience in immigration law. The
Immigration Project, a nonprofit group in Granite City, will train the lawyers
and may represent some clients.

Money is tight and time short. They must prepare each detainee's application and
conduct interviews. Preliminary hearings are expected to begin in mid-September.
The final hearings, when the detainees will make their claim for asylum, are
expected in October. If they're allowed to stay, the hope is the network of
agencies and their families will protect them from the Snakeheads.

Residents of Ullin have donated calling cards. Church groups have brought in old
magazines so that the Chinese women could use them to make origami. Carol
Gericke, a minister, and her husband, Jonathan, live in Marion, Ill., and offer
Bible study to the inmates once a week. A Carbondale psychotherapist is offering
counseling.

When the Chinese detainees first arrived, Carmen Fang, an accountant and Chinese
restaurant owner in Carbondale, sent her son and a young woman to help as
interpreters. Fang advised the jail how to make the rice porridge. Pei Lin Ko,
another interpreter at the jail, postponed her return to her native Taiwan until
this week. The Southern Illinois University music major wanted to help as long
as she could.

Meanwhile, the immigration service prepares its case against the Chinese.  No
matter their plight, officials say they broke the law by attempting to enter the
country without proper documents. About 40 percent of the people who make it
this far are granted asylum, the INS' Bergeron said.

The waiting is tough.

"I come here for freedom. Everything is nice as far as living conditions in here
are concerned. But there's no freedom," said Lin, the teacher.

Many of the women are scared. They seem especially small, lost in the baggy
prison jumpsuits. Their silhouettes are tiny against the long, white walls of
the prison. Some women grab each other's hands, shyly cowering away from
strangers. One woman constantly talks of doom.

The men seem more optimistic.

"I just hope we can get the support of the American people and the American
government," aid Qin Rui Ma, 34, a taxi driver. He and his family hid from
authorities after they had two children.

Ma worries constantly about getting out - or rather not going back. He hopes
that one day he can bring his entire family to Meiguo.

Read more about repression in China and U.S. policy toward Chinese asylum
seekers at postnet.com/links

LOAD-DATE: September 6, 1999

LANGUAGE: English

GRAPHIC: PHOTO (1) Color PHOTO by JAMIE RECTOR / POST-DISPATCH - Chinese
detainees wait at Tri-County Detention Center in Ullin, Ill., for their
immigration hearings. Many of the 88 people have family already in America or
hope to bring the rest of their families here from China.
 (2) Color PHOTO by JAMIE RECTOR / POST-DISPATCH - Some of the Chinese held in
Ullin, Ill., take part in a Bible study at the Tri-County Detention Center.
Neighbors of the prison have come to the detainees' aid, offering phone cards,
Bibles and interpreting services.
 (3) Color Photo by JAMIE RECTOR / POST-DISPATCH - Jonathan Gericke of Marion,
Ill., leads a Bible study session for detainees at the Ullin, Ill., prison.
Gericke and his wife, Carol, who is a minister, helped locate the Chinese Bibles
for those awaiting immigration hearings.
 (4) Color Photo by JAMIE RECTOR / POST-DISPATCH - Carmen Fang, owner of a
Chinese restaurant in Carbondale, Ill., is one of many volunteers helping to
make the detainees' stay more tolerable. Fang gave chefs a recipe for rice
porridge and sent her son and another person to the prison to help interpret.

                  Copyright 1999 St. Louis Post-Dispatch, Inc.


                              309 of 457 DOCUMENTS

                       St. Louis Post-Dispatch (Missouri)

               September 17, 1999, Friday, FIVE STAR LIFT EDITION

CHINESE SEEKING ASYLUM WILL BE FREED FROM PRISON

BYLINE: The Associated Press

SECTION: METRO, Pg. B4

LENGTH: 218 words

DATELINE: ULLIN, ILL.


The U.S. Immigration and Naturalization Service says it will release 34 Chinese
asylum-seekers being held in a southern Illinois jail and will not challenge the
requests of 54 others to be moved.

The asylum-seekers have been held at the 205-bed Tri-County Detention Center
about 110 miles southeast of St. Louis since June 4, shortly after they were
found hiding in the holds of gangsters' ships in the waters off Guam.

INS spokesman Russ Bergeron said attorneys for 34 of the detainees convinced the
agency their clients would be safe from organized crime smuggling gangs, to whom
the detainees are in debt for about $ 30,000 each. INS officials said the
detainees were being held for their own protection.

Refugee advocates, however, said the asylum-seekers should not be held in
prison, especially in deep southern Illinois, far from most attorneys with
immigration experience who could take their cases.

Of the more than 400 Chinese people found aboard the ships, only 89 were allowed
into the United States. The 35 women, 53 men and one teen-age boy - who was
released to a shelter in Chicago because of his age - were found to have a
"credible fear" of persecution if returned home.

INS officials say the gangsters who ran the ships have been indicted on charges
of smuggling humans.

LOAD-DATE: September 17, 1999

LANGUAGE: English

                  Copyright 1999 St. Louis Post-Dispatch, Inc.


                              310 of 457 DOCUMENTS

                       St. Louis Post-Dispatch (Missouri)

              September 28, 1999, Tuesday, FIVE STAR LIFT EDITION

JEFFERSON CITY PLANS FOR BOOM IN HISPANIC IMMIGRATION

BYLINE: The Associated Press

SECTION: METRO, Pg. B4

LENGTH: 379 words

DATELINE: JEFFERSON CITY


No one knows just how many Hispanic immigrants may settle in mid-Missouri in the
coming years, but civic and government leaders of the capital city aren't
waiting to find out before they prepare.

Sixty people, representing everything from churches to law enforcement to the
Chamber of Commerce, traveled last week to Rogers, Ark., to learn what
challenges to expect - and how to meet them - when the inevitable Hispanic
population boom occurs.

"Immigration is happening all over the Midwest," said Don Shinkle, president of
the Jefferson City Area Chamber of Commerce, who organized the trip.

"Anybody in a position of responsibility, whether it's civic, the government or
education, ... if you're not addressing those issues now, then we're not doing
our jobs," he said.

Jefferson City and Rogers, Ark., are roughly the same size - about 36,000
residents - but with a key difference.

In recent years, Rogers has attracted thousands of immigrants from abroad.
Students in the northwest Arkansas city's schools speak about 30 languages,
chiefly Spanish.

Jefferson City's Hispanic population is far smaller. The school district's
English as a Second Language program has about 50 to 60 students, mainly
children of Hispanic immigrants.

But that will change.

"I expect the Hispanic population to steadily increase here," said Rex Campbell,
a professor of rural sociology at the University of Missouri at Columbia. "I
expect the start of a significant increase soon."

Officials in Rogers addressed their growing Hispanic population with a
multicultural forum, which provided public discussion about how to deal with
language and cultural differences.

To Shinkle, that sounded like a good idea. He and his staff will ask the
Jefferson City Area Chamber's board next month to establish a "multicultural
action team" that would serve as a forum for public conversation on immigrants.

As in Rogers, Shinkle said, churches will be asked to help with the committee's
formation.

The Rev. David Phelps, pastor of Jefferson City's First Baptist Church, is
willing to be involved in the effort. Phelps said local Baptists have 50 members
in their Hispanic fellowship and that the church is bringing in a full-time
Hispanic pastor from Mexico.

LOAD-DATE: September 28, 1999

LANGUAGE: English

                  Copyright 1999 St. Louis Post-Dispatch, Inc.


                              311 of 457 DOCUMENTS

                       St. Louis Post-Dispatch (Missouri)

                October 3, 1999, Sunday, FIVE STAR LIFT EDITION

KEEPING UP WITH IMAGINE'S CONVERSATIONS

SECTION: IMAGINE ST. LOUIS, Pg. B1

LENGTH: 435 words


It doesn't take much looking to discover the contribution of immigrants to the
culture of the St. Louis region. Each successive wave of immigration has brought
with it music, dances, literature, paintings, sculptures, costumes, food -- the
raw materials of a rich and vital atmosphere for living.

This week, Imagine St. Louis continues a discussion about immigrants and
refugees that began in May. Also this week, the topic will be in the new Imagine
St. Louis show on KMOV-TV (Channel 4). This 30-minute journalistic partnership
of newspaper and television station appears every Sunday at 10 a.m. This Sunday,
Myriam Wright of KMOV and Post-Dispatch reporter Tim O'Neil meet on the air with
Ann Rynearson of the International Institute of Metropolitan St. Louis and
Michael Kimzey of the Japanese American Citizens League.

WHERE: KMOV-TV (Channel 4).

WHEN: 10 a.m. Sunday.

HOLD YOUR OWN DISCUSSION

The newspaper and television versions of Imagine St. Louis proceed from a belief
that engagement in public life spawns responsible regional growth and creative
problem solving. Your ideas are contributing factors to progress. Send them to
the address below and we'll publish what we can.

WRITE OR CALL US

Your calls, letters and comments contributed to Imagine St. Louis -- be it the
newspaper version or the new Imagine St. Louis on KMOV -- are building blocks of
a pool of information that we hope will be useful and planning for the region's
future. Contributing is simple: Send us an e-mail message, letter or fax. The
ideas we receive sometimes make their way into print, but all of them are saved
and used by reporters and editors to prepare future Imagine St. Louis articles.
Please include your name, address and the name of the community in which you
live.

Send us a letter:

Imagine St. Louis

St. Louis Post-Dispatch

900 N. Tucker Boulevard

St. Louis, Mo. 63101

* Send us an e-mail:

imaginestl@postnet.com

* Send us a fax:

(314) 340-3050

* Call us at POSTline:

Call (314) 923-2323, tap 4075.

TALK ON THE AIR

Tim O'Neil and Mark Manelli will discuss the cultural contributions of
immigrants and refugees to the region on "St. Louis on the Air" on KWMU-FM. Call
in and offer your ideas on the subject.

WHERE: KWMU-FM (90.7).

WHEN: 11 a.m. Tuesday.

TO CALL IN: (314) 382-8255

TALK ONLINE TO OTHER CITIZENS

Cyberspace is a great place for connecting and contributing. Let us know what
you think about an issue by visiting Imagine St. Louis at
www.postnet.com/imagine.

LOAD-DATE: October 11, 1999

LANGUAGE: English

GRAPHIC: GRAPHIC (1) Graphic/Logo - Graphic Illustration / Logo - (KMOV Channel
4 logo)
 (1) Color Graphic/Logo - Graphic / Logo - (postnet.com)

                  Copyright 1999 St. Louis Post-Dispatch, Inc.


                              312 of 457 DOCUMENTS

                       St. Louis Post-Dispatch (Missouri)

                October 3, 1999, Sunday, FIVE STAR LIFT EDITION

IMMIGRANTS MADE ST. LOUIS WHAT IT IS TODAY;
GROWING BEYOND THE MELTING POT IN IMAGINE ST. LOUIS

SECTION: NEWS, Pg. A1

LENGTH: 155 words


Since the 18th century, when the French created a settlement here, through the
present day, when immigrants and refugees arrive to increase its population,
this region's essence is founded upon national, racial and ethnic diversity. So
unless you are an American Indian, immigration is your heritage.

Liberal philosophies imported by German immigrants helped keep Missouri in the
Union camp in the Civil War. Recent immigrations from Balkan and Southeast Asian
nations mean the stabilization of sections of the city that were sliding into
decay.

All immigrant groups, large and small, powerful or not, bring with them music
and art and recipes for good things to eat. They also make rich, indelible marks
on our culture and our lives.

That heritage, examined in today's Imagine St. Louis section by reporter Tim
O'Neil, is a kaleidoscope of ideas, and sights and sounds and smells. B1.

OUR COMICS POLL IN A&E

LOAD-DATE: October 4, 1999

LANGUAGE: English

GRAPHIC: GRAPHIC Graphic / Logo - Channel 4, KMOX logo - Immigration also is the
subject of "Imagine St. Louis," Channel 4 at 10 a.m. Sunday.

                  Copyright 1999 St. Louis Post-Dispatch, Inc.


                              313 of 457 DOCUMENTS

                       St. Louis Post-Dispatch (Missouri)

                October 3, 1999, Sunday, FIVE STAR LIFT EDITION

A DISTINCTIVE REGIONAL CULTURE WAS BUILT WITH INFLUENCES FROM FOREIGN PLACES

BYLINE: Tim O'Neil; Of The Post-Dispatch

SECTION: IMAGINE ST. LOUIS, Pg. B1

LENGTH: 3751 words


Each wave of immigrants carries with it a wealth of music, art, food and
festivals to America's shores. Each national contribution has invigorated the
region's mind and soul. How can we further promote our international character?
How can we come together for progress and unity in public life while maintaining
our separate heritages and celebrating our differences?

Let's start with the food.

Meals are a universal exercise of family and community. The variety of entrees
offered by restaurants and street festivals provide one of the best ways to see
and enjoy the blends of the people who have formed our region and continue to
shape it. As people come here from other countries, they bring their recipes.
And they share.

The area is filled with restaurants and taverns that speak of blended heritage.

The influences are deeper and more complicated than that. But first, how about a
toasted ravioli or a Polish sausage? Or a yum mama (Thai) or baba ghannouj
(Lebanese)?

Hands-down winners in the culinary-influence category are Italians, who make up
barely more than 2 percent of the metropolitan area's white population. It must
be the sauce, because people here love what Italians cook.

Tony's downtown, the area's only five-star restaurant, remains  Italian in its
core. Some of the restaurants on The Hill, St. Louis's last ethnic European
neighborhood, attract a coast-to-coast clientele. All of them have devoted fans.

A glance at the Yellow Pages of Greater St. Louis shows about 200 Italian
restaurants, not counting the pizza chains. There are more Chinese restaurants -
230 or so - but many of them are small carry-out places, an only a handful
attract well-dressed patrons from beyond their neighborhoods.

Descendants of German immigrants make up the largest single group in the St.
Louis area, but there's a relatively small number of authentic German
restaurants here. A bratwurst with kraut at a barbecue is the most common form
of dining Deutsch in public.

And the Irish, whose descendants constitute the area's second-largest group of
whites, were known more for the food that failed them than anything listed on a
menu today. But that truth takes nothing away from the growing popularity of
Irish pubs, the mother of which is McGurk's, south of downtown, where live music
imported form the home island mixes happily with boisterous crowds. And there
are those who swear that a pint of Guinness is sufficiently thick to qualify as
a tummy-warming meal.

Everybody came with a dish or two. Diners in the St. Louis area can choose from
a wide range of international fares, including Japanese, Ethiopian, Indian,
Hungarian and Swiss. The Bosnians, refugees who have lived here only a few
years, already have eight restaurants and cafes.

Clearly, we all eat more hamburgers than knishes. But if you want a knish or a
kookoo platter (Persian), they're here for the asking.

Obviously, we are more than just what we eat. A majority of us are ethnic blends
and live thoroughly American lives, with occasional homage to heritage for the
sake of merriment. Some people take things further, enrolling themselves or
their children in dance troupes or organizations that seek to preserve, through
living exercise, some of the ways of their forebears.

"Something we all share is a sense of the importance of holding onto our
cultural heritage," said Imani Mtendaji, who grew up in Glasgow Village and
helps run an African-Caribbean traditional dance troupe in St. Louis. "It can be
the glue that holds us together."

Mtendaji and her husband, Kunama Mtendaji, coordinate the Afi Ama dance troupe.
Afi Ama is among the more than 70 groups that will take part in the ninth annual
International Folkfest on Oct. 16-17 at the Greensfelder Recreation Complex in
Queeny Park. The International Institute of Metro St. Louis sponsors the event.

If there is a traditional news peg for this study of heritage, it's the
folkfest.

Where we came from

There is a lot of talk these days about the rise in immigration to the United
States. In St. Louis, there has been heavy press coverage of newcomers from the
war-torn Balkans, which is just the latest in a long list of sad places that
have propelled its sons and daughters here. Others came by easier choice. Either
way, it's an old story that goes back to the French colonials.

Pierre Laclede settled the village of St. Louis in 1764 on the high ground of
the west bank closest to the confluence of the two great rivers. His small band
of New Orleanians were joined by many of the French settlers of Cahokia, who
crossed the Mississippi when the Illinois side became British territory.

The same European treaty that gave Illinois to England also ceded the vast
Louisiana territory from France to Spain. But the new Spanish governor in New
Orleans let the French be French. Many of the French settlers in Cahokia, over
in British territory, helped Laclede populate his village.

St. Louis remained French into the early days of the 19th century. But the
United States bought Louisiana for $ 15 million in 1803. Soon, the Americans
were crossing the river.

Southern by extraction, they came here mainly by way of Kentucky and Tennessee.
St. Louis became an American town with old-line French families, at least by
frontier standards.

The Germans came in large numbers beginning in 1833. Many were inspired by the
writings of Gottfried Duden, a German who had lived near the Missouri River for
three years. His publication, "A Report on a Trip to the Western States of North
America," was a romantic account of life in the river valley west of St. Louis,
an area he compared with the Rhine River valley back home.

There had been some Irish since the early days of the village, and some of them
-- the O'Fallons, Mullanphys and Christys -- had risen to wealth and prominence
and married into the French families. The poor Irish began arriving with the
first great potato famine in 1845.

Soon there were enough Germans and Irish living in St. Louis to threaten the
supremacy of the "Americans." Anti-immigrant sentiment rose into occasional
riots against the newcomers, especially the poor, clannish Irish. By 1861, the
German influence was sufficient to ensure that St. Louis remained in the Union
camp, in spite of the efforts of Missouri's secessionist governor, Claiborne
Jackson.

Other European immigrants came after the Civil War -- German and Russian Jews,
Bohemians, Italians, Poles, Greeks.

The numbers

The most recent detailed accounting of ancestral heritage in the St. Louis area
is from the 1990 federal census. It's almost 10 years old, but the area has
grown only marginally in the past decade. The biggest changes in the ancestral
makeup have been compliments of immigration.

In 1990, the greater St. Louis area's population of about 2.5 million was 81
percent white, 17 percent black, 1 percent Asian and 1/5th of one percent
American Indian. Almost 60 percent of everyone queried listed single ancestry.
Another 35 percent listed "multiple ancestry." Most of the rest simply didn't
answer the question.

Of those who listed a single heritage, the numbers are as follows: 20 percent
German, 17 percent black, 5 percent Irish, 3 percent English, 2 percent Italian,
and 1 percent each of Polish, French and Scotch-Irish. Following behind are
people claiming single ancestry from Greece, Hungary, Lithuania, Russia and
Denmark, to name a few.

The 35 percent listing multiple ancestry totaled almost 845,000 people, and the
census report didn't try to break down the blends of European heritage that are
so common. The census didn't try to itemize the Irish-German mix that
constitutes the most common "mutt" in St. Louis.

The 1990 census reported only 1,589 people in the St. Louis area from the Balkan
states that do, or did, constitute Yugoslavia. By 1996, there were about 10,000
people from Bosnia alone, and most of them lived in the city.

The arrival of Vietnamese, Laotians, Ethiopians and others in the past two
decades has help change the look of parts of St. Louis. The line of ethnic
restaurants and shops, anchored by the busy Jay International Food Store at 3172
South Grand Boulevard, certainly has preserved and transformed the old
storefront shopping district south of Arsenal Street.

Despite the splash of newcomers and their foods and traditional dances, St.
Louis is much more native-born than it was one century ago. In 1900, 20 percent
of the city's 575,000 people had been born in another country. About 41 percent
were the children of foreign-born parents.

Of those 111,000 born in other countries, 53 percent were from Germany, 18
percent from Ireland, 4 percent were from Russia and almost 3 percent were from
Poland.

Each of those groups, the oldsters and the newcomers, has helped form the St.
Louis region and maintain some distinction. With apologies to the worthy groups
left out, here are some of the stories of 10 of them. We offer them
alphabetically to further reduce the chance for offense.

African-Americans

There were black slaves in the colonial days, but slaveowning never was
widespread in St. Louis. In 1850, when the census listed 77,860 residents in the
city, there were 2,636 slaves and 1,398 free blacks. All told, 5.2 percent of
St. Louisans were black. Because Missouri was a slave state into the Civil War
and had some large plantations along the Missouri River, the slave trade
persisted on the steps of what we now call the Old Courthouse.

By the turn of the century, there were 35,000 black St. Louisans, or 6 percent
of the population -- second only to Baltimore in percentage. Most of them lived
in the old Mill Creek valley, a black neighborhood since shortly before the
Civil War. Among its sons and daughters were civil-rights leader Roy Wilkins and
singer Josephine Baker.

The first big migration of blacks northward into St. Louis was during World War
I, followed by the huge migrations during and after World War II. From 1940 to
1960, the city's black population more than doubled, to 216,000. Many obituaries
of black St. Louisans still list birthplaces in Mississippi and Arkansas.

Blacks make up almost one-fifth of the metropolitan area and about half of the
city. Their influences on music alone could fill the page -- Scott J oplin's
early days and Chuck Berry and Tina Turner, both from St. Louis, come to mind.
There's the Missouri Black Expo every August and, the big daddy of celebrations,
the long and long-running Annie Malone May Day Parade.

Bosnians

About 15,000 to 20,000 Bosnians, most of them refugees from the civil wars in
their homeland earlier in this decade, live in the St. Louis area. Many are on
the city's south side, where they have opened stores, restaurants and cafes.
There are eight Bosnian establishments just along Gravois Avenue near the Bevo
Mill. The Bosnians have formed bands that play primarily for their own
entertainment at places such as Bosna Gold, 4640 Gravois, the first Bosnian
restaurant here. Friday nights hop.

At the Europa Market, 5005 Gravois, patrons can buy newspapers and magazines
from the home country and rent videos in their native tongue. The hot CDs from
Bosnia are there, too.

Bosnians have bought homes on the south side and filled apartment buildi ngs
near the Bevo that had been in decline. Area banks have hired Bosnians to serve
as interpreters and loan officers for a small but vibrant ethnic economy that
has stabilized part of the city.

There aren't any Bosnian festivals organized with a wider audience in mind, at
least not yet. There is early talk about organizing a community center. And
twice a year, touring Bosnian musical groups have concerts in St. Louis. The
next will be on Oct. 23.

Ethiopians

About 700 Ethiopians call St. Louis home, and many of them live in Olivette.
They began moving here as refugees in the early 1980s to escape the civil wars
and droughts in their east African land. Many of them work as cabdrivers and in
the local casinos and hotels.

There are two Ethiopian restaurants, the Red Sea and the Addis, within two
blocks of each other on Delmar Boulevard in the University City Loop. They have
a Coptic Orthodox Christian church, St. Gabriel's, at 515 Pendleton Avenue.

There are some Ethiopian art works and artifacts at the Addis. Families
celebrate the Ethiopian New Year in September, Christmas and many of the
American holidays at the church.

Zed Minale, a caseworker at the Ethiopian Community Association in St. Louis,
said she can trace several hair-braiding styles that are popular among black
women in St. Louis to Ethiopian techniques.

Germans

The German influence on St. Louis is as solid as the city's ruddy red brick.
German laborers and artisans had a great fondness for the sturdy material, and
it still shows in our older neighborhoods.

The first German immigrants, the Rhineland Catholics and the Saxony Lutherans,
were joined in the late 1840s by people who ended up on the losing side of the
rebellions of 1848. Many of the German immigrants were well educated. They
certainly were well organized. Quickly, their Turner gymnastic societies,
singing clubs, churches and beer halls became vibrant social centers.

Many of them first settled in neighborhoods just south of Chouteau Avenue. That
was the beginning of the heavily German South Side.

Today, there are two active Turner societies, the Concordia Turners in south St.
Louis and Schiller Turners in Lemay. German bands play at many neighborhood
festivals and at the annual Strassenfest downtown, the area's biggest German
street party. The German-American Heritage Society sponsors exchange programs
for students.

"People are interested in where they came from," said George L. Stemmler Jr.,
director of the Heritage Society. "It tells us about ourselves, and sometimes
explains why we believe what we do."

Hispanics

The first large-scale arrivals of Mexicans came in the series of rebellions and
coups that began in 1910. Some Mexican immigrants lived in boxcars along the
railyards just south of downtown. As they moved to more permanent addresses,
they tended to scatter throughout the city. But the statue of Our Lady of
Guadalupe at St. Mary of Victories Catholic Church, near the old railyards,
attests to their presence.

Immigrants from other central and south American countries came mainly after
World War II. By far, Mexicans make up the largest part of the area's roughly
30,000 people of Hispanic descent.

Fairmont City, south of Granite City, is home to the largest single community of
Hispanics. About 70 percent of the town's 2,200 residents are of Mexican
heritage. They began settling there after World War II to work at the old
American Zinc works in Fairmont City. Social activities revolve around Holy
Family parish there.

In Granite City, the Mexican Honorary Commission, a social club, has built a new
clubhouse.

Other signs of Hispanic life in St. Louis are on the rise. There are several
Mexican shops and restaurants along Cherokee Street in south St. Louis. Three
Catholic parishes -- St. Cecilia's and St. Francis of DeSales on the south side
and Our Lady of Guadalupe in Cool Valley -- celebrate Masses in Spanish every
Sunday.

In recent years, area Hispanics have organized twice-annual Hispanic festivals
and a Cinco de Mayo Festival on Cherokee, now in its second year.

Indians

Indians, many from the state of Gujarat in southwestern India, began moving to
St. Louis in large groups in the 1960s. Arrivals have increased in the past 10
years, and the Indian population in the St. Louis area now stands at about 4,000
people. Many are in medicine, and many others own businesses, from neighborhood
liquor stores to large markets. There are five authentic Indian restaurants.

Two big local companies are Seema Enterprises and Shriji Enterprises, both of
which run travel agencies and stores that offer Indian foods, books and
entertainment.

Indians worship at The Hindu Temple of St. Louis, 725 Weidman Road across from
Queeny Park. Next door is their Mahatma Gandhi Center, where they occasionally
have cultural programs reaching out to a general audience.

Ashwin Patel, owner of Seema Enterprises and an officer of the India Association
of St. Louis, said Indians here have four or five traditional dance groups that
perform at local festivals. Among them is the Diwali, or festival of light, held
in November.

Irish

The Irish are easy to spot, and we're not just talking green.

The first big waves of Irish, most of them ragtag poor, crowded into the older
neighborhoods along the Mississippi River in the years before the Civil War.
They worked for steamboat companies and railroads and, slowly but surely, got
into politics and city government, most notably in the police department. Their
big neighborhood, the old Kerry Patch just northwest of downtown, got its name
from the rush of immigrants from County Kerry.

They built their Catholic churches and schools and became solidly part of St.
Louis' middle class.

Their descendants put on one of the biggest, and surely the longest, street
festival in St. Louis -- the annual St. Patrick's Day parade downtown, on the
Saturday before the saint's feast. The collection of entries, from Irish dancers
to Shriners' motorcyclists and a famous German beer wagon, go on for hours and
attest to the Americanized flavor of the parade.

The Ancient Order of Hibernians holds its own parade down Tamm Avenue in Dogtown
every March. The Hibernians claim their parade is more authentic, although
matching sweat shirts and an Irish last name will qualify a clan for marching.

Hibernian parties and Irish dancing are big in St. Louis. There are four major
local schools of dance, including St. Louis Irish Arts, run by Irish native
Helen Gannon. The work is strenuous -- the 100 students learn dance and music
for four hours every week. During March, they'll dance for audiences almost
nightly, Gannon said.

Italians

Near the end of the 19th century, southern Italians and Sicilians formed the old
Little Italy neighborhood north of downtown and worked the produce business.
Lomards and other northern Italians settled The Hill on the high south bank of
the River Des Peres. The worked downhill at the brick and terra cotta works.

Little Italy faded, but The Hill has thrived as an Italian neighborhood and a
favorite destination for people who want a fine formal meal or a loaf of
Amighetti's french bread. The bronze statue of an immigrant family in front of
St. Ambrose Catholic Church probably is the best-known symbol of immigration in
St. Louis. South on Marconi Avenue is the new location of the Italia America
Bocce Club.

The annual Columbus Day parade will step off at noon on Oct. 10 and wind through
The Hill. The parade has been held most years since a small band of Italian
immigrants organized the first one in 1867.

With their neighborhood and restaurants and fireplugs painted in the Italian
tricolor of green, red and white, St. Louisans of Italian heritage have been
proudly visible beyond their numbers. What they haven't had for a while was a
traditional dance troupe for the local festivals.

Tony and Marisa Gandolfo solved that four years ago by forming the Gruppo
Focloristico Siciliano. The group's dancers and musicians practice in the
Gandolfo's basement in south St. Louis County. They make the bright traditional
costumes at their business Fifth Avenue Fashions on The Hill.

"We keep alive the memory of what we left behind," said Tony Gandolfo, who was
born in Sicily.

Japanese

The first time large numbers of people of Japanese descent moved into St. Louis
was toward the end of World War II, when they left the internment camps in
California. Today, there are about 3,000 St. Louisans of Japanese birth or
heritage. Many of them work as teachers, engineers, scientists and medical
professionals.

There are about 10 Japanese restaurants in the St. Louis area. Diners are most
likely to hear Japanese being spoken at Seki's, 6335 Delmar, and at Sansui, 4955
West Pine Boulevard.

Despite their small numbers, Japanese-Americans in St. Louis are host to one of
the area's most well-attended ethnic events, the annual Japanese Festival over
the Labor Day weekend at the Missouri Botanical Garden. It began as a small
festival for children in 1975 and moved to the Botanical Garden in the following
year.

Masaharu Takano, a native of Okinawa who has lived in St. Louis since 1967, said
he works at the festival because he wants Americans to better understand the
Japanese culture. Takano, 64, demonstrates origami, a Japanese paper-folding
art, at many local events. His wife, Hiroko Takano, has taught Japanese and
Asian cooking.

"American culture is enriched by all of the cultures coming from outside," he
said.

Vietnamese

There are several houses of worship in St. Louis for Vietnamese families.
Catholics have adopted the St. Thomas of Aquin parish at 3949 Iowa Street in
south St. Louis. Buddhists have the Vien-Minh Temple at 5232 Bulwer Street just
east of Bellefontaine Cemetery. Both reflect the growing stability of the area's
Vietnamese community, roughly 15,000 strong.

Almost all of them -- Buddhist, Catholic, Lutheran, other -- came here as
refugees from the fall of the former South Vietnam in 1975. The Buddhists
founded their temple in a converted two-story house. No monk is assigned to the
temple, but members are trying to attract one.

For years, the Catholics celebrated Mass in their native language at St. Pius V
Church, 3310 South Grand, a parish that operates a refugee ministry. Two years
ago, the 200-family congregation petitioned the St. Louis Archdiocese for a
church of its own. The archdiocese responded with St. Thomas, five blocks east
of Marquette Park. The parish, down to about 75 households, had lost many of its
parishioners to the suburbs. St. Thomas had closed its grade school, now the
Taproots School of Art, in 1989.

St. Thomas holds some Masses in English and others in Vietnamese. It is host to
a big Chinese New Year celebration each year, as does the Vietnamese Association
of Missouri.

"For our young people, we want them to know about Vietnam, we want them to speak
the language," said Kim Tran, 58, of the association. "We want them to be able
to talk to the older people. We want them to be polite and show respect."

LOAD-DATE: October 3, 1999

LANGUAGE: English

GRAPHIC: PHOTO PHOTO by CHRIS LEE / POST-DISPATCH - Ireland-born Johnny McAteer
(lower right) has tended bar at McGurks in St. Louis since immigrating from
Ireland nearly seven years ago. Many of his customers are also Irish immigrants
attracted to the establishment's Irish atmosphere -- which includes musical
performers brought in from Ireland for long engagements.

                  Copyright 1999 St. Louis Post-Dispatch, Inc.


                              314 of 457 DOCUMENTS

                       St. Louis Post-Dispatch (Missouri)

                October 5, 1999, Tuesday, FIVE STAR LIFT EDITION

INDIAN IMMIGRANTS HAVE WON ACCEPTANCE IN U.S. THROUGH AFFLUENCE, OFFICIAL SAYS;
MANY ARRIVE HERE WITH LOTS OF SKILLS AND QUICKLY OBTAIN HIGH-PAYING JOBS

BYLINE: Harry Levins; Post-Dispatch Senior Writer

SECTION: NEWS, Pg. A8

LENGTH: 382 words


India's consul general for the Midwestern United States says affluence has
largely spared Indian immigrants from racism in America.

"Indians have generally come to the United States in high-skill categories,"
said the consul general, J.L. Sharma, who covers a nine-state region from his
office in Chicago.

Many Indian immigrants work as doctors or engineers, Sharma said in an interview
in St. Louis on Monday. "And they interact with the more enlightened part of
American society," he said.

Despite problems here and there, Sharma said, the immigrants' high-paying jobs -
and the higher status that goes with those jobs - has meant a smoother path to
acceptance.

Sharma was in St. Louis to attend a series of events over the weekend at the
Mahatma Gandhi Center at 727 Weidman Road in west St. Louis County. The center
serves as a cultural hub for the region's Indian-Americans, who number almost
5,000.

"In the last week alone, we had 76 arrive," said Deepak K. Vyas, president of
the India Association of St. Louis. He accompanied Sharma to Monday's interview.

Sharma said some common threads between India and the United States helped
immigrants to fit in when they got to America.

"India is the world's largest democracy," he said. "We represent secul ar,
liberal, pluralistic and diverse values. You're the world's second-largest
secular, liberal, pluralistic and diverse society."

And Sharma said that while the United States has been taking in immigrants and
refugees for two centuries, India has been doing so for more than two millennia.

"India has the highest diversity in the world," he said. "Indians who emigrate
to the United States can adapt quickly to another diverse society."

In fact, Sharma said, Indian-Americans get along reasonably well with
Pakistani-Americans, despite the tension between the neighboring nations. "There
are always some fanatics," Sharma said. "But by and large, the two groups get
along well here - especially among the well-educated classes."

Although this area's population of Indian immigrants is growing steadily, St.
Louis is hardly a hotbed of Indians. Sharma said most of the 1.3 million
Indian-Americans live in three centers - the New York-New Jersey-Connecticut
area, the Chicago area and California.

LOAD-DATE: October 6, 1999

LANGUAGE: English

                  Copyright 1999 St. Louis Post-Dispatch, Inc.


                              315 of 457 DOCUMENTS

                       St. Louis Post-Dispatch (Missouri)

                October 15, 1999, Friday, FIVE STAR LIFT EDITION

ASIAN IMMIGRANTS FARE BEST FINANCIALLY IN U.S., REPORT SAYS

BYLINE: The Associated Press

SECTION: NEWS, Pg. A9

LENGTH: 183 words


Asian immigrants are the best-off financially of all foreign-born Americans,
with median incomes higher than native-born Americans, the Census Bureau says.

For all households with a foreign-born householder, the median in 1997 was $
30,000, compared with $ 36,100 for households with a native householder, the
agency said in a report released today. For Asian-Americans, the median
household income - meaning half the households earned more and half less - was $
42,900.

By comparison, householders from Europe had a median income of $ 31,300, while
it was $ 24,100 where they were from Latin America, the report says.

"The foreign-born population of the United States at the end of the 20th century
cannot be neatly categorized, but we do see links between region of birth and
measures of social and economic well-being," said A. Dianne Schmidley, co-author
with Campbell Gibson of "Profile of the Foreign-Born Population of the United
States: 1997."

The poverty rate was 21.0 percent for the foreign-born population in 1996,
compared with 12.9 percent for the native population.

LOAD-DATE: October 15, 1999

LANGUAGE: English

                  Copyright 1999 St. Louis Post-Dispatch, Inc.


                              316 of 457 DOCUMENTS

                       St. Louis Post-Dispatch (Missouri)

               October 21, 1999, Thursday, FIVE STAR LIFT EDITION

"THE IMMIGRANT" BLENDS STORY, DIALOGUE, CHARACTERS WITH STYLE

BYLINE: Gerry Kowarsky; Special To The Post-Dispatch

SECTION: SOUTH POST, Pg. 2

LENGTH: 436 words


* New Jewish Theatre mounts sensitive, effective production that provokes a rich
sense of time and place

Are accurate accents important in a theatrical production? For the New Jewish
Theatre's rewarding production of Mark Harelik's play, "The Immigrant," the
answer is yes and no.

For the title character and his wife, the accents are essential. When he first
appears, Haskell Harelik is a recent Jewish immigrant from Russia whose native
language is Yiddish.

The time is 1909, and the place is Hamilton, Texas, population 1,200. Haskell's
English appears to be limited to the one phrase he needs to scrape out a living
as an itinerant peddler, "Bananas, penny apiece."

At the start of the play, being foreign is the essential quality of the
hard-pressed but determined immigrant, and Devin Baker's depiction is right on
target.

Baker's accent is convincing, even when his lines are almost entirely in
Yiddish.

His distinctive posture is equally persuasive.

Like many immigrants of his generation, Haskell came to this country before his
wife and saved religiously to bring her over as quickly as possible.

Judy Guzzy portrays Leah Harelik with an accent and a demeanor that are as just
as believable as Baker's.

The scene in which Leah tries to stave off bad luck is particularly enjoyable
because Guzzy performs the superstitious ritual with conviction rather than
parody.

Being the only Jews in their community is more daunting to Leah than Haskell.

Their conflict over this issue has genuine resonance in this production.

Haskell's success in his new country is due, in large part, to the help of
Milton and Ima Perry.

Resisting the natural tendency to shrink from a stranger, they give Haskell
shelter when he barely has the words to ask for it.

This act of kindness leads to a 30-year relationship that does not always take
the expected turns.

As Milton and Ima, Jack Hake and Jan Meyer do not speak like Texans, but the
absence of accents takes nothing away from excellent performances that are
filled with warmth and humanity (and occasional prickliness, in Hake's case).

In fact, another set of distinctive regional speech patterns might well diminish
the impact of the immigrants' accents.

Carolyne Hood's direction draws unusual cohesiveness from the cast of four.

The designs are by MT Schmidt (set), Elizabeth Krausnick (costumes) and LD
Lawson (lighting).

"The Immigrant" will continue at 7:30 tonight and Sunday, 8 p.m. Saturday and 2
p.m. Sunday in the Sarah and Abraham Wolfson Studio Theatre of the Jewish
Community Center, 2 Millstone Campus Drive.

LOAD-DATE: October 21, 1999

LANGUAGE: English

                  Copyright 1999 St. Louis Post-Dispatch, Inc.


                              317 of 457 DOCUMENTS

                       St. Louis Post-Dispatch (Missouri)

               October 23, 1999, Saturday, FIVE STAR LIFT EDITION

BATTLING INTERNATIONAL PAPERWORK, KING IS EXPECTED TO TAKE THE ICE

BYLINE: Tom Wheatley; Of The Post-Dispatch

SECTION: SPORTS, Pg. 14

LENGTH: 661 words


Derek King missed six of Toronto's first nine games by coach's decision.

He missed his first game with the Blues on Thursday by decision of the U.S.
Immigration and Naturalization Service in New York.

He made it to practice Friday at Chesterfield with his international status in
limbo.

The Blues obtained King on Wednesday from the Maple Leafs. Unlike Toronto coach
Pat Quinn, Blues coach Joel Quenneville wanted to put the left winger right to
work.

But King's work visa was still wrapped in red tape Thursday for his new team's
3-2 overtime victory over Edmonton. He finally got it untangled late Friday and
is expected to play here tonight against the New Jersey Devils.

To make room for King on the 23-man roster, the Blues placed defenseman Rudy
Poeschek on waivers. Teams can put in a claim until noon Tuesday.

King's status with immigration was as puzzling as his treatment by the Leafs. He
is Canadian by birth 32 years ago in Hamilton, Ontario. "But my wife is
American," he said. "We live in Long Island in the summer. I have a Social
Security number. And I pay plenty enough taxes here."

Despite all of that, King sat in the Toronto airport from 9 a.m. to 2 p.m.
Thursday before being allowed to board a plane. Was the tip-off for customs
officials that he was not coming just to see the Gateway Arch?

"Well, I show up at the airport with all my equipment, sticks and stuff," King
said, laughing. "People are coming up and asking for my autograph and saying,
'Good luck in St. Louis.' It was pretty obvious that I was coming to work."

King had a conspiracy theory for the snafu: "Maybe the immigration guys picked
me in their hockey pool, and they're sour. I've got no points in three games."

That hockey inactivity was also a mystery - until Thursday when the Leafs
acquired Dmitri Khristich from Boston.

King scored 45 goals for Toronto the past two years. Last season, he ranked
fourth on the team in goals (24), assists (28) and points (52).

He is a relative bargain at $ 1.6 million. That's just $ 300,000 over the
National Hockey League average and about $ 1 million less than Khristich, 30,
will average over four years.

King is 6 feet, 205 pounds and shoots left. He was drafted 13th overall by the
New York Islanders in 1985.

Playing alongside future Blues center Pierre Turgeon, he had seasons of 40, 38
and 30 goals on the Island. King spent 10 years there, also teaming with future
Blues Jeff Finley, Marc Bergevin and Terry Yake. Then King moved to Hartford in
1997 and on to Toronto the next season.

Some players bounce between four teams in three years because they are too hot
to handle. Not King.

Listen to Toronto center Steve Sullivan, who was waived to make room for
Khristich. He told the Toronto Star: "He is probably one of the best teammates I
have had. He's a great guy, and a good hockey player, and he really puts
something special into the dressing room. It's going to be missed here, for
sure."

Finley seconded that. He also pointed out that King and Turgeon had something
special as Islander linemates.

"They played great together," said Finley, who turned a Turgeon feed into the
overtime winner against Edmonton. "Pierre's such a great passer. And Derek's
such a great finisher."

King's touch did not rust in Toronto.

"I don't think he'd be available if they weren't going to get Khristich," Blues
pro scout Bobby Plager said. "I was up in Detroit and Kalamazoo when we made the
trade, and all the other scouts thought it was a heck of a deal. Where are you
going to get a guy like that - without giving up a player or better draft
choice?"

The Blues sent defenseman Tyler Harleton, an average minor-leaguer, to Toronto
and exchanged eighth-round draft picks.

King will wear No. 12 here. His No. 27 from the Island belongs to Yake. His No.
7 from Toronto belongs to injured defenseman Rico Persson.

"That's OK," King said. "I'll get off the sevens for awhile."

LOAD-DATE: October 23, 1999

LANGUAGE: English

GRAPHIC: PHOTO THE ASSOCIATED PRESS Photo - Derek King (left), shown here with
Toronto, should be able to play tonight for the Blues.

                  Copyright 1999 St. Louis Post-Dispatch, Inc.


                              318 of 457 DOCUMENTS

                       St. Louis Post-Dispatch (Missouri)

                October 24, 1999, Sunday, FIVE STAR LIFT EDITION

FROM FINE DINING TO DRIVE-INS, ST. LOUIS HAS CATERED TO EVERY PALATE

BYLINE: Patricia Corrigan; Post-Dispatch Restaurant Critic

SECTION: NEWS, Pg. M11

LENGTH: 823 words



FOOD

* Numerous ethnic cuisines gained popularity here in the 1980s and '90s.  The
metro area will enter the millennium with about 1,600 restaurants.

At the turn of the last century, formal restaurants and oyster houses dotted the
nation. Here in St. Louis, diners flocked to the now-defunct Tony Faust's at
Broadway and Elm Street, where you would expect to pay 25 cents for a half-dozen
oysters on the half-shell, 60 cents for a whole lobster and 50 cents for roast
beef.

Just a few years later, soda fountains and other more informal eateries sprung
up, perhaps made popular by the many dining carts and booths at the 1904 St.
Louis World's Fair. Fairgoers snacked on hamburger sandwiches sold by German
immigrants, peanut butter (sold as health food for the elderly), puffed rice in
its earliest incarnation as a popcornlike treat, and ice cream served in cones
made from crispy wafers cooked up by Ernest H amwi, a Syrian immigrant.

That's not to say that there wasn't fancy food at the fair. Tony Faust teamed up
with August Luchow of New York City to operate the Tyrolean Alps Restaurant,
which seated 2,500 customers. Caviar or soft-shelled crabs cost 75 cents; a
filet mignon went for $ 1.25. The International Restaurant, another posh eatery,
seated 2,200 people and featured a European orchestra.

Prohibition, which stretched from 1920 to 1933, apparently caused more interest
than ever in alcoholic beverages, as some 70 popular cocktails were developed at
speakeasies during the era. When Prohibition ended, many breweries, including
Anheuser-Busch, opened bars that sold sandwiches. Kemoll's, then a one-room
confectionery, also sold sandwiches, as did Lombardo's, which started as a fruit
stand.

During the Depression, many people had little money and chose to entertain
modestly at home rather than dine out. However, the opening of Route 66 saw the
development of chain restaurants along the highway, ready to feed families on
the go.

By the 1940s, fine restaurants began to open in cities again, as did a plethora
of neighborhood places. In St. Louis, diners could get good, hearty food at
lunch counters in bus stations, in cafeterias (such as the Salad Bowl), in hotel
coffee shops and in neighborhood bars. Department stores opened lunch counters
as well as formal dining rooms, where as many as 45 servers were employed. Also,
numerous family-owned restaurants lined the streets, such as the now-defunct
Rose's and The New Yorker.

A decade later, that trend continued. Restaurants owned by immigrants from
Italy, Greece, Germany and Asia were tucked in among other diners, grills and
sandwich shops here, and almost every eatery served fresh-roasted turkey, roast
beef, ham, stews and mashed potatoes and gravy.

Drive-in restaurants, such as the Goody-Goody Drive In, attracted people in a
hurry, and doughnut shops first came into their own. Also, Don Kuehl and Bill
Wyatt opened the first McDonald's here in 1958. The f ranchise, purchased for $
2,500, was in Crestwood. (It's still there, but in an all-new building.)

Flaming desserts were popular in the 1960s, and nobody did cherries jubilee
better than the now-defunct Cyrano's, a surprisingly romantic spot located in a
basement in Clayton. Because of the increase in jet travel, restaurant owners
here were able to bring in what passes for "fresh" seafood in the Midwest.

The '60s also saw the debut of the Mobil Travel Guides, which rated restaurants
in all 50 states. And in 1963, Craig Claiborne started writing weekly restaurant
reviews in The New York Times.

Health food restaurants and mom-and-pop Chinese restaurants flourished in the
1970s, which also ushered in a new level of sophistication and elegance here,
most notably at Anthony's, Balaban's and the Jefferson Avenue Boarding House.
Alas, only Balaban's, in the Central West End, remains in business today.

Duff's in the Central West End and Blueberry Hill in University City also
debuted in the 1970s, and O'Connell's moved from a washed-up Gaslight Square to
its current location at Kingshighway and Shaw Boulevard.

California cuisine swept the nation in the 1980s, and that sparked an interest
in regional cuisines everywhere. Ethnic restaurants also enjoyed a surge of
popularity here. Diners went out for French, Mexican, Japanese, Hungarian,
Indian and Middle Eastern fare.

The '90s saw an increase in ethnic eateries in this region, and the mix now
includes Thai, Vietnamese, Bosnian and even Somalian. Steakhouses and Mexican
restaurants have enjoyed renewed popularity here in this decade, and diners have
shown considerable interest in Mediterranean and Pacific Rim cooking.

As we head into the new millennium, there are about 1,600 restaurants in the St.
Louis metropolitan area, and some 70 percent of them are independently owned.

And should you order half a dozen high-quality oysters on the half-shell, you'd
likely pay about $ 9.95.

LOAD-DATE: October 24, 1999

LANGUAGE: English

GRAPHIC: PHOTO (1) PHOTO by MISSOURI HISTORICAL SOCIETY - A woman and her
children enjoy ice cream cones at the 1904 World's Fair.
 (2) PHOTO by FILE PHOTO - Diners flocked to the now-defunct Tony Faust's at
Broadway and Elm Street early in the century.

                  Copyright 1999 St. Louis Post-Dispatch, Inc.


                              319 of 457 DOCUMENTS

                       St. Louis Post-Dispatch (Missouri)

               November 21, 1999, Sunday, FIVE STAR LIFT EDITION

MAGAZINE FOR BALKAN IMMIGRANTS MAKES A SPLASH

BYLINE: Jerry Berger

SECTION: NEWS, Pg. A2

LENGTH: 1567 words


BALKAN TALKING: St. Louis' burgeoning population of immigrants has already
invigorated the St. Louis Public Schools soccer program and fueled a
mini-explosion of ethnic restaurants serving up Balkan delicacies. Now, Plima
Magazin, a bimonthly foreign language magazine focusing on Bosnian and Croatian
interests in St. Louis, has won a listing in the Drohlich's metro media guide.

DUST BUNNIES: Buried in the multi-paged proposed budget of the new privately run
downtown St. Louis taxing district is an item sure to tickle the fancy of my
colleague Bill McClellan, who is attempting to insulate his attic with unused
city planning documents. Three-quarters of the way down the column of Exhibit D
is a line-item for a new "stakeholder engagement" plan.

KLING RAP: Stephen Kling, attorney for several subdivisions and individual
neighbors of a large undeveloped site adjacent to BJC West in Creve Coeur, has
asked the C.C. City Council to investigate the actions of Susan Murphy, the
former chairman of its planning and zoning commission, and others regarding
development and passage of a land-use plan for the site. The plan itself became
the centerpiece of more than three years of litigation by its owner. Calling the
actions "disturbing," Kling has forwarded an extensively annotated 12-page
letter based on more than 40 depositions to City Council members detailing
"numerous private phone conversations and meetings" between Murphy and property
owners that he claims had the effect of shutting out and manipulating citizen
participation in planning for the West Olive area.

COMINGS 'N' GOINGS: Charlene Bry, founder and publisher of the Ladue News, and
Karen Carroll, veep and GM of KMOX Radio, will receive the Press Club of
Metropolitan St. Louis' "Media Persons of the Year" award on March 7 in the
Khorassan Room at the Chase Park Plaza Hotel. Emcee will be Charles Brennan, and
one of the roasters will be Bob Costas. For tix, call 382-5952, ext. 234 ...

Former Talent Plus staffer Pam Capps has joined the Medve Group, where she is
tubthumping Jake Medve's Lambert Field parking lot, Park Express ...

HONORABLE MENTIONS: Pals of Lynn Thompson, an attorney at Herzog, Crebs and Ken
Goessling of GNG properties celebrated their nupts at St. Francis Xavier last
week with a pouring at the posh St. Louis Club. His parents are Ken Goessling
Sr. of Florida and Patti Dear of Ladue. Hers are redoubtable SBC exec Joe and
Lana Thompson ...

Ziercher & Hocher barrister M. DeAnn Outlaw is ringed to St. Luke's ER Dr. Bill
Gueck ...

Optometrist Laura Barthel, former Miss Teen Missouri, and Dr. Martin Citardi,
assistant prof of ear-nose-throat surgery at SLU Hospital, are engaged ...

Berkeley Police Capt. Jim McMullin began drawing his pension Friday before a
farewell at the department offices ...

Quietly celebrating at the star table at Tony's were investor Donn Lipton, Randy
Weissman, prez of Storage Banc, and Chuck Barbo, chairman of the board of
Shurgard - the huge international self-storage real estate investment trust. The
occasion was Lipton's $ 13 million acquisition of Shurgard's three self-storage
facilities in St. Louis. Storage Banc/Mobile Vault now has eight facilities and
is on target to become the dominant player here ...

Has Fox Television's dominance of the professional sports scene brainwashed pro
players? Some Fox Channel 2 news execs are yukking it up a bit at the expense of
rival KPLR-TV (Channel 11). When St. Louis Rams' Torry Holt filled in on Channel
11's newscast Thursday night, he thanked his co-anchors, on-air and live, for
"letting me come here and be on Channel 2" ...

More than 50 guests showed up at Geoff Courtnall's retirement party at
Portabella on Thursday after the Blues' victory over the Florida Panthers. Tom
Zoog and Mark Del Pietro supervised the preparation of grilled pork chops and
chicken ravioli ...

And, over at David Slay's Restaurant at the Seven Gables Inn, Tom Eagleton was
host to dinner in one dining room, while Gene McNary held forth in another. At
the same time, Sen. John Ashcroft dined with aides in another room. And, in Pete
Rothschild's roost, the epicenter of his clan gathered in his honor, including
Carolyn Dames, Bob Graham, Leigh Leonard, Larry Cherry, Maria Heaman, Carrie
Human, Deborah Fenton, Kenny Battoe, Patti Accardi, Tara Ricci, Rick Fox and
Burt Garland ...

Michael J. Hackett's Hackett Security has landed a SAMMY from Security Sales
magazine for "outstanding design quality and impressive consistency of use" in
marketing.

A STAR IS BORN: In a region which has traditionally ignored the architecture of
dining, Harriet Cella Marshall's Truffles on Clayton Road is a spectacular
exception. With input by Harriet and her father, Charles J. Cella, St. Louis
expatriate Charles Kerr of Chicago's Newton & Kerr has created a masterpiece
highlighted by: a bar reminiscent of an early English pub; several dining rooms
reflecting the "go-go 1920s"; a ceiling reproduced from a historic restaurant in
France; wood trim made of East African white mahogany; and a restroom with a
1917 "receptacle" from the Cella family's original American Theatre. During a
recent dinner preview at which Truffles' signature dish, beef rib chops, were
prepared by exec chef Sandro Bozzato of Venice, Italy, toasts abounded,
including one from Kerr, who called the restaurant "a dream come true for
Harriet." (Harriet is a Culinary Institute grad and for the last 10 years had a
restaurant atop her wish list). Others on hand were Harriet's husband, Doug
Marshall, GM Alain Rochelemagne - who previously toiled for renowned chef Paul
Bricuse and Jean Banchet of Le Francais in Wheeling, Ill. - and maitre d' Carlos
Pereira, who seated the guests between a flurry of phone reservations for New
Year's Eve seatings (with live entertainment). Truffles opens Monday.

WITH THE POLS: After 27 years in the Missouri Legislature, well-respected state
Sen. Walt Mueller, R-Kirkwood, is calling it a career. In a letter sent to key
supporters this week, Mueller said he's looking to life after politics. Early
contenders to replace Mueller in the heavily Republican 15th Senate District
include state Rep. Emmy McClelland of Webster Groves and state Rep. Michael
Gibbons of Kirkwood ...

SELF IMPROVEMENT: With no plan in place for the use of the tax dollars generated
by the several new downtown Community Improvement Districts, several of the
central business district's largest property owners are plotting a strategy to
challenge creation of the CIDs in court.

St. Louis County Councilman Jeff Wagener may be looking for some help. Top aide
Julie Murphy has signed on to former Sen. Bill Bradley's presidential campaign
...

St. Louis mayoral aide Joe Palm has a distasteful new duty. Palm is running a
one-person investigation team in City Hall parking lots tracking down the owners
of automobiles whose bumper stickers and window signs support candidates other
than Mayor Clarence Harmon. Once Palm ascertains the owner's identity and
office, a city marshal is dispatched to convince the owner to remove the
offending sign ...

Officials at TCI/AT&T cable system are taking no chances that city residents
will get a chance to see any television ads in support of a new city ordinance
signed by St. Louis Mayor Harmon and Aldermanic prez Francis Slay. Cable
officials have informed Missourians for Open Internet Access, who produced the
30-second spots, that no time to run the ads will be sold to them, says Open
Access exec director Carolyn Seward. When the law becomes effective in three
weeks, it will require the city's next cable franchisee to provide
nondiscriminatory access to the Internet ...

And, styling themselves as electoral bellwethers in the tradition of
first-in-the-nation primary state New Hampshire, members of Mayor Harmon's home
ward political organization have delivered the city's first full set of
endorsements in next year's state and federal elections. The 6th Ward Democratic
organization voted this week to endorse the candidacies of Al Gore, Mel
Carnahan, Dick Gephardt, Bob Holden, Lacy Clay, Jay Nixon, Joe Maxwell, Brian
May and Maida Coleman. The group also voted to endorse unanimously the state
representative candidacy of its chairman, Russ Carnahan. Filing for state
offices will not even begin until February.

FAREWELL TO THEE: Photographer Scott C. Dine will say goodbye to the
Post-Dispatch newsroom Tuesday - 35 years to the day after he first said hello.
His career as a news photographer began as a high school sophomore in Amarillo,
Texas. "A good news photographer has his strong points, of course," Dine said.
"But you'd better be able to shoot anything that comes down the pike." After a
few years in college, Dine joined the old United Press in Dallas. Then after a
stint in the Army, he worked for the Richmo nd (Va.) Times-Dispatch, the Denver
Post and Houston Chronicle. Dine moved to the Post-Dispatch, which sent him on
assignments in Europe and Vietnam and gave him such high-profile jobs as
covering the World Series. Dine has held such office posts as photo editor and
interim chief photographer. He lives in University City with his wife of 34
years, the former Anne Hamilton. They have two children - Brooke Dine, who works
in Washington on the House of Representatives Web page, and Joshua Dine, a drama
student in New York ...

LOAD-DATE: November 21, 1999

LANGUAGE: English

GRAPHIC: PHOTO (1) Photo - Having fun at Truffles: (from left) Alain
Rochelemagne, Doug Marshall, his wife - and owner of Truffles - Harriet Cella
Marshall, chef Sandro Bozzato, Charles Cella and Charles Kerr.
 (2) Photo headshots - (Charlene) Bry, (Karen) Carroll, (Pam) Capps, (Scott)
Dine

TYPE: Jerry Berger Column

                  Copyright 1999 St. Louis Post-Dispatch, Inc.


                              320 of 457 DOCUMENTS

                       St. Louis Post-Dispatch (Missouri)

                 November 21, 1999, Sunday, THREE STAR EDITION

MAGAZINE FOR BALKAN IMMIGRANTS MAKES A SPLASH

BYLINE: Jerry Berger

SECTION: NEWS, Pg. A2

LENGTH: 1566 words


BALKAN TALKING: St. Louis' burgeoning population of immigrants has already
invigorated the St. Louis Public Schools soccer program and fueled a
mini-explosion of ethnic restaurants serving up Balkan delicacies. Now, Plima
Magazin, a bimonthly foreign language magazine focusing on Bosnian and Croatian
interests in St. Louis, has won a listing in the Drohlich's metro media guide.

DUST BUNNIES: Buried in the multi-paged proposed budget of the new privately run
downtown St. Louis taxing district is an item sure to tickle the fancy of my
colleague Bill McClellan, who is attempting to insulate his attic with unused
city planning documents. Three-quarters of the way down the column of Exhibit D
is a line-item for a new "stakeholder engagement" plan.

KLING RAP: Stephen Kling, attorney for several subdivisions and individual
neighbors of a large undeveloped site adjacent to BJC West in Creve Coeur, has
asked the C.C. City Council to investigate the actions of Susan Murphy, the
former chairman of its planning and zoning commission, and others regarding
development and passage of a land-use plan for the site. The plan itself became
the centerpiece of more than three years of litigation by its owner. Calling the
actions "disturbing," Kling has forwarded an extensively annotated 12-page
letter based on more than 40 depositions to City Council members detailing
"numerous private phone conversations and meetings" between Murphy and property
owners that he claims had the effect of shutting out and manipulating citizen
participation in planning for the West Olive area.

COMINGS 'N' GOINGS: Charlene Bry, founder and publisher of the Ladue News, and
Karen Carroll, veep and GM of KMOX Radio, will receive the Press Club of
Metropolitan St. Louis' "Media Persons of the Year" award on March 7 in the
Khorassan Room at the Chase Park Plaza Hotel. Emcee will be Charles Brennan, and
one of the roasters will be Bob Costas. For tix, call 382-5952, ext. 234 ...

Former Talent Plus staffer Pam Capps has joined the Medve Group, where she is
tubthumping Jake Medve's Lambert Field parking lot, Park Express ...

HONORABLE MENTIONS: Pals of Lynn Thompson, an attorney at Herzog, Crebs and Ken
Goessling of GNG properties celebrated their nupts at St. Francis Xavier last
week with a pouring at the posh St. Louis Club. His parents are Ken Goessling
Sr. of Florida and Patti Dear of Ladue. Hers are redoubtable SBC exec Joe and
Lana Thompson ...

Ziercher & Hocher barrister M. DeAnn Outlaw is ringed to St. Luke's ER Dr. Bill
Gueck ...

Optometrist Laura Barthel, former Miss Teen Missouri, and Dr. Martin Citardi,
assistant prof of ear-nose-throat surgery at SLU Hospital, are engaged ...

Berkeley Police Capt. Jim McMullin began drawing his pension Friday before a
farewell at the department offices ...

Quietly celebrating at the star table at Tony's were investor Donn Lipton, Randy
Weissman, prez of Storage Banc, and Chuck Barbo, chairman of the board of
Shurgard - the huge international self-storage real estate investment trust. The
occasion was Lipton's $ 13 million acquisition of Shurgard's three self-storage
facilities in St. Louis. Storage Banc/Mobile Vault now has eight facilities and
is on target to being the dominant player here within the next year ...

Has Fox Television's dominance of the professional sports scene brainwashed pro
players? Some Fox Channel 2 news execs are yukking it up a bit at the expense of
rival KPLR-TV (Channel 11). When St. Louis Rams' Torry Holt filled in on Channel
11's newscast Thursday night, he thanked his co-anchors, on-air and live, for
"letting me come here and be on Channel 2" ...

More than 50 guests showed up at Geoff Courtnall's retirement party at
Portabella on Thursday after the Blues' victory over the Florida Panthers. Tom
Zoog and Mark Del Pietro supervised the preparation of grilled pork chops and
chicken ravioli ...

And, over at David Slay's Restaurant at the Seven Gables Inn, Tom Eagleton
hosted dinner in one dining room, while Gene McNary held forth in another. At
the same time, Sen. John Ashcroft dined with aides in another room. And, in Pete
Rothschild's roost, the epicenter of his clan gathered in his honor, including
Carolyn Dames, Bob Graham, Leigh Leonard, Larry Cherry, Maria Heaman, Carrie
Human, Deborah Fenton, Kenny Battoe, Patti Accardi, Tara Ricci, Rick Fox and
Burt Garland ...

Michael J. Hackett's Hackett Security has landed a SAMMY from Security Sales
magazine for "outstanding design quality and impressive consistency of use" in
marketing.

A STAR IS BORN: In a region which has traditionally ignored the architecture of
dining, Harriet Cella Marshall's Truffles on Clayton Road is a spectacular
exception. With input by Harriet and her father, Charles J. Cella, St. Louis
expatriate Charles Kerr of Chicago's Newton & Kerr has created a masterpiece
highlighted by: a bar reminiscent of an early English pub; several dining rooms
reflecting the "go-go 1920s"; a ceiling reproduced from a historic restaurant in
France; wood trim made of East African white mahogany; and a restroom with a
1917 "receptacle" from the Cella family's original American Theatre. During a
recent dinner preview at which Truffles' signature dish, beef rib chops, were
prepared by exec chef Sandro Bozzato of Venice, Italy, toasts abounded,
including one from Kerr, who called the restaurant "a dream come true for
Harriet." (Harriet is a Culinary Institute grad and for the last 10 years had a
restaurant atop her wish list). Others on hand were Harriet's husband, Doug
Marshall, GM Alain Rochelemagne - who previously toiled for renowned chef Paul
Bricuse and Jean Banchet of Le Francais in Wheeling, Ill. - and maitre d' Carlos
Pereira, who seated the guests between a flurry of phone reservations for New
Year's Eve seatings (with live entertainment). Truffles opens Monday night.

WITH THE POLS: After 27 years in the Missouri Legislature, well-respected state
Sen. Walt Mueller, R-Kirkwood, is calling it a career. In a letter sent to key
supporters this week, Mueller said he's looking to life after politics. Early
contenders to replace Mueller in the heavily Republican 15th Senate District
include state Rep. Emmy McClelland of Webster Groves and state Rep. Michael
Gibbons of Kirkwood ... After 27 years in the Missouri Legislature,
well-respected state Sen. Walt Mueller, R-Kirkwood, is calling it a career. In a
letter sent to key supporters this week, Mueller said he's looking to life after
politics.

St. Louis County Councilman Jeff Wagener may be looking for some help. Top aide
Julie Murphy has signed on to former Sen. Bill Bradley's presidential campaign
...

St. Louis mayoral aide Joe Palm has a distasteful new duty. Palm is running a
one-person investigation team in City Hall parking lots tracking down the owners
of automobiles whose bumper stickers and window signs support candidates other
than Mayor Clarence Harmon. Once Palm ascertains the owner's identity and
office, a city marshal is dispatched to convince the owner to remove the
offending sign ...

Officials at TCI/AT&T cable system are taking no chances that city res idents
will get a chance to see any television ads in support of a new city ordinance
signed by St. Louis Mayor Harmon and Aldermanic prez Francis Slay. Cable
officials have informed Missourians for Open Internet Access, who produced the
30-second spots, that no time to run the ads will be sold to them, says Open
Access exec director Carolyn Seward. When the law becomes effective in three
weeks, it will require the city's next cable franchisee to provide
nondiscriminatory access to the Internet ...

And, styling themselves as electoral bellwethers in the tradition of
first-in-the-nation primary state New Hampshire, members of Mayor Harmon's home
ward political organization have delivered the city's first full set of
endorsements in next year's state and federal elections. The 6th Ward Democratic
organization voted this week to endorse the candidacies of Al Gore, Mel
Carnahan, Dick Gephardt, Bob Holden, Lacy Clay, Jay Nixon, Joe Maxwell, Brian
May and Maida Coleman. The group also voted to endorse unanimously the state
representative candidacy of its chairman, Russ Carnahan. Filing for state
offices will not even begin until February.

FAREWELL TO THEE: Photographer Scott C. Dine will say goodbye to the
Post-Dispatch newsroom Tuesday - 35 years to the day after he first said hello.
His career as a news photographer began as a high school sophomore in Amarillo,
Texas. "A good news photographer has his strong points, of course," Dine said.
"But you'd better be able to shoot anything that comes down the pike." After a
few years in college, Dine joined the old United Press in Dallas. Then after a
stint in the Army, he worked for the Richm ond (Va.) Times-Dispatch, the Denver
Post and Houston Chronicle. Dine moved to the Post-Dispatch, which sent him on
assignments in Europe and Vietnam and gave him such high-profile jobs as
covering the World Series. In the course of his career, Dine has held such
office posts as photo editor and interim chief photographer. He lives in
University City with his wife of 34 years, the former Anne Hamilton. They have
two children - Brooke Dine, who works in Washington on the House of
Representatives Web page, and Joshua Dine, a drama student in New York ...

LOAD-DATE: November 21, 1999

LANGUAGE: English

GRAPHIC: PHOTO (1) Photo - Having fun at Truffles: (from left) Alain
Rochelemagne, Doug Marshall, his wife - and owner of Truffles - Harriet Cella
Marshall, chef Sandro Bozzato, Charles Cella and Charles Kerr.
 (2) Photo headshots -  (Charlene )Bry,  (Karen ) Carroll, (Pam)Capps, (Scott)
Dine

TYPE: Jerry Berger Column

                  Copyright 1999 St. Louis Post-Dispatch, Inc.


                              321 of 457 DOCUMENTS

                       St. Louis Post-Dispatch (Missouri)

                December 6, 1999, Monday, FIVE STAR LIFT EDITION

CASTRO ISSUES ULTIMATUM ON RETURN OF RESCUED BOY;
HE WARNS OF MASS PROTEST IF YOUTH IS NOT RETURNED; 500 MARCH IN HAVANA

BYLINE: From News Services

SECTION: NEWS, Pg. A3

LENGTH: 362 words

DATELINE: HAVANA


President Fidel Castro raised the stakes Sunday in an international custody
battle for 5-year-old Elian Gonzalez, a Cuban boy rescued off Florida.

Castro urged the United States to return the youth within 72 hours or face mass
protests.

The first such demonstration took place Sunday night, when about 500 members of
the Communist Youth organization waved flags and chanted political slogans
outside the U.S. Interests Section in Havana - the U.S. government's Cuban
mission.

"This is a flagrant crime of kidnapping by the U.S. authorities," Castro said
earlier Sunday in a broadcast by state TV.

The boy was found clinging to a rubber tube at sea a week ago after surviving
the sinking of a boat carrying illegal Cuban immigrants. His mother and
stepfather were among 10 passengers who drowned.

The U.S. government has released the boy to a great-aunt and great-uncle in
Miami. But his father and grandparents in Cuba are demanding his immediate
return.

"We are going to move heaven and earth ... it will be a war, an international
battle," Castro said. "If they are averagely intelligent, they will announce the
return of this boy within 72 hours."

The State Department's spokesman, James P. Rubin, said the case was referred to
the Florida courts because they take precedence in custody disputes. But Cuban
authorities rejected this approach, saying they did not trust the "corrupt
judges" in a nation where anti-Castro exiles hold political sway.

Elian's father, Juan Miguel Gonzalez, said his ex-wife took his son out of Cuba
without his knowledge.

Castro said he was infuriated by the way his enemies in Miami had embraced the
custody case as their own. He criticized television images of the child
surrounded by toys and wearing a T-shirt of the Cuban-American National
Foundation - his political nemesis.

U.S. legal experts said what may have to be resolved are two conflicting
principles. One is the child's custody, which in most cases is granted to the
surviving biological parent. The other is the child's immigration status. The
federal Cuban Readjustment Act of 1966 grants any Cuban who reaches American
soil the right to stay.

LOAD-DATE: December 6, 1999

LANGUAGE: English

GRAPHIC: PHOTO Photo by THE ASSOCIATED PRESS - Cuban soldiers arrive at the U.S.
interest building Sunday in Havana. They are reinforcing security in the face of
potential protests over the fate of Elian Gonzalez, the boy rescued by Americans
at sea.

                  Copyright 1999 St. Louis Post-Dispatch, Inc.


                              322 of 457 DOCUMENTS

                       St. Louis Post-Dispatch (Missouri)

                  December 6, 1999, Monday, THREE STAR EDITION

CASTRO ISSUES ULTIMATUM ON RETURN OF RESCUED BOY;
HE WARNS OF MASS PROTEST IF YOUTH IS NOT RETURNED TO CUBA WITHIN 72 HOURS

BYLINE: From News Services

SECTION: NEWS, Pg. A3

LENGTH: 362 words

DATELINE: HAVANA


President Fidel Castro raised the stakes Sunday in an international custody
battle for a 6-year-old Cuban boy rescued off the Florida coast. He urged the
United States to return the youth within 72 hours or face mass protests.

"This is a flagrant crime of kidnapping by the U.S. authorities," Castro said in
a broadcast Sunday by state TV.

The youth is Elian Gonzalez. He was found clinging to a rubber tube at sea a
week ago after surviving the sinking of a boat carrying illegal Cuban
immigrants. His mother and stepfather were among 10 passengers who drowned.

The U.S. government has released the boy to a great-aunt and great-uncle in
Miami. But his father and grandparents in Cuba are demanding his immediate
return.

"We are going to move heaven and earth ... it will be a war, an international
battle," Castro said. "If they are averagely intelligent, they will announce the
return of this boy within 72 hours."

The State Department's spokesman, James P. Rubin, said the case was referred to
the Florida state courts because they take precedence in custody disputes. But
Cuban authorities rejected this approach, saying they did not trust the "corrupt
judges" in a nation where anti-Castro exiles hold political sway.

Elian's father, Juan Miguel Gonzalez, said his ex-wife took his son out of Cuba
without his knowledge.

Castro said he was infuriated by the way his enemies in Miami had embraced the
custody case as their own. He criticized television images of the child
surrounded by toys and wearing a T-shirt of the Cuban-American National
Foundation - his politically influential nemesis.

U.S. legal experts said what may have to be resolved are two conflicting
principles. One is the child's custody, which in most cases is granted to the
surviving biological parent. The other is the child's immigration status. The
federal Cuban Readjustment Act of 1966 grants any Cuban who reaches American
soil the right to stay.

The conflict comes a week before U.S.-Cuba migration talks in Havana. Under
current agreements, the U.S. government was to stop accepting Cubans picked up
at sea. In turn, Cuba promised to prevent illegal departures.

LOAD-DATE: December 6, 1999

LANGUAGE: English

GRAPHIC: PHOTO Photo by THE ASSOCIATED PRESS - Cuban soldiers arrive at the U.S.
interest building Sunday in Havana. They are reinforcincg security in the face
of potential protests over the fate of Elian Gonzalez, the boy rescued by
Americans at sea.

                  Copyright 1999 St. Louis Post-Dispatch, Inc.


                              323 of 457 DOCUMENTS

                       St. Louis Post-Dispatch (Missouri)

               December 10, 1999, Friday, FIVE STAR LIFT EDITION

HUNDREDS OF THOUSANDS IN CUBA DEMAND BOY'S RETURN;
U.S. IMMIGRATION OFFICIALS AWAIT RESPONSE TO REQUEST FOR INTERVIEW WITH FATHER

BYLINE: The Associated Press

SECTION: NEWS, Pg. A5

LENGTH: 365 words

DATELINE: HAVANA


Hundreds of thousands of Cubans flooded Havana's main coastal highway Thursday
to demand the return of a 6-year-old boy who was rescued off the Florida coast
two weeks ago.

Schoolchildren, workers and housewives marched by the U.S. Interest Section,
shouting: "We want Elian! We want Elian!" as Fidel Castro's government revved up
its propaganda campaign in the fight to bring Elian Gonzalez home.

Throughout Havana, employees were instructed at work places to participate in
the march and teachers brought their students after classes ended for the day.

The Communist government, which organized the march and transported most
marchers to the site, said the turnout was at least 300,000. Officials used
buses to bring marchers in from as far away as 100 miles.

The chief of the U.S. mission in Cuba, meanwhile, said she was awaiting a
response from Cuban officials to a request by U.S. immigration officials for an
interview with Elian's father, who wants the child returned home.

"They said they would not have an answer for us until this evening," said Vicki
Huddleston, head of the U.S. Interests Section, the American diplomatic mission,
in Havana. No decision had been made by late afternoon, but Cuban authorities
had asked some questions, a move that U.S . authorities viewed as positive.

U.S. officials say a letter from American immigration authorities was delivered
to the Cuban Foreign Ministry on Wednesday night after a demonstration outside
the American mission.

The one-page letter indicated that the Immigration and Naturalization Service
wanted to interview Juan Miguel Gonzalez, the boy's father, at the U.S. mission
in Havana to determine "whether he has an ability to prove that in fact he is
the father of the child" and other basic facts, Deputy Attorney General Eric
Holder said. Holder said immigration officials would make the final decision on
whether to return the boy to Cuba.

At Wednesday night's demonstration outside the U.S. mission, President Fidel
Castro told a crowd of tens of thousands that the boy's father had said he would
not talk to American officials unless they can tell him when the child will be
brought home.

LOAD-DATE: December 10, 1999

LANGUAGE: English

GRAPHIC: PHOTO THE ASSOCIATED PRESS Photo - Cubans in Havana take part Wednesday
in what the government has called the "March of the Combatant Nation." The signs
read: Return little Elian to his school desk.

                  Copyright 1999 St. Louis Post-Dispatch, Inc.


                              324 of 457 DOCUMENTS

                       St. Louis Post-Dispatch (Missouri)

              December 11, 1999, Saturday, FIVE STAR LIFT EDITION

MILLIONS OF CUBANS HIT STREETS IN ORCHESTRATED PROTESTS AGAINST U.S. OVER;
BOY'S CUSTODY CASE

BYLINE: From News Services

SECTION: NEWS, Pg. 2

LENGTH: 515 words

DATELINE: HAVANA


* Elian Gonzalez's attorneys have filed a petition for political asylum in the
United States.

Cuba's ruling Communist Party mobilized millions of citizens across the island
Friday in a remarkable culmination to a week of anti-American street protests in
the custody dispute over a 6-year-old boy.

In the sixth and biggest day of rallies over the case of Elian Gonzalez, the
Caribbean island was effectively paralyzed in a rolling wave of demonstrations
from the eastern city of Santiago de Cuba to the western Pinar del Rio province.
Cubans echoed President Fidel Castro's outrage over what he calls "a flagrant
kidnapping by American authorities" of Elian.

"Elian is ours! Free Elian! Down with the Yankees!" chanted protesters marching
up to the U.S. diplomatic mission for the day's last rally on Havana's seafront
Malecon Boulevard.

Meanwhile, attorneys for the boy filed a petition for political asylum in the
United States, which could extend his stay with his Miami relatives for at least
60 days.

Roger Bernstein, one of the boy's five attorneys, said the Immigration and
Naturalization Service had 60 days to respond to the petition and give the boy a
hearing. "We are very confident he will be given a full opportunity to explain
why he fears returning to Cuba," Bernstein said.

Maria Elena Garcia, an immigration service spokeswoman, said a person who is
granted asylum is given permanent residency status after a year.

In a separate development, Havana sent a written protest to Washington over the
acquittal by a jury in Puerto Rico of five Cuban exiles accused of plotting to
assassinate Castro during a Ibero-American summit meeting in Venezuela in 1997.

"The decision of that U.S. federal jury is an unquestionable encouragement to
terrorists, gangsters and mercenaries who consider they have the right to
assassinate and hunt, as if they were in a jungle with total impunity, political
leaders from other states," said a government statement in the Communist Party
daily Granma.

Beneath the tide of militant rhetoric sweeping the island, however, U.S.  and
Cuban officials were having quiet contacts in Havana to seek a solution.

Elian was found at sea Nov. 25 after two days on an inner tube. His mother and
stepfather drowned on an ill-fated bid to flee Cuba for the United States. His
father, who lives in the provincial Cuban town of Cardenas, has demanded his
return.

About 350,000 flag-waving and chanting people gathered for the first rally
Friday in Santiago de Cuba, according to official figures.

"Be convinced, Mr. Imperialists, that our Elian is non-negotiable! This
kidnapping is an aggression against our dignity! Free Elian!" bellowed one of
the speakers.

Most Cubans unequivocally back Castro's campaign to bring back Elian. But some
privately question the melodramatic nature of the protests, which brought
millions to the streets Friday and are the biggest in decades.

The U.S. government wants Elian's father, Juan Miguel Gonzalez, to meet with
immigration officials to demonstrate that he has valid parental rights.

LOAD-DATE: December 11, 1999

LANGUAGE: English

                  Copyright 1999 St. Louis Post-Dispatch, Inc.


                              325 of 457 DOCUMENTS

                       St. Louis Post-Dispatch (Missouri)

               December 12, 1999, Sunday, FIVE STAR LIFT EDITION

IMMIGRANT PARENTS AND THEIR CHILDREN HERE RELISH HOLIDAY PARTY, FREEDOM

BYLINE: Ralph Dummit; Of The Post-Dispatch

SECTION: METRO, Pg. C6

LENGTH: 394 words


As many as 500 youngsters and their parents, all refugees from nearly a dozen
countries, got a taste of American holiday spirit Saturday afternoon at the
International Institute of St. Louis.

The event was billed as a holiday party for children age 15 and under and their
siblings. Most had been in the United States for less than a year. All had fled
their native countries because of religious or political persecution.

They had come from Bosnia, Kosovo, Somalia, Vietnam, Liberia, Nigeria, Sierra
Leone and Haiti.

They were greeted at the door by workers for the International Institute, which
has been welcoming new Americans for 80 years. Prominent in the welcoming party
was smiling St. Louis police officer Barry LaLumandier. His presence at the
building five days a week lends a sense of trust and security to wary newcomers.

Translators were on hand if needed, but language was no barrier. The children
eagerly went to work making cut-out paper hats, stenciling window hangings and
decorating cookies. A clown made animal shapes with balloons. Volunteers painted
flowers and snowflakes on cheeks and foreheads.

Still, for a party, it was a subdued affair. After all, with as many languages
and diverse cultures represented, group singing and games was not to be
expected.

Family groups clung closely together, speaking softly among themselves. Somber
fathers dutifully put on the hats their children had made for them. Shy mothers
steered their little ones up to get a candy cane. Refreshments were taken
quietly, families sitting closely together. No bantering from table to table.

Mirnes Jelacic, through an interpreter, said with a quick smile that he liked
everything about America. "But especially, I can go anywhere. It's a freedom."

He is 15 and arrived in St. Louis five months ago with his parents and his
10-year-old sister.

Mirnes said English is his favorite subject at Roosevelt High School. "It's easy
for me," he said, thanks to special English classes. He acknowledged, however,
that he speaks Bosnian mostly with the six other Bosnians at the school.

Hazira Caus, formerly from Bosnia, was kept busy translating at the Saturday
afternoon party. She has been in St. Louis for two years.

She's grateful for the International Institute. "This building, it would be much
harder without this building," she said.

LOAD-DATE: December 12, 1999

LANGUAGE: English

                  Copyright 1999 St. Louis Post-Dispatch, Inc.


                              326 of 457 DOCUMENTS

                       St. Louis Post-Dispatch (Missouri)

               December 14, 1999, Tuesday, FIVE STAR LIFT EDITION

FATHER BELIEVES CUBAN BOY WILL BE RETURNED HOME SOON

BYLINE: The Associated Press

SECTION: NEWS, Pg. A9

LENGTH: 456 words

DATELINE: HAVANA


A 6-year-old Cuban boy thrust into the center of U.S.-Cuban relations may soon
be on his way back to Cuba, the child's father said Monday after meeting with
U.S. immigration officials.

Juan Miguel Gonzalez said he had met with two representatives of the Immigration
and Naturalization Service without Cuban officials present.

"These people (the immigration service) have been on our side all along. They
agree that he should be back here, that the child should be returned as soon as
possible," Gonzalez said in an interview outside his two-story home in Cardenas,
95 miles east of Havana.

In Washington, James Foley, a State Department spokesman, said the purpose of
the interview was to receive from Gonzalez the documentation "certifying that he
is the boy's father, that he can legally exercise parental authority, and also
to find out directly from him his wishes for the child. The contents of the
interview are now part of an (immigration service) case file and are
confidential."

Russ Bergeron, an agency spokesman, said Gonzalez has established that he is the
father of the boy, Elian Gonzalez. But other officials said the issue of
parental rights had yet to be decided. Such rights involve a determination as to
whether the father had a genuine relationship with the boy and was not an
absentee parent.

Elian has been staying with relatives in Florida since he was rescued Nov. 25
off the coast of Fort Lauderdale, and the State Department has said the boy's
return is in the hands of the immigration service.

"I decided to meet with them to show I have no resentment toward them and to
repeat my position that my son should be returned to me as soon as possible,"
Gonzalez said. Cuban exiles in Miami and a range of U.S. politicians have argued
against returning the boy.

The dispute threatened to poison the atmosphere at Monday's U.S.-Cuba
immigration talks, even as Cuban-Americans stream into Havana on daily flights
set up under recent immigration accords.

U.S. officials wanted the immigration talks to focus on practical issues such as
methods for issuing visas. But Cuban National Assembly President Ricardo
Alarcon, who leads the Cuban delegation, said they "should be dominated by the
problems that led to the unfortunate incident of Elian."

As he entered the Havana convention center for the one-day talks, William
Brownfield, the lead U.S. negotiator, said "all immigration issues are on the
table."

Alarcon said Cuba views the U.S. policy of granting residency to any Cuban who
reaches American shores as a violation of the immigration accords of 1994 and
1995. He said it also leads Cubans to risk their lives by crossing the Florida
Straits, and encourages immigrant smuggling.

LOAD-DATE: December 14, 1999

LANGUAGE: English

GRAPHIC: PHOTO Color Photo by THE ASSOCIATED PRESS - Juan Miguel Gonzalez,
father of Elian Gonzalez, the Cuban boy whom the United States rescued at sea,
shows reporters a photograph of his son Monday. The boy's grandfather, Juan
Gonzalez, is in the background.

                  Copyright 1999 St. Louis Post-Dispatch, Inc.


                              327 of 457 DOCUMENTS

                       St. Louis Post-Dispatch (Missouri)

                January 2, 2000, Sunday, FIVE STAR LIFT EDITION

WE ASK COMMUNITY LEADERS ABOUT THEIR VISIONS FOR THE FUTURE . . .;
ON IMMIGRATION AND GROWING BEYOND THE MELTING POT

SECTION: IMAGINE ST. LOUIS, Pg. B6

LENGTH: 477 words


Just as the 20th has been known as the American Century, the 21st is being
called the Global Century. As St. Louisans, we must learn to live and work
side-by-side with people from around the world, if we are to survive and prosper
as individuals, as a city and as a nation.

If we look around the St. Louis of today, we can see developing what I think of
as gateways, not just to the West, but to the world. In the St. Louis of the
2lst Century, I see many Global Gateways, concentrated sites where the world can
come to St. Louis, even as St. Louis is going to the world.

Already, we can see several emergent examples of such gateways -- areas like
South Grand Boulevard and Olive Boulevard, where immigrants from many different
countries have established shops, restaurants and social clubs.

In 2020, I envision further development of these and other Global Gateways --
clusters of multiethnic stores, churches, senior citizen centers and the like.
These areas will present immigrants with a place to congregate and work together
to learn about life in their new homeland. At the same time, they will offer
other, more established Americans a chance for first hand experience with people
from other parts of the world.

Each global gateway might have its own multiethnic community center. There
members of various ethnic communities can hold meetings and social events. New
arrivals can receive special, linguistically and culturally appropriate social
services.

"Old-timers," more established immigrants and refugees, will work to preserve
their culture, perhaps through language lessons, ethnic dance classes, and even
mini-museums highlighting the traditions of their original homelands. This will
also be a place where immigrants can receive information on citizenship, city
services, even participate in voter registration drives!

At the same time that newcomers are making a special place for themselves, their
presence offers wonderful opportunities for St. Louisans to experience other
cultures. Schoolchildren will go on special field trips to visit the various
ethnic stores, churches and museums. In fact, local school systems will develop
special curricula to make the experience fit state requirements for world
geography, world history and the like.

Tourists also will enjoy the festivals and cultural events as well as the stores
and restaurants of the Global Gateways. The tag line "St. Louis -- Gateway to
the West and to he World" will become part of local marketing efforts. In the
summer, special activities like short-term language lessons and craft classes
can be offered at the community center, thus increasing the gateway's impact on
local children as well as tourists.

In short, tomorrow's Global Gateways will make St. Louis more integrally a part
of the growing, globally diverse world in which we will live.

LOAD-DATE: January 2, 2000

LANGUAGE: English

GRAPHIC: PHOTO PHOTO headshot - ANNA CROSSLIN

                  Copyright 2000 St. Louis Post-Dispatch, Inc.


                              328 of 457 DOCUMENTS

                       St. Louis Post-Dispatch (Missouri)

                 January 6, 2000, Thursday, THREE STAR EDITION

U.S. WILL SEND BOY BACK TO HIS FATHER IN CUBA;
DECISION PROMPTS DEMONSTRATIONS BY CUBAN-AMERICANS;
FAMILY WILL TRY TO BLOCK MOVE

BYLINE: From News Services

SECTION: NEWS, Pg. A1

LENGTH: 849 words

DATELINE: MIAMI


Touching off protests by hundreds of Cuban-Americans, the U.S. government
decided Wednesday to send Elian Gonzalez back to Cuba because "this little boy .
. . belongs with his father."

Elian, 6, has been in the middle of an international tug-of-war since he was
found Thanksgiving Day clinging to an inner tube at sea. His mother, stepfather
and eight others died while trying to reach the United States when the boat they
were on capsized.

He has been living with relatives in Miami, who have insisted they could give
Elian a better life than his father could back in Cuba. But on Wednesday, the
Immigration and Naturalization Service decided that Elian should be with his
father instead.

"Family reunification has long been a cornerstone of both American immigration
law and U.S. practice," INS Commissioner Doris Meissner said at a news
conference. "This little boy, who has been through so much, belongs with his
father."

The agency ruled that Elian must return to Cuba by Jan. 14.

Lawyers for the boy's relatives asked Attorney General Janet Reno to reverse the
decision and also planned to ask a federal judge for a restraining order. They
said the INS was violating its own rules by not allowing the boy to apply for
political asylum.

In Cuba, the communist government warned against "excessive optimism" about the
U.S. government's decision.

The boy's father could not be located for comment Wednesday. He and Elian's four
grandparents had dinner Tuesday in Havana with Fidel Castro, said the Rev. Joan
Brown Campbell of the National Council of Churches, who went to Cuba to help
reunite father and son.

After the INS decision in Washington, several hundred people linked arms,
shouted "Liberty!" and sang the Cuban national anthem in front of the house
where Elian has been staying with his paternal great-aunt and great-uncle.

In front of the Miami INS office, several hundred protesters waved Cuban and
American flags and shouted anti-Castro slogans.

The protests were emotional but peaceful, and paled in comparison to the huge
government-staged rallies in Havana demanding the boy's return.

"They're using him as if he were a toy, and Fidel Castro is saying, 'He's mine,
not yours,' " said 28-year-old Norisbel Almeida, a mother of two young children
at the protest outside the home. "Why did they show him the good life so he
could go back to Cuba and have nothing?"

Since he was rescued, Elian has been showered with toys, has visited Disney
World, celebrated his first Christmas in the United States and started attending
first grade.

He also has been in the constant glare of TV cameras. Reporters and
photographers staked out the home Wednesday as TV helicopters hovered above the
house and tracked Elian's movement as he left school, dressed in his uniform of
blue pants and white shirt.

Family members tried to shield Elian from the protests and media attention,
hustling him from school to an undisclosed location.

"He doesn't know what is going on. We don't want to make him feel bad," said
Marisleysis Gonzalez, the boy's cousin.

President Bill Clinton said he had honored a pledge to keep politics out of the
decision over the boy. "The INS followed the law and the p rocedure and made the
decision that they made after an exhaustive review of the facts," he said.

The Clinton administration has asked the Cuban government to issue an exit visa
to the father to allow him to escort the boy home. Ricardo Alarcon, president of
Cuba's National Assembly, had said Cuba would not stop the father from coming to
the United States as long as American officials first agreed to let the boy
return to Cuba.

Cuban adults who reach the U.S. mainland are routinely allowed to stay, but the
boy's age created diplomatic problems. Many Cuban exiles have insisted that his
mother's death in a bid to live in a free country was enough to allow Elian to
stay.

"It's a crime to send him back to Cuba," said Melba Roses, 56, who moved to the
United States from Cuba nearly 50 years ago. "There is food here and in Cuba,
there is none. The child has a right to stay."

Republican Jesse Helms, chairman of the Senate Foreign Relations Committee,
said: "Cuba is one of the most tyrannical nations on earth, and Fidel Castro has
undoubtedly made Elian's return a personal cause."

He said that when Congress reconvened, he would try to secure Elian U.S.
citizenship so that when he came of age, he could make a decision himself.

Asked what the boy has been saying, Armando Gutierrez, a spokesman for the Miami
family, said: "He cares for his father but he would like his father to be here
with him."

Some Cubans in Florida sympathized with the father.

"(Elian) should be with his father," Louis Bolivar, 32, said outside a shop near
Miami's Little Havana section. "They're doing the right thing."

But Jorge Mas, chairman of the powerful Cuban American National Foundation, said
it was immoral to send the child to Cuba.

"He will become a trophy for Fidel Castro, he will lose his childhood, he will
lose his life," Mas said.

LOAD-DATE: January 6, 2000

LANGUAGE: English

GRAPHIC: PHOTO Color Photo headshot - Elian Gonzalez
 He is the focus of an international tug of war

                  Copyright 2000 St. Louis Post-Dispatch, Inc.


                              329 of 457 DOCUMENTS

                       St. Louis Post-Dispatch (Missouri)

                January 9, 2000, Sunday, FIVE STAR LIFT EDITION

CUBAN-AMERICAN LEADERS CALL OFF PROTESTS IN MIAMI;
THEY BELIEVE SUBPOENA BY CONGRESSMAN WILL DELAY BOY'S RETURN TO FATHER

SECTION: NEWS, Pg. A5

LENGTH: 373 words

DATELINE: MIAMI


Leaders of this city's Cuban-American exile community decided Saturday to cancel
street protests, after the relatives of 6-year-old Elian Gonzalez apparently won
a reprieve in their fight against the boy's return to his father in Cuba.

Organizers had planned to focus on stopping traffic in and out of Miami
International Airport on Monday, hoping to cripple the nation's 12th-busiest
airport.

That plan was put on hold after Rep. Dan Burton, R-Ind., issued a subpoena
Friday seeking the boy's testimony before a House committee on Feb. 10. Cuban
exile leaders believe the subpoena might extend a deadline for the boy's return
from Friday until at least the subpoena date.

"The civil disobedience campaign has been canceled - for the moment," said
Felipe Rojas, a spokesman for the anti-Castro group, the Democracy Movement.

Hundreds took to Miami streets in two days of vehement but largely peaceful
demonstrations this week, hoping to pressure politicians and other officials
into reversing, or at least reviewing, a decision Wednesday by the Immigration
and Naturalization Service that Elian belonged with his father in Cuba.

The boy has become the focus of an international custody battle since
Thanksgiving Day, when he was found floating in an inner tube in the Atlantic
Ocean after his mother and stepfather drowned trying to reach the United States.

In the protests, large trucks rumbled down the Miami area's major thoroughfares,
slowing to 10 mph and snarling rush-hour traffic. Protesters forced the closing
of the Port of Miami for a brief time Thursday afternoon, and throughout the
downtown area and the Cuban-American neighborhood of Little Havana, hundreds
thronged the streets, shouting, 'Libertad!'

Police arrested more than 135 people.

The leaders of various exile groups who met Saturday morning applauded Burton's
action. They also lauded Elian's great-uncle in Miami who on Friday filed a
court petition seeking to be named as the child's temporary guardian.

Rojas said the protests had played an important role. "We feel, and this is
unfortunate, that if you do not demand your rights, bureaucrats have a way of
stepping over you and forgetting about your rights," Rojas said Saturday.

LOAD-DATE: January 9, 2000

LANGUAGE: English

GRAPHIC: PHOTO Photo by AGENCE FRANCE-PRESSE - Six-year-old Elian Gonzalez sits
on his uncle Lazaro Gonzalez's shoulders as he is greeted by a crowd on Saturday
in Miami's Little Havana neighborhood.

                  Copyright 2000 St. Louis Post-Dispatch, Inc.


                              330 of 457 DOCUMENTS

                       St. Louis Post-Dispatch (Missouri)

               January 13, 2000, Thursday, FIVE STAR LIFT EDITION

CUBAN BOY'S PLIGHT GIVES POLITICIANS A POPULAR ISSUE FOR CAMPAIGN TRAIL

BYLINE: Tom Raum; The Associated Press

SECTION: NEWS, Pg. A10

LENGTH: 926 words

DATELINE: WASHINGTON



IN THE NEWS: ELIAN GONZALEZ

An inner tube carried a 6-year-old child from Cuba into the center of a
political firestorm in the United States. At least one pollster says the child's
fate probably won't be an issue in national elections beyond Florida. But that
isn't keeping national office seekers from taking sides in the heated battle
over whether the boy should stay in the U. S. or return to his father in Cuba.

* Republicans quickly criticized a decision by the Immigration and
Naturalization Service to return the child to his father, as did former Sen.
Bill Bradley, a Democratic presidential hopeful. And a bipartisan group of
lawmakers is trying to delay his departure until a Florida state court hearing
on the matter.

The plight of Elian Gonzalez is fast becoming popular fodder for U.S.
politicians, both in Congress and on the presidential campaign trail.

Although some of those opposing the 6-year-old Cuban refugee boy's return to
Castro's Cuba say they are a little uneasy about the level of attention given
the case, Elian's fresh face and harrowing story clearly have struck a chord
with Americans.

Attorney General Janet Reno on Wednesday upheld a decision by the Immigration
and Naturalization Service giving custody to Elian's father. She brushed aside a
Florida state court order that the boy stay in the United States until after a
March 6 hearing. Reno said the federal decision could be challenged only in
federal court.

A bipartisan group of lawmakers opposing the boy's return to Cuba appealed to
Reno to stay a federal decision to return Elian to his father in Cuba -- and to
let the state court proceedings go forward.

"We believe that, at a minimum, he deserves his day in court," said the letter
by the House International Relations Committee chairman, Rep. Benjamin Gilman,
R-N.Y., and 13 other lawmakers.

Elian was plucked from the Atlantic on Nov. 25 after clinging to an inner tube
for two days. His mother and 10 other Cubans drowned when their boat capsized as
they fled Cuba.

"This is the cutest kid imaginable, and he's dealing with forces that most
adults couldn't handle," said Larry Sabato, a University of Virginia political
scientist. "This has a resonance that few political issues do."

Vying for Florida

And what election-year politician has ever won votes by siding with Fidel
Castro, Cuba's communist president, especially in electoral vote-rich Florida?

Contenders for the Republican presidential nomination quickly criticized the
Immigration and Naturalization Service ruling that required Elian's return to
his father in Cuba, and so has former Sen. Bill Bradley of New Jersey, a
Democratic hopeful.

Vice President Al Gore, struggling not to be branded with the ruling, questioned
whether immigration officials had the "experience and expertise" necessary to
decide the boy's fate.

The ruling, issued late last week, said Elian would be returned to Cuba by this
Friday.

Trying to buy time, Rep. Dan Burton, R-Ind., chairman of the House Government
Reform Committee, issued a subpoena requiring the child's appearance at a
hearing Feb. 10. Then, a state judge in Miami on Monday awarded Elian's Florida
relatives emergency custody and scheduled a March 6 guardianship hearing.

The immigration service deadline has thus been circumvented for now, although
the ruling remains in place.

Citizenship for Elian?

Republicans and some Democrats on Capitol Hill are lining up to support
legislation to grant Elian full U.S. citizenship.

Sen. Connie Mack, R-Fla., the prime sponsor, said the most immediate impact
would be to remove the immigration service's jurisdiction. "The issue then
becomes a custody issue rather than an immigration issue," Mack said.

In the meantime, Mack and other lawmakers urged Reno not to intervene at least
until after the March hearing before the state court.

Some lawmakers are talking about giving Elian's father and other Cuban family
members resident status. Still others want to call immigration officials before
congressional panels to explain their thinking, and Burton has said he will
force them to explain if they send away the boy before the court acts.

Mark Mellman, a Democratic pollster, does not see the issue as being dominant in
the presidential race, except perhaps in Florida with its large, politically
active Cuban-American community.

More than 900,000 Cuban-born people are in the United States, among them 474,000
naturalized citizens, according to the U.S. Census Bureau.

In 1980, about 80 percent of Florida's Cuban exiles voted for Republican Ronald
Reagan for president, and in 1984, 88 percent voted to keep him in office. In
1988, 82 percent voted for Republican George Bush, and in 1992, 70 percent voted
to keep him in office. But in 1996, only 58 percent voted for Republican Bob
Dole.

Still, Mellman suggested that Florida is a difficult target for Democrats at
best.

"Everyone would like to think Florida's in play. But if Governor Jeb Bush can't
deliver Florida to the other Governor Bush (George W. Bush), then the campaign
is in more trouble than we thought," Mellman said.

Efforts to keep the boy in this country have been opposed by some children's
advocacy and church groups -- and questioned by legal scholars and experts on
child custody.

But such arguments aren't the stuff of congressional press releases or speeches.

"This child's mother died bringing him to freedom. It makes a mockery of her
death to return him," said Sen. Robert Torricelli, D-N.J.

LOAD-DATE: January 13, 2000

LANGUAGE: English

GRAPHIC: PHOTO THE ASSOCIATED PRESS Photos
 (1) New Hampshire voter Tom Nemcik tells Republican presidential candidate Sen.
John McCain of Arizona what he thinks should be done with 6-year-old Cuban
refugee Elian Gonzalez as McCain arrives at the VFW hall in Milford, N.H., on
Wednesday.
 (2) Photo headshot - Elian Gonzalez wears a crown as he watches the "Three
Kings" parade in Miami on Sunday. Efforts to keep the boy in this country have
been opposed by some children's advocacy and church groups -- and questioned by
legal scholars and experts on child custody.

                  Copyright 2000 St. Louis Post-Dispatch, Inc.


                              331 of 457 DOCUMENTS

                       St. Louis Post-Dispatch (Missouri)

                January 14, 2000, Friday, FIVE STAR LIFT EDITION

RETURNING BOY WOULD BETRAY HIS MOTHER'S WISH

BYLINE: Gene McNary

SECTION: EDITORIAL, Pg. C17

LENGTH: 673 words



CUBA

THE saga of Elian Gonzalez tears at our heartstrings as we ponder whether the
child should be returned to his father and the oppression of Cuba, or allowed to
remain in the U.S. to enjoy the freedom for which his mother paid dearly. The
case raises complex issues of custody and family law, U.S. immigration law and,
most importantly, our responsibility as a nation espousing to be the protector
of democracy and champion of freedom.

When the issue of Elian's deportation to Cuba first arose, 90 percent of
Americans supported his immediate return to his father, Juan Miguel Gonzalez.
Sentiment is changing as the public reflects upon the reasons that motivated
Congress to enact the Cuban Adjustment Act in 1966.

This country-specific legislation provides special treatment for Cubans and
expressed our abhorrence of the tyrannical acts of Castro and his oppressive,
communist government. It was a proactive law, in recognition of past mistakes
and an attempt to avoid the horrors that this nation experienced when good
people stood by and did nothing in the dark days of our history. This law is in
remembrance of slaves being returned to owners, and of Jews trying to escape
Nazi Germany, who were instead returned to their death.

The Cuban Adjustment Act was also a self-interested piece of legislation, in
recognition of the many contributions that have been made to our nation by
immigrants seeking freedom. Yet, we also know that this question of freedom is
not just a legal issue -- it is the fundamental principle upon which this nation
is founded, and a conviction that brought our own ancestors to this nation and
for which Americans of all stripes have sacrificed and died.

The Cuban Adjustment Act has served as a precedent for 34 years and has been a
beacon to Cubans who were willing to flee dictatorship and oppression, knowing
that 90 miles away lay sanctuary and freedom. Now we come to know of this young
Cuban mother, who in attempting to take advantage of our offer, has lost her
life. Had U.S. law and practice called for the immediate deportation of Cubans,
she probably would not have attempted this perilous journey. We cannot in good
conscience betray her by summarily sending her son back to Cuba.

COULD the father, free of duress and possible retaliation, leave Cuba to come to
Florida to work with Elian's U.S. relatives to determine the best arrangement
possible for Elian? Can Juan Miguel Gonzalez just buy a plane ticket and come to
the U.S. as this newspaper suggests -- or is it possible that Castro fears
international embarrassment should American justice go too far and offer a green
card not only to Elian, but also to Juan Miguel Gonzalez and his immediate
family? It is obvious that any father seeking to love and protect his son would
be on the next plane (or boat) to be with his young son in his time of need as
he copes with the loss of his mother and the nightmare of having been left alone
and adrift at sea. I believe that Gonzalez' absence demonstrates that he fears
retaliation by Castro or that Castro fears that he may defect.

In response to these difficult issues, this newspaper has taken the cavalier
position that the U.S. should show the same concern toward its own children in
need and to countries other than Cuba. One cannot disagree with this simple
proposition, although this argument misses the mark. While we continue to assert
our best efforts and overwhelming concern in America and other parts of the
world, the fact that we have not succeeded in eradicating all social ills is not
the answer to the question. To summarily return Elian to a totalitarian
existence would show a callous disregard for the freedom and democracy for which
America stands. I believe that Elian is entitled to a decision by a family court
judge following a fair hearing free from Castro's coercion. I embrace the
position that it remains our responsibility as the leader of the free world to
protect this one deserving human being. Elian is a test of our resolve.

LOAD-DATE: January 14, 2000

LANGUAGE: English

GRAPHIC: GRAPHIC Graphic / Illustration by JEFF MACNELLY / CHICAGO TRIBUNE -
(Illustration is of Elian in a baseball cap pitching a ball to a man holding a
baseball bat dressed as Uncle Sam. "Put a little more zip in that fastball, kid,
and you can stay here as long as you want.")

TYPE: Commentary Column

                  Copyright 2000 St. Louis Post-Dispatch, Inc.


                              332 of 457 DOCUMENTS

                       St. Louis Post-Dispatch (Missouri)

                January 16, 2000, Sunday, FIVE STAR LIFT EDITION

ANTI-IMMIGRATION GROUPS START AD CAMPAIGN IN IOWA

BYLINE: The Associated Press

SECTION: NEWS, Pg. A9

LENGTH: 464 words

DATELINE: DES MOINES, IOWA


Anti-immigration groups have latched onto Iowa's first-in-the-nation caucuses as
a national stage, pouring thousands of dollars into campaign advertising that
blames immigration for many of the country's woes.

In one newspaper ad, words printed over a garbage dump read: "When those
candidates tell you how unspoiled and beautiful Iowa is, ask them what they're
going to do to keep it that way.

"Most likely you'll have to give them the answer: reduce immigration."

Another ad describes the town of Storm Lake, where the IBP Inc. meatpacking
plant employs hundreds of Hispanics, as a place "where quality of life is but a
memory."

Gov. Tom Vilsack, a Democrat, railed against the ads last week, calling them a
deplorable propaganda campaign by "hate-mongers" who "go after Hispanics and
Asians."

Several television stations and newspapers, including The Des Moines Register,
have refused to run them, saying the ads are misleading and inflammatory.

"It was insinuating that immigrants were garbage," said Register Publisher
Barbara Henry.

While few Iowans have publicly agreed with the ads, Dan Stein, executive
director of the Washington-based Federation for American Immigration Reform,
said his group has had overwhelmingly positive feedback from the ad campaign.

"Iowans have been browbeat to think of this level of immigration as inevitable,
that they should like it and everybody should get along," Stein said.

Another group that has run anti-immigration ads in Iowa and across the country
since 1997 is the Virginia-based American Immigration Control Foundation.

The Iowa ads, which began running three weeks before the state's caucuses on
Jan. 24, say the U.S. population will grow to 400 million from 275 million
people in 50 years without immigration reforms. They say the country doesn't
have room for that many people and show images of unemployed workers and a
decaying neighborhood.

In Storm Lake, Mayor Jon Kruse has demanded a public apology from what he called
"the inconsiderate, uninformed, out-of-state, political, special interest
group."

The ad saying Storm Lake's quality of life has been diminished by immigration
says the city's schools, jails and hospitals have been overburdened by
foreigners. It portrays a business forced to close its doors, a neighborhood in
disarray and people being arrested. But none of the images was filmed in Storm
Lake.

"I call it very demeaning," said Dale Carver, who heads an area diversity task
force. "They didn't portray Storm Lake at all in a true manner."

Federation spokesman Rick Oltman of San Rafael, Calif., said the group is
sticking by the ad.

"I don't think we have anything to apologize for," Oltman said. "The mayor did
not correct any of the things that were said in the ad."

LOAD-DATE: January 16, 2000

LANGUAGE: English

                  Copyright 2000 St. Louis Post-Dispatch, Inc.


                              333 of 457 DOCUMENTS

                       St. Louis Post-Dispatch (Missouri)

               January 18, 2000, Tuesday, FIVE STAR LIFT EDITION

IN HAITI, BROTHER AND SISTER LOOK FORWARD TO REUNION WITH THEIR MOTHER IN THE;
UNITED STATES

BYLINE: The Associated Press

SECTION: NEWS, Pg. A10

LENGTH: 300 words


The two Haitian children still lack passports, but they have a more valuable
treasure: permission to join their mother in Florida and, possibly, begin a new
life.

Germanie, 8, and Marc Yvens Dieubon, 9, were separated from their mother, Yvena
Rhinvil, after a smuggling boat packed with 411 would-be migrants ran aground
off the Florida coast on Jan. 1.

Rhinvil, 33, who is pregnant, was one of four people brought ashore for medical
treatment. Her children were left on the boat and were among the 407 people
returned to Haiti.

"They took our mother away. We cried, but nobody asked us why," said Marc, who
along with his sister rode in different sections of the rickety vessel, squeezed
together so tightly that they had to sleep hunched over on a bench.

They hardly moved during the several days they spent at sea.

The siblings became the focus of an intense lobby by Haitian-Americans who
contrasted their plight with the immense attention given Elian Gonzalez, the
6-year-old Cuban boy at the center of an international custody dispute.

The two cases underscored what critics say is a double standard between Cubans
and others who seek refuge in the United States. Thanks to a 1966 law, Cubans
who reach shore usually are allowed to stay.

Haitians and others are usually repatriated unless they successfully navigate
the complex and difficult political asylum process.

The U.S. Immigration and Naturalization Service granted the children
humanitarian parole last Thursday.

INS officials say U.S. Coast Guard officers didn't know Rhinvil had children on
board before they took her from the boat.

Yvena Rhinvil has applied for political asylum, said Pierre Esperance, director
of the Haitian rights group.

He said he was optimistic that she would succeed.

LOAD-DATE: January 18, 2000

LANGUAGE: English

                  Copyright 2000 St. Louis Post-Dispatch, Inc.


                              334 of 457 DOCUMENTS

                       St. Louis Post-Dispatch (Missouri)

                January 19, 2000, Wednesday, THREE STAR EDITION

BUCHANAN SAYS HE WOULD CUT FLOW OF IMMIGRATION

BYLINE: The Associated Press

SECTION: NEWS, Pg. A2

LENGTH: 264 words

DATELINE: YORBA LINDA, CALIF.


Reform Party presidential contender Pat Buchanan blamed "mass immigration" for a
splintering of American culture on Tuesday and pledged to stem the flow if he
captures the White House.

"In too many cases, the American melting pot has been reduced to a simmer,"
Buchanan told 350 people at the Richard Nixon Library & Birthplace.

"If we want to assimilate new Americans - and we have no choice if we are going
to remain one nation - we must slow down the pace of immigration," Nixon's
former speechwriter said. "America is Balkanizing like never before."

In his speech, Buchanan promised if elected to reduce new entry visas to between
250,000 and 300,000 a year. In printed copies of his address, distributed to
reporters in advance, he set the figure at 300,000.

In recent years, the United States has admitted between 700,000 and 800,000
legal, permanent residents each year, said Don Mueller, a spokesman for the
Immigration and Naturalization Service.

Buchanan also pledged to make control of illegal immigration a national
priority, though he offered no specific plans. "A country that cannot control
its borders is not sovereign," Buchanan said to applause.

He criticized a U.S. policy that favors prospective immigrants who have
relatives here, rather than their education and skills.

Buchanan blamed a host of other ills on what he characterized as excessive
immigration.

He said crime and prison populations have increased in some regions where new
immigrants have settled in large numbers, and he contended that immigration has
hurt wages.

LOAD-DATE: January 19, 2000

LANGUAGE: English

GRAPHIC: PHOTO THE ASSOCIATED PRESS Photo - Pat Buchanan, a Reform Party
presidential hopeful, assailed "mass immigration" Tuesday in a speech at the
Richard Nixon Library & Birthplace in Yorba Linda, Calif.

                  Copyright 2000 St. Louis Post-Dispatch, Inc.


                              335 of 457 DOCUMENTS

                       St. Louis Post-Dispatch (Missouri)

               January 20, 2000, Thursday, FIVE STAR LIFT EDITION

BOY'S RELATIVES SUE TO VOID ORDER THAT HE RETURN TO CUBA;
PETITION SEEKS TO PROTECT HIS "CONSTITUTIONAL RIGHTS," ATTORNEY FOR UNCLE SAYS

BYLINE: The Associated Press

SECTION: NEWS, Pg. A3

LENGTH: 358 words

DATELINE: MIAMI


Elian Gonzalez's relatives in Miami went to federal court Wednesday to challenge
the Immigration and Naturalization Service's ruling that the 6-year-old boy must
be returned to his father in Cuba.

Lazaro Gonzalez, Elian's great-uncle, filed the federal lawsuit after Attorney
General Janet Reno declared last week that the boy's status was an immigration
matter, solely in the jurisdiction of federal law.

"It is about protecting Elian's civil and constitutional rights, the same as if
he was any other child," said Spencer Eig, an attorney for the great-uncle.

The lawsuit names as defendants Reno; Doris Meissner, the immigration agency's
commissioner; Robert Wallis, the agency's district director; the Justice
Department; and the immigration service. It accuses the government of violating
Elian's rights to due process of law and asks the judge to prevent the agency
from returning the boy to Cuba before the agency gives him an asylum hearing.

No hearing date was set. The Justice Department and the agency said in a
statement they were prepared to respond quickly and would ask the court "to
expeditiously address this matter."

"It is important for the well-being of Elian Gonzalez that the status of this
6-year-old boy be resolved as quickly as possible," the statement said.

Reno had overruled a decision by a Miami family court judge to delay the boy's
return. But she postponed an Immigration and Naturalization Service deadline to
return the boy to his father to give Elian's American relatives time to
challenge the agency's decision in federal court.

Elian's mother and stepfather were among 11 people who drowned trying to reach
the United States, and the boy was rescued by the Coast Guard after he was found
clinging to an inner tube in the Atlantic.

The agency has said that only the boy's father could represent his son.

Eig said Lazaro Gonzalez was asking the court "not to decide the issues in the
case, not to take custody away from Elian's father, not to decide whether or not
Elian should go back to Cuba, simply to compel the U.S. government to give Elian
afair hearing and his day in court."

LOAD-DATE: January 20, 2000

LANGUAGE: English

GRAPHIC: PHOTO THE ASSOCIATED PRESS Photo - Elian Gonzalez waves at
photographers outside his relatives' home in Miami on Wednesday. Legal experts
say Elian's relatives have no legal standing to speak for him in an immigration
dispute.

                  Copyright 2000 St. Louis Post-Dispatch, Inc.


                              336 of 457 DOCUMENTS

                       St. Louis Post-Dispatch (Missouri)

                 January 22, 2000, Saturday, THREE STAR EDITION

GRANDMOTHERS FLY TO NY, APPEAL FOR CUBAN BOY'S RETURN

BYLINE: The Associated Press

SECTION: NEWS, Pg. 3

LENGTH: 639 words

DATELINE: NEW YORK


* Attorney General Janet Reno considers a request to meet with the women. It is
unclear how long they plan to stay in the United States.

Elian Gonzalez's grandmothers flew to New York from Cuba on Friday to appeal for
his return, saying the boy's late mother will not "rest in peace" until the
6-year-old is back in his homeland.

"Respect the memory of my daughter," said the boy's maternal grandmother, Raquel
Rodriguez.

She and the boy's paternal grandmother, Mariela Quintana, flew with a church
delegation that has supported Elian's return over the objections of Cuban
immigrants and the boy's relatives in Miami.

The women chose to avoid Miami, at least for now, and take their message to the
nation's media capital. It was unclear how long they would stay in the United
States; people who organized the trip said it will be only a few days.

Attorney General Janet Reno and her aides were considering a request that she
meet with the grandmothers, Justice Department spokesman Myron Marlin said. The
boy's relatives in Florida invited the grandmothers to visit.

Elian was found clinging to an inner tube off the coast of Florida on Nov. 25
after the boat on which he was heading for the United States capsized, killing
his mother and 10 other people.

He has been living with relatives in Miami, who say he would have a better life
in the United States. They are challenging a government ruling that he must go
back.

Rodriguez claimed her daughter was coerced to leave Cuba.

"She made that step because she has a person living with her that was very
violent, sometimes very harsh with her, and he pushed her to be in that
situation," Rodriguez said. "I ask and beg those who are interested in helping
us, to do everything possible so that the child will be handed over to us, his
grandmothers, so that my daughter may rest in peace."

The two women, greeted by a small party of customs officials and police, winced
as they endured a whipping wind and 16-degree cold for their short walk into a
terminal at Kennedy Airport.

"I came here to tell you all and to ask you to finish this tragedy that has been
so hard for us as a family, and to ask you that our grandson can return as soon
as possible," Quintana said. "Nobody has a right to make him an American
citizen. He was born in Cuba. He is a Cuban."

Quintana also said that Elian, in telephone conversations with her and with his
father, Juan Miguel Gonzalez, had expressed a desire to return to Cuba. The
boy's Miami relatives claim the boy has said he wants to remain in the United
States.

The Miami relatives' lead attorney, Spencer Eig, said he was not impressed by
the grandmothers' emotional appeal. Eig said the women's information about the
case came almost entirely from Cuba's communist government.

Eig repeated the Miami relatives' invitation to the grandmothers to come to
Miami for a reunion and said his clients would not go to New York to meet with
the women.

"We're concerned that they're being taken advantage of to some degree," Eig
said. "If they got a chance to see how well he is doing, it might relieve all
their anxiety."

The Immigration and Naturalization Service has ordered Elian returned to his
father. But attorneys for the family in Florida have asked a federal judge to
prevent his return before he has an asylum hearing.

A senator from Florida is sponsoring legislation that would allow Elian to have
U.S. citizenship. The bill by Republican Sen. Connie Mack will be filed Monday
and could come up for a vote as soon as Wednesday, said Senate Majority Leader
Trent Lott, R-Miss.

In the House, companion legislation will be introduced by Rep. Bill McCollum,
R-Fla., among others. Majority Leader Rep. Dick Armey, R-Texas, said House GOP
leaders had made no decision on how swiftly to push for passage.

LOAD-DATE: January 22, 2000

LANGUAGE: English

GRAPHIC: PHOTO Color Photo from THE ASSOCIATED PRESS - Mariela Quintana (left)
and Raquel Rodriguez, the grandmothers of 6-year-old Elian Gonzalez, arrive
Friday at Kennedy International Airport in New York. The boy's relatives in
Florida invited the grandmothers to visit Miami for a reunion, but the family's
lawyer says his clients will not go to New York to meet with the women.

                  Copyright 2000 St. Louis Post-Dispatch, Inc.


                              337 of 457 DOCUMENTS

                       St. Louis Post-Dispatch (Missouri)

               January 22, 2000, Saturday, FIVE STAR LIFT EDITION

GRANDMOTHERS FLY TO NY, APPEAL FOR CUBAN BOY'S RETURN

BYLINE: The Associated Press

SECTION: NEWS, Pg. 3

LENGTH: 945 words

DATELINE: NEW YORK


* Attorney General Janet Reno will meet with the women today. It is unclear how
long they plan to stay in the United States.

Elian Gonzalez's grandmothers flew to New York from Cuba on Friday to appeal for
his return, saying the boy's late mother will not "rest in peace" until the
6-year-old is back in his homeland.

"Respect the memory of my daughter," said the boy's maternal grandmother, Raquel
Rodriguez.

She and the boy's paternal grandmother, Mariela Quintana, flew with a church
delegation that has supported Elian's return over the objections of Cuban
immigrants and the boy's relatives in Miami.

Those relatives have invited the grandmothers to visit. But at least for now,
the women have chosen to avoid Miami, where Cuban immigrants staged massive
protests after the Immigration and Naturalization Service said Elian must go
back to Cuba.

Instead, the women took their message to the nation's media capital. Today they
were to meet with Attorney General Janet Reno, who has said Elian belongs with
his father. U.S. officials said the grandmothers requested the meeting and that
President Bill Clinton's administration want s to hear what they have to say.

It was not immediately clear how long the women will stay in the United States;
people who organized the trip said it will be only a few days.

Elian was found clinging to an inner tube off the coast of Florida on Nov. 25
after the boat on which he was heading for the United States capsized, killing
his mother and 10 other people.

He has been living with relatives in Miami, who say he would have a better life
in the United States. They are challenging a government ruling that he must go
back.

"I know that many say that it was Elian's mother's will that the child remain
here," Rodriguez said in Spanish. "I speak for her because I was her mother. I
know what she thought and how she acted."

The mother's boyfriend arranged the journey, and Rodriguez said Elian's mother
went along only because she was forced to by "the man she was with," who she
said was violent and threatened her.

"I ask and beg those who are interested in helping us, to do everything possible
so that the child will be handed over to us, his grandmothers, so that my
daughter may rest in peace," Rodriguez said.

The two women, greeted by a small party of customs officials and police, winced
as they endured a whipping wind and 16-degree cold for th eir short walk into a
terminal at Kennedy Airport.

"I came here to tell you all and to ask you to finish this tragedy that has been
so hard for us as a family, and to ask you that our grandson can return as soon
as possible," Quintana said. "Nobody has a right to make him an American
citizen. He was born in Cuba. He is a Cuban."

Quintana also said that Elian, in telephone conversations with her and with his
father, Juan Miguel Gonzalez, had expressed a desire to return to Cuba. The
boy's Miami relatives claim the boy has said he wants to remain in the United
States.

"We stand by our position," Elian's great-uncle Lazaro Gonzalez said in Miami
after the grandmothers arrived in New York. "Now that they are here in the
United States, I invite them to come to my house so they can see the child - to
see that we are not hiding him.

"We never talk bad about the family in Cuba to the child. Not about the
grandparents and not about the father."

The Miami relatives' lead attorney, Spencer Eig, said he was not impressed by
the grandmothers' emotional appeal. Eig said the women's information about the
case came almost entirely from Cuba's communist government.

"We're concerned that they're being taken advantage of to some degree," Eig
said. "If they got a chance to see how well he is doing, it might relieve all
their anxiety."

The Immigration and Naturalization Service has ordered Elian returned to his
father. But attorneys for the family in Florida have asked a federal judge to
prevent his return before he has an asylum hearing.

Most legal experts predict the federal courts will uphold the INS decision to
return Elian. So an act of Congress granting Elian citizenship or permanent
residency is the most likely avenue for keeping the boy in the country, because
it would remove him from the jurisdiction of immigration authorities.

A senator from Florida is sponsoring legislation that would give Elian U.S.
citizenship. The bill by Republican Sen. Connie Mack will be filed Monday and
could come up for a vote as soon as Wednesday, said Senate Majority Leader Trent
Lott, R-Miss.

"It will be a custody issue, not an immigration issue, and that's the only
intent," Lott said during an interview for "John McLaughlin's One on One" to be
aired Sunday on PBS. "It would not allow the administration to blow back and
forth depending on what (Cuban President Fidel) Castro says, but it would allow
the courts to determine custody."

In the House, companion legislation will be introduced by Rep. Bill McCollum,
R-Fla., among others. Majority Leader Rep. Dick Armey, R-Texas, said House GOP
leaders had made no decision on how swiftly to push for passage.

Also Friday, the federal judge who was to hear the suit by the boy's Miami
relatives withdrew from the case.

Judge James Lawrence King's son, Miami-Dade County Judge Lawrence B. King, once
hired Armando Gutierrez - a man now working as spokesman for the boy's relatives
in Miami - to help in his re-election bid. The federal judge also has a daughter
who is a federal prosecutor in Miami.

The case was reassigned to Judge William M. Hoeveler, who presided over the
trial of Manuel Noriega and declared the ex-Panamanian dictator a prisoner of
war.

LOAD-DATE: January 22, 2000

LANGUAGE: English

GRAPHIC: PHOTO Color Photo from THE ASSOCIATED PRESS - Mariela Quintana (left)
and Raquel Rodriguez, the grandmothers of 6-year-old Elian Gonzalez, meet the
press Friday in New York. The boy's relatives have invited them to visit Miami
for a reunion.

                  Copyright 2000 St. Louis Post-Dispatch, Inc.


                              338 of 457 DOCUMENTS

                       St. Louis Post-Dispatch (Missouri)

               January 25, 2000, Tuesday, FIVE STAR LIFT EDITION

CUBAN BOY'S GRANDMOTHERS LEAVE MIAMI WITHOUT VISIT;
MEETING SITE IS DISPUTED; LOTT PUTS IN BILL TO MAKE 6-YEAR-OLD U.S. CITIZEN

BYLINE: The Associated Press

SECTION: NEWS, Pg. A3

LENGTH: 365 words

DATELINE: MIAMI


Elian Gonzalez's grandmothers flew to Miami on Monday in the hope of meeting
with their 6-year-old grandson before they return to Cuba. But the women left
town without seeing the boy because of a dispute over the site of the
get-together.

The boy's maternal grandmother, Raquel Rodriguez, and paternal grandmother,
Mariela Quintana, rejected a dinner invitation for Monday night at the home of
Elian's relatives in Miami, who insisted that they meet there.

The grandmothers wanted to meet privately with Elian at a neutral site. After
flying in from New York, they spent about five hours at the airport before
departing for Washington.

The two women arrived late Monday in Washington, where they were scheduled to
meet today with several members of Congress. The Immigration and Naturalization
Service has ruled that Elian must be sent back to Cuba to live with his father,
but the Miami family is suing in federal court to block the boy's return. Elian
has been living with the family since his rescue off the Florida coast on
Thanksgiving.

And on Monday, the first day of the new congressional session, Senate Majority
Leader Trent Lott, R-Miss., and Florida lawmakers introduced a bill to give
Elian U.S. citizenship, which would free him from Immigration and Naturalization
Service jurisdiction.

On NBC's "Today" show, Rodriguez asked Congress not to give the boy U.S.
citizenship and to let him return to Cuba.

"It will be more painful if he gets the citizenship," she said, speaking in
Spanish through an interpreter. "I'm asking the congresspeople and people of the
United States that have supported us to stop all this. Please, don't make us
suffer any longer."

Although they said they had not spoken to the boy in five days, Quintana said
Elian had told her over the telephone that "he's crazy to go back to Cuba."

"He misses everything there. His school, his classmates, everybody - his
father's love. To be able to hug and kiss his father. He tells us every day,"
she said.

Rodriguez denied that her daughter wanted to come to the United States with
Elian. She said she was pressured to make the trip by her boyfriend, "a very
violent person."

LOAD-DATE: January 25, 2000

LANGUAGE: English

GRAPHIC: PHOTO THE ASSOCIATED PRESS Photo - Raquel Rodriguez arrives Monday at
Teterboro (N.J.) Airport for a flight to Miami, where she failed to meet her
grandson Elian Gonzalez. Rodriguez and another grandmother seek to return the
boy to Cuba.

                  Copyright 2000 St. Louis Post-Dispatch, Inc.


                              339 of 457 DOCUMENTS

                       St. Louis Post-Dispatch (Missouri)

                 January 25, 2000, Tuesday, THREE STAR EDITION

CUBAN BOY'S GRANDMOTHERS HOPE TO SEE HIM IN MIAMI;
MEETING SITE IS DISPUTED; LOTT PUTS IN BILL TO MAKE 6-YEAR-OLD A U.S. CITIZEN

BYLINE: The Associated Press

SECTION: NEWS, Pg. A3

LENGTH: 344 words

DATELINE: MIAMI


Elian Gonzalez's grandmothers flew from New York to Miami on Monday in the hope
of meeting with their 6-year-old grandson before they return to Cuba. But the
site of the get-together was in dispute.

The boy's maternal grandmother, Raquel Rodriguez, and paternal grandmother,
Mariela Quintana, were invited to dinner Monday at the home of Elian's relatives
in Miami, who insisted that the meeting take place there. But federal officials
said the grandmothers were hoping to meet privately with Elian at a neutral
site.

The Miami relatives have been caring for Elian since he was found clinging to an
inner tube off the Florida coast on Thanksgiving. His mother and 10 other Cubans
died in their attempt to reach the United States.

The Immigration and Naturalization Service has ruled that Elian must be sent
back to Cuba to live with his father, but the Miami family is suing in federal
court to block the boy's return.

And on Monday, the first day of the new congressional session, Senate Majority
Leader Trent Lott, R-Miss., and Florida lawmakers introduced a bill to give
Elian U.S. citizenship, which would free him from Immigration and Naturalization
Service jurisdiction.

On NBC's "Today" show, Rodriguez asked Congress not to give the boy U.S.
citizenship and to let him return to Cuba.

"It will be more painful if he gets the citizenship," she said, speaking in
Spanish through an interpreter. "I'm asking the congresspeople and people of the
United States that have supported us to stop all this. Please, don't make us
suffer any longer."

Although they said they had not spoken to the boy in five days, Quintana said
Elian had told her over the telephone that "he's crazy to go back to Cuba."

"He misses everything there. His school, his classmates, everybody - his
father's love. To be able to hug and kiss his father. He tells us every day,"
she said.

Rodriguez denied that her daughter wanted to come to the United States with
Elian. She said she was pressured to make the trip by her boyfriend, "a very
violent person."

LOAD-DATE: January 25, 2000

LANGUAGE: English

GRAPHIC: PHOTO THE ASSOCIATED PRESS Photo - Raquel Rodriguez arrives Monday at
Teterboro (N.J.) Airport for a flight to Miami, where she hopes to meet her
grandson Elian Gonzalez. Rodriguez and another grandmother seek to return the
boy to Cuba.

                  Copyright 2000 St. Louis Post-Dispatch, Inc.


                              340 of 457 DOCUMENTS

                       St. Louis Post-Dispatch (Missouri)

               January 29, 2000, Saturday, FIVE STAR LIFT EDITION

ELIAN'S DILEMMA

SECTION: EDITORIAL, Pg. 3

LENGTH: 374 words



CUBA

TODAY the grandmothers of Elian Gonzalez are expected to fly back to Cuba. They
are returning home without their 6-year-old grandson, but with the bitter
knowledge that this seemingly intractable dispute over Elian won't be resolved
quickly or amicably.

Instead of smoothing tensions, the spectacle surrounding the grandmothers' visit
only seemed to intensify them. It was shameful that Raquel Rodriguez and Mariela
Quintana had to endure negotiations as hostile and grueling as the Northern
Irish peace talks for the simple privilege of seeing their own flesh and blood.
If there were any hope, however faint, that Juan Miguel Gonzalez, Elian's
father, might yet come to the United States, it surely was permanently dispelled
by this circus. No wonder Mr. Gonzalez is reluctant.

While the grandmothers' visit may have only hardened the sentiments of
anti-Castro Cuban-Americans in Florida, it seems to have put the brakes on the
ill-considered move in Congress to award Elian U.S. citizenship -- an overtly
political maneuver to strip the Immigration and Naturalization Service of
jurisdiction in the case.

However cute Elian is, he is no Mother Teresa, Winston Churchill or Raoul
Wallenberg -- other recipients of this honor. This honor would be debased if
granted for purely political motives. The best thing Congress can do is to back
off. Way off.

Elian's distant relatives in Florida are playing a game all too familiar in
custody disputes. The constant barrage of lawsuits, media hoopla and political
pressure is a way to buy time. The more time elapses, the more Americanized
Elian becomes, the more they will argue he would be damaged by going home to his
father.

Attorney General Janet Reno should resist this ploy and allow Elian to return to
his waiting father. That's an outcome that respects international law, federal
law and, yes, even Florida law. Ironically, while the nation's eyes watched
Elian, on Thursday the Florida Supreme Court once again reaffirmed the
constitutional rights of parents to raise their children without interference in
a case involving grandparents' visitation rights.

The weight of the law falls on the side of sending Elian home. So do the love
and concern of a father.

LOAD-DATE: January 29, 2000

LANGUAGE: English

GRAPHIC: GRAPHIC Graphic / Illustration by TIM BRINTON - (of the head of Elian
Gonzalez on the top of a wishbone that is being pulled apart.)

                  Copyright 2000 St. Louis Post-Dispatch, Inc.


                              341 of 457 DOCUMENTS

                       St. Louis Post-Dispatch (Missouri)

                January 31, 2000, Monday, FIVE STAR LIFT EDITION

CUBAN BOY'S GRANDMOTHERS CALL TRIP "A STEP FORWARD," RETURN HOME WITHOUT HIM;
WOMEN ASK AMERICANS WHO SUPPORT THEIR CAUSE TO KEEP HELP COMING

BYLINE: The Associated Press

SECTION: NEWS, Pg. A9

LENGTH: 469 words

DATELINE: CHANTILLY, VA.


Elian Gonzalez's grandmothers flew back to Cuba on Sunday without the 6-year-old
boy at the center of an international custody battle.

"He will never be happy because he grew up in Cuba," Mariela Quintana said
through a translator before boarding a private plane. "He is a Cuban boy. He has
a father. He has four grandparents and an entire family back there."

Quintana and Elian's maternal grandmother, Raquel Rodriguez, departed Dulles
International Airport in suburban Washington and arrived in Havana to a
government-sponsored welcome in midafternoon.

Elian's grandmothers spent more than a week in the United States campaigning for
the boy's return to his father in Cuba.

They lobbied hard but unsuccessfully in Congress and elsewhere for permission to
take Elian with them on Sunday's flight.

"We think we have reached part of what we planned. We think we have a step
forward, but still my grandson is here," said Rodriguez, also speaking through a
translator. "I would like to thank the American people and the Cuban-Americans
who are here and who have helped us. . . . We would like to remind them to keep
helping us, because Elian is still here. We would like to make a plea to keep
helping us."

They pressed their case at a meeting with Attorney General Janet Reno and Doris
Meissner, commissioner of the Immigration and Naturalization Service, and in
Capitol Hill visits where they spoke out against congressional efforts to bestow
U.S. citizenship on Elian.

The two women visited the boy Wednesday in Miami Beach, Fla., later describing
him as emotionally drained and incommunicative.

Elian's Miami relatives spoke to lawmakers, too, urging support for the
citizenship bill and saying the youngster did not want to go back.

The boy's fate has been uncertain since he was found clinging to an inner tube
Nov. 25 off the Florida coast.

His mother and 10 others traveling with him drowned during an effort to leave
Cuba.

The immigration service has ruled Elian should be returned to his father.

But its order has not been carried out because the government agreed to wait
until a federal court considers a challenge filed by Miami relatives now caring
for the boy.

U.S. District Judge William Hoeveler will hear arguments Feb. 22 on whether the
relatives' suit should be dismissed.

In an attempt to block Elian's return to Cuba, Rep. Dan Burton subpoenaed Elian
to appear before the House Government Reform Committee.

Burton, R-Ind., has said it is unlikely Elian actually would appear before the
committee, but he has not ruled it out.

The Justice Department contends that if Elian is not returned to Cuba, it could
hurt attempts to retrieve American children taken out of the country by
foreign-born parents against the wishes of the children's American parents.

LOAD-DATE: January 31, 2000

LANGUAGE: English

GRAPHIC: PHOTO Color Photo by THE ASSOCIATED PRESS - Cubans cheer Raquel
Rodriguez (in car, left) and Mariela Quintana in Havana Sunday after their trip
to the United States, where the women pleaded for the return of their grandson,
Elian Gonzalez.

                  Copyright 2000 St. Louis Post-Dispatch, Inc.


                              342 of 457 DOCUMENTS

                       St. Louis Post-Dispatch (Missouri)

               February 5, 2000, Saturday, FIVE STAR LIFT EDITION

LETTERS TO THE EDITOR: DECIDING THE FUTURE OF ELIAN GONZALEZ

SECTION: EDITORIAL, Pg. 32

LENGTH: 786 words


I am amazed at the appalling ignorance of the Post-Dispatch on the Elian
Gonzalez matter. The Jan. 29 editorial excoriated the extended family of Elian
and American politicians for playing politics. Everybody gets the blame except
the real political ringmaster, Fidel Castro.

Are you so naive as to assume that Elian's grandmothers came to the United
States of their own will? You neglected to mention the reaction of Sister Jeanne
O'Laughlin (no right-winger) to the obvious fear and pressure that the
grandmothers conveyed in their conversations.

Having conversed with relatives of my own in East Germany before and after the
fall of communism, I have personally experienced the fear of those who live in a
communist society where their neighbors feel compelled to spy on them. So,
naturally, one would expect Elian's father and his Cuban relatives to say
nothing contrary to what Castro would have them say.

I would have expected a little more sophistication from a major American
newspaper as to the nature of communist societies. Before you impugn the motives
of Elian's extended family in Miami, perhaps you should try to understand why so
many Cubans like Elian's mother risked their lives to live in a land from which
you would so quickly expel her son.

Matthew Heise

Clayton

===

I have three comments relating to the Elian Gonzalez affair.

(1) The "family values" constituency in our Congress and the same people who
scoffed at Hillary Clinton and her book, "It Takes a Village," now believe it
would be in Elian's best interests if he were to be raised by great-aunts,
uncles, second, third and fourth cousins in a foreign land rather than by his
father in his native land.

(2) I am very sorry that Elian's mother sacrificed her life in an ill-fated
attempt to leave Cuba. However, if a poor, disenfranchised woman in this country
took her 6-year-old child aboard a dilapidated boat on a treacherous 90-mile
journey over the high seas, she would be vilified and accused of endangering the
life of her child, not elevated to sainthood.

(3) If this child were in Montana with a handful of electoral votes instead of
Florida with its significant number of electoral votes and a highly vocal
lobbying group, poor Elian's fate would not get a second look in Washington.

Cynical, political maneuvering is driving this effort. Is it any wonder that
more and more people are becoming disengaged from and totally disgusted with the
political process in this country?

Rosalie M. Laune

New Haven, Mo.

===

Elian's father should be required to come to this country to appeal, in person,
before our courts, impartial lawyers and Elian's guardians to prove his
intentions regarding his son's custody.

If he is unable or unwilling to come to this country, we may safely conclude
either that he is content with his son's remaining here or that the Castro
regime refuses to allow him the most basic human rights of free travel in order
to demonstrate his desire for his son's return.

This approach would remove a propaganda issue from Castro and would pressure him
to allow his citizens greater human rights. As for the boy, his father's
appearance in our country would allow a family court, where this case should be
resolved, and the American people, through a free med ia, to understand whether
a return to Dad is in the boy's best interests.

Robert Gravlin

Florissant

===

What in the world has this country come to when we allow someone to brainwash a
6-year-old child, deprive him of his father, even prevent him from talking with
his father and letting a nun decide in a 1 1/2-hour meeting that the boy should
not go back to his father?

The great big United States of America is now to the point where we dictate
parental preference. For shame, our politicians! For shame, our legal system!
For shame, the relatives in Miami who have had two months to brainwash the boy!
For shame the nun who can make such a decision! For shame the United States that
feels it can dictate to the rest of the World!

Richard E. Browning

Fenton

===

Why don't Elian Gonzalez' feelings matter? His mother risked their lives to live
in a free country. She wanted her little boy to have a chance to make his own
personal choices. She wanted him to be free. Elian deserves a choice. After all,
what does freedom mean?

We focus on what is written in the law and what is best for our country.  Let us
consider what is most beneficial to this child's life. Our decision can affect
his life forever.

Elian should get to live his life where he wants to, not be forced by the
authorities.

Lauryn Beasley, age 13

Glencoe

LOAD-DATE: February 5, 2000

LANGUAGE: English

GRAPHIC: GRAPHIC Graphic / Illustration by JEFF DANZIGER / LOS ANGELES TIME
SYNDICATE - Too Late, Grandma...
 (Elian is playing on a computer indifferent to his grandmothers' pleas to
return)

                  Copyright 2000 St. Louis Post-Dispatch, Inc.


                              343 of 457 DOCUMENTS

                       St. Louis Post-Dispatch (Missouri)

              February 9, 2000, Wednesday, FIVE STAR LIFT EDITION

HAIDER AND HIS FREEDOM PARTY

SECTION: EDITORIAL, Pg. B6

LENGTH: 513 words



AUSTRIA

JOERG HAIDER is not Adolf Hitler, and today's Austria is not the Austria of 1938
and the Anschluss. But at the dawning of a new century, Europeans in particular
have a moral responsibility to shun the xenophobic attitudes and fascist world
view that caused such devastation in the past century.

It is encouraging to see thousands of Austrians take to the streets to protest
the inclusion of Mr. Haider's Freedom Party into the Austrian government. It is
imperative that the United States and the European Union support that protest
with strong diplomatic concern.

Democracy is not merely the practice of free and fair elections. It is also
dedication to democratic values, which are in sharp conflict with the racism,
xenophobia and fondness for fascism expressed by Mr. Haider. Unfortunately,
Austria still harbors more than an undercurrent of racism, a persistent echo of
a Nazi past with which it has never fully come to terms. According to a 1997
poll, 42 percent of Austrians admit to being "openly racist" or "somewhat
racist." These are the prejudices that Mr. Haider and his party stoke.

In the early '90s, Austria underwent a boom in immigration. In five years, the
number of immigrants more than doubled from 300,000 to 690,000, mostly from the
collapsing Yugoslavia -- Slovenes, Croatians and Bosnians. By 1994, though,
immigrants had stabilized to about 9 percent of Austria's 8 million population.
The second largest immigrant group is Turkish.

On the surface, Mr. Haider's popularity has much in common with the burst of
far-right, anti-immigrant fervor that plagued eastern Germany after
reunification. But there is one profound difference. The anti-immigrant
sentiment exploded in a context of massive unemployment and economic crisis in
eastern Germany. It was almost a stereotypical example of scapegoating.

In stark contrast, the success of Mr. Haider's Freedom Party comes at a time of
broad Austrian prosperity. On a per capita basis, Austria is the seventh richest
country in the world. Its unemployment rate is about half that of Italy and
France. The success of the Freedom Party challenges one of the West's most
cherished axioms: that economic well-being brings tolerance and the appreciation
of other democratic values.

The EU's strong reaction to Mr. Haider results from a realization that far-right
parties, espousing a virulent anti-immigrant sentiment, are not unique to
Austria. They exist in many European countries, although not always with the
same patina of respectability. A hard-nosed response to the Freedom Party may
keep its success from infecting others.

European countries are changing. They are no longer ethnically homogeneous
cultures -- as a ride on London's tube or Paris' Metro illustrates. The citizens
of EU nations are free to work in any member country. Turks, North Africans and
Africans, desperate for jobs, regularly head to Europe. If Europe, with its
shrinking birth rate and aging population, is to maintain its prosperity, it
will need to welcome immigrants, not rail against them.

LOAD-DATE: February 9, 2000

LANGUAGE: English

                  Copyright 2000 St. Louis Post-Dispatch, Inc.


                              344 of 457 DOCUMENTS

                       St. Louis Post-Dispatch (Missouri)

               February 13, 2000, Sunday, FIVE STAR LIFT EDITION

IMMIGRATION RULE MEANS COUPLE WILL BE APART ON VALENTINE'S DAY

BYLINE: Bill McClellan

SECTION: METRO, Pg. C1

LENGTH: 1010 words


Abdel Ferhi was born 38 years ago in the Tunisian village of Magel-Bel-Abbes. It
had neither running water nor electricity. Its people were farmers, but the land
was barren. Life was hard.

Abdel was one of 11 children. He took his first tentative step toward prosperity
when he did well enough in the village school to be selected to attend middle
school. That meant leaving the village for a nearby town.

Middle school led to high school. High school led to college, and when Abdel was
a 21-year-old college student, he showed enough promise that he was selected to
continue his education in the United States. He came to Washington University to
study engineering.

Agnieszka Gozdowski left Poland the same year that Abdel came to St. Louis. She
was 21, a newlywed and a recent college graduate. She had majored in interior
design. But opportunities were scarce in Poland, and after first traveling to
Italy, and then toying with the idea of emigrating to Australia, the couple
decided to start a new life in America. They came to St. Louis.

Their marriage did not last. They were divorced in 1994.

By the way, Agnieszka never did become an interior designer. Instead, she became
a waitress. She worked at Bar Italia in the Central West End. It was there that
she met Abdel.

He had earned his undergraduate degree, and his master's degree, and he was
supporting himself as a teaching assistant while working toward his doctorate.
He was, truth be told, in no great rush to get that degree.

That's because of his visa. He could remain in this country as long as he was
attending school. Once he completed his education, he would have to go back to
Tunisia. He feared there would be no job for him there. He could, of course,
apply to return to the United States, but he would have to wait two years before
he could make an application.

So when Abdel and Agnieszka began dating -- and then when they fell in love --
his future was a series of questions without answers. Would he find work in
Tunisia? Would he ever be allowed to return to this country?

But you can't be hostage to an uncertain future. In April of 1996, Agnieszka and
Abdel were married. They were each 34. In September of 1997, their daughter,
Malayka, was born. In January of 1998, Abdel received his doctorate in
structural engineering. He would have to leave the country in 18 months.

He worked for 18 months, and then he went back to Tunisia. He registered with
the government there, and got the bad news. The economy was not in good shape.
There were no jobs.

One of Abdel's brothers has a house in the town of Gafsa. It's about half an
hour from their home village, and while the house has no heat, it has
electricity. The brother is working in Egypt, and so Abdel was given the use of
the house.

Agnieszka and Malayka, still living in the U.S., went to visit once Abdel was
settled. Agnieszka agreed to leave Malayka there for several months. After all,
the 2-year-old is not yet in school. Agnieszka will be visiting again in April,
and she will bring her daughter home with her.

Home right now is a room in a friend's house. Agnieszka works as a massage
therapist, but all of her money is earmarked toward plane tickets for her and
Malayka. That's the only way to keep alive a long-distance relationship. E-mail
helps. Abdel has a computer, but no phone line. So he goes to an Internet shop
in Gafsa and corresponds with his wife.

Mostly, though, it is a relationship of waiting. Waiting for the two years to
pass so Abdel can apply to return to the United States.

It seemed strange to me that we would send a well-educated engineer into an
exile of unemployment.

I called Chester Moyer who heads the St. Louis office of the Immigration and
Naturalization Service. Moyer explained that the Agency for International
Development is the organization in charge of programs for foreign students.
Moyer said that the general idea is to give a student an education here, and
then that student can use his training to help his home country. After two
years, it is thought that he has repaid his country for sponsoring him, and then
he is eligible to apply for readmission to the U.S.

Fine. But what about a situation in which the student can't find work in his
home country? Maybe the economy is too bad. Maybe the student's skills are too
specialized. Why make that student vegetate for two years?

Moyer said there are options. The student could apply for a hardship exemption,
most often a medical hardship. In the event that the student cannot find work,
the student can ask his government for a Certificate of No Objection, in which
the government releases him from the two-year obligation.

It sounded perfect. But then I talked to George Newman, one of the region's top
immigration lawyers.

"Everything you were told is true, but . . ." he said. He pointed out that a
person in Abdel's situation has to deal with two governments, and government
bureaucracies seldom move swiftly. He showed me the latest statistics on "waiver
reviews" that the State Department had given the American Immigration Trial
Lawyers Association.

For an "Exceptional Hardship waiver," for instance, the government's review will
be completed eight months from the date the last required document is received.

"You see the problem," Newman said. "In this case, Abdel has already been over
there for five months. By the time he deals with both governments and gets all
the necessary documents together, what's the purpose? Even a lawyer who hasn't
eaten in three days wouldn't take this case. At least, shouldn't take the case.
You'd be wasting their money."

On top of that, there's no guarantee that the waiver would be approved. In the
worst-case scenario, you'd lose an expensive fight and in the process alienate
somebody and jeopardize your chances of getting readmitted. No, the best thing
to do is wait it out.

And so this Valentine's Day will see Abdel unemployed and far from his wife, but
only half an hour from the village he left so long ago.

LOAD-DATE: February 13, 2000

LANGUAGE: English

TYPE: Bill McClellan Column

                  Copyright 2000 St. Louis Post-Dispatch, Inc.


                              345 of 457 DOCUMENTS

                       St. Louis Post-Dispatch (Missouri)

              February 17, 2000, Thursday, FIVE STAR LIFT EDITION

FAIR WILL EXPLAIN AREA'S SERVICES TO IMMIGRANTS AND REFUGEES;
REAL ESTATE FIRMS, BANKS, CITY AGENCIES WILL SHOW THEIR WARES

SECTION: METRO, Pg. B2

LENGTH: 276 words


Refugees and other newcomers to the United States can learn about the services
and opportunities in St. Louis at a daylong fair next month.

City agencies, banks and real estate companies are among the groups that will
explain what they can do for refugees and immigrants. Sponsors of the first
Better City Living Fair are the International Institute of St. Louis, the St.
Louis Association of Community Organizations and the city.

"This has to do with helping new Americans live better in our neighborho ods,"
said Ann M. Rynearson of the International Institute. "It will offer a
bird's-eye view of the city - all the stuff the rest of us take for granted,
like police service or parks, trash collection or dealing with a problem
property."

The fair will be held from 10 a.m. to 4 p.m. March 18 at Carpenters Hall, 1401
Hampton Avenue. The federal Office of Refugee Resettlement is helping to pay for
the fair, Rynearson said.

The institute will provide interpreters to help people talk with local
representatives.

The fair is open to anyone who has come here from another country but primarily
is geared toward refugees. People are considered refugees if the U.S. government
grants them residence because of conditions in their own countries. Usually,
that means war.

In the past five years, the International Institute has settled about 6,000
refugees, most of them from Bosnia. The institute estimates that about 30,000
refugees and family members live in the St. Louis area.

Organizations or businesses that want to participate in the fair may call Karen
Heitzman of the Association of Community Organizations at 314-533-9104.

LOAD-DATE: February 17, 2000

LANGUAGE: English

                  Copyright 2000 St. Louis Post-Dispatch, Inc.


                              346 of 457 DOCUMENTS

                       St. Louis Post-Dispatch (Missouri)

               February 25, 2000, Friday, FIVE STAR LIFT EDITION

ALBANIAN COUPLE WHO FLED COMMUNISM TAKE U.S. CITIZENSHIP OATH WITH 488 OTHERS;
FAMILY SAVES UP SO THAT DAUGHTERS CAN GO TO COLLEGE;
NUMBER IS A RECORD IN ST. LOUIS

BYLINE: Tim Bryant; Of The Post-Dispatch

SECTION: METRO, Pg. B1

LENGTH: 489 words


Nine years ago, Vangjel Marko and his wife, Eda Marko, fled their native
Albania, spent some time in Greece then moved to St. Louis, where they have
relatives.

On Thursday, they stood together and took the oath of allegiance as naturalized
U.S. citizens. Afterward, their younger daughter played nearby as they smiled
broadly and displayed their citizenship certificates, which they plan to frame.

"This is a country of opportunities," Vangjel Marko said. "We came, broke, from
Albania. Now we live in Crestwood, a nice area.

"This is a good country if you like to work and have a family."

The Markos were among nearly 500 people sworn in as new citizens in a
naturalization ceremony at Harris-Stowe State College. Camera bulbs flashed and
camcorders whirred as U.S. District Judge Catherine Perry administered the oath.

Afterward, she congratulated "my fellow Americans" and reminded them they are
now eligible to vote, hold public office and serve on juries.

The 490 citizens taking the oath was a record number in St. Louis, said Alan
Johnson of the Immigration and Naturalization Service. Officials usually conduct
naturalization ceremonies at the federal courthouse, but the large number
Thursday -- five times normal -- required an auditorium.

Because of the unseasonably warm temperature outside -- at the time it was 78 --
the auditorium was sweltering. Many in the overflow crowd used the ceremony's
program to fan themselves.

Perry moved the program along briskly.

"All right," she said as everyone stood to take the citizenship oath. "Ready?
OK."

In two minutes it was over. The hundreds of people who had come to St.  Louis
from 35 countries were citizens.

Everyone applauded.

The Markos came to St. Louis because of Vangjel Marko's grandfather, Andrew
Liakatas, who fled Albania during World War II and wound up as a waiter in St.
Louis. Because of Albania's repressive government, Liakatas could not see his
wife and daughter for 40 years, Marko said.

Finally, nearly a decade ago, Liakatas -- revered in his family -- was able to
return to Albania to get his wife and daughter and bring them to St. Louis. He
died in 1995.

Marko said he and his wife, unhappy with the Communist government of Albania,
fled the country by simply walking across the border into Greece. While in
Greece, their older daughter, Areti, was born.

Now that her parents are U.S. citizens, they may apply to get citizenship for
the girl, now 6. The Markos' other daughter, Melissa, 4, already is a citizen
because she was born in the United States.

Vangjel Marko works at a pasta factory. Eda Marko also has a factory job sewing
draperies and quilts. Vangjel Marko said he works 60 to 70 hours a week,
including all the overtime he can get, to earn as much money as possible.

"One reason we came here is for a better education," he said. "We are saving to
pay for college for our daughters."

LOAD-DATE: February 25, 2000

LANGUAGE: English

GRAPHIC: PHOTO Color Photo by JAMIE RECTOR / POST-DISPATCH - Melissa Marko, 4,
looks up at her parents, Vangjel (left) and Eda Marko, as they take the oath of
allegiance Thursday as naturalized U.S. citizens at an auditorium at
Harris-Stowe State College. The Markos escaped from Albania, traveling to Greece
before heading to St. Louis.

                  Copyright 2000 St. Louis Post-Dispatch, Inc.


                              347 of 457 DOCUMENTS

                       St. Louis Post-Dispatch (Missouri)

                 February 28, 2000, Monday, THREE STAR EDITION

IMMIGRATION SERVICE CENTRALIZES RECORD-KEEPING WITH A NEW OFFICE IN A CAVE;
EAST OF KANSAS CITY

BYLINE: The Associated Press

SECTION: METRO, Pg. B3

LENGTH: 307 words

DATELINE: LEE'S SUMMIT, MO.


The Immigration and Naturalization Service has rented a huge underground cave to
store its records in a central place in an effort to speed up service to
immigrants.

The 200,000-square-foot underground office will bring together records from 85
offices from around the country.

The agency has experienced an explosion of people applying for citizenship in
the past decade, handling applications from 6.4 million people between 1993 and
1999. That number represented more applications than in the previous 37 years
combined.

Consolidating the records should speed renewal of green cards from a year to 90
days and completion of naturalization records from a year to six months,
officials said. Green cards allow people who are not citizens to live and work
in the United States.

About 400 people will work in the new office, leased in one of the numerous
underground limestone caves that dot the area east of Kansas City that provide
natural cooling and are home to many businesses. Lee's Summit is just southeast
of Kansas City.

Using a bar code system, staff members will be able to retrieve files from the
facility in Lee's Summit and send them to any office in the nation within 24
hours. Paper files also will be entered into a computer system at the records
center.

A nationwide search for the records center settled on Lee's Summit, said Scott
Hastings, who is the director of records for the agency. About 200 local and
federal officials gathered at the facility Friday for a dedication ceremony.

"The old decentralized system became so inefficient that records weren't just
our weakest link, they were far too often the missing link," said Immigration
and Naturalization Service Commissioner Doris Meissner. "For legal immigrants
and U.S. citizens applying for benefits, this meant needless detours and
delays."

LOAD-DATE: February 28, 2000

LANGUAGE: English

                  Copyright 2000 St. Louis Post-Dispatch, Inc.


                              348 of 457 DOCUMENTS

                       St. Louis Post-Dispatch (Missouri)

                March 8, 2000, Wednesday, FIVE STAR LIFT EDITION

SENATORS GRILL IMMIGRATION SERVICE CHIEF ON BORDER AGENTS;
THEY WANT TO KNOW WHY ONLY 369 WERE HIRED WHEN 1,000 WERE AUTHORIZED

BYLINE: The Associated Press

SECTION: NEWS, Pg. A5

LENGTH: 271 words

DATELINE: WASHINGTON


Senators chided the Immigration and Naturalization Service chief Tuesday for
falling short of Congress' request to hire 1,000 new Border Patrol agents last
year - and only seeking money for 430 more next year.

"What gives? Why can't we get some people employed?" Sen. Ernest Hollings,
D-S.C., asked INS Commissioner Doris Meissner, who oversees the Border Patrol.

The patrol added 369 agents in the fiscal year that ended Sept. 30. All new
agents were assigned to the Southwest border with Mexico, where 92 percent of
all border agents work.

Lawmakers have expressed heightened concern about border security since the
arrest Dec. 14 of an Algerian man in Port Angeles, Wash., who allegedly was
carrying bomb-making materials.

Meissner said hiring more agents is a "major effort of very high priority" that
faltered last year because of a tight job market. Meissner said the Border
Patrol has broadened its pool of applicants by recruiting heavily along the
border with Mexico and making it easier for Spanish- speaking applicants to
qualify.

She said her agency would do its best to meet the congressional requirements.
"We did fall behind last year, and we need to make it up," she said.

Sen. Judd Gregg, R-N.H., the chairman of the Senate Appropriations subc ommittee
responsible for the agency's budget, warned that he might seek cuts in the
Border Patrol's administrative budget if the agency fails to meet congressional
hiring goals.

"We do have the final say in this exercise," Gregg said. "The fact is that this
administration has flouted the Congress' efforts to beef up the Border Patrol."



LOAD-DATE: March 8, 2000

LANGUAGE: English

                  Copyright 2000 St. Louis Post-Dispatch, Inc.


                              349 of 457 DOCUMENTS

                       St. Louis Post-Dispatch (Missouri)

                 March 10, 2000, Friday, FIVE STAR LIFT EDITION

CUBAN BOY MAY BE ALLOWED TO SEEK ASYLUM;
JUDGE'S HINT APPARENTLY SHOCKS FEDERAL OFFICIAL

BYLINE: From News Services

SECTION: NEWS, Pg. A5

LENGTH: 433 words

DATELINE: MIAMI


Elian Gonzalez's twisting custody saga has produced no shortage of surprises,
but a judge hinted Thursday that a stunning one may be on its way: The
6-year-old might be given permission to make his own application for asylum in
the United States.

Federal District Court Judge K. Michael Moore did not make an immediate ruling
after a hearing that focused on whether the boy's Miami relatives have grounds
to seek asylum for him.

But in intense questioning, the judge suggested that he may not agree with
long-established cultural norms that give parents the right to speak for their
young children and may let Elian make his own application, over the objections
of his father in Cuba.

"Any alien physically present in the United States . . . may apply for asylum,"
Moore said, reading from federal statutes. "Where does it say six or under" is
excluded?

A shocked Edwin Kneedler, the deputy solicitor general of the United States and
lead attorney representing the Immigration and Naturalization Service, agreed
that "anyone of any age can apply" for asylum.

A 6-year-old, however, would be "typically unable to express a fear of
persecution," the basic grounds for granting of asylum, he said, and presumably
unable to grasp the concepts involved in making an appeal.

U.S. cultural and legal norms, and in fact those across the world, give parents
the right to speak for their young children and make "life-determining
decisions," Kneedler told the judge, and the boy's father, Juan Miguel Gonzalez,
clearly appears to be a "legally competent adequate parent."

But Barbara Lagoa, an attorney for Elian's great-uncle Lazaro Gonzalez, insisted
that "A child's right to seek asylum independent of his parents is
well-established."

"Whether the boy can speak for himself has never been evaluated," said Linda
Osberg-Braun, another family attorney.

The boy's fate has been debated since November, when he was found clinging to an
inner tube off Florida. His mother and 10 others drowned when their boat
capsized during an attempt to reach the United States.

In early January, the INS ordered that Elian be returned to his father, a
decision backed by President Bill Clinton and Attorney General Janet Reno. The
order was put on hold pending the court fight.

In a related development Thursday, Elian's father disclosed that he has hired a
high-powered Washington attorney, Gregory Craig, who represented Clinton in his
impeachment trial.

And in an about-face from previous statements, Gonzalez said he is prepared to
come to the United States to take his son home to Cuba.

LOAD-DATE: March 10, 2000

LANGUAGE: English

GRAPHIC: PHOTO Photo headshot - Elian Gonzalez
 Father hires high-powered attorney

                  Copyright 2000 St. Louis Post-Dispatch, Inc.


                              350 of 457 DOCUMENTS

                       St. Louis Post-Dispatch (Missouri)

                 March 20, 2000, Monday, FIVE STAR LIFT EDITION

ON THE HILL, AN AMERICAN SALES PITCH MEETS A BOSNIAN BIG MAC  ;
REMZIJA DURAKOVIC SELLS CARS -- AND ACTS AS A HUMAN BRIDGE TO LIFE IN AMERICA;
FOR MANY OF HIS FELLOW BOSNIANSOUR TOWN 2000;
FIRST IN A SERIES.

BYLINE: John M. McGuire; Of The Post-Dispatch

SECTION: EVERYDAY MAGAZINE, Pg. E1

LENGTH: 1167 words


* St. Louis has one of this nation's largest communities of Bosnians. Some
20,000 refugees have settled here since war broke out in Bosnia in 1992. The
region is reaching out to its newest wave of immigrants as they adapt to their
new home.

Before going off to his afternoon shift at a South Kingshighway car dealership,
Remzija "Remzo" Durakovic had a little lunch. Actually, it wasn't a little -- it
was substantial.

Selling cars heightens the appetite. Durakovic is a genial fellow, with large
dark eyes and a quick smile, and he was eating what someone once called a
Bosnian Big Mac. It's known in his native city of Bihac as cevpavi raznjici --
sort of the Chrysler Concorde of sandwiches.

It's lamb-and-beef sausages, each the size of a shotgun shell, stuffed in a big
pouch of thick, well-oiled pastry with onion slices and tomato bits on the side.
It was a takeout meal from Bosma Gold, a Bosnian restaurant on Gravois Avenue.

The Durakovics live not far away in the Parc Carondelet apartments, on the north
side of the River des Peres. The sprawling complex, home to a considerable
number of Bosnian immigrants, is off Germania Boulevard near exits from
Interstate 55. Serbo-Croatian and German are heard in the courtyards there; many
Bosnians speak both languages. Some 20,000 Bosnians have resettled here, roughly
the population of Ferguson.

So it's not unusual to hear Serbo-Croatian in the showroom of King
Chrysler-Plymouth Jeep on South Kingshighway, where Durakovic works. Or not far
away at McMahon Ford and McMahon Lincoln-Mercury, where Bosnians Semir Bjelebac
and Hason "Hasko" Mujezinvic sell used cars.

Most of Durakovic's customers have names like Safet Abdic and Fakir Mehmedi, and
the largest thing on his desk is a bilingual dictionary titled, "Englesko Srpsko
Hrvatski Recnik."

He shares his small office with George Wotawa, a former banker of Czech
extraction, who grew up in St. Louis. When they met, Wotawa asked, "How are
you?" Czech: "Jak se mate?" which sounds like YAK-scha-masch.

Durakovic sort of knew what he meant.

Selling cars is nothing new for Durakovic. He bought and sold autos in Munich,
Germany, where he lived before moving here.

"I like sales," he says and proved it on a recent Saturday when he sold one used
car and two new models.

"I'm hot -- tell Joe I need 'cheese.' " And his smile was the kind you see when
someone says "cheese." The word is in-house slang for a sales bonus.

Joe is Paul Joseph Perniciaro, vice president and general manager of the
dealership, the man who persuaded Durakovic to leave his job as a courier with
J.S. Express and come to work for King Chrysler. They'd met when Durakovic
bought a new Plymouth Neon at the dealership. The Neon was inexpensive; the word
in Serbo-Croatian is "jeftin," pronounced "yef-tin," meaning cheap. Say "jeftin"
in the showroom when Bosnians are there, and heads turn.

Twelve months ago, Durakovic brought his Neon into the dealership for an oil
change. It was then that Perniciaro asked him about coming to work as a
salesman.

"When he bought the car from us, during the negotiations we noticed he spoke
good enough English. So we asked him every time he came in for an oil change,"
said Perniciaro. "Finally, after six months, he said, 'OK, I'm ready.'"

Now, Durakovic is one of the gang. Car salespeople are competitive on and off
the sales lot. Durakovic's passion is soccer and basketball. In the waiting
hours -- and long waits are part of the game -- the chit-chat is generally about
wagering on a one-on-one game of basketball, or betting on who will sell more
vehicles in a given day or week.

Salesman Tony Johnson and Durakovic go at it almost every day. Finally, it ended
in the much-talked-about game at the nearby St. Ambrose School playground on The
Hill, Durakovic prevailing easily, 21-2.

The next day, Johnson went through some facetious fuming: "He travels, double
dribbles, fouls you."

Durakovic smiled.

Later on, Carl Ganim, the sales and leasing guy, came by and patted down a
cowlick on Durakovic's head. Durakovic shoved Ganim and joked, "I'm sending you
to Albania."

Durakovic and his wife, Dijana, are thinking of buying a house. After just 18
months in St. Louis, things are going well, thanks to the car business. And
thanks to the fact that Durakovic is becoming well known in the community.

He advertises on a Bosnian radio program on WGNU (920 AM) each Sunday from 4 to
5:30 p.m. It's Sadia Ovcina's show, and she controls everything, including "news
straight from Bosnia" and the type of advertising.

"If I don't know about the advertiser, I don't run the advertising," Ovcina
says. "What happened to Bosnian people, in the past, is that some people wanted
to use them to make money. So it's very hard to build trust, and 80 to 90
percent don't speak English. So I try to help them on where to go and what to
buy.

"Remzo's a very good guy, very honest."

And in a way, Durakovic has become something of an unofficial diplomat, helping
Bosnians with bureaucratic paperwork and, at one time, helping them learn
American driving styles on Sunday, his day off.

"I don't do that anymore," he says. "I need to be with my family."

Bosnians can be exciting drivers, and they are more accustomed to cars with
standard shifts instead of automatic transmissions. So a demonstration ride down
South Kingshighway can be memorable.

Remzo and Dijana Durakovic have their share of traffic tickets.

Dijana was a nurse in Bosnia and attended medical school; now she's a nurse's
aide at Laclede Groves Retirement Community in Webster Groves. He went to high
school in her hometown of Buzim. After fleeing Bosnia, he spent two years
studying in Croatia, before moving to Germany.

Lunch on this day was a family affair with Dijana's mother, Kadifa Bunic,
visiting from Buzim, and the Durakovics' bouncy 4-year-old son, Amar, sitting on
the lap of Remzo's brother-in-law, Jusuf Beganovic. Remzo and Dijana met after
high school in Buzim and married in Germany in early 1993. With their young son,
they moved here in late August 1998.

All munched away as the television flickered with the "Sally Jessy Raphael
Show." It was something about juvenile delinquents spending shock time in jail.
Dijana thinks the TV show helps her with English. The shelf above the TV holds a
copy of the family's Koran.

Remzo Durakovic seems to enjoy his life here. Does his wife?

"Now I like it, maybe," she says. "When you don't speak English, it's hard. Now
I like it."

The very mention of Bosnia caused her to produce a packet of family snapshots.
She has three sisters and two brothers there.

The pictures say volumes about why she and her husband are here. In one photo, a
brother stands with two other heavily armed Bosnians, all three waving AK-47s.
Another brother sits atop a tank.

Durakovic smiled and shook his head. He never fooled around with rifles, he
said. Cars, yes. Rifles and tanks, no.

LOAD-DATE: March 20, 2000

LANGUAGE: English

GRAPHIC: PHOTO PHOTOS BY KEVIN MANNING / POST-DISPATCH
 (1) Color Photo - Most of what a car salesman does is wait -- for potential
buyers. And that's what a pensive Remzija "Remzo" Durakovic is doing on a
Saturday morning as he sits in a Plymouth Neon in the showroom of King
Chrysler-Plymouth Jeep on South Kingshighway.
 (2) Color Photo - Joe Perniciaro (center), vice president and general manager
of the auto dealership, playfully shakes Durakovic's head, as the Bosnian
salesman tries to negotiate an extended warranty for Zelijko Petrovic (left),
who just bought a car from Durakovic. Perniciaro hired Durakovic.
 (3) Photo - The big smile says it all. Durakovic basks in the glory of three
cars sold in one day, as he tells Joe Perniciaro he needs "cheese," slang for an
in-house commission for a hot salesman.
 (4) Photo - Working the art of a deal, Remzija Durakovic (left) explains the
trade-in aspects to Safet Abdic (right), as Durakovic's brother-in-law, Jusuf
Beganovic (center) watches. Beganovic co-signed Abdic's loan for a new Chrysler
minivan, an example of the close-knit nature of Bosnian business deals.
 (5) Photo - Salesman Tony Johnson (left) gestures about his new diet and boasts
to Durakovic that he'll prevail in a basketball rematch. In a one-on-one game
earlier in the week, Durakovic beat Johnson 21-2.

                  Copyright 2000 St. Louis Post-Dispatch, Inc.


                              351 of 457 DOCUMENTS

                       St. Louis Post-Dispatch (Missouri)

                  April 11, 2000, Tuesday, THREE STAR EDITION

ELIAN'S GREAT-UNCLE DISCUSSES CUSTODY TRANSFER;
HE TALKS TO PSYCHIATRISTS ABOUT HOW TO AVOID TRAUMATIZING THE BOY

BYLINE: The Associated Press

SECTION: NEWS, Pg. A5

LENGTH: 588 words

DATELINE: MIAMI


After refusing for months to return Elian Gonzalez to his father, the boy's
great-uncle met with government-appointed psychiatrists Monday to discuss how to
make the transfer without traumatizing the child.

The meeting lasted only an hour, despite the government's suggestion that it
would take as long as three hours. There was no immediate explanation from the
two sides, but Ed Rosasco, president of the hospital where the meeting took
place, said it was cordial.

Immigration and Naturalization Service officials agreed to hold the meeting at
Mercy Hospital to accommodate Elian's great-uncle Lazaro Gonzalez, who said he
could not leave his 21-year-old daughter, Marisleysis. The young woman, who has
been a mother figure to Elian, has been hospitalized since Saturday for stress
and exhaustion.

Attorney General Janet Reno had described the meeting as an important step
toward reuniting Elian with his father this week. The father, Juan Miguel
Gonzalez, flew from Cuba to Washington on Thursday and met with the two
psychiatrists and a psychologist Sunday.

The boy did not attend Monday's meeting. His Miami relatives had made it clear
they were unhappy that the psychiatrists would not evaluate Elian. They said
such an examination would conclude that he should not be returned to his father.


Marisleysis Gonzalez did not attend the meeting.

Also Monday, the family filed a brief in their appeal of a federal judge's
ruling that the Immigration and Naturalization Service acted properly in
ordering Elian returned to his father.

The family argued that since children as young as Elian are allowed to testify
in serious criminal trials, the immigration service should take his desires into
account in an asylum hearing - rather than assert, as it has, that only his
father can speak for him.

"That child's consistent statement that he fears going back to Cuba is enough
for the court to consider an asylum hearing," said Kendall Coffey, an attorney
for the Miami relatives.

The family also has been hoping to win custody of Elian in state court, but the
judge in that case sharply questioned the family's tactics. Circuit Judge
Jennifer D. Bailey asked the Miami family to explain by today why she should
hear the case.

She said family members had shown no evidence that Elian would be harmed if
returned to his father and asked them how she could overrule the federal
decision.

Four and a half months after Elian was rescued at sea, clinging to an inner tube
after his mother drowned, many in Miami's Cuban-American community say they
realize the boy's time in Little Havana could be coming to an end.

"This thing is over," said Rodolfo Carrandi, 70, a retired financial analyst
protesting in the street Monday outside Lazaro Gonzalez's house, where Elian has
been living. "Ms. Reno has a strong arm. She has made a decision. She put
herself in a corner, and she cannot back up."

Demonstrators at the house have vowed to form a human chain to prevent the
government from taking Elian. Ramon Saul Sanchez, president of the Cuban-exile
Democracy Movement, said he was "planning to exercise whatever influence we
have" over demonstrators to assure nonviolence.

Deputy Attorney General Eric Holder said on CBS on Monday that the Justice
Department would develop a plan to keep Elian safe in a potentially volatile
environment.

"We would hope that we would be able to set up something so that Elian will not
have to be carried through a throng of people in Miami," Holder said.

LOAD-DATE: April 11, 2000

LANGUAGE: English

GRAPHIC: PHOTO THE ASSOCIATED PRESS Photo - Cuban immigrant Jose Guerrero stands
with supporters Monday outside the home of Elian Gonzalez's relatives in Miami.

                  Copyright 2000 St. Louis Post-Dispatch, Inc.


                              352 of 457 DOCUMENTS

                       St. Louis Post-Dispatch (Missouri)

                April 15, 2000, Saturday, FIVE STAR LIFT EDITION

HOME VIDEO OF ELIAN GETS WIDE AIRING ON CABLE TV; CRITICS CALL IT PROPAGANDA

BYLINE: The Associated Press

SECTION: NEWS, Pg. 4

LENGTH: 566 words

DATELINE: MIAMI


* Some question whether the boy's message that he doesn't want to go to Cuba was
completely voluntary.

The home video from inside the Little Havana house was one of the most
compelling images yet: little Elian Gonzalez, sitting on a bed and looking into
a camera, telling his father in no uncertain terms that he doesn't want to go
back to Cuba.

It made for astonishing television - and an unusual ethical quandary that
brought the Miami relatives some of their heaviest criticism yet.

One out-of-town newspaper likened it to a prisoner-of-war video. In south
Florida, an editorial in The Miami Herald called it "media tactics." And Doris
Meissner, commissioner of the Immigration and Naturalization Service, denounced
it as "deeply disturbing."

The questions reverberated: Can a 6-year-old boy make a valid decision to speak
his mind on television? Or was he being manipulated by his relatives for
political ends?

"Papa, I don't want to go to Cuba. If you want, stay here. I'm not going to
Cuba," national television audiences saw Elian saying Thursday. In a red shirt
and striped shorts, he was animated and fidgety, sitting in front of the wooden
headboard of a bed.

Univision gets tape

The video was obtained by the Spanish-language network Univision. It was shown
on ABC's "Good Morning America," which had been alerted by Univision shortly
before it went on the air that the tape was available.

It was quickly rebroadcast on cable networks, producing vehement protests by the
lawyer for Elian's father, Juan Miguel Gonzalez. Attorney Gregory Craig implored
the media to stay away from the child, saying he "has been exploited enough."

Spencer Eig, an attorney for the Miami relatives, said Elian's plea was genuine
and warranted. "How is that exploiting him? He's only trying to save himself,"
Eig said Friday morning on NBC's "Today."

Even in an age of instantaneous transmission, when TV is not only a source of
information but a conduit for partisan messages, the implications were
extraordinary. While the relatives had long said Elian wanted to stay, hearing
it from the child's mouth on the very day the government had ordered him turned
over was something else entirely.

"It's unconscionable that they would use that child that way," Rep. Maxine
Waters, D-Calif., said on "Today." She said Elian had been "brainwashed."

"Speaking to his father in that manner, no 6-year-old child would initiate that
on his own," Waters said. "They put those words in that young boy's mouth, and
that is the worst kind of exploitation of a child that you could ever see."

While many called the video itself propaganda, ABC decided to use it in the
context of demonstrating how the propaganda war was escalating, said Paul
Friedman, the network's executive vice president and managing editor of news
coverage. ABC already had been criticized for Diane Sawyer's recent interview
with Elian Gonzalez, the first time he had been made available to speak to TV
journalists.

In Havana, the increasingly frustrated Cuban government wondered Friday how long
the agonizing saga would continue.

"Why doesn't this sad show end?" asked the international weekly edition of the
Communist Party's newspaper Granma.

"No one understands it," the article said. "Least of all his father, who after
five months has not seen his son, except on the news and questionable videos."

LOAD-DATE: April 15, 2000

LANGUAGE: English

GRAPHIC: PHOTO Photo by THE ASSOCIATED PRESS - Elian Gonzalez is shown in a home
video made in Miami. The airing of the video prompted immediate protests by his
father's attorneys, who urged the media to stay away from the child.

                  Copyright 2000 St. Louis Post-Dispatch, Inc.


                              353 of 457 DOCUMENTS

                       St. Louis Post-Dispatch (Missouri)

                   April 16, 2000, Sunday, THREE STAR EDITION

MIGRANTS' TREK NORTH TOWARD U.S. ENDS IN DEATH FOR 7 OF 250 SEALED IN TRAIN

BYLINE: The Associated Press

SECTION: NEWS, Pg. A16

LENGTH: 768 words

DATELINE: PALENQUE, MEXICO


For a month, dreams of work, food, homes and happiness drove 250 Central
American migrants on a grueling journey north toward the United States.

They stumbled through the rugged mountains of their native lands and southern
Mexico, shivering with hunger, cold, fear and fatigue.

When they ran out of money, they got jobs on ranches that paid $ 2.50 a day -
enough to buy a few tortillas so they would have the strength to continue their
journey.

But just after crossing into Mexico on Wednesday, their quest came to a deadly
halt.

Shortly after climbing into an open train car in a Mexican town near the
Guatemalan border, the car door slammed shut, trapping the immigrants for more
than five hours in temperatures that immigration officials estimate at more than
122 degrees.

Seven died of suffocation, and dozens were hospitalized.

"We were all on the edge of death," said Ana Deisy Marquez, 30, of El Salvador,
a mother of four who attempted the trip north with her husband, Angel Bustillo.

"We started screaming, 'We want to get out! We want to get out! Help us, because
we're going to die!' Some became delirious and others started kicking at people
because of the heat in the car, which was like an oven."

Salvadoran migrant Jose Ernesto said he and his desperate companions tried
unsuccessfully to beat the doors with axes and clubs in order to let air into
the car, which only had one small window.

Soon, people started to faint. Many believed they would die.

Five hours later, in the Chiapas municipality of Playas de Catazaja, the dying
immigrants were rescued by the most unusual of saviors: the Mexican immigration
officials who would later deport them.

"All of us in that car felt very close to death," said Ramiro Quintero, 32, of
El Salvador.

When immigration inspectors opened the train car, two people had already died of
suffocation, and a third died shortly after. Two others died at a hospital in
Palenque on Wednesday, and two more Thursday.

The bodies have not been identified and, because they are decomposing, are to be
buried in a common grave, said an official from the attorney general's office,
speaking on condition that he not be named.

All the other immigrants but one, a Honduran woman with broken ribs, have been
deported, he said.

A separate group of 100 illegal migrants traveling in an open car of the same
train escaped when it stopped. But several of them later turned themselves in
after getting lost and scared, authorities said.

Sitting in an immigration office in this southern Mexican state, Marquez
recounted the dream that made her decide to take the risky journey north.

"We decided to go out of need, because of the poverty that we were experiencing
with our four children," she said. She and others spent days and nights
endlessly walking, and suffering from hunger, cold and isolation.

"It's poverty that makes us take these risks," Quintero said.

Most of the migrants started their long treks in small groups of five and 10,
joining others they met along the way.

They asked directions from the villagers who sold them tortillas and cheese.
When their money ran out, they worked on ranches in Central America and Mexico,
Salvadoran migrant Jose Ernesto said.

On Tuesday night, they slept in the mountains. On Wednesday, exactly a month
after their journey began, a Mexican immigrant smuggler told them how to get to
a train that would take them from the southern state of Tabasco north to
Veracruz state.

From there, some planned to hook up with immigrant smugglers who could help them
get to the United States. Others planned to meet the smugglers or contact U.S.
relatives from the central state of Puebla. Many of the immigrants already had
paid smugglers as much as $ 4,000.

"This horrible experience killed the illusion" of going to the United States,
Quintero said.

Galde Guadalupe Celaya, 19, of San Salvador, was in her fifth month of pregnancy
and decided to try to reunite with her family in the United States.

"This tragedy left me with a horrible sensation that I can't describe," she
said. "For a month, I walked many long days and ate very poorly."

Of the train car, Celaya says she remembers only two things: "I lost
consciousness, and I was worried about the health of the little one I carry in
my womb. I was fighting for my little one to give him a better life, and I was
about to lose everything."

Marquez said that while her initial dream was to escape El Salvador's poverty
and obtain a better life in the United States, "now I just thank God that we are
alive."

LOAD-DATE: April 16, 2000

LANGUAGE: English

GRAPHIC: PHOTO THE ASSOCIATED PRESS Photo - Illegal migrants from Central
America reach out for food in Palenque, Mexico, after being intercepted by
immigration officials. Seven people died when they were trapped for hours in a
train car.

                  Copyright 2000 St. Louis Post-Dispatch, Inc.


                              354 of 457 DOCUMENTS

                       St. Louis Post-Dispatch (Missouri)

                April 20, 2000, Thursday, FIVE STAR LIFT EDITION

APPEALS PANEL SAYS ELIAN MUST STAY HERE FOR NOW;
RULING CHIDES U.S. FOR NOT TAKING BOY'S WISHES INTO ACCOUNT;
ELIAN, FATHER STILL MAY BE REUNITED

BYLINE: From News Services

SECTION: NEWS, Pg. A1

LENGTH: 914 words

DATELINE: MIAMI


Chastising the government for ignoring the wishes of a 6-year-old boy, a federal
appeals panel on Wednesday ruled that Elian Gonzalez must remain in the United
States until the court decides whether he should get an asylum hearing.

The court action, extending an earlier stay granted by one of the judges, marked
the latest in a series of actions that favored Elian's Miami relatives, who have
been battling his Cuban father in an international tug of war over the child.
The order, however, does not bar t he government from reuniting father and son
in the United States.

Meanwhile, an attorney for the Miami relatives said they are ready to take him
anywhere in the United States to meet his father.

Linda Osberg-Braun told ABC's "Nightline" that the boy's great-uncle, Lazaro
Gonzalez, had decided to make the offer after the court ruling. "They want to
meet immediately, under any circumstances, without conditions. ..."The most
important thing is that the families get together," Osberg-Braun told ABC,
quoting Lazaro Gonzalez, who has been caring for Elian since the boy survived a
shipwreck in November.

In Little Havana, the tense vigil outside the house where the boy is staying
quickly became a celebration after word of the court ruling spread Wednesday,
with people dancing, crying and chanting "God Bless America."

"The Gonzalez family continues to believe in the laws of the United States,"
said Lazaro Gonzalez, who defied Attorney General Janet Reno's demand to turn
the boy over to his father last week. "We will continue to pray . . . that
(Elian) may remain where his mother wanted him to be, in the life of freedom."

Elian played on his swing set and high-fived his second cousin, Marisleysis.

Reno, in Oklahoma City for the dedication of a memorial to the victims of the
federal building bombing five years ago, said she would abide by the court
order.

"But it does not disagree with my determination, it does not say that the boy
cannot be reunited with his father," she said. "I believe Elian should be
reunited with his father, and I said that all along."

Reno canceled a visit set for today to a Montana Indian reservation to return to
Washington and work on the Elian case.

The Justice Department still could forcibly remove the boy from the home. Yet
another option would be mediation, an avenue the judges encouraged the parties
to follow. They did not order mediation, however.

The order came from a three-judge panel of the 11th U.S. Circuit Court of
Appeals in Atlanta. The government could seek to have the stay lifted by the
full appeals court or by a U.S. Supreme Court justice. Or it could wait until a
scheduled hearing May 11 on the family's asylum request. The Immigration and
Naturalization Service had denied that request.

The 16-page ruling did not specifically forbid the immigration service from
taking custody. It also did not address government efforts to reunite Elian with
his father, Juan Miguel Gonzalez, who has been waiting in Washington since April
6. The father wants to return to Cuba, though he has promised to remain in the
country until the custody suit is settled.

Gregory Craig, the father's American attorney, said in Washington that the boy
should be reunited with his father right away.

"We call upon the United States government to take immediate action. It is
unconscionable to wait one day longer. To do so will only cause more harm to
Elian," Craig said.

The judges had harsh words for the government's handling of Lazaro Gonzalez's
effort to win an asylum hearing for the boy.

"According to the record, plaintiff - although a young child - has expressed a
wish that he not be returned to Cuba," the judges wrote.

"It appears that never have INS officials attempted to interview plaintiff about
his own wishes," the ruling said. "It is not clear that the INS, in finding
plaintiff's father to be the only proper representative, considered all of the
relevant factors - particularly the child's separate and independent interests
in seeking asylum."

The panel cited a landmark 1985 case involving a minor seeking asylum - that of
Walter Polovchak, who fought being returned to the Soviet Union. In that case,
the 7th U.S. Circuit Court ruled that a 12-year-old was "presumably near the
lower end of an age range" of maturity to assert rights separate from his
parents.

Before the ruling was issued, Reno said taking the boy by force was an option
but that she was trying to avoid any violence.

"There may come a time when there is no other alternative. But we've got to do
it in a careful, thoughtful way," Reno had said.

Last November, Elian's mother fled Cuba with him on a small boat, trying to
reach Florida. She and 10 others drowned when the boat sank in the Atlantic
Ocean. Two fishermen saved Elian, who was floating in an inner tube.

Lazaro Gonzalez was awarded temporary custody, and the boy's relatives in Miami
have been caring for him ever since.

In Cuba, state television reported that the Cuban Interests Section in
Washington has sent a message to the U.S. State Department warning that armed
men have been seen outside the Miami house where Elian is staying and that
anti-Castro groups plan to use force to resist any handover. The duty officer at
the State Department Wednesday night said he had not heard about the letter.

A Miami police spokesman said no armed men have been sighted and that a home
near the Gonzalez house was checked for guns.

LOAD-DATE: April 21, 2000

LANGUAGE: English

GRAPHIC: PHOTO Color PHOTO by THE ASSOCIATED PRESS - Elian Gonzalez and his
great-uncle, Lazaro Gonzalez, celebrate in Miami after a ruling Wednesday that
the boy must stay in the United States until all appeals are completed.

                  Copyright 2000 St. Louis Post-Dispatch, Inc.


                              355 of 457 DOCUMENTS

                       St. Louis Post-Dispatch (Missouri)

                  April 20, 2000, Thursday, THREE STAR EDITION

APPEALS PANEL SAYS ELIAN MUST STAY HERE FOR NOW;
RULING CHIDES U.S. FOR NOT TAKING BOY'S WISHES INTO ACCOUNT;
ELIAN, FATHER STILL MAY BE REUNITED

BYLINE: From News Services

SECTION: NEWS, Pg. A1

LENGTH: 881 words

DATELINE: MIAMI


Chastising the government for ignoring the wishes of a 6-year-old boy, a federal
appeals panel on Wednesday ruled that Elian Gonzalez must remain in the United
States until an asylum hearing next month.

The court action, extending an earlier stay granted by one of the judges, marked
the latest in a series of actions that favored Elian's Miami relatives, who have
been battling his Cuban father in an international tug-of-war over the child.
The order, however, does not bar the government from reuniting father and son in
the United States.

In Little Havana, the tense vigil outside the house where the boy is staying
quickly became a celebration, with people dancing, crying and chanting "God
Bless America."

"The Gonzalez family continues to believe in the laws of the United States,"
said Lazaro Gonzalez, the great-uncle who defied Attorney General Janet Reno's
demand to turn the boy over to his father last week. "We will continue to pray .
. . that (Elian) may remain where his mother wanted him to be, in the life of
freedom."

Elian played on his swing set and high-fived his second cousin, Marisleysis.

Reno, in Oklahoma City for the dedication of a memorial to the victims of the
federal building bombing five years ago, said she would abide by the court
order.

"But it does not disagree with my determination, it does not say that the boy
cannot be reunited with his father," she said.

"I believe Elian should be reunited with his father, and I said that all along."

The order Wednesday was by a three-judge panel of the 11th U.S. Circuit Court of
Appeals in Atlanta. The government could seek to have the stay lifted by the
full circuit court or by a U.S. Supreme Court justice. Or it could wait until a
scheduled hearing May 11 before the federal appeals court on the asylum request
by the Miami relatives. The Immigration and Naturalization Service had denied
that request.

The 16-page ruling did not specifically forbid the immigration service from
taking custody. It also did not address government efforts to reunite Elian with
his father, Juan Miguel Gonzalez, who has been waiting in Washington since April
6. He wants to return to Cuba, though he has promised to remain in the country
until the custody suit is settled.

Gregory Craig, the American attorney of Juan Miguel Gonzalez, said in Washington
that the boy should be reunited with his father in the United States.

"We call upon the United States government to take immediate action. It is
unconscionable to wait one day longer. To do so will only cause more harm to
Elian," Craig said.

The judges had harsh words for the government's handling of Lazaro Gonzalez's
effort to win an asylum hearing for the boy.

"According to the record, plaintiff - although a young child - has expressed a
wish that he not be returned to Cuba," the judges wrote.

"It appears that never have INS officials attempted to interview plaintiff about
his own wishes," the ruling said. "It is not clear that the INS, in finding
plaintiff's father to be the only proper representative, considered all of the
relevant factors - particularly the child's separate and independent interests
in seeking asylum."

The judges are: James Larry Edmondson, appointed by President Ronald Reagan;
Joel F. Dubina, appointed by President George Bush; and Charles R. Wilson,
appointed by President Bill Clinton.

In Little Havana, the Cuban-Americans keeping watch had worried that federal
agents would swoop in and try to remove Elian from his relatives' home.

Before the ruling was issued Wednesday, Reno said taking the boy by force was an
option but that she was trying to avoid any violence.

"There may come a time when there is no other alternative. But we've got to do
it in a careful, thoughtful way," Reno had said.

Last November, Elian's mother fled Cuba with him on a small boat, trying to
reach Florida. She and 10 others drowned when the boat sank in the Atlantic
Ocean. Two fishermen saved Elian, who was floating in an inner tube, on
Thanksgiving Day.

Lazaro Gonzalez was awarded temporary custody, and the boy's relatives in Miami
have been caring for him ever since. They insist Elian will be better off living
with them and argue that the boy would be psychologically harmed and face
persecution if he is returned to Cuba.

Since January, Reno and the government have repeatedly extended the deadline for
Lazaro Gonzalez to surrender the boy. Last week, the nation's top law officer
took the extraordinary step of flying to Miami to meet with family members.

But both sides have failed to agree on details of a reunion. The government
insists that Lazaro Gonzalez - referred to by federal attorneys as "a mere
distant relative" - surrender custody of the boy, while the family has sought a
meeting with Juan Miguel Gonzalez without conditions.

Despite the jubilation among the Miami relatives, one legal expert said the
court ruling did not change much.

"It is not that momentous or significant because it doesn't prohibit the
transfer of custody, it does not in any way question the government's revocation
of parole. All that's happened is, the status quo is maintained," said Bernard
Perlmutter, head of the Children and Youth Law Clinic at the University of Miami
Law School.

LOAD-DATE: April 20, 2000

LANGUAGE: English

GRAPHIC: PHOTO Color PHOTO by THE ASSOCIATED PRESS - Elian Gonzalez and his
great-uncle, Lazaro Gonzalez, celebrate in Miami after a ruling Wednesday that
the boy must stay in the United States until all appeals are completed.

                  Copyright 2000 St. Louis Post-Dispatch, Inc.


                              356 of 457 DOCUMENTS

                       St. Louis Post-Dispatch (Missouri)

                  April 20, 2000, Thursday, FIVE STAR EDITION

APPEALS PANEL SAYS ELIAN MUST STAY HERE FOR NOW;
RULING CHIDES U.S. FOR NOT TAKING BOY'S WISHES INTO ACCOUNT;
ELIAN, FATHER STILL MAY BE REUNITED

BYLINE: From News Services

SECTION: NEWS, Pg. A1

LENGTH: 913 words

DATELINE: MIAMI


Chastising the government for ignoring the wishes of a 6-year-old boy, a federal
appeals panel on Wednesday ruled that Elian Gonzalez must remain in the United
States until the court decides whether he should get an asylum hearing.

The court action, extending an earlier stay granted by one of the judges, marked
the latest in a series of actions that favored Elian's Miami relatives, who have
been battling his Cuban father in an international tug of war over the child.
The order, however, does not bar the government from reuniting father and son in
the United States.

In Little Havana, the tense vigil outside the house where the boy is staying
quickly became a celebration Wednesday, with people dancing, crying and chanting
"God Bless America."

"The Gonzalez family continues to believe in the laws of the United States,"
said Lazaro Gonzalez, the great-uncle who defied Attorney General Janet Reno's
demand to turn the boy over to his father last week. "We will continue to pray .
. . that (Elian) may remain where his mother wanted him to be, in the life of
freedom."

Elian played on his swing set and high-fived his second cousin, Marisleysis.

Reno, in Oklahoma City for the dedication of a memorial to the victims of the
federal building bombing five years ago, said she would abide by the court
order.

"But it does not disagree with my determination, it does not say that the boy
cannot be reunited with his father," she said. "I believe Elian should be
reunited with his father, and I said that all along."

The Justice Department still could forcibly remove the boy from the home. Yet
another option would be mediation, an avenue the judges encourage d the parties
to follow. They did not order mediation, however.

The order came from a three-judge panel of the 11th U.S. Circuit Court of
Appeals in Atlanta. The government could seek to have the stay lifted by the
full appeals court or by a U.S. Supreme Court justice. Or it could wait until a
scheduled hearing May 11 on the family's asylum request. The Immigration and
Naturalization Service had denied that request.

The 16-page ruling did not specifically forbid the immigration service from
taking custody. It also did not address government efforts to reunite Elian with
his father, Juan Miguel Gonzalez, who has been waiting in Washington since April
6. The father wants to return to Cuba, though he has promised to remain in the
country until the custody suit is settled.

Gregory Craig, the father's American attorney, said in Washington that the boy
should be reunited with his father in the United States.

"We call upon the United States government to take immediate action. It is
unconscionable to wait one day longer. To do so will only cause more harm to
Elian," Craig said.

The judges had harsh words for the government's handling of Lazaro Gonzalez's
effort to win an asylum hearing for the boy.

"According to the record, plaintiff - although a young child - has expressed a
wish that he not be returned to Cuba," the judges wrote.

"It appears that never have INS officials attempted to interview plaintiff about
his own wishes," the ruling said. "It is not clear that the INS, in finding
plaintiff's father to be the only proper representative, considered all of the
relevant factors - particularly the child's separate and independent interests
in seeking asylum."

The panel cited a landmark 1985 case involving a minor seeking asylum - that of
Walter Polovchak, who fought being returned to the Soviet Union. In that case,
the 7th U.S. Circuit Court ruled that a 12-year-old was "presumably near the
lower end of an age range" of maturity to assert rights separate from his
parents.

The 11th circuit judges are: James Larry Edmondson, appointed by President
Ronald Reagan; Joel F. Dubina, appointed by President George Bush; and Charles
R. Wilson, appointed by President Bill Clinton.

In Little Havana, the Cuban-Americans keeping watch had worried that federal
agents would swoop in and try to remove Elian from his relatives' home.

Before the ruling was issued Wednesday, Reno said taking the boy by force was an
option but that she was trying to avoid any violence.

Last November, Elian's mother fled Cuba with him on a small boat, trying to
reach Florida. She and 10 others drowned when the boat sank in the Atlantic
Ocean. Two fishermen saved Elian.

Lazaro Gonzalez was awarded temporary custody, and the boy's relatives in Miami
have been caring for him ever since. They insist Elian will be better off living
with them.

Since January, Reno and the government have repeatedly extended the deadline for
Lazaro Gonzalez to surrender the boy. Last week, the nation's top law officer
took the extraordinary step of flying to Miami to meet with family members.

But both sides have failed to agree on details of a reunion.

In Cuba, state television reported that the Cuban Interests Section in
Washington has sent a message to the U.S. State Department warning that armed
men have been seen outside the Miami house where Elian is staying and that
anti-Castro groups plan to use force to resist any handover of the boy. The duty
officer at the State Department Wednesday night said he had heard nothing about
the letter.

Reporters outside the house have not seen armed men around the home and Miami
police spokesman Delrish Moss said: "Police officers have seen no armed men in
the crowd. Otherwise, decisive action would have been taken."

LOAD-DATE: April 20, 2000

LANGUAGE: English

GRAPHIC: PHOTO Color PHOTO by THE ASSOCIATED PRESS - Elian Gonzalez and his
great-uncle, Lazaro Gonzalez, celebrate in Miami after a ruling Wednesday that
the boy must stay in the United States until all appeals are completed.

                  Copyright 2000 St. Louis Post-Dispatch, Inc.


                              357 of 457 DOCUMENTS

                       St. Louis Post-Dispatch (Missouri)

                April 22, 2000, Saturday, FIVE STAR LIFT EDITION

(PHOTO ONLY) ELIAN'S FATHER PLEADS WITH RENO FOR BOY'S RELEASE

SECTION: NEWS, Pg. 1

LOAD-DATE: July 24, 2000

LANGUAGE: English

GRAPHIC: PHOTO Color Photo by BETH A. KEISER / THE ASSOCIATED PRESS - Elian's
father pleads with Reno for boy's release
 Supporters of the Miami family of Elian Gonzalez gather at a police barricade
Friday outside the home of the boy's relatives.
 Rumors of imminent federal action to take Elian sweep through the growing
crowds in the Little Havana section of Miami. . . . . . Story on Page 4

                  Copyright 2000 St. Louis Post-Dispatch, Inc.


                              358 of 457 DOCUMENTS

                       St. Louis Post-Dispatch (Missouri)

                April 22, 2000, Saturday, FIVE STAR LIFT EDITION

LETTERS TO THE EDITOR: APPEAL PANEL'S RULING ON ELIAN IS NOT BASED ON LOGIC OR;
JUSTICE

SECTION: EDITORIAL, Pg. 31

LENGTH: 250 words


In what truly exemplifies the theater of the absurd, a federal appeals panel has
ruled that the Immigration and Naturalization Service erred in not attempting to
interview Elian Gonzelez about his wishes.

Do any of the people involved in the decision-making process in this case
understand that for a majority of Americans this issue is so black and white
that it defies logic that it is still being argued? Elian's mother did not
consult his father before embarking on an ocean voyage on a crowded raft with
Elian in tow - a perilous journey made even worse by the fact she couldn't swim.

In some states in this country a mother or father in custody of a child cannot
move to another state with their children without the other parent's permission.

Elian belongs with his father. But now an appeals panel has determined that a
6-year-old child under the constant gaze of television cameras, hundreds of
chanting, flag-waving Cuban Americans should be "consulted" about where he
wishes to be granted citizenship.

We don't ask youth under the age of 21 if they would like to vote, smoke or
drink. but we deem it necessary that we ask a 6-year- old about his preference
of parents and citizenship? This decision cannot be based on logic or justice;
it must have a political bent, for the obvious seems so obvious.

It is exactly this type of ignorant pandering that leaves the American public
cynical and apathetic about the wheels of justice.

Greg Gibson

University City

LOAD-DATE: April 22, 2000

LANGUAGE: English

                  Copyright 2000 St. Louis Post-Dispatch, Inc.


                              359 of 457 DOCUMENTS

                       St. Louis Post-Dispatch (Missouri)

                April 23, 2000, Sunday, EARLY FIVE STAR EDITION

U.S. AGENTS STORM HOME IN MIAMI, SNATCH ELIAN;
BOY IS FLOWN TO WASHINGTON AND IS REUNITED WITH HIS FATHER;
RENO ORDERS RAID BEFORE DAWN AS TALKS WITH RELATIVES FAIL; PROTESTS ERUPT;
LATER;
180 PEOPLE ARE ARRESTED

BYLINE: Knight Ridder Newspapers; The Associated Press Contributed Information
For This Story.

SECTION: NEWS, Pg. A1

LENGTH: 1037 words

DATELINE: MIAMI


It took five months for the custody battle over Elian Gonzalez to build to a
tense standoff. It took federal agents about three minutes to end it.

In a cleanly executed raid before dawn that caught Elian's Miami relatives off
guard, armed and helmeted U.S. Border Patrol officers pushed aside a handful of
demonstrators to batter in the door of their Little Havana home. At gunpoint,
they took the boy from the grip of his Thanksgiving Day rescuer, fisherman
Donato Dalrymple.

"We're taking you to see your papa," a Spanish-speaking female agent told the
terrified boy as she carried him out of the house to a government van.

Before most of Miami awoke to what had occurred, Elian had been reunited with
his father at Andrews Air Force Base outside Washington.

As stunning images from the raid were almost instantly and repeatedly broadcast
on TV, bands of angry protesters began roaming Miami's Flagler Street corridor,
upsetting Dumpsters in the street and setting tires and debris afire at scores
of locations.

Riot-clad police showed little tolerance for the disruptions, gassing those who
defied orders to clear out, and arresting more than 180. At least two officers
were injured, one when a demonstrator smacked him in the shoulder with a
baseball bat.

Exile leaders urged calm and called for a general strike on Tuesday.

Clinton supports decision

In Washington, President Bill Clinton expressed firm support for U.S. Attorney
General Janet Reno's decision to send the agents into the house.

"I believed that it was the right thing to do," the president told reporters
outside the White House. "I hope that with time and support Elian and his father
will have the opportunity to be a strong family again."

Elian's relatives, looking shell-shocked and exhausted hours after the raid,
boarded a midday flight to Washington, where they hoped to be allowed to see
Elian and Reno. They met with Sen. Bob Smith, R-N.H., who accompanied them in a
failed to attempt to meet with the father and son at Andrews Air Force Base,
where Elian was in seclusion with his father, stepmother and baby half-brother.

Reno ordered the boy's removal by force after all-night negotiations conducted
through community leaders acting as mediators failed to resolve the central
issue in the impasse -- how the Miami relatives would turn over Elian to his
father, who two weeks ago flew to Washington from Cuba to await a promised
reunification.

The raid was a scenario federal officials had for weeks gone to great lengths to
avoid, a posture that brought Reno under criticism for inaction.

But it was the end that Elian's great-uncle, Lazaro Gonzalez, seemed to invite
last week when, speaking in the glare of the national media, he defied a direct
government order to surrender the boy, and challenged Reno to send in federal
agents to get him.

Contrasting images Two indelible and sharply contrasting images will forever
define the morning's dramatic and dizzying events:

* A photo from The Associated Press of a helmeted Border Patrol officer leveling
an automatic weapon while a frightened-looking Elian and D alrymple try to
squeeze into a crammed bedroom closet.

* And -- less than three hours later -- a photo of a smiling Elian in the arms
of his satisfied father, Juan Miguel Gonzalez. The photo was released by
Gonzalez's attorney, Gregory Craig, who said Elian showed little sign of trauma
and acted happy to see his dad and family.

"It is amazing how quickly that bond re-established itself," Craig said.  "It
was almost instantaneous."

The raid and the images from it now seem likely to be dissected and debated for
months. Video of agents surrounding the home, then emerging with a crying Elian,
were being broadcast nationally moments after the raid ended. CNN went around
the clock with Elian coverage.

The raid prompted cries of outrage among Cuban-Americans, the relatives and
their supporters, who called the use of force excessive and denounced Reno and
Clinton.

Ramon Saul Sanchez, leader of the anti-Castro Democracy Movement, was bleeding
from one ear after the raid. He said he was knocked out by an agent using a
rifle as a club.

"This is terrible," said Cristina Valdes, 67, who was among dozens of people
banging on a parked van to vent their anger. "I'm ashamed to be an American.
Clinton is a coward, coward, coward."

Throughout the morning, Elian's cousin, Marisleysis Gonzalez, who regarded
herself as the boy's surrogate mother, wept through interview after interview,
calling government officials "dogs" in a hoarse voice.

The relatives and a group of mediators who tried to forge a last-minute
compromise for a peaceful handover, including University of Miami President Tad
Foote, said they felt betrayed by Reno. Foote is a former dean of the Washington
University Law School in St. Louis.

They said they believed they were close to an agreement and were literally on
the phone with aides to Reno when they were told the plug was pulled on the
negotiations. The raid began within minutes.

But Reno was unequivocal: The relatives kept "moving the goal posts" each time
an agreement seemed near, and she and her advisers reluctantly concluded around
4 a.m. that further negotiation would be fruitless.

"This has been a very emotional case for everyone involved," Reno said at a news
conference. "The most important thing is that Elian is safe and that no one was
seriously hurt."

It was expected that Juan Miguel Gonzalez, his wife and 6-month-old baby would
move out of the home of a Cuban diplomat where they have been living since
arriving in the U.S., to an undisclosed location where they would re-establish
family bonds with Elian. A federal appeals court last week ordered that Elian
remain in the country pending resolution of a court challenge by his Miami
relatives of Reno's decision to send the boy back to Cuba with his father.

"Let us give him and his father the space, the calm, the moral support they need
to reconnect and reaffirm their bond between father and son," Reno said.

Reno justified the show of force, saying agents were concerned about reports of
weapons in the Miami relatives' house and in nearby homes.

LOAD-DATE: April 24, 2000

LANGUAGE: English

GRAPHIC: PHOTO, GRAPHIC, MAP, (1) Color Photo by ALAN DIAZ / THE ASSOCIATED
PRESS - Federal agents invade the home in Miami of Elian Gonzalez's relatives
before dawn Saturday and find Elian in the closet. He is being held by Donato
Dalrymple, one of the fishermen who rescued the boy off the Florida coast on
Thanksgiving. The photo was taken by a free-lance photographer who slipped into
the home as the raid began. Story, A8.
 (2) Color Photo by AGENCE FRANCE-PRESSE - Elian Gonzalez and his father, Juan
Miguel Gonzalez, beam after being reunited for the first time in five months
Saturday at Andrews Air Force Base near Washington.
 (3) Graphic / Illustration - Inside the House
 WHERE AGENTS FOUND ELIAN
 Donato Dalrymple, one of the fisherman who rescued Elian, was hiding with him
in the closet.
 Diagram of the home's interior shows:
 * Front door
 * Elian's Bedroom: Marisleysis Gonzalez's bedroom as well.
 * Layout of the are unclear
 * Bedroom
 Diagram is schematic.
 (4) Map by The New York Times - Gonzalez home in Miami
 (Three maps, each one in greater detail. One showing the location of Miami in
the United States. One is a close-up showing the location of Miami in Florida.
And one a close-up of the neighborhood, showing the location of the Miami home
of Elian Gonzalez.)

                  Copyright 2000 St. Louis Post-Dispatch, Inc.


                              360 of 457 DOCUMENTS

                       St. Louis Post-Dispatch (Missouri)

                April 23, 2000, Sunday, EARLY FIVE STAR EDITION

RENO SENT AGENTS AFTER LONG NIGHT OF NEGOTIATIONS;
HER AIDES WATCHED RAID ON TELEVISION

BYLINE: The Associated Press;

SECTION: NEWS, Pg. A8

LENGTH: 611 words

DATELINE: WASHINGTON



THE ATTORNEY GENERAL

It was just past 4 a.m. Saturday and Attorney General Janet Reno, at her desk
wearing a telephone headset, could wait no longer to decide whether to order
armed agents to seize Elian Gonzalez from his Miami relatives.

Reno already had decided that the meticulously planned operation would take
place in Saturday's pre-dawn hours. Surprise meant everything, and conditions
were just right for the officers. The crowd in front of the Lazaro Gonzalez home
in Miami was as thin as it was going to get.

As the negotiations were recounted by Justice Department aides, who were sitting
on chairs, sofas and the floor around Reno's desk, the attorney general looked
around the room to see whether all agreed to proceed. They did, according to
officials who described the scene but would not be quoted by name.

At that moment, a Miami mediator asked for five more minutes. When nothing
happened, the attorney general turned to Doris Meissner, commissioner of the
Immigration and Naturalization Service, and gave the order to move.

While it had been a long night for Reno, it was just as taxing for mediators in
Miami more than 900 miles away. The mediators knew the negotiations had been
snagged during the night, but they were upbeat -- confident that an agreement
was not impossible. The lightning raid shocked them.

At the negotiator's urging, Elian's Miami family had signed a letter agreeing to
live with Elian and his father at a temporary, neutral home in the Miami area,
with Elian's father having temporary custody.

Around 4 a.m. Saturday, Reno told Podhurst, working from his home, that the
living quarters couldn't be in Florida. The Justice Department insisted on a
site near Washington.

While Podhurst waited on the phone for Reno's message to be relayed, the raid
began. ''I was totally surprised and shocked when the government seized the
boy,'' he said.

An attorney for the Miami family, former U.S. attorney Kendall Coffey, was
sleeping on the couch at the Lazaro Gonzalez' house. De la Cruz had just come
back from a coffee run to a nearby all-night shop when agents snatched the boy.

In Reno's office, there were moments of unbearable tension and moments when
nothing was happening. One staff member brought back pizza. Another had time to
read ''Voyage To The Bunny Planet,'' a book Reno was planning to read at
Sunday's Easter Egg Roll at the White House.

Aides said Reno was alternately subdued and passionate. She cajoled and argued
with Podhurst. One official said she used words like ''At some point we're going
to have to do enforcement. We don't want to do it. We have to know, will they
bring the child? We have to have the child.''

She also warned, ''You're running out of time. There's no more time.''

Reno aides had prepared separate statements for her to read, one if a deal had
been reached and one for a breakdown.

Shortly before the final decision was made, Reno went around the room to get
everyone's opinion. Everyone was nervous and silent for a moment. They all
nodded their approval. Nobody was opposed.

The aides watched the raid on television. ''They've got the kid,'' someone
yelled.

The Attorneys General's cecision to use force has put her on the hot seat, a
place she's been before. It was seven years ago last week that, after protracted
negotations, she ordered the FBI's botched assault on the Branch Davidian
compound at Waco that left some 80 people dead.

President Bill Clinton did his best to distance hiself from Reno after Waco.
Saturday he quickly went before the cameras to praise the attorney general for
her "restraint, patience, adn compassion."

LOAD-DATE: April 24, 2000

LANGUAGE: English

GRAPHIC: PHOTO Photo Headshot - (Attorney General Janet) Reno, Cajoled, argued
on phone

                  Copyright 2000 St. Louis Post-Dispatch, Inc.


                              361 of 457 DOCUMENTS

                       St. Louis Post-Dispatch (Missouri)

                 April 23, 2000, Sunday, FIVE STAR LIFT EDITION

PHOTOGRAPHER SLIPPED INTO HOUSE, AS "HELL BROKE LOOSE"

BYLINE: The Associated Press

SECTION: NEWS, Pg. A8

LENGTH: 466 words

DATELINE: MIAMI



THE PHOTOGRAPHER'S VIEW

The scene in Lazaro Gonzalez's bedroom could hardly have been more dramatic: a
federal agent wearing green riot gear, a helmet and goggles was carrying an
automatic rifle when he confronted a man holding a frightened Elian Gonzalez in
a closet.

The moment was captured in a series of photos Saturday by an Associated Press
photographer. The attorney general was asked about the image at a news
conference where she defended the approach to taking custody of Elian.

AP free-lance photographer Alan Diaz said Elian was crying and yelled to him,
"Que esta pasando?" - What's happening? - moments before a federal agent burst
into the bedroom where he was being held.

When the raid began, Diaz was with another photographer and an NBC cameraman on
the lawn next door to the house of Elian's great-uncle. The family had arranged
with television networks to have cameras nearby to record any raid.

With the arrival of federal agents, "All of a sudden hell broke loose," said
Diaz. "All I recall is the NBC guy saying, 'They're here, they're here.' "

Diaz and the cameraman jumped over the chain-link fence in front of the Gonzalez
home and walked into the house. An associate of the relatives directed Diaz to
the room Elian had been sharing with Marisleysis.

"A family friend grabbed me and he said, 'Go to the room, go to the room,' "
Diaz said. But Elian wasn't there. The photographer then knocked on the door of
Lazaro's bedroom, and his wife, Angela, opened it. Elian was in a closet, held
by Donato Dalrymple, one of the fishermen who had rescued him at sea. Dalrymple
said that amid the noise and commotion from the agents breaking into the home,
he had run to the boy and taken him into his arms, retreating to Lazaro
Gonzalez's bedroom.

Diaz recalled that when he arrived in the bedroom, Elian "was crying and he was
asking me, 'What's happening?' and all I said was, 'Nothing's wrong.' I mean,
what was I going to say?"

Seconds later, federal agents entered the room and seized the boy. Elian
continued to cry and ask, "What's happening?"

"They went to the closet and I shot (the photograph of) them grabbing the baby,"
Diaz said.

NBC cameraman Tony Zumbado said later he was dragged away from the house by a
federal agent.

At a news conference in Washington, Attorney General Janet Reno was asked
whether the photograph had raised the question of excessive force.

"One of the beauties of television is that it shows exactly what the facts are,"
Reno said. "And as I understand it, if you look at it carefully, it shows that
the gun was pointed to the side, and that the finger was not on the trigger."

A switch on the HK MP-5 weapon in photographs is clearly on "S" for safety, a
position from which it could not be fired.

LOAD-DATE: April 24, 2000

LANGUAGE: English

GRAPHIC: PHOTO Photo from THE ASSOCIATED PRESS - Photographer Alan Diaz outside
the home of Lazaro Gonzalez in Miami on Saturday. Diaz told an upset Elian
Gonzalez, "Nothing's wrong."

                  Copyright 2000 St. Louis Post-Dispatch, Inc.


                              362 of 457 DOCUMENTS

                       St. Louis Post-Dispatch (Missouri)

                   April 23, 2000, Sunday, THREE STAR EDITION

MOB MENTALITY IS TAKING HOLD OF MIAMI'S CUBANS, EXPERTS SAY;
WHILE PROTESTERS HAVE BEEN PEACEFUL, COMMUNITY HAS HISTORY OF VIOLENCE

BYLINE: The Associated Press

SECTION: NEWS, Pg. A8

LENGTH: 507 words

DATELINE: MIAMI


A radio show host with a shirt saying Elian Gonzalez should go back to Cuba is
shoved around by an angry crowd. A week later, a man with a similar message is
branded a "pro-Castro instigator" by the crowd, and police hustle him away for
his own safety.

In Little Havana, where rumors race through the crowd daily outside Elian's
home, the First Amendment right to free speech is limited to those who insist
the 6-year-old boy should not go back to Cuba.

Those who express contrary opinions do so at their own risk.

Bienvenido Comas, 27, a demonstrator for Elian, says rival protesters have a
right to voice their opinions - just not here.

"It's illegal for somebody to come in here and incite a riot, and you're trying
to incite a riot doing that," he says.

There have been only sporadic incidents of violence since Elian arrived nearly
five months ago, and police credit the protesters with preventing fights. But
Miami has a long history of violence linked to its large and powerful Cuban
community.

In the mid-'70s, radio station news director Emilio Milian lost his legs below
the knees in a car bombing after speaking against violent extremists. The Miami
Herald later was labeled pro-Castro, and its vending machines were vandalized
and editors received death threats.

In 1998, a pipe bomb exploded at a Miami Beach nightclub, canceling a concert by
Cuban salsa star Manolin. No one was hurt.

When it comes to Elian, experts say a mob mentality is growing in Miami as the
protests drag on. They say the exhilaration that comes from defying the U.S. and
Cuban governments leads to irrational behavior.

"You're getting everything you're going to get in a sports stadium. It's driven
to extremes, and it's carried by hatred," says Kenneth Richardson, a
psychologist at Ursinus College in Collegeville, Pa., who specializes in group
dynamics. "Once you get that, it destroys reason."

Hundreds of protesters gather daily near the Little Havana home, and dozens
spend the night in small circles of lawn chairs, sipping strong, sugary Cuban
coffee. Many of the anti-Castro Cubans see spies and provocateurs all around
them.

One night last week, Josefina Rosenthal, 57, a housewife, noticed a man who
hadn't joined in with the others in chanting "Elian Isn't Going Away" in
Spanish. His stony demeanor convinced her he was a troublemaker.

Smoking a cigar near the Gonzalez home, Humberto Perez, 67, says Cuban-Americans
know spies are at work because that's what happens in Cuba.

"They're watching everything," Perez says. "If you come home at 2 a.m., they
know it. If you have a package, they know it."

Guillermo Grenier, a sociologist with Florida International University, says,
"This is a frenzy. This can be seen in history as something equivalent to the
witch trials in Salem."

He added: "The Cuban community is in tune ideologically with the best of the
Constitution. But when an issue deals with Cuba, the behavior shows, 'We are
exiles, and anyone who preaches what we left, we are against.'"

LOAD-DATE: April 24, 2000

LANGUAGE: English

                  Copyright 2000 St. Louis Post-Dispatch, Inc.


                              363 of 457 DOCUMENTS

                       St. Louis Post-Dispatch (Missouri)

                   April 23, 2000, Sunday, THREE STAR EDITION

LAWMAKER'S OPPOSITION TO CHINA TRADE BILL MAY MAKE HIS RE-ELECTION TOUGHER

BYLINE: The Associated Press

SECTION: NEWS, Pg. A5

LENGTH: 692 words

DATELINE: WASHINGTON


The China trade bill isn't just about jobs or imports and exports for Rep. David
Wu.

It's about freedom. The kind that allowed him, an immigrant from Taiwan, to earn
a law degree, open a law firm and become the first Chinese-American elected to
the House.

Wu, a freshman Democrat from Oregon, says granting permanent trade privileges to
China will stifle efforts to expand freedom there. He wants the United States to
press for more reforms in China before passing a trade bill.

So he'll vote against the measure next month, even though that could cost him
his job. Trade with China is key in his district.

"I wish I could change my values on this, but if I did I would not be true to
everything that my parents have done - and I think to everything that countless
others have sacrificed - in order to give me and others the ability to speak out
on this issue here in America," said Wu. His position conflicts with that of
President Bill Clinton, who wants permanent trade privileges for China.

The bill, scheduled for a vote the week of May 22, would extend to China the
same low-tariff access to U.S. markets enjoyed by almost every other U.S.
trading partner. China currently has this access, but it must be renewed
annually. The bill would end these annual reviews.

Failure to pass the bill would prevent U.S. businesses from gaining greater
access to Chinese markets and deny Americans greater protection from Chinese
import surges, the Clinton administration says.

Wu, 45, was born in Taiwan, which split with communist China 51 years ago. When
he was 4 months old, his father left to pursue an American education. His
parents lived apart for six years before the family reunited in New York.

The family then moved to California, where his father worked as an engineer.
David graduated first in his high school class, got his undergraduate degree
from Stanford in 1977, attended Harvard medical school, earned a law degree from
Yale in 1982 and co-founded a law firm in Portland, Ore.

This life story weighs heavily on Wu as he prepares to vote on the China trade
bill. Immigrants helped build America's model of freedom, he said, and Americans
must continue to press for democracy, human rights and rule of law at home and
in places like China.

Although many Democrats are expected to vote against the bill, Wu's stand is
daring. His district stretches from downtown Portland to the Pacific Ocean, an
area home to the "silicon forest" of high technology start-ups and corporate
giants, including Nike and Intel.

China is a key trading partner for Oregon and other states in the Pacific
Northwest. The only other lawmaker in the region who has pledged to vote against
the bill is Rep. Peter DeFazio, D-Ore. Ten other Democratic House and Senate
members from the Pacific Northwest will vote for the bill.

Rep. John Murtha, D-Pa., a leading opponent of the bill, suggested that Wu not
sign a letter to Clinton opposing the measure because it could hurt him. But Wu
signed it anyway and then stood beside the House's No. 2 Democrat, Rep. David
Bonior of Michigan, to release the letter at a news conference March 30.

Trade proponents are upset by Wu's high-profile opposition.

Brad Figel, a lobbyist for Nike, said, "I'm frankly disappointed. It's one thing
just to oppose China... but he's decided to take it to a higher level." A third
of Nike's shoes are made in China.

Nike would see lower import tariffs on finished products and materials and get
more intellectual property protection if China gains entry into the World Trade
Organization. The Clinton administration believes this will occur if the bill
passes.

Wu's position on China trade is backed by organized labor, which doesn't have a
strong presence in Wu's district but donated the most money to his campaign last
year, about $ 100,000.

Both Republicans who want to run against Wu this fall support permanent trade
status for China and say they will make it a top campaign issue. State Sen.
Charles Starr called Wu's view "an extreme position," while former Lake Oswego
Mayor Alice Schlenker said the issue "is one of jobs in Oregon."

LOAD-DATE: April 24, 2000

LANGUAGE: English

GRAPHIC: PHOTO Photo from THE ASSOCIATED PRESS - Rep. David Wu, D-Ore., talks to
a Rotary Club gathering during an informal lunch Tuesday in his Portland, Ore.,
office.

                  Copyright 2000 St. Louis Post-Dispatch, Inc.


                              364 of 457 DOCUMENTS

                       St. Louis Post-Dispatch (Missouri)

                 April 23, 2000, Sunday, FIVE STAR LIFT EDITION

PHOTO TRUMPS TV CAMERAS IN CAPTURING DRAMATIC MOMENT

BYLINE: From News Services

SECTION: NEWS, Pg. A8

LENGTH: 338 words

DATELINE: NEW YORK



THE MEDIA COVERAGE

It was unintentional that a still photograph became an instant icon of the
television-driven saga of Elian Gonzalez.

The photograph of a federal agent in riot gear, with a gun pointed in the
direction of the little boy in the arms of the man who had rescued him from the
sea, was shown and discussed on television news broadcasts Saturday.

The Gonzalez family had intended the taking of Elian to be televised live.

"We got Maced, we got kicked, we got roughed up" by federal agents, said Tony
Zumbado, an NBC cameraman. He spoke to his colleagues on the air Saturday
afternoon, explaining why his pictures never materialized.

Zumbado and an NBC sound person were providing the pool coverage to be shared by
all the networks and cable channels. They entered the house alongside The
Associated Press photographer who took the central image.

Over the previous 10 days, the family had flip-flopped about whether to allow a
camera inside if federal officials arrived. Late Friday afternoon, they
consented.

That is the most ironic twist in what continues to be a battle of television
imagery, with the networks on the air from minutes after the dawn raid through
most of the morning, and the cable news channels continuing all day.

The AP picture dominated the special live TV coverage on Saturday morning. By
midday, that photo was joined by pictures that depicted Elian in a smiling
reunion with his father, stepmother and half-brother at Andrews Air Force Base
in Maryland. Those were supplied to the networks by the father's attorney, Greg
Craig.

The three top broadcasters and three cable news stations had mostly continuous
coverage of the story from before 6 a.m. until at least noon. The exception was
ABC, which was more reluctant to break away from children's programming.

ABC, CBS, NBC, CNN, Fox News Channel and MSNBC all reported the raid within a
half hour after it took place. ABC didn't begin continuous coverage with
Elizabeth Vargas until shortly before 7 a.m.

LOAD-DATE: April 24, 2000

LANGUAGE: English

                  Copyright 2000 St. Louis Post-Dispatch, Inc.


                              365 of 457 DOCUMENTS

                       St. Louis Post-Dispatch (Missouri)

                April 23, 2000, Sunday, EARLY FIVE STAR EDITION

RIOT POLICE IN MIAMI BEAT PROTESTERS AS UNREST FLAIRS;
MORE THAN 180 ARE ARRESTED

BYLINE: The Associated Press

SECTION: NEWS, Pg. A4

LENGTH: 646 words

DATELINE: MIAMI



THE PROTESTS

Riot police with batons and shields beat demonstrators who set bonfires and
uprooted concrete benches on the streets of Little Havana on Saturday after
Elian Gonzalez was snatched by federal agents. More than 180 people were
arrested.

The unrest continued for hours after the raid before dawn on Lazaro Gonzalez's
house, as police cleared out one area only to have another protest pop up a few
blocks away in the working-class neighborhood.

At an evening news conference, Miami Mayor Joe Carollo and Miami-Dade Mayor Alex
Penelas called on the community to be peaceful, but also talked of their shock
at the federal action.

"That never should have happened in such a way," Carollo said. "Not in America."

Police in small groups or walking 30-strong down the avenues shooed away
protesters and scuffled with those that resisted. Several officers were
assaulted, and several were injured by a man with a baseball bat. Conditions of
the injured were not immediately available.

An elderly man was handcuffed and dragged on his knees toward a police wagon.
Officers threw down a girl in her 20s wearing flip-flop shoes and handcuffed
her. A teen-ager riding a bicycle was knocked down by police in an unmarked car,
beaten and handcuffed.

Police and witnesses said the unrest appeared to be contained to 2 1/2 square
miles within Little Havana, with traffic stopped from entering.

State troopers shut down parts of the city's highway system near Little Havana
as they cleared protesters who climbed onto roads and stopped traffic. A
motorcycle trooper was struck by a car and seriously injured. Police said it
appeared to be an accident.

Protesters threw rocks, one smashing the rear window of a patrol car. One mob
chased and attacked a police spokesman, who escaped after sprinting for a block
while being punched and spit upon.

Many stood in the street, waving Cuban flags and upside down American flags.

"I've been quiet and kept in my home until now," said Ozzie Zamora. "But what
our country did today was wrong. Everyone should come out and protest."

Chanting protesters set fire to a pile of tires, rubbish and plastic trash cans
at an intersection about five blocks from the house where Elian was taken.

"I've seen a lot worse"

Miami police spokesman Detective Delrish Moss said charges against protesters
ranged from disorderly conduct to inciting a riot.

"The fortunate part of this whole thing is it is all contained," Moss said.
"Overall, I've seen a lot worse."

One protester who jumped through the glass window of a service station was
chased down by eight officers. They smashed his head into the ground, handcuffed
him and took him away.

At the home of Elian's relatives, a man who people said was a communist
infiltrator was beaten, kicked and poked in the eye by a mob of at least 20,
while others urged calm.

"We are not animals," a woman yelled as the scuffling crowd tumbled down the
street. "We don't want to be like Castro."

Many protesters lambasted President Bill Clinton and Attorney General Janet
Reno, who ordered the raid.

"Send Chelsea to Castro," said one protester's sign. "Reno, you have betrayed
our trust. Ten children in Waco and Elian condemned today," said another, a
reference to the 1993 raid on the Branch Davidian compound in Waco, Texas.

Others denounced the government for snatching Elian from his relatives' home the
day before Easter.

"This is a slap in the face to the Cuban-American community and the Christian
community," said Ralph Anrrich, a social worker.

Some of the more peaceful protesters decried the unrest.

"There's a lot of people doing the wrong thing. The escalation is just
ridiculous," said Omar Silva, 42, who carried a giant Cuban flag. "The community
is frustrated. It's been five long months, and we've been playing by Fidel's
rules."

LOAD-DATE: April 24, 2000

LANGUAGE: English

GRAPHIC: PHOTO Color Photo by WILFREDO LEE / THE ASSOCIATED PRESS - Some in a
crowd gathered outside the Miami home of Lazaro Gonzalez scream at a police
officer Saturday. The people were enraged at the federal raid earlier that
morning in which Elian Gonzalez was taken at gunpoint from the home. Officers
retreated from the block.

                  Copyright 2000 St. Louis Post-Dispatch, Inc.


                              366 of 457 DOCUMENTS

                       St. Louis Post-Dispatch (Missouri)

                April 23, 2000, Sunday, EARLY FIVE STAR EDITION

40,000 GATHER IN CUBA TO CELEBRATE ELIAN'S REUNION WITH HIS FATHER

BYLINE: The Associated Press

SECTION: NEWS, Pg. A6

LENGTH: 527 words

DATELINE: CENTRAL AUSTRALIA, CUBA



REACTION IN CUBA

Hundreds of thousands of jubilant Cubans streamed down a muddy road to a
historic sugar refinery on Saturday to celebrate Elian Gonzalez's reunion with
his father -- a breakthrough in the personal and political drama that has
gripped the island for five months.

"Elian, friend! Cuba is with you!" chanted an estimated 400,000 people called by
Cuba's communist government to gather at Central Australia, a well-known sugar
refinery and processing center. It was from here that Fidel Castro commanded
revolutionary troops who vanquished an exile army at the Bay of Pigs 39 years
ago last week.

"Fidel! Fidel" the crowd chanted when Castro arrived. Elian's four grandparents,
along with Vice President Carlos Lage and Foreign Minister Felipe Perez Roque,
stood in the first row of the crowd.

Elian's reunion with his father, in the early hours of Saturday, "was a very
emotional moment," said 50-year-old sugar worker Marta Morales. "All Cubans felt
the emotion that the father felt," she said. "We are here with open arms."

In Elian's hometown of Cardenas, a family friend, Gustavo Fernandez, said he had
spoken with Elian and his father, Juan Miguel, and that the 6-year-old boy did
not seem traumatized by his removal from the home of his Miami relatives.

"They're doing well," said Fernandez, who was staying in Juan Miguel's home
during his absence. "That boy is bright as a candle."

Cuban state radio first alerted the news shortly after 5 a.m. (4 a.m. St. Louis
time) after federal agents stormed the house of the Miami relatives who have
fought to keep him in the United States.

Later in the morning, state-run television rebroadcast CNN footage of the event
-- though it did not show a photo of armed agents finding the boy in a closet.

"It's a great joy for us. We're filled with satisfaction that the boy is with
his father," said Maura Casanas, 37, an industrial engineer who watched the
television coverage.

Small groups formed in the streets of Havana as people talked about the
development.

"I cried when I heard the news," said a smiling Migdalia Heredia, 51, a state
planning worker who almost danced down a rickety apartment staircase in Old
Havana to tell a friend.

Cuba's communist government has mobilized Cubans by holding mass protests nearly
every day for four months as well as extensive media coverage. But it has
discouraged spontaneous celebrations.

Cubans should be "serene, discreet and dignified, because any other form of
conduct could negatively influence the future evolution of the situation," said
a government statement broadcast on radio and television.

Still, Pedro Hernandez, a 69-year-old musician, said Cubans would raise their
glasses to toast the breakthrough.

"There are people who don't usually drink rum who are going to take a drink in
celebration," said Hernandez, clutching a guitar and wearing a straw hat and red
bandanna in Old Havana's Plaza de Armas square.

Otto Rivero, the head of the Union of Communist Youth, one of the groups that
organized the campaign for Elian, told Cuban radio that Cuba's campaign of mass
mobilizations would continue.

LOAD-DATE: April 24, 2000

LANGUAGE: English

GRAPHIC: PHOTO Color Photo from AGENCE FRANCE-PRESSE - Two women watch as a man
hangs a flag Saturday in the street where Elian Gonzalez's father lives in
Cardenas, Cuba. A government statement urged Cubans to remain "serene, discreet
and dignified" over the news that Elian had been reunited with his father.

                  Copyright 2000 St. Louis Post-Dispatch, Inc.


                              367 of 457 DOCUMENTS

                       St. Louis Post-Dispatch (Missouri)

                 April 23, 2000, Sunday, FIVE STAR LIFT EDITION

JUSTICE DEPARTMENT MADE ITS MOVE SWIFTLY AND FORCEFULLY WHEN "TIME HAD RUN;
OUT";
3-MINUTE OPERATION TOOK MIAMI BY SURPRISE, LEFT CHAOS AND RAGE

BYLINE: Ted Anthony; And Terry Spencer

SECTION: NEWS, Pg. A1

LENGTH: 1590 words

DATELINE: MIAMI


The white minivans hurtled from the darkness and screeched to a halt, and out
jumped the very people Little Havana had been bracing for. Government agents had
arrived, and they had come for Elian Gonzalez.

When the Justice Department moved, it moved powerfully. And when things finally
happened Saturday morning, they happened fast.

Battering ram to the front door. Agents pouring inside. Elian cowering in a
closet. An officer in riot gear pointing a gun and barking orders. The child,
crying and stunned, carried off to a waiting van. Pepper spray on a tense crowd.
From Elian: "Que esta pasando?" -- "What's happening?"

In three minutes, it was over, and a five-month standoff between the government
and Elian's Miami relatives had ended. And Elian was speeding toward a reunion
with his father, driven off into the night by a federal agent wearing a dark
mask.

Behind him, he left chaos.

Inside the modest stucco house, an anguished family tried to cope. Outside, a
stunned, enraged crowd -- growing quickly as word spread and supporters poured
into Miami's streets -- denounced the American government as anger spilled over.

Many demanded answers. Few had any. But as dawn broke, everyone knew one thing:
One hundred and fifty days after he was rescued from the sea that took his
mother, Elian Gonzalez was gone.

From quiet to chaos

Saturday outside Lazaro Gonzalez's house began, like so many others in recent
weeks, with demonstrators outside the house keeping a prayerful all-night vigil,
ready to form a human chain in case the government showed up.

But no one expected it to happen on the day between Good Friday and Easter, two
of Christianity's holiest holidays.

At about 2 a.m., Marisleysis Gonzalez, Elian's 21-year-old cousin and a mother
figure to the boy, sat outside a neighbor's house talking with a group of
people. Lazaro Gonzalez, the child's great-uncle, paced the yard looking somber.

The crowd, 450 strong just after midnight, dwindled through the night as it
often did, but more people remained than usual. By 5 a.m., minutes before the
raid, about 100 people were outside the house. The older ones sat in folding
chairs; the younger people stood in clusters and talked.

Carlos Ordonez, 24, an electrician who had kept vigil nearly every day for a
month, said more people stayed through the night because they were anticipating
a deal. "We're just waiting it out to see what happens and see if they're going
to come and take this child away," he said.

Added Olga Hernandez, 45, a Miami secretary: "I hope Mrs. Reno changes her mind,
and she doesn't use any force."

Inside the house, and in Washington, negotiations extended into the night.
Phones and faxes buzzed with activity as offers and counteroffers flew between
the government and family attorney Kendall Coffey. Two of Miami's wealthy
Cuban-American power brokers were helping him out.

At the White House, Chief of Staff John Podesta called President Bill Clinton at
2:15 a.m. to update him on negotiations. Clinton agreed that the talks should
continue -- as long as progress was being made.

Just before 5 a.m., Podesta told the president that negotiations had stalled,
and Reno was beginning to mobilize an operation. Reno, meanwhile, was telling
both sides that the moment of decision had arrived. She ordered the operation to
begin. "Time," she would say later, "had run out."

Then, Miami Police Chief William O'Brian, whom the government was relying on to
keep the peace outside, got his call: The raid, he was told, was an "absolute
go."

Outside the Gonzalez home, under mild, clear skies, nothing appeared to be
amiss. Some lawyers and mediators had gone down the street to get coffee. The
crowd was quiet. The legions of reporters were eating Cuban crackers that
someone had just distributed.

Then, suddenly, a shout came from the crowd: "They're here!"

A white van careened into the media area, knocking over a microphone stand and
nearly hitting a man, who jumped out of the way.

It was 5:15 a.m.

"What's happening?"

They rushed from their vans -- 151 of them, some with goggles and bulletproof
vests: 131 Immigration and Naturalization Service agents backed by 20 U.S.
marshals.

The Border Patrol agents wore dark green; the INS wore INS T-shirts. They darted
in, past the crowd, past the American flag, past the large crucifix, past the
sign that said "Keep Elian Free."

They knocked. They identified themselves in English and Spanish. "Open up! Open
up!" they yelled. After 20 seconds, they brought up the battering ram and --
pop! pop! pop! -- knocked down the door.

Other agents, carrying weapons and pepper spray, ran toward the crowd and
sprayed. Still others ordered the media to stay where they were.

Demonstrators, still stunned, were just realizing what was happening. Some tried
to form the human chain -- to keep Elian in, not keep agents out. Others,
knocked over, accused federal agents of assaulting them. "This is going to get
bad now," one man yelled.

Aaron Podhurst, a mediator between Reno and the Miami relatives, was on the
phone with family attorney Manny Diaz inside the house when the raid began. "The
phone went click," he said. "The marshals were coming in."

Inside, as the agents swarmed, the family scrambled. Elian, in Lazaro's room,
screamed, waking up Donato Dalrymple, the fisherman who rescued him from the
ocean on Thanksgiving Day.

"Que esta pasando?" Elian yelled. "What's happening?"

Dalrymple scooped up Elian and retreated into a closet. "Que esta pasando?"
Elian asked again. Agents banged on the bedroom door and entered. One Border
Patrol agent, wearing goggles and a helmet, raised a rifle toward the two. His
finger was not on the trigger.

Dalrymple raised his elbow in defense. The agent grabbed Elian and took him.
"Bingo! Bingo!" yelled another agent, signaling the mission's success.

In the living room, the family's advisers sat stunned. Across the room, an
enraged Lazaro Gonzalez, crying, was restrained by authorities.

A federal agent -- a woman -- ran out the front door encircled by other agents.
In her arms she cradled Elian, wrapped in a blanket, wearing a white T-shirt and
plaid shorts and looking bewildered. She spoke to him in Spanish, telling him he
was going to see his father.

Then she lifted him gently into the minivan as agents sprayed the crowd again.

"Go! Go! Go!" one agent yelled, and the van, driven by another agent in a dark
mask, sped backward down the street and off into the night. The others followed.

The Gonzalez house was a mess. The front door had an ugly gash from the
battering ram, and a bedroom door was torn jaggedly in half. In the corner of
the bedroom, a framed picture of Christ sat splayed in a corner.

Elian was gone.

It was 5:18 a.m.

"The right thing to do"

Outside, amid the din, some demonstrators hurdled barricades. Several tried to
re-establish the human chain, but it was too late. Some started throwing rocks
and full plastic water bottles. Men and women alike threw themselves on the
ground and cried.

A disconsolate Marisleysis Gonzalez emerged from the house and yelled,
denouncing the government. "This lady to me doesn't have a heart," she said of
Reno. Later, on live TV, she waved around a helmet left behind by an agent.

At 5:30 a.m., Clinton received a phone call telling him the raid had succeeded.
Just before 6, he called Reno to thank her. "There was no alternative," Clinton
said later. "The law has been upheld, and that was the right thing to do."

Elian and his convoy sped toward Watson Island, where he boarded a helicopter
bound for Florida's Homestead Air Force Base. There, he was examined by a doctor
and put on a U.S. marshal's plane bound for Andrews Air Force Base in Maryland.

Little Havana, meanwhile, was beginning to erupt. Protesters swarmed the
streets. By midmorning, police in riot gear were firing tear gas as they
struggled to contain the unrest.

"Clinton, coward, Miami is on fire!" demonstrators chanted after igniting a pile
of tires, garbage and plastic trash cans at an intersection five blocks from the
Gonzalez house.

Reno, on national television before most Americans awoke, called the raid
successful. A Miami native, she lamented that the problem could not be solved
within her hometown but made no apologies. "Elian Gonzalez is a child who needs
to be cherished," she said.

Eight hundred miles north, Elian's plane landed at 9:42 a.m. His father, Juan
Miguel Gonzalez, was waiting.

"They are together," announced Myron Marlin, a Justice Department spokesman.
Hours later, the father's lawyer, Greg Craig, released a photograph showing
Elian with his father at Andrews, where they will stay for several days. They
are posing with Juan Miguel's new wife and infant son.

Elian and his father are grinning broadly.

After five months, the little boy at sea, whose saga reached the highest levels
of the American government, is back with his father. His Miami relatives flew to
Washington -- to make sure the boy is safe and figure out what to do next.

And in Little Havana, thousands of angry supporters -- many of them on the
streets -- are wondering just how a country they viewed as a promised land could
forsake them so dramatically.

"I pulled this little boy from the ocean. And now I brought him to this country
of America, this free country, and he's been taken with guns," Dalrymple, the
fisherman, said. "What has happened in America?"

LOAD-DATE: April 24, 2000

LANGUAGE: English

GRAPHIC: PHOTO, GRAPHIC, MAP (1) Graphic / Illustration - Three minutes in
Little Havana
 Sequence of events in the seizure of Elian Gonzalez from relatives' house early
Saturday.
 1 - Armando Gutierez, outside at rear of house, hears federal agents coming to
the front of the back yard. He runs to the front of the house screaming,
"They're coming, they're coming!" He summons AP photograhper Alan Diaz.
 2 - Roberto Curbello Jr. hears Gutierrez's shouts, runs to the back, sees
federal agents and locks back door.
 3 - Donato Dalrymple, sleeping on a sofa in the entry, hears a knock at the
front of the house and gets up.
 4 - Donato scoops up Elian from Lezaro, who is sitting with the boy on a
loveseat in the living room, and runs to the rear bedroom where Angela Gonzalez
is sleeping.
 5 - Curbello grabs photographer Diaz and guides him to the rear bedroom.
 6 - Meanwhile, Marisleysis Gonzalez, Manny Diaz and Kendall Coffey are on
speaker phone with mediator Aaron Podhurst, who in turn is on the phone with
Janet Reno.
 7 - Agents using battering rams force open both the front and rear doors of the
house.
 8 - Marisleysis hears the commotion at the front of the house and runs into the
living room, where she is stopped by armed federal agents.
 9 - Donato goes to the rear bedroom with Elian and tries to hide in the closet.

 10 - Federal officers break down the door to the bedroom and pull Elian out.
 11 - Female immigration officer puts blanket over Elian and takes him out the
front door to a waiting van.
 (Schematic of the house shows the locations of AP photographer Alan Diaz, Front
door, Entry, INS federal agents, Elian and Marisleysis' bedroom, Bath, Rear
bedroom (where Angela was sleeping), Living room, Kitchen, Dining room, Shed and
Back door.
 RESEARCH: Miami Herald reporters
 GRAPHIC: HIRAM HENRIQUEZ, JERE WARREN / Miami Herald
 Copyright 2000 KRT

 (2) Map by THE NEW YORK TIMES - Gonzalez home in Miami
 (Three maps, each one in greater detail. One showing the location of Miami in
the United States. One is a close-up showing the location of Miami in Florida.
And one a close-up of the neighborhood, showing the location of the Miami home
of Elian Gonzalez.)
 (3) Color Photo by WILFREDO LEE / THE ASSOCIATED PRESS - Elian Gonzalez is
carried by a government agent as he is taken from his Miami relatives' home on
Saturday. The raid, which began at 5:15 a.m., was conducted by 131 Immigration
and Naturalization Service agents backed by 20 U.S. marshals. (Note: this photo
only appeared in the EARLY FIVE STAR Edition of this story on Page A4.)

                  Copyright 2000 St. Louis Post-Dispatch, Inc.


                              368 of 457 DOCUMENTS

                       St. Louis Post-Dispatch (Missouri)

                 April 23, 2000, Sunday, FIVE STAR LIFT EDITION

POLICE IN MIAMI BEAT PROTESTERS AS UNREST FLARES;
OTHERS IN LITTLE HAVANA PLEAD FOR RESTRAINT

BYLINE: The Associated Press

SECTION: NEWS, Pg. A4

LENGTH: 1000 words

DATELINE: MIAMI



THE PROTESTS

Riot police with batons and shields scuffled with demonstrators on the streets
of Little Havana on Saturday after Elian Gonzalez was snatched away by federal
agents. Police said more than 260 people were arrested.

The unrest continued all day after the pre-dawn raid on Lazaro Gonzalez's house,
with some protesters setting bonfires and uprooting concrete benches. Police
would clear out one area only to have another protest pop up a few blocks away
in the working-class neighborhood.

Protesters started more than 207 fires, mostly burning tires and trash.
Emergency crews answered 69 injury calls. A nearby hospital treated 11 people,
all for minor injuries.

Three police officers who were attacked with a baseball bat were hospitalized in
stable condition, said Miami Police Lt. Bill Schwartz. A 29-year-old man was
charged with attempted murder for the assault.

As evening fell, much of Little Havana appeared calm as police blocked cars from
entering the area and urged pedestrians to leave. On 27th Aven ue, the focus of
many of the protests Saturday, no cars could be seen -- except for police
cruisers at every intersection.

"From what I hear, it's going to get a lot worse. It's going to get pretty
nasty," said David Gonzalez, 23, who had participated in the day's protests.
"They're waiting for the night to fall."

At news conference earlier in the evening, Miami Mayor Joe Carollo and
Miami-Dade Mayor Alex Penelas called on the community to be peaceful but also
talked of their shock at the federal action.

"That never should have happened in such a way," Carollo said. "Not in America."

Minutes after the mayors urged calm, an angry crowd tore down the CNN tent at
the house where Elian had lived. Shouting "Get out, get out," several dozen
stormed into the tent and knocked its equipment over.

Scores of police wearing gas masks and helmets cleared the street. Later, police
officials told reporters they could no longer protect them.

A few hours later, no protesters remained. But a few blocks away, 70 police in
riot gear faced off against 60 booing protesters on street corners, with more
waving flags from apartment buildings.

Earlier, police in small groups or walking 30-strong down the avenues shooed
away protesters and scuffled with those that resisted.

An elderly man was handcuffed and dragged on his knees toward a police wagon.
Officers threw down a girl in her 20s wearing flip-flop shoes and handcuffed
her. A teen-ager riding a bicycle was knocked down by police in an unmarked car,
beaten and handcuffed.

"This is terrible," said Cristina Valdes, 67, who was among dozens of people
venting their anger by banging on a parked van. "I'm ashamed to be an American.
Clinton is a coward, coward, coward."

Police and witnesses said the unrest appeared to be contained to 21/2 square
miles within Little Havana, with traffic stopped from entering.

Miami police spokesman Detective Delrish Moss said charges against protesters
ranged from disorderly conduct to inciting a riot.

"The fortunate part of this whole thing is it is all contained," Moss said.
"Overall, I've seen a lot worse."

Police were not nearly so patient with demonstrators Saturday as they were in
early January, when hundreds of Cuban-Americans jammed downtown streets and tied
up traffic for hours to protest Attorney General Janet Reno's decision to return
Elian to his father. Police arrested about 100 people during those
demonstrations.

About 800,000 Cuban-Americans live in Miami-Dade County, accounting for 35
percent of its 2.1 million residents. In Tampa, Fla., several hundred people
protested peacefully Saturday evening.

Ramon Saul Sanchez, a protest organizer who had urged nonviolence, said he was
planning a work stoppage in Miami on Tuesday.

The demonstrations in Little Havana began within minutes after federal agents
swept in before dawn and took the 6-year-old boy from his great-uncle's home.

Protesters climbed onto state highways and stopped traffic near the airport,
while others deliberately slowed their vehicles. State troopers cleared them
away. A motorcycle trooper was struck by a car and seriously injured. Police
said it appeared to be an accident.

Many protesters refrained from violence, waving Cuban flags and upside-down
American flags.

"There's a lot of people doing the wrong thing. The escalation is just
ridiculous," said Omar Silva, 42, who carried a giant Cuban flag.

Others set fire to a pile of tires, rubbish and plastic trash cans at an
intersection a few blocks from the house where Elian was taken.

"I've been quiet and kept in my home until now," said Ozzie Zamora. "But what
our country did today was wrong. Everyone should come out and protest."

One protester who jumped through the glass window of a service station was
chased down by eight officers. They smashed his head into the ground, handcuffed
him and took him away.

At the home of Elian's relatives, a man who people said was a communist
infiltrator was beaten, kicked and poked in the eye by a mob of at least 20,
while others urged calm.

As the scuffling crowd tumbled down the street, a woman yelled, "We are not
animals. We don't want to be like Castro."

Two high school students, standing a few blocks from the worst of the unrest,
held up a bedsheet scrawled with this message: "Miami, Please Not Another L.A."

Photos were released after the boy was reunited with his father showing Elian
smiling. But protester Emy Peterson said Elian's father isn't the issue -- Fidel
Castro is.

"I'm sure he's happy to see his father, but we're talking about where he's going
back to," Peterson said. "He's going to be a trophy to be paraded around like
everything else."

Others predicted there would be no end to the demonstrations soon.

"It's not over yet. How can you forget something like this?" asked Ivette
Morales, 30. "It's been 40 years since the Bay of Pigs and we still haven't
forgotten that."

LOAD-DATE: April 23, 2000

LANGUAGE: English

GRAPHIC: PHOTO Color Photo by BETH A. KEISER / THE ASSOCIATED PRESS - Police
clash with protesters in the streets of the Little Havana neighborhood in Miami
where Elian Gonzalez had lived with his great-uncle. Protesters were
demonstrating against the raid Saturday in which Elian was taken from the home.

                  Copyright 2000 St. Louis Post-Dispatch, Inc.


                              369 of 457 DOCUMENTS

                       St. Louis Post-Dispatch (Missouri)

                 April 23, 2000, Sunday, FIVE STAR LIFT EDITION

RENO SENT AGENTS AFTER LONG NIGHT OF NEGOTIATIONS;
HER AIDES WATCHED RAID ON TELEVISION

BYLINE: The Associated Press

SECTION: NEWS, Pg. A5

LENGTH: 658 words

DATELINE: WASHINGTON



A PERSONAL CRUSADE

It was just past 4 a.m. Saturday, and Attorney General Janet Reno, at her desk
wearing a telephone headset, could wait no longer to decide whether to order
armed agents to seize Elian Gonzalez from his Miami relatives.

Reno already had decided that the meticulously planned operation would take
place in the pre-dawn hours Saturday. Surprise meant everything, and conditions
were right for the officers. The crowd in front of the Lazaro Gonzalez home in
Miami was as thin as it was going to get.

As the negotiations were recounted by Justice Department aides, who were sitting
on chairs, sofas and the floor around Reno's desk, the attorney general looked
around the room to see whether all agreed to proceed. They did, according to
officials who described the scene but would not be quoted by name.

At that moment, a Miami mediator asked for five more minutes. When nothing
happened, the attorney general turned to Doris Meissner, commissioner of the
Immigration and Naturalization Service, and gave the order to move.

While it had been a long night for Reno, it was just as taxing for mediators in
Miami more than 900 miles away. The mediators knew the negotiations had been
snagged during the night, but they were upbeat -- confident that an agreement
was not impossible. The lightning raid shocked them.

While Aaron Podhurst, the lead negotiator in Miami, waited on the phone for a
reply from Reno from a previous proposal, the raid began. "I was totally
surprised and shocked when the government seized the boy," he said.

In Reno's office, there were moments of unbearable tension and moments when
nothing was happening. One staff member brought back pizza. Another had time to
read "Voyage To The Bunny Planet," a book Reno was planning to read at the
Easter Egg Roll at the White House on Monday.

Aides said Reno was alternately subdued and passionate. She cajoled and argued
with Podhurst. One official said she used words like, "At some point, we're
going to have to do enforcement. We don't want to do it. We have to know, will
they bring the child? We have to have the child."

She also warned, "You're running out of time. There's no more time."

Reno's aides had prepared separate statements for her to read, one if a deal had
been reached and one for a breakdown.

Shortly before the decision was made, Reno went around the room to get
everyone's opinion. Everyone was nervous and silent for a moment. They all
nodded their approval.

At a news conference after the raid, Reno explained her move. "Every time we
thought we had achieved what (the Miami relatives) wanted, it wasn't enough. It
was a very frustrating experience. It was just one step after another in which
they moved the goal post."

The aides watched the raid on television. "They've got the kid," some one
yelled.

In a government van, agents pointed out the city lights to Elian and gave him a
toy plane to show him how he would be going to see "papa."

An INS agent who was in the van with Elian reported back, "This is one tough
little kid. I was shaking. He was not."

The attorney general's decision to use force has put her on the hot seat, a
place she's been before. It was seven years ago last week that, after protracted
negotiations, she ordered the FBI's botched assault on the Branch Davidian
compound at Waco that left some 80 people dead.

President Bill Clinton did his best to distance himself from Reno after Waco.
Saturday he quickly went before the cameras to praise the attorney general for
her "restraint, patience and compassion."

Asked about the harrowing photographs of the agents' forced entry into the house
to seize the frightened child, White House press secretary Joe Lockhart said the
president would have preferred a voluntary transfer of the boy, which is what
Reno had also long sought.

"That did not happen," Lockhart said. "We were left with no other alternatives."

LOAD-DATE: April 23, 2000

LANGUAGE: English

GRAPHIC: PHOTO Photo Headshot - (Attorney General Janet) Reno, Cajoled, argued
on phone

                  Copyright 2000 St. Louis Post-Dispatch, Inc.


                              370 of 457 DOCUMENTS

                       St. Louis Post-Dispatch (Missouri)

                 April 23, 2000, Sunday, FIVE STAR LIFT EDITION

CUBAN-AMERICANS HERE WERE ANGERED BY NEWS COMING OUT OF MIAMI

BYLINE: Michele Munz; And Nancy Cambria

SECTION: NEWS, Pg. A6

LENGTH: 647 words



ST. LOUIS REACTION

Many St. Louis residents who were asked Saturday about the forceful return of
Elian Gonzalez to his father said they believed the U.S. government had no other
choice but to take drastic measures. But Cuban-Americans in the St. Louis region
reacted angrily to the news and pictures that came from Florida.

After all-night negotiations with the boy's relatives in Miami failed, U.S.
Attorney General Janet Reno early Saturday ordered immigration agents armed with
guns to force their way into the relatives' home and snatch the boy.

In the aftermath, Cuban-Americans said they had received phone calls throughout
the day from incensed relatives in Miami.

"We are very disheartened and saddened that it has come this far," said Justo G.
Herrera of Blackjack, a former Cuban refugee who emigrated to the United States
in 1968 when he was only 14.

"I left my parents behind. I know what it is like for parents to let go of their
children for a better life," he said. "I don't know why anybody would let that
child go back. I feel his father is being very selfish.

"We believe Castro is behind everything."

Maria Trabanco, who operates the St. Louis grocery La Tropicana with her husband
Luis, said what she saw on CNN on Saturday morning was shocking.

"I never thought I would see something like that in this country," she said. "We
came to this country to be free. We came for democracy and human rights. When
they break these rights, what can you expect from this government?

"When you take people in the middle of the night -- that's Castro."

Others interviewed throughout the area had favorable reactions.

"I honestly think they had to go in their with guns," said Judith Messimer, 38,
from St. Louis. "I just wish the family could have been more reasonable . . .
They forced it this far."

Messimer, a producer for a Web site, said the relatives should not have been
allowed to keep the boy from his Cuban father, Juan Miguel Gonzalez. She is
happy the father and son are reunited. She said she suspected the relatives in
Miami were more interested in money and attention than what was best for the
boy.

Katherine Kornfeld, 38, also of St. Louis, said the government was backed into a
corner.

"It's too bad the family didn't turn him over," she said. "I think they had to
enforce the law at that point."

Chuck Ramsay, 51, of St. Louis said it was unfortunate that the boy had to be
taken in such a traumatic way, but he agreed that the boy's relatives were the
ones who let it go that far. He said that somehow, the political concerns of
Cuban refugees, who want the boy to stay in the U.S., overcast the idea of
parental custody.

"This has nothing to do with Cuba or the U.S., it's more to do with family,"
Ramsay said.

Others said that the family and the government are both at fault for letting the
issue drag on and culminate in the use of force. The father had arrived in the
U.S. more than two weeks ago to retrieve his son after about four months of
negotiations between government representatives and the relatives.

"It's been totally ridiculous," said Jeff Sanor, 37, of St. Louis. "They
should've stepped in and said that this is the way it is and turn him over to
his father."

Kate Krane, 46, visiting St. Louis from Chicago, also called the ordeal a
"ridiculous spectacle" that was dragged on by the government.

"It makes me wonder about the Cuban community in Miami. What gives them the
power to control our foreign policy?" she said.

One man, however, felt the government went over the line and should not have
scared the boy. He also said the boy's father is disturbed and can't "leave his
politics at the border."

"I think it's disgusting. I think it's government exercising power that they
shouldn't have," said Steve Johnson, 31, of St. Louis. "It was pretty alarming
to me."

LOAD-DATE: April 23, 2000

LANGUAGE: English

                  Copyright 2000 St. Louis Post-Dispatch, Inc.


                              371 of 457 DOCUMENTS

                       St. Louis Post-Dispatch (Missouri)

                 April 23, 2000, Sunday, FIVE STAR LIFT EDITION

KEY FIGURES IN THE ELIAN GONZALEZ CASE

BYLINE: The Associated Press

SECTION: NEWS, Pg. A4

LENGTH: 478 words


Elian Gonzalez: Found drifting in an inner tube off the Florida coast on Nov.
25, one of three survivors from a boat that sank. His mother and 10 others
fleeing Cuba died. The 6-year-old became the subject of an international
standoff, with his father demanding his return to Cuba and his Miami relatives
fighting to keep him in the United States.

Juan Miguel Gonzalez: Father of Elian. Gonzalez, 31, is a cashier at a Cuban
beach resort in his hometown of Cardenas, about two hours east of Havana. He
came to the United States this month to retrieve Elian. Gonzalez was divorced
from Elian's mother, Elisabeth Brotons. He and his current wife, Nersy, have a
6-month-old son, Hianny.

Lazaro Gonzalez: Great-uncle of Elian Gonzalez and uncle of Juan Miguel.
Gonzalez, 49, left Cuba in 1983 or 1984 and made a living repairing boats and
cars in Miami. He and his wife, Angela, have two children, Marisleysis, 21, and
William, 27. Lazaro Gonzalez was given temporary custody after Elian's rescue.

Marisleysis Gonzalez: Cousin of Elian Gonzalez. Often described as Elian's
surrogate mother, the 21-year-old is on leave from her job as a bank loan
processor. She was treated for exhaustion several times in recent weeks.

Greg Craig: Juan Miguel Gonzalez's U.S. lawyer. Craig, 55, was special counsel
for President Bill Clinton during his impeachment trial. He was an aide to Sen.
Edward Kennedy during the 1980s.

Kendall Coffey: An attorney for Lazaro Gonzalez. Coffey quit as U.S. attorney in
Miami in 1996 amid accusations that he had bitten a topless dancer on the arm at
a club where he had gone after losing a big drug case -- when two people accused
of smuggling $ 2.1 billion in cocaine were acquitted.

Donato Dalrymple: One of two fishermen who rescued Elian on Nov. 25. Dalrymple,
who is 40 and owns a housecleaning business, supported the Miami relatives'
efforts to keep Elian in the United States. He was in the Gonzalez home when
federal agents arrived. He grabbed Elian from the arms of his great-uncle and
hid in a bedroom closet. Agents took Elian from his arms.

Janet Reno: Nation's top law enforcement officer, she became personally involved
in the Elian Gonzalez case. Reno, a Miami native, was state prosecutor there for
15 years. She approved the raid Saturday to reunite Elian with his father.

Ramon Saul Sanchez: Activist in Cuban-American community. Sanchez, 46, head of
the Democracy Movement, has led traffic slowdowns, blocked the entrance to the
Port of Miami and threatened to clog traffic at Miami International Airport.

The Rev. Joan Brown Campbell: Former general secretary of the National Council
of Churches, which supported the boy's return to his father. A Baptist minister,
Campbell served as the host for Elian's grandmothers on their visit to the
United States and visited Juan Miguel Gonzalez in Havana.

LOAD-DATE: April 23, 2000

LANGUAGE: English

GRAPHIC: PHOTO Color Photo Headshots - Elian Gonzalez, Juan Miguel Gonzalez,
Lazaro Gonzalez, Marisleysis Gonzalez, Greg Craig, Kendall Coffey, Donato
Dalrymple, Janet Reno, Ramon Saul Sanchez and The Rev. Joan Campbell

                  Copyright 2000 St. Louis Post-Dispatch, Inc.


                              372 of 457 DOCUMENTS

                       St. Louis Post-Dispatch (Missouri)

                 April 24, 2000, Monday, FIVE STAR LIFT EDITION

REUNION

SECTION: EDITORIAL, Pg. B6

LENGTH: 605 words



ELIAN GONZALEZ

FIVE months of an agonizing custody battle came to an end in three climactic
minutes on Saturday morning. In a startling pre-dawn raid, agents of the
Immigration and Naturalization Service burst into the home of Lazaro Gonzalez,
scooped up 6-year-old Elian Gonzalez and sped off in a waiting van. Hours later,
the boy was reunited with his father, Juan Miguel Gonzalez.

But this is not the end of one child's incredible journey. Without the daily
Elian sightings, the highly charged demonstrations and constant media spotlight,
the raw emotions surrounding the case may subside. Now Elian must navigate the
unpredictable shoals and reefs of the legal system.

For the moment, it's impossible to shake two haunting images from Saturday: The
terrified Elian facing an armed federal agent, and the smiling Elian, his arms
slung around his father. The two photographs proved once again that the case is
a political Rohrshach test. Was the "intervention," as it's being
bureaucratically called, a mirror image of the infamous Communist knock on the
door in the middle of the night, followed by the disappearance into a sugar-cane
Gulag?

Or was it a bold commando rescue of a child held a brainwashed hostage to an
anachronistic Cold War hatred, a child forced to videotape his reverse ransom
note? Or was it an almost surrealistic depiction of the kind of heightened,
extreme emotions that accompany any hotly disputed child custody case? Was the
amateur photo of a relaxed, beaming Elian released later in the day a
vindication of the heavy-handed rescue and a father's claim? Or was it, as the
Miami relatives assert, a phony?

In the immediate aftermath, with many facts still in question, it is difficult
to separate reason from emotion when examining the events. The intervention
certainly looked like overkill, with armed agents ramming the front door and
brandishing weapons. There are as yet unanswered questions about whether the
officers' language consisted of crisp orders not to interfere or whether they
threatened to shoot the Miami relatives if they didn't release the boy, as the
Miami relatives claim. Did Attorney General Janet Reno, obviously mindful of
Waco, overreact or make doubly sure to prevent another debacle? Wasn't there a
less confrontational way to secure the boy? Was a settlement imminent, as
mediators claimed?

Yet, even with these questions and doubts, certain things are clear. The case
had long ago reached an impasse. The Miami relatives, whose legal strategy was
built on stonewalling the government, weren't going to give up Elian. They had
ample opportunity to do so and refused. In some respects, the Miami relatives
had boxed themselves in. By constantly escalating the stakes, they made any
transfer of custody look like their defeat, an outcome to be resisted at all
costs. So the lightning-quick rescue which, by the grace of God, did not end in
bloodshed.

From the overheated atmosphere of Little Havana, the case now goes to the more
orderly setting of a courtroom. There the judges will have to consider a
question with potentially far-reaching consequences: Is a 6-year-old competent
to seek political asylum on his or her own? Obviously, it's fair to ask whether
any 6-year-old, especially one who's now a national hero, is subject to
political manipulation. It is unfair to expect a 6-year-old to shoulder the
weight of such a life-changing decision, especially when a loving father is
present. If the court now should dismiss the father's custody rights, it will
once again set Elian adrift, away from the safe harbor of his father's love.

LOAD-DATE: April 24, 2000

LANGUAGE: English

                  Copyright 2000 St. Louis Post-Dispatch, Inc.


                              373 of 457 DOCUMENTS

                       St. Louis Post-Dispatch (Missouri)

                April 25, 2000, Tuesday, FIVE STAR LIFT EDITION

ELIAN GONZALEZ CASE GENERATES LOTS OF QUESTIONS; HERE ARE SOME ANSWERS

SECTION: NEWS, Pg. A9

LENGTH: 939 words


* The seizure of Elian Gonzalez on Saturday morning has raised questions about
the raid. The case of the Cuban boy, rescued from the ocean, involves issues of
immigration, custody and family law. Here are some answers.

===

* Why did the INS originally grant the Miami relatives temporary custody?

The Miami family came forward to claim custody of Elian; his father had called
asking about shipwrecks of Cubans. A few days after Elian's rescue, the
Immigration and Naturalization Service said that because Lazaro Gonzalez was a
close relative, the service had released the boy into his custody for
humanitarian reasons. An INS agent said then that the child's custody status
would probably be decided by the state courts of Florida.

* What happened to the other two Cuban survivors picked up with Elian? Were they
sent back or granted asylum?

The Atlanta Constitution says the two are Arianne Horta, 22, and Nivaldo
Fernandez, 33, both of whom apparently were last reported to be wor king at a
car dealership in Miami and both of whom wish to remain in the United States.
U.S. law grants them that right, because they physically made it to land --
unlike Elian Gonzalez, who was rescued at sea.

* Did the INS have a court order to take the boy?

Yes. As of 6 p.m. Friday, a federal magistrate judge had signed a search warrant
granting the INS the authority to remove the boy from the house.

* Was Elian taken to Mass on Easter Sunday?

There were no reports Sunday that Elian had attended Mass at Andrews Air Force
Base outside Washington. The Miami Herald reported the week before that the Rev.
Joan Brown Campbell, former general secretary of the National Council of
Churches, said Juan Miguel Gonzalez is Catholic. She arranged for him to attend
Shiloh Baptist Church in Washington on Palm Sunday. The Washington Post, also
reporting on the visit to the same church, said Gonzalez described himself as a
nonbeliever, although he and Elian had been baptized "in the tradition of many
Cubans who have kept up Catholic customs."

* Who is the woman INS agent who carried Elian out of the house?

She is Special Agent Betty Ann Mills, 33, of Hollywood, Fla., a suburb of Miami.
She is described as an eight-year veteran of the agency. She accompanied Elian
on his flight to Andrews Air Force Base, Md., aboard a U.S. Marshals Service
plane.

* Who's paying for the relatives' trip and stay in Washington?

The Cuban American National Foundation, which has been behind the family from
the start, was reported to be helping with arrangements in Washington.

* Are there unpublished pictures showing an agent's finger on the trigger of his
automatic weapon?

One unpublished photo shows a man wearing a Border Patrol flak vest and cradling
an automatic weapon in a way that could indicate a finger on the trigger. But
it's difficult to say with certainty either way. Also in the photo is Angela
Gonzalez, great-aunt of Elian. She has a stoic expression on her face and is
staring off at what seems to be nothing in particular. The faces of the two men
in Border Patrol vests are turned away from the camera. They apparently are in a
hallway outside a bedroom, not in a bedroom itself, although that's not totally
clear. The picture does not show the boy. The photograph got little or no play
in newspapers and on TV. Post-Dispatch photo chief Larry Coyne said it lacked
photographic value. "It's not a good picture," he said.

* When the federal agents went into the house, why did they have to dress and
act as if they were dislodging a terrorist cell? Why didn't at least the people
entering the house wear street clothes with bulletproof vests beneath and
handguns that didn't appear so ominous?

Attorney General Janet Reno said in the hours right after the raid that the
government had had information suggesting that weapons might have been stashed
in the house or among the crowd outside. INS Commissioner Doris Meissner said:
"We had information, a great deal of information. Some of that information
included the possibility that there might be guns." The New York Times quoted
retired Miami police Officer John P. Julian as saying: "Florida is a place where
most people have a right to carry a concealed firearm. If the agents had been
unarmed -- and one had been shot -- the public would have asked, 'Why weren't
they armed?' " Police raids are traditionally marked by speed, surprise and an
overwhelming display of force, all to stun and intimidate those being raided. In
this case, the raiders also faced a potentially hostile response from the crowd
outside the house.

* Was Elian in a school in Miami? Will he be going to school in the Washington
area while awaiting the court ruling? Or is he being tutored privately?

Elian attended elementary school in Cuba before coming here. His Miami relatives
enrolled him in school in Florida. But late last month, when the Miami relatives
feared that the government planned to take custody of Elian, they kept him home
from school. He did not return to school, but the relatives say he was tutored
at his great-uncle's home. The government hasn't announced its plans for
schooling Elian.

* Now that the senior Gonzalez is in another jurisdiction, what's to prevent him
from getting another court order allowing him take his family home?

On Wednesday, the 11th U.S. Circuit Court of Appeals, based in Atlanta, enjoined
anyone from taking Elian out of the United States pending further action on his
custody case. The court also ordered the Justice Department to take steps to be
sure that he doesn't leave the country.

LOAD-DATE: April 25, 2000

LANGUAGE: English

GRAPHIC: PHOTO (1) Color PHOTO by THE ASSOCIATED PRESS - At the Marcel Saldo
school in Cardenas, Cuba, the former teacher and classmates of Elian Gonzalez on
Monday look at a picture of the boy with his father, Juan Miguel Gonzalez, in
Washington. The teacher is Yamilin Morales Delgado.
 (2) Color PHOTO by THE ASSOCIATED PRESS - Angela Gonzalez watches as federal
agents move in to take her great-nephew Elian from her home in a raid Saturday
in Miami.

                  Copyright 2000 St. Louis Post-Dispatch, Inc.


                              374 of 457 DOCUMENTS

                       St. Louis Post-Dispatch (Missouri)

                April 25, 2000, Tuesday, FIVE STAR LIFT EDITION

ELIAN CUSTODY CASE FAVORS BOY'S FATHER, JUDGE HERE SAYS;
BUT BEST INTEREST OF CHILD IS ALWAYS A FACTOR, HE SAYS

BYLINE: Tim Bryant; Of The Post-Dispatch

SECTION: NEWS, Pg. A1

LENGTH: 495 words


Take away a federal appeals court, the attorney general, the immigration agency
and the news media worldwide, and the international fight over Elian Gonzalez is
a routine custody battle.

It has the same ingredient -- a warring family -- that family court judges
handle in all but the simplest cases. And as a strictly family court matter, it
could be a no-brainer, St. Louis Juvenile Court Judge Thomas Frawley said
Monday.

Without a specific finding to the contrary, Elian's father is presumed to be a
fit parent, Frawley said, citing case law. There can be no custody fight
involving the boy's mother because she is dead, the judge noted.

Therefore, Elian would go with his father, Juan Miguel Gonzalez.

"Case closed; next case," said Frawley, who for many years headed the city's
Family Court.

But ...

What if some family members insist the child should not be returned to the
father? If the dispute gets loud enough, the judge can appoint a guardian to
represent the child and gather evidence to help the judge make a good decision.

The presumption that the surviving parent retains custody remains strong, but
judges must make sure the decision is in the best interest of the child, Frawley
said.

The Florida family court in Miami has played virtually no role in Elian's case;
it said federal courts had jurisdiction because Elian was not an American
citizen. In addition to being separated from his father, the boy has not
attended school for weeks.

The proper thing could have been for a judge there to find Elian truant and get
him into school, Frawley said.

"It's a terrible injustice we've done to this young man," Frawley said.

Elian's ordeal is unlikely to end soon, said Stephen Legomsky, who teaches
immigration law at the Washington University School of Law.

"This case has the potential to drag on for a long time," Legomsky said. " Even
if everybody expedites matters, we're talking at least a year or so."

Pending in the federal appeals court in Atlanta is the challenge by Elian's
Miami relatives to the decision by the Immigration and Naturalization Service
that the boy belongs with his father.

Legomsky said a three-judge panel of the court may be reading the law too
literally in suggesting that Elian should help decide for himself whether he
wants to seek asylum in the United States.

In a ruling last week that keeps Elian in the country until at least next month,
the court criticized the INS for making its decision without interviewing the
boy.

Legomsky suggested that the INS short-circuit further criticism by interviewing
Elian before the next court hearing.

"There is no reason for the INS to wait," he added.

The agency would likely confirm its decision, Legomsky said. In addition, now
that Elian is away from his Miami relatives, he may decide he prefers to be with
his father, said Legomsky, adding that the boy has endured enough.

"I feel so badly for this kid," he said.

LOAD-DATE: April 25, 2000

LANGUAGE: English

                  Copyright 2000 St. Louis Post-Dispatch, Inc.


                              375 of 457 DOCUMENTS

                       St. Louis Post-Dispatch (Missouri)

                April 27, 2000, Thursday, FIVE STAR LIFT EDITION

REUNION WILL BEGIN ELIAN'S HEALING, EXPERTS PREDICT

BYLINE: Philip Dine; Post-Dispatch Washington Bureau

SECTION: NEWS, Pg. A8

LENGTH: 459 words

DATELINE: WASHINGTON


Two leading U.S. experts on refugee children agree that while the seizure of
6-year-old Elian Gonzalez was stressful for him, it may mark the beginning of
the Cuban boy's recovery from five months of trauma.

It will take Elian time to recover from being adrift at sea, capsizing, seeing
people drown and losing his mother, then being separated from his father and in
the custody of relatives with a strong political agenda, said Adrienne Aron of
Berkeley, Calif., and Rona Fields of Alexandria, Va.

"From the time he was taken on the boat to brave the elements, he was in a state
of prolonged traumatic stress every bit as much as any hostage has ever
undergone," said Fields, executive director of Associates in Community Health
and Development, which helps refugees and child victims of violence.

Trauma results when someone is helpless to do anything about extremely difficult
circumstances, she said, and for Elian, that involved "the whole ordeal from the
time he left Cuba until he was back in his father's arms."

Fields said that from a psychological point of view, the father, Juan Miguel
Gonzalez, did the right thing while Elian was in Miami with the relatives by not
"jumping into the fray and further upsetting things. He was willing to pursue a
more rational course. As far as I can see, he did nothing to further traumatize
the child, and that was in contrast to what these relatives were doing. He put
the interest of the child over his own selfish needs, and that's what a parent
is."

Aron is a clinical psychologist who in the mid-1980s introduced the notion that
post-traumatic stress disorder was prevalent among refugees. She said that most
refugees must recover from traumatic conditions they faced before reaching their
destination.

But in Elian's case, that situation continued once he arrived in the United
States.

"It seems as if for the whole time he was in Miami, his psychological state was
really ignored," Aron said. "They were using this boy for their personal agenda.
They were not even responding to his need to be with his principal caretaker,
the father, at a time of great trauma.

"Those crowds that were surrounding the house - imagine what it means to be a
small child and those angry, boisterous people are outside the house. That in
itself was like a state of siege for the boy."

The seizing of Elian was "a terrible thing" for him emotionally, Aron said, "but
when I heard the account of how he was accompanied, of how they stayed with him
until he got to his father, it sounds as if they had taken into consideration
his psychological state."

Now, Elian needs normalcy and quiet, the two said. Getting reacquainted with his
father and bonding with his new half brother will be key.

LOAD-DATE: April 27, 2000

LANGUAGE: English

                  Copyright 2000 St. Louis Post-Dispatch, Inc.


                              376 of 457 DOCUMENTS

                       St. Louis Post-Dispatch (Missouri)

                April 27, 2000, Thursday, FIVE STAR LIFT EDITION

CREVE COEUR TEEN HELPS IMMIGRANTS LEARN LANGUAGE OF THEIR NEW HOME

BYLINE: Nancy Cambria; Of The Post-Dispatch

SECTION: WEST POST, Pg. 1

LENGTH: 779 words


* Alex Sukhodolsky was helping his Russian grandparents study for their American
citizenship tests when he realized how great the need for tutoring was.

Alex Sukhodolsky, 16, may lack Regis Philbin's dramatic delivery but he has a
knack for slowly and carefully asking questions.

For the older Russian immigrants who hang on the Creve Coeur teen-ager's every
word, reciting the answers in English can win them the most priceless prize of
all: American citizenship.

Every other Saturday, Alex helps St. Louis-area Russian immigrants study for the
U.S. citizenship test.

His method is simple. Recite one of the 100 different questions that may be
asked in the test in Russian first. Then repeat the question as slowly and
clearly as possible in English, again and again until the entire class can
understand.

His grateful students are decades apart in age from their young teacher. Of the
estimated 3,000 Russian immigrants in the St. Louis area, his students represent
the 10 percent who are 65 or older. Most are the oldest members of entire
Russian families who have relinquished both their homeland and their Russian
citizenship to follow their children and gr andchildren to this country for a
better life.

These elderly refugees yearn to be American citizens. But their ages and their
shyness about speaking a new language often can stand in the way of their dream,
Alex says.

"When you get older, it's just harder to learn," he said. "They have a hard time
with the English." And since the questions are asked in English, they don't feel
very confident even if they do know the answer.

Last month, the Parkway South High School junior was one of 25 teens from across
the nation recognized by "react" magazine, the teen version of Parade, for
outstanding volunteer service. In addition to his weekend classes, the magazine
honored Alex for developing a Web site, audio tapes and other materials to help
Russian immigrants pass the test.

Alex is modest about his accomplishments. But his proud parents, Natalie and
Jacob, are the first to remind him that what he does is critical.

"When the older ones come to America, they are really coming to be with their
families," said Natalie. "The younger people are able to have a part in society.
For the older ones, it's really hard. They're more cut off from society. So when
they become a citizen, this is something they are really proud that they have
accomplished."

Evelyn Young, director of Jewish Family and Children's Services, says the
organization has helped to resettle two large waves of Russian immigrants to the
St. Louis area in the past 25 years. Her group recently received federal money
to conduct similar classes for the elderly. She agreed that U.S. citizenship was
the ultimate prize for most refugees.

"They want to become full members of the United States," she said. "They want to
vote. They want to take ownership of their country."

The Sukhodolskys immigrated to St. Louis from the Ukraine in 1989 when Alex was
5. Alex's father, a computer science professor at Saint Louis University, was
the only family member who spoke English. For Alex, learning the language was
easy. But he said this was not the case for his grandparents, Zil and Berth.
When they took the naturalization test in 1996, Alex and his brother, Yury,
helped them study. They soon discovered his grandparents weren't the only ones
struggling to memorize the answers. In fact, many of the Russian tenants in his
grandparents' St. Louis apartment building grappled with the same problem.

"There were about 30 elderly people in my grandfather's building getting ready
for the test," Alex explained. "Me and my brother and grandpa came up with the
idea of helping out everyone in the building."

There are 100 different questions about American history and government that can
be asked on the test. Although the test is given verbally, the questions are
asked by the examiner in English, and the answers must be r ecited in English.
The questions can range from something as simple as naming the president to
something as difficult as explaining the electoral college.

"A lot of times, they know more than they think they know," Alex said.  "It's
just a matter of getting them confident with their answers."

So far, he has directly helped more than 25 people pass the test. Although
working with people more than three times his age requires patience, he does not
consider his work a chore.

"We don't just talk about the test," he said. "We always talk about current
events. It gives me a better Russian vocabulary, and I hear so many different
stories about what they've been through."

LOAD-DATE: April 27, 2000

LANGUAGE: English

GRAPHIC: PHOTO (1) Color Photo by AARON BURG - Alex Sukhodolsky holds
citizenship class for five elderly Russian immigrants at the Crown Center
retirement home in University City. Here, he helps Vil Gerno recite the Pledge
of Allegiance.
 (This photo appeared in black and white in the NORTH POST.)
 (2) Photo by AARON BURG - Alex Sukhodolsky puts test questions on the board.

                  Copyright 2000 St. Louis Post-Dispatch, Inc.


                              377 of 457 DOCUMENTS

                       St. Louis Post-Dispatch (Missouri)

                 April 30, 2000, Sunday, FIVE STAR LIFT EDITION

PHOTOS OF ELIAN'S SAGA MIGHT SHOW HOW EDITORS AREN'T CONNECTED WITH READERS

BYLINE: Carolyn Kingcade

SECTION: IMAGINE ST. LOUIS, Pg. B4

LENGTH: 1120 words


In the newsroom, there was little discussion. This was the photograph to use. It
showed a federal agent with goggles in green riot gear with rifle drawn toward a
startled man holding a frightened Elian Gonzalez.

Weekend editor Steve Parker said the photo was taped to his computer with this
message from a photographer: "Congratulations. You have the opportunity to run a
Pulitzer Prize photo."

Parker was in early Saturday afternoon to begin a long day remaking the Sunday
paper.

Last Sunday, the Post-Dispatch and most newspapers across the country played the
picture big on the front page. In most cases, the photo was accompanied by a
smaller portrait of Elian reunited with his father, in which both appeared
relaxed and happy.

But many readers here and across the country disagreed with the emphasis placed
on the picture from the raid.

The pre-dawn raid Saturday by 151 federal agents to reunite the 6-year-old Cuban
boy with his father provided a dramatic climax to the five-month international
tug of war. The boy was rescued on Thanksgiving Day from the waters near Miami
after a boat capsized, killing his mother and her boyfriend and several other
Cubans who were fleeing to the United States.

That he survived seemed just short of, if not, a miracle.

Relatives living in Miami were granted guardianship while the U.S. Immigration
and Naturalization Service decided whether to return Elian to his father in
Cuba.

International politics and parental rights became entangled as Elian's relatives
resisted efforts to return the boy to Cuba. Thousands of Cuban-Americans in
Miami demonstrated their support of Elian's great-uncle Lazaro Gonzalez and his
family.

Finally, the boy's father, Juan Miguel Gonzalez, came to the United States three
weeks ago to be reunited with his son. The government had approved of switching
custody from his great-uncle to his father.

Meanwhile, the boy was to remain in the United States until a federal appeals
court hears arguments on whether Elian can seek asylum.

Attorney General Janet Reno ordered the raid after she saw no progress in
negotiations to hand over Elian to his father.

There was no question that the raid was big news. There were no comments about
how the stories were written or about the stories selected. The comments were
all about the photos and headlines.

So what went into selecting the photos?

Parker, the weekend editor, said, "We quickly decided we needed both photos, the
one of Elian and his father and one from the raid." Also involved in the
discussion were photo editors Larry Coyne and Teak Phillips, executive editor
Richard Weil and page designer David Sheets.

Parker said there was no question of whether the photo of Elian and his father
should be the larger of the two. The raid photo had the action and captured
forever a part of the story that words could not tell.

The photo was prized among editors across the country for the difficulty factor
as well. It's a picture photojournalists usually only dream of getting. It was
taken by Alan Diaz, a free-lance photographer for The Associated Press, who was
camped out at Lazaro Gonzalez's home in Miami, along with a bevy of other
journalists.

When the raid began, Diaz entered the house and was guided by associates of
Elian's relatives to the bedroom where the photo was taken. Donato Dalrymple,
one of the fishermen who had rescued the boy at sea, and who was keeping vigil
with others at the home, had carried him into the bedroom closet to hide.

Diaz was in the room when the agent burst in and found Dalrymple in the closet
holding Elian. The photographer shot a series of photos in the room. Parker said
they considered using a sequence of photos but found that they didn't differ
enough to justify it.

Readers' opinions on Elian's case might have played a part in how they viewed
the photos. Most of the readers who shared their views saw less value than
editors did in the prize-winning quality of the picture, its drama or its
uniqueness. They also believed the raid was a necessary means to the right end,
reuniting Elian with his father. We heard from fewer readers who criticized the
raid. Those who did had no qualms with the play of the photos.

But some newspapers chose to give equal treatment to the two main photos. The
Washington Post played the photos exactly the same size, side by side.

"It was the only responsible thing to do," said Joe Elbert, assistant managing
editor for photography at the Washington Post. Both photos, in his opinion, had
problems.

The photo from the raid was dramatic but Elbert said he worried about the
objectivity involved in shooting it. "That one still troubled me," Elbert said.

He was curious enough to find out more about Diaz, the photographer, and to
request all the photographs that Diaz shot in the house. The photo of Elian and
his father also was troubling because it was a handout from the father's lawyer.

Elbert decided that by playing them equally, readers could determine for
themselves the more significant event.

Some papers gave the photo of the agent secondary treatment, either as a smaller
photo or placed it on an inside page. Early editions of The New York Times had a
large photo of the woman agent carrying Elian to the government van. Small and
below the fold was the photo of the agent. Later editions gave top play to the
full photo of Elian reunited with his father, which included his stepmother and
brother.

Timing was another tricky factor for most newspapers. The raid happened about
4:15 a.m. Saturday (St. Louis time) without warning, of course, to editors. The
Post-Dispatch street edition of the Sunday paper was ready for the presses. The
home edition of the Sunday paper would hit lawns a full 24 hours after the raid.
Most editors are conscious of spinning the story ahead for their readers in a
situation like this. The raid was gathering dust in the news cycle while the
reunion of Elian and his father was fresher news. Nevertheless, editors also had
to capture the raid as a major turning point in the story of Elian. So, some of
them played the reunion photo bigger to be more timely.

The arguments on both sides are compelling. But the Post-Dispatch and other
newsrooms should wonder whether the way journalists called it and the way
readers saw it are evidence of the disconnect with readers we hear about so
often now.

Editors will differ in their decisions, but the responsibilities in reflection
are the same. Editors have an obligation to stand back from the sudden impact of
a dramatic photo to assess its news value. In doing so, the goal should be to
use the photo in the way that accurately tells the story.

LOAD-DATE: June 26, 2000

LANGUAGE: English

GRAPHIC: PHOTO (1) Photo by ALAN DIAZ / THE ASSOCIATED PRESS - The two photos
taken April 22 show starkly contrasting images. At left, federal agents invade
the home in Miami of Elian Gonzalez's relatives before dawn and find Elian in a
bedroom closet. He is being held by Donato Dalrymple, one of the fishermen who
rescued the boy off the Florida coast on Thanksgiving. The photo was taken by a
free-lance photographer who slipped into the home as the raid began.
 (2) Photo from AGENCE FRANCE-PRESSE - At right, hours after the raid, Elian and
his father, Juan Miguel Gonzalez, beam after being reunited for the first time
in five months at Andrews Air Force Base near Washington. The photo was
distributed by Juan Miguel Gonzalez's attorney.

TYPE: Carolyn Kingcade Readers' Advocate Column

                  Copyright 2000 St. Louis Post-Dispatch, Inc.


                              378 of 457 DOCUMENTS

                       St. Louis Post-Dispatch (Missouri)

                 April 30, 2000, Sunday, FIVE STAR LIFT EDITION

THE OLD IMMIGRATION STATION LOOKS AS GOOD AS NEW

SECTION: TRAVEL & LEISURE, Pg. T5

LENGTH: 557 words


The same ferry that takes visitors to the Statue of Liberty also stops at nearby
Ellis Island. The ferry is so spartan and so full of people speaking a variety
of languages that it's not hard to imagine yourself as one of the 12 million
immigrants between 1892 and 1954 whose first stop in America was the island's
main building.

The red-brick building was built in 1897 after a fire destroyed the original
wood structure. For something that was intended solely as an immigration
station, the building is incredibly ornate, highlighted by limestone trim and
four cupola-type towers.

Visitors enter just as immigrants did -- into the baggage room on ground level.
The first display within view is a large collection of original baggage that
immigrants' descendants donated to the Ellis Island Immigration Museum.

On the same floor are theaters that show a moving, 25-minute orientation film by
Charles Guggenheim, narrated by Gene Hackman, with video consisting of old
photos and grainy archival film footage. Most of the museum's fascinating photos
were the work of Augustus Sherman, an Ellis Island clerk who, because of an
interest in photography, took it upon himself to record the immigrants' images.

After climbing a flight of stairs, visitors arrive in the Great Hall, a vast
room with a vaulted ceiling. This is where immigrants waited in long lines,
often for many hours, during the processing stage. Today, the hall is bright and
airy, having been refurbished to look as good as new.

Ellis Island closed as an immigration station in 1954. Over the next 20-plus
years, it sat abandoned and deteriorating until it opened to the public in 1976
for limited seasonal visitation. Ellis Island was closed in 1984 for a $ 170
million restoration project, and then reopened for year-round tourism in 1990.

Among the museum's displays are:

* Personal possessions that immigrants brought over from the old country,
including photographs, clothing, documents, kitchen utensils, Bibles and prayer
books.

* Train schedules that immigrants used on their way to their new hometowns.

* Medical instruments, including buttonhooks that doctors used during the
inspection process. They used the buttonhooks to raise eyelids, a process that
identified the disease trachoma. Immigrants with certain diseases were detained
and either treated or sent back to their home countries.

* A beautifully restored hearing room, where immigrants who were being deported
had one last chance to plead their cases.

========

If you go

Getting there: Take the subway to the South Ferry stop. From there, it's a short
walk to Battery Park and the Statue of Liberty ferry, which leaves for Liberty
Island and Ellis Island every 30 minutes from 9 a.m. to 3:30 p.m.

Hours: Ellis Island is open every day except Christmas, 9 a.m. to 5:30 p.m.,
with extended hours in the summer and holiday periods.

Ferry tickets: $ 7 adults; $ 6 seniors; $ 3 children 3-17; free for children
under 3. This fee covers both the round-trip ferry ride and admission to both
islands. Tickets must be purchased in cash at booths at Battery Park.
Ranger-guided tours are available.

More information: Ellis Island, New York, N.Y. 10004; 212-269-5755 (ferry
information), 212-363-3200 (Liberty Island and Ellis Island). Web site:
www.nps.gov/stli/.

LOAD-DATE: April 30, 2000

LANGUAGE: English

GRAPHIC: PHOTO PHOTO by RON COBB/POST-DISPATCH - The Great Hall at Ellis Island
was often jammed with immigrants awaiting processing.

                  Copyright 2000 St. Louis Post-Dispatch, Inc.


                              379 of 457 DOCUMENTS

                       St. Louis Post-Dispatch (Missouri)

                  May 1, 2000, Monday, FIVE STAR LIFT EDITION

SLAYING SUSPECT HAD AN IMMIGRATION 'MANIFESTO';
FORMER LAWYER HAD HISTORY OF MENTAL ILLNESS, FRIENDS AND LAWYER SAY

BYLINE: The Associated Press

SECTION: NEWS, Pg. A3

LENGTH: 485 words

DATELINE: PITTSBURGH


A man arrested in a killing rampage that left three immigrants, a Jewish woman
and a black man dead has a history of mental illness and irrational fears that
he was being watched, both his former friend and his attorney said Sunday.

Police searching the home where the man, Richard Scott Baumhammers, 34, lived
before Friday's attacks also found a three-page manifesto indicating he was
trying to form a political party opposed to immigration, the Pittsburgh
Post-Gazette reported.

The document advocated the rights of Americans of European descent and denounced
Third World immigration, according to a prosecution source whom the newspaper
didn't name. Baumhammers' signed the paper as "chairman" of the Free Market
Party.

"From what I saw and from what I read, it seemed to advocate violence," the
source said.

Investigators reconstructing Friday's shootings believe that Baumhammers walked
into his neighbor's house and fatally shot interior designer Anita Gordon, 63,
who was Jewish. They believe he then drove to her synagogue and fired at the
front doors.

Police say Baumhammers also shot up the doors of another synagogue, shot and
wounded one man and killed another at an Indian grocery, killed a Vietnamese
delivery driver and a Chinese manager at a restaurant and gunned down a black
man at a suburban karate school. Officers eventually cornered him about 20 miles
from the first attack.

Baumhammers has been charged in one death, that of Garry Lee, 25, the karate
school victim. More charges are expected.

Baumhammers' attorney, William Difenderfer, said Sunday that his client has a
history of mental illness, though he wouldn't elaborate.

"It is way too early to say anything," he said.

A neurologist who had befriended Baumhammers in an Internet chat group dedicated
to Latvia in eastern Europe, where Baumhammers' parents were born, and had
traveled with him, said Baumhammers often expressed paranoid ideas and sometimes
believed he was being followed.

"Some of the things he said were just so outlandish," Dr. George Naruns said
Sunday from his home in St. Petersburg, Fla.

Baumhammers was trained in immigration law but hadn't practiced in recent years.
He listed his parents' address for his business, Baumhammers Law Firm. Police
said he made frequent trips to Europe, particularly Latvia.

Attorney Lee Rothman told the Post-Gazette that he met Saturday with the
suspect, who was being kept under suicide watch at Beaver County Jail. He said
that Baumhammers had been treated since 1993 for an unspecified mental disorder
and that Baumhammers had voluntarily admitted himself to a psychiatric ward at
least once.

On Sunday afternoon, about 700 people gathered at a Hindu temple to remember
Anil Thakurt, 31, one of the men killed at the Indian grocery in Carnegie. The
other man, Sandip Patel, 25, remained hospitalized Sunday in critical condition.

LOAD-DATE: May 3, 2000

LANGUAGE: English

GRAPHIC: PHOTO (1) Photo headshot - (Richard Scott) Baumhammers
 Once had a law firm
 (2) Photo by THE ASSOCIATED PRESS - Relatives and friends comfort Chris Pham,
5, and his mother, Bonnie Pham (background center), wife of a delivery driver
who was killed with the manager of the Ya Fei Chinese restaurant Friday. Richard
Scott Baumhammers, 34, is a suspect in their slayings and in the fatal shootings
of three other people.

                  Copyright 2000 St. Louis Post-Dispatch, Inc.


                              380 of 457 DOCUMENTS

                       St. Louis Post-Dispatch (Missouri)

                  May 2, 2000, Tuesday, FIVE STAR LIFT EDITION

POLITICIANS BECOME CRITICS -- UNLESS THE POLLS DISAGREE

BYLINE: Gregory Freeman

SECTION: METRO, Pg. B1

LENGTH: 634 words



Elian Gonzalez case

Politicians are a funny bunch.

Especially when election year rolls around.

Republicans often accuse President Bill Clinton of governing by public opinion
poll. But one would have to be unconscious to think that they don't do the same
thing.

Want proof? Take a look at America's favorite Cuban boy, Elian Gonzalez.

After hours of futile negotiations, U.S. Attorney General Janet Reno ordered the
Immigration and Naturalization Service and the Border Patrol to remove Elian
from the Miami home of great-uncle Lazaro Gonzalez on April 22.

That order, and Elian's subsequent removal, caused a furor, particularly among
Republican politicos. They criticized Reno -- and Clinton -- for overreacting.
Some called security forces from the Border Patrol and the immigration service
"jackbooted government thugs." Senate Majority Leader Trent Lott of Mississippi
compared Clinton with Fidel Castro, and said of the raid that he thought "this
could only happen in Castro's Cuba."

Texas Gov. George W. Bush said, "The chilling image of a little boy being
removed from his home at gunpoint is not an image a freedom-loving nation wants
to show the world."

One by one, the politicians jumped into the fray, calling for hearings, hoping
to make political hay out of Elian's removal.

And while the Republicans were the chief culprits, they were joined by a few
opportunistic Democrats, including Vice President Al Gore, who told National
Public Radio that he "would have handled it differently." Gore, who has been at
odds with Clinton and Reno over the case, said that a family court should have
decided the boy's future.

All of that was before the polls were released.

Among them, an NBC poll, released Sunday, found that 62 percent of Americans
oppose congressional hearings to investigate the government's actions in
reuniting Elian with his father, compared with 30 percent who support hearings.

A USA Today/CNN/Gallup Poll released last week showed that 68 percent don't
favor congressional hearings.

Meanwhile, other polls found sympathy and understanding for Elian and his
father, Juan Miguel Gonzalez. In fact, the incident may actually have created
pressure for the United States to restore relations with Cuba. A separate USA
Today poll reported 54 percent now favor re-establishing diplomatic relations.

And so, with a symbolic wettened finger in the air, the politicians have been
cleaning up their words. After saying last week that he would conduct hearings,
Rep. Henry Hyde, R-Ill., now says his House Judiciary Committee will let its
sister group in the Senate take the lead in investigating the case.

"We'll wait and see what the Senate does," Hyde said.

That may not be much.

After insisting on hearings last week, Senate Judiciary Committee Chairman Orrin
Hatch, R-Utah, now says he will need to see the government's documents before
deciding whether such proceedings are warranted. In Sunday TV news show
appearances, Hatch appeared to be backing away from hearings. So was Rep. Tom
DeLay, R-Texas.

Meanwhile, Gore is now saying, well, nothing. "Under the law, whatever I say
could be introduced into the proceedings as a possible factor creating bias one
way or the other," he was quoted as saying on Saturday -- even though he's said
quite a bit about it before now.

After backing himself into a corner with his strong words, Lott continues to say
that there will be hearings in the case. That may be true. But you can be sure
that the hearings will be quick and to the point, not the lengthy sessions that
were promised a week ago.

That's probably for the best. It seems the last thing Americans want these days
are more dragged-out, partisan congressional hearings. That's a spectacle we can
do without.

LOAD-DATE: May 2, 2000

LANGUAGE: English

TYPE: Gregory Freeman Column

                  Copyright 2000 St. Louis Post-Dispatch, Inc.


                              381 of 457 DOCUMENTS

                       St. Louis Post-Dispatch (Missouri)

                 May 4, 2000, Thursday, FIVE STAR LIFT EDITION

CREVE COEUR TEEN HELPS IMMIGRANTS LEARN THE LANGUAGE OF NEW HOME

BYLINE: Nancy Cambria; Of The Post-Dispatch

SECTION: SOUTH POST, Pg. 5

LENGTH: 779 words


* Alex Sukhodolsky was helping his Russian grandparents study for their American
citizenship tests when he realized how great the need for tutoring was.

Alex Sukhodolsky, 16, may lack Regis Philbin's dramatic delivery, but he has a
knack for slowly and carefully asking questions.

For the older Russian immigrants who hang on the Creve Coeur teen-ager's every
word, reciting the answers in English can win them the most priceless prize of
all: American citizenship.

Every other Saturday, Alex helps St. Louis-area Russian immigrants study for the
U.S. citizenship test.

His method is simple. Recite one of the 100 different questions that may be
asked in the test in Russian first. Then repeat the question as slowly and
clearly as possible in English - again and again until the entire class can
understand.

His grateful students are decades apart in age from their young teacher. Of the
estimated 3,000 Russian immigrants in the St. Louis area, his students represent
the 10 percent who are 65 or older. Most are the oldest members of entire
Russian families who have relinquished both their homeland and their Russian
citizenship to follow their children and grandchildren to this country for a
better life.

These elderly refugees yearn to be American citizens. But their ages and their
shyness about speaking a new language often can stand in the way of their dream,
Alex says.

"When you get older, it's just harder to learn," he said. "They have a hard time
with the English." And since the questions are asked in English, they don't feel
very confident, even if they do know the answer.

Last month, the Parkway South High School junior was one of 25 teens fr om
across the nation recognized by "react" magazine, the teen version of Parade,
for outstanding volunteer service. In addition to his weekend classes, the
magazine honored Alex for developing a Web site, audio tapes and other materials
to help Russian immigrants pass the test.

Alex is modest about his accomplishments. But his proud parents, Natalie and
Jacob, are the first to remind him that what he does is crucial.

"When the older ones come to America, they are really coming to be with their
families," said Natalie. "The younger people are able to have a part in society.
For the older ones, it's really hard. They're more cut off from society. So when
they become a citizen, this is something they are really proud that they have
accomplished."

Evelyn Young, director of Jewish Family and Children's Services, says the
organization has helped to resettle two large waves of Russian immigrants to the
St. Louis area in the past 25 years. Her group recently received federal money
to conduct similar classes for the elderly. She agreed that U.S. citizenship was
the ultimate prize for most refugees.

"They want to become full members of the United States," she said. "They want to
vote. They want to take ownership of their country."

The Sukhodolskys immigrated to St. Louis from the Ukraine in 1989 when Alex was
5. Alex's father, a computer science professor at Saint Louis University, was
the only family member who spoke English. For Alex, learning the language was
easy. But he said this was not the case for his grandparents, Zil and Berth.
When they took the naturalization test in 1996, Alex and his brother, Yury,
helped them study. They soon discovered his grandparents weren't the only ones
struggling to memorize the answers. In fact, many of the Russian tenants in his
grandparents' St. Louis apartment building grappled with the same problem.

"There were about 30 elderly people in my grandfather's building getting ready
for the test," Alex explained. "Me and my brother and grandpa came up with the
idea of helping out everyone in the building."

There are 100 different questions about American history and government that can
be asked on the test. Although the test is given verbally, the questions are
asked by the examiner in English, and the answers must be recited in English.
The questions can range from something as simple as naming the president to
something as difficult as explaining the electoral college.

"A lot of times, they know more than they think they know," Alex said.  "It's
just a matter of getting them confident with their answers."

So far, he has directly helped more than 25 people pass the test. Although
working with people more than three times his age requires patience, he does not
consider his work a chore.

"We don't just talk about the test," he said. "We always talk about current
events. It gives me a better Russian vocabulary, and I hear so many different
stories about what they've been through."

LOAD-DATE: May 4, 2000

LANGUAGE: English

GRAPHIC: PHOTO (1) Photo by AARON BURG - Alex Sukhodolsky holds citizenship
class for five elderly Russian immigrants at the Crown Center retirement home in
University City. Here, he helps Vil Gerno recite the Pledge of Allegiance.
 (2) Photo by AARON BURG - Alex Sukhodolsky, who helps immigrants study for
their citizenship tests, puts questions on the board.

                  Copyright 2000 St. Louis Post-Dispatch, Inc.


                              382 of 457 DOCUMENTS

                       St. Louis Post-Dispatch (Missouri)

                 June 12, 2000, Monday, FIVE STAR LIFT EDITION

"SOMETIMES YOU JUST HAVE TO DO THE RIGHT THING"A better place to grow up;
The second of a four-day special report

BYLINE: Richard H. Weiss; Of The Post-Dispatch

SECTION: NEWS, Pg. A8

LENGTH: 1082 words


* Richard Baron walked into the meeting with quite a reputation. He is to urban
redevelopment what Tiger Woods is to golf.

* Baron learned some valuable lessons from his grandfather, a Russian immigrant
merchant in Detroit who befriended many people.

As a boy growing up in northwest Detroit, Richard Baron used to take the bus
downtown to help his grandfather at his yard-goods store.

Detroit in the early 1950s was a stew of ethnic groups, with many immigrants and
refugees from Eastern Europe.

Baron's grandfather, Isadore "Izzy" Grabow, emigrated from Russia in 1905. The
waitresses, secretaries and clerks in the neighborhood considered him as much
social worker as merchant.

Richala -- as grandpa Grabow called him -- occasionally saw gaunt men and women
with numbers tattooed on their wrists visit the store, Midwest Woolen Co.
Richard didn't understand the significance of those numbers from Nazi
concentration camps then, but he could see that his grandfather was helping them
as they got a fresh start as tailors in America. As Richard rang up purchases,
grandpa threw in some bonus thread, additional fabric, an extra pattern.

One day an Italian woman arrived with her daughter in tow to buy a wedding
dress. After measuring the material and cutting the lace, Grabow asked the woman
how she was outfitting her other daughters as bridesmaids.

They would wear the Sunday dresses they already had, the woman said.

That's not right, Grandpa Grabow said. "I think I have something you can use."

"Oh, no you musn't," the woman protested.

Grabow turned a deaf ear and sent Richard to fetch a bolt of silk.

"I can't," the woman said.

"My gift," grandpa Grabow replied as he wrapped the material and ribbons in
brown paper and string.

That started tears and a round of embraces, Richard included.

Afterward, at lunch, Richard asked: "Grandpa, how can you give away the cloth?
You can't make a living like that."

"Richala, you have to understand," the grandfather said. "Sometimes you just
have to do the right thing."

"And there's one more thing you have to understand," he said, his face crinkling
into a grin. "That daughter -- she's one of six sisters."

The story Baron tells about his grandfather is his way of explaining why
McCormack Baron & Associates doesn't just build affordable housing but also
attacks social ills that accompany urban poverty. It's the right thi ng to do,
Baron says. It's also good business.

Good schools and neighborhood services -- such as day care and job training --
help to stabilize a neighborhood. That in turn keeps rental units filled with
upwardly mobile tenants. The positive momentum attracts the attention of power
brokers and financiers who have a social conscience and understand that their
own stake in the city depends on thriving neighborhoods and a reliable
workforce.

"My grandfather understood it was important to share, and in the end if you did
the right thing it would come around," Baron says.

It's all perfectly logical. But Baron works in a world far more complicated than
his grandpa's, with its petty politics, Byzantine bureaucracies and elaborate
financing schemes.

And it can get touchy because Baron is, among other things, a white landlord who
collects rent from poor people, many of them African-Americans.

The landlord-tenant relationship has long been an unhappy one for many
African-Americans and so Baron frequently is not given credit for good
intentions -- at least not at first.

Many of his tenants and the staff at Jefferson Elementary School don't know that
Baron has been working in the neighborhood for three decades.

As a young Legal Aid attorney, Baron helped lead a rent strike in 1968 on behalf
of public housing tenants. He and the tenants not only won the battle but the
effort led to key reforms in public housing laws. One was that rents could be no
more than 25 percent of a tenant's income. (The percentage has since been raised
to 30.)

Baron went into the urban development business, first as a consultant who helped
public housing tenants manage and run their complexes, then as a provider of
housing. As a developer he's pioneered the concept of involving residents in the
planning of his projects and addressing tenant concerns.

Baron has had to temper his liberal idealism with some hard-edged practices.

The company isn't shy about evicting tenants who fail to pay or run afoul of the
law. It will go to court, mail the required registered letters, then, if
necessary, send a burly eviction specialist to put the tenants' furniture on the
street in full view of other residents.

Some neighborhood residents believe he's a multimillionaire, which he's not. His
business success affords him a comfortable lifestyle and a nice home in Clayton.
What it also does is enable him to seed other entrepreneurial efforts aimed at
revitalizing urban neighborhoods.

Fourteen years ago, Baron founded the Center of Contemporary Arts, based in a
former synagogue in University City. Now the center is providing a multitude of
programs at Jefferson School as part of outreach efforts that involve more than
7,000 students at 27 locations across the metropolitan area. That gives Baron a
lot of satisfaction.

What grates on him is that people still question his motives after all these
years. When Baron got word last year that he would be honored with the St. Louis
Award for his achievements, he insisted that the ceremony be held at Jefferson
School. He wanted to drive home to St. Louis civic leaders what could be done
for city schools if they would provide sustained interest and support.

It saddened him when he learned that some staff members at the school felt as if
they and the children were used as props in a ceremony that glorified his
efforts. A few weeks later he made a point of meeting with the teachers to hear
their concerns about the neighborhood and the school.

Baron finds himself shuttling constantly between two worlds -- the boardroom and
inner-city neigborhoods. That he's succeeded as a builder and businessman gives
him great credibility with bankers, investors and philanthropists. But their
acceptance and his growing reputation come with a price -- a degree of suspicion
in the neighborhoods he's dedicated his career to serving.

"I'm always thinking about how to bridge that gap," he said. "Everywhere I go I
have to start over explaining who I am and what I'm trying to accomplish."

LOAD-DATE: June 21, 2000

LANGUAGE: English

GRAPHIC: PHOTO (1) Photo by J.B. Forbes/POST-DISPATCH - Baron likes to take
donors and investors on tours of Jefferson Elementary School to show them what
can be done when they focus their attention on inner-city neighborhoods. Baron
raised $ 3.5 million for the school to provide computer technology, air
conditioning and job-training programs.
 (2) Photo headshot - Isadore Grabow
 Richard Baron's grandfather

                  Copyright 2000 St. Louis Post-Dispatch, Inc.


                              383 of 457 DOCUMENTS

                       St. Louis Post-Dispatch (Missouri)

                June 15, 2000, Thursday, FIVE STAR LIFT EDITION

EX-REFUGEES FROM BOSNIA TAKE CITIZENSHIP OATH ON FLAG DAY;
THE HADZISELIMOVICS EMBRACE THEIR NEW LIFE ENTHUSIASTICALLY

BYLINE: Nancy Cambria; Of The Post-Dispatch

SECTION: METRO, Pg. B2

LENGTH: 607 words


As the Hadziselimovic family stood Wednesday with 69 other immigrants under a
huge American flag in the Old Courthouse and swore an oath of citizenship to
this country, they saw something that they hadn't envisioned in their former
nation - a future.

"In Bosnia, you didn't even look into the future," said Dzenana Hadziselimovic,
24, just hours before the ceremony that would officially make her, her mother,
Memsija, and her father, Camil, U.S. citizens. "You were thinking, how are you
going to live through tomorrow."

It was a ceremony that they had celebrated just a few months before for
Dzenana's brother, Muhamed, 22. This day, Flag Day, it was their turn.

With little more than their clothes and a smuggled family photo album, the
Hadziselimovics fled from Bosnia-Herzegovina to nearby Croatia on a cold, rainy
day in March 1993. As they said good-bye to their apartment in the northern city
of Kotor Varos, Memsija kissed the front door and tearfully wondered to her
children if she would ever have her own set of dishes again.

They had already endured months of eating mostly potatoes and rice. That was
during the summer and fall of 1992, when Serb troops occupied their city and
prohibited them and the other 20 families in their apartment complex from
leaving the building for four months.

Dzenana said she got up that morning after the troops rolled in expecting to go
to the dentist. Within hours, however, the family realized they weren't going
anywhere.

"What you had in the apartment, was what you had to eat," Dzenana, 24,
explained. "We made cookies with no eggs."

Several days later, they also knew their lives as Bosnian citizens held no
future. When they left, they were told they could take no money, no family
papers, and, most agonizing of all, no pictures.

"Mom snuck the pictures," Dzenana said. "She wanted us to have them. If you lose
them, you have nothing to show for your past."

After living in Croatia for 16 months, the Hadziselimovics immigrated to St.
Louis in August 1994 as one of the first Bosnian families to be sponsored by the
International Institute. There are now about 20,000 Bosnians in the region.

The family has come a long way since that first hot day when they set out on
foot to buy groceries in south St. Louis, looking for the little nearby food
shops they were used to back in Kotor Varos. (Hours later, they came upon the
National Supermarket.)

With a celebration cake baking in the oven, Dzenana, Memsija and Camil could
hardly control their excitement Wednesday over the prospect of finally gaining
full citizenship to a country that had already given them such a bright future.

Here, they knew they would never have to give up their family pictures. Or be
harassed by loudspeakers affixed to fire trucks that made daily rounds urging
all Bosnians to leave the city. Or forced by troops to sign a paper that said
they were voluntarily leaving their homeland.

In the year to come, they look forward to Dzenana's graduation from the
University of Missouri at St. Louis and Washington University with an
engineering degree and her marriage to Bruno Mruckovski. Memsija and Camil will
celebrate their 30th wedding anniversary this fall.

"To me, it's amazing, you can come to the United States and you can have
everything you want," said Dzenana, 24. "It's a promised land. If you want to
work, you can work. Six years ago we didn't even speak English."

Later that day, after the three shyly recited the oath of citizenship to U.S.
District Judge Donald Stohr, Memsija wiped a happy tear from her eye.

"I'm American now," she said. "That's it!"

LOAD-DATE: September 10, 2000

LANGUAGE: English

GRAPHIC: PHOTO Photos by JERRY NAUNHEIM/POST-DISPATCH
 (1) Camil Hadziselimovic watches Wednesday as workers install a swimming pool
at his home on 38th Street in south St. Louis. The family bought the house when
he and his wife were earning $ 6 an hour in factory jobs, said his wife,
Memsija. Camil Hadziselimovic, a carpenter in Bosnia, does the same work here.
 (2) Dzenana Hadziselimovic, her mother, Memsija, and father, Camil, take the
oath of citizenship Wednesday at the Old Courthouse. The father's flag tie was a
gift from his daughter for the occasion. The family's son, Muhamed, became a
citizen a few months ago.

TYPE: MetroWatch Column

                  Copyright 2000 St. Louis Post-Dispatch, Inc.


                              384 of 457 DOCUMENTS

                       St. Louis Post-Dispatch (Missouri)

                June 15, 2000, Thursday, FIVE STAR LIFT EDITION

IMMIGRANTS MUST KNOW U.S. HISTORY; HOW DO YOU SCORE?

BYLINE: Gregory Freeman

SECTION: METRO, Pg. B1

LENGTH: 596 words



Take a citizenship test

For most of us, being American took very little work on our part.

We were born American. No inspections to pass. No tests to take.

But for immigrants who want to become American citizens, it takes some work. To
become naturalized citizens, they have to know how to read, write and speak
basic English -- something, to be honest, that not every native-born American
can do. Immigrants also have to have knowledge of U.S. history and government.

Most of us who were born here figure we know all that stuff. But Karen
Heitzman's not so sure. She's a community organizer with SLACO, the St. Louis
Association of Community Organizations, and often works with immigrants and the
International Institute.

Heitzman gave me copies of a study guide produced by the Justice Department that
includes questions that immigrants are asked.

"It's interesting to ask a group of American-born adults the questions," she
said. "They don't do so well."

How well do you know this nation's history and government? Below are 25
questions that I pulled from the study guide. For some readers, they may seem
easy. For others, well, an encore visit to civics class may be in order. See
whether you know the answers.

1. For how long do we elect each senator?

2. What major river running north to south divides the United States?

3. What is the minimum voting age in the United States?

4. What is the supreme law of the United States?

5. What is the Bill of Rights?

6. Who becomes president if both the president and vice president die?

7. Who is the chief justice of the Supreme Court?

8. What are some of the requirements to be eligible to become president?

9. Why are there 100 senators in the U.S. Senate?

10. Why did the pilgrims come to America?

11. What are some of the basic beliefs of the Declaration of Independence?

12. Who was the first commander-in-chief of the Army and Navy?

13. In what year was the Constitution written?

14. How many times may a senator or congressman be re-elected?

15. What kind of government does the United States have?

16. What is the most important right granted to U.S. citizens?

17. How many changes, or amendments, are there to the Constitution?

18. Who makes the federal laws in the United States?

19. What famous American invented the electric light bulb?

20. Who wrote "The Star-Spangled Banner"?

21. What group has the power to declare war?

22. Name the amendments that guarantee or address voting rights.

23. What special group advises the president?

24. Who said, "Give me liberty or give me death"?

25. What were the original 13 states?

Answers: 1) Six years. 2) Mississippi River. 3) 18. 4) The Constitution. 5) The
first 10 amendments to the Constitution. 6) Speaker of the House. 7) William
Rehnquist. 8) Be a natural-born citizen; be at least 35; have lived in the
United States for at least 14 years. 9) Each state elects two. 10) To gain
religious freedom. 11) That all are created equal and have the right to life,
liberty and the pursuit of happiness. 12) George Washington. 13) 1787. 14) No
limit. 15) A republic. 16) The right to vote. 17) 27. 18) Congress. 19) Thomas
Edison. 20) Francis Scott Key. 21) Congress. 22) 14th, 15th and 19th. 23) The
Cabinet. 24) Patrick Henry. 25) Virginia, Massachusetts, Maryland, Rhode Island,
Connecticut, New Hampshire, North Carolina, South Carolina, New York, New
Jersey, Pennsylvania, Delaware and Georgia.

LOAD-DATE: June 15, 2000

LANGUAGE: English

TYPE: Gregory Freeman Column

                  Copyright 2000 St. Louis Post-Dispatch, Inc.


                              385 of 457 DOCUMENTS

                       St. Louis Post-Dispatch (Missouri)

                 June 16, 2000, Friday, FIVE STAR LIFT EDITION

CUBAN BOY'S RELATIVES IN MIAMI SEEK HEARING BEFORE FULL APPEALS COURT;
A THREE-JUDGE PANEL RECENTLY RULED IN FAVOR OF ELIAN GONZALEZ'S FATHER

BYLINE: The Associated Press

SECTION: NEWS, Pg. A7

LENGTH: 614 words

DATELINE: MIAMI


Elian Gonzalez's Miami relatives asked a full federal appeals court Thursday to
hear their plea to keep the boy in the United States.

The relatives argued that a three-judge panel of the 11th U.S. Circuit Court of
Appeals in Atlanta had misread the law when it ruled against them earlier this
month.

Elian's plight has been highly politicized since his rescue. Anti-Castro Cuban
exiles adopted him as a symbol of their cause, and the issue has both gripped
and severely divided Miami.

In Cuba, President Fidel Castro has made it a personal crusade to secure Elian's
return, and his government has mobilized hundreds of thousands of people to take
part in a series of rallies.

Seven of the 12 judges would have to agree to hear the case for it to come
before the court. The U.S. government and lawyers for Elian's father were given
until Tuesday to respond to the petition.

A court order requiring the 6-year-old Cuban boy to stay in the United States
could be extended if the full court decides to rehear the case. If the court
doesn't, the relatives have seven days to go to the Supreme Court.

Two weeks ago, a three-judge panel of the 11th Circuit ruled against the Miami
relatives, saying the Immigration and Naturalization Service acted within reason
when it decided that only Elian's father could apply for asylum on his behalf.

The panel said no federal law addresses whether a child as young as Elian can
seek asylum against his parents' wishes. The panel said courts could not
interfere if a federal agency makes a reasonable interpretation of an ambiguous
law.

But the Miami relatives argued in court papers Thursday that the panel gave too
much deference to the INS.

The relatives cited a Supreme Court ruling last month that says many agency
decisions based on manuals and guidelines lack the force of law and should not
receive the same deference as decisions made after a formal rule-making process.

Jose Garcia-Pedrosa, a lawyer for the family, charged during a news conference
that internal INS documents show that the U.S. government was trying to appease
Fidel Castro and the Cuban government by deciding to send Elian back.

Kendall Coffey, another lawyer for the family, said the internal INS records and
electronic messages "raise serious questions about the extreme irregularities
and other troubling conduct on the INS in the Elian Gonzalez matter."

One document appears to be a handwritten note with the statement "Show Fidel -
we gave back the child," according to Coffey.

The papers filed Thursday also argue that aliens like Elian have a
constitutional right to seek asylum.

At a news conference in Miami's Little Havana, another lawyer, Spencer Eig,
urged Elian's father to defect.

Elian's father, Juan Miguel Gonzalez, arrived in the United States in April in
hopes of taking Elian home to Cuba and ending the seven-month saga that began
Thanksgiving Day. Elian was rescued off the Florida coast after his mother and
10 others drowned when their boat sank en route to the United States.

The INS decided the boy should be returned to his father. But the Miami
relatives, who had cared for Elian since his rescue, refused to relinquish the
boy. The agents then seized the boy on April 22 and reunited him with his father
in the Washington area.

Some 19 protesters and bystanders who claim they were beaten or sprayed with
tear gas during the INS raid filed suit Thursday against Attorney General Janet
Reno, Deputy Attorney General Eric Holder and INS Commissioner Doris Meissner.

The protesters and bystanders claim that federal agents used excessive force and
violated their constitutional rights during the raid.

LOAD-DATE: June 16, 2000

LANGUAGE: English

                  Copyright 2000 St. Louis Post-Dispatch, Inc.


                              386 of 457 DOCUMENTS

                       St. Louis Post-Dispatch (Missouri)

                   June 23, 2000, Friday, THREE STAR EDITION

DUTCH TRUCK DRIVER IS FIRST TO BE CHARGED IN SUFFOCATION DEATHS OF 58 CHINESE;
IMMIGRANTS

BYLINE: The Associated Press

SECTION: NEWS, Pg. A2

LENGTH: 206 words

DATELINE: LONDON


Prosecutors on Thursday charged a Dutch truck driver with 58 counts of
manslaughter after a group of illegal Chinese immigrants suffocated in his
vehicle, police said.

The driver, Perry Wacker, was the first person to be charged in the case. He has
been held since Sunday, when authorities discovered the bodies of the immigrants
and two survivors in an airtight compartment of Wacker's truck.

Police said they found the 60 Chinese after the truck arrived at the English
Channel port of Dover. It had made a five-hour ferry from Zeebrugge, Belgium.

Autopsies completed Thursday confirmed that all the victims were asphyxiated,
officials said.

Wacker also was charged with smuggling and attempted smuggling, Kent county
police said. He is due to appear in court today in Folkestone, near Dover.

The deaths prompted an international police hunt for smuggling rings that
authorities say are bringing increasing numbers of illegal immigrants to the
West from Asia, Eastern Europe and Africa.

Kent police also were holding two London-based Chinese suspected of involvement
in the smuggling gang. In the Netherlands, police have arrested the 24-year-old
owner of the trucking company and an unidentified 55-year-old man.

LOAD-DATE: June 23, 2000

LANGUAGE: English

                  Copyright 2000 St. Louis Post-Dispatch, Inc.


                              387 of 457 DOCUMENTS

                       St. Louis Post-Dispatch (Missouri)

                June 28, 2000, Wednesday, FIVE STAR LIFT EDITION

WHY IS A PERSON WHO WORKED AGAINST MULLAHS' REGIME LABELED A TERRORIST?

BYLINE: Kasra Nejat

SECTION: EDITORIAL, Pg. B7

LENGTH: 706 words



IMMIGRATION

I have received a lot of calls from Iranian-Americans in Missouri since April 3.
"What about us?" they ask. "We are also political refugees. We also want freedom
for Iran and had to flee to America. Are we out of the mullahs' reach?"

I have no answer for them.

On April 3, the Immigration and Naturalization Service arrested a young Iranian
woman, Mahnaz Samadi. A human rights activist, Samadi is well known in Missouri.
A keynote speaker at several community events, her wrenching personal testimony
about the treatment of women in prison in Iran left a lasting impression. The
INS is threatening to deport her.

As Iranians, we know that in her case that is a death sentence. Samadi sought to
free Iran from the theocratic dictatorship installed by Ruhollah Khomeini, a
goal shared by nine out of 10 Iranians. But she dared to speak out about her
beliefs. While still in high school in Iran, she campaigned for human rights.
She was arrested and spent four years under horrific torture in dreaded Evin
political prison. The clerical regime killed her brothers, jailed her sister and
tortured the entire family. She fled Iran to avoid being returned to the torture
chambers, was granted political asylum in the United States in 1995 and
dedicated her life to helping other Iranians victimized by the Tehran regime.

On April 3, she was arrested by INS agents on her return from Canada. She was
not allowed to speak to her lawyer, who was at the border. She was secreted away
to an unknown location, and then transferred from one jail to another. She was
subjected to all kinds of humiliation, strip-searched following a visit from her
attorney, shackled during the transfers between jails, taunted by guards as a
"terrorist" and then locked up in a crowded cell in prison in rural Alabama.

Members of Congress, Amnesty International, the U.N. High Commission for
Refugees, and Iranian-American communities across the U.S. have protested her
arrest in letters to Attorney General Janet Reno and the INS director.

SO what is Samadi's crime? The INS's first notice to appear charges that she
failed to tell them that, after fleeing Iran, she spent seven months with
National Liberation Army's forces, who conduct "coordination attacks designed to
liberate Iran." The NLA is the military wing of the resistance movement against
the mullahs' tyranny. Sen. Christopher Bond led a group 28 senators who
recognized the movement as legitimate. A majority in the House of
Representatives, parliamentary majorities in Britain, Italy, Belgium and 143
members of the French National Assembly signed on the same initiative.

So what is really going on here? The State Department is still on the wrong
track with the ruling regime in Iran. Let's flip through the history books. In
January 1978, President Jimmy Carter referred to the shah's Iran as "as island
of stability." Just months later, the monarchy was overthrown.

In 1985, the Reagan administration sent Iran's new president, Hashemi
Rafsanjani, a gift of a cake, a colt and a Bible. That good will is better known
now as the Irangate scandal.

In 1997, the State Department included Iran's largest and most effective
opposition group in its list of foreign terrorist organizations. A senior
Clinton administration official told The Los Angeles Times the i nclusion of the
People's Mujahedeen was a "goodwill gesture" to Iran's newly elected president,
Mohammad Khatami.

It was quite obvious to Iranians here and in Tehran that Mahnaz Samadi's arrest
was simply another in this series of concessions to Iran's unpopular rulers. The
mullahs' state-controlled newspaper, Jomhouri-Islami, welcomed her arrest,
adding that she might be deported.

That sure looks like a political agenda to Iranians in Missouri.

Mahnaz Samadi is the victim of a political game. So does that mean striving for
freedom has become a crime? It is a question Iranian-Americans in Missouri are
taking very seriously. The stakes are very high. In the words of Sen. Robert
Torricelli, D-N.J., "Sending messages to foreign governments should not involve
the taking of people's lives. She faces certain death. This is outrageous. It
cannot be permitted to happen."

LOAD-DATE: June 28, 2000

LANGUAGE: English

TYPE: Commentary Column

                  Copyright 2000 St. Louis Post-Dispatch, Inc.


                              388 of 457 DOCUMENTS

                       St. Louis Post-Dispatch (Missouri)

                   June 29, 2000, Thursday, FIVE STAR EDITION

WORLD

BYLINE: From News Services

SECTION: NEWS, Pg. A10

LENGTH: 639 words



EUROPE

RUSSIA

Missile defense exercise is planned with U.S.

In an effort to broaden their military cooperation, Russia and the United States
are planning to conduct a joint exercise of their defenses against short- and
medium-range missiles, a senior U.S. official said Wednesday.

The aim is to rehearse the procedures for coordinating Russian and U.S. theater
missile defenses against a common enemy, U.S. officials said. The exercise is
likely to take place at Fort Bliss, a U.S. Army post in Texas, before the end of
the year.

Theater defenses are anti-missile systems like the Russian S-300 or the U.S.
Patriot that are intended to counter short- or medium-range missiles - typically
missiles with ranges between a few hundred and a few thousand miles - that could
threaten U.S. troops abroad or endanger the United States' allies.

NETHERLANDS

Police arrest five men in Chinese immigrant case

Dutch police said Wednesday that they have arrested an additional five men and
are seeking one other who allegedly were part of a ring that tried to smuggle 58
Chinese immigrants into Britain inside a sealed truck, where they suffocated.

Dutch police claimed "remarkable progress" in their investigation, saying they
had traced the rented warehouse where the immigrants were put into the large
truck for the ill-fated ferry trip across the English Channel.

The discovery of the 58 corpses 10 days ago at the English port of Dover threw
light on illicit trafficking of people, mostly from Asia to western Europe,
which United Nations officials described as the world's fastest growing
international crime. Two migrants survived the journey.

VATICAN CITY

Pope condemns religious fighting in Indonesia

Pope John Paul II condemned Muslims for attacking Christians in Indonesia's
Maluku islands, as bloody sectarian fighting raged on there Wednesday despite
the declaration of a state of emergency.

"You cannot kill and destroy in the name of religion," the pope told his general
audience Wednesday in St. Peter's Square at the Vatican.

John Paul called for peace and urged the Indonesian government to do more to end
the cycle of violence, which has killed nearly 3,000 people of both faiths in
the past 18 months.

SOUTH AMERICA

PERU

Group seeks reforms to fortify democracy

A top-level delegation from the Organization of American States met Wednesday
with President Alberto Fujimori to push for reforms to strengthen Peru's damaged
democracy.

The mission also planned to meet with opposition leader Alejandro Toledo, who
boycotted the May 28 presidential runoff, charging that Fujimori planned to rig
the outcome. The OAS refused to monitor the ballot, saying the election was "far
from what could be considered free or fair."

In a statement Wednesday, Peter Boehm, Canada's ambassador to the OAS, said the
mission would seek reforms in the electoral process and the courts as well as a
commitment from the government "to strengthen press freedom."

NORTH AMERICA

CANADA

Five deaths weren't linked to massive E. coli outbreak

A coroner ruled Wednesday that E. coli had nothing to do with five of 21 deaths
considered possibly linked to the intestinal bacteria that contaminated a town's
drinking water.

Dr. James Young, the Ontario chief coroner, said he expected a similar finding
for some of the other deaths being investigated.

Authorities have said seven people died and about 2,000 people were sickened by
the bacteria that showed up in the water supply of Walkerton in May.

The town had the worst known E. coli contamination in North America, and
residents of Walkerton face at least four more weeks without their normal water
supply as authorities try to clean the system and determine the source of the
bacteria.

LOAD-DATE: June 30, 2000

LANGUAGE: English

TYPE: World Briefs Column

                  Copyright 2000 St. Louis Post-Dispatch, Inc.


                              389 of 457 DOCUMENTS

                       St. Louis Post-Dispatch (Missouri)

                June 29, 2000, Thursday, FIVE STAR LIFT EDITION

MAN UPSET BY IMMIGRATION PROBLEM HOLDS ARCHBISHOP HOSTAGE FOR 9 HOURS;
ARCHBISHOP PATRICK FLORES OF SAN ANTONIO IS FREED UNHARMED

BYLINE: The Associated Press

SECTION: NEWS, Pg. A8

LENGTH: 523 words

DATELINE: SAN ANTONIO


A man seeking help for an immigration problem and claiming to have a hand
grenade took Archbishop Patrick Flores hostage in his office for nine hours
before releasing him Wednesday evening.

The Roman Catholic archbishop appeared to be unharmed as he was escorted out of
his office by police and placed on a stretcher.

"Obviously, we're very pleased with the outcome of this," Police Chief Al
Philippus said. "God came down and really smiled on us and wrapped his arms
around the situation."

Philippus identified the suspect as 40-year-old Nelson Antonio Escolero.  The El
Salvador native, a legal resident of the United States, was upset over his
possible deportation for driving with a suspended license, authorities said.

Escolero allowed Flores to go free, then placed the grenade-like device on a
table and walked out when authorities faxed him the immigration status papers he
had requested, Philippus said. Authorities Wednesday night had not determined
what the device was.

Escolero was handcuffed and driven away.

The chief said the archbishop was tired but relieved the situation had come to
an end. He was taken to a hospital to be checked for possible back problems, but
otherwise seemed fine.

The archbishop's secretary, Myrtle Sanchez, was also held for about three hours
but was freed unharmed.

She said the man had been holding something in his hand that she believed to be
a weapon but she could not identify it, said Monsignor Larry Stuebben, who spoke
to her shortly after she was released. She described the man as upset but not
out of control.

"He's very frustrated by the way he's been treated, and wants the archbishop to
help him," Stuebben said Sanchez told him.

The man is believed to have been in the United States about 25 years and has
three children. His wife and one son were at the scene, Stuebben said.

He entered the office about 10 a.m. local time.

Philippus said Escolero pushed Flores down early in the day, the only physical
contact between the two. He said Escolero said repeatedly during conversations
with negotiators that he did not want to hurt the archbishop.

The chief said it was difficult to explain the hostage-taker's motives.

Besides being upset over what he described as mistreatment by government
authorities over his immigration status, Escolero also expressed anger over his
unemployment and the return of Elian Gonzalez to Cuba.

Previous criminal convictions for Escolero, also known as Carlos Cruz, were
nonviolent: two charges of possession of marijuana, burglary of a vehicle and
unauthorized use of a motor vehicle, authorities said.

The chancery is the headquarters for the 23-county San Antonio archdiocese.
Flores, 70, became the first Mexican-American Catholic bishop in the nation when
he was named its auxiliary bishop.

David Garcia, rector of San Fernando Cathedral, said Flores, though a native
Texan, is known as a friend to immigrants. He also was known to have an
open-door policy.

"I can't think of a person who has more tried to help people with immigration
problems than the archbishop has," Garcia said.

LOAD-DATE: June 29, 2000

LANGUAGE: English

GRAPHIC: PHOTO (1) Photo headshot - (Archbishop Patrick) Flores - Taken to
hospital for checkup
 (2) Photo by THE ASSOCIATED PRESS - The Rev. Jimmy Drennan (right) talks to a
San Antonio police officer Wednesday outside the Catholic chancellery where a
man was holding Archbishop Patrick Flores hostage.

                  Copyright 2000 St. Louis Post-Dispatch, Inc.


                              390 of 457 DOCUMENTS

                       St. Louis Post-Dispatch (Missouri)

                June 29, 2000, Thursday, FIVE STAR LIFT EDITION

KEY DATES IN THE ELIAN GONZALEZ CASE

SECTION: NEWS, Pg. A10

LENGTH: 331 words



1999

Nov. 22 -- Elian, his mother and 12 others leave Cuba for U.S. aboard a 16-foot
motor boat.

Nov. 25 -- Elian is rescued at sea after the boat capsizes, killing his mother
and 10 others.

Nov. 26 -- Great-uncle Lazaro Gonzalez in Miami is granted temporary custody of
Elian.

Nov. 27 -- From Cuba, Juan Miguel Gonzalez demands his son's return.

Dec. 10 -- Lazaro Gonzalez applies for asylum for Elian.

2000

Jan. 5 -- Immigration and Naturalization Service Commissioner Doris Meissner
decides Elian "belongs with his father" and must be returned to Cuba by Jan. 14.
Florida relatives ask Attorney General Janet Reno to reconsider.

Jan. 7 -- Lazaro Gonzalez files a petition for temporary custody.

Jan. 12 -- Reno upholds the father's right to custody of Elian.

Jan. 19 -- Lazaro Gonzalez files a federal lawsuit challenging Immigration
Service ruling.

Jan. 26 -- Elian's grandmothers meet with him in Miami.

March 21 -- U.S. District Judge K. Michael Moore dismisses Lazaro Gonzalez's
lawsuit; the Miami relatives appeal.

April 6 -- Juan Miguel Gonzalez, his wife and their son arrive in the United
States.

April 12 -- Reno meets with the Florida relatives and orders them to surrender
Elian.

April 22 -- Federal agents seize Elian in Miami in raid; Elian is reunited with
his father in Washington. Rioting breaks out in Miami.

April 25 -- Cuban-Americans stage a general strike in Miami.

June 1 -- The 11th U.S. Circuit Court of Appeals in Atlanta rules in favor of
the federal government and Elian's father but orders the boy to remain, pending
appeal.

June 23 -- The federal Appeals Court reaffirms its decision and says the order
blocking Elian's return to Cuba will expire at 3 p.m. St. Louis time on June 28.


June 26 -- The Miami relatives appeal to Supreme Court.

June 28 -- The Supreme Court rejects their appeal, the previous court order
expires and Elian departs for Cuba with his father.

LOAD-DATE: June 29, 2000

LANGUAGE: English

                  Copyright 2000 St. Louis Post-Dispatch, Inc.


                              391 of 457 DOCUMENTS

                       St. Louis Post-Dispatch (Missouri)

                   July 4, 1996, Thursday, THREE STAR Edition

STUDIES: SCHOOL LIFTS IMMIGRANT CHILDREN

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 10A

LENGTH: 171 words

DATELINE: SAN JOSE, CALIF.


Immigrant children in the United States are more motivated to get an education
than their native-born peers and more likely to continue school through college,
according to a pair of studies released Wednesday.

This aspiration gap between immigrant and native-born Latinos is the most
striking, according to one of the studies published by the Rand Corp. This
Latino gap is three times greater than the gap between immigrant and native-born
students in other ethnic and racial groups, according to this study.

One report analyzed Census data and information from a survey of 21,000 10th-
and 12th-graders by Rand researchers Georges Vernez and Allan Abrahamse. The
lower goals of native-born Latinos translate into lower educational achievement,
said this study.

This achievement gap, plus the lower education levels, job skills and incomes of
adult Latino immigrants, leads to a persistent pattern of lower wages, according
to a separate study of U.S. Census data by Vernez, Robert Schoeni and Kevin F.
McCarthy.

LOAD-DATE: July 4, 1996

LANGUAGE: English

                  Copyright 1996 St. Louis Post-Dispatch, Inc.


                              392 of 457 DOCUMENTS

                       St. Louis Post-Dispatch (Missouri)

                 July 6, 1996, Saturday, FIVE STAR LIFT Edition

PATRIOTISM DOESN'T TAKE DAY OFF; 69 NEW CITIZENS CONTINUE CELEBRATING BIRTHDAY
OF U.S.

BYLINE: Dan Mihalopoulos Of The Post-Dispatch Staff

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 1A

LENGTH: 574 words


Friday's break in Fair Saint Louis didn't stop 69 newly minted patriots from
continuing the celebration of their adopted country's 220th birthday.

The fair resumes today with the Veiled Prophet Parade at 10 a.m. During the
temporary hiatus Friday,

the Old Courthouse played host to what is arguably the holiday weekend's most
patriotic event: a naturalization ceremony that made Americans out of a polyglot
group of immigrants.

Fernando Torres-Molaro, a foreign-language translator from Colombia, wor e a tie
featuring the American flag and another quintessential American symbol - Snoopy.

His daughter, Ana, 5, and son, Joseph, 9, attended the ceremony under the
courthouse rotunda.

"This is a great country, with great people," Torres-Molaro said. "This is a
resumen (summary) of the greatest cultures in the world."

Arash Aminian, 20, and his family left their native Iran 11 years ago for a
country regarded by Iran's government as "The Great Satan."

"We came for the educational opportunities, the freedom to do what you want to
do," said Aminian, a chemical engineering student at Washington University. "I
try to keep the good parts of American culture and the good parts of Persian
culture."

Nearly all the new Americans come from Asia, Africa or Latin American,
reflecting the nationwide trend in immigration.

"Much of the strength of our country comes from this mingling," said U.S.
District Judge Stephen N. Limbaugh, of Missouri's eastern district. "Being a
good American does not depend on race or creed."

Virtually perfect weather and a peaceful crowd placed Thursday among the
16-year-old event's most successful opening days, officials said.

"It was wall-to-wall people, but a very well-behaved crowd," said Mel
Loewenstein, the fair's executive director.

Police reported one assault, two larcenies and a few unruly drunks. A police
spokeswoman credited the heavy police presence at the fair with averting brawls.
Park rangers made only one arrest for disorderly conduct, Easton said.

"People from out of town are amazed that such a large group with access to
alcohol could get together without problems," he said.

Police said traffic moved smoothly as the horde of fairgoers broke for home
after the fireworks.

"Our traffic plan (involving one-way routing) worked out so well that it was
canceled after just one hour," said Adella Jones, a spokeswoman for the police
department.

"We thought we'd have to keep it in effect for two or three hours after the
fair."

Medical staff reported no major heat-related illnesses thanks to moderate
temperatures and low humidity. Less than 10 percent of injuries were
heat-related.

But muggy weather returns today, and forecasters expect temperatures to reach
the 90s Sunday. WeatherData Inc., the Post-Dispatch's forecasting service,
predicts a 40 percent chance of thunderstorms Sunday.

Organizers, police and the fair's landlord - the National Park Service - refused
to guess the size of crowd on the Arch grounds Thursday or how many will show up
this weekend.

"There's no scientific way for us to do a crowd estimate," said Gary Easton,
superintendent of the Arch grounds. "It was probably the biggest crowd in five
or six years."

Fair officials, once scorned for making wild, inflated guesses, haven't played
the numbers game since the riverfront bash was known as the VP Fair. "In the
final analysis, who cares?" Loewenstein asked.

LOAD-DATE: July 6, 1996

LANGUAGE: English

GRAPHIC: PHOTO; (1) Color photo by Larry Williams/Post-Dispatch - A Real
Wingding - Terry Klingele of Belleville practices aerobatics above the
riverfront in his MiG-17, a Chinese-built jet featured in the Fair Saint Louis
air show. Story on 1B. (2) Photo by Jane Rudolph/Post-Dispatch - Some of the 69
immigrants raise their right hands to take the oath of citizenship Friday in a
naturalization ceremony at the Old Courthouse downtown.

TYPE: PROFILE FAIR SAINT LOUIS (VP FAIR)

                  Copyright 1996 St. Louis Post-Dispatch, Inc.


                              393 of 457 DOCUMENTS

                       St. Louis Post-Dispatch (Missouri)

                July 18, 1996, Thursday, FIVE STAR LIFT Edition

HEAVENLY HARMONIES; REGGAE TRIO TO VISIT ST. LOUIS -- AT LAST

BYLINE: Michael Kuelker Special To GET OUT

SECTION: GET OUT; Pg. 9

LENGTH: 468 words


Give thanks to Immigration and Naturalization.

Israel Vibration, one of reggae's top roots acts, will finally visit St. Louis.
The visa problems that for several years kept the band from touring the United
States are untangled at last.

If the band's spirit-elevating performance in Providence, R.I., last week is any
indication, local fans can expect the reggae show of the year when the vocal
trio performs at Mississippi Nights. Opening are the talented veterans of Roots
Radics, who, in addition to issuing albums of their own, have recorded with
Bunny Wailer, Gregory Isaacs, the Itals and others.

The bureaucratic hustle that obliged the three to make their vocal magic
separately in recording studios here and in Jamaica has been far from their
weightiest struggle.

Each a victim of polio, Cecil "Skelly" Spence, Albert "Apple" Craig and Lascelle
"Wiss" Bulgin first met as youths in the early 1970s at Mona Rehabilitation
Center, the only medical facility in Jamaica where they could receive treatment.
Music and spirituality soon be came their sustenance. Each became a member of
the Twelve Tribes, a Rastafarian sect whose most famous exponent is Bob Marley.

An auspicious debut in 1978, "The Same Song," betokened a singular new sound in
roots reggae, established by the trio's grainy, plaintive voices and their
eschewing moist peace-and-love platitudes for bracing doses of reality as they
saw it.

"Unconquered People," an equally powerful re cording, soon followed. But by
1983, the vagaries of shady accounting practices, musical piracy and a lack of
money for tour and promotional support--long the bane of Jamaican
musicians--ground the group to a halt.

In the late 1980s, when the members approached U.S.-based RAS Records about
individual recording deals, label chief "Dr. Dread" inquired about
reconstituting them as a group. The plan gelled, and the reunion coincided with
a resurgence in roots-and-culture message music. "Strength of My Life" (1988)
resulted. Its title cut is one of the most affecting hom ages to Jah that reggae
has ever produced. Since then the al bums have poured forth annually.

At its best, the trio pulls off remarkable feats of Rasta psalmistry, little
epiphanies of earnest, honestly evok ed lyrics of faith and struggle, social
observance and revenge fantasies about the fall of Babylon.

Although last year's "On the Rock" still has mileage, Apple, Skelly and Wiss
refuse to rest on their laurels or their behinds. Since beginning their new
tour, they have performed at sold-out clubs and reggae festivals. A new album,
"Free to Move," will be released in August.

Israel Vibration w/Roots Radics Where:

Mississippi Nights When:

8 p.m. Sunday Opening Acts:

Reggae at Will, Yard Squad How Much:

$ 12-$ 14 More Info:

421-3853

LOAD-DATE: July 18, 1996

LANGUAGE: English

GRAPHIC: Photo; Photo - Israel Vibration's members met when they were youths
recovering from polio.

TYPE: PROFILE ISRAEL VIBRATION

                  Copyright 1996 St. Louis Post-Dispatch, Inc.


                              394 of 457 DOCUMENTS

                       St. Louis Post-Dispatch (Missouri)

                 August 9, 1996, Friday, FIVE STAR LIFT Edition

IMMIGRANTS FLOCK TO MISSOURI, SOUTHERN ILLINOIS

BYLINE: Philip Dine Post-Dispatch Washington Bureau

SECTION: WAR PAGE; Pg. 5C

LENGTH: 1058 words

DATELINE: WASHINGTON


ST. LOUIS, Boone County in central Missouri and Jackson County in Southern
Illinois rank among the nation's "immigration hot spots," says the Center for
Immigration Studies, a Washington research institute.

Its report - made public Wednesday - generally showed rising immigration to
parts of the country that had been relatively unaffected, when compared with
coastal and border states. The center used data from the Census Bureau and the
Immigration and Naturalization Service.

"One of the most interesting things we've found is that the Midwest and the
South are becoming new destinations for immigrants," said Mark Krikorian, the
center's executive director. Immigration patterns have been shifting over the
last five to 10 years, influenced by a healthy economy in the Midwest and
hostility in California and other traditional destinations for immigrants.

Boone County is home to the University of Missouri at Columbia, and Jackson
County is the location of Southern Illinois University at Carbondale. Each
county ranked higher than 84 percent of the nation's counties in receiving
recent immigrants, and St. Louis surpassed 82 percent.

"I've seen it coming," said Elaine Spearman, St. Louis' director of human
services. "St. Louis doesn't really have a governmental office that deals with
immigration. This is an area we definitely are going to have to give some
attention to."

In a map of the nation put out by the Center for Immigration Studies, an
immigration band runs across Missouri from St. Louis and Kansas City, dipping
southward in the middle. "Central Missouri has had a tremendously strong economy
the last four or five years," said Ed Robb, who directs the University of
Missouri's public affairs research center.

The steady stream of immigrants into St. Louis has been somewhat disguised by
the region's heterogeneity. The metropolitan area now has more than 80, 000
immigrants, and the figure is expected to top 100,000 by decade's end. The
diversity of the immigrants has mitigated against formation of visible ethnic
enclaves.

Mexicans, Vietnamese

Among the largest recent groups are several thousand Mexicans who have moved
into St. Louis, with 5,000 Vietnamese refugees. In all, the city has about
25,000 immigrants.

Boone County has seen an immigration flow based partly on the University of
Missouri, which has drawn students from the Pacific rim and Middle East, says
Robb. Some bring extended families, while former students or newcomers start
businesses to serve the foreign population. Census figures show about 6,000
foreign-born residents in Boone County.

"We may have more Oriental restaurants per capita than any other place in the
state," said Robb, who also notes that Columbia now has a large mosque, and that
at a recent point more than half of his own employees were Chinese.

Two factors have drawn immigrants to Jackson County, Ill. - the presence of SIUC
and an influx of migrant farm workers, said Donald Monty, Carbondale's assistant
city manager. Some migrants harvest apples and peaches in Jackson County's
southern tip.

The center's study rated counties based on six factors: the proportion of
immigrants in the 1990 Census, the change from 1980, the percentage who speak
foreign languages at home, annual immigration figures since 1990, the numbers
under 18 (because they affect schools) and over 18 (labor force impact).

Every U.S. county was ranked on a four-step scale, either intense, hot, warm or
cool. Only a few merited an "intense" ranking, most of them Southwestern ones
bordering Mexico, southern Florida, scattered Eastern areas including New York,
and Chicago.

Reasons For Increase

But broad stretches of the Midwest now are "warm," and the area is dotted with
hot spots. Several factors appear to fuel this trend:

* Economy. The area has remained robust, while others have tapered off. Its
manufacturing and agricultural bases provide a varied job market. The cost of
living including housing is comparatively reasonable.

* A lack of saturation. In areas of concentration, such as California and Texas,
immigrants often compete with one another for low-wage jobs.

* Absence of hostility. The very anonymity that causes many immigrants to
overlook the Midwest makes the area attractive when controversy arises in other
states.

* Refugee flow. The State Department has targeted several Midwestern areas for
the resettlement of refugees. St. Louis, for instance, has the nation's second
highest number of Bosnian refugees, after Chicago, according to State Department
figures.

Immigration to the Midwestshould continue to climb as the volume of newcomers
reaches a critical mass that creates its own momentum, experts say. Kinship
networks are forming, entrepreneurial immigrants are setting up shop to serve
the growing populations and larger businesses may move in to use the relatively
cheap labor.

"Missouri and downstate Illinois, as well as other places in the Midwest, are
likely to develop new hot spots in the years ahead," said Krikorian of the
Center for Immigration Studies. "There's no question that the saturation effect
is driving immigrants to look for greener pastures."

Cultural factors buttress the economic ones, he said. "Once St. Louis, for
instance, gets enough Vietnamese, and they form churches and neighborhood
associations, you've created a new immigration flow from that country."

Jobs Fuel Immigration

Already, large meat and poultry plants in rural parts of Kansas, Missouri,
Nebraska, Iowa, Mississippi and other Midwest or Southern states provide a
source of steady, low-skill jobs for immigrants.

Those communities are "starting to see some interesting phenomena," Mizzou's
Robb said. "The immigration of non-English speaking people puts a lot of
pressure on the local school system. . . . In some cases, those groups may be
half of the entire work force, which brings a totally different group of
children than the school system had been dealing with."

The shifting of welfare decisions and programs to states lends a practical
urgency to the trend, said Rosemary Jenks of the Center for Immigration Studies.

In St. Louis' Human Services Department, Spearman said she recently instructed
employees to try to contract with non-governmental agencies to handle mounting
problems among immigrants.

LOAD-DATE: August 9, 1996

LANGUAGE: English

GRAPHIC: PHOTO, MAP; (1) Post-Dispatch file photo - Shirley Trang and her
husband, David Trang, owners of Trang Fashions on South Grand Boulevard.
Vietnamese and Mexicans are among the largest groups of recent immigrants here.
(2) Map by Tom Borgman/Post-Dispatch - Immigration Hot Spots SOURCE: Center for
Immigration Studies Immigrants are being drawn to the bistate area. (Map of
Missouri and Illinois showing all counties. Counties are shaded for immigration
hot spots as either INTENSE, HOT, WARM or COOL.)

TYPE: PROFILE MIDWEST IMMIGRATION/IMMIGRANTS

                  Copyright 1996 St. Louis Post-Dispatch, Inc.


                              395 of 457 DOCUMENTS

                       St. Louis Post-Dispatch (Missouri)

                  August 11, 1996, Sunday, THREE STAR Edition

DRUG FLASH POINT AT BORDER CASTS NAFTA IN SOBERING LIGHT

BYLINE: John Ward Anderson 1996, The Washington Post

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 1A

LENGTH: 871 words

DATELINE: SAN YSIDRO, CALIF.


U.S. Customs Inspector Robert Bickers pointed to a white Honda Accord and
ordered the driver to open the trunk. The well-dressed, middle-aged man stepped
out of his car. That was his first mistake.

Bickers said, "He has a latch inside that he could have used to open the trunk,
but he got out real slow, and you could tell he didn't want to do it."

The car, which was in a long line of vehicles waiting to clear U.S. Customs, was
about 2 feet inside the United States, and as the man walked to the back of the
vehicle, Bickers planted his stocky frame on the border.

The driver popped the lid. There, neatly stacked to the brim, was 576 pounds of
marijuana in white, brick-sized packages. The man tried to bolt, but Bickers
quickly subdued him.

Just a routine bust on a typical day at San Ysidro, the world's busiest border
crossing, where 4,500 people an hour - or about 40 million each year - test the
nation's front-line defenses against drug trafficking and illegal immigration.

A day at this massive, hectic, 24-lane border crossing illustrates the challenge
of opening the border to greater trade with a partner in the North American Free
Trade Agreement while closing it to the growing flood of illegal drugs and
immigrants.

"It's a balancing act between the free flow of commerce and the ability of the
government to interdict contraband - aliens or narcotics," said Rudy M. Camacho,
head of the Customs Service's San Diego District. "Better targeting (of
smugglers) gives better traffic management. We don't want to shut the border
down. We want to shut down the willful violators."

These competing goals coexist along the entire 2,000-mile U.S.-Mexico border,
crossed by 84 million cars and 232 million people a year - and by 70 percent of
the cocaine, 80 percent of the methamphetamine and foreign-grown marijuana and
30 percent of the heroin that wind up on America'a streets.

San Ysidro's border crossing, operated jointly by the Customs Service and the
Immigration and Naturalization Service, is an intense microcosm of the border. A
Washington Post reporter spent a day at the site - Friday, July 26 - during
which more than 35,000 vehicles and more than 100,000 people crossed into the
United States. On that day inspectors made eight drug busts and arrested 75
people trying to enter the country illegally. No trucks are allowed to pass
through San Ysidro. Drug-Sniffing Dog

The day began early for Inspector Gus Reynoso. About 7 a.m., while patrolling
the massive blacktop area where hundreds of cars line up and wait to enter the
United States, Reynoso noticed a light blue Volkswagen with a suspiciously
shallow well behind the back seat. He ordered the car to undergo a second, more
detailed inspection.

A drug-sniffing dog hopped into the car and scratched furiously at the back
well, where investigators found a hidden compartment with 18 pounds of
marijuana.

About 60 percent of all drugs seized at San Ysidro are first detected in the
long lines of cars that stack up in the 120-foot area between the actual border
and the crescent-shaped U.S. inspection station that stretches across the
highway.

Computers in customs booths spit out data about suspicious cars while teams of
inspectors, some with dogs, roam the traffic, arbitrarily asking drivers to open
their trunks.

Fewer than 3 percent of the cars that use the crossing are inspected, so the
unpredictable trunk-pop is designed to raise the stakes on smugglers. And the
dogs' senses are so acute that even through the thick exhaust they can smell a
marijuana cigarette wrapped in plastic and hidden inside a dashboard.

The huge, congested area where cars line up is a center of activity 24 hours a
day, every day. There are drug arrests, car fires and fights between motorists.
Women run into the area to give birth, winning U.S. citizenship for their
babies. Drug smugglers screech their cars into dangerous U-turns to race back to
Mexico.

Next to the traffic lanes are a sidewalk and tunnel leading to an area where
pedestrians, most of them American tourists returning from a day or night in
Tijuana, re-enter the United States.

Bickers, the customs inspector, said he doesn't have much use for border
politics and the loosening restrictions that NAFTA ushered in. "We've made a
treaty with a country that's so corrupt, they can't even trust their police
officers," he said.

Checking The Southbound

Early in the evening, border-crossing workers began a special operation to
search for weapons, runaways, parole violators and cash in cars being driven
south from the United States into Mexico.

Mexican and U.S. officials say the most common way for Mexico's drug kingpins to
bring their illegal proceeds home is to load cars with cash and simply drive
across the border.

Few cars are stopped by Mexican border police, and, if bundles of money are
found, the poorly paid guards often can be bribed to look the other way. The
extent of the problem can be measured by a simple comparison: Mexican officials
value their country's illegal drug trade at $ 30 billion a year, but last year
only $ 1.7 million in returning drug money was seized by Mexican authorities
along the entire 2,000-mile border.

LOAD-DATE: August 12, 1996

LANGUAGE: English

                  Copyright 1996 St. Louis Post-Dispatch, Inc.


                              396 of 457 DOCUMENTS

                       St. Louis Post-Dispatch (Missouri)

                August 16, 1996, Friday, FIVE STAR LIFT Edition

IMMIGRATION 'REFORM' GOES AGAINST THE GRAIN

BYLINE: Christine Bertelson

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 8A

LENGTH: 877 words

CHRISTINE BERTELSON COLUMN

DATELINE: SAN DIEGO


MARGARITA RAMIREZ did not watch the Republicans at the convention on television
this week. She was too busy changing their beds, vacuuming their floors,
replacing the little shampoo bottles in their bathrooms and picking their dirty
clothes off the floor for $ 6.22 an hour.

After logging eight hours as a housekeeper at a downtown hotel, Margarita, 32,
works nine more hours tidying up at the Convention Center, a short walk from her
first job.

I promised Margarita I would not use her real name, or name the hotel where she
works. She doesn't want to appear to be complaining, which in fact she is not.
She especially doesn't want to lose either of her jobs.

By the time Margarita gets home, her two children are fast asleep. Margarita
sleeps for three hours, then rises with her children, makes them breakfast and
starts her day again. Margarita's husband, by the way, didn't watch the
Republicans either. He was too busy cooking their meals - by the hundreds - in a
hotel kitchen.

Both Margarita and her husband are legal immigrants, though not yet citizens.
But nine years ago they entered the country illegally from Mexico. Like
thousands of other Mexicans who cross the border here every month, they lived
with a relative until they could find work to support themselves.

Their children, however, were born on American soil, making them automatic
citizens. As such, they are entitled to a free education. Should Margarita or
her husband lose their jobs and fall on hard times, they would be entitled to a
full range of social services.

For those of us who live hundreds of miles from the U.S.-Mexico border, it may
be hard to understand what the all the fuss is about immigration. But here in
San Diego the issue that has sparked such long and passionate debate - causing
vice-presidential candidate Jack Kemp to quickly shift his ground - is right
under the Republicans' noses.

For it is Mexicans and other immigrants - from Nicaragua, Vietnam, the
Philippines - who are the backbone of the unskilled labor force. Take the
service elevator in any public building and Spanish is the lingua franca.

A plank in the Republican platform has taken aim at illegal immigrants, vowing
to caulk leaky borders, speed deportation of criminal aliens and streamline the
Immigration and Naturalization Service. Newt Gingrich has targeted pregnant
women, who, he says, cross the border to have babies and qualify for welfare,
food stamps, health care and a free education.

The party platform proposes a constitutional amendment declaring that children
born in the United States of parents who are not here legally should not be
given automatic citizenship. That would effectively repeal the 14th Amendment,
which has guaranteed citizenship to anyone born or naturalized on American soil
for the past 128 years.

The Republicans estimate that there are 4 million illegal aliens living in the
United States, a number growing by about 300,000 a year and burdening taxpayers,
straining public services, taking jobs away from Americans and increasing crime.

At a neighborhood health clinic in Barrio Logan, a poor Hispanic neighborhood
just two trolley stops from the convention hall, the issue comes into even
sharper focus.

The waiting room at the prenatal clinic at the Logan Heights Family Health
Center is packed with pregnant, brown-skinned women speaking Spanish. More than
two-thirds of the clinic's patients are women and children. The clinic is funded
by public and private sources, and by patient fees charged on a sliding scale.

All a woman needs to get prenatal care here is an address and a date of birth.
Medical cards are accepted at face value. Many, a Hispanic nurse confides, are
probably here illegally.

"If they arrive on our doorstep . . . seeking prenatal care, we give them care,"
said Fran Butler-Cohen, the clinic's executive director. "We are trained to
deliver medical care, not screen out undocumented people."

Resentment and ironies are everywhere. Sherman Sakatani, a third-generation
Japanese-American, drives a cab. Four years ago Sakatani married a Mexican woman
who had a child from a previous marriage. Sakatani's 8-year-old stepson goes to
a public school.

"There are at least four or five kids in his class that I know of who are
illegals," Sakatani said. "Their parents live in Mexico and send them over here
to live with relatives so they can get a good education."

Sakatani blames the "illegals" for the high student-teacher ratio in his
stepson's class - as well as for the necessity of bilingual education.

It is hard to listen to the Republicans and not feel that what they are
proposing goes against the grain of the American spirit. It's hard to watch the
men and women streaming across the border in search of a better life for their
children and imagine I could do anything different in their shoes. It's hard to
look in the eyes of the brown-skinned woman who changes my bed and tell her I
don't know what will be in the hearts of Americans in November.

"Do you think this Dole will win?" asked Dora, another hotel worker, as she
folded my towels.

"I have three children, and I am not a citizen," she said. "What should I do?
What will happen to them? Will they send me back?"

LOAD-DATE: August 17, 1996

LANGUAGE: English

GRAPHIC: PHOTO; (The following photo appeared only in the Three Star Editions)
Photo by AP - Mario David Gonzalez, 25, stretches from the United States to
light a candle with someone in Mexico on Wednesday in San Ysidro, Calif. He and
others called for more humane policies toward immigrants.

                  Copyright 1996 St. Louis Post-Dispatch, Inc.


                              397 of 457 DOCUMENTS

                       St. Louis Post-Dispatch (Missouri)

                  August 18, 1996, Sunday, THREE STAR Edition

SOME IMMIGRANTS FIND IT HARD TO ADJUST TO THE AMERICAN WAY

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 2D

LENGTH: 448 words

DATELINE: THE GAZA STRIP


After living in the United States for 14 years, Mahdiyyah Yousef decided she'd
had enough. Last year, she packed her bags and took her five daughters and two
sons back home to the Gaza Strip.

"I want to raise them in a purer environment," she explained.

For the Yousefs, that means a place where the sexes do not mix freely, where
children are not openly curious about sex, where cartoons don't contain
offensive jokes and where drug abuse and premarital sex are almost unheard of.

Yousef said she felt the barrier between her and her children grow when they
started speaking English at home rather than Arabic.

"I would feel so angry that I was tempted to punish them," said Yousef, her head
covered with a white scarf secured under her chin with a pink pin. "I didn't
want them to forget their history and their language."

Her husband, Ahmed, a researcher and writer, said he didn't know what to do when
his children came home from school with questions about sex.

"I was shocked," said Ahmed Yousef. "We never even dreamed of asking our parents
such questions."

Another problem was holidays.

When the children fasted during Ramadan, the other students made fun of them,
Yousef says. "At Halloween, I had to explain to them why they couldn't go trick
or treating."

Like the Yousefs, many immigrants and foreign nationals who come to the United
States find it a struggle to overcome cultural hurdles during their first few
months, or even years.

Some find the language incomprehensible, the food rubbery and tasteless, the
people rude and the women either not as flirty, or not as conservative, as back
home.

Their children become a problem, too. Because they have less cultural baggage
than their parents, the youngsters assimilate easily and pick up the new
language quickly. And that can create a rift between child and parent.

But unlike the Yousefs, most foreigners do adjust, and go on to get a degree or
a job and live more prosperous lives than they would back home.

Mohammed Hanooti, a Palestinian who moved to the United States almost 20 years
ago and now is imam of a Falls Church, Va., mosque, said that while most Muslim
newcomers in his congregation face problems assimilating, most get over their
difficulties and stay.

"There is some sort of adjustment that they go through at the beginning. But
they overcome this problem," said Hanooti.

Some new immigrants get disillusioned because of unrealistic expectations, often
gleaned from TV or friends, said Gary Weaver, a psychiatrist and American
University professor.

"If you watch the movies, you don't see poor people. You see violence, but it's
romantic violence," Weaver said.

LOAD-DATE: August 18, 1996

LANGUAGE: English

                  Copyright 1996 St. Louis Post-Dispatch, Inc.


                              398 of 457 DOCUMENTS

                       St. Louis Post-Dispatch (Missouri)

               September 1, 1996, Sunday, FIVE STAR LIFT Edition

GARDEN SPOT: GREEK IMMIGRANT COUPLE CULTIVATE NEAR U.S. 40

BYLINE: Theresa Tighe Of The Post-Dispatch Staff

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 1D

LENGTH: 1023 words


Some days as many as 142,000 commuters see Frank and Dimitra Fotinos working in
their garden. His is the silver head. Hers is the salt-and-pepper.

The couple, both in their 70s, plant and tend a border garden on the hill south
of U.S. Highway 40 (Interstate 64) near Clayton Avenue and Skinker Boulevard.
They have also created a block-long bouquet stretching west from their home on
Clayton Avenue to the highway overpass.

Last week, from the highway, drivers could see rows of canna lilies - big
scarlet and yellow flowers atop tall tropical leaves - marching across and down
the hillside like so many parrots out for a walk.

Along Clayton Avenue, purple and white phlox, lavender cleome, marigolds and
more cannas curtained chain-link fences.

On summer evenings, the Fotinoses often sit on their front porch, a concrete
slab half hidden by hibiscus and roses. A fragrance, like that of gardenias,
hangs in the air.

If you stop and compliment the flowers, Dimitra will roll her large dark eyes,
point at her husband and say, "Too much work. He's crazy."

He will smile and show you the source of the air's perfume, a white mumlike
flower on a glossy green bush. The plant, like the Fotinoses, is a Greek
immigrant.

The floral displays are the most recent accomplishment in a partnership that
began with an arranged marriage in Greece more than 53 years ago.

Their wedding picture hangs on the living room wall. His dark suit and her
white, satin gown are rented. At 23, a beautiful woman, she stares into the
camera with confidence. At 18 1/2, he looks like a worried boy.

"I thought he was too young," she whispers as a guest admires the photo.

Halfway across the living room, he hears her and says, "But you liked me. You
said yes."

Surrounding the Fotinoses' wedding portrait are their children's wedding
portraits.

"All six of them went to college," Frank says proudly. "Five in teaching. One in
engineering."

On other walls and tables and in Dimitra's hands to show visitors are pictures
of a dozen healthy, smiling grandchildren.

The children, the grandchildren, the future, these are the reasons Frank and
Dimitra left behind family, friends, a farm and barbershop. They came to St.
Louis in 1956, when his uncle, Bill Fotinos, agreed to be their sponsor.

Frank said: "I read in the 'Voice of America' that this country helps the poor,
that you can borrow money and pay later and send the kids to school free. And
God bless America - the paper did not lie."

Still, the decision to leave Sterna Messenias, a picturesque town 15 minutes
from the sea, came hard.

"Everyone said I was crazy to even think about leaving with six children. But
God has blessed me. I don't worry much," said Frank, who nearly always wears a
smile, favors crisp khakis and knit shirts, and looks a bit like an aging golf
pro.

Dimitra, who worries for them both, pulls her hair tightly back from her face
and often wears dark dresses. She looks like a tintype of a Greek matriarch.

"Crazy. He's crazy," Dimitra said, the laughter in her eyes negating her somber
expression. "He wanted many things. So did I."

During the Fotinoses' first years in America, the family lived in subsidized
housing in a complex downtown. He frequently worked two jobs, seven days a week,
first as a busboy, later as a waiter. Then, after learning English and getting
his license, as a barber.

Without telling Frank - he thought she had enough to do caring for the children
- she got a job as a hand finisher in a clothing factory. Eventually her job
allowed him to stop moonlighting and spend more time with their family.

The children - boys and girls - learned to do dishes and cook. Friends and
visitors sometimes criticized the Fotinoses' gender-blind assignment of chores.
"You mean the boys do dishes? The boys bring coffee to their mother?" they would
say.

"Shhhhh, don't cause trouble," was the Fotinoses' response.

The whole family became citizens - first Frank, then the children and finally
Dimitra, who learned just enough English to pass the test.

"The judge told me I was a citizen. He said I had the right, like Americans born
here, to criticize the president, if I thought he did wrong," said Frank, still
a little shocked at such freedom. In Greece, he and Dimitra had lived through
the Greek Civil War. During that war, Communists broke into and plundered their
home, and Dimitra's brother was found - beheaded - in a mass grave in Athens.

In 1961, Frank found a newspaper ad for a three-bedroom house the couple still
shares. It was on a bus line, directly across from an elementary school. From
the start, he viewed the one-story, red-brick house as a palace.She thought the
kitchen was too small.

But the basement had room for additional bedrooms, and the house sat on a long,
narrow lot that the Fotinoses could turn into a truck farm. So Dimitra put icons
of the Blessed Mother and Greek saints on the kitchen wall, placed a votive lamp
in front of the pictures and made do.

With the children's help, they planted peach trees, plum trees, apple trees,
tomatoes, corn, okra, lettuce, spinach, herbs, greens from Greece, Italy and the
United States, and beans from Mexico and Albania. They filled every inch of the
pie-shaped city lot with produce.

For decades, everything they planted could be put in the freezer or on the
table. As the children grew, the couple prospered and added ornamentals. An
almond tree that seldom bears almonds but often blooms and reminds them of
Greece shades a portion of the yard.

Frank built an arbor covered with vines and gourds from the old country, a
perfect place to sit and eat, or drink ouzo. Nearby is a tiny strip of lawn.
Frank said, laughing, "We never grew grass when the kids were here. Only food."

The couple's phone rings as frequently as a teen-ager's - family, f riends,
in-laws. Grandchildren pop in and out to see their Poppou (Frank) and Yia Yia
(Dimitra.)

Still Dimitra has a worry. She often asks Frank, "How will we care for all this
when we get old?"

His answer is always the same, "We won't grow old."

"Crazy," she replies.

LOAD-DATE: September 1, 1996

LANGUAGE: English

GRAPHIC: PHOTO; Photo by Jerry Naunheim Jr./Post-Dispatch - Dimitra and Frank
Fotinos, the Dogtown highway gardeners, with two of their grandchildren, Kevin
Kohr, 10, and Christy Kohr, 17. The grandchildren never leave without a load of
fresh vegetables. The Fotinos' garden is an attraction to U.S. Highway 40
commuters. (* This photo appeared as a Color Photo in the THREE STAR edition *)

TYPE: PROFILE DIMITRA FOTINOS FRANK FOTINOS HIGHWAY 40 GARDENERS

                  Copyright 1996 St. Louis Post-Dispatch, Inc.


                              399 of 457 DOCUMENTS

                       St. Louis Post-Dispatch (Missouri)

                 September 15, 1996, Sunday, THREE STAR Edition

AS ANTI-IMMIGRATION FERVOR RISES, IMMIGRANTS ARE BECOMING CITIZENS

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 9D

LENGTH: 547 words

DATELINE: FORT LAUDERDALE, FLA.


When Carol Roth came to the United States from Canada 18 years ago, she was
quickly hooked by the Florida weather and new friends. There was no reason to
return home.

Now faced with pending immigration and welfare reform legislation, Roth is
trying to become a U.S. citizen.

"After 18 years, I think it's time to become a citizen, seeing what the
government is doing to immigrants," said Roth, 56, of Tamarac, Fla. "When it's
time for me to retire, I'd like to be able to collect Social Security, since
I've been paying into it. And what about Medicaid, if I get sick or something?"

Many other immigrants nationwide are doing the same as get-tough policies on
immigrants take shape.

More than 810,000 new citizenship applications were received by the fe deral
Immigration and Naturalization Service in an eight-month period ending in May, a
29 percent increase over the comparable period of the previous fiscal year.

For some, the experience is heart-wrenching. While they are grateful to the
United States, immigrants tend to remain loyal to their homeland. Many hold on
to the idea that one day they will return.

But the United States does not recognize dual citizenship, so in order to become
naturalized, they have to renounce their native land.

As the date of enactment for pending legislation approaches, the number of
citizenship applications continues to rise. President Bill Clinton has already
signed the welfare bill. The immigration reform legislation is up for debate
again in September with a final version expected to go to Clinton before the
Nov. 5 election.

In south Florida, the INS is getting about 7,000 citizenship applications a
month, said John Bulger, coordinator for Citizenship USA, a program set up by
the INS to help streamline the citizenship process.

What had kept many immigrants from swearing allegiance to the United States now
is prodding them to take the oath. Some said fear was the driving force.

"I'm really afraid of what the government might do next," Roth said. "I guess I
had not become a citizen before because I was afraid to give up my Canadian
citizenship. I love this country. But I also feel like I'm losing something."

What has become known as an era of anti-immigrant sentiment may one day be
looked upon as a time of immigrant empowerment, experts said.

Immigrant advocates say the legislation meant to punish noncitizens and
discourage newcomers from staying in the United States is having the opposite
effect. By becoming citizens, immigrants are fighting back.

If the new citizens become active participants in the political process, they
could sway legislation to their benefit, making immigrants the winners in the
long term, observers say.

"As the currency of lawful permanent residency diminishes, there is more
pressure for others to naturalize," said Arthur C. Helton, director of migration
programs at Open Society Institute, a nonprofit research organization, in New
York. "They may adjust the political landscape in ways opponents decry.

"It's ironic: Hunt down undocumented immigrants, hunt down and penalize
documented immigrants, and at the same time promote citizenship."

Most of the provisions on public assistance in the welfare bill will not take
effect until next July 1.

LOAD-DATE: September 15, 1996

LANGUAGE: English

                  Copyright 1996 St. Louis Post-Dispatch, Inc.


                              400 of 457 DOCUMENTS

                       St. Louis Post-Dispatch (Missouri)

                 September 22, 1996, Sunday, THREE STAR Edition

HOCKEY'S IMMIGRANTS CAN OFTEN GET CAUGHT UP IN PAPER CHASE

BYLINE: Karen Crouse Orange County Register

SECTION: SPORTS; Pg. 14F

LENGTH: 1259 words


The team bus lumbers toward the Canada-U.S. border while the coaches huddle in
the front seats, trying to figure out how to avert the looming disaster.

The working papers of one of the hockey players on board are incomplete. Short
of some divine - or diplomatic - intervention, the player, a Czech, likely will
be detained by Canadian customs officials. Somebody suggests smuggling the
player through the checkpoint in the luggage compartment. Nobody laughs.

Sound like a scene from the soon-to-be-released Disney flick, "D3: The Mighty
Ducks," the second sequel to the original movie from which the Anaheim NHL entry
derived its name?

Actually, it's a true tale involving Pavel Trnka, a defenseman in the Mighty
Ducks' organization. His is one of myriad misadventures that come with the
foreign territories from which professional hockey players rise.

Athletes without a U.S. passport or a green card seeking employment with a
U.S.-based team are required to obtain work permits and nonimmigrant visas. In
most cases it's only a minor inconvenience, a matter of gathering the proper
papers, after which players are able to fly across the U.S. border as if it were
the blue line on a breakaway.

But throw a zealous customs official, a forgotten passport or a team transaction
into the mix and the process can become the bureaucratic equivalent of the
neutral zone trap. It can be especially trying for younger players such as Trnka
who are unschooled in the procedure and nonconversant in the language of their
interrogator.

Finnish forward Teemu Selanne was en route to his first NHL training camp in
Winnipeg from his hometown of Helsinki in 1988 when he was detained in customs
for more than an hour at the Toronto airport. The only official papers on his
person was a passport, and the customs official wasn't buying the baby-faced
18-year-old's story that he was trying out for the Jets' hockey team.

Or maybe he just couldn't understand it.

"My English was not very good," Selanne said. "I was young. It was tough."

Selanne's animation grew in proportion to his anguish until finally, he was
handed some papers to fill out and sent on his way. These days, the only delays
Selanne encounters at the border are when a customs official asks for his
autograph.

In the United States the process was streamlined with the passage in 1990 of the
Immigration Act, which created a temporary work permit category - P-1 - for
internationally recognized athletes and athletic teams wishing to compete in the
United States while maintaining permanent residency elsewhere. A current
passport and a copy of a professional contract are sufficient for a player on
one of the 20 U.S.-based NHL teams to obtain a P-1 permit. It must be
accompanied by a visa, which is obtained by gaining the permission of the U.S.
embassy in his country of residence to work in the United States.

When crossing the border, some foreign-born players also carry newspaper
clippings as further proof of their standing.

The P-1 permits generally are good for the length of a player's contract, while
the visas must be renewed every year.

In addition, athletes from the former Soviet Union who are on teams that travel
to Canada must also secure a multiple-entry visa, renewable every six months.

There are seven players from the former Soviet Union participating in Ducks
training camp. Kevin Gilmore, Disney Sports' vice president of business
operations, and his administrative assistant, Tia Wood, spent the better part of
one week gathering the players' paperwork in an effort to procure their entry
visas.

Roughly a dozen Ducks players have green cards, freeing them from the rigmarole.

Trnka's troubles last fall stemmed from an administrative mixup. He asked that
the Ducks send his P-1 paperwork to the Canadian embassy in Calgary, the closest
such office to Edmonton, where the player was spending the summer. But Trnka,
then 19, never made it to Calgary to pick up his papers.

The oversight wasn't uncovered until Trnka, who played for the Ducks' top
minor-league affiliate in Baltimore in 1995-96, traveled with the Bandits to
Cornwall, Ontario, in October. On their way out of Canada, Bandits team
officials led Trnka to his inquisition. After the situation was explained to
him, a sympathetic customs official issued the player a visitor's visa and sent
him - and the team - on its way after an hour's delay.

Until just recently, when a foreign-born athlete was traded from one team to
another, his working papers were at once reduced to scrap paper. The new team is
required to start the paper process anew, but now there is a 30-day grace
period. It went into effect too late to help defenseman Milos Holan, who was in
his hometown of Bilovec in the Czech Republic when he was acquired by the Ducks
from the Philadelphia Flyers in March 1995.

Holan, in a hurry to catch a flight from Los Angeles International Airport to
Vancouver to join the Ducks, instead spent two hours in a closet-like room in
the bowels of LAX, trying to explain how it was he could tell a customs official
he was coming into the country to play for the Mighty Ducks when his working
papers clearly stated he was employed by the Philadelphia Flyers.

"You're kind of at the mercy of the official at the border," said Debbie
Blanchard, who handled all the foreign-born players' paperwork last season
before leaving the Ducks to move to Chandler, Ariz. "That's why we'd always tell
the player, 'Don't say you've been traded to the Mighty Ducks, say you're trying
out with the team."'

On the same day the Ducks acquired Holan, they also picked up defenseman David
Karpa from the Quebec Nordiques (now the Colorado Avalanche). Karpa, a Canadian
citizen, couldn't get into the United States without a 30-day visitor's visa.
That is also what Karpa and the Ducks' other unsigned player, J.F. Jomphe of
Canada, would require today to get into the country.

Karpa couldn't secure the visa without first getting an invitation on Ducks
letterhead to join the team. So Blanchard, then the administrative assistant to
general manager Jack Ferreira, scurried around at midnight getting a letter
typed, signed and faxed to Karpa in Quebec.

Less than three weeks later, Karpa and teammate Stephan Lebeau were detained at
the U.S.-Canadian border after a game in Vancouver because they had forgotten
their passports. Blanchard had to collect the documents from the players'
girlfriends, then catch a flight to Vancouver to deliver them. Imagine the
Canadian customs official's surprise when Blanchard's answer to the obligatory
question about how long she would be staying in the country was, "Five minutes.
Ten minutes, max."

Even when a player's papers are in order, there is no guaranteeing smooth
passage across the border. Last season Denny Lambert was stopped by a customs
official in Toronto. As a native North American, Lambert is free to work in
either the United States or Canada. The official took one look at Lambert's
papers, then proceeded to grill the 5-foot-11 forward about his Ojibway
heritage. At one point, he said to him, "Prove to me you're an Indian."

The immigration official clearly was flexing his muscle. But Lambert, who
regularly dropped his gloves on the ice, kept his cool until Gilmore came to his
aid.

Trnka, now 20, doesn't anticipate having any run-ins with customs officials this
season.

"Last year I didn't know anybody, the language was different. It was very
confusing," Trnka explained. "This year it is much better."

LOAD-DATE: September 22, 1996

LANGUAGE: English

TYPE: PROFILE IMMIGRANT HOCKEY PLAYERS

                  Copyright 1996 St. Louis Post-Dispatch, Inc.


                              401 of 457 DOCUMENTS

                       St. Louis Post-Dispatch (Missouri)

                  October 6, 1996, Sunday, THREE STAR Edition

WAR HERO GETS OK TO STAY IN U.S.; HE SAVED 4 AMERICAN SOLDIERS IN VIETNAM, GOT
CAUGHT IN RED TAPE

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 8A

LENGTH: 457 words

DATELINE: SAN JOSE, CALIF.


A disabled former South Vietnamese Army major who risked his life to save four
American servicemen but was barred from emigrating to this country will be able
to stay after all, the U.S. Senate decided last week.

Just before adjourning Thursday, the Senate unanimously passed a bill that would
allow Nguyen Quy An, 53, of San Jose, to become a permanent resident. The House
has also passed the bill, which would require the Immigration and Naturalization
Service to allow An to apply for citizenship as soon as the president signs it -
as he is expected to do.

An lost his forearms when his helicopter was shot down in the Vietnam war. He
languished in Vietnam for years, stuck in a bureaucratic limbo that kept him
from emigrating to the United States with his daughter, who cares for him.

"I waited for 19 years before I could get out of communist hands," An said
Thursday, "and 10 months to let the bill pass."

An had been condemned to a communist re-education camp after the war, but his
captors kicked him out after just nine weeks, saying his injuries made him
useless.

The time in the camp was too short for An to qualify for a humanitarian program
that allowed former South Vietnamese soldiers who had spent at least a year in
the camps to emigrate to the United States.

So a network of Vietnamese immigrants and U.S. veterans worked hard to publicize
An's situation, writing letters to local politicians and gathering signatures.

In January 1994, the White House helped An and his daughter, Kim Ngoc, come to
the United States under the status of "humanitarian parole." But that did not
allow them to stay permanently. An could have applied for political asylum but
did not because he feared his daughter, 24, would have had to return to Vietnam
alone. As soon as he becomes a citizen, An can sponsor his daughter to become a
permanent resident.

An rescued four downed U.S. soldiers in enemy territory in Laos.

He guided his helicopter to a safe landing in the jungle, picked up the four and
flew them to safety. For his heroism, An was awarded a Distinguished Flying
Cross.

The next year, An's own helicopter was shot down by enemy fire.

An tried to escape from Vietnam four times, but he was caught each time, and he
spent more than two years in jail.

An lives in San Jose with his daughter and son, Toan, 26. Toan was granted
refugee status after escaping from Vietnam in a boat. Kim Ngoc works two jobs to
support her father, who has been unable to find work.

An was fitted with new prosthetic arms donated by a man who also lost his arms.
And he is taking an accounting class, hoping to find work. He said Thursday that
he hoped to find a good job and enable his daughter to attend college.

LOAD-DATE: October 7, 1996

LANGUAGE: English

                  Copyright 1996 St. Louis Post-Dispatch, Inc.


                              402 of 457 DOCUMENTS

                       St. Louis Post-Dispatch (Missouri)

                October 13, 1996, Sunday, FIVE STAR LIFT Edition

HISPANICS MARCH IN WASHINGTON

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 3A

LENGTH: 244 words

DATELINE: WASHINGTON


Waving flags of Latin countries and carrying banners demanding justice,
thousands of Hispanic-Americans marched in the capital Saturday to push for
simplified citizenship procedures and a $ 7 minimum wage.

A choir sang the national anthem in Spanish followed by an English rendition.

Mobilized by new and more stringent welfare and immigration laws and what they
see as growing hostility to the foreign born, Hispanics came from around the
country to participate in the first national march for Latino and immigrant
rights.

"We have never united into a distinct force," said a 25-year-old paraglegal who
had made the 2 1/2-day drive from Houston with his parents. "We need to start
getting together and increasing our voice."

Participants said Latinos are expected to be the nation's largest minority group
by 2000.

The start of the march was delayed an hour as ralliers cheered and swayed to
Latin music at a park in a largely Hispanic neighborhood.

The crowd shouted, "Somos un pueblo sin fronteras" (We are a people without
borders). aw Signs and huge banners said in English and Spanish: "Candidates
Beware - Don't Take Hispanics for Granted." and "This Country Was Built By
Immigrants."

Delegations were bused in from around the country. Organizers said marchers came
from 39 states. NSAM

U.S. Park Police no longer estimate crowds at such demonstrations, but there
appeared to have been about 30,000. Organizers had hoped for 100,000.

LOAD-DATE: October 14, 1996

LANGUAGE: English

GRAPHIC: PHOTO; Photo by AP - Liliana Jimenez of Puerto Rico and Antonio Leon of
El Salvador join other Hispanics in a march in Washington Saturday. About 30,
000 people took part in the event.

                  Copyright 1996 St. Louis Post-Dispatch, Inc.


                              403 of 457 DOCUMENTS

                       St. Louis Post-Dispatch (Missouri)

                November 3, 1996, Sunday, FIVE STAR LIFT Edition

PRESIDENT CALLS DOLE DIVISIVE; GOP MISUSING AFFIRMATIVE ACTION, IMMIGRATION
ISSUES, CLINTON SAYS

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 8A

LENGTH: 410 words

DATELINE: LITTLE ROCK, ARK.


President Clinton accused Bob Dole on Saturday of practicing "the old politics
of division" on affirmative action and immigration.

"Here, at the end of the election, some people are tempted to take advantage of
these issues for political (gain)," Clinton said.

Cruising into the final weekend still confident of victory, Clinton visited
Texas, Louisiana and his home state of Arkansas.

He was stumping for Democratic congressional candidates in all three states.

Clinton devoted his weekly radio address and a rally at the Alamo in San
Antonio, Tex. to rebutting Dole's call to end affirmative action and crack down
on illegal immigration.

He also challenged GOP attacks on his administration's record on crime and
welfare.

Last week Dole called affirmative action and immigration "wedge issues."

A Clinton spokesman said Dole's comments pitted Americans against Americans.
Dole "publicly expressed his pride in dividing America, which is distasteful, at
best," press secretary Mike McCurry said.

A Dole campaign spokesman said the Alamo remarks displayed "typical Clinton
hypocritical flair," adding, "He'd rather scare us than justify his continued
support of divisive (racial) quotas."

With the Alamo's walls forming a backdrop, Clinton declared, "When we come
together in search of common ground, we are always, always stronger as a
nation."

Clinton said that before he was elected in 1992, political divisiveness had
rendered Congress incapable of acting on problems that frustrated many
Americans. He claims to have struck "the common ground of politics" on crime,
welfare, race relations and budget issues.

"Instead of bringing people together around common values, the old politics of
division tried to drive wedges between us, to take advantage of our fears. We
must never let that happen again," he said in his radio address.

By not mentioning Dole by name, Clinton hoped to appeal to voters weary of
attacks leveled by both campaigns.

Yet the president didn't shy away from language that Republicans might consider
divisive, accusing the GOP of endangering the environment, schools and the
entire federal budget.

Clinton was ending his day in Tampa, Fla., where he hoped to shore up his bid to
win the normally Republican state. He planned Sunday events in West Palm Beach,
Fla.; New Jersey; Massachusetts and New Hampshire.

Clinton is scheduled to return to Arkansas Tuesday to vote and await election
returns.

LOAD-DATE: November 3, 1996

LANGUAGE: English

GRAPHIC: PHOTO; Photo From AP - Housing and urban Develolpment Secretary Henry
Cisneros, right, applauds the president of Mrs. Clinton at a rally Saturday at
the Alamo in San Antonio, Tex., where Cisneros was once mayor.

                  Copyright 1996 St. Louis Post-Dispatch, Inc.


                              404 of 457 DOCUMENTS

                       St. Louis Post-Dispatch (Missouri)

               November 22, 1996, Friday, FIVE STAR LIFT Edition

IMMIGRATION DRAGS DOWN WAGES OF WORKERS AT LOW END OF PAY SCALE

BYLINE: Maggie Gallagher Copyright Maggie Gallagher (Universal Press)

SECTION: EDITORIAL; Pg. 19C

LENGTH: 648 words

MAGGIE GALLAGHER COLUMN

DATELINE: NEW YORK


If, by pushing one magic button, the federal government could - without new
regulations - raise the wages of America's less-skilled workers by as much as
one-third, at no cost to the taxpayers - should we do it?

Sounds like a no-brainer. But such a magic button may exist, according to
economist George J. Borjas. It's called "immigration policy."

"Immigration may account for perhaps a third of the recent decline in the
relative wages of less-educated native workers," he writes in a provocative
cover story in the current issue of The Atlantic Monthly.

In an afterword to the new paperback edition of "Alien Nation," Peter Brimelow
notes that the economic "part of the immigration debate has not even begun."
Perhaps Borjas' article will jump-start the conversation.

Something about the immigration debate confounds the normal political
boundaries. Democrats' most reliable constituents are the poor, while
Republicans have gained the firm support of the upper middle class; even
lackluster candidate Bob Dole got more than half the votes of those households
earning more than $ 75,000 a year. (The middle middle class are the swing
voters.)

But so far, for the Democrats, race has trumped class in immigration policy.
Multicultural diversity (or perhaps more future Democratic voters?) is the
highest good, even if it hurts the minorities and poor already here.

And Borjas makes a persuasive case that it does. "Current immigration
redistributes wealth from unskilled workers, whose wages are lowered by
immigrants, to skilled workers and owners of companies that buy immigrants'
services," he concludes.

Although Borjas doesn't mention it, since immigrants tend to be male,
immigration has probably played an important role in the puzzling, unprecedented
decline in male wages over the last three decades, which has in turn contributed
to the ongoing collapse of the blue-collar family.

While Democrats circle the wagons against nativism, Republicans split between
those who fear cultural suicide and those who view free immigration as a boost
to the American economy and a confirmation of the vision of America as an
opportunity of society.

I have always placed myself in the latter camp, in part because, as a New
Yorker, I appreciate every day the contributions immigrants have made in
rebuilding dying neighborhoods, and in part because it seems obvious to me that
the chief architects of (multi)cultural suicide are native-born Americans, not
immigrants.

But lately, I'm not so sure. In the long run, demography is destiny.
Civilizations die when, over a period of time, they cease to bother raising
enough children to carry their culture into the future. As birth rates plummet,
nations first try to fill the missing-people gap by importing workers to
maintain their economies, and hiring foreign mercenaries to defend their
national security. Eventually, history teaches us, the land is taken over by
those cultures more committed to raising the future.

America, which like Europe has had birth rates below replacement levels for more
than a generation, is engaged now in trying out a third option: Replace children
with immigrants. Almost half of all new Americans, the "next generation," are
immigrants (approximately 1.1 million immigrants, the vast majority legal, vs.
1.2 million babies). As the population ages, the proportion of the next
generation who are immigrants will be even larger.

So, lately, I wonder: Can a culture really be passed on primarily through people
born and raised in foreign nations? Who will assimilate w hom? And what do we
get from continued high immigration that is worth the price paid by
working-class families?

Common sense urges: Cut legal immigration for a time, and change the formula to
admit more skilled workers. But will either a Republican Cong ress or a
Democratic president listen to common sense?

LOAD-DATE: November 22, 1996

LANGUAGE: English

                  Copyright 1996 St. Louis Post-Dispatch, Inc.


                              405 of 457 DOCUMENTS

                       St. Louis Post-Dispatch (Missouri)

               December 30, 1996, Monday, FIVE STAR LIFT Edition

TEEN IMMIGRANTS POLITELY KICK WAY INTO U.S. MAINSTREAM

BYLINE: Robert Lipsyte 1996, New York Times News Service

SECTION: ST. CHARLES; Pg. 5

LENGTH: 1566 words

DATELINE: NEW YORK


Revillino Jones did not want to play soccer in America because it made his heart
ache for Trinidad. But his sweet island looks gave him away. On Jones' first day
at high school in Manhattan three years ago, the new coach grabbed him in the
hallway and ordered him to try out for the team. Within a minute of watching the
16-year-old move with the ball, the coach knew he had found one of those
"gentleman jewels" from other lands who could help turn a perennial loser into a
champion.

For three weeks, Revillino Jones avoided the coach. At first, his mother agreed
with his decision; they had come for opportunities through education not sport.
But as Jones' homesickness deepened, it was his mother who finally told him to
go play, that only his love for the game would lift the sadness. It was fated.
After all, he was named for the Brazilian soccer star Roberto Rivelino.

This is a Christmas story so you can guess what happened next. Revillino Jones
plunged into Coach Martin Jacobson's "boiling melting pot" of native Africans,
South Americans and West Indians who last month brought the city's version of
the world cup, the traveling trophy of the Public Schools Athletic League, to a
cluttered, noisy guidance office at Martin Luther King Jr. High School.

"I love these kids," said Jacobson, a quicksilver 50-year-old with his own
immigrant baggage. "I love their calmness, their ambition. It's hard for them.
Their families do not, shall we say, always possess all the cards one needs in
this bigoted, inhumane immigration system.

"Call me a liberal. I help them get green cards. I buy them shoes. No kid who
starts for me will have to pay his way through college. I'll do anything I can
as long as they don't talk tough, dress funny or hang. When they do, when they
start becoming too American, I throw them off the team."

Let's slow down the pace a bit, just as this team does on the field, more
intricate movements, feathery touch passes, fewer booming, overarching
generalizations. Yes, there are elements of old fireside stories here,
hard-working immigrant youths, sports as a gateway to success, tough-love
coaches with a madness for the game. But Jacobson does not claim to be saving
young men from the streets with net dreams; most come from striver families.
Besides, soccer is no pot-of-gold sport here.

And because King is open to students from all boroughs, and Jacobson is deeply
enmeshed in the metropolitan area's soccer web, his success has become a
recruiting magnet. The school also has a good reputation for busin ess courses
and is in a fine neighborhood, across Amsterdam Avenue from Lincoln Center.

We can be sure only of this: On the West Side of Manhattan, in a school of 3,200
predominately Hispanic and American-born black students, soccer has become a
raft on which a small group of newcomers has entered the mainstream yet kept
their culture dry. Are there lessons here? What do they mean? You are on your
own.

In 1994, Jacobson, a guidance counselor for English as a second language
students at King the past 10 years, took over a failing soccer program. In the
same spirit in which white basketball coaches once mined black schoolyards, he
prowled ESL and bilingual classes for boys who had grown up dribbling with their
feet. High school was too late to teach them the skills; he would teach them to
merge their skills with others. It would not be easy in a school with no fields
and a population of about 100 students from soccer-playing countries. King has
good basketball - the boys' team won a city title two seasons ago - and enough
Dominicans to satisfy the baseball coach.

Revillino Jones was a good early catch. He started on a team that won 14 and
lost 2, an improvement over the previous year's 0-12-3. Last season, the team
was 13-2, losing in the semifinals to Wingate of Brooklyn, a perennial power
with a large immigrant population. This year, King not only won all 16 of its
games, but also scored 89 goals, while allowing only five.

Much of that scoring came from Barry Swift, who two years ago led Malick
Secondary Comprehensive School of Barataria, right outside Port of Spain, to the
Trinidadian title and was named the island's most valuable high school player.
Last year, he joined his father, a food service manager at Kings County Medical
Center, in Brooklyn. It was part of his master plan.

"I came here with worlds to conquer, to take my soccer to a new level," said
Swift, a 19-year-old senior with the easy poise of the winning superstar. "I'm
looking at St. John's, Virginia, L.I.U. and North Carolina. ..."

"Don't forget Central Connecticut," Jacobson said.

" ... and then I will be the best in Major League Soccer. Actually, most guys on
this team," Swift made a grand gesture at the grinning crowd around him, "could
play pro ball."

"That is not realistic," Jacobson snapped. "There are many good players in the
U.S. outside of New York who you haven't seen yet, and a lot of things can
happen in your life. The first goal," his deep-set, glittering eyes swept the
room into silence, "is to do well here and get in to college."

This was a few days after the championship banquet, just before the holiday
break, and members of the team drifted in and out of Jacobson's family room of a
guidance office, finishing term papers, stashing coats and book bags, gossiping
with each other, meeting a visitor. They were only momentarily chastened when
Jacobson added: "That is so American, Barry. You go out and talk to every kid in
the playgrounds of New York, he thinks he can play in the National Basketball
Association."

The idea of being "American" is not as alluring to these young men as it might
have been, say, to Jacobson's father, the son of Russian Jewish immigrants. The
"Trinis," as they call themselves, seem particularly contemptuous of Americans
who "don't talk decent and got their baggy pants down to here." Jacobson fuels
this sense of superiority. He tells them not to lose their culture, whether that
means working hard and staying "sweet" or avoiding do-rags and hoops. The racial
ironies here are simply not discussed.

Nor does Jacobson tell much of his own story. Born in Brooklyn, raised in Long
Beach, N.Y., he says he "became a punk" at 10, shoplifting, throwing rocks at
passing cars. His father was in the hospital, dying of diabetes, and his mother,
a beautician, was working seven days a week. A local cop named Bob Carroll
caught him stealing pistachio nuts from a Daitch Shopwell and dragged him to a
recreation center run by Herman Druckman, a concentration camp survivor with a
sometimes impenetrable accent. But Druckman taught the boy the language of
soccer.

"That was it," Jacobson said. "This stumpy old guy gave me direction and gave me
passion and saved my life. I knew then I wanted to coach soccer."

He became a star on Druckman's no-name teams and at Long Beach High where his
wrestling coach, Dave Finkel, reached out as well. At Ball State in Indiana,
Jacobson was the leading scorer and all-Midwest. He took an advanced degree and
coached in Michigan, Nanuet, and Santa Fe before returning to New York, first to
an elementary school, then to King. In 1990, he saw Finkel again at a coaches'
awards dinner. They remembered each other instantly, after almost 30 years.
Finkel had just won the city football title at Flushing, Jacobson the city
wrestling title at Stuyvesant.

Jacobson's personal life has been at least as lively. He preferred to describe
it this way: "I have numerous children by many relationships and I manage to
keep up with the interest on my credit cards."

Kevon Isa laughed at that. "We are so good because coach has no life."

Isa is a junior, a 6-foot-3-inch self-described "hefty lad born to be a sweeper
back" who loves to declaim on the team's "Trini tone." Yet the Trinis had to
meld their flashy Brazilian "saco samba" style with the stolid defense of
Gustavo Arriola, the little bull from Guatemala, who initially thought Isa
talked too much, and with Monsour Ndjaye, the intellectual striker from Senegal,
who prefers to read even on the subway to games. Monsour must send his homework
to Dakar every week so his parents, optometrists who sent him to live with an
uncle in Harlem, can be sure he is continuing to better himself.

"So far, they are satisfied," said Ndjaye, a 16-year-old junior whose precise
speech and button-down blue shirt made him seem older, and from another decade.
"I get all A's."

"It's my job to keep this melting pot at a boil," Jacobson said. "Eighteen
players, 10 countries. Did I mention Ivory Coast, Jamaica, Haiti, Brazil,
Ecuador, Argentina, Mexico. The manager's from Ghana. But we all speak soccer,
the language Mr. Druckman taught me. These kids are not stereotypical New York,
these kids are wonderful, respectful kids from families that care about them."

Like most of the 86 city teams playing soccer - like most city teams - equipment
and money is in short supply. The King soccer team practices in the gym when it
is available, in vacant lots, in nearby parks, on a few secret patches of land
where a gatekeeper can be greased.

Jacobson's $ 3,600 coaching fee breaks down to nearly minimum wage. The team
sells muffins to pay back some of the $ 2,000 that he says he puts on his credit
cards to pay for shoes, tape, ice packs, rental vans for out-of-town trips.

LOAD-DATE: December 30, 1996

LANGUAGE: English

                  Copyright 1996 St. Louis Post-Dispatch, Inc.


                              406 of 457 DOCUMENTS

                       St. Louis Post-Dispatch (Missouri)

                January 3, 1997, Friday, FIVE STAR LIFT EDITION

IMMIGRANTS ESSENTIAL TO THE RENEWAL OF AMERICA

BYLINE: Stephen Chapman; Copyright Creators Syndicate, Inc.

SECTION: EDITORIAL, Pg. 07B, STEPHEN CHAPMAN COLUMN

LENGTH: 761 words

DATELINE: CHICAGO


A few weeks ago, two Iraqi refugees married a pair of sisters from Lincoln, Neb.
Shortly afterward, the men found themselves in jail. Why? Because the girls were
only 13 and 14 - below the state's age of consent for marriage, which is 17.
Both grooms were charged with rape and face up to 50 years in jail. The girl's
father was charged with child abuse.

Being from Iraq, where such unions are not unheard of, the men were shocked to
be arrested. "They were only doing what we have done for centuries," a friend of
the men told The New York Times. "We did not know the law."

You may think this is just one of those unfortunate mistakes that happen when
newcomers arrive in the United States and fail to understand our mores. But not
according to opponents of immigration, who seize on it as proof of the mortal
danger created by our refusal pull up the drawbridge and tell all those huddled
masses to get lost.

Among the loudest voices against our existing immigration policies is William F.
Buckley's conservative magazine, National Review - nowadays edited by a Briton,
John O'Sullivan, who somehow makes an exception for himself. In the Dec. 23
issue, an editorial claims the Iraqi marriages are a case of "multiculturalism"
colliding with American culture and says multiculturalism is the direct result
of letting in too many of those strange foreigners.

The Iraqi refugees, declares National Review, "were encouraged to think they
could live in America as Iraqis." Yet, allowing them to do that would mean
relaxing our legal norms to accommodate child brides. "A multiplicity of
cultures weakens the hold that American values exert over us," argues the
magazine.

Another example, it says, is the Chinese immigrant who killed his unfaithful
wife and got probation after claiming that he was merely acting in accordance
with age-old Chinese custom. "Law grows out of culture and is buttressed by it,"
concludes National Review. "Destroy our common culture and the common law will
soon crumble."

This is a favorite theme of Buchananite conservatives. Peter Brimelow's book,
"Alien Nation," openly advocates using immigration policy to increase the
percentage of whites in the U.S. population. Brimelow laments that "the culture
of a country, exactly like its ecology, turns out to be a living thing,
sensitive and even fragile. Neither can easily be intruded on without
consequences."

But what common culture are they referring to that must be preserved? This
country began as a collection of British colonies, but a lot of Africans were
here from the beginning. States like Texas and California have always been
populated by large numbers of Latinos. Jews and Chinese started coming in large
numbers a century ago.

"Today, there are more people of Irish ancestry in the United States th an in
Ireland, more Jews than in Israel, more blacks than in most African countries,"
Hoover Institution scholar Thomas Sowell has written.

Far from being a delicate hothouse flower, American culture is the robust
product of multiple influences. "What is loosely and misleadingly called 'Anglo'
society or culture," says Sowell, "is in fact a mosaic with prominent features
of Semitic, Hispanic, Negro, Asiatic and other origins."

Most of the demands for "multicultural" programs come not from Koreans and
Pakistanis just off the boat but from African Americans and Hispanics, whose
roots in America go back centuries. They also come from such subgroups as
homosexuals and feminists that have no ethnic tinge at all.

National Review overlooks the fact that in marrying young teen-age girls, the
Iraqi immigrants didn't do anything necessarily at odds with American practice.
Six states permit females to marry at age 14 with parental consent, which these
girls had, and two allow it for 13-year-olds. If the men had contracted their
unions in one of these places, they would be in perfect conformity with the law.

The case of the Chinese husband who was treated leniently after killing his
adulterous spouse is not exactly an alien import, either. The law generally
regards spousal infidelity as a mitigating circumstance in homicides, justifying
a measure of mercy toward the killer. For better or worse, this immigrant is not
the first jealous husband to get off easy.

New arrivals may have a bit of trouble learning American ways, but the unvarying
pattern of our history is that they soon become part of our society and culture.
Put foreigners into most countries and you get outsiders. Put foreigners into
America and you get Americans.

LOAD-DATE: January 8, 1997

LANGUAGE: English

                  Copyright 1997 St. Louis Post-Dispatch, Inc.


                              407 of 457 DOCUMENTS

                       St. Louis Post-Dispatch (Missouri)

                January 5, 1997, Sunday, EARLY FIVE STAR EDITION

TEEN IMMIGRANTS KICK WAY INTO MAINSTREAM

BYLINE: Robert Lipsyte; 1996, New York Times News Service

SECTION: SPORTS, Pg. 07F

LENGTH: 1646 words

DATELINE: NEW YORK


Revillino Jones did not want to play soccer in America because it made his heart
ache for Trinidad. But his sweet island looks gave him away. On Jones' first day
at high school in Manhattan three years ago, the new coach grabbed him in the
hallway and ordered him to try out for the team. Within a minute of watching the
16-year-old move with the ball, the coach knew he had found one of those
"gentleman jewels" from other lands who could help turn a perennial loser into a
champion.

For three weeks, Revillino Jones avoided the coach. At first, his mother agreed
with his decision; they had come for opportunities through education not sport.
But as Jones' homesickness deepened, it was his mother who finally told him to
go play, that only his love for the game would lift the sadness. It was fated.
After all, he was named for the Brazilian soccer star Roberto Rivelino.

This is a Christmas story so you can guess what happened next. Revillino Jones
plunged into Coach Martin Jacobson's "boiling melting pot" of native Africans,
South Americans and West Indians who last month brought the city's version of
the world cup, the traveling trophy of the Public Schools Athletic League, to a
cluttered, noisy guidance office at Martin Luther King Jr. High School.

"I love these kids," said Jacobson, a quicksilver 50-year-old with his own
immigrant baggage. "I love their calmness, their ambition. It's hard for them.
Their families do not, shall we say, always possess all the cards one needs in
this bigoted, inhumane immigration system.

"Call me a liberal. I help them get green cards. I buy them shoes. No kid who
starts for me will have to pay his way through college. I'll do anything I can
as long as they don't talk tough, dress funny or hang. When they do, when they
start becoming too American, I throw them off the team."

Let's slow down the pace a bit, just as this team does on the field, more
intricate movements, feathery touch passes, fewer booming, overarching
generalizations. Yes, there are elements of old fireside stories here,
hard-working immigrant youths, sports as a gateway to success, tough-love
coaches with a madness for the game. But Jacobson does not claim to be saving
young men from the streets with net dreams; most come from striver families.
Besides, soccer is no pot-of-gold sport here.

And because King is open to students from all boroughs, and Jacobson is deeply
enmeshed in the metropolitan area's soccer web, his success has become a
recruiting magnet. The school also has a good reputation for business courses
and is in a fine neighborhood, across Amsterdam Avenue from Lincoln Center.

We can be sure only of this: On the West Side of Manhattan, in a school of 3,200
predominately Hispanic and American-born black students, soccer has become a
raft on which a small group of newcomers has entered the mainstream yet kept
their culture dry. Are there lessons here? What do they mean? You are on your
own.

In 1994, Jacobson, a guidance counselor for English as a second language
students at King the past 10 years, took over a failing soccer program. In the
same spirit in which white basketball coaches once mined black schoolyards, he
prowled ESL and bilingual classes for boys who had grown up dribbling with their
feet. High school was too late to teach them the skills; he would teach them to
merge their skills with others. It would not be easy in a school with no fields
and a population of about 100 students from soccer-playing countries. King has
good basketball - the boys' team won a city title two seasons ago - and enough
Dominicans to satisfy the baseball coach.

Revillino Jones was a good early catch. He started on a team that won 14 and
lost 2, an improvement over the previous year's 0-12-3. Last season, the team
was 13-2, losing in the semifinals to Wingate of Brooklyn, a perennial power
with a large immigrant population. This year, King not only won all 16 of its
games, but also scored 89 goals, while allowing only five.

Much of that scoring came from Barry Swift, who two years ago led Malick
Secondary Comprehensive School of Barataria, right outside Port of Spain, to the
Trinidadian title and was named the island's most valuable high school player.
Last year, he joined his father, a food service manager at Kings County Medical
Center, in Brooklyn. It was part of his master plan.

"I came here with worlds to conquer, to take my soccer to a new level," said
Swift, a 19-year-old senior with the easy poise of the winning superstar. "I'm
looking at St. John's, Virginia, L.I.U. and North Carolina. ..."

"Don't forget Central Connecticut," Jacobson said.

" ... and then I will be the best in Major League Soccer. Actually, most guys on
this team," Swift made a grand gesture at the grinning crowd around him, "could
play pro ball."

"That is not realistic," Jacobson snapped. "There are many good players in the
U.S. outside of New York who you haven't seen yet, and a lot of things can
happen in your life. The first goal," his deep-set, glittering eyes swept the
room into silence, "is to do well here and get in to college."

This was a few days after the championship banquet, just before the holiday
break, and members of the team drifted in and out of Jacobson's family room of a
guidance office, finishing term papers, stashing coats and book bags, gossiping
with each other, meeting a visitor. They were only momentarily chastened when
Jacobson added: "That is so American, Barry. You go out and talk to every kid in
the playgrounds of New York, he thinks he can play in the National Basketball
Association."

The idea of being "American" is not as alluring to these young men as it might
have been, say, to Jacobson's father, the son of Russian Jewish immigrants. The
"Trinis," as they call themselves, seem particularly contemptuous of Americans
who "don't talk decent and got their baggy pants down to here." Jacobson fuels
this sense of superiority. He tells them not to lose their culture, whether that
means working hard and staying "sweet" or avoiding do-rags and hoops. The racial
ironies here are simply not discussed.

Nor does Jacobson tell much of his own story. Born in Brooklyn, raised in Long
Beach, N.Y., he says he "became a punk" at 10, shoplifting, throwing rocks at
passing cars. His father was in the hospital, dying of diabetes, and his mother,
a beautician, was working seven days a week. A local cop named Bob Carroll
caught him stealing pistachio nuts from a Daitch Shopwell and dragged him to a
recreation center run by Herman Druckman, a concentration camp survivor with a
sometimes impenetrable accent. But Druckman taught the boy the language of
soccer.

"That was it," Jacobson said. "This stumpy old guy gave me direction and gave me
passion and saved my life. I knew then I wanted to coach soccer."

He became a star on Druckman's no-name teams and at Long Beach High where his
wrestling coach, Dave Finkel, reached out as well. At Ball State in Indiana,
Jacobson was the leading scorer and all-Midwest. He took an advanced degree and
coached in Michigan, Nanuet, and Santa Fe before returning to New York, first to
an elementary school, then to King. In 1990, he saw Finkel again at a coaches'
awards dinner. They remembered each other instantly, after almost 30 years.
Finkel had just won the city football title at Flushing, Jacobson the city
wrestling title at Stuyvesant.

Jacobson's personal life has been at least as lively. He preferred to describe
it this way: "I have numerous children by many relationships and I manage to
keep up with the interest on my credit cards."

Kevon Isa laughed at that. "We are so good because coach has no life."

Isa is a junior, a 6-foot-3-inch self-described "hefty lad born to be a sweeper
back" who loves to declaim on the team's "Trini tone." Yet the Trinis had to
meld their flashy Brazilian "saco samba" style with the s tolid defense of
Gustavo Arriola, the little bull from Guatemala, who initially thought Isa
talked too much, and with Monsour Ndjaye, the intellectual striker from Senegal,
who prefers to read even on the subway to games. Monsour must send his homework
to Dakar every week so his parents, optometrists who sent him to live with an
uncle in Harlem, can be sure he is continuing to better himself.

"So far, they are satisfied," said Ndjaye, a 16-year-old junior whose precise
speech and button-down blue shirt made him seem older, and from another decade.
"I get all A's."

"It's my job to keep this melting pot at a boil," Jacobson said. "Eighteen
players, 10 countries. Did I mention Ivory Coast, Jamaica, Haiti, Brazil,
Ecuador, Argentina, Mexico. The manager's from Ghana. But we all speak soccer,
the language Mr. Druckman taught me. These kids are not stereotypical New York,
these kids are wonderful, respectful kids from families that care about them."

Like most of the 86 city teams playing soccer - like most city teams - equipment
and money is in short supply. The King soccer team practices in the gym when it
is available, in vacant lots, in nearby parks, on a few secret patches of land
where a gatekeeper can be greased. The team hardly ever practices on a field
with goal posts, which is why they rehearse their corner kicks during halftime
of games.

Jacobson's $ 3,600 coaching fee breaks down to nearly minimum wage. The team
sells muffins to pay back some of the $ 2,000 that he says he puts on his credit
cards to pay for shoes, tape, ice packs, rental vans for out-of-town trips.

On those trips, each player must ride and room with a teammate from another
country. In upstate New York and in Virginia, they were rated best guests of all
time ("We speak decent, dress nice, very polite," Jones said). The most untoward
incident was hefty Isa's slipping away from a practice to play cricket with a
team of Indians.

LOAD-DATE: January 8, 1997

LANGUAGE: English

                  Copyright 1997 St. Louis Post-Dispatch, Inc.


                              408 of 457 DOCUMENTS

                       St. Louis Post-Dispatch (Missouri)

               January 11, 1997, Saturday, FIVE STAR LIFT EDITION

IMMIGRANT'S KILLER GETS LIFE

SECTION: NEWS, Pg. 12

LENGTH: 177 words


Jermaine Givens, who hijacked the car of an immigrant and then killed him,
received life in prison without parole Friday.

Givens, 23, pleaded guilty in October to federal charges of carjacking in which
a death occurred and to using a gun in a crime.

He shot Thanh Tan Le on Feb. 26 with a 12-guage shotgun.

Detectives said Givens had taken Le's Toyota Camry from in front of the victim's
flat in the 4300 block of Oregon Avenue so he could visit a friend in north St.
Louis County.

U.S. Attorney Edward L. Dowd said Le had been "a good citizen and upstanding
member of our community."

U.S. District Judge Donald J. Stohr sentenced Givens.

Givens confessed that he had planned to sell the Camry for $ 1,000 to the owner
of a "chop shop."

Le's wife, Nhan Thi Ho, witnessed the killing. Le, 55, was a caseworker for the
International Institute, helping Vietnamese immigrants. He had been a colonel in
the South Vietnamese Army and later spent eight years in a re-education camp. He
and his family arrived in St. Louis in 1994.

LOAD-DATE: January 11, 1997

LANGUAGE: English

                  Copyright 1997 St. Louis Post-Dispatch, Inc.


                              409 of 457 DOCUMENTS

                       St. Louis Post-Dispatch (Missouri)

                  January 26, 1997, Sunday, THREE STAR EDITION

IMMIGRATION LAWYER SETTLES SCAM CHARGES;
MISLED GREEN-CARD HOPEFULS, COMPLAINT SAYS

BYLINE: 1997, Newsday

SECTION: NEWS, Pg. 07A

LENGTH: 335 words

DATELINE: LOS ANGELES


An immigration lawyer based in Los Angeles has been charged with misleading tens
of thousands of potential clients worldwide about how he could increase their
odds of winning the green-card lottery.

The complaint, by the Federal Trade Commission, also alleges that the lawyer,
David Amkraut, jeopardized his clients' chances of being selected for the State
Department-run program by filing multiple entries.

The charges were announced Thursday as immigrants from around the world prepared
to submit their entries in hopes of being chosen to apply for the 55,000 visas
that the U.S. government issues under this program every year. Entries are being
accepted between Feb. 3 and March 5. Those selected to apply will be notified by
October.

"Green-card lottery scams prey on individuals who don't know the rules of the
State Department's lottery," said Jodi Bernstein, director of the FTC's Bureau
of Consumer Protection.

"Unscrupulous businesses or attorneys who claim they can increase your chance of
winning the lottery give false hope to thousands of immigrants looking for the
chance to live permanently in the United States," she added.

As part of a settlement of these charges, Amkraut has agreed to contact all
clients he assisted in lotteries held in 1994 and 1995 and to provide his
services free of charge to them for this latest lottery, the FTC said.

In the agency's complaint against Amkraut, it cites the lawyer for marketing his
services in advertisements as having "increased - even doubled, tripled, and
quadrupled - our clients' chances."

Amkraut charged $ 50 to help individuals to apply and $ 75 for married couples,
according to the FTC. In addition, once his clients were chosen, he charged
between $ 950 and $ 1,250 to help fill out their applications.

The FTC explained that entries are selected at random and that a person who
submits more than one entry is disqualified from the lottery. The State
Department does not require a fee to enter the lottery.

LOAD-DATE: January 26, 1997

LANGUAGE: English

                  Copyright 1997 St. Louis Post-Dispatch, Inc.


                              410 of 457 DOCUMENTS

                       St. Louis Post-Dispatch (Missouri)

                  March 1, 1997, Saturday, THREE STAR EDITION

DURBIN WANTS TO CLOSE LOOPHOLE IN GUN LAWS

BYLINE: Philip Dine; Post-Dispatch Washington Bureau

SECTION: NEWS, Pg. 2

LENGTH: 338 words

DATELINE: WASHINGTON


* The shooting at the Empire State Building exposed the fact that legal aliens
can easily buy guns.

Spurred by the shootings at the Empire State Building, Sen. Dick Durbin, D-Ill.,
is proposing legislation to close what he called "a glaring gap in U.S. law that
recently allowed a foreign national on a tourist visa to purchase a gun, travel
to another state and shoot seven people, killing one."

Durbin's legislation, submitted with Sen. Edward M. Kennedy, D-Mass., would make
it illegal to sell a gun to an alien who has entered the country on a
non-immigrant visa. Durbin said such visa applications now do not require a
criminal background check.

He said the bill would "address problems created by the fact that the criminal
background check required by the Brady Law can't be done on criminal records in
other countries."

Durbin, a member of the Judiciary subcommittee on technology, terrorism and
government information and the subcommittee on immigration, said the "United
States should not be a one-stop shop for would-be terrorists. The fact is that
any foreign national coming into this country on a tourist visa could probably
buy a gun more easily than you or I could."

Almost 60 varieties of non-immigrant visas exist, he said, including student
visas, temporary work visas and tourist visas. He said more than 20 million
people come to the United States each year on such visas, not including visitors
from Canada and Mexico.

Besides making it illegal to sell a gun to an alien entering the country on a
non-immigrant visa, the bill also would make it illegal for a non-immigrant
alien to buy, possess or transfer a firearm or ammunition. There would be two
exceptions: Foreigners entering the country with legitimate law-enforcement,
diplomatic, sporting or hunting purposes would be allowed to have guns; and
non-immigrant aliens who have lived in the country for six months and can prove
they don't have a criminal record in their country of origin could apply for a
waiver to buy a gun.

LOAD-DATE: March 1, 1997

LANGUAGE: English

                  Copyright 1997 St. Louis Post-Dispatch, Inc.


                              411 of 457 DOCUMENTS

                       St. Louis Post-Dispatch (Missouri)

                 March 10, 1997, Monday, FIVE STAR LIFT EDITION

IRISH STORY: MYSTERY, MELANCHOLY, POLITICS

BYLINE: Bill McClellan

SECTION: NEWS, Pg. 01B, BILL MCCLELLAN ON MY OWN COLUMN

LENGTH: 763 words


SOMETIME TUESDAY morning, Matthew Morrison will leave his house in University
City and go downtown for a conference at the office of the Immigration and
Naturalization Service. At the conference, the INS will present its formal
charges against him.

It promises to be the next-to-the-last step in the forced march back to Northern
Ireland. The final step will be the actual deportation hearing. Expect that
sometime this summer.

Morrison's story is well known to regular readers. Born in Derry, he joined the
Irish Republican Army as a teen-ager. In 1975, when he was 19 years old, he was
arrested for firing an errant shot at a member of the Royal Ulster Constabulary.
He was convicted and served 10 years in prison.

After lying on his visa application - he said he had never been convicted of a
crime - he came to this country and married Francie Broderick. They have two
young children.

After the birth of his second child, he applied for legal residency status.
Initially, things seemed promising. That's because the law allowed the
government to forgive his criminal conviction - if the crime in question
occurred more than 15 years before the request for adjustment of status, or if
deportation would result in extreme hardship to the U.S. citizen spouse or
citizen children.

Back then, when things looked promising, the Morrison story seemed to be a legal
story.

Now there are some local conspiracy buffs who wonder if it's not something out
of a John Le Carre thriller.

To understand their theory, you need a little background. First, there is the
matter of the widespread support for Morrison.

Gov. Mel Carnahan has written the president. Congressman Bill Clay, who was
aboard early, and Congressman Richard Gephardt, who came aboard recently, have
written the president. The Missouri State Senate and Missouri House have passed
resolutions supporting Morrison.

Perhaps the most dramatic show of support came from the Derry City Council,
which in December unanimously passed a resolution urging Clinton not to go
through with the deportation. What made this resolution so dramatic was the fact
that the council includes members of both the pro-British Unionist Party and the
Democratic Unionist Party, which is headed by Ian Paisley, the firebrand of the
Protestant cause and an outspoken opponent of the IRA.

"This has nothing to do with politics," said a DUP member. "It's strictly
humanitarian."

Indeed. Even the mayor of Derry wrote Clinton a letter. Yet the president
refuses to budge.

The second thing you have to understand is the president's policies on
immigration. Not to put too fine a point on it, but one could argue that his
policies seem to be driven solely by politics.

Last week, the Washington Post reported that the White House pressured the INS
to speed up citizenship approvals before the last election. This speed-up
apparently resulted in about 71,000 immigrants being naturalized, even though
they had criminal records, and another 180,000 granted citizenship without
criminal background checks.

Last year, The Associated Press reported that the administration was allowing
homosexuality as a reason for granting political asylum, on the basis of gays
being discriminated against in their homelands. Most striking was the case of
the illegal alien from Togo who was HIV-positive.

The president is trying to placate the gay community, critics charged.

If you believe that our president is really a politics-first guy, why, then,
wouldn't he help Morrison? Morrison enjoys widespread support in the
Irish-American community, and the president's stance on abortion, and especially
his veto of the partial-birth abortion bill, put him at odds with that large
block of voters.

So why has he refused to budge?

The conspiracy buffs answer that question with one of their own: What if the
British Intelligence Service - Smiley's people from LeCarre - have something on
Clinton?

After all, it's not unreasonable to think that Smiley's people kept an eye on
the young Americans who were in England protesting the Vietnam War, and Clinton,
during his Oxford days, was a mover and shaker in the anti-war movement.

In fact, it was while he was studying in England that he made his famous trip to
Moscow. Would that not have attracted the attention of the watchers? Maybe they
learned something we don't know.

So goes the talk, anyway, late at night in certain local saloons where Guinness
is the drink of choice. I pass it on to those of you who like to muse about
tinkers and tailors, soldiers and spies.

LOAD-DATE: March 10, 1997

LANGUAGE: English

                  Copyright 1997 St. Louis Post-Dispatch, Inc.


                              412 of 457 DOCUMENTS

                       St. Louis Post-Dispatch (Missouri)

                 March 14, 1997, Friday, FIVE STAR LIFT EDITION

6 INDICTED IN PONZI SCHEME;
BOGUS NEW YORK TRADERS PREYED ON ASIAN IMMIGRANTS FOR MILLIONS

BYLINE: 1997,; Reuters News Service

SECTION: BUSINESS, Pg. 07C

LENGTH: 370 words

DATELINE: NEW YORK


Six defendants have been indicted for running a multimillion dollar Ponzi scheme
in which they used high-tech, bogus trading rooms to convince investors they
were executing real currency transactions, federal prosecutors said Thursday.

The defendants, all of Asian descent, primarily preyed on Korean and Chinese
immigrants. However, prosecutors said lawyers at a high profile Wall Street firm
had also been duped. They refused to name the firm.

The scheme was run from April 1992 through February 1995 through International
Investment Corp. (KIIC), which has since been closed by regulators. The firm,
which offered 24-hour trading, operated out of an office building equipped with
high-tech trading terminals.

Mary Jo White, the U.S. Attorney for the Southern District of New York, said the
scheme was the latest example of a growing number of Ponzi schemes involving the
currency market.

Prosecutors said hundreds of individuals lost investments ranging from $ 6,000
to $ 300,000 in the scheme. They said total losses exceeded $ 5 million.

The indictment said the firm offered to provide customers with access to the
worldwide market for foreign currencies that had previously been limited to
banks, large institutions and a few wealthy individuals.

Customers could buy or sell spot market contracts by opening an account at KIIC
for a minimum $ 10,000, which would be charged commissions for trades.

The indictment charged that the defendants ran KIIC as a massive Ponzi scheme in
which they told investors they were executing thousands of trades in the spot
market and provided bogus account statements.

Instead of using investors' funds for trades, KIIC used the money to pay
salaries and operating costs.

The firm offered two types of accounts. One was known as a "self-trader" in
which a customer could come into the "trading floor," get price quotes and fill
out an order ticket indicating whether they wished to buy or sell a spot market
contract at the quoted price.

Customers could also open a "senior trader" account giving a KIIC employee
discretion over the trades.

Prosecutors said that KIIC did not execute all of the customers orders,
regardless of the type of account.

LOAD-DATE: March 14, 1997

LANGUAGE: English

                  Copyright 1997 St. Louis Post-Dispatch, Inc.


                              413 of 457 DOCUMENTS

                       St. Louis Post-Dispatch (Missouri)

                March 15, 1997, Saturday, FIVE STAR LIFT EDITION

'SECOND CIVIL WAR': FEARS VISUALIZED

BYLINE: Gary Dretzka; Of The Chicago Tribune

SECTION: ENTERTAINMENT, Pg. 33

LENGTH: 769 words

DATELINE: HOLLYWOOD


In screenwriter Martyn Burke's paranoid fantasy, there's absurdity on all sides.


*   *   *   *   *

ONE of the problems with trying to write a black comedy based on current events
is that it has become almost impossible to out-satirize anything already on the
evening news.

Screenwriter and novelist Martyn Burke thought he was straddling the cutting
edge when he began "The Second Civil War," an intensely pessimistic
state-of-the-union message. The original HBO movie, which debuts at 8 tonight,
comments on such hot-button issues as immigration, racial intolerance,
right-wing militias, street gangs, politically correct social policies and
tabloid journalism.

As it turned out, Burke had to pedal pretty fast just to stay ahead of reality -
especially in California.

"I completed the script a year ago, and ever since then, the headlines have been
chasing the scripts," said Burke, sitting in a conference room constructed for
the film. "Everything from the O.J. verdict, and do we have a jury system
anymore that works; to Proposition 209, knocking down affirmative action; to
immigration; to language training in schools. It's amazing. It's a case of art
mirroring life mirroring art."

As Burke sees it, the message is quite simple: "This is what happens when the
melting pot stops melting," he said, pointing out that he, too, is an immigrant
- albeit from Canada. "We live in an age when everyone is being told to hang on
to their heritage. If you come to America, you don't have to worry about being
an American because assimilation may not be necessary or mandatory anymore.

"Well, I think, sometimes, under the weight of that, what you get are the lumps
at the bottom of the pot that once was a melting pot. You're left with
factions."

Set only slightly in the future, "The Second Civil War" imagines a scenario in
which illegal immigrants from Mexico have blown up the Alamo, right-wingers have
destroyed the Statue of Liberty, Rhode Island has been taken over by Asians and
the xenophobic governor of Idaho has defied the president by refusing to allow a
busload of Pakistani orphans to enter his state. The children, it seems, were
flown to the United States after a nuclear bomb was detonated in their homeland.

When the president's team of image massagers decides to draw a line in the sand
over the governor's hypocritical stand on immigration (in fact, he is having an
affair with a Mexican-born reporter), the possibility of armed insurrection
looms heavy on the horizon. Of course, this suits the cynical executives of the
ratings-starved NewsNet channel just fine.

"He's closing the borders, people," exclaims news producer Mel Burgess, when he
learns of Idaho's plans to secede. "Thank God for arrogance, lust and greed, or
we'd all be doing infomercials. Let's go, people, I smell a 20 share."

No one, with the exception of a seasoned reporter played with weary d ignity by
James Earl Jones, comes off very well in Burke's paranoid fantasy. As an
outsider and former documentary maker, the writer felt compelled to say
something about what he saw happening in America, and his preferred forum for
commentary was comedy.

"I felt absurdity on all sides here, and I love movies like 'Dr. Strangelove,"'
he said. "I have never been involved in anything where the cast and crew have
gotten so into the script that they've come up to me and told me that it's right
out of what they've been thinking. It's the fear, and with fear comes absurdity.

"Here, in Southern California, we lead generally a fairly good life. Yet,
everyone who expresses fear of immigrants probably gets their car washed by
illegal immigrants, and the stuff they eat is handled by busboys who also are
illegal immigrants."

"The Second Civil War" asks difficult questions, and its creators aren't blind
to the possibility that viewers might be offended by what they see on the screen
and, perhaps, in themselves. As such, it fits neatly within HBO's strategy of
presenting the kinds of provocative films major studios have stopped making.

"This movie and 'Norma Jean and Marilyn,' which HBO brought me in on, both were
pictures that people thought were being made as feature films because of their
production values," said producer Guy Riedel, taking a break in his trailer.
"HBO is making sophisticated pictures you can't get in the theaters or, because
of costs, see on network television. HBO's found a niche by doing pictures with
subject matter that shakes some people up and makes others very interested in
it."

"Second Civil War"

When: 8 tonight

Where: HBO

LOAD-DATE: March 16, 1997

LANGUAGE: English

GRAPHIC: PHOTO, Photo - James Earl Jones stars in HBO's "The Second Civil War."

                  Copyright 1997 St. Louis Post-Dispatch, Inc.


                              414 of 457 DOCUMENTS

                       St. Louis Post-Dispatch (Missouri)

                March 15, 1997, Saturday, FIVE STAR LIFT EDITION

SPEAKING THEIR LANGUAGE

BYLINE: Patric Rice; Post-Dispatch Religion Writer

SECTION: RELIGION, Pg. 25

LENGTH: 896 words


Sunday marked a coming of age for many second-generation Korean-Americans here.
After a year of talk, a Korean-language Protestant church in Kirkwood started a
weekly English-language adult service.

Nearly 40 second-generation Korean-American Presbyterians between 17 and 30
worshiped in a chapel. During the same hour, first-generation Korean-Americans
prayed in the main Korean Presbyterian Church at 10032 Manchester Road,
Kirkwood.

Backed by a guitar, the young adults ended the hour-long service by singing a
contemporary-style hymn, "Rejoice Today." Smiles ringed the faces of many of the
young adults as they walked to a Korean lunch in the basement church hall.

"It's about more than guitars and music," said Peter Chou, 22, a lifetime member
of the 26-year-old, 200-member congregation, and a recent graduate of the
University of Illinois.

Most adults in the Korean-language service came to this country after 1965 when
federal immigration quotas limiting the percentage of Asian immigrants were
ended. Korean immigrants were so determined that their children do well in
America that many insisted that the children speak English at home. Sunday
school classes and a children's worship service were in English. As a result,
many of Chou's friends do not understand Korean well enough to get the nuances
of Scripture, he said.

"We have to pray in English if we want young Koreans to know that Jesus is the
way, truth and the life," Chou said. "That's the only way we can tell them that
Jesus will fill that algebraic X variable which Generation Xers are searching
for."

Chou and about seven other young adults worked with the congregation's senior
pastor, Jung Kon Suh, to start English services and hire Paul C. Fox to lead
them. Fox, a Covenant Seminary student, also leads a Sunday evening Bible
discussion in English.

Lynn Kanga, 25, one of the organizers of the new English service, grew up in the
Full Gospel Church but is more at home at the English Presbyterian service, she
said.

Though the Korean-born pastor Suh got three degrees from American colleges, he
says the second generation has difficulty relating to him. Nationally, many
second-generation Korean-Americans have stopped going to Korean-language
churches.

"We need to be steppingstones for the next generation," pastor Suh said.

While 20 percent of Koreans in Korea are Christians, about 70 percent of Korean
immigrants in this country are affiliated with a Christian church. The country
has more than 2,000 Korean-language churches. In the last few years, about 20
second-generation, English-speaking Korean churches have opened on both coasts.
None is in St. Louis.

About 5,000 Korean-Americans live here. Congregations including Nazarene, Full
Gospel, Catholic, another Presbyterian and nondenomina tional groups here also
have Korean-language services. The Korean Full Gospel Church in Chesterfield
provides earphones to non-Korean speakers so they can hear a simultaneous
English translation.

The 25-year-old, 250-member St. Andrew Kim Korean Catholic Church in Ellisville
expects eventually to face the need for an English Mass, said Dr. Gemma Jung
Sook Kim, a physician and leader of its parish Legion of Mary, an evangelical
outreach group. So far, only five of the parish's students have returned to the
region after college graduation, she said. All attend English-speaking Catholic
churches.

"We should have Mass in English when our children need it," she said. Now parish
teens and children have the first part of the Mass in English in another room
and join their parents after the sermon for the unchanging words of the Mass in
Korean.

To engage young adults will take more than a change of language, said Young Pai,
dean emeritus of the University of Missouri at Kansas City School of Education.
He immigrated to this country a half-century ago and has studied Korean-American
adolescents.

Asian children have a problem that is different from the German, Italian,
Polish, Hungarian and other non-English-speaking immigrants who came here, he
said. Second-generation Korean-Americans growing up in middle-class suburbia are
often sheltered, he said. Then, in college or when they get their first job,
they find that people think because of their race that they are recent arrivals,
and "not American," he said.

On campus they often don't feel comfortable in English-speaking student
services, he said. Many are awkward outside their small circle and avoid church,
he said. In his studies of Korean-American teens, he found that parents have
"pretty narrow" aims for their children - concentrating on academic work and
getting into Ivy League colleges. To get there, Korean-Americans sacrifice
social and interpersonal skills.

"When they have to deal with people of diverse background, they may become
passive-aggressive," he said. Many parents don't speak English well enough to
communicate with their children. Many are away from home working 18 to 20 hours
a day, he said. His studies showed that by ninth grade the second generation has
no one to confide problems to. An English-speaking ethnic church may help bridge
the gap.

After the first English service at the Kirkwood church, a smiling Suzanne Kim,
24, said the second-generation congregation will foster culture, community and
faith.

"It's a great idea," she said.

LOAD-DATE: March 16, 1997

LANGUAGE: English

GRAPHIC: PHOTO, GRAPHIC, (1) Color Photo by Larry Williams/Post-Dispatch -- The
congregation prays during the first English-language service at the Kirkwood
Presyterian Church last Sunday.
 (2) Color Graphic/ Pie Chart - Religious Practices of Korean-Americans
 42% Presbyterian -  14% Catholic - 14% Methodist - 14% Other Protestant - 13%
Non-denominational Christian - 33% Other

                  Copyright 1997 St. Louis Post-Dispatch, Inc.


                              415 of 457 DOCUMENTS

                       St. Louis Post-Dispatch (Missouri)

                March 15, 1997, Saturday, FIVE STAR LIFT EDITION

IMMIGRANT CHARGED IN KILLING OF COSBY

BYLINE: AP

SECTION: NEWS, Pg. 2

LENGTH: 283 words

DATELINE: LOS ANGELES


Prosecutors filed a murder charge Friday against a young Russian immigrant in
the shooting of Bill Cosby's son, adding an allegation that could result in the
death penalty if he is convicted.

Mikail Markhasev, 18, was charged Friday with murder, attempted robbery and use
of a firearm during commission of a crime in the Jan. 16 killing of Ennis Cosby,
who was shot to death while changing a tire near a freeway.

The allegation that Ennis Cosby, 27, was killed during an attempted robbery is a
so-called special circumstance that could allow prosecutors to seek the death
penalty.

Markhasev, who was brought into a courtroom where the judge had banned cameras,
did not enter a plea Friday.

Judge Michael Kellogg set another hearing for March 28 and ordered Markhasev
held without bail.

Markhasev was described as a better-than-average student and hard worker at his
job in a plant store, but he also had a juvenile criminal record that landed him
in a probation camp for six months in 1995.

"He just seemed like a nice kid who lived down the block," said Jim Herzoff,
owner of Mainly Seconds Pottery Plants & Things, where Markhasev was hired last
month as a cashier.

Markhasev was arrested Wednesday at the two-bedroom apartment he shared with his
mother in North Hollywood.

They were quiet tenants, said Olga Faynshteyn, the building manager.

Markhasev came to the United States as a refugee from the collapsing Soviet
Union in 1989 and is not a U.S. citizen, a federal official said.

He was in and out of schools in Los Angeles, West Hollywood and Orange County
and earned a "B" average at Reseda High School, where he was enrolled for less
than a year.

LOAD-DATE: March 15, 1997

LANGUAGE: English

GRAPHIC: PHOTO, Photo headshot - (Mikail) Markhasev

                  Copyright 1997 St. Louis Post-Dispatch, Inc.


                              416 of 457 DOCUMENTS

                       St. Louis Post-Dispatch (Missouri)

                March 18, 1997, Tuesday, FIVE STAR LIFT EDITION

IMMIGRATION SERVICE REFUSES TO SHOW MERCY IN DEPORTATION CASE

BYLINE: Anthony Lewis; Copyright New York Times News Service

SECTION: EDITORIAL, Pg. 07B, ANTHONY LEWIS COLUMN

LENGTH: 714 words

DATELINE: BOSTON


If you have tears, prepare to shed them. Not so much for the subject of the
story that follows as for the humane tradition in our law, which is being sapped
by Congress and the attorney general.

Engin Yesil is a native of Turkey who came to the United States as a student in
1979. He married an American and in 1988 was granted lawful permanent residence.
He lives in New York and has run a contact lens business.

In 1990, Yesil pleaded guilty to aiding the distribution of cocaine and was
sentenced to six years in prison. After being sentenced - not as part of a plea
bargain - he infiltrated a drug organization and, federal authorities said,
helped bring about "many arrests and multi-kilogram drug confiscations." The
U.S. attorney in charge of his case praised his "significant cooperation," and a
judge said he had acted "at great risk to his life."

The drug conviction made Yesil subject to deportation. He asked for a waiver
under a provision of law allowing the attorney general to show mercy when there
are ameliorating circumstances.

The Immigration and Naturalization Service found that Yesil was ineligible for a
waiver because, under technical rules of counting, he had not been a permanent
resident long enough. The decision conflicted with a long-established
interpretation of the law by the 2nd U.S. Circuit Court of Appeals in New York,
so Yesil's lawyers petitioned for review there.

But in the anti-terrorism law enacted last year, and again in its immigration
law, Congress provided that orders of deportation against people like Yesil,
whether legally right or wrong, "shall not be subject to review by any court."
The 2nd Circuit dismissed his petition.

Yesil's lawyers then sought habeas corpus in U.S. District Court in New York.
Habeas corpus is an ancient writ that tests the lawfulness of anyone's
detention. The Constitution gives it special status, saying that the writ "shall
not be suspended unless when in cases of rebellion or invasion the public safety
may require it." But the Justice Department argued that Congress had, lawfully,
barred its use in these deportation cases.

Last month, U.S. District Judge Denny Chin held that Yesil could test the
legality of the INS decision by habeas corpus. He found that, under the
established law of the 2nd Circuit, Yesil was eligible to apply for waiver of
deportation.

In his opinion, Chin remarked on the "inexplicable fervor" with which the
Justice Department had tried to deny Yesil "any opportunity for judicial
review."

Happy ending? No. For the government is now trying to invoke against Yesil
provisions of the new anti-terrorism and immigration laws that wipe out the
whole idea of waiver - of mercy - for those under orders of deportation.

That raises another question: Do the new laws apply retroactively, to people who
were in the process of qualifying for waivers of deportation when Congress
passed the new law? The Board of Immigration Appeals decided last year that they
do not.

But Attorney General Janet Reno, in a rare action, overruled that decision. In
an opinion issued last month, she ruled that the new bar to waiver of
deportation must be applied to all previously pending cases.

The usual principle in American law is that people's rights are not wiped out
retroactively unless Congress says to do so, which it did not say here. Reno was
unmoved by that principle, or for that matter by the human facts. One finds in
her opinion no hint of understanding that what is at stake in taking a man from
his family and home is, as Justice Louis Brandeis said, "all that makes life
worth living."

The new immigration provisions, extraordinary in their harshness, were pushed
through Congress by people who do not like immigrants and want to punish them.
But why is Reno so relentless? My guess is that she wants to look tough these
days - but does not know the difference between being tough and being mean.

The Immigration Service is not an agency so respected that we want it to operate
without any legal check. But Reno's fervor is more dangerous than that. Never
before in peacetime has our government tried to eliminate habeas corpus, leaving
people with no way to check official abuse. The next time it may not be an
immigrant. It may be you.

LOAD-DATE: March 18, 1997

LANGUAGE: English

                  Copyright 1997 St. Louis Post-Dispatch, Inc.


                              417 of 457 DOCUMENTS

                       St. Louis Post-Dispatch (Missouri)

                   April 8, 1997, Tuesday, THREE STAR EDITION

U.S. IMMIGRATION AGENCY OFFICIAL OUT OF HONG KONG INVESTIGATED

BYLINE: Compiled From News Services

SECTION: NEWS, Pg. 09A

LENGTH: 209 words

DATELINE: WASHINGTON


A U.S. officer from the Immigration and Naturalization Service in Hong Kong is
the subject of an official inquiry and has been placed on administrative leave
with pay, the agency said Monday.

Agency spokesman Russ Bergeron said James DeBates, assistant officer in charge
of the immigration agency's office in Hong Kong, is currently in the United
States. At the State Department, spokesman Nicholas Burns called the allegations
against DeBates "very serious."

Bergeron and Burns had no other details, but Radio Hong Kong reported that
hundreds of mainland Chinese are believed to have bribed American officials in
Hong Kong to gain entry to the United States in the past few years.

Hong Kong's Independent Commission Against Corruption said it had joined the
U.S. Justice Department in investigating allegations of corruption and abuse of
authority by an immigration agency official.

A U.S. consulate's spokesman said DeBates was being investigated along with his
Chinese-born wife, Heddy.

With more than 300 staff members, the consulate plays a key role in Washington's
intelligence analysis of events in China and in day-to-day handling of U.S.
relations with the "Greater China" area of the mainland, Taiwan, Hong Kong and
Macao.

LOAD-DATE: April 8, 1997

LANGUAGE: English

                  Copyright 1997 St. Louis Post-Dispatch, Inc.


                              418 of 457 DOCUMENTS

                       St. Louis Post-Dispatch (Missouri)

                April 9, 1997, Wednesday, FIVE STAR LIFT EDITION

MELTING POT IS ONCE AGAIN STOCKING UP

BYLINE: AP

SECTION: NEWS, Pg. 05A

LENGTH: 252 words

DATELINE: WASHINGTON


America seems to be resuming its status as an international melting pot, with
nearly one resident in every 10 having been born elsewhere.

But, while new census figures show the highest share of foreign-born residents
since the 1930s, the percentage is still lower than it was in the previous
century.

Last year, the United States had 24,557,000 residents who had been born in
another country, representing 9.3 percent of the population, according to the
Census Bureau.

That's up sharply from 4.8 percent in 1970 and the highest since the 1930 census
counted 11.6 percent foreign born.

But in 1910, 14.7 percent of the population had been born elsewhere, and the
share ranged from 13 percent to 15 percent throughout the last half of the 19th
century, Census Bureau researcher Kristin A. Hansen said.

Recent arrivals are more likely to be living in poverty, to have lower incomes
and to have higher unemployment rates than native born people, the report found.


Hansen says that is probably the same experience as past immigrants.

"I'm not surprised at large percentages of the recently arrived being in
poverty, but you can see by the data that after they've been here a while they
aren't," she said. "It takes a while to get your feet on the ground."

Indeed, foreign-born residents who have been here for a few years tend to
recover from their initial economic problems, and those who arrived in the 1970s
are nearly matching native-born residents in terms of income, the report said.

LOAD-DATE: April 9, 1997

LANGUAGE: English

                  Copyright 1997 St. Louis Post-Dispatch, Inc.


                              419 of 457 DOCUMENTS

                       St. Louis Post-Dispatch (Missouri)

                   April 13, 1997, Sunday, THREE STAR EDITION

LONGTIME IMMIGRANTS HOLD OWN IN FINANCES;
CENSUS SHOWS MANY LESS LIKELY TO BE POOR

BYLINE: 1997,; San Francisco Examiner

SECTION: NEWS, Pg. 09C

LENGTH: 408 words

DATELINE: WASHINGTON


Although immigrants start off much poorer than America's natives, the economic
gap closes dramatically over time - so much so that immigrants who arrived in
the 1970s own homes more frequently and make as much money as natives, while
those who arrived earlier are less likely to to be poor than natives, according
to a new U.S. Census Bureau report.

The report, which also compares welfare benefits received by the foreign-born
and natives, is based on data collected in March 1996.

The term "foreign-born" includes immigrants who are permanent residents,
naturalized citizens, illegal migrants and people on temporary student or work
visas.

The term "natives" includes those born in the United States or any of its
possessions, such as Puerto Rico and Guam.

The Census Bureau report estimates that about one of every 10 people living in
the United States now is foreign-born.

The greatest concentration of this population is in California, where 8 million
people, or 25 percent of the state's inhabitants, are foreign-born.

The populations of New York and Hawaii are each about 17 percent foreign-born.
Florida's is 15 percent.

Overall, the report found that:

U.S. natives have a median personal income of $ 17,835, higher than the $ 14,772
median personal income of all foreign-born lumped together. The foreign-born who
arrived between 1990 and 1996 have an even lower median personal income of $
10,875.

U.S. natives have much lower levels of poverty than the foreign-born as a group:
13 percent compared with 22 percent. But compared to natives, only slightly more
foreign-born receive cash benefits from public assistance programs: 5.8 percent
compared with 4.5 percent of natives. And only slightly more of the foreign-born
receive food stamps: 11.9 percent compared with 10.5 percent of natives.

Kristin Hansen, the author of the report released Tuesday, said that while the
data made clear that the foreign-born started off economically disadvantaged,
their status improved the longer they were here.

"The foreign-born are not a homogenous group," she said. "They cover the broad
spectrum, just as native people do."

Among those who arrived between 1990 and 1996, only 22 percent own homes.

The figure climbs to almost 42 percent for those who arrived between 1980 and
1989, to about 61 percent for those who arrived between 1970 and 1979, and to
more than 75 percent of those who arrived before 1970.

LOAD-DATE: April 13, 1997

LANGUAGE: English

                  Copyright 1997 St. Louis Post-Dispatch, Inc.


                              420 of 457 DOCUMENTS

                       St. Louis Post-Dispatch (Missouri)

                 May 7, 1997, Wednesday, FIVE STAR LIFT EDITION

IN MEXICO, CLINTON EASES TENSIONS;
2 LEADERS PLEDGE CLOSER COOPERATION ON DRUGS, MIGRANTS

BYLINE: AP

SECTION: NEWS, Pg. 1A

LENGTH: 740 words

DATELINE: MEXICO CITY


Presidents Bill Clinton and Ernesto Zedillo pledged closer cooperation Tuesday
between the United States and Mexico on immigration and drug fighting.

Clinton and Zedillo signed a declaration committing their nations for the first
time to devise a joint strategy for combating drugs. In Mexico, drug trafficking
is blamed for the killings of more than 200 police officers and 25
assassinations.

The leaders also signed an immigration document designed to improve management
of their 2,000-mile border with new checkpoints and bridges and new efforts "to
work together on migrant trafficking, protecting the rights of migrants and
removing criminal aliens."

Clinton said the United States would enforce a new, tougher immigration law but
added, "We must balance control with common sense and compassion."

Modest in scope, the two accords were designed to ease U.S.-Mexican tensions,
which had reached their worst point in years. Zedillo welcomed Clinton as "a
good friend to Mexico" and said the two had stabilized relations so that they
are "based on respect, friendship and reciprocal benefits."

In a gesture of respect to Mexico, which often feels slighted by its giant
neighbor, Clinton placed a wreath at one of the country's most sacred sites,
popularly known as the Child Heroes Monument. It honors six young cadets killed
in 1847 as the U.S. Army conquered Mexico City.

Earlier, at a welcoming ceremony on a parade lawn, military honor guards on
horseback rode past Clinton and Zedillo, flashing their swords in salute. The
presidents concluded the ceremony by shaking hands with flag-waving children,
who tumbled over a rope line in excitement to reach out to them.

Relations between the United States and Mexico are often rocky. But they
plummeted this year in the aftermath of tough new U.S. immigration laws and
Congress' failed attempt to decertify Mexico as an ally in the drug war.

Many in Congress became skeptical of Mexico's intentions after the discovery in
February that its anti-drug director was on the payroll of a major Mexican drug
trafficker. Moreover, anger over illegal immigration prompted adoption of
California's Proposition 187, which would deny benefits to illegal aliens.

Zedillo repeatedly thanked Clinton for showing respect to Mexico. "It is true
that on both sides of our border, there are voices which prefer to turn a deaf
ear than to hold an open dialogue," Zedillo said. "They prefer recrimination
rather than constructive cooperation."

Often ignored during the Cold War, Mexico has moved toward the top of the United
States' economic and national security agenda because of its drug problem and
its emergence as America's third-largest trading partner. To underscore Mexico's
importance, Clinton sent eight Cabinet secretaries and the leader of the U.S.
drug fight to Mexico to work on a range of problems, including trade and the
environment.

Clinton and Zedillo used the occasion to answer criticism of the North American
Free Trade Agreement, approved in 1993 over stiff opposition from organized
labor. Since then, U.S.-Mexican trade has increased 60 percent and now totals
almost $ 150 billion.

"There are some people still who assert in the United States that it has not
(worked), but it has," Clinton declared.

The drug agreement gives Zedillo's and Clinton's cabinets until year's end to
complete a common drug strategy on 16 specific objectives, including a crackdown
on money laundering, negotiations on an extradition agreement and further
cooperation to stem the flow of illegal firearms ac ross the border.

In a concession to Mexico, Clinton acknowledged that Mexico's drug scourge is
fueled by America's insatiable demand for drugs. "Let's be frank here among
friends," he said, adding that the United States has less than 5 percent of the
world's population but consumes about half the illegal drugs.

Clinton and Zedillo agreed "to do whatever necessary" to protect Mexican and
American drug agents - although they did not specifically address the Mexican
ban on guns for some U.S. drug enforcement agents. U.S. officials said they
believe Mexico will enforce the ban loosely.

Addressing both presidents, Attorney General Janet Reno tried to ease Mexico's
concerns about a tough new U.S. immigration law that makes it easier for
authorities to deport illegal immigrants. The law will be implemented "in a way
that is fair and humane," she said.

LOAD-DATE: May 8, 1997

LANGUAGE: English

GRAPHIC: PHOTO, Photo from AP - President Bill Clinton and Hillary Rodham
Clinton greet Mexican President Ernesto Zedillo at a military ceremony in Mexico
City.

                  Copyright 1997 St. Louis Post-Dispatch, Inc.


                              421 of 457 DOCUMENTS

                       St. Louis Post-Dispatch (Missouri)

                 May 8, 1997, Thursday, FIVE STAR LIFT EDITION

BORDERING ON FRIENDSHIP

SECTION: EDITORIAL, Pg. 06B

LENGTH: 659 words


For the first time since Jimmy Carter in 1979, an American president has made an
official state visit to Mexico. President Bill Clinton even placed a wreath at
one of Mexico's most sacred shrines: the monument to the Ninos Heroes, or boy
heroes, who sacrificed their lives rather than surrender to the United States in
1847 during the U.S.-Mexican war. The Ninos Heroes are a powerful symbol of
Mexico's eternal dilemma - how to maintain independence in the shadow of the
United States - and Mr. Clinton was smart to acknowledge it.

The U.S. relationship with Mexico is unlike any other the United States has.
There's probably no other country in the world with which the United States has
so many bilateral issues. Drugs, immigration and trade may top this year's list,
but they don't exhaust it. Because Mexico's stability has been a constant U.S.
priority, its recent political and economic upheavals are also of utmost
concern.

The special nature of the U.S.-Mexican relationship rests not just in the range
of common issues. A laundry list of issues, no matter how long, remains a
laundry list. Unlike Canada, issues with Mexico are perceived primarily in the
United States as domestic issues. That gives them both a relevance and an edge
that most foreign policy issues lack.

Currently, the most urgent item on the bilateral agenda is drugs. The United
States is rightly concerned that the Mexican drug cartels have penetrated deep
into Mexico's law-enforcement and justice systems and corrupted the system. This
not only makes interdiction more difficult but puts U.S. agents in Mexico at
risk. (The 1985 murder of U.S. agent Enrique Camarena, with the complicity of
Mexican police, has not been forgotten.)

For its part, Mexico believes that the United States points its fingers
everywhere but at the heart of the problem: Americans' voracious appetite for
drugs, which indeed has led to our own growing problems with corruption.

The agreement on drugs reached by Mr. Clinton and Mexican President Ernesto
Zedillo essentially tried to mend fences between the two countries. Mr. Clinton
acknowledged publicly the Mexican view and stressed that respect for Mexican
sovereignty would not be compromised in the fight against drugs. That soothed a
Mexico still smarting from the vicious battle over certification in the U.S.
Congress. In anticipation of the meeting with Mr. Clinton, Mexico did pursue
some reform: It has cleaned house in its drug agency in a rather thoroughgoing
process that has led to fewer than half of its agents being reinstated.

Some specifics were left unresolved. Mr. Zedillo refused to change Mexico's
official policy against U.S. drug agents carrying arms, but it's widely believed
that they will carry on as usual - armed.

Both presidents pledged cooperation on the second issue, migration, but it's
likely to be more symbolic than effective. Mr. Clinton talks approvingly of free
trade and economic globalization, but he is less enthusiastic about one of the
inevitable consequences of internationalization: the movement of labor. Mexicans
come to the United States for the same reason Turks went to Germany, Moroccans
go to France and Tunisians go to Italy - to work.

As long as Mexico cannot employ its citizens in decent jobs and as long as the
United States needs low-wage labor, especially in agriculture, Mexicans will
cross the border. Migration can be regulated only around the edges. If both
presidents are sincere about wanting to stem migration, they must make sure that
Mexico's free-market economic reforms are tempered by high levels of social
investment.

Despite the lack of any groundbreaking agreements, Mr. Clinton's visit to Mexico
was both necessary and successful. U.S.-Mexican relations have soured
considerably, and repair work was definitely in order. Our 2,000-mile border
means that issues between the two countries will never disappear, but the
animosity must.

LOAD-DATE: May 8, 1997

LANGUAGE: English

GRAPHIC: PHOTO, Graphic illustration - President Ernesto Zedillo

                  Copyright 1997 St. Louis Post-Dispatch, Inc.


                              422 of 457 DOCUMENTS

                       St. Louis Post-Dispatch (Missouri)

                    May 11, 1997, Sunday, THREE STAR EDITION

FREED HAMAS FIGURE REMAINS RESOLUTE

BYLINE: John Donnelly; Knight-Ridder Newspapers

SECTION: NEWS, Pg. 09A

LENGTH: 483 words

DATELINE: AMMAN, JORDAN


In his rented villa in Amman, the former leader of Hamas seems serene. After 22
months in a U.S. jail, Mousa Mohammed Abu Marzook is a free man in Jordan.

Between welcoming a steady flow of well wishers, Abu Marzook, 46, calmly said in
an interview last week that his time in jail had done nothing to dissuade him
from continuing his fight against Israel.

"We don't consider what the Palestinians do now as violence," he said when asked
about Hamas bombings. "We consider it as resistance to the Israeli occupation."

Abu Marzook had been held in the United States because Israel wanted to
extradite him on terrorism charges. When Israel dropped its request earlier this
year, mainly out of fear of violent reprisals from Hamas, that opened the way
for Abu Marzook's deportation.

But in negotiations with other nations on taking Abu Marzook - Jordan, Egypt and
the United Arab Emirates discussed the matter - U.S. officials failed to
restrict his movements and activities once deported, documents show.

In a U.S. immigration court agreement released last week to two American
reporters in Amman, the Immigration and Naturalization Service agreed not to
"attempt to curtail in any way (Abu Marzook's) rights in any other nation."

For his part, Abu Marzook handed over his green card, said he wouldn't sue the
U.S. government and agreed never to set foot in the United States again.

He claimed that U.S. intelligence officials had tried to prevent him from
traveling to countries on the U.S. list of nations that sponsor terrorism -
Syria, Iran, Sudan and Libya. But he said he can travel wherever he wishes. "I
am a free man."

Freed Last Monday

Only last Monday, immigration and military officials flew with Abu Marzook on a
private Boeing 727 from New York to Amman. Before he left New York, Abu Marzook
said, U.S. officials took his Yemeni passport, drivers license and checkbook. He
now carries only Egyptian travel documents, he said.

Hamas, the major Palestinian resistance movement that has been responsible for a
series of terror attacks in Israel, operates a political and fund-raising office
in Amman. In the West Bank and Gaza Strip, Hamas runs schools, medical clinics
and social services while also working politically and militarily against
Israel.

U.S. immigration investigators say the case against Abu Marzook included bank
statements that showed the transfer of hundreds of thousands of dollars to a
Palestinian-American serving a jail sentence for delivering money to Hamas'
military wing.

But he and his visitors last week focused on what they called the United States'
injustice in the case. "It's still a question why they kept him two years," said
Adbul Latif Arabiyat, a Jordanian senator and former head of the Islamic Action
Front. "I think they did it because of pressure from the Jews. They hurt the
image of the United States."

LOAD-DATE: May 12, 1997

LANGUAGE: English

                  Copyright 1997 St. Louis Post-Dispatch, Inc.


                              423 of 457 DOCUMENTS

                       St. Louis Post-Dispatch (Missouri)

                    May 11, 1997, Sunday, THREE STAR EDITION

TEST FOR PROSPECTIVE CITIZENS VARIES WIDELY BETWEEN STATES

BYLINE: AP

SECTION: NEWS, Pg. 05A

LENGTH: 600 words

DATELINE: WASHINGTON


On the test given her when she applied for U.S. citizenship in Maryland, Yolanda
Bolanos had to answer three questions about the U.S. government and write the
sentence, "How is the day today?"

In Virginia, Marina Sanchez had to come up with correct answers for seven of 10
questions on a written civics test and read aloud a sentence in English.

In California, Juan Noguera faced 10 questions including ones few native U.S.
citizens could answer, including: "How many amendments are there to the
Constitution?" (The answer is 27.)

On two of the most dreaded requirements for immigrants seeking citizenship,
English proficiency and knowledge of American civics, testing varies state to
state, city to city, even examiner to examiner.

"It's the luck of the draw," says Blossom Chen, a teacher who helps immigrants
in Los Angeles.

The government's fuzzy test guidelines are getting more attention at a time when
the number of citizenship applications is increasing in response to the new
welfare law and a crackdown on illegal immigrants. An estimated 1.8 million
people will apply for citizenship this year, up from 300,000 in 1992.

Struggling to keep up, the Immigration and Naturalization Service has hired a
consulting firm to do a $ 4.3 million review of the naturalization process from
application to oath - the third such study in three years.

Immigrant advocates and experts say qualified applicants sometimes fail because
their accents are too heavy for the examiner to understand, an examiner simply
has had a bad day or because they can't answer obscure questions such as "What
is the Ninth Amendment?"

(It states that individual rights are not limited to those explicitly named in
the constitution.)

Yin-Man Che recently sat down with an immigration officer in Los Angeles who
quizzed him about matters on his application such as the Constitution, polygamy,
allegiance, drugs and the armed forces.

"I replied, but the examiner just stared at me," recalled the 68-year-old
retired Chinese cook. "The examiner looked at me in a blank way and said
'goodbye.' So I said 'goodbye' back and left."

He will have to be retested.

Chen suspects the INS examiner was put off by Chen's heavy accent and his
sometimes dogmatic manner of speaking.

The variance in testing was highlighted in a report last year by the Center for
Equal Opportunity, a research center in Washington.

Twenty of 33 INS district offices gave oral civics tests, two gave written
exams, eight did it both ways and three said their test format var ies, the
center found. Results also varied widely on the numbers of questions asked and
the percentages of right answers required to pass.

Walter Schmidt, an INS adjudications officer in Houston, said the law does not
specify how many questions to be asked, but he said the official flexibility
tends to benefit the applicants.

Giving only written tests, or standardizing them in some other way, could work
against immigrants from countries that do not have western styles of education,
he said.

"I had a friend who was asked the significance of the Ninth Amendment," an INS
official said. "The person, who had two master's degrees earned in the United
States, ran out in tears."

The law also doesn't set an English-language standard.

"There was not one office or examiner that had the same philosophy as the next,"
according to a 1995 report by the Center for Applied Linguistics in Sarasota,
Fla. "One examiner said, 'It is not my goal to deny them.' Another said, 'You
have to be very vigilant, or they'll all cheat.' "

LOAD-DATE: May 12, 1997

LANGUAGE: English

                  Copyright 1997 St. Louis Post-Dispatch, Inc.


                              424 of 457 DOCUMENTS

                       St. Louis Post-Dispatch (Missouri)

                    May 11, 1997, Sunday, THREE STAR EDITION

UNREADABLE FINGERPRINTS SNARL WOMAN'S EFFORTS TO GAIN U.S. CITIZENSHIP

BYLINE: 1997,; Seattle Times

SECTION: NEWS, Pg. 06C

LENGTH: 500 words

DATELINE: SEATTLE


Pushp Grover's application for U.S. citizenship has been rejected because of her
fingerprints.

It's not that they reveal a previous life of crime in her native India.  It's
that they are too close-grained for the Immigration and Naturalization Service
to read.

The immigration service says it needs the prints for its files. The FBI, which
examines the prints, says Grover's are unreadable despite repeated attempts in
the past year.

Grover, 53, who has lived in the United States for 27 years, has become
frustrated with the process.

"I passed my test. I passed my interview. I took the oath, and I was told I'd
get the citizenship, but I didn't get it because of my fingerprints," said
Grover.

Grover is one of a small fraction of immigrants that the immigration service
says are denied citizenship because of their fingerprints.

The immigration service will relent a bit this month and allow those with
fingerprints deemed unreadable to still gain citizenship if they can prove they
have had a clean police record for the past five years.

That would not appear to be a big problem for Grover and other law-abiding
immigrants.

Immigrants must live in the United States at least five years before applying
for citizenship, so they would need to contact police agencies only in the
places they have lived in the United States. Cost for copying the needed
documents should be minimal, local authorities said.

But Grover is skeptical. She learned of the new policy only recently when told
of it by a reporter. The immigration service, she said, had told her nothing
about it.

And the new policy allows that route only if people already have had their
fingerprints checked and rejected two times and then have been told to get the
police check.

"I'm not optimistic about it at all," Grover said. "So far, everything they've
told me hasn't happened. They've always kept us in the dark."

Grover's fingertips, upon close inspection, clearly have ridges. The ridges are
just very fine and, according to the immigration service, have an "insufficient
pattern area."

Abnormal fingerprint development, which is rare, typically happens early in a
person's life, says dermatologist Julie Francis of Bellevue, Wash.

"We have fingerprints due to the development of our sweat glands in our
fingerpads early in life. If someone has abnormal sweat glands, which can occur,
they might not have clear fingerprints," she said.

After she decided that she wanted to become a citizen last year, Grover, a
customer-service representative at an insurance company in Seattle, signed up
for a 10-week citizenship class at Edmonds Community College. She submitted her
fingerprints to the FBI.

But a week before her swearing-in ceremony, she received a letter saying her
fingerprints had been rejected. During the next nine months, she submitted her
prints nine more times - each time costing $ 15.

"It was so frustrating, because each time, I had to take time off work," Grover
said.

LOAD-DATE: May 11, 1997

LANGUAGE: English

                  Copyright 1997 St. Louis Post-Dispatch, Inc.


                              425 of 457 DOCUMENTS

                       St. Louis Post-Dispatch (Missouri)

                  May 23, 1997, Friday, FIVE STAR LIFT EDITION

BORDER SHOOTING PROMPTS OUTCRY;
RIGHTS ADVOCATES LOOK AT USE OF ARMED FORCES

BYLINE: AP

SECTION: NEWS, Pg. 06A

LENGTH: 302 words

DATELINE: MARFA, TEXAS


Immigration advocates are questioning the use of U.S. military personnel to
fight drug trafficking along the Mexican border after a Marine shot a high
school student - who the Marines said was firing on them.

Suzan Kern, coordinator of the Border Rights Coalition in El Paso, Texas, said
allowing the armed services to guard the border was a "poorly conceived public
policy. They're not local, they're not trained as Border Patrol agents, and they
probably don't know the field very well. You're asking for more and more
bloodshed."

Lisa Navarrete, a spokeswoman for the National Council of La Raza, a Hispanic
group, said: "It has been a creeping militarization of the border without much
strategy or accountability or public debate. Having a military presence on a
peaceful border is not the image we want to have."

The Texas Rangers were investigating the shooting, and border activities by
military personnel in the area 200 miles southeast of El Paso were suspended
after the slaying of the high school student from Redford, Texas.

Ezequiel Hernandez Jr., 18, was shot Tuesday after opening fire on four Marines
who were watching a suspected drug-trafficking route, the Border Patrol said.

Hernandez fired twice and was getting ready to fire a third time when a
noncommissioned officer leading the team shot him in the chest, said Marine Col.
Thomas Kelly.

He added, "We don't shoot to kill. We shoot to defend. And that's what they were
doing - defending themselves."

But relatives said Hernandez was just walking with his goats in search of better
grazing about a half-mile away from the family's home - and sometimes would
target-shoot.

"We never had any complaints about him," said his sister, Gregoria Saenz. "He'd
never get into any trouble. He was not capable of this."

LOAD-DATE: May 23, 1997

LANGUAGE: English

                  Copyright 1997 St. Louis Post-Dispatch, Inc.


                              426 of 457 DOCUMENTS

                       St. Louis Post-Dispatch (Missouri)

                  May 26, 1997, Monday, FIVE STAR LIFT EDITION

MAGAZINE REACHES BOSNIANS, CROATS HERE

BYLINE: William Flannery; Of The Post-Dispatch Staff

SECTION: BUSINESS PLUS, Pg. 12

LENGTH: 420 words


In the 19th century, St. Louis had dozens of foreign-language publications for
newly arrived immigrants. Now the number can be counted on one hand.

But for the first time in years, a foreign language magazine is being published
for St. Louis' newest wave of immigrants, the Bosnians and Croats.

It's called Plima.

"Plima means ocean tide," said Dijana Groth, editor and publisher. Groth came to
America when she was 16. She is Croatian, but she is from Bosnia.

"In the old former Yugoslavia, there is the (Adriatic Sea) coast." Groth said.
"The tide will rise and then go down and it will take everything that's dirty on
the beach out to sea and the sand is clean and even."

"This magazine is really a labor of love and I'm emotionally attached to it. I
don't expect to make any money for while," Groth said. "I'm very attached to my
people and I'm very saddened by what has happened there."

Except for a few ads in English, Plima is written in Bosnian.

"It's a fairly neutral language. The language in the former Yugoslavia is
basically understood by everyone (both Bosnians and Croats); only one word out
of 100 is slightly different," Groth said.

Plima is bimonthly with a circulation of 5,000 and is distributed in St. Louis,
but it is also sold in New York, Chicago, Phoenix, California and Florida.

Groth has a clear editorial vision.

"First of all, the magazine is non-political, non-religious and
non-nationalistic. We want the people to get away from all of that," she said.

Groth sees her publication as having two critical but contradictory roles. On
one hand, many of the articles are designed to help the new immigrants
assimilate into American culture. But other articles are designed to keep the
Bosnian and Croat languages and cultures alive.

Among the articles on life in America are ones on child safety, how to obtain
health care, how to buy a home and get a loan, and explaining American holidays.

"For example, John Larsen is a workers' comp lawyer, and he wrote an article on
what sorts of rights you have if you get hurt on the job," Groth said. "He wrote
it in English and we had it translated by a Canadian lawyer who speaks both
languages."

Other pages are on gardening, computers, sports and there is a children's page.

Through the magazine, Groth tries to keep her native language and culture alive,
particularly for young readers, including her two sons.

"I work real hard to keep my language and teach my sons as well," she said.

LOAD-DATE: May 26, 1997

LANGUAGE: English

GRAPHIC: PHOTO, Color photo by Laurie Skrivan/Post-Dispatch - LEFT: From left:
Plima editor and publisher Dijana Groth, music editor Elvis Travancic and editor
and sports reporter Bruno Mruckovski.

                  Copyright 1997 St. Louis Post-Dispatch, Inc.


                              427 of 457 DOCUMENTS

                       St. Louis Post-Dispatch (Missouri)

                  May 26, 1997, Monday, FIVE STAR LIFT EDITION

FINDING THEIR ST. LOUIS NICHE;
BOSNIANS, CROATS FIND HELP IN ESTABLISHING A COMMUNITY

BYLINE: William Flannery; Of the Post-Dispatch Staff

SECTION: BUSINESS PLUS, Pg. 12

LENGTH: 1129 words


They come to St. Louis bearing the scars of war, many of them not speaking
English.

But Bosnian and Croatian immigrants here are finding jobs and fitting into the
American economy - partly because some St. Louis businesses and other employers
have gone out of their way to help the newcomers adapt.

Tessa Greenspan, owner of the Sappington Farmers Markets on Gravois and Watson
roads, views her business with the local Bosnians and Croats almost as a
community service.

"Many of these people have lost everything - home, family members, country. By
providing their traditional foods, it gives a bit of their homeland back to
them," Greenspan said.

Local business owners are serving their own interests, too, when they find ways
to serve these new immigrants.

Anna Crosslin, the director of the International Institute, which settles new
refugees in St. Louis, said more than 3,000 Bosnian and Croatian immigrants have
arrived here since 1993.

"What's interesting is that the St. Louis population has grown to the
second-largest site for Bosnian and Croatians in the United States," Crosslin
said.

Several food merchants have become major magnets for Bosnian and Croat shoppers.
The Mondovics Bakery at 3659 Minnesota Avenue is one such shop.

John and Maria Mondovics are Hungarian immigrants who have owned the 70-year-old
bakery for 20 years. They are the fourth owners. They have seen their weekend
business jump by better than 25 percent because of bread sales to the Bosnian
and Croatian immigrants

"We call it Hungarian bread. Or, sometimes I put the sign out and just say
'European Bread,' because we have lots of European customers. We have
Hungarians, Germans, Czechs, Romanians," said Maria Mondovics. "It's a hard,
crusty white bread. . . . Hungarian bread has no sugar, no shortening, no milk
powder, no preservatives. It's just a pure bread - flour, yeast, salt, water -
the purest bread in the world."

On Saturdays, Mondovics said the bakery sells about 600 loaves of Hungarian
bread. With German ryes and other breads, it sells 800 loaves. This in addition
to cakes, cookies, pies and pastries.

Two blocks to the west at 3401 Winnebago Avenue is Lindy's Meats & Sausage.

"The former owner did a lot of word-of-mouth (advertising). But I decided to go
one step up and do a little bit of print advertising," said Frank Koziacki,
Lindy's owner.

"And we started getting a lot of people from outlying areas - Manchester,
Chesterfield, Ladue . . . a lot of West County," Koziacki said. "And then
business expanded from there by word-of-mouth among the Bosnians, Croatians,
Poles."

Then Koziacki took out a display ad in Plima, the local Bosnian-language
magazine, which drew in even more Bosnians and Croats.

For many of the Bosnians, who are often Muslim, Koziacki makes different types
of beef sausages and smoked meats. Croatians will eat both beef and pork.

"We make beef bacon and a beef sausage in a lamb casing for the (Bosnians)
because they don't eat pork," Koziacki said.

The store is open only on Thursdays, Fridays and Saturdays, because Koziacki and
his staff are processing and smoking the meats during the first part of the
week.

Greenspan, of the Sappington Farmers Markets, said she expanded into Bosnian and
Croat foods almost by accident.

"We have had a lot of ethnic foods - Hispanic, Asian, Russian. But I didn't have
a contact for Bosnian and Croatian foods until Dijana Groth (the publisher of
Plima) gave me a New York distributor," Greenspan said. "I didn't know anything
about the type of foods, so I had them send out a mixed pallet of canned goods
and jars. I was sold out within a week. We are now on our third pallet."

Some firms have a long history of dealing with Bosnian and Croatian immigrants,
like Standard Travel Service Inc., at 5865 Hampton Avenue, which has been
handling the travel needs of new immigrants from Central and Eastern Europe for
decades.

"In the old days, we would have people in the New York office meet new
immigrants at the boat, hand them a box lunch and put them on the train to St.
Louis," said Michael Weidhaas, Standard's president. The firm was established in
1912.

In his travel business, Weidhaas has built up repeat trade with Croats, Bosnians
and other immigrants the old-fashioned way: by providing services , often on an
emergency basis, when a family member dies or is taken sick in the old country.

Weidhaas also provides other services.

"For example, if they have a bill of sale for a car being transferred, they need
to get it notarized. Guess what, I'm a notary public," Weidhaas said.

Southern Commercial Bank found its niche serving the Bosnian and Croatian
immigrants more recently.

"Sometimes you just get lucky. We've hired a couple of young Bosnian women as
tellers. And they have told their friends; it's been strictly word-of-mouth,"
said Byron W. Moser, vice president of Southern Commercial at 5515 South Grand
Boulevard.

Moser said language was a major barrier at first.

"But having just a couple of tellers on our staff has really helped," Moser
said. "We have taken one of tellers, Jasna Ajanovic, and we are training her for
our installment loan department."

Southern Commercial has issued some 300 car loans to Bosnian immigrants, Moser
said. "We have not had one missed payment."

Moser is impressed with his Bosnian customers. "They are very industrious. If I
were in production, I would want these guys on my payroll."

"They understand dollars and cents real well. They are very tight with their
money," Moser said. "They are very aggressive on their payments. They don't want
a five-year car loan. They will buy a moderately priced used car and pay it off
in two years.

"We are getting into home loans for (the Bosnians)," Moser said. "We are getting
into a niche market here, because there are a lot of lenders who do not want to
be bothered with a $ 20,000 or $ 30,000 home loan."

William A. Roewe Sr. is another businessman who is impressed with the work ethic
of the Bosnians. Roewe is president of Missouri Pipe Fittings Co., which
produces threaded steel, brass and plastic pipes at 400 Withers Avenue in north
St. Louis.

"We have been fortunate to obtain them. When we hired the first ones we found
them to be hard-working, dedicated people," Roewe said. "One led to two and then
the others had friends."

Roewe said he didn't have to go out and seek new Bosnian employees; it's all
word-of-mouth.

Roewe's son, William, added that while many had no machining background, they
were educated and all were quick learners.

"It's based on the record of the previous man you hired," the senior Roewe said.
"If he has done a good job, you to tend to give the next one a chance."

LOAD-DATE: May 26, 1997

LANGUAGE: English

GRAPHIC: PHOTO, (1) Color photo by Laurie Skrivan/Post-Dispatch - RIGHT: John
Mondivics, co-owner of Mondivics Bakery, bakes hundreds of loaves for his
immigrant customers.
 (2) Color photo by Jerry Naunheim, Jr./Post-Dispatch - BELOW: The Aisle of
Foods for Bosnian and Croats at the Sappington Farmer's Market on Watson Road.
 (3) Color photo by Laurie Skrivan/Post-Dispatch - Lindy's Meat & Sausange
(Sausage) cashier Jackie Vietor checks out Metod Nekic (left), who came to
America 35 years ago.
 (4) Color photo by Laurie Skrivan/Post-Dispatch - Franck Koziacki, owner of
Lindy's Meat & Sausages, where people from different ethnic backgrounds shop.
 (5) Color photo by William Flannery/Post-Dispatch - Missouri Pin Fittings Co.
has hired a number of Bosnians as machinists, including David Bilic (left) and
Muhamed Hadziselimovic.
 (6) Color photo by Ted Dargan/Post-Dispatch - These workers at Southern
Commercial help immigrants with loans: (From left) Tony Pelizzaro, Sabina
Kusauran, Steve Hrdlicka, Jasna Ajanovic and Dan Ryan.

                  Copyright 1997 St. Louis Post-Dispatch, Inc.


                              428 of 457 DOCUMENTS

                       St. Louis Post-Dispatch (Missouri)

                    June 6, 1997, Friday, THREE STAR EDITION

POLICE LINK RAIDS, ILLEGAL IMMIGRATION;
SEVEN CHARGE WITH PROSTITUTION AT MASSAGE PARLORS IN COLLINSVILLE

BYLINE: Margaret Gillerman; And Robert Goodrich

SECTION: NEWS, Pg. 01A

LENGTH: 630 words


Investigators say they suspect that seven women arrested this week on
prostitution charges in Collinsville might be part of an immigration scheme in
which they enter into sham marriages with Americans to get into the United
States.

The women, whom police say are from Korea, were arrested in simultaneous raids
Tuesday night at two massage parlors - the Seasons Spa at 9500 Collinsville Road
and the Far East Health Spa at 907 North Bluff Road in the Collinsville Business
Center.

"Obviously it's an organized group," said Maj. Ed Delmore, assistant
Collinsville police chief. "We have to find out where they're coming from."

He said the women hadn't cooperated with police. He said the clubs had changed
ownership several times and that police were unsure who owned the clubs now. He
said the clubs changed hands often.

Delmore noted that most of the woman had Western surnames. Some gave the massage
parlors as their residential addresses; others gave home addresses in
Clarksville, Tenn.; Goodlettsville, Tenn.; and Colorado Springs, Colo.

Delmore said it's possible American servicemen get paid to marry Korean women
who want to emigrate, and then the men divorce or desert them, leaving them with
no source of financial support. Once here, the women have to work for a time as
prostitutes.

"What we hear happens is that someone in Korea or whatever country arranges for
the women to be married to these guys, and then the military person is paid a
fee for doing it," Delmore said. "Then, in order to pay back the person who
arranged it, the women get involved in prostitution."

Law enforcement officials have said that organized crime runs a
multimillion-dollar prostitution network extending from South Korea to the
United States.

Two years ago, federal officials told USA Today that an increasing number of
Korean women working in the United States on a "national prostitution circuit"
could be traced to one source: sham marriages to U.S. soldiers.

Authorities are trying to determine if the women arrested in Collinsville may
have been coerced into prostitution. They're also curious why so many of the
women have identification as U.S. military dependents.

Such dependents are civilians who may be spouses or children of military
personnel. They are eligible to live on military bases. One of the women had a
Department of Defense car sticker that allows access to Fort Campbell, Ky.

Operators of the Collinsville clubs were unavailable for comment Thursday.
"Ma'am, I don't know about anything, no owners are here, and I can't talk," said
a woman who answered the phone at the Far East Health Spa.

Collinsville police have asked federal authorities to help them investigate who
might be behind the alleged prostitution ring that police believe uses Oriental
"health spas" as a front.

Police arrested three women on charges of keeping houses of prostitution and
four on prostitution charges. Charged with prostitution at the Seasons Spa was
Suyong Yi Owens, 40, who said she lived at the spa. Pak Kwiok Barber, 46, and Mi
Ok Anderson, 40, were charged with keeping a place of prostitution.

Charged with prostitution at Far East were Kyong Suk Ayotte, 36, Young Ok
Conners, 43, and Chol Sim Taylor, 44. Charged with keeping a place of
prostitution was Young Ja Kim, 61.

All the charges are misdemeanors.

The women were released on $ 100 bonds, which were paid by the operators of the
Asiana Club, a bar in Collinsville, police said.

Police also seized about $ 1,700 from the Seasons Spa and $ 3,000 at Far East.
Police are reviewing credit card receipts for names.

Although the women arrested are from Korea, police do not believe the problem is
the language barrier. "Most of them can speak English," Delmore said.

LOAD-DATE: June 7, 1997

LANGUAGE: English

                  Copyright 1997 St. Louis Post-Dispatch, Inc.


                              429 of 457 DOCUMENTS

                       St. Louis Post-Dispatch (Missouri)

                  June 8, 1997, Sunday, FIVE STAR LIFT EDITION

OLDER IMMIGRANTS STRUGGLE WITH DESPAIR;
FACING LOSS OF THEIR WELFARE BENEFITS, MANY ARE CHOOSING SUICIDE

BYLINE: 1997,; Knight-Ridder Newspapers

SECTION: NEWS, Pg. 11C

LENGTH: 1109 words

DATELINE: LOS ANGELES


At least seven elderly immigrants have taken their own lives in recent months
after hearing from the government this spring that their monthly welfare checks
would stop at summer's end.

The stories of three of them, in brief:

*  Ignacio Munoz, 75, told friends he would rather die than volunteer names of
employers who had hired him when he was young and illegal. On March 17, the
retired farm worker climbed down in lonely gulch in California's Central Valley
and shot himself in the head.

*  In Wisconsin, Chue Tou Vang, 83, a Hmong refugee from Laos who had been
recruited by the CIA along with other men in his mountain tribe to fight a
guerrilla war against the communists, was notified that his Supplementary
Security Income had been cut off. He grew so upset he could not talk, eat or
sleep. His son said all his father did was sit and cry.

On April 3, the elder Vang waited until his children had left for work and his
grandchildren were off to school. Then, though the Hmong believe that suicide
condemns the soul to wander this world forever, he went into his barn and hanged
himself. His wife found him three hours later. Because she speaks no English,
she waited for her grandchildren to call police.

*  In Miami, Alfredo Linares, 56, a refugee from Cuba, wondered whether he would
be turned onto the street. Blind from a hereditary degenerative disease, he
shared an apartment with his brother. On April 5, he downed three bottles of
pills prescribed for his AIDS while his brother napped on the sofa.

Many more have attempted suicide, and social workers around the country say they
are overwhelmed trying to cope with despondent immigrants contemplating suicide.

In Miami, five Cubans have killed themselves since last August. One rolled his
wheelchair to the edge of a seven-story building and jumped soon after the
welfare package passed Congress. Another suffering from cancer tied a plastic
bag over her head after she repeatedly failed citizenship tests. Two men shot
themselves.

At Miami's Little Havana Activities and Nutrition Center, which serves elderly
Cuban immigrants, so many residents have threatened suicide that the center now
runs seven therapy groups for depressed senior citizens.

In San Francisco, lawyers for the Asian Law Caucus have undergone suicide
training and have resorted to committing some elderly clients to mental
institutions after they described spots where they planned to jump off the
Golden Gate Bridge. In Wisconsin, Asian widows have attended county commission
meetings and threatened to kill themselves in public.

"It's not just one or two," said Shwaw Vang, head of the Hmong Refugee Committee
in Madison, Wis. "It's a whole generation talking of committing suicide."

All of this, some say, stems from welfare reform, under rules that would strip
SSI benefits from 500,000 aged and disabled legal immigrants unless they become
U.S. citizens or can prove they have paid into Social Security for the
equivalent of 10 years. The final number is expected to be lower due to
proposals to restore benefits.

Originally the benefits were due to expire in August. But facing a public
relations fiasco in the face of one pathetic case after another, Congress has
voted to extend benefits through September.

Not everyone is expected to have full benefits restored. While negotiations
continue, advocates say every meeting to discuss changes degenerates into
weeping by hundreds of frail and vulnerable people.

"Welfare reform policy has become euthanasia for older immigrants," said
Josefina Carbonell, executive director of the Little Havana Activities and
Nutrition Center, where two sisters in their 80s recently walked in looking for
someone to notarize their written suicide pact.

Ignacio Munoz's friends called him Nacho. Since 1950, when he sneaked across the
border, he had made a living working on the farmland around Stockton, Calif. In
his youth, he bragged, he could jump five or six furrows at a time with an
armful of irrigation pipes. After four decades of this work he suffered from
arthritis, cataracts and weak knees.

Amnesty made him a legal resident a decade ago. But despite 40 years of seasonal
work, on the books he could only account for 32 quarter-years of work, eight
quarters shy of eligibility.

He grew at times taciturn and obsessively preoccupied after a form letter
notified him his $ 412.40 monthly SSI check was in jeopardy. He paced in the
laundry room and talked in a whisper. He said he feared his dilemma could
ensnare his former employers in problems with the government.

"They're trying to take away my check," he told neighbor Juan Venegas, pressing
his fingers to his lips. "Don't say anything. I don't want to embarrass my
bosses."

Rosalio Estrada, the apartment manager, assured Munoz he would drop his $ 184
rent to $ 60 if he lost benefits. Still, three times a day Munoz came to
Estrada's office making the same, plaintive appeal: "What am I going to do?"

At the local Council for the Spanish Speaking, social worker Susan Casillas
contacted former employers who promised to vouch that he had worked for them off
the books, that it was not his fault his Social Security taxes had not been
paid. Munoz balked.

"He was concerned that if he named employers they would get in trouble," said
neighbor Alberto Gregorio. "They gave him work when he was young, and he felt he
would dishonor them. He just couldn't do it. He said it was better to kill
himself."

Munoz had saved $ 1,000 to visit a brother in Mexico. He withdrew it from the
office safe a few days before neighbor Javier Navarro saw him slipping out the
building's back door looking pensive.

He was found bleeding in a gully, a .38-caliber slug in his right temple, $
717.40 in his money belt. The rest of the $ 1,000 went to buy the Colt revolver
they found in his hand.

Mayors and governors, when they looked at the numbers projected for the reform,
saw a nightmare in the making. They knew it would be particularly bad in states
that are home to most immigrants - California, Texas, New York, Florida and
Illinois. In Los Angeles, for example, 130,000 legal immigrants stood to lose
welfare support.

Even conservative Republican mayors urged federal officials to reconsider and
restore benefits to the aged and disabled.

Social workers say the aged immigrants are especially vulnerable because it is
difficult for them to learn English and memorize enough civics and history to
pass citizenship tests. That doesn't stop them from trying; citizenship classes
are filled with elderly students who see it as a protection for their benefits.

LOAD-DATE: June 9, 1997

LANGUAGE: English

                  Copyright 1997 St. Louis Post-Dispatch, Inc.


                              430 of 457 DOCUMENTS

                       St. Louis Post-Dispatch (Missouri)

                 June 16, 1997, Monday, FIVE STAR LIFT EDITION

IMMIGRANT CHILDREN SAID TO PREFER ENGLISH

BYLINE: 1997,; Los Angeles Times

SECTION: NEWS, Pg. 04A

LENGTH: 498 words

DATELINE: LOS ANGELES


A five-year study of the educational progress of 2,400 children of immigrants in
San Diego says they quickly embraced English over their parents' native tongues
- contrary to the fears of anti-immigration groups.

The study, part of the largest long-range survey of immigrant offspring in the
United States, also reports that these youths had better grades and lower
dropout rates than fellow public school students whose parents were born in the
United States.

But the study also reported stark disparities in ambition among various
immigrant groups.

The study is part of a massive effort by researchers from Michigan State and
Princeton universities to follow 5,000 children in San Diego and Miami, two
centers of immigrant settlement. It focused on "the new second generation" in
the belief that these youths, more than their parents, hold the answers to hotly
contested questions about the long-term effects of immigration, such as: Will
English lose dominance? Do immigrant children drag down test scores?

"Some immigrant groups and their children are doing well and seem poised to join
the middle-class mainstream - if they are not there already," said Michigan
State sociologist Ruben G. Rumbaut, who coordinated the project in the San Diego
Unified School District.

But others risk "joining downtrodden native groups in the inner cities," he
said, a possibility that lends urgency to efforts to understand the prospects of
8 million immigrant youths nationwide.

Anti-immigration groups, in attacking the study's hopeful findings, said much
evidence showed that immigrants of the last two decades had not been good for
America. "What they have found is in direct contradiction to what other studies
have found . . . that children of less educated immigrants tend not to do well
in school," said Ira Mehlman of the Federation for American Immigration Reform
in Los Angeles.

San Diego Unified, with 133,000 students, is the eighth-largest school district
in the nation.

The students in the study, all of whom had at least one foreign-born parent,
represented more than 60 nationalities.

Analyzing data on grade-point averages, Rumbaut found that the children of
immigrants were not driving down achievement but outperforming the district as a
whole. For example, 29 percent of all ninth-graders had GPAs higher than 3.0,
contrasted to 44 percent of immigrant children. In the 12th grade, 46 percent of
all students had a 3.0 or better, while 50 percent of immigrant children
performed that well.

Numerous studies have found that Latino students are more likely to drop out
than others. In San Diego Unified, they have a 26.5 percent dropout rate over
the four years of high school. But when Rumbaut isolated Latino immigrant
children, he found a different story: Only 8.5 percent dropped out.

Rumbaut also asked youths what they called themselves - just American, for
example, or hyphenated American? Only 3 percent chose the plain American
identity.

LOAD-DATE: June 17, 1997

LANGUAGE: English

                  Copyright 1997 St. Louis Post-Dispatch, Inc.


                              431 of 457 DOCUMENTS

                       St. Louis Post-Dispatch (Missouri)

                June 25, 1997, Wednesday, FIVE STAR LIFT EDITION

U.S. JUDGE BLOCKS DEPORTATION OF 40,000;
IMMIGRANTS FLED LATIN AMERICA DURING UNREST

BYLINE: AP

SECTION: NEWS, Pg. 04A

LENGTH: 442 words

DATELINE: MIAMI


A federal judge on Tuesday blocked government efforts to deport as many as
40,000 Nicaraguans and other Latin Americans who were allowed to enter the
United States in the 1980s because of civil wars in their homelands.

U.S. District Judge James Lawrence King cited numerous instances where
deportation would cause severe hardship for families with special medical needs
or with children born here who are U.S. citizens.

"Seldom if ever has such a dramatic, heart-rending and powerfully persuasive
case of irreparable harm to literally tens of thousands of human beings been
presented to this federal court," King wrote in his order.

The judge issued a preliminary injunction and set a trial for Jan. 5.

Nicaraguan President Arnoldo Aleman met Tuesday with Attorney General Janet Reno
to discuss the deportation issue. Earlier, in meetings with members of Congress,
Aleman said that with unemployment in his country running about 50 percent,
Nicaragua could not absorb the sudden influx of 40,000 deportees.

Aleman thanked top U.S. officials for the aid the United States provided during
the 1980s to anti-communist rebels.

"If the Nicaraguan people have a virtue, it is that they are grateful," Aleman
said at a Washington news conference. "I am a man of faith. I was sure that love
would triumph over hate in Nicaragua."

In Miami, Nicaraguans who had been living in fear of deportation gathered in the
streets to celebrate.

"This is a start. The first battle is won," said Manuel Rivera, 31, a Nicaraguan
who was among six of his countrymen who had been on a hunger strike in Miami's
Little Havana.

Most of those affected by the ruling fled civil war in Nicaragua in the 1980s,
when the United States backed the Contras against the leftist Sandinistas.

President Ronald Reagan's administration created a special status for Nicaraguan
immigrants, allowing them to work and pay taxes even though their immigration
status remained unresolved.

The majority of the 40,000 live in South Florida. The ruling also affec ts an
undetermined number of Salvadoran, Guatemalan and other refugees in Florida,
Georgia and Alabama who were allowed to stay under the special status.

In Washington, Carol Florman, a Justice Department spokeswoman, said the
decision was being reviewed. She said there was no time frame for a decision on
whether to appeal.

Brian Jordan, a spokesman for the Immigration and Naturalization Service, said
his agency "will continue to abide by its longstanding policy of no mass
deportations. If we do appeal the case, people will start thinking deportations
will run amok - and that's simply not true."

LOAD-DATE: June 25, 1997

LANGUAGE: English

GRAPHIC: PHOTO, Photo From AP - Manuel Rivera, a Nicaraguan demonstrator, is
carried to a hospital Tuesday in Miami. He ended a hunger strike last week.

                  Copyright 1997 St. Louis Post-Dispatch, Inc.


                              432 of 457 DOCUMENTS

                       St. Louis Post-Dispatch (Missouri)

                   June 29, 1997, Sunday, THREE STAR EDITION

IMMIGRATION SERVICE ADDING NEW OFFICES IN 12 FOREIGN COUNTRIES

SECTION: NEWS, Pg. 1C

LENGTH: 142 words

DATELINE: WASHINGTON


The U.S. Immigration Service will soon open 13 new offices in Europe, Asia,
Africa and Latin America to curb organized illegal trafficking in people wishing
to reach the United States, the agency said.

Doris Meissner, commissioner of the Immigration and Naturalization Service, said
recently that she also was adding 45 officers to give the agency new
capabilities abroad to launch criminal investigations and analyze intelligence.

"This gives us an important new tool to help stem the flow of migrant t
rafficking at its very source," she said in a statement.

INS offices will be opened in Accra, Ghana; Copenhagen, Denmark; Johannesburg,
South Africa; Beijing and Guangzhou, China; Tokyo; San Salvador, El Salvador;
Guatemala City, Guatemala; Kingston, Jamaica; Lima, Peru; Panama City, Panama;
Port-au-Prince, Haiti; and Quito, Ecuador.

LOAD-DATE: June 30, 1997

LANGUAGE: English

                  Copyright 1997 St. Louis Post-Dispatch, Inc.


                              433 of 457 DOCUMENTS

                       St. Louis Post-Dispatch (Missouri)

                July 26, 1997, Saturday, FIVE STAR LIFT EDITION

MORE DEAF MEXICANS FOUND IN NEW RAID

BYLINE: Compiled From News Services

SECTION: NEWS, Pg. 18

LENGTH: 371 words

DATELINE: SANFORD, N.C.


* The North Carolina operation was similar to one in New York City in which 57
Mexicans were kept in virtual slavery while selling trinkets.

Immigration agents raided two houses Friday to break up a ring similar to one in
New York City that kept 57 deaf Mexicans in virtual slavery, making them sell
trinkets, authorities said.

Fourteen deaf adults and three children were taken into custody. No immediate
charges were filed.

Russ Parry, an Immigration and Naturalization Service supervisory special agent,
said the North Carolina raid stemmed from information the agency obtained while
investigating the New York case.

Authorities in North Carolina were tipped off by a woman who fled and contacted
the Mexican Consulate in Detroit, said Teodoro Maus, Mexico's consul general in
Atlanta.

Maus said he believed that the New York and North Carolina operations were
related. But the Justice Department said it was still trying to determine that.

"They didn't have complaints of beatings, but they were being held captive and
were forced to work and to turn over the money and to bring in a minimum of
money every day," Maus said.

Neighbors said the Mexicans peddled trinkets on streets and outside supermarkets
in this town of 21,000. But at the end of each day, their earnings were taken
from them by their bosses, authorities said.

After the discovery of the New York City operation last weekend, the Immigration
and Naturalization Service established a task force to investigate tips.

Seven Mexicans face charges including smuggling and extortion in the New York
City case. Authorities said the ringleader, identified as Reinaldo Paoletti, was
still at large.

Mexican consular officials also reported finding six deaf and mute Mexican
vendors in Chicago. But an official with the Mexican Consulate in Chicago said
those workers reported they were being treated adequately.

"According to what they say, they are working without any problems," said Juan
Jose Salgado, deputy consul general. "They are not mistreated. The place is
acceptable. It's not the best. They buy food. They cook there. Apparently, it's
not so bad."

Salgado said his office was working with Chicago police to investigate.

LOAD-DATE: July 28, 1997

LANGUAGE: English

                  Copyright 1997 St. Louis Post-Dispatch, Inc.


                              434 of 457 DOCUMENTS

                       St. Louis Post-Dispatch (Missouri)

                 July 27, 1997, Sunday, FIVE STAR LIFT EDITION

IMMIGRANTS HERE BATTLE RED TAPE IN HEALTH CARE;
OFFICIAL SAYS SYSTEM 'CAN BE FRIGHTENING' TO NEWCOMERS

BYLINE: William Allen; Of The Post-Dispatch Staff

SECTION: NEWS, Pg. 01C

LENGTH: 1360 words


ADNAN BURGIC and his tonsils were from Bosnia. Barbara Bogomolov and her heart
were from St. Louis.

Adnan, 4, arrived here in April with his mother, father and brother. His parents
were examined one Saturday at a health screening for refugees and immigrants at
Barnes-Jewish Hospital.

Bogomolov, a nurse who directs the hospital's New American Program, discovered
the mother was exhausted from worrying about her son. The boy flashed a smile at
the nurse and she immediately saw his dangerously swollen tonsils.

"We were stunned," Bogomolov said in an interview last week. "We'd never seen
tonsils that bad."

What happened next illustrates the many barriers that immigrants and refugees
face in getting health care in the St. Louis region, including lan guage and
cultural differences, financial problems and an encounter with a system
overflowing with red tape.

Adnan's tonsils had swelled to the point that they sometimes blocked his air
passage - while sleeping he sometimes stopped breathing for up to a half-minute
at a time. His condition was so serious that his mother sat next to his bedside
through the night, nudging him when he stopped breathing.

He had difficulty swallowing. He was losing weight, subsisting only on ice cream
and soda. He vomited often.

Bogomolov called the boy's primary care physician the following Monday to report
the problem. The doctor saw the boy that Tuesday and scheduled surgery for
Wednesday at another hospital in the St. Louis area. (Bogomolov declined to name
the hospital.)

But the night before the operation, officials at the hospital discovered that
the boy did not yet have a card proving he was covered by Medicaid, even though
he was.

They canceled the operation.

Bogomolov arranged for the procedure at St. Louis Children's Hospital. A few
days later, with interpreter Alma Ajanovic in the operating room to ease the
boy's fears, the tonsils were removed.

"He sleeps better than I do now," said his father, Ismet Burgic, speaking
through Ajanovic. "He's eating well now and gaining weight."

A Frightening System

Stories like Adnan's are repeated frequently these days within the St.  Louis
region's health care system. As immigrants and refugees from Bosnia, Iraq,
Russia, Vietnam, Mexico and elsewhere trickle into the area, programs aimed at
helping them get health care have been launched or expanded.

New immigrants and refugees in the St. Louis region number about 80,000. An
additional 20,000 are expected by the turn of the century.

Despite the growth of health care services aimed at new Americans, experts say
there's a need for more programs, more awareness and better communication within
the health care system. Access to health care by Americans new and old is one of
several concerns raised by St. Louis 2004, the Archbishop's Commission on
Community Health and other groups.

Immigrants and refugees are intimidated by the local health care system, experts
say.

"It can be frightening to these people," said Gail Rogers, who helped establish
Amigos de Familias, a health service for Hispanics in St. Louis. "That's not to
say it isn't also frightening to longtime Americans, but being in another
country and not fluent in English makes it more so."

Amigos de Familias, run by South Side Catholic Community Services, began about
two years ago and helps about 1,400 people a year. Staff nurses and others offer
health screenings, referrals and support groups run in cooperation with several
agencies.

The Vietnamese Health Center, a program of the Archbishop's Commission on
Community Health and Catholic Community Services, recently moved to offices at
Lutheran Medical Center in St. Louis.

With the help of volunteer nurses and doctors, the center conducts health
screenings each Thursday afternoon and evening and refers patients to an
appropriate clinic, hospital or primary care physician. The center has helped
more than 1,000 Vietnamese immigrants over the past two years.

The New American Program at Barnes-Jewish has helped more than 1,000 immigrants
and refugees a month get treatment.

"The needs are so great," said Sister Inez Thai, director of the center. "I
wouldn't dare to say it's sufficient right now. We try to do our best, but the
people need help."

Barriers to Care

Even after the trauma of leaving their home country, refugees and immigrants run
an emotional gantlet here as they try to cope with a wide range of problems,
from finding a job to taking the necessary steps to become a U.S. citizen.

To obtain adequate health care, they must get around several barriers, experts
say. Among them:

Language. For instance, when an immigrant who doesn't speak English goes to an
emergency room, he can't understand doctors and nurses, and they can't
understand him. This can be especially stressful on an immigrant child who might
speak a little English and who is used by the family as an interpreter.

* Cultural beliefs. Mainstream American notions of health, illness and
appropriate medical care can vary radically from those of other cultures.

* Finances. Many immigrants start their lives in this country poor and jobless.
Their employers often don't provide health insurance, nor can workers often
afford to buy their own. Coverage under federal and state health insurance
programs is temporary at best, and often confusing.

The differences in cultural beliefs are among the most unusual.

For example, if an immigrant family values traditional healing methods from the
home country, the patient may be inclined to ignore the full course of
medication prescribed by a U.S. doctor.

Sister Thai described the case of a Vietnamese woman who gave birth at a local
hospital. When nurses tried to get her to drink juice before a special blood
test, she refused. According to her cultural norms, such drinks just after birth
are unhealthy.

After Thai arrived at the hospital and explained the situation - to both the
frustrated nurses and confused patient - the woman agreed to drink the juice.

"For many people this would be a trivial thing, but it's not," Thai said.

In some cultures, the kind of doctor and the doctor's demeanor can be crucial.
In Iraq, for instance, a woman usually insists on being examined by a female
doctor, and men by male doctors. Kurds fleeing Saddam Hussein's persecution in
Iraq have sometimes refused treatment here from a physician of the opposite sex.

Such clashes can add stress on the patient and aggravate the health problem. And
foreign-born patients sometimes run into people in the health care system who
just don't like immigrants.

"That's very intimidating to people," Rogers said. "It marks them out as
different and makes them feel like the outsider.

"But who among us didn't come from an immigrant family, unless you happen to be
a Native American?"

Solutions

Despite being made up of many people who care, the various elements of the
health care system often fail to communicate, Bogomolov said.

The result can be a case like Adnan Burgic.

By law, from the day he arrived in the United States Burgic was covered for four
months by Medicaid, the government health insurance for the poor. But the
computer system used by the first hospital to check his status did not yet show
it.

"The system for refugee Medicaid is so dysfunctional that it shouldn't be called
a system," Bogomolov said. "It's so convoluted, so confusing, so flooded with
local, state and federal government policies, that no one honestly knows how to
help the patient."

Among possible solutions under study are new efforts to hire bilingual people
into the health care system and an areawide interpreters bank.

Interpreters who serve as patient advocates are the most important tool right
now, Bogomolov and other experts said.

Interpreters, usually former refugees themselves, serve as language and cultural
bridges for patients. They help the newcomers navigate through the system - from
making a routine doctor's appointment to holding the hand of a refugee child
about to have an anesthesia mask placed over his face for the first time.

LOAD-DATE: July 28, 1997

LANGUAGE: English

GRAPHIC: PHOTO, (1) Color Photo by Wendi Fitzgerald/Post-Dispatch - The New
American Program at Barnes-Jewish Hospital helped Bosnian immigrant Adnan
Burgic, 4, get surgery he needed to breathe. His tonsils had swollen so much
that they sometimes blocked his airway.
 (2) Photo by Wendi Fitzgerald/Post-Dispatch - Adnan sits on the lap of his
father, Ismet Burgioc, at the New American Program at Barnes-Jewish Hospital.
The program helps immigrants like the Burgics get medical care.

                  Copyright 1997 St. Louis Post-Dispatch, Inc.


                              435 of 457 DOCUMENTS

                       St. Louis Post-Dispatch (Missouri)

                 September 7, 1997, Sunday, THREE STAR EDITION

16 RESIDENTS SUE CITY IN IMMIGRANT ROUNDUP;
U.S. CITIZENS SAY THEY WERE HARASSED IN ARIZONA

BYLINE: 1997,; Los Angeles Times

SECTION: NEWS, Pg. 12A

LENGTH: 410 words

DATELINE: CHANDLER, ARIZ.


On a recent morning, while driving home from the store, Catalina Veloz was
pulled over by a Chandler police officer who had a question. In Spanish, he
asked, "Got your papers?"

The query puzzled the security guard and lifelong Arizona resident, 35.

"I said, 'I've got toilet paper, writing paper and newspaper - what kind do you
want?' " she recalled. "He said, 'No, your immigration papers.' "

The officer and his companion, a Border Patrol agent, threatened to deport Veloz
until she convinced them, in forceful English, that "I was born here!"

Later the same day, a Border Patrol agent on a bicycle followed her into a
parking lot near her home and asked, "Where's your papers?"

"What the hell did you ask me?" she responded indignantly. "I was born here! I
went to school here! I raised four kids here! Do I have to tattoo the words
'U.S. Citizen' on my forehead?"

Veloz is among 16 residents of Chandler who filed a $ 35 million class-action
suit accusing the city of civil rights violations during a five-day roundup of
432 undocumented workers in late July.

Adding to the outrage, local authorities conceded that the crackdown targeted a
downtown redevelopment area anchored by small businesses catering to Hispanics.

Arizona Attorney General Grant Woods has launched an investigation of the sweep,
the largest ever in the boomtown of 165,000 people - 19 percent of whom are
Hispanic - just south of Phoenix. The investigation aims to determine whether
some residents were harassed or treated unfairly on the basis of their national
origin, ethnicity or skin color.

"We have to get to the bottom of what went on there and make sure that if people
were stopped because of the color of their skin, it never happens again in
Arizona or the United States," Woods said. "In my state . . . to be Hispanic is
to be part of our state's heritage."

Still, complaints are increasing now that federal authorities are teaming up
with local police and sheriff's deputies in immigration sweeps. Recent
operations have been conducted in Denver; Tucson, Ariz.; Flagstaff, Ariz.; and
Little Rock, Ark.

Last September, police officers and federal agents in Jackson Hole, Wyo.,
rounded up 150 legal and illegal Hispanic workers, inked numbers on their arms
and hauled them off to jail in patrol cars and a dirty horse trailer.

In January, a similar sweep in Crescent City, Fla., spawned a suit alleging
violations of search-and-seizure laws.

LOAD-DATE: September 8, 1997

LANGUAGE: English

                  Copyright 1997 St. Louis Post-Dispatch, Inc.


                              436 of 457 DOCUMENTS

                       St. Louis Post-Dispatch (Missouri)

                 September 7, 1997, Sunday, THREE STAR EDITION

INVESTIGATION CENTERS ON CITIZENSHIP TEST PROGRAM;
COMPLAINTS SITE CHEATING, OVERCHARGING IN HOUSTON

BYLINE: AP

SECTION: NEWS, Pg. 22A

LENGTH: 415 words

DATELINE: WASHINGTON


Just months after closing down one national citizenship test program, the
government is investigating another amid questions about whether immigrants were
overcharged and allowed to cheat.

The director of the program, based at Houston Community Colle ge-Southeast, was
reassigned. College officials received complaints that he may have improperly
directed business to his wife and failed to adequately oversee the school's
coast-to-coast network of 60 test operators to prevent fraud.

An internal audit at the college is under way.

Sandra Vega, acting director of the Houston program, said: "We're trying to
eliminate the carpetbaggers, people who only want the money and leave a burning
trail of dissatisfied clients - the applicants for naturalization."

It is the second time in a year that problems have surfaced under an Immigration
and Naturalization Service program that allows five outside organizations to
administer the history and English exams that are requirements for American
citizenship.

These government-approved programs will deal with roughly 20 percent of the 1.8
million immigrants who will test to become Americans this year.

In January, the immigration service closed a testing network based in Florida
after cheating was uncovered at some of its 400 exam sites. Now, interviews and
documents obtained by The Associated Press indicate problems in the Houston
program.

Greg Gourley, a Houston Community College test operator in Redmond, Wash., said
that in January he saw a tester in Seattle fill out answers for immigrants
taking a college-issued test.

One of the would-be citizens said he paid $ 165 - more than five times the
normal fee - to have someone complete the test for him, Gourley said.

Until recently, the Houston program was directed by Paul Metzger Jr.  Metzger
denied wrongdoing. He said he did not know that some test operators he approved
for the college's program had been suspended for improprieties by the Florida
firm shut down by Immigration.

Metzger said he terminated three test operators for cheating or charging
excessive fees and suspended at least three more but never could prove
allegations against others.

He said he referred business to several of the college's test operators and
sometimes chose a company run by Alice DaSilva, his wife, to administer exams in
problem situations because it was one "I could depend on to do it right."

Last month, DaSilva sold her interest in the test business.

LOAD-DATE: September 8, 1997

LANGUAGE: English

GRAPHIC: PHOTO, Photo from AP - Sylvia Ramos (left), president of Houston
Community College-Southeast, and Sandra Vega, who want to end citizenship
program problems.

                  Copyright 1997 St. Louis Post-Dispatch, Inc.


                              437 of 457 DOCUMENTS

                       St. Louis Post-Dispatch (Missouri)

             September 24, 1997, Wednesday, FIVE STAR LIFT EDITION

AMERICA: A NATION OF EPITHETS

BYLINE: Consuelo Hubbuch

SECTION: EDITORIAL, Pg. 07B, COMMENTARY COLUMN

LENGTH: 597 words


Even before politically correct language became the accepted method of
communication, Americans displayed their obsession with defining and labeling
everyone. As a nation of immigrants, we developed into a nation of epithets.

Myself, I'm an American mutt. My paternal great-grandparents came to America
from Ireland, my maternal relatives escaped the war-loving Prussians of 19th
century Germany and, supposedly, a great-grandmother was a Native American
Indian. So how did I, someone without any connection to Spanish or Italian
heritage, get the name Consuelo?

I was born in Columbia. Columbia, Missouri. That particular joke wore off in the
fourth grade. Actually, my mother read a book when she was pregnant, and someone
named Consuelo was referred to in the book. Since then, I've been a walking
social experiment.

Teachers asked if I needed to have directions read to me. Classmates asked,
"What are you?" People commented how inappropriate it was to have ethnically
diverse first and last names. Even my gender was questioned. I was told that
masculine names end in "o" and feminine names end in "a." (I guess I'm getting
in touch with my masculine side.)

The stereotypes didn't end there. I've been labeled a foreign exchange student.
People assume I'm adopted. Once when cashing a check at a bank, the teller said,
"This check can't possibly be yours; you aren't dark." To this day I don't know
if she was accusing me of forgery or bleaching myself.

My favorite appellation was bestowed on me by a substitute teacher. I will
forever be remembered as the girl in third period named "Consomme." (I'm glad my
mother didn't have a soup fetish; my brother could have been named
"Bouillabaisse.")

My experience left me with several questions. Is nationalism part of th e naming
process? Do ethnic groups possess ownership of names? What role does parental
responsibility play in the naming process?

I don't believe my mother was irresponsible by naming me Consuelo. I can't
imagine being named anything else. My mother didn't have anything against
"American" names. She considered naming me Holly. Holly Hubbuch? Does that name
sound as nauseatingly sweet to you as it does to me?

People feel justified commenting on my name because I don't fit into a
prescribed societal mold. I don't pass myself off as Spanish, Hispanic, Latina
or Italian, so what's the problem? In my opinion, a name is community property.
Local, state and federal government recognize me for who I say I am. That should
be cause for celebration. What people name their children is about the only area
of our lives without government involvement.

To live with racial generalizations is a disservice. To like or dislike a
particular group because of its supposed traits is ridiculous. The only reason
to like or dislike a person is because of that individual person's character -
the type of person he or she is.

Maybe I wasn't paying attention, but I was under the impression that people came
to this country for freedom and to escape the confines of conformity. We can
learn a lot from other cultures - cultures different from our own and culturally
diverse Americans.

Whenever I've been a victim of racially motivated remarks like "Consuelo came
north of the border," I haven't been behaving as others would like me to behave.
That is not to say that my behavior was improper, just that I wasn't doing what
someone else wanted me to do.

In the desire to account for everyone, we've lost sight of what's important:
When do we stop becoming labels and start becoming people?

LOAD-DATE: September 25, 1997

LANGUAGE: English

GRAPHIC: PHOTO, Photo Headshot - Consuelo Hubbuch

                  Copyright 1997 St. Louis Post-Dispatch, Inc.


                              438 of 457 DOCUMENTS

                       St. Louis Post-Dispatch (Missouri)

                October 12, 1997, Sunday, FIVE STAR LIFT EDITION

BRIEFS

BYLINE: From Post-Dispatch Wire Services

SECTION: NEWS, Pg. 09A, BRIEFS/NATION/WORLD COLUMN

LENGTH: 906 words



NATION

BRUTALITY CASE

Haitian Leaves Hospital, Still Needs Care

Abner Louima, the Haitian immigrant allegedly sodomized with a plunger handle in
a police station in Brooklyn, N.Y., was released Friday night from the Brooklyn
Hospital Center where he had been a patient for two months.

Louima, 30, lost 40 pounds. He still requires round-the-clock nursing care and
has a colostomy bag. Doctors said he may have to return to the hospital for
surgery on a damaged bladder.

Four police officers have been charged in the assault.

WORLD

CHINA

Catholic Bishop Reported Arrested Again

Roman Catholic Bishop Su Zhimin, who had already spent two decades in China's
jails for refusing to renounce papal authority, was arrested again Wednesday, a
U.S.-based Catholic group said Saturday.

Su, 65, was arrested in northern Hebei province after 17 months in hiding,
according to a statement from the Stamford, Conn.-based Cardinal Kung
Foundation. The group said Su was now in custody in Baoding, about 80 miles
south of Beijing.

China's communist government has no relations with the Vatican and has long
persecuted those who claim allegiance to the pontiff.

Only officially sanctioned Catholic and Protestant churches are allowed to hold
services in China. Many Christians continue to worship illegally in underground
churches, risking prosecution.

Su, 65, has spent decades in jail and has spent long periods in hiding to avoid
arrest, the foundation said. He and other religious leaders were arrested in May
1996 when government officials destroyed a shrine to the Madonna near Baoding,
the foundation said.

SWITZERLAND

Balloonist To Attempt Round-World Flight

Swiss balloonist Bertrand Piccard and his Belgian colleague Wim Verstraeten will
make another attempt at a nonstop balloon flight around the world after their
previous attempt in January ended in failure, the Swiss news agency ATS reported
on Saturday.

The pair is waiting at the Swiss balloon center of Chateau d'Oex for the right
weather conditions to launch their new mission, they hope within the next three
months.

The two are in competition with British businessman Richard Branson and American
millionaire Steve Fosset, both of whose attempts early this year to become the
first round-the-world balloonist ended in failure.

PERSIAN GULF

Iran Holds Exercises As U.S. Carrier Nears

Iran's naval forces on launched a week of war games in the Persian Gulf Saturday
as the U.S. aircraft carrier Nimitz rushed toward the region.

Iranian military chiefs said the exercise was aimed at demonstrating the Islamic
republic's ability to stand up to "aggressive powers."

The war games began as the Nimitz, ordered to hurry to the Gulf because of
tension over the Iran-Iraq border, approached the strategic waterway with its
battle group of six warships.

RUSSIA

Protest Focuses On Homeless Children

Hundreds of angry mothers marched on the White House, the Russian parliament
building in Moscow, Saturday to demand more government spending for abandoned
children and to protest what they called a lack of official interest in the
problem.

"The government doesn't care about Russian children. They only care about other
things, like power," said one of the protesters.

Thousands of children in Russia are homeless, and many turn to crime to support
themselves.

NETHERLANDS

Suspect Freed In Killing Of Irish Reporter

Dutch police Saturday released one of two suspects arrested a day earlier in the
1996 slaying of an Irish journalist who reported on Dublin's underworld.

Dutch authorities said the other man arrested Friday in connection with the
contract-style killing of Veronica Guerin of the Dublin Sunday Independent would
be extradited to Ireland.

Guerin, 36, whose stories detailed the operations of Irish mobsters, was shot
and killed in her car in June 1996 on the outskirts of Dublin.

Irish police have raided scores of homes and law offices, interrogated dozens of
criminals and seized more than 100 illegal firearms in their investigation of
the killing.

Guerin's killing - the first of a journalist in the 75-year history of the Irish
Republic - prompted Prime Minister John Bruton's government to restrict bail
rights and grant the police greater powers to seize paperwork and property owned
by criminal suspects.

REPUBLIC OF CONGO

President Holds Airport, Reports Say

Republic of Congo President Pascal Lissouba remained in control of the airport
and the presidential palace in Brazzaville Saturday after two days of fierce
battles in the city, witnesses said.

Lissouba loyalists have been locked in a four-month power struggle with the
Cobra militia of Denis Sassou Nguesso in the capital of the oil-producing former
French colony.

CANADA

Visa Restrictions Aimed At Gypsy Influx

Canada reinstated visa restrictions on the Czech Republic in hopes of
discouraging immigration by Czech Gypsies after more than 1,200 arrived seeking
protection as refugees.

Spurred by a television documentary about Canada, the Gypsies, who call
themselves Roma, have asked for refugee status, claiming that they were beaten
up by skinheads and discriminated against by their government.

Most came in the last two months, straining social services in the Toron to area
and taxing relations between Canada and the Czech Republic.

LOAD-DATE: October 14, 1997

LANGUAGE: English

                  Copyright 1997 St. Louis Post-Dispatch, Inc.


                              439 of 457 DOCUMENTS

                       St. Louis Post-Dispatch (Missouri)

                October 27, 1997, Monday, FIVE STAR LIFT EDITION

BILINGUAL EDUCATION KEEPS IMMIGRANTS IN 'LINGUISTIC NURSERY'

BYLINE: George Will; Copyright Washington Post Writers Group

SECTION: EDITORIAL, Pg. 07B, GEORGE WILL COLUMN

LENGTH: 818 words

DATELINE: SAN FRANCISCO


The conservative case for a welcoming policy toward immigrants is that the very
act of immigrating is an act of entrepreneurship. Passive, risk-averse people do
not immigrate. So immigration leavens a successful, complacency-prone society
with a ferment for change from below.

It is, therefore, appropriate that the campaign in California to make bilingual
education voluntary, which would virtually end it, is being organized by a
conservative entrepreneur inspired by an insurrection of immigrant parents.

The spark was a boycott protesting compulsory bilingual education at an
elementary school in downtown Los Angeles.

The growing campaign will culminate next June when Californians, as is their
wont, take lawmaking into their own hands. They will vote on the initiative,
which, if passed, will emancipate immigrant children - primarily Hispanics -
from a linguistic ghetto.

A Los Angeles Times poll shows that 80 percent of white Californians and 80
percent of all Californians support it - and 84 percent of Latinos do, too. As
Ron Unz says, "There is almost no support for the existing system." Indeed, the
opposition includes most teachers - other than those involved in bilingual
education.

Unz, 36, grew up in the San Fernando Valley, studied theoretical physics at
Harvard and Cambridge, then made a lot of money in the Silicon Valley, in the
software business. His libertarian conservatism prompted him to challenge the
incumbent, Pete Wilson, in the 1994 Republican gubernatorial primary. Unz got 34
percent of the vote, but any challenger with a pulse and conservative
credentials would have done about that well, such was the hostility of
conservatives toward Wilson at that time.

Unz is more comfortable dealing with policy than politics, and he had a dandy
time looking eloquently incredulous when, in a television debate, James Lyons of
the National Association for Bilingual Education declared that "adults are much
more efficient and quicker language-learners than children."

Among the many who disagree is the honorary chairman of Unz's "English for the
Children" campaign, Jaime Escalante, the teacher whose success in teaching
advanced calculus to high school students in an East Los Angeles barrio was the
subject of the movie "Stand and Deliver."

Lyons' theory, although eccentric, serves as a rationalization for assuming that
it takes at least five to seven years for children of limited proficiency in
English to acquire proficiency. Twenty-three percent of California's pupils -
1.3 million children - are classified as limited. Most parents whose children
are assigned to bilingual education and are often taught for all but 30 minutes
a day in a language other than English believe their children are being shunted
onto a slow academic track.

Compulsory bilingual education is not simply another case of compassion that
cripples - of misguided government solicitousness that weakens the social
competence of the intended beneficiaries. Precious little real compassion enters
into this grab for government money. This is a matter of perverse incentives:
School districts get extra jobs and government payments totaling more than $ 320
million for bilingual education.

One argument against a welcoming immigration policy is this: that such a policy
was fine a century ago, but is incompatible with today's welfare state, which
acts as a magnet for persons immigrating in search of comfortable dependency.

A second argument is that in the 1990s, unlike in the 1890s, a significant
portion of the American intelligentsia does not much like America. This
portion's ambivalence about America is expressed in the ideology of
multiculturalism. It is the doctrine that a common culture is "oppressive," and
that Americans should be disaggregated into groups, each cultivating its
cultural distinctiveness, resisting assimilation in the name of "diversity."

The weakness of the first argument is that there is scant evidence of a "magnet
effect" of the welfare state. The vast majority of immigrants are motivated by a
desire to participate in, not be parasitic off of, the American economy. And
they believe that the sooner their children learn English, the better the
children will be at participating.

Regarding the second argument, the support of Latinos for Unz's initiative is a
powerful refutation of the fear that immigrants accept the "diversity" argument
by which anti-American Americans advance their agenda of Balkanization.

America has long been, in the words of the Hispanic-American writer Richard
Rodriguez, "a marinade of sounds." But as Rodriguez wrote in "Hunger of Memory,"
his brilliant meditation on language and the immigrant experience, those who are
not proficient in English risk "being lured into a linguistic nursery."

Next June Californians can empower parents to rescue their children from
confinement in that nursery.

LOAD-DATE: October 27, 1997

LANGUAGE: English

                  Copyright 1997 St. Louis Post-Dispatch, Inc.


                              440 of 457 DOCUMENTS

                       St. Louis Post-Dispatch (Missouri)

              November 26, 1997, Wednesday, FIVE STAR LIFT EDITION

GROUP SHARES TRADITIONS WITH IMMIGRANTS;
SERVING UP A THANKSGIVING TO REMEMBER

BYLINE: Yvonne Samuel; Of The Post-Dispatch

SECTION: METRO, Pg. B1

LENGTH: 344 words


More than 300 refugees and immigrants here got their first taste of Thanksgiving
on Tuesday, feasting on turkey and dressing, cranberry sauce, mashed potatoes,
peas and apple pie.

To celebrate the tradition of thankfulness and sharing, the Internatio nal
Institute of St. Louis held the dinner at its offices at 3800 Park Avenue. Each
year, the institute helps more than 3,000 people from 40 countries learn
English, find jobs or get counseling.

The dinner included people from Bosnia, Somalia, Iraq, the Middle East and
Africa.

Barbara Qureshi, a board member, said the Islamic Foundation provided 20
20-pound turkeys for the feast. "I cooked 14 of them at my house," she said.

Qureshi says she knows how much the immigrants value the meal because she did
when she was introduced to the holiday in 1973 after she emigrated from England.
"Thanksgiving was meaningful," she said.

"This is special because it shows that somebody is taking the time to care,"
Qureshi said. For some, it is the first time they tasted turkey.

Mario Mruckovski of Bosnia said he enjoyed his turkey. "It had no fat," he said.

"The first Pilgrims who came to America were helped by those already there,"
Mruckovski said. "America has helped me to live normally in this country."

He said he wanted to come to America for five years because it is a country of
freedom. His country is filled with strife and division, he said.

Mruckovski, 24, wants to be a railroad engineer.

"My father worked on the railroad, my grandfather worked on the railroad and my
great, great-grandfather worked on the railroad," he said.

"I feel happy," he said. "This is nice."

Sahara Musse of Somalia moved here in 1995 with her husband and eight children.
She says she fled her country because "I might get killed or raped."

She says she is thankful that her children are all safe and getting an
education. "I like America more than all the other nations," she said.

Haider Al-Khuzai of Iraq said, "I like peace for everybody. All the people are
happy, and that's good."

LOAD-DATE: November 26, 1997

LANGUAGE: English

GRAPHIC: PHOTO, Color Photo By JANE RUDOLPH / POST-DISPATCH - Serving up a
Thanksgiving to remember
 Sahara Musse of Somalia (left) gets a little gravy on her turkey from Bruce S.
Buckland of Ladue at a Thanksgiving dinner Tuesday at the International
Institute of St. Louis.

                  Copyright 1997 St. Louis Post-Dispatch, Inc.


                              441 of 457 DOCUMENTS

                       St. Louis Post-Dispatch (Missouri)

              November 29, 1997, Saturday, FIVE STAR LIFT EDITION

RELIGIOUS FAITH IS ALIVE AND WELL IN AMERICA, TWO NEW STUDIES SAY

BYLINE: David Briggs; The Associated Press

SECTION: RELIGION, Pg. 32

LENGTH: 459 words

DATELINE: NEW YORK


* Sociologist attributes the situation to America's "competitve... marketplace."

America not only retained its religious vitality over the last century, but the
children and grandchildren of immigrants have increasingly joined the ranks of
the faithful, two new studies indicate.

The percentage of Catholic, Jewish and unaffiliated Americans who believe in
life after death has jumped substantially from the generation born in the first
decade of the 20th century to the generation born in the 1970s, according to one
study.

Sociologist Andrew Greeley of the University of Chicago, who was involved in
both studies, told a recent meeting of the American Sociological Association in
Toronto that the vibrant "marketplace" for religion in the United States has
boosted the faith of succeeding generations of immigrant families.

"In a competitive religious marketplace like the United States," Greeley said,
"the clergy must work hard at what they are supposed to be doing: preaching a
message of hope in the face of the tragedies of life."

In the international study, Greeley and Wolfgang Jagodzinski, a sociologist from
the University of Cologne, examined findings from the 1991 International Social
Survey Program to compare data on atheism and belief in 17 countries.

What they found was a wide range of beliefs related to social attitudes toward
religion and levels of religious competition.

In East Germany, for example, where the former Communist government mounted an
effective anti-religion campaign, the percentage of people who did not believe
in God and rejected the possibility of life after death was 42 percent.

The United States, where several religious groups compete intensely for members,
had an almost negligible percentage of nonbelievers. Only 0.8 percent said they
did not believe in God or the possibility of life after death.

In the study presented to the American Sociological Association, Greeley
examined data gathered from 19,381 respondents interviewed from 1973 to 1994 in
the General Social Surveys conducted by the National Opinion Research Center at
the University of Chicago.

To get a picture of how beliefs have changed through the century, he divided the
responses by generations.

In his analysis, Greeley found no statistically significant differences in
church attendance or belief in God this century.

Where there was significant change was in belief in life after death.

About three-quarters of those surveyed born in the first decade of this century
said they believed in life after death, compared with 81 percent of those born
in the '70s.

The findings, Greeley said, represent "a shattering blow to those who think
religious belief in America is going down over time."

LOAD-DATE: December 2, 1997

LANGUAGE: English

                  Copyright 1997 St. Louis Post-Dispatch, Inc.


                              442 of 457 DOCUMENTS

                       St. Louis Post-Dispatch (Missouri)

              December 24, 1997, Wednesday, FIVE STAR LIFT EDITION

NATION

BYLINE: From News Services

SECTION: NEWS, Pg. A4, NATION BRIEFS COLUMN

LENGTH: 746 words



Clinton delays deportation of Haitians

President Bill Clinton has delayed for a year the deportation of up to 40,000
Haitians who fled to the United States while a military junta ruled their
nation. Clinton also promised Tuesday to work for the same status granted
earlier this year to Central Americans who fled civil strife in their homelands.
The Haitians had been omitted from legislation exempting hundreds of thousands
of Nicaraguan and Salvadoran refugees from deportation rules under the 1996
immigration law. The presidential authority that Clinton exercised has been
invoked rarely.

Fall leads to repair on Golden Gate Bridge

Engineers will begin work today to install two steel cables in a gap next to the
pedestrian walkway on San Francisco's Golden Gate Bridge after a 2-year-old girl
fell to her death, officials said Tuesday. "When you experience a tragedy of
this type, you don't second-guess. You go put something out there so it can't be
repeated," said Carney Campion, general manager of the Bridge District. Gauri
Govil of Fremont, Calif., was pronounced dead Sunday after slipping through a 9
1/2-inch gap from a spot near the northern end of the bridge and falling 170
feet to the ground below. The gap is designed to allow for maintenance work and
drainage and to decrease wind resistance.

U.S. will help immigrants learn their rights

The government says it will do more to make sure that immigrants - even ones who
enter the United States illegally - know their civil rights and how to register
a complaint if abused by border control officials. "We insist on proper
treatment, on humane treatment, on polite treatment of people that are coming
into the country whether their documents are correct or not," Immigration and
Naturalization Service Commissioner Doris Meissner said at a news conference
Tuesday in Washington.

Luggage checks will be stricter, FAA says

Domestic U.S. airline luggage will be subject to an increase in security checks
next year, the Federal Aviation Administration and major airlines said Tuesday.
Passenger screening techniques will be used to select those people who will be
"matched" to their bags or will have their luggage screened by an explosives
detection device. A bag will not be put aboard a plane unless its owner is on
the flight. International flights have had more stringent luggage checks for
years but heightened domestic security was recommended early this year by the
White House Commission on Aviation Safety and Security.

San Francisco moves to ban tobacco ads

San Francisco has passed a tough ordinance that would outlaw tobacco advertising
in most of the city. The Board of Supervisors on Monday unanimously banned
tobacco ads on billboards, bus shelters, sandwich boards, banners, signs and
posters visible from the street. Violators could be fined up to $ 100. The
ordinance, which still needs Mayor Willie Brown's approval, permits tobacco
advertising on vehicles and on billboards facing most highways. The goal is to
protect children, officials say.

Limit on union fund raising is put on ballot

A California initiative that would stymie organized labor's ability to raise
millions of dollars in campaign funds has been approved for next June's ballot,
California Secretary of State Bill Jones said Tuesday. The so-called Campaign
Reform Initiative would require labor unions to get written permission each year
before spending a member's dues on political causes. The measure's proponents,
three conservatives from Orange County, Calif., said they hope the initiative
will inhibit the use of union dues f or political activities.

Arizona killing is linked to drugs

A double killing blamed first on a mistake by bounty hunters and later on
robbery now is being linked with drugs, a newspaper in Phoenix reported Tuesday.
Christopher Foote and his girlfriend, Spring Wright, were killed Aug. 31 when
five masked gunmen broke into their home and exchanged gunfire with Foote. The
gunmen claimed they were bounty hunters who went to the wrong house, but
authorities later discounted the story and charged the men with murder. The
Arizona Republic, citing newly released police d ocuments, reported that Foote
had methamphetamine in his blood. Wright was drug free, according to tests. The
documents say that before the raid, one of the men charged in the killings had
asked a friend to find a drug house they could use, the paper said.

LOAD-DATE: December 26, 1997

LANGUAGE: English

GRAPHIC: PHOTO, Color Photos by the Associated Press
 (1) Doris Meissner, commissioner of the Immigration and Naturalization Service,
makes a point at a news conference Tuesday in Washington.
 (2) A visitor to the Vietnam Veterans Memorial in Washington looks at a
Christmas tree placed at the memorial Tuesday by the Vietnam Veterans Fund. The
five-foot tree is covered with remembrance cards.

                  Copyright 1997 St. Louis Post-Dispatch, Inc.


                              443 of 457 DOCUMENTS

                       St. Louis Post-Dispatch (Missouri)

                December 24, 1997, Wednesday, THREE STAR EDITION

NATION

BYLINE: From News Services

SECTION: NEWS, Pg. A4, NATION BRIEFS COLUMN

LENGTH: 702 words



Clinton delays deportation of Haitians

President Bill Clinton has delayed for a year the deportation of up to 40,000
Haitians who fled to the United States while a military junta ruled their
nation. Clinton also promised Tuesday to work for the same status granted
earlier this year to Central Americans who fled civil strife in their homelands.
The Haitians had been omitted from legislation exempting hundreds of thousands
of Nicaraguan and Salvadoran refugees from deportation rules under the 1996
immigration law. The presidential authority that Clinton exercised has been
invoked rarely.

Fall leads to repair on Golden Gate Bridge

Engineers will begin work today to install two steel cables in a gap next to the
pedestrian walkway on San Francisco's Golden Gate Bridge after a 2-year-old girl
fell to her death, officials said Tuesday. "When you experience a tragedy of
this type, you don't second-guess. You go put something out there so it can't be
repeated," said Carney Campion, general manager of the Bridge District. Gauri
Govil of Fremont, Calif., was pronounced dead Sunday after slipping through a 9
1/2-inch gap from a spot near the northern end of the bridge and falling 170
feet to the ground below. The gap is designed to allow for maintenance work and
drainage and to decrease wind resistance.

U.S. will help immigrants learn their rights

The government says it will do more to make sure that immigrants - even ones who
enter the United States illegally - know their civil rights and how to register
a complaint if abused by border control officials. "We insist on proper
treatment, on humane treatment, on polite treatment of people that are coming
into the country whether their documents are correct or not," Immigration and
Naturalization Service Commissioner Doris Meissner said at a news conference
Tuesday in Washington. Human rights groups have compiled reports of beatings,
shootings, rapes and even deaths that allegedly have occurred at the hands of
Border Patrol agents.

Luggage checks will be stricter, FAA says

Domestic U.S. airline luggage will be subject to an increase in security checks
next year, the Federal Aviation Administration and major airlines said Tuesday.
Passenger screening techniques will be used to select those people who will be
"matched" to their bags or will have their luggage screened by an explosives
detection device. A bag will not be put aboard a plane unless its owner is on
the flight. International flights have had more stringent luggage checks for
years but heightened domestic security was recommended early this year by the
White House Commission on Aviation Safety and Security.

San Francisco moves to ban tobacco ads

San Francisco has passed a tough ordinance that would outlaw tobacco advertising
in most of the city. The Board of Supervisors on Monday unanimously banned
tobacco ads on billboards, bus shelters, sandwich boards, banners, signs and
posters visible from the street. Violators could be fined up to $ 100. The
ordinance, which still needs Mayor Willie Brown's approval, permits tobacco
advertising on vehicles and on billboards facing most highways. The goal is to
protect children, officials say.

Diplomat predicts OK on warming treaty

Some members of Congress are refusing to consider global warming, but Congress
eventually will approve the landmark agreement to reduce fuel emissions,
Undersecretary of State Timothy Wirth said Tuesday. "I mean, there are a number
of people on the Hill who are in significant denial about the issue of climate
overall," Wirth said. And so are their constituents, the former Colorado senator
said. Wirth spoke at a farewell news conference as he prepares to head broadcast
executive Ted Turner's $ 1 billion foundation to assist the United Nations.

Tree is a memorial to Vietnam veterans

Thousands of memorial cards decorated a small Christmas tree in front of the
Vietnam Veterans Memorial Tuesday to remember the men and women who served in
the war. Nestled in the center of the V-shaped black granite wall, the tree was
bedecked with salutations collected by the Vietnam Veterans Memorial Fund over
the past six weeks.

LOAD-DATE: December 26, 1997

LANGUAGE: English

GRAPHIC: PHOTO, Color Photos by THE ASSOCIATED PRESS
 (1) Doris Meissner, commissioner of the Immigration and Naturalization Service,
makes a point at a news conference Tuesday in Washington.
 (2) THE ASSOCIATED PRESS - A visitor to the Vietnam Veterans Memorial in
Washington looks at a Christmas tree placed at the memorial Tuesday by the
Vietnam Veterans Fund. The five-foot tree is covered with remembrance cards.

                  Copyright 1997 St. Louis Post-Dispatch, Inc.


                              444 of 457 DOCUMENTS

                       St. Louis Post-Dispatch (Missouri)

                  May 3, 1998, Sunday, FIVE STAR LIFT EDITION

'MEANEST MAN' PICKS ON ELDERLY IMMIGRANTS

BYLINE: Molly Ivins; Copyright Creators Syndicate Inc.

SECTION: EDITORIAL, Pg. B3, MOLLY IVINS COLUMN

LENGTH: 354 words

DATELINE: AUSTIN, TEXAS


Sen. Phil Gramm, R-Texas, has been trying hard for the title of Meanest Man in
the United States and now just may have earned it.

Gramm is blocking legislation that would restore food stamps for elderly legal
immigrants, one of the nastiest parts of welfare deform.

This harsh and unseemly provision has provoked widespread criticism and is
causing elderly legal immigrants to flock to overburdened food banks. There was
widespread bipartisan agreement that the provision had to go - 71 senators are
pushing Majority Leader Trent Lott for a vote on it - but Gramm is
singlehandedly holding it up.

You may think that this action alone earns Gramm the Meanest Man title, but what
really puts him in contention is his rationale for cutting off food stamps to
old, poor, legal immigrants. Follow this carefully:

"The 1996 reform was a critically important step toward getting families out of
the welfare trap," Gramm said in an April 20 news release. "Reversing the 1996
reform would constitute a new personal tragedy inflicted on the most vulnerable
people among us."

You see? If we were to restore food stamps to sick, 85-year-old legal immigrants
who worked all their lives, it would be a new personal tragedy for them,
throwing them right back into the welfare trap instead of letting them get right
out there and compete for jobs, thus making them happier and better people. Phil
is doing this to them for their own good.

Texas has 121,000 legal immigrants who had been receiving food stamps before
they were cut off last year. Gramm said that restoring the food stamps would be
"onerous and destructive."

Gov. George Dubya Bush is finding it somewhat onerous himself since he had to
come up with $ 18 million in state money to cover disabled children and the
elderly who are sick. He supports restoring the food stamps. Restoring food
stamps nationwide for 935,000 legal immigrants would cost $ 818 million, a tiny
part of the $ 55 billion appropriation for the Department of Agriculture that
includes a proposal sponsored by Gramm to spend $ 43 million on research to
eradicate fire ants.

LOAD-DATE: May 3, 1998

LANGUAGE: English

                  Copyright 1998 St. Louis Post-Dispatch, Inc.


                              445 of 457 DOCUMENTS

                       St. Louis Post-Dispatch (Missouri)

                    May 11, 1998, Monday, THREE STAR EDITION

NATION

BYLINE: From News Services

SECTION: NEWS, Pg. A4, NATION BRIEFS COLUMN

LENGTH: 987 words



Alternative vehicles begin road rally in New York City

Undeterred by pouring rain, electric and solar-powered vehicles purred out of
New York Sunday in a road rally that will test some of the latest alternative
cars and measure their impact on the environment. From bicycles to squat
low-slung vehicles to conventional-looking cars and a mail truck, the convoy
snaked its way through Manhattan's congested streets to New Jersey on the first
leg of the "Tour de Sol" rally that will finish Thursday in Washington. Apart
from cheering spectators and honks from car horns, the vehicles made no noise.
Some of them featured solar panels that resembled large airfoils. Organizers
said the vehicles and their crews would stop in towns in New Jersey, Delaware
and Maryland on their 300-mile journey to the nation's capital.

Group wants food stamps back for legal immigrants

A prominent human rights group is urging Congress to restore food stamp benefits
to legal immigrants, citing a new study it says shows "alarmingly high" levels
of hunger among immigrants in Illinois, California and Texas. The group,
Physicians for Human Rights, which is based in Boston, released the results of
its survey last week. The group supports a recommendation for the passage of a
Senate bill that would partially restore food stamps to legal immigrants,
benefiting about 250,000 people at a cost of $ 818 million. The benefits of
about 900,000 legal immigrants were cut in August as part of a welfare-reform
law. Full restoration of food stamps to this group would cost as much as $ 3
billion, advocates estimate. The bill, dealing mainly with agricultural research
and crop insurance, has been stalled by opposition to the food stamp provision
from Sen. Phil Gramm, R-Texas, and Majority Leader Trent Lott, R-Miss.

'Seinfeld' won't be missed that much by fans, poll finds

Fans may shed some tears, but don't expect a deluge when the cast of "Seinfeld"
signs off on Thursday. A new survey by the Pew Research Center finds that only
half the people who watch the popular sitcom will miss it when it ends its run.
Of the 1,009 adults interviewed by telephone for the survey, 62 percent said
they watch the program and 14 percent named the show as their favorite. But only
19 percent said they would miss the show a great deal and 51 percent of viewers
say they would not miss the show much. Another finding of the survey was the 54
percent of viewers say they would not want friends like the sitcom characters.

Forum for governor hopefuls in California may be nasty

Like teachers who sense a schoolyard brawl brewing, the hosts of a California
gubernatorial forum have told the candidates to play nice this week at their
first - and perhaps only - debate. For weeks, Democrats Al Checchi, Lt. Gov.
Gray Davis and Rep. Jane Harman have been ravaging each other in television
commercials. There is no sign of a letup as the high-stakes forum Wednesday and
the primary June 2 approach. "There's a nastiness in the air - you'll see it at
the debate," said Harman's campaign manager, Kam Kuwata. He blames the tenor on
a barrage of aggressive ads by Checchi. In letters last week, the host, the Los
Angeles Times, urged the three Democrats and Attorney General Dan Lungren, the
likely Republican nominee, to stay positive.

NY, New Jersey lawmakers oppose island casino plan

New York and New Jersey members of Congress plan to introduce legislation this
week opposing New York Mayor Rudolph Giuliani's proposal to turn historic
Governors Island into a casino resort, The New York Times reported Sunday. The
legislators, supported by environmentalists and historic preservationists, want
the former U.S. Coast Guard station used for a public purpose such as a park, a
marina, aquarium or college campus, the newspaper said. President Bill Clinton
has promised to give the federally owned island to New York City once the city
has a suitable plan for using and maintaining it. Although no formal proposal
has been sent to the federal government, Giuliani believes that a casino is one
of the few businesses that would generate enough money needed to maintain the
island.

GOP primary race for Nebraska governor tightens up

Rep. Jon Christensen, R-Neb., a family values conservative running for governor,
has found himself in an unexpectedly tight race heading into a primary Tuesday.
An independent poll released late last week shows 33 percent of registered
Republicans supporting Christensen, with 32 percent favoring Lincoln Mayor Mike
Johanns and 20 percent for state Auditor John Breslow. Fifteen percent were
undecided. The poll has a margin of error of plus or minus 4.6 percent. First
elected to Congress in 1994 in a close race, Christensen, 35, easily won
re-election and is considered a rising star in the right wing of the party.

AFL-CIO: Opposition to California referendum is rising

John J. Sweeney, president of the AFL-CIO, said over the weekend that organized
labor's fight against a California referendum to restrict union political
activity is gaining support as key liberal allies mobilize for the vote June 2
in a way that should pay off for Democrats in November. The efforts of "the new
right, the old right, the far right and the not-quite-so-right are failing and
may well light a backfire of unbelievable, inconceivable and, quite possibly,
irretrievable dimensions," Sweeney told an enthusiastic Democratic National
Committee Saturday. The California proposal, Proposition 226 or the Campaign
Reform Initiative, is backed by Americans for Tax Reform and a number of
conservative supporters. It would require unions to get signed approval from all
individual members before their union dues are used in political campaigns.
Union leaders and their conservative adversaries believe such a restriction
would severely cripple the political strength of organized labor.

LOAD-DATE: May 11, 1998

LANGUAGE: English

GRAPHIC: PHOTO, Photo by the Associated Press - A delicate balancing act - A
member of the Shangri-La Chinese Acrobats troupe uses her feet to place four
stacked bowls on her head while balancing on her partner;s head during a
performance Saturday in Pueblo, Colo.

                  Copyright 1998 St. Louis Post-Dispatch, Inc.


                              446 of 457 DOCUMENTS

                       St. Louis Post-Dispatch (Missouri)

                  May 11, 1998, Monday, FIVE STAR LIFT EDITION

NATION

BYLINE: From News Services

SECTION: NEWS, Pg. A4, NATION BRIEFS COLUMN

LENGTH: 943 words



Alternative vehicles begin road rally in New York City

Undeterred by pouring rain, electric and solar-powered vehicles purred out of
New York Sunday in a road rally that will test some of the latest alternative
cars and measure their impact on the environment. From bicycles to squat
low-slung vehicles to conventional-looking cars and a mail truck, the convoy
snaked its way through Manhattan's congested streets to New Jersey on the first
leg of the "Tour de Sol" rally that will finish Thursday in Washington. Apart
from cheering spectators and honks from car horns, the vehicles made no noise.
Some of them featured solar panels that resembled large airfoils. Organizers
said the vehicles and their crews would stop in towns in New Jersey, Delaware
and Maryland on their 300-mile journey.

Group wants food stamps back for legal immigrants

A prominent human rights group is urging Congress to restore food stamp benefits
to legal immigrants, citing a new study it says shows "alarmingly high" levels
of hunger among immigrants in Illinois, California and Texas. The group,
Physicians for Human Rights, which is based in Boston, released the results of
its survey last week. The group supports a recommendation for the passage of a
Senate bill that would partially restore food stamps to legal immigrants,
benefiting about 250,000 people at a cost of $ 818 million. The benefits of
about 900,000 legal immigrants were cut in August as part of a welfare-reform
law. Full restoration of food stamps to this group would cost as much as $ 3
billion, advocates estimate. The bill, dealing mainly with agricultural research
and crop insurance, has been stalled by opposition to the food stamp provision
from Sen. Phil Gramm, R-Texas, and Majority Leader Trent Lott, R-Miss.

Early human ancestors walked upright, fossils show

Paleontologists have discovered new fossils in Africa that confirm that human
ancestors walked upright more than 4 million years ago. Maeve Leakey of the
National Museums of Kenya and her colleagues first discovered the remains of a
new human ancestor called Australopithecus anamensis in 1995 that they said
represented the most ancient upright-walking human ancestor. But the precise age
of the specimen remained in doubt. The researchers report in the May 7 issue of
Nature on the discovery of 38 more fossils at the same site in Kenya that date
back up to 4.2 million years.

Lewinsky and her mother hire media relations expert

Judy Smith, a media relations expert with a legal background and extensive
political experience, has been hired by Monica Lewinsky and her mother Marcia
Lewis, Lewinsky's lawyer, William Ginsburg, said Sunday. A former White House
intern, Lewinsky became a target of independent counsel Kenneth Starr after she
alleged in tape-recorded telephone conversations that she had had an affair with
President Bill Clinton. She later denied the claim. Clinton also has denied the
allegation as well as claims that he tried to cover up an intimate affair with
Lewinsky by inducing her to lie under oath.

NY, New Jersey lawmakers oppose island casino plan

New York and New Jersey members of Congress plan to introduce legislation this
week opposing New York Mayor Rudolph Giuliani's proposal to turn historic
Governors Island into a casino resort, The New York Times reported Sunday. The
legislators, supported by environmentalists and historic preservationists, want
the former U.S. Coast Guard station used for a public purpose such as a park, a
marina, aquarium or college campus, the newspaper said. President Bill Clinton
has promised to give the federally owned island to New York City once the city
has a suitable plan for using and maintaining it. Although no formal proposal
has been sent to the federal government, Giuliani believes that a casino is one
of the few businesses that would generate enough money needed to maintain the
island.

GOP primary race for Nebraska governor tightens up

Rep. Jon Christensen, R-Neb., a family values conservative running for governor,
has found himself in an unexpectedly tight race heading into a primary Tuesday.
An independent poll released late last week shows 33 percent of registered
Republicans supporting Christensen, with 32 percent favoring Lincoln Mayor Mike
Johanns and 20 percent for state Auditor John Breslow. Fifteen percent were
undecided. The poll has a margin of error of plus or minus 4.6 percentage
points. First elected to Congress in 1994 in a close race, Christensen, 35,
easily won re-election and is considered a rising star in the right wing of the
party.

AFL-CIO: Opposition to California referendum is rising

John J. Sweeney, president of the AFL-CIO, said over the weekend that organized
labor's fight against a California referendum to restrict union political
activity is gaining support as key liberal allies mobilize for the vote June 2
in a way that should pay off for Democrats in November. The efforts of "the new
right, the old right, the far right and the not-quite-so-right are failing and
may well light a backfire of unbelievable, inconceivable and, quite possibly,
irretrievable dimensions," Sweeney told an enthusiastic Democratic National
Committee Saturday. The California proposal, Proposition 226 or the Campaign
Reform Initiative, is backed by Americans for Tax Reform and a number of
conservative supporters. It would require unions to get signed approval from all
individual members before their union dues are used in political campaigns.
Union leaders believe such a restriction would severely cripple the political
strength of organized labor.

LOAD-DATE: May 11, 1998

LANGUAGE: English

GRAPHIC: PHOTO, Photo by the Associated Press - A member of the Shangri-La
Chinese Acrobats troupe uses her feet to place four stacked bowls on her head
while balancing on her partner's head during a performance Saturday in Pueblo,
Colo.

                  Copyright 1998 St. Louis Post-Dispatch, Inc.


                              447 of 457 DOCUMENTS

                       St. Louis Post-Dispatch (Missouri)

                 June 6, 1998, Saturday, FIVE STAR LIFT EDITION

CONGRESS CLEARS BILL TO RESTORE FOOD STAMPS TO LEGAL IMMIGRANTS

BYLINE: The Associated Press

SECTION: NEWS, Pg. 21

LENGTH: 310 words

DATELINE: WASHINGTON


An urban-rural coalition in Congress overcame Republican opposition to a bill
that would restore food stamps to some legal immigrants and secure crop
insurance for farmers.

Agriculture Secretary Dan Glickman said House passage of the measure Thursday
night demonstrated "a recurring theme: helping farmers, helping the hungry."

The $ 1.9 billion bill, which also would boost spending on agricultural
research, was sent to President Bill Clinton on a 364-50 House vote. All members
of the House from the St. Louis area voted for the bill except for Rep. Jim
Talent, R-Chesterfield, who did not vote. The Senate passed the bill 92-8 in
April.

White House spokesman Barry Toiv said Clinton would sign the bill.

"This bill not only supports farmers but fulfills a commitment the president
made when he signed the welfare reform law to restore the unnecessary and
mean-spirited benefit cuts for legal immigrants," Toiv said.

Conservative Republicans tried earlier in the House and Senate to derail the
bill, objecting mainly to returning food stamps to about 250,000 of the 935,000
legal immigrants who were removed from the rolls by the 1996 welfare overhaul.

It would provide $ 818 million over five years to restore food stamps to
immigrants who were in this country as of Aug. 22, 1996, and who are elderly,
under 18, disabled or came to the United States to escape political or religious
persecution.

"It's funny that we pass welfare reform and then turn around the next year and
destroy it," said an opponent, Rep. Sam Johnson, R-Texas.

But with political pressure increasing from farmers and minority groups, other
Republicans saw nothing to be gained by fighting over food stamps.

Immigrants wrote thousands of letters and urged people to sign paper plates
asking for food stamp restoration. The plates were sent to Congress.

LOAD-DATE: June 6, 1998

LANGUAGE: English

                  Copyright 1998 St. Louis Post-Dispatch, Inc.


                              448 of 457 DOCUMENTS

                       St. Louis Post-Dispatch (Missouri)

               December 19, 1999, Sunday, FIVE STAR LIFT EDITION

PETER A. FERRARA;
LAWYER, COMMUNITY LEADER

SECTION: METRO, Pg. C13

LENGTH: 310 words


Peter A. Ferrara, a longtime lawyer and leader in the Italian community, died
Wednesday (Dec. 15, 1999) at Missouri Baptist Medical Center in Town and Country
after suffering a heart attack. He was 87 and lived in Frontenac.

Since 1936, Mr. Ferrara was in private practice, specializing in immigration
law. He was a co-founder of the American Immigration Lawyers Association and a
co-founder of its St. Louis and Kansas City chapters. In the 1940s, he served in
the Missouri Legislature.

Born in Palermo, Sicily, he came to this country with his family when he was 5
years old and settled in St. Louis. He graduated from Beaumont High School and
earned a bachelor's degree and a law degree from St. Louis University.

For his contributions as a volunteer, he was honored by the Italian Club of St.
Louis and the Italian American Bar Association.

In 1993, he received the Americanism Medal from the Daughters of the American
Revolution. He also received the honorary rank of Commendatore by the Italian
government, and he was a past president and Italian vice consul of the St. Louis
Consular Corps.

Visitation will be from 2 to 8 p.m. Sunday at Kriegshauser West Mortuary, 9450
Olive Boulevard in Olivette. The funeral Mass will be celebrated at 10 a.m.
Monday at Our Lady of the Pillar Catholic Church, 401 South Lindbergh Boulevard,
Creve Coeur. Burial will be in Calvary Cemetery.

He was married for 49 years to Mary Ferrara; she died in 1997. Among the
survivors are five daughters, Valerie Jewell and Vicky Ferrara, both of St.
Louis, Gloria Miller of Ballwin, Maria Grimoldi of south St. Louis County and
Alicia Strippgen of St. Peters; two sons, Peter Ferrara and Paul Ferrara, both
of St. Louis; a sister, Carolyn Liebich of St. Louis; and six grandchildren.

Memorial contributions may be made to the American Diabetes Association.

LOAD-DATE: December 19, 1999

LANGUAGE: English

GRAPHIC: PHOTO Photo headshot - (Peter A.) Ferrara
 Specialized in immigration law

                  Copyright 1999 St. Louis Post-Dispatch, Inc.


                              449 of 457 DOCUMENTS

                       St. Louis Post-Dispatch (Missouri)

                 July 30, 1996, Tuesday, FIVE STAR LIFT Edition

CONGRESS' WELFARE BILLS HAVE STATES WORRIED; LAWMAKERS SAY PROVISIONS MAY COST A
BUNDLE

BYLINE: Fred W. Lindecke Missouri Political Correspondent

SECTION: WAR PAGE; Pg. 11B

LENGTH: 628 words


Missouri Political Correspondent STATES SAY they'd like to be considered in
Congress' welfare reform measure, because they could get stuck with paying the
bill.

Leaders of the National Conference of State Legislatures said Monday they were
in constant touch with House and Senate conferees on the final form of the
federal welfare reform bill being written.

About 4,600 legislators, staff aides and people associated with state
legislators are attending the national conference's annual meeting at Ameri ca's
Center. The meeting runs through Wednesday.

State Sen. James J. Lack, R-N.Y., and state Rep. Jane Campbell, D-Ohio, said the
conference had serious concerns about some provisions of welfare bills passed
this month by the House and Senate. Lack is conference president, and Campbell
is immediate past president.

Lack said a provision denying welfare benefits to legal immigrants would be "a
nightmare" for New York and other states with high immigrant populations. He
said the New York Constitution required giving welfare benefits to immigrants,
and if Congress banned them, New York would have to pick up a potential $ 1
billion in costs.

Nationwide, banning federal welfare benefits to legal immigrants could result in
shifting $ 11 billion in costs to states, a conference report said.

Campbell said the federal bill called for it to take effect Oct. 1. She said the
states wanted the effective date delayed until Oct. 1, 1997, to give them time
to adjust. Most state legislatures will be out of session af ter Oct. 1 this
year, she said.

Although different in many respects, the House and Senate bills agree in setting
a two-year limit on welfare benefits without the beneficiary being employed, and
a five-year lifetime limit on welfare benefits. They would give states block
grants, eliminating waivers states now must obtain to install their own welfare
requirements.

Campbell said 36 states already had set time limits, and 24 states had set work
requirements. But the conference staff reported that in only two states -
Vermont and Florida - have laws been in effect long enough for the time limit to
expire. So far, only eight families in Florida have been cut off, according to
conference data.

Campbell said that if children were abused in a family cut off from benefits,
they could be put in foster care, but this also has not happened.

Sen. James L. Mathewson, D-Sedalia, president pro tem of the Missouri Senate,
said Missouri had passed a law in 1994 providing child care and job training for
welfare mothers, but setting no time limit for them to get a job.

"There are 26,000 less people on welfare now," Mathewson said. "One of the
reasons is the economy is good. For the present fiscal year, the cost of aid to
families with dependent children is $ 10 million less."

But he said Missouri had to get 19 separate waivers from the federal government
to carry out its welfare changes. "If they would just give us 75 to 80 percent
of the money we're getting now and leave us alone, we'll deliver a lot better
system than they'll ever dream up," he said.

Mathewson said he had worked out a system in which applicants for food stamps in
Sedalia were sent to the nearby Tyson Foods plant to get a job. He said, "The
word went around, 'Don't go sign up for food stamps. They'll make you go pick
chickens at Tyson.' "

But federal law has a provision that if an applicant is denied a job because of
an employer requirement, food stamps cannot be cut off. Mathewson said Tyson had
a drug test, so new advice hit the street: "Go shoot up, and then you don't have
to take the job," Mathewson said.

He said he hoped the federal welfare bill would allow Missouri to use its own
discretion on dealing with this problem.

LOAD-DATE: August 2, 1996

LANGUAGE: English

                  Copyright 1996 St. Louis Post-Dispatch, Inc.


                              450 of 457 DOCUMENTS

                       St. Louis Post-Dispatch (Missouri)

             September 11, 1996, Wednesday, FIVE STAR LIFT Edition

LEGAL IMMIGRANTS DESERVE BETTER

SECTION: EDITORIAL; Pg. 6B

LENGTH: 360 words


Legal immigrants and the American cities they call home are clearly among the
biggest losers in the welfare bill signed last month by President Bill Clinton.

Washington passed the law and ignored the social consequences of making legal
immigrants who aren't yet American citizens bear most of the financial
responsibility of cutting welfare. Half the estimated $ 55 billion savings in
federal welfare spending over the next five years is to come from cuts in food
stamp benefits mainly to these immigrants.

In their misguided assumptions about human behavior, proponents of food stamp
cuts are predicting that the change will force recipients to find jobs and pay
their own way. Such pie-in-the-sky thinking also has clouded the potential
consequences of cutting welfare benefits in general.

Because many towns and cities already are experiencing high unemployment, they
say it's unrealistic to expect their recipients of public aid and food stamps to
find work. One extreme example of potential disastrous consequences of the food
stamp cuts is likely to occur in Hidalgo County Texas. There, reports The New
York Times, at least one in 12 county residents is a legal immigrant. The area's
unemployment rate is over 18 percent, so jobs aren't exactly plentiful.

County officials project a minimum economic loss of $ 18 million a year from the
welfare cuts. Much higher losses are likely to occur in major cities - including
Houston, Los Angeles, New York and El Paso, Texas - that have larger legal
immigrant communities. All are predicting dire social consequences, though the
new law gives some cities breathing room. That's because states have up to a
year to recertify legal immigrants for food stamps and determining whether
certain adverse circumstances dictate that they be allowed to keep their
benefits.

By then, perhaps, federal lawmakers will have come to their senses and realized
the needless hardships the new food stamp rules are inflicting. Mr. Clinton set
this potential disaster into motion when he signed the wel fare bill. If
re-elected, he must work just as hard to shield legal immigrants from the bill's
consequences.

LOAD-DATE: September 11, 1996

LANGUAGE: English

TYPE: EDITORIAL

                  Copyright 1996 St. Louis Post-Dispatch, Inc.


                              451 of 457 DOCUMENTS

                       St. Louis Post-Dispatch (Missouri)

                October 13, 1996, Sunday, FIVE STAR LIFT Edition

AMERICANS MUST GET OVER OUR FEAR OF 'THEM'

BYLINE: Gregory Freeman

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 5B

LENGTH: 699 words

GREGORY FREEMAN COLUMN


SOME AMERICANS are afraid.

They're afraid that "they" are taking over.

"They" are people who don't look like them, who come from other cultures,
sometimes from other countries.

It can be felt in much of the anti-immigration legislation that has gone through
Congress. Congress was prepared to push out a bill that would have allowed
states to deny public education to children of illegal aliens. That bill also
would have made even legal immigrants liable for deportation if they used
government relief programs for one year out of their first seven in the country.
President Bill Clinton balked, and those sections were dropped.

Here in Missouri, some legislators tried this year to have English adopted as
the state's official language. The attempt failed.

But the legislation was symptomatic of the fear that some have of people who are
of different cultures.

Though there are exceptions, many urbanologists theorize that when a previously
all-white neighborhood becomes more than about 30 percent bl ack, white flight
begins. It's not necessarily the case that the blacks who move in are bad people
or poor neighbors; it's a fear of the unknown, a concern that people of a
different color have come in.

That is but one example of the fear that many have of America's increasing
diversity.

Yet the diversity continues. A presidential panel in the late 1980s stated that
a majority of those entering the workforce in 2000 will be women or minorities.
Indeed, Hispanics, African-Americans, American Indians and Asian-Americans
collectively make up more than a quarter of the nation's population, and those
numbers are certain to increase. The increasing racial, religious and cultural
diversity of this nation is a fact, one that could not be changed, even if the
most stringent immigration laws were put into place tomorrow.

Demographer Martha Farnsworth Riche writes:s "If current trends continue, the
United States will become a nation with no racial or ethnic majority during the
21st century . . . Without fully realizing it, we have left the time when the
nonwhite, non-Western part of our population could be expected to assimilate to
the dominate majority. In the future, the white Western majority will have to do
some assimilating of its own."

Although immigration into the St. Louis area has been slower than on the coasts
or in larger cities like Chicago, it's been happening here as well. Census and
demographic experts estimate that there are now 14,000 Mexican immigrants in the
St. Louis area; 7,500 Chinese immigrants; 5,000 German immigrants; 5,000 Koreans
and 4,705 Vietnamese. As many as 80,000 people in the area are believed to be
immigrants.

We may not notice them as readily as we might in other cities because St. Louis
has no barrio, no Chinatown.

Some look upon the changing demographics of this country, even of this area, as
a threat. It makes more sense Ito look upon them as an opportunity.

As a high school student, I had a wonderful opportunity to participate in a
program called the Experiment in International Living. The program sent me to a
small town in Mexico for a summer to live with a family. I learned and
experienced a culture completely different from my own, yet filled with its own
wonderful traditions and customs. I learned that even though we came from two
entirely different places, the people there wanted the same things we did: good
housing, decent schools, jobs that paid a living wage. The parents there cared
as much about their youngsters as parents here; the youngsters loved their
parents as much as we do here.

I approached that culture with an open mind and was enriched by it, and I
learned that there are some basics that make up all human beings.

As our nation changes, we are faced with two choices: embrace the diversity that
is coming toward us and learn how it can be used as an asset; or put our heads
in the sand in hopes that the diversity will somehow vanish. The smart person
would invest in the former concept.

Our challenge is to prepare ourselves for the changes that are coming and to do
all that we can to make sure that our nation's transition is as smooth as
possible.

LOAD-DATE: October 16, 1996

LANGUAGE: English

                  Copyright 1996 St. Louis Post-Dispatch, Inc.


                              452 of 457 DOCUMENTS

                       St. Louis Post-Dispatch (Missouri)

                  October 13, 1996, Sunday, THREE STAR Edition

FLAG WAIVER: WELFARE REFORM SPURS CITIZENSHIP OATH AT 106

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 9A

LENGTH: 620 words

DATELINE: WASHINGTON


Sometime after Henriette Bolane turned 100 years old, she started bothering her
son-in-law for the application that would let her become a U.S. citizen. But
because it meant she'd have to make a trip to Baltimore, and because his
mother-in-law was so old that the matter seemed academic, he put her off again
and again.

Then, this summer, President Bill Clinton signed welfare legislation that cuts
off benefits even to legal immigrants. And Roger Guelce finally found a reason
to make the trip.

"After the law, if she's not a citizen, they're not going to give her her
Medicaid," said Guelce, explaining his understanding of the new welfare reform
act. "If she becomes a citizen, definitely they have to give that to her."

So it was that Thursday, 30 days shy of her 106th birthday, Henriette Bolane
became the oldest new American in known history.

"We're proud to have you be a citizen," said Ben Ferro, director of the
Immigration and Naturalization Service's Maryland office, who traveled to
Bolane's home in Hyattsville, Md., to administer the oath.

This year the INS has naturalized a record 1.2 million new citizens, three times
the number of a year ago. The rush was prompted by an array of circumstances.
But most pressing is the welfare reform act, which denies food stamps and
disability benefits to all noncitizens, even resident immigrants in the country
legally.

For Bolane, remarkably, the issue was not yet crucial. She has no health
problems except high blood pressure. With her Medicaid card, she fills her
prescription for $ 1 at the area drugstore.

Bolane was chasing her grandchildren around the yard in her 90s. The night she
turned 100, she danced until 4 in the morning.

But no one expects fabulous health to hold forever.

"Ever since she hit 104, her body started slowing down," said grandson Roger
Guelce Jr., 31.

When Bolane was born in Haiti on Nov. 10, 1890, Benjamin Harrison was the U.S.
president, American Indians were gathering at Wounded Knee, S.D., and a new
immigration facility was about to open on Ellis Island.

But Bolane spent most of her life in the mountains of Haiti, raising corn,
avocados, rice and other staples in a region called Petite Rivier de Nips.

Bolane oversees five generations - all the more notable considering she began
her family late in life.

Bolane came to the United States from the Haitian capital of Port-au-Prince,
where she lived with a daughter after her husband, Philogene, died in 1963.

The first of her children, a daughter, came to this country when dictator Papa
Doc Duvalier came to power. The daughter's husband had been an official in the
previous government and fled to the United States for political asylum. Over the
years, all but one of Bolane's children followed. Bolane's move to the United
States was sponsored by a daughter in 1979.

As a legal immigrant over age 55 who had called the country home for 15 years,
she became eligible for citizenship two years ago. When her son-in-law took her
to Baltimore to apply last month, the INS bent over backward to make the process
simple. The criminal background check was waived, as it routinely is for
applicants older than 79. Ditto the English language requirement.

Eventually, it became clear to INS officials that Bolane was the oldest
immigrant to apply for citizenship.

Bolane listened as her grandson translated into Creole the oath of allegiance to
the United States. She interrupted only once. It was at the promise to "bear
arms on behalf of the United States."

"I'm too old," Bolane said. "I can't do anything for anybody. People have to do
things for me now."

The man from the INS laughed. "That's the way it should be now," he said.

LOAD-DATE: October 14, 1996

LANGUAGE: English

                  Copyright 1996 St. Louis Post-Dispatch, Inc.


                              453 of 457 DOCUMENTS

                       St. Louis Post-Dispatch (Missouri)

              February 15, 1997, Saturday, FIVE STAR LIFT EDITION

DISABILITY MONEY IS ENDING FOR HALF A MILLION

BYLINE: AP

SECTION: NEWS, Pg. 29

LENGTH: 133 words

DATELINE: WASHINGTON


Notices will be arriving in hundreds of thousands of mailboxes in the next few
weeks that the government is cutting off disability benefits for up to half a
million elderly and disabled legal immigrants. It is among the first concrete
results of the Republican-crafted welfare bill President Bill Clinton signed in
August.

Immigrant-advocacy groups are worried.

"One of our greatest fears is that the United States will have a rash of
suicides among the very old and disabled immigrants who are left wit hout any
source of income or medical care," Sharon Daly, a Catholic Charities official,
told a House subcommittee this week.

The welfare overhaul law will mean an end to disability benefits for as many as
500,000 of the 803,000 legal immigrants drawing that assistance.

LOAD-DATE: February 15, 1997

LANGUAGE: English

                  Copyright 1997 St. Louis Post-Dispatch, Inc.


                              454 of 457 DOCUMENTS

                       St. Louis Post-Dispatch (Missouri)

               March 12, 1997, Wednesday, FIVE STAR LIFT EDITION

EX-IRA MEMBER WON'T GET HEARING UNTIL DECEMBER

BYLINE: Tim O'Neil; Of The Post-Dispatch Staff

SECTION: NEWS, Pg. 02B

LENGTH: 395 words


Lawyers almost always see delay as a good thing. Francie Broderick sees a
Christmas season in court.

On Tuesday, a federal immigration judge set Dec. 1 as the date for a deportation
hearing for Matthew Morrison, 41, of University City. He is a former member of
the Irish Republican Army who spent time in prison in Northern Ireland.

Morrison had expected the hearing in September, but the judge delayed it.

Broderick, 47, and Morrison are married and have two young children. She is a
native of St. Louis. They met while he was in prison.

After the closed 40-minute hearing downtown Tuesday, Morrison said he had mixed
feelings about the delay. He said it gave them more time to prepare his case but
dragged things out.

Broderick didn't like it. "It's going to be another Christmas like this," she
said. "Instead of thinking about Santa Claus for the kids, we'll be getting
ready for the case."

She said she needed to find new ways to raise money. "This is one American
citizen who is very tired of begging for the right to have her family be with
her," she said. "We're out of money and tired of going back to our friends."

Morrison was 19 and a member of the IRA in his native Derry when he fired a shot
and missed a member of the Royal Ulster Constabulary. He spent 10 years in
prison. After he and Broderick met, he applied for a visa to the United States
and did not disclose that he was a felon.

The U.S. government seeks to send him and six other former IRA members back to
Northern Ireland. The Immigration and Naturalization Service says it is
enforcing the restriction upon entry by former members of terrorist groups.

D. Warren Hoff Jr., one of Morrison's lawyers, said of Tuesday's hearing, "This
will give us more time to prepare. We are pleased with the outcome, but I am
saying that as a lawyer. From a psychological standpoint, this is very
difficult."

The cases of Morrison and the other former IRA members have become causes for
some Americans of Irish descent. On Feb. 6 in Washington, Broderick pleaded with
the Congressional Ad Hoc Committee for Irish Affairs to keep the men here.

On Tuesday, federal immigration Judge Clarease Mitchell Rankin ruled in a
conference call from her office in Houston. Joseph Dierkes, an Immigration and
Naturalization Service lawyer in Kansas City, also participated by telephone.


LOAD-DATE: March 13, 1997

LANGUAGE: English

GRAPHIC: PHOTO, Photo headshot - (Matthew) Morrison

                  Copyright 1997 St. Louis Post-Dispatch, Inc.


                              455 of 457 DOCUMENTS

                       St. Louis Post-Dispatch (Missouri)

                 May 7, 1997, Wednesday, FIVE STAR LIFT EDITION

LEGAL IMMIGRANTS GAIN AS GOP GIVES IN

BYLINE: AP

SECTION: NEWS, Pg. 09A

LENGTH: 468 words

DATELINE: WASHINGTON


President Bill Clinton began his second term promising to restore welfare
benefits that legal immigrants lost in last year's welfare overhaul. Republicans
promised to stop him.

It is now clear that Clinton has largely won, and disability checks will keep
going out to hundreds of thousands of immigrants.

It was not just deal-making that persuaded Republicans to change. Months of
lobbying, notably from GOP governors, convinced leaders of Congress that helping
immigrants made for good policy - and for good politics.

"We met with the governors. We learned of some of the problems that were being
experienced in the states and in the cities," said Senate Majority Leader Trent
Lott, R-Miss.

Republican governors from New York, Illinois and California made it clear that
cutting benefits would leave their states to care for elderly, sick immigrants
who legally came to this country under federal rules.

Such pressure helped persuade Lott, who originally ruled out restoring benefits,
to accept Clinton's position in the balanced-budget accord announced last
Friday.

At the start of budget negotiations, Republicans were unwilling even to consider
it, said Franklin Raines, director of the Office of Management and Budget.

"Over a period of time - and, I think, very good and healthy discussions - they
came to agree with us that these provisions went too far," Raines said.

Congressional Republicans also were affected by accounts in newspapers and on
television about elderly immigrants being cut off the rolls, immigrant advocates
say. The Wall Street Journal wrote about an elderly Mexican immigrant who killed
himself, possibly in fear of losing support.

Officials estimate that 500,000 immigrants - most of them disabled - would have
been kicked off the Supplemental Security Income program under last year's
welfare changes.

Last week's agreement helps about two-thirds of them with $ 10 billion to
continue SSI and Medicaid for immigrants in the United States on Aug. 22, 1996,
when the welfare law was signed. That includes noncitizens already on the rolls
and those who may become disabled in the future. It does not include those who
are elderly but not disabled.

Confusion remains about whether the compromise allows immigrants who arrived
after the welfare law was signed to qualify for SSI. Congressional Republicans
say no. Administration officials say yes but only after considering the income
of their immigration sponsors.

There is also confusion about whether future legal immigrant children will be
covered by Medicaid, another proposal of Clinton's.

All legal immigrants - current and future - were cut off food stamps, and that
will not change. And future immigrants will no longer qualify for cash welfare
payments that aid poor families and children.

LOAD-DATE: May 7, 1997

LANGUAGE: English

                  Copyright 1997 St. Louis Post-Dispatch, Inc.


                              456 of 457 DOCUMENTS

                       St. Louis Post-Dispatch (Missouri)

                 March 15, 1998, Sunday, FIVE STAR LIFT EDITION

DEATH PENALTY WILL BE SOUGHT AGAINST ALIEN SMUGGLERS;
THREE CUBAN REFUGEES DIED IN VOYAGE TO MIAMI

BYLINE: Reuters News Service

SECTION: NEWS, Pg. A10

LENGTH: 254 words

DATELINE: MIAMI


Prosecutors say they will seek the death penalty against three brothers accused
of smuggling Cuban refugees to Miami, three of whom died.

Abel Morejon, 34, of Hialeah, Miami, and his two brothers, Nicandro, 38, and
Jorge, 39, were charged Thursday with alien smuggling.

"This is a very serious case, and we feel it is a death penalty case," U.S.
Assistant Attorney Yvonne Rodriguez-Schack said Saturday in a report in the
Sun-Sentinel newspaper.

But U.S. Attorney General Janet Reno must first give approval for the
prosecutors to seek the death penalty, the newspaper said.

The maximum penalty for alien smuggling is normally three years in prison, but
the offense becomes felony murder if anyone dies during the smuggling attempt.

The U.S. Coast Guard was alerted Thursday that the 24-foot High Seas was taking
on water about four miles off the Florida coast when someone on board used a
cellular telephone to call a relative living in Miami.

A rescue helicopter found the boat capsized and awash in water, surrounded by
about 16 people initially believed to be Cuban nationals.

One man was pronounced dead on arrival at a Miami hospital Thursday. A woman
from the boat also died Thursday, having been briefly revived after being found
in the water.

The Coast Guard gave up a sea search Friday for a 4-year-old girl who had been
aboard the motorboat and is now believed dead.

The Sun-Sentinel said that the brothers were being held without bail and that a
hearing was set for Wednesday.

LOAD-DATE: March 15, 1998

LANGUAGE: English

                  Copyright 1998 St. Louis Post-Dispatch, Inc.


                              457 of 457 DOCUMENTS

                       St. Louis Post-Dispatch (Missouri)

                January 22, 1999, Friday, FIVE STAR LIFT EDITION

WORLD

BYLINE: From News Services

SECTION: NEWS, Pg. A4, WORLD BRIEFS COLUMN

LENGTH: 946 words



MEXICO

Ex-president's brother gets 50 years for 1994 murder

A judge convicted the elder brother of Mexico's former president of ordering the
murder of a top politician and sentenced him to 50 years in prison Thursday.
Raul Salinas de Gortari, brother of Carlos Salinas de Gortari, was convicted and
sentenced for the 1994 murder of Jose Francisco Ruiz Massieu, a leader of the
ruling Institutional Revolutionary Party who also happened to be his former
brother-in-law. He was also convicted of unrelated counts of using false
documents and making false declarations. Prosecutors have suggested that Raul
Salinas saw Ruiz Massieu as a threat to the Salinas family's political power.
They also said there was bad blood stemming from Ruiz Massieu's divorce from the
Salinas' sister. Judge Ricardo Ojeda Borges ruled that although there was no
confession or direct evidence linking Raul Salinas to the crime, there was
sufficient circumstantial evidence. The Salinas trial was the highest-profile
murder case in modern Mexican history and broke a long taboo against prosecuting
the relatives of powerful politicians.

CUBA

Crackdown targets smuggling people into Florida

Responding to a new wave of Cuban immigrants landing in south Florida, Cuba's
communist government said Thursday that it would crack down on alien smugglers
who charge thousands of dollars for the journey across the Florida Straits.
"Unfortunately, there has been a notable increase recently" in alien smuggling
from Cuba, Foreign Ministry spokesman Alejandro Gonzalez said at a news
conference. "The illegal traffic of people is a dangerous, unscrupulous business
. . . and Cuba intends to adopt the most severe measures against these people,"
he said. In 1995, the United States halted a decades-old policy of accepting
most Cuban refugees rescued at sea. That ended a mass exodus of refugees who set
out in makeshift vessels to cross the 90 miles separating Cuba and Key West. But
authorities still accept refugees who make it to U.S. soil, which has created a
burgeoning industry for smugglers who charge refugees up to $ 8,000 and have
boats that can outrun U.S. Coast Guard patrols.

NICARAGUA

Army transport plane slams into hillside, killing 28

A Nicaraguan army transport plane crashed into a hillside on the country's
eastern coast Thursday, killing all 28 on board, army officials said. The
Soviet-made An-26 was carrying 13 officers and 15 of their civilian relatives
when it crashed into the hill four miles from the Caribbean coast town of
Bluefields, its destination. "It was a routine flight transporting passengers,"
Army spokesman Capt. Milton Sandoval said, adding that "the plane was not
overloaded." The plane went down about 50 minutes after its takeoff from
Managua's international airport, he said. Residents in Bluefields said the
weather in the area was clear Thursday morning. "We don't know the cause of the
accident," Sandoval said.

ANGOLA

U.N. struggles with efforts to end renewed civil conflict

Fighting rages across most of Angola, the government conceded Thursday, but
officials insisted the army still has the upper hand on UNITA rebels. Meanwhile,
the U.N. Security Council decided Thursday to continue trying to salvage a 1994
peace deal and maintain at least a token presence in the southwest African
nation. The civil war restarted last month when government troops moved against
a UNITA stronghold in the central highlands. The government accused the rebels
of violating a U.N.-brokered peace accord, which now appears all but shattered.
U.N. Secretary-General Kofi Annan had recommended that all monitors withdraw,
but the Security Council on Thursday adopted a resolution to continue some
presence. The U.N. mandate in Angola expires Feb. 26.

JAMAICA

Plan to protect tourism with soldiers raises concern

Faced with increasing attacks against tourists, Jamaican officials are
discussing controversial plans to have foot soldiers and police on bicycles
patrol beaches and resorts. A spate of attacks has already hurt the $ 1.2
billion industry that earns most of Jamaica's foreign currency, said Danny
Melville, a governing party legislator. "Hoteliers are having to discount their
prices at the height of the winter season," Melville complained to Parliament on
Wednesday. The opposition Jamaica Labor Party balked at deploying troops, saying
they would not "portray to visitors a good image of resort locations designed
primarily for relaxation and pleasure." Hotel and tour operators, who were
initially critical of the plan, said they had changed their minds. "As I
understand it, the soldiers would be used in a discreet way," Patrick Lawe,
owner of Negril's 20-suite Seasplash Resort, said Thursday.

CAMBODIA

U.N. envoy rejects widening scope of genocide trials

A top U.N. envoy rejected a proposal by Cambodia's prime minister on Thursday to
widen the scope of Khmer Rouge genocide trials to include nations that backed
the guerrilla movement. The idea was seen as targeting the United States and
China, both of which have been blamed for helping the Khmer Rouge rise to power
and then fight a long civil war after it was toppled. Since Washington and
Beijing were sure to shoot down the proposal in the U.N. Security Council, it
raised new doubts over Prime Minister Hun Sen's willingness to prosecute leaders
of the Khmer Rouge for their bloodstained rule of 1975-79. Thomas Hammarberg,
the U.N. special representative for human rights in Cambodia, dismissed Hun
Sen's idea, adding that he hoped a tribunal could be established and begin
hearings in "this millennium."

LOAD-DATE: July 24, 1999

LANGUAGE: English

GRAPHIC: PHOTO AGENCE FRANCE-PRESSE Color Photo
 Pinochet case continues in Britain - Demonstrators opposed to Augusto Pinochet
continue their protest Thursday outside the House of Lords in London. A panel of
judges is hearing arguments on diplomatic immunity for Pinochet, the former
dictator of Chile. Spain wants to try him for crimes against humanity.

                  Copyright 1999 St. Louis Post-Dispatch, Inc.
