
                               1 of 137 DOCUMENTS


                       St. Louis Post-Dispatch (Missouri)

                            April 28, 2010 Wednesday
                                 THIRD EDITION

Uncivil rights Editorial notebook o Arizona's new immigration law flouts our
constitutional rights.

BYLINE: - Gilbert Bailon

SECTION: EDITORIAL; Pg. A12

LENGTH: 612 words

DATELINE: 0


Recent history is littered with failed attempts by state or local politicians to
create laws to trump federal oversight of immigration.

The most infamous of these was California Proposition 187 in 1994, where 59
percent of voters approved a measure championed by Gov. Pete Wilson. The law
would have denied illegal immigrants access to health care, education and social
services. It was overturned by a federal judge, who ruled in 1997 that
regulating immigration is a federal responsibility.

Nonetheless, Arizona Gov. Jan Brewer last Friday signed Senate Bill 1070, passed
by a Tea Party-inspired state legislature. It calls for local law enforcement
officers to check the legal documents of anyone "where reasonable suspicion
exists that the person is an alien who is unlawfully in the United States."

The less-government, law-and-order "patriots" passed a law that runs afoul of
protections within the Bill of Rights, rights that apply to everyone in this
country, regardless of citizenship.

It is absurd to believe that police officers can identify illegal immigrants
without racially profiling people based on ethnicity, nationality or language.
What are the traits of an illegal immigrant? The law doesn't specify.

As a third-generation Mexican-American and native Arizonan, I and many in my
native state view this law as a personal insult that attacks the essence of our
freedoms and our right to pursue the American Dream. Every American now should
be worried about his own civil rights.

Should I take my passport when I visit relatives? What if I wear my boots and a
Mexican soccer jersey while eating at a taqueria in South Phoenix? My mother,
81, wonders whether she should carry a birth certificate - even though she is an
Arizona native, the daughter of a migrant from Chihuahua, Mexico, who came to
work in the copper mines in the early 1900s, long before the Border Patrol was
formed in 1924.

Ironies abound. On Tuesday night, fans jammed a sports arena to cheer the
Phoenix Coyotes in game seven of the hockey playoffs. The Coyotes have only four
U.S.-born players; their star goalie is Russian. The Arizona Diamondbacks have
key baseball players from Mexico, Venezuela and the Dominican Republic.

Which ones should cops be "reasonably suspicious" of?

Illegal immigration has been a vexing problem for decades. It won't be fixed
until Congress passes comprehensive changes regarding enforcement, hiring
foreign-born workers and legalization of illegal immigrants who meet rigorous
standards.

Border enforcement and personnel have increased significantly under the Bush and
Obama administrations, especially since the Sept. 11, 2001, terrorist attacks.
Yet our immigration system remains tattered.

Negative reaction to SB 1070 has been broad and swift. Critics include President
Barack Obama, Mexican President Felipe Calderón, Homeland Security Secretary
Janet Napolitano (a former Arizona governor) and Phoenix Mayor Phil Gordon. The
American Immigration Lawyers Association, along with Los Angeles' La Opinión,
the nation's largest Spanish-language daily newspaper, have called for an
economic and tourism boycott of Arizona.

This Saturday, many cities - including St. Louis - will see May Day marches
advocating immigration reform and civil rights. Arizona lawmakers - most of them
Republican - unintentionally have created a galvanizing issue to help mobilize
Democrats in the fall elections.

Legal precedent suggests that eventually the law will be reversed. But in the
meantime, the firestorm has put immigration back on the national stage, where
ultimate solutions might be possible instead of one-off sideshows that violate
our fundamental rights.

- Gilbert Bailon

LOAD-DATE: April 28, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: EDITORIAL

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                  Copyright 2010 St. Louis Post-Dispatch, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                               2 of 137 DOCUMENTS


                       St. Louis Post-Dispatch (Missouri)

                              July 26, 2010 Monday
                                 THIRD EDITION

The buildup to Arizona law Rancher's murder was flashpoint, but discontent had
been stewing.

BYLINE: By JACQUES BILLEAUD and AMANDA LEE MYERS o Associated Press

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. A8

LENGTH: 517 words

DATELINE: 0


PHOENIX - As the days tick down until the Arizona immigration law takes effect,
the state stands as a monument to the anger over illegal immigration that is
present in so many places.

The anger has been simmering for years, and erupted into a full-blown fury with
the murder of a prominent rancher on the border earlier this year. The killing
became a powerful rallying cry for immigration reform and the sweeping new law
set to take effect Thursday, barring any last-minute legal action.

But it does not tell the whole story about how Arizona got to this point. The
evening news regularly reports on the state's battle with illegal immigration: a
drop house crammed with illegal border-crossers smack in the middle of a
suburban neighborhood; traffic patrols and workplace raids that net the arrest
of dozens of illegal immigrants; politicians speaking venomously about border
violence and the leech of immigration costs on the state treasury.

Then rancher Robert Krentz was gunned down in March while checking water lines
on his property near the border. Authorities believe a scout for drug smugglers,
was probably to blame. Almost immediately Krentz came to symbolize what's at
stake with illegal immigration. Everyday folks spoke with anger and fear about
the rancher's death.

Between 40 percent and 50 percent of all immigrant arrests each year on the
U.S.-Mexico border are made in Arizona, according to the U.S. Border Patrol.

And the annual costs? About $600 million for educating illegal immigrants at
K-12 schools, more than $120 million for jailing illegal immigrants convicted of
state crimes and as much as $50 million that hospitals have to eat for treating
illegal border-crossers, according to figures provided by Superintendent of
Public Instruction Tom Horne, Gov. Jan Brewer's office and the Arizona Hospital
and Healthcare Association.

Immigrant medical costs led the hospital to shutter a skilled nursing facility
and its maternity ward several years ago, according to the hospital's top
administrator.

John Leopard, who camped out with Minuteman Project volunteers during a 2005
patrol north of the border, says he's not as irritated by seeing day laborers
lining street corners as he is the federal government's inactions and the
Justice Department's lawsuit against Arizona's new immigration law.

The law requires police who are enforcing other laws to check a person's
immigration status if officers reasonably suspect the person is in the country
illegally. It also requires that people carry and produce their immigration
papers, while making it a crime for illegal immigrants to solicit work in a
public place.

Opponents of the law say illegal immigrants are being wrongly characterized as
freeloaders, pointing out that they pay sales taxes and put money into Social
Security that they will never be able to take out. They say the state's rapid
growth over the last decade couldn't have happened without immigrant labor, that
housing prices have been kept reasonable by those who did work that U.S.
citizens wouldn't - like roofing a new subdivision in Arizona's 110-degree
summer heat.

LOAD-DATE: July 27, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC:  Matt York o Associated Press Day laborers, all of whom said they were
in the United States illegally, wait for work last week in Chandler, Ariz. The
state's new law on illegal immigrants goes into effect Thursday.

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                  Copyright 2010 St. Louis Post-Dispatch, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                               3 of 137 DOCUMENTS


                       St. Louis Post-Dispatch (Missouri)

                             July 31, 2010 Saturday
                                 THIRD EDITION

22 held in crime, immigration sweep Phoenix-area sheriff says he's just doing
job he has been doing before law took effect.

BYLINE: BY AMANDA LEE MYERS and JACQUES BILLEAUD Associated Press

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. A6

LENGTH: 442 words

DATELINE: 0


PHOENIX - Maricopa County Sheriff Joe Arpaio says 22 people were arrested in a
crime and immigration sweep conducted the same day Arizona's new immigration law
took effect, and that three of them are illegal immigrants.

Everyone arrested was stopped for traffic violations. Arpaio says three of them
were found to be illegal immigrants after they couldn't produce drivers licenses
or other identification.

The arrests came after about 180 deputies and trained sheriff's volunteers
fanned out across metropolitan Phoenix on Thursday targeting traffic violators
who may also be illegal immigrants. The sweep continued Friday afternoon.

It was the 17th such sweep conducted by the office. All the sweeps have netted
about 1,000 total arrests, and the sheriff's office says about 60 percent of
those were illegal immigrants.

Nowhere in the U.S. is local enforcement of immigration laws more present than
in metropolitan Phoenix, where Arpaio routinely carries out sweeps, some in
Hispanic neighborhoods, to arrest illegal immigrants. The tactics have made him
the undisputed poster boy for local immigration enforcement and the anger that
so many authorities feel about the issue.

"It's my job," said Arpaio, standing beside a sheriff's truck that has a number
for an immigration hot line written on its side. "I have two state (immigration)
laws that I am enforcing. It's not federal, it's state."

In addition to Arpaio's crackdowns, other efforts include a steady stream of
busts by the state and local police of stash houses where smugglers hide illegal
immigrants. The state attorney general has taken a money-wiring company to civil
court on allegations that smugglers used its service to move money to Mexico.
And a county south of Phoenix has its sheriff's deputies patrol dangerous
smuggling corridors.

Critics say Arpaio's deputies racially profile Hispanics.

"Sheriff Joe Arpaio and some other folks there decided they can make a name for
themselves in terms of the intensity of the efforts they're using," said
Benjamin Johnson, executive director of the pro-immigrant American Immigration
Council. "There's no way to deny that. There are a lot of people getting caught
up in these efforts."

The Justice Department launched an investigation of his office nearly 17 months
ago over allegations of discrimination and unconstitutional searches and
seizures. Although the department has declined to detail its investigation,
Arpaio believes it centers on his sweeps.

Arpaio feels no reservations about continuing to push the sweeps.

"I'm not going to brag," Arpaio said. "Just look at the record. I'm doing what I
feel is right for the people of Maricopa County."

LOAD-DATE: August 3, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                  Copyright 2010 St. Louis Post-Dispatch, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                               4 of 137 DOCUMENTS


                       St. Louis Post-Dispatch (Missouri)

                             May 12, 2010 Wednesday
                                 FIRST EDITION

Chas Beat

SECTION: COMMUNITY; Pg. B3

LENGTH: 355 words

DATELINE: 0


Highlights from our blog of St. Charles County news and notes.
STLtoday.com/chasbeat

St. Charles County wants Arizona-type immigration law in Missouri

The St. Charles County Council has endorsed Arizona's controversial new
immigration law and called on the Missouri Legislature to enact similar
legislation. The council voted 6-1 on Monday night for a nonbinding resolution
on the issue. "This law mirrors existing federal laws which are not being
enforced," says the resolution, sponsored by Republican Joe Brazil of Defiance.
"Illegal immigration places enormous financial stress on the resources of
bordering states."

Brazil was joined by the council's four other Republicans and Democrat Jerry
Daugherty of Portage des Sioux in voting for the resolution. The only "no" vote
was from Democrat Cheryl Hibbeler of O'Fallon. Hibbeler said in an interview
that resolutions on issues that don't involve the county government "have no
place in our County Council meetings."

The Arizona law requires law enforcement officials to question people about
immigration status if there is reason to suspect they're in the United States
illegally.

After critics warned that the law could spur racial profiling, Arizona lawmakers
made changes aimed at reducing that possibility. One change states that
immigration-related questions would follow when a police officer stops someone
while enforcing another law. (Mark Schlinkmann > 05.11)

You replied

- I am concerned with how much power the police would have, not with what papers
foreigners must carry on their persons. (curmudgeon lady)

- By power, do you mean the power to do the job our federal government has
failed to do? (TheUnderboss)

- Looks like there was one grown-up in the room. (Bobfeld)

- If the federal government would be enforcing the laws already on the books,
states and municipalities would not have to be concerned with issues like this.
(Ask Grandpa)

- Why does everyone keep harping on ID? The Arizona law requires you to produce
proof of citizenship, which an ID is not, or your immigration papers (which a
citizen would not have, thus requiring proving your citizenship). (marigolds6)

LOAD-DATE: May 13, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                  Copyright 2010 St. Louis Post-Dispatch, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                               5 of 137 DOCUMENTS


                       St. Louis Post-Dispatch (Missouri)

                             May 19, 2010 Wednesday
                                 THIRD EDITION

It must be election time Immigration o Illogical copycat laws like Arizona's
would cost Missouri and other states dearly. OTHER VIEWS

BYLINE: By Joan Suarez and Jennifer Rafanan

SECTION: EDITORIAL; Pg. A11

LENGTH: 614 words

DATELINE: 0


People across the country have been speaking out over the past several weeks,
voicing concern and opposition to the new Arizona immigration law. In St. Louis
2,500 people, including St. Louisans and United Methodist Women from all across
the country in town for their quadrennial assembly, gathered May 1 at Kiener
Plaza to say "No" to Arizona.

At last report, some nine national groups had cancelled their plans to hold
their conventions in Arizona. And now the Los Angeles Dodgers reportedly are
looking for a new home for spring training so they don't have to return to
Arizona next year. Even the Republicans don't want to spend time in Arizona,
having chosen Tampa, Fla., over Phoenix for the 2012 Republican Convention.

The states that border Arizona also are speaking out against Arizona-style
legislation. New Mexico's governor says it is a step backwards. Texas isn't
touching it. And elected officials at every level in California are calling for
a boycott while lawsuits from around the country are ramping up. Arizona's new
law is poised to cost the state in a big way.

But in St. Charles, in a state where the total number of foreign-born
individuals statewide is less than 4 percent, the County Council last week
passed a non-binding resolution to "encourage" the Missouri Legislature to pass
an Arizona clone. It must be election time!

Now, in all fairness, the County Council was probably just voting on a
resolution in support of one of their own.  Republican State Rep. Mark
Parkinson, who represents parts of St. Charles County, introduced a bill in this
legislative session that he said dealt with human trafficking. In reality, the
bill would not have done anything to prevent trafficking or help victims of the
crime often known as "modern day slavery."

In fact, it completely ignored strong anti-trafficking provisions already
present in federal law and Missouri statute. It also included such ridiculous
provisions as making it a crime for a person without legal status to transport
him or herself.

Common sense prevailed in the International Trade and Immigration Committee this
year and the bill died with the adjournment of the Missouri Legislature last
Friday. However, Rep. Parkinson had an Arizona-type substitute waiting in the
wings, which we are sure to see introduced next year.

So during the legislative "off season," here are a few things for Missouri to
consider before rubber stamping Arizona's policy in the Show-Me State. Laws like
those Rep. Parkinson suggests will cost our cash-strapped state dearly. Those
great small businesses started by immigrants and refugees? Major companies that
want to hire U.S. and immigrant workers who are looking for a place to locate
their next office? Forget it, those businesses and jobs won't be here because
immigrants won't want to bring their families here to live and work.

Meanwhile, like Arizona, Missouri will have to use taxpayer dollars to defend
its unconstitutional law in court, and our state and local governments will be
stuck using their precious resources to do the federal government's job. These
are steep prices for a state with falling revenues that is having trouble
balancing its budget.

Instead, we need sensible, humane immigration reform, not a patchwork of
municipal, county and state laws that can lead to racial profiling and other
discrimination. Such laws decrease cooperation between local law enforcement and
immigrant communities, which costs states an arm and a leg, not only in dollars
and jobs but also in quality of life for residents.

Simply put, an Arizona law in Missouri would cost too much.

---

Joan Suarez and Jennifer Rafanan are Missouri-based immigrant and refugee
advocates.

LOAD-DATE: May 20, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC:  Christian Gooden o cgooden@post-dispatch.com  A protester at a May 1
rally at Kiener Plaza holds a sign showing what she thinks about  Arizona's new
immigration law. The law requires police to check the immigration status of any
person "reasonably suspected" to be in the United States illegally. Opponents
say the law amounts to racial profiling.

DOCUMENT-TYPE: COMMENTARY

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                  Copyright 2010 St. Louis Post-Dispatch, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                               6 of 137 DOCUMENTS


                       St. Louis Post-Dispatch (Missouri)

                             May 29, 2010 Saturday
                                 THIRD EDITION

Nation digest

BYLINE: From news services

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. A8

LENGTH: 405 words

DATELINE: 0


High court is asked to rule on Arizona immigration law

The administration of President Barack Obama has asked the Supreme Court to
decide whether federal immigration law trumps Arizona's attempt to punish
businesses that employ illegal immigrants. The solicitor general's office in the
Justice Department says an Arizona law on employer sanctions disrupts a careful
legal balance that Congress struck nearly 25 years ago. Lower courts have said
that the Arizona law is not pre-empted by the federal law. The Obama
administration says that should be reversed.

Gates talks to troops - Defense Secretary Robert Gates is telling troops not to
be distracted by the political debate over gays serving openly in the military.
In a special videotaped message to the armed forces Friday, Gates says the
military's review of how to implement a change in the "don't ask, don't tell"
policy will go forward. He says nothing will change while the review continues
and that it's more important than ever for men and women in uniform to help with
the study so the policy change can be done right.

Woman hit with custody suit on return from Haitian jail - At Idaho businesswoman
Laura Silsby's airport homecoming May 18 after more than 100 days in a Haitian
jail, she was enveloped by family, friends and media. She was also served legal
papers. Silsby's ex-husband, Terry Silsby, is seeking sole custody of their two
children.

New MMS leader - The chief of the Interior Department's land management bureau
has stepped in to run the much-criticized agency that oversees offshore oil
drilling after its director resigned under pressure. Bob Abbey took over as
acting director of the Minerals Management Service and will also keep his post
at the Bureau of Land Management. He replaces Elizabeth Birnbaum, who left
Thursday after 10 months as director of the agency that oversees drilling on
federal land and water.

Rand Paul stirs debate - Republican Senate candidate Rand Paul of Kentucky is
stirring it up again, this time by saying he opposes citizenship for children
born in the U.S. to parents who are illegal immigrants.

CDC releases guidelines - U.S. health officials released contraception safety
guidelines Friday for more than 1 million women who have had weight-loss surgery
or have certain medical conditions. The Centers for Disease Control and
Prevention guidelines say it's safe for women with medical conditions to use
most contraceptives.

LOAD-DATE: May 31, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                  Copyright 2010 St. Louis Post-Dispatch, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                               7 of 137 DOCUMENTS


                       St. Louis Post-Dispatch (Missouri)

                            June 23, 2010 Wednesday
                                 THIRD EDITION

Federal supremacy Our view o 'States rights' won't save Arizona's immigration
law.

SECTION: EDITORIAL; Pg. A14

LENGTH: 601 words

DATELINE: 0


The Obama administration has leaked, albeit clumsily, the Justice Department's
plans to file a legal challenge to Arizona Senate Bill 1070, which would require
local police to check the immigration status of anyone when "reasonable
suspicion exists" that the person is in the country illegally.

The idea first was revealed two weeks ago by, of all people, Secretary of State
Hillary Clinton in a television interview in, of all places, Ecuador, and has
been confirmed by administration sources.

If the Justice Department proceeds, it would be a highly unusual and risky
political gambit involving the politically volatile subject of immigration in a
congressional election year.

The political right has mobilized against the possible legal threat; the talking
points warn against another "government takeover" and an intrusive power grab of
states' authority. The language of the Arizona law "mirrors federal law," its
supporters say, so the Justice Department lacks the grounds to attack it.

The question pivots on whether immigration law is a federal domain. If so, it
trumps state laws, regardless of language, even if state laws violate
constitutional protections against illegal search and seizure.

Precedent for federal supremacy in immigration matters is abundantly clear.
Similarly, states cannot unilaterally declare war against another nation, sign
an independent international trade agreement or create their own currency.

Five federal lawsuits filed by Hispanic and civil rights advocacy groups are
pending against the Arizona law, set to take effect July 29. The lawsuits seek a
temporary injunction against the law's enforcement.

In addition, the Arizona Association of Chiefs of Police, as well the mayors and
police chiefs of the two largest Arizona cities, Phoenix and Tucson, oppose SB
1070.

The opponents cite Proposition 187 in California, which denied benefits to
illegal immigrants. It was overturned by a federal judge in 1997; the court held
that the state had intruded into federal jurisdiction.

California voters had approved Prop 187 by 57 percent, and a healthy majority in
public opinion polls supported it. But federal courts do not adjudicate based on
public opinion polls.

Illegal immigration is a major national problem that must be confronted, but
that should happen within a broader framework that includes the entire outdated
immigration system and border security. Congress' failure to do so has led to
states taking matters into their own hands; at least 20 states, including
Missouri, may follow Arizona's lead.

Even some towns are getting in on the action. On Monday, the meatpacking town of
Fremont, Neb., passed an ordinance that outlawed the hiring of illegal
immigrants and renting them housing.

As long as Congress fails to act, more problems will arise. Russell Pearce, the
Arizona state senator who sponsored SB 1070, now advocates that children born to
undocumented immigrants be denied U.S. citizenship - never mind that the 14th
Amendment grants citizenship to "all persons born or naturalized in the United
States."

Others seek to ban undocumented immigrant children from public schools, despite
the 1982 U.S. Supreme Court ruling in Plyler v. Doe in which Texas public
schools were ordered to educate all children. Recently, some critics vilified
the U.S. Census Bureau for counting all residents - as the Constitution mandates
- regardless of their legal status.

Our nation of laws is governed by the U.S. Constitution. Throughout our
country's history, local laws that violate defined federal authority have been
stuck down. The Arizona immigration law should be next.

LOAD-DATE: July 3, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: EDITORIAL

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                  Copyright 2010 St. Louis Post-Dispatch, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                               8 of 137 DOCUMENTS


                       St. Louis Post-Dispatch (Missouri)

                             July 31, 2010 Saturday
                                 THIRD EDITION

After ruling, judge gets threats Hundreds of e-mails, phone calls flood
courthouse after she blocked key parts of Arizona immigration law from taking
effect; governor considers changing statute.

BYLINE: BY JACQUES BILLEAUD and PAUL DAVENPORT o Associated Press

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. A6

LENGTH: 327 words

DATELINE: 0


PHOENIX - The fight over Arizona's immigration law showed no signs of letting up
Friday as the federal judge who blunted its force faced threats and the
Republican governor who signed it considered changes to address any faults.

In the days since U.S. District Judge Susan Bolton put on hold the most
controversial parts of the law, hundreds of e-mails and phone calls - including
some threats - have poured into the courthouse.

Seventy people have been arrested in demonstrations against the law.

And a fund set up to help defend the new law added $75,000 Wednesday alone,
giving the state more than $1.6 million in an effort to get Bolton's ruling
overturned.

Gov. Jan Brewer, who signed the law and appealed the ruling, has vowed not to
back down, saying she'll challenge Bolton's decision all the way to the Supreme
Court.

But Brewer said Friday that she would consider changes to "tweak" the law to
respond to the parts Bolton faulted.

"Basically we believe (the law) is constitutional, but she obviously pointed out
faults that can possibly be fixed, and that's what we would do," Brewer told The
Associated Press. She said she's talking to legislative leaders about the
possibility of a special session but said no specific changes had been
identified.

In her temporary injunction, Bolton delayed the most contentious provisions of
the law, including a section that required officers to check a person's
immigration status while enforcing other laws. Bolton indicated the federal
government's case has a good chance at succeeding in its argument that federal
immigration law trumps state law.

But she allowed police to enforce the law's bans on blocking vehicle traffic
when seeking or offering day-labor services and a revision to the smuggling ban
that lets officers stop drivers if they suspect motorists have broken traffic
laws.

Bolton also let officers enforce a new prohibition on driving or harboring
illegal immigrants in furtherance of their illegal presence.

LOAD-DATE: August 3, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC:  Photo by ASSOCIATED PRESS - Arizona civil rights activist Salvador
Reza, of the organization Puente, talks to reporters Friday in front of the 4th
Avenue Jail in Phoenix about his arrest during immigration protests Thursday.

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                  Copyright 2010 St. Louis Post-Dispatch, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                               9 of 137 DOCUMENTS


                       St. Louis Post-Dispatch (Missouri)

                              May 1, 2010 Saturday
                                 THIRD EDITION

Controversial immigration law tweaked As activists prepare for nationwide
rallies, Arizona makes changes to address concerns of profiling.

BYLINE: From news services

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. A4

LENGTH: 499 words

DATELINE: 0


As Arizona amended its controversial immigration law on Friday, activists hoped
to use it to draw enormous crowds of people to protest in rallies nationwide
today.

Dozens of marches are planned for today in cities across the country from St.
Louis to Los Angeles to New York.

"What happened in Arizona proves that racism and anti-immigrant hysteria across
the country still exist. We need to continue to fight," said Lee Siu Hin, a
coordinator with the Washington-based National Immigrant Solidarity Network.

Activists believe opposition to Arizona's new law could be the catalyst needed
to draw record-breaking crowds similar to those four years ago, when more than a
million people across the country united to fight federal legislation considered
anti-immigrant.

Since then, the movement has fractured and attendance has dropped sharply as
attempts to reform federal immigration policy fizzled. In 2006, nearly half a
million people took to Chicago's streets. Last year, fewer than 15,000
participated in the rallies, held annually on May 1 because it's a traditional
day of protest and International Workers Day.

On Friday night, Arizona Gov. Jan Brewer signed a bill approved by Arizona
legislators on the last day of their session to make changes to the law. The
follow-on bill makes numerous changes that she says should lay to rest concerns
that provisions of the law will lead to racial profiling.

"These new statements make it crystal clear and undeniable that racial profiling
is illegal, and will not be tolerated in Arizona," she said in a statement.

The changes include one strengthening restrictions against using race or
ethnicity as the basis for questioning by police and inserts those same
restrictions in other parts of the law.

Another change states that immigration-status questions would follow a law
enforcement officer's stopping, detaining or arresting a person while enforcing
another law. The earlier law had referred to a "contact" with police.

Another change specifies that possible violations of local civil ordinances can
trigger questioning on immigration status.

Both the law and the changes to it will take effect July 29 unless blocked by a
court or referendum filing.

The sponsor, Sen. Russell Pearce, said the revisions would not change how the
law is implemented but provide clarifications on intent and to make the bill
more defensible in court. "You have to have a real legitimate reason based on
some violation or some suspicious activity based on some legitimate reason" to
ask about immigration status, Pearce said. "It cannot be just on how you look."

In St. Louis - Bishop Minerva Carcaño, chair of the United Methodist Task Force
on Immigration, will lead a march at 11 a.m. today from America's Center to
Kiener Plaza. It is billed as a public faith-based vigil for immigrant, civil
and human rights.

Leaders from the Muslim, Jewish and Catholic faiths will take part, as well as
the Missouri Immigrant and Refugee Advocates and the National Farm Worker
Ministry.

LOAD-DATE: May 4, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                  Copyright 2010 St. Louis Post-Dispatch, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              10 of 137 DOCUMENTS


                       St. Louis Post-Dispatch (Missouri)

                             May 13, 2010 Thursday
                                 THIRD EDITION

Most in U.S. back new law in Arizona, 2 new polls reveal Most also favor strong
immigration laws for their states.

BYLINE: From news services

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. A6

LENGTH: 446 words

DATELINE: 0


WASHINGTON - A strong majority of Americans support Arizona's controversial new
immigration law and would back similar laws in their own states, according to
two polls released Wednesday.

Sixty-one percent of Americans - and 64 percent of registered voters - said they
favored the law, under which local law enforcement officers are directed to
check people's immigration status if they suspect them of being in the country
illegally. Those results came in a survey of 1,016 adults conducted Thursday
through Sunday in a McClatchy-Ipsos poll.

A separate Pew Research Center poll found that 73 percent of Americans approve
of requiring people to verify their legal status and two-thirds support police
detaining people who can't. Pew's survey of 994 adults also was conducted
Thursday through Sunday.

President Barack Obama has called the Arizona law misguided and his Justice
Department is considering a lawsuit to block it.

But the Pew survey found that 54 percent disapprove of Obama's handling of
immigration policy, 21 percent aren't sure and only 25 percent approve.

Congress has been considering legislation that would pair tougher border
enforcement, which is universally popular, with a path to citizenship for
immigrants who are here illegally.

But congressional incumbents are facing a difficult election this year already,
with voter displeasure over the health care bill and the bailout to big
business. Immigration is a third issue that could provoke anger.

McCLATCHY POLL

Among Democrats - While the Democratic Party generally is regarded as more
sympathetic to illegal immigrants' plights, 46 percent of Democrats said they
favored the law for Arizona and 49 percent said they'd favor a similar law in
their own states.

Among Republicans - More than eight in 10 favor the law.

Among independents - About 54 percent favor the law.

In addition - About 69 percent of Americans said they wouldn't mind if police
officers stopped them to ask for proof of their citizenship or legal rights to
be in the country; about 29 percent would mind, considering it a violation of
their rights; and about 3 percent were unsure.

Overall - Almost two-thirds of Americans said illegal immigration was a real
problem that hurt the country; they were evenly split as to whether the jobs
illegal immigrants take are ones that Americans don't want.

PEW CENTER POLL

Overall - About 59 percent approve of the Arizona law, 32 percent oppose.

Verifying citizenship - About 73 percent approve of it, 23 disapprove.

Detaining those who can't - About 67 percent are in favor, 29 percent opposed.

People younger than 30 - About 45 percent approve of the Arizona law.

People 65 and older - Three-fourths approve.

LOAD-DATE: May 14, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC:  Associated Press Immigrant rights activists and community leaders
engage in nonviolent civil disobedience last week in Los Angeles to protest
Arizona's new immigration enforcement law.

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                  Copyright 2010 St. Louis Post-Dispatch, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              11 of 137 DOCUMENTS


                       St. Louis Post-Dispatch (Missouri)

                             May 30, 2009 Saturday
                                 THIRD EDITION

Chevys owner pays $150,000 in illegal immigration case Restaurant company pleads
guilty of knowingly employing at least 25 undocumented workers. PUBLIC SAFETY

BYLINE: BY ROBERT PATRICK o rpatrick@post-dispatch.com > 314-621-5154

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. A3

LENGTH: 453 words

DATELINE: 0


ST. LOUIS - The lawyer had an attractive offer for restaurant owners nationwide:
a seminar, free to owners, that would resolve any immigration problems that
their employees had.

Unfortunately for one restaurant chain here, it was a scam, and its
participation resulted in a loss of $150,000 and a federal criminal charge of
knowingly and intentionally employing unauthorized immigrants.

T&J Restaurants LLC on Friday pleaded guilty to that misdemeanor charge and
agreed to forfeit $75,000 to the Department of Homeland Security and pay a
$75,000 fine. T&J owns nine Chevys Fresh Mex restaurants and one Chevys Express
in the St. Louis area.

T&J's road to federal court began before January 2005, when it was approached by
a California law firm, Assistant U.S. Attorney John Bodenhausen said in court.

T&J lawyer Gil Sison told U.S. Magistrate Judge Thomas Mummert that the firm
peddled its services to chain restaurants, saying, "If you have some
undocumented workers, we can make them legal."

The seminar was paid for by employees and conducted in Spanish, T&J majority
owner John Whicker said in an interview outside the courtroom, so he said he
never knew what employees were being told. But the company eventually found out
that it was a scam, and had a lawyer try to get employees' money back.

That effort succeeded, but the company did not terminate the undocumented
employees until February 2008, Bodenhausen said. The company should have known
that the employees were illegal through their participation in the program, he
said.

Sison told Mummert that T&J was simply following the advice of its lawyer at the
time, who told them to retain the employees so that they could be paid back.

Sison and Whicker said that the company attempted to verify all employees'
immigration status with dates of birth and Social Security numbers. The company
is now participating with the E-Verify program, a Web-based system that the
government says is the "best means available for determining employment
eligibility of new hires and the validity of their Social Security numbers."

T&J employed at least 25 undocumented workers. A specific number was not
available.

Lawyers would not identify the California law firm. No lawsuits or attorney
disciplinary records could be located that would shed light on the lawyer's
name. Federal officials declined to comment on the progress of any investigation
into the firm.

In court, Mummert said it was the first time that an employer had been in his
court on immigration charges. Mummert said it was easy to go after illegal
immigrants, but it took more time and effort to pursue companies that employ
them. He said he appreciated the government's efforts to pursue "the other half
of the crime."

LOAD-DATE: May 31, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                  Copyright 2009 St. Louis Post-Dispatch, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              12 of 137 DOCUMENTS


                       St. Louis Post-Dispatch (Missouri)

                            January 1, 2009 Thursday
                                 FIRST EDITION

New laws target illegal workers Missouri pushes employers to check employee
immigration status. WHAT'S NEW ON THE LAW BOOKS

BYLINE: By Chris Blank The Associated Press

SECTION: METRO; Pg. B2

LENGTH: 1171 words


JEFFERSON CITY - Missouri businesses are about to get a shove toward a federal
database for screening newly hired employees for illegal immigrants. And cities
will risk getting punished if they become havens for illegal immigrants.

Some new laws taking effect today are part of a broad effort by Missouri
lawmakers to crack down on illegal immigrants and those who employ them.

Starting in 2009, public employers - including state and local governments -
must use the E-Verify database that searches records from the Social Security
Administration and the Department of Homeland Security to determine whether
someone can work.

Private businesses won't have to use the database unless they have a government
contract worth more than $5,000, receive state loans or tax breaks, or have been
caught hiring an illegal immigrant.

But even those that don't have to use E-Verify will have a big incentive to
start. Employers caught "knowingly" hiring an illegal immigrant risk losing
business licenses, unless they had used E-Verify to screen their new hires.

Kris Kobach, a University of Missouri-Kansas City law professor who helped draft
the law, said lawmakers showed foresight in going after illegal immigrants at
cusp of the recession.

Federal statistics released in December show the state's unemployment rate hit
6.7 percent in November.

"It's going to have a very significant impact in protecting jobs for U.S.
citizens and jobs for legal aliens during this time of high unemployment," said
Kobach, who also was a top immigration adviser to former U.S. Attorney General
John Ashcroft. "The state Legislature's timing was perfect."

But employers aren't so enamored.

The immigration provisions were a sticking point between a Legislature ready to
levy big punishments and a business community worried about the fallout. Trent
Summers, with the Missouri Chamber of Commerce and Industry, said some
businesses are still worried what the law is going to require.

"I don't think it's overly burdensome, but we would like to see the employer
requirement be as little as possible," said Summers, the chamber's director of
environmental and regulatory affairs. "We don't think employers should be in the
position of acting as immigration agents."

The Washington-based Pew Hispanic Center estimates from census data that 35,000
to 65,000 illegal immigrants live in Missouri. Missouri is projected to have
less than 1 percent of the nation's 12 million illegal immigrants.

About a dozen states require that some employers use E-Verify, with Arizona and
Mississippi going the furthest in mandating it for all.

The federal database was created in 1996 as an electronic way for determining
whether employees can work in the U.S. But misspelled names, last names entered
as middle names and outdated information have led to mistakes.

Advocates for immigrants also contend employer misuse of the database has made
legal immigrants unwilling to work in states pushing for the use of E-Verify,
hurting those economies. Businesses aren't supposed to use the database to
screen job applicants or check their existing work forces.

Jennifer Rafanan, the executive director for Missouri Immigrant and Refugee
Advocates, said that companies have misapplied E-Verify to discriminate and to
racially profile.

"Programs like this can be misused, and the privacy issues are sort of massive
in terms of which employers use the system and how they use it," Rafanan said.

According to the federal Government Accountability Office, about 92 percent of
all E-Verify checks are confirmed within seconds. About 7 percent cannot be
immediately confirmed by the Social Security databases, and about 1 percent
can't be confirmed by the U.S. Citizenship and Immigration Services agency.

Besides E-Verify requirements, the immigration law also blocks state grants from
going to any Missouri city that adopts "sanctuary" policies and refuses to
cooperate with immigration authorities.

A "sanctuary policy" is an order or ordinance that limits cooperation with
federal immigration authorities, bars immigration status verification or
declares illegal immigrants can live within the city.

To enforce the ban, a lawmaker can ask the attorney general's office to
determine whether a town is a sanctuary city before money is awarded or after a
Missouri resident complains.

It's unclear if any municipalities would be affected, but lawmakers have
speculated it could entangle Kansas City. Kobach said some suspect the Kansas
City Police Department could have informal sanctuary policies and that he
"wouldn't be surprised" if a complaint is filed against the municipality.

But Rafanan, who said Missouri has no sanctuary cities, said the Kansas City
Police Department's policies already have been examined by critics.

Incoming Missouri Attorney General Chris Koster, who sponsored similar
immigration legislation while in the Senate, said he was not aware of anyone
planning to accuse a Missouri city of using sanctuary policies.

When asked if he thinks Kansas City is a sanctuary city, Koster said his opinion
wouldn't affect the office's legal decision.

"It is an objective question that would have to be answered through a more
researched inquiry," Koster said. "It's not a subjective standard."

---

MISSOURI LAWS THAT TAKE EFFECT TODAY

Several new Missouri laws take effect today. Here's a look at some of them:

IMMIGRATION CHECKS

All public employers and those with private businesses with government contracts
worth more than $5,000, receiving state loans or getting tax breaks must use the
federal E-Verify database to screen new hires. Employers caught "knowingly"
hiring an illegal immigrant risk losing their business licenses, unless they
used E-Verify.

SANCTUARY CITIES

Cities are ineligible for state grants if they adopt an order or ordinance that
limits cooperation with federal immigration authorities, bars immigration status
verification or declares illegal immigrants can live within the city.

MINIMUM WAGE

Missouri's minimum hourly pay goes up by 40 cents to $7.05, or about 6 percent.
A 2006 ballot measure requires the minimum wage to increase with the national
Consumer Price Index.

SOCIAL SECURITY

Half of Social Security and certain pension and retirement benefits are exempt
from state income taxes up to a total income of $85,000 for individuals and
$100,000 for couples. The tax break covers disability benefits for everyone and
retirement money for those who are at least 62 years old.

BEEF PRODUCERS

Beef producers and ranchers will be eligible for a tax credit to hold onto their
cattle longer. The bill gives a tax break to farmers who sell their cattle
later, after the animals weigh 450 pounds, which is about when they have been
weaned from milk. It's designed to help develop a cattle feeding industry in
Missouri that generally has centered farther west.

HOME ENERGY

Homeowners can deduct from their taxes the full cost of audits to determine the
energy efficiency of their residence. The reviews must be conducted by an
auditor certified by the Department of Natural Resources.

LOAD-DATE: January 2, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES:  what's new on the law books

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                  Copyright 2009 St. Louis Post-Dispatch, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              13 of 137 DOCUMENTS


                       St. Louis Post-Dispatch (Missouri)

                             March 31, 2009 Tuesday
                                 THIRD EDITION

Ease census fears, Clay urges He wants illegal immigration raids halted next
year so all residents will participate in population count.

BYLINE: From News Services

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. A7

LENGTH: 315 words

DATELINE: 0


WASHINGTON - Rep. William Lacy Clay, D-Mo., said Monday that he wanted the
government to halt immigration raids next year to ensure an accurate count in
the 2010 census.

Speaking at a Census Bureau conference being held one year before Census Day
2010, Clay and Commerce Secretary Gary Locke tried to allay fears among
Hispanics and Asians in areas where immigrants often mistake census workers for
tax collectors or law enforcement officials.

Clay went a step further, urging the partnership groups, ranging from the
AFL-CIO and Coca-Cola to the NAACP and Vote Latino, to expose any "sinister
tricks" to dissuade immigrants from completing their census forms.

There are nearly 12 million illegal immigrants in the United States, many of
them clustered in California, New York, Florida and Texas, which stand to either
lose House seats or gain fewer seats depending on whether their Hispanic
residents are fully counted.

Clay pointed out that immigration officials halted raids during the 2000 census.

"It think it should be repeated to tamp down on any fears the immigrant
population might have on certain raids, whether they are here legally or not,"
said Clay, who heads the House subcommittee overseeing the census. "They don't
want that hanging over them."

In 2000, immigration officials informally agreed, at the request of the Census
Bureau, to not conduct large-scale immigration raids. The bureau asked the
Homeland Security Department two years ago to hold off again in 2010, but was
rejected by the administration of President George W. Bush, which said it would
continue to enforce federal laws.

At the conference on Monday, according to the Washington Post, Clay said, "We
need to know what's happening in your communities and how we can help you. We
will also depend on you to expose any attempts to misinform or deceive the
public by those who are attempting to suppress the count."

LOAD-DATE: March 31, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                  Copyright 2009 St. Louis Post-Dispatch, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              14 of 137 DOCUMENTS


                       St. Louis Post-Dispatch (Missouri)

                             April 13, 2009 Monday
                                 THIRD EDITION

Illegally detained in U.S. Citizens sometimes are snagged in enforcement of
immigration laws SOCIAL JUSTICE

BYLINE: By SUZANNE GAMBOA o The Associated Press

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. A7

LENGTH: 585 words

DATELINE: 0


Pedro Guzman, 31, a native of Los Angeles, has been an American citizen all his
life. Yet in 2007, Guzman - in jail for a misdemeanor, mentally ill and never
able to read or write - signed a waiver agreeing to leave the country without a
hearing and was deported to Mexico as an illegal immigrant.

For almost three months, Guzman slept in the streets, bathed in filthy rivers
and ate out of trash cans while his mother scoured the city of Tijuana, its
hospitals and morgues, clutching his photo in her hand. He was finally found
trying to cross the border at Calexico, 100 miles away.

In a drive to crack down on illegal immigrants, the United States has locked up
or thrown out dozens, probably many more, of its own citizens over the past
eight years. An AP investigation has documented 55 such cases, on the basis of
interviews, lawsuits and documents obtained under the Freedom of Information
Act. These citizens are detained for anything from a day to five years.
Immigration lawyers say there are actually hundreds of such cases.

It is illegal to deport U.S. citizens or detain them for immigration violations.
Yet citizens still end up in detention because the system is overwhelmed,
acknowledged Victor Cerda, who left Immigration and Customs Enforcement in 2005
after overseeing the system. The number of detentions overall is expected to
rise by about 17 percent this year to more than 400,000, putting a severe strain
on the enforcement network and legal system.

The result is the detention of citizens with the fewest resources: the mentally
ill, minorities, the poor, children and those with outstanding criminal
warrants, ranging from unpaid traffic tickets to failure to show up for
probation hearings. Most at risk are Hispanics, who made up the majority of the
cases the AP found.

Larger Problem

"The more the system becomes confused, the more U.S. citizens will be wrongfully
detained and wrongfully removed," said Bruce Einhorn, a retired immigration
judge who now teaches at Pepperdine Law School.

He added that agents investigated any claims to U.S. citizenship, but they often
turned out to be false. He said that U.S. citizens sometimes claim to be
foreign-born, and that immigration officials never knowingly hold someone they
can "definitively" determine is a citizen.

It's impossible to know exactly how many citizens have been detained or deported
because nobody keeps track. Kara Hartzler, an attorney at the Florence Immigrant
and Refugee Rights Project in Arizona, testified at a U.S. House hearing last
year that her group alone sees 40 to 50 jailings a month of people with
potentially valid claims to citizenship.

The nonprofit Vera Institute for Justice found 322 people with citizenship
claims in 13 immigration prisons in 2007, up from 129 the year before. That
number does not include possible citizens in the nation's more than 300 other
immigration prisons.

What is clear is that immigration detentions have soared. One reason is a
heightened concern for security that arose out of the Sept. 11, 2001, terrorist
attacks. Another is a political climate that encouraged a tough stance on
illegal immigration.

After 2003, the nation launched several programs to detain more immigrants,
including one that called on local police and sheriffs for help. Before 2007,
just seven state and local law enforcement agencies worked with immigration. By
last November, more than 950 officers from 23 states had attended a four-week
program on how to root out and jail suspected illegal immigrants.

LOAD-DATE: April 14, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC:  Photo by Ted S. Warren o The Associated Press  Detainees kill time at
the Northwest Detention Center in Tacoma, Wash., in a photo from last year. The
facility is for people whose immigration status is in question or who are
waiting for deportation or deportation hearings.

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                  Copyright 2009 St. Louis Post-Dispatch, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              15 of 137 DOCUMENTS


                       St. Louis Post-Dispatch (Missouri)

                             June 6, 2009 Saturday
                                 THIRD EDITION

Court upholds Valley Park ordinance on immigration Law allows city to suspend
permits of businesses that hire illegal immigrants, but mayor says it won't be
enforced.

BYLINE: BY STEPHEN DEERE o sdeere@post-dispatch.com > 314-340-8116

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. A4

LENGTH: 220 words

DATELINE: 0


VALLEY PARK - After a lengthy and costly legal battle, the U.S. 8th Circuit
Court of Appeals upheld an ordinance on Friday that allowed the city to suspend
the permits of businesses that hire illegal immigrants.

The attorney who represented the city said the ruling was significant because it
put state law targeting illegal immigrants on firm legal ground.

But the current mayor of Valley Park said the decision came at a high price and
the city wouldn't even enforce the ordinance.

"I didn't jump up and down," Mayor Grant Young said. "I hope it's a page we can
turn and move on."

In 2006, the city made headlines after it passed the ordinance targeting
businesses, along with another ordinance that prohibited landlords from renting
to illegal immigrants, which the city eventually repealed.

Last year, a federal judge ruled the city could penalize businesses for hiring
illegal immigrants, but attorneys for the ACLU appealed the decision. The case
cost the city roughly $250,000 and former Mayor Jeffery Whitteaker, who
championed the ordinance, was voted out of office.

Kris Kobach, who represented the city, said the decision was significant because
a new state law that prohibits hiring illegal immigrants is virtually identical
to the city ordinance.

"This is now established law in the state of Missouri," Kobach said.

LOAD-DATE: June 7, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                  Copyright 2009 St. Louis Post-Dispatch, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              16 of 137 DOCUMENTS


                       St. Louis Post-Dispatch (Missouri)

                            October 19, 2009 Monday
                                 THIRD EDITION

The longer arm of the law Missouri Highway Patrol is among agencies agreeing to
revised U.S. rules covering immigration checks on those arrested.

BYLINE: By Tony Messenger o tmessenger@post-dispatch.com

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. A1

LENGTH: 881 words

DATELINE: 0


JEFFERSON CITY - Politicians were turning up the heat on undocumented workers in
the summer of 2007. The issue dominated the airwaves From Jefferson City to
Washington, and elected officials fell over themselves trying to outdo their
opponents in proving they were tough on illegal immigration.

That August, then-Gov. Matt Blunt ordered members of the Missouri Highway Patrol
to check the immigration status of each person arrested by troopers. It was the
sort of move emblematic of the national debate, with state officials taking
action while Congress punted on comprehensive immigration reform.

Two years later, the immigration issue has been put on the back burner while
politicians debate health care, cap-and-trade and economic uncertainty. But
without fanfare last week, the Missouri Highway Patrol joined 66 other agencies
nationwide in signing new agreements with the Department of Homeland Security
continuing the process that was originally born out of political frustration.

The agreements - called 287(g) - still call for some local law enforcement
officials to be trained as immigration officers. Those officers - about 18 state
troopers in Missouri - can begin deportation proceedings after determining an
arrest suspect is in the country illegally.

But in reaction to criticism from Hispanic activists and the federal Government
Accountability Office, changes have been made to the agreements that are
intended to discourage racial profiling.

Homeland Security officials earlier this year promised the changes to the local
law enforcement agreements after the GAO criticized the lack of internal
controls and guidelines that would protect against abuses.

"The program under President Bush was a free-for-all," said Lynn Tramonte,
deputy director of America's Voice, an organization pushing for comprehensive
immigration reform. "If you're going to pull somebody over for a broken
taillight and then check their immigration status, that's problematic."

In announcing the new agreements, which have been standardized across the
nation, Homeland Security Director Janet Napolitano said that the agreements
should encourage law enforcement agencies to focus on serious criminals and to
discourage profiling.

"These new agreements promote public safety by prioritizing the identification
and removal of dangerous criminal aliens and ensure consistency and stronger
federal oversight of state and local immigration law enforcement efforts across
the nation," she said.

The key change to the new agreement is that agencies that sign on must agree to
follow through with charges filed against anybody they arrest who is in the
country illegally. Other changes include provisions that bind local law
enforcement officials to federal civil rights laws and prioritizing levels of
criminal offense so the program focuses on those who might be a danger to the
community, such as murderers or rapists. The deportation process doesn't
actually begin until the person has been convicted of the original charge
against him or her and has served the sentence.

No law enforcement agency in Illinois has a 287(g) agreement with the federal
government. Tennessee and Oklahoma are the only states that border Missouri to
have one.

In Missouri, the new rule changes are no big deal, says Highway Patrol Capt. Tim
Hull.

"Nothing's really changing for us," Hull said. "We only check immigration status
when we present somebody for incarceration on another charge. Some of the other
areas in the country are going to have to adopt the policies we already had in
place."

Since 2007, the Missouri Highway Patrol has begun deportation proceedings for
457 people suspected of being in the country illegally, Hull said.

Missouri lawmakers put Blunt's original executive order into law in a bill
passed in 2008 pushed by Sen. Scott Rupp, R-Wentzville. Rupp said lawmakers were
careful to make sure that the patrol didn't take advantage of Hispanics but used
the tool to target criminals who happen to be in the country illegally.

"We were supportive of controls originally because we didn't want to encourage
any type of profiling," Rupp said.

He said he was pleased that Missouri is continuing its arrangement to work with
the federal government to crack down on illegal immigration.

Jorge Riopedre, the president of the St. Louis area Hispanic Chamber of
Commerce, said his organization still opposes the agreements in principle
because of the use of local law enforcement officers as federal agents.

But, Riopedre said, "any changes that discourage racial profiling and put the
focus on serious felonies, that's a step in the right direction."

Among the agencies that have been criticized for their use of the 287(g)
agreements for the wrong purposes is the Maricopa County Sheriff's Department in
Arizona run by famed Sheriff Joe Arpaio.

Hispanic activists have alleged in a variety of lawsuits that Arpaio has used
the new authority improperly, targeting legal and illegal immigrants. Now those
activists are upset that the federal government has renewed its agreement - with
the new controls - with Arpaio.

Across the country, six law enforcement agencies that had agreements under the
old system decided not to sign the new ones. Among those not signing are the
Houston police and two sheriff's departments in Florida.

LOAD-DATE: October 20, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                  Copyright 2009 St. Louis Post-Dispatch, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              17 of 137 DOCUMENTS


                       St. Louis Post-Dispatch (Missouri)

                           December 12, 2009 Saturday
                                 THIRD EDITION

Nation digest

BYLINE: From news services

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. A8

LENGTH: 414 words

DATELINE: 0


280 illegal immigrants with criminal records arrested

Immigration agents arrested 280 people in California in their biggest push yet
to round up suspected illegal immigrants with criminal records, authorities said
Friday. More than 400 agents and local law enforcement officers fanned out
across the state in the three-day search led by Immigration and Customs
Enforcement.

Durbin encouraged by leaked memo - Sen. Richard Durbin, D-Ill., said a draft
memo leaked to conservative website Big Government is an encouraging sign that
the government intends to transfer Guantanamo Bay detainees to Thomson
Correctional Center in Illinois. They said no final decision has been made, but
the memo is an encouraging development.

Congress moving on Asian carp - Members of Congress are pushing for emergency
action to prevent voracious Asian carp from invading the Great Lakes and
damaging their $7 billion fishery. Sen. Kirsten Gillibrand, D-N.Y., urged the
U.S. Army Corps of Engineers on Friday to close shipping locks on a waterway
south of Chicago that could provide a pathway for the carp to reach Lake
Michigan.

Side benefits found for Crestor - Federal scientists say AstraZeneca's
cholesterol pill Crestor lowers the risk of heart attack, death and stroke in
patients without a history of heart disease, though some safety concerns remain.
In documents posted online Friday, the Food and Drug Administration cites the
findings of AstraZeneca's study released last November.

Woman, 98, accused of killing 100-year-old - A 98-year-old woman was indicted on
a second-degree murder charge that alleges she strangled her 100-year-old
roommate in a nursing home in New Bedford, Mass. Laura Lundquist had complained
that Elizabeth Barrow was getting too many visitors.

Ninth file clerk pleads guilty - A State Department filing clerk pleaded guilty
of illegally viewing passport files of celebrities, the ninth current or former
employee of the agency to admit to snooping. Debra Sue Brown, 47, of Oxon Hill,
Md., is scheduled to be sentenced March 23.

Not guilty pleas in Anna Nicole case - Anna Nicole Smith's two doctors and her
lawyer-boyfriend have pleaded not guilty to drug conspiracy charges, and a judge
has refused to suspend the physicians' medical licenses. Dr. Sandeep Kapoor, Dr.
Khristine Eroshevich and Howard K. Stern entered their pleas in Los Angeles.

Bo gets his own stocking - Bo, the White House dog, has his very own Christmas
stocking.

- Full stories, stltoday.com/TheWire/Nation

LOAD-DATE: December 15, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: BRIEF

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                  Copyright 2009 St. Louis Post-Dispatch, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              18 of 137 DOCUMENTS


                       St. Louis Post-Dispatch (Missouri)

                           December 12, 2009 Saturday
                                 FIRST EDITION

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. A8

LENGTH: 1373 words


280 illegal immigrants with criminal records arrested Immigration agents
arrested 280 people in California in their biggest push yet to round up
suspected illegal immigrants with criminal records, authorities said Friday.
More than 400 agents and local law enforcement officers fanned out across the
state in the three-day search led by Immigration and Customs Enforcement. Durbin
encouraged by leaked memo o Sen. Richard Durbin, D-Ill., said a draft memo
leaked to conservative website Big Government is an encouraging sign that the
government intends to transfer Guantanamo Bay detainees to Thomson Correctional
Center in Illinois. They said no final decision has been made, but the memo is
an encouraging development.

Congress moving on Asian carp o Members of Congress are pushing for emergency
action to prevent voracious Asian carp from invading the Great Lakes and
damaging their $7 billion fishery. Sen. Kirsten Gillibrand, D-N.Y., urged the
U.S. Army Corps of Engineers on Friday to close shipping locks on a waterway
south of Chicago that could provide a pathway for the carp to reach Lake
Michigan. Side benefits found for Crestor o Federal scientists say AstraZeneca's
cholesterol pill Crestor lowers the risk of heart attack, death and stroke in
patients without a history of heart disease, though some safety concerns remain.
In documents posted online Friday, the Food and Drug Administration cites the
findings of AstraZeneca's study released last November. Woman, 98, accused of
killing 100- year-old o A 98-year-old woman was indicted on a second-degree
murder charge that alleges she strangled her 100-year-old roommate in a nursing
home in New Bedford, Mass. Laura Lundquist had complained that Elizabeth Barrow
was getting too many visitors. Ninth fi l e clerk pleads guilty o A State
Department filing clerk pleaded guilty of illegally viewing passport fi l es of
celebrities, the ninth current or former employee of the agency to admit to
snooping. Debra Sue Brown, 47, of Oxon Hill, Md., is scheduled to be sentenced
March 23. Not guilty pleas in Anna Nicole case o Anna Nicole Smith's two doctors
and her lawyer-boyfriend have pleaded not guilty to drug conspiracy charges, and
a judge has refused to suspend the physicians' medical licenses. Dr. Sandeep
Kapoor, Dr. Khristine Eroshevich and Howard K. Stern entered their pleas in Los
Angeles. Bo gets his own stocking o Bo, the White House dog, has his very own
Christmas stocking. From news services o Full stories, stltoday.co ire/ Nation
A8 o ST. LOUIS POST- D ISPATCH M 1 o SATURDAY o 12.12.2009 For a armer Holiday
All Custom Fireplace Doors 10% OFF Ask about our discontinued "close-out" loor
model units at substantial SAVINGS 14224 Manchester Rd. Manchester, MO 63011 Ph
636-394-6100 Mon - Sat 10-6 Sun 12-5 FIRESIDE HEARTH & GRILL CENTER GAS
APPLIANCE SERVICE LLC 2390 Centerline Industrial Dr. St. Louis, MO 63146 Ph
314-567-6260 Mon - Fri 8-6 Sat 10-2 HY141 Manchester Rd. N 1/4 mi. East of 141 N
Limited Time Offer Installation Services Available Evening Series Highland Oak
Andiron Sets Starting at $269 Gifts for the BBQ Fan in your Family o Tool Sets o
Smoking oods o Award inning Rubs & Sauces o Gas Log Sets o Direct Vent
Fireplaces o Direct Vent Stoves o Vent Free Fireplaces o Electric Fireplaces 30%
OFF All Remaining in-stock ireplace tools, screens and accessories Fri. Dec. 11,
10 a.m.-7 p.m.o Sat., Dec. 12, 9 a.m.-6 p.m. o Sun., Dec. 13, Noon-6 p.m. o
TREADMILLS o ELLIPTICALS o HOME GYMS o TREADMILLS o ELLIPTICALS o HOME GYMS o o
TREADMILLS o ELLIPTICALS o HOME GYMS o TREADMILLS o ELLIPTICALS o HOME GYMS o
IT'S A FITNESS ONDERLAND LAST 2 DAYS! LAST 2 DAYS! Shop Early For Guaranteed
Christmas delivery! FREE FINANCING FOR 12 MONTHS HUGE CASH SAVINGS!!! Treadmills
Ellipticals Stationary Bikes Home Gyms starting at starting at starting at
starting at $699! $999! $299! $999! STEPPERS o FREEEIGHTS o TREADMILLS o
ELLIPTICALS o HOMEGYMS o TREADMILLS o STEPPERS o FREEEIGHTS o TREADMILLS o
ELLIPTICALS o HOMEGYMS o TREADMILLS 314-909-0088 12008 Manchester Rd. o Des
Peres, MO (1/2 mile east of I-270) desperes@fitness-showcase.com 636-536-3996 60
THF Blvd. o Chesterfield, MO Chesterfield Commons East Target Center
chesterfield@fitness-showcase.com www.fitness-showcase.com Check out our New
Re-Designed ebsite 314-989-9905 11737 Olive Blvd. o Creve Coeur, MO (1/4 mile
east of I-270. Next to Border's) crevecoeur@fitness-showcase.com 618-206-2399
3270 Green Mount Dr. o Shiloh, IL In Dierberg's Green Mount Crossing
shiloh@fitness-showcase.com Store Hours Mon-Fri 10am-7pm o Sat 10am-5pm o Sun
Noon-5pm INSPIRE Inspire gyms o 4 models to choose from o Space saving designs o
Functional training design o Lifetime arranty SAVE $800-$1,400! TRUE ESXt
ELLIPTICAL PRECOR 5.25 EFX o Top of the line model o Touch Screen Technology o
Total Body Elliptical o 10 Year arranty STARTING AT $299! TRUE PS 800 TREADMILL
o In our 25th Year! o Trained itness consultants o Expert delivery & set-up! o
In-house service Dept.! o Authorized Dealer for TRUE o Authorized PRECOR® Dealer
o Exclusive Inspire Fitness Dealer o Helping Thousands of Customers Reach Their
Fitness Goals! o 4 HP D.C. Motor o TRUE patented soft system o Orthopedic Belt o
10 Year arranty o Upper & Lower Body o Crossramp for Variable Stride o 10 Year
arranty SAVE $700! SAVE $500! SAVE $1,000! 4 Models To Choose From OR NATION
States urged to provide share of stimulus pie for minorities WASHINGTON o Amid
mounting criti- cism that minorities, women and low-in- come workers are missing
out on business opportunities and jobs under the stimu- lus bill, the
administration of President Barack Obama is urging the nation's gov- ernors to
work harder to ensure that these groups participate fully in state transpor-
tation projects that receive federal fund- ing. The issue of equity has cast a
cloud over the American Reinvestment and Recovery Act in recent weeks as various
reports ap- pear to confi r m what minority advocates and some economists have
been saying: that the fruits of the stimulus bill may not be reaching groups who
are sufering the most in the worst recession in decades. While the unemployment
rate is 9.3 percent for whites, the jobless rate for blacks is 15.6 percent and
12.7 percent for Hispanics. Nationally, it's 10 percent. The Congressional Black
Caucus has criticized Obama for not providing more direct assistance to
African-Americans during the recession. o More, stltoday.co ire/Nation BY TONY
PUGH o McClatchy Newspapers Sanfords call it quits Wife of South Carolina
governor formally files for divorce. COLUMBIA, S.C. o South Carolina first lady
Jenny Sanford issued a statement Fri- day saying she is filing for divorce from
Gov. Mark Sanford. In a two-page filing made Friday in Charleston County, S.C.,
family court, Jenny Sanford asked for a di- vorce on grounds of adultery. The
news comes the same week as Mark Sanford was censured but spared impeach- ment
by a House subcommittee investigat- ing allegations that Sanford misused cam-
paign money, state planes and other assets. Those allegations came to light
after the governor secretly left the state for fi ve days in June to visit his
Argentine lover. In a mid-day statement Friday, Mark Sanford responded to his
estranged wife's announcement by saying: "While it is not the course I would
have hoped for, or would choose, I want to take full responsibility for the
moral failure that led us to this tragic point. Jenny is a great person, and has
been a remarkable wife, mother and first lady. She has been more than gracious
these last six months and gone above and beyond in her patience and commitment
to put the needs of others in front of her own. While our family structure may
change, I know that we will both work earnestly to be the best mom and dad we
can be to four of the fi n est boys on earth." In her court filing, Jenny
Sanford said "the defendant has engaged in a sexual re- lationship with a woman
other than the plaintif (Jenny Sanford). The plaintif has not condoned that
relationship and is in- formed and believes that she is entitled to a divorce
... on ground of adultery. " o Statements, additional coverage, stltoday. com
ire/Nation McCLATCHY NEWSPAPERS DIGEST

LOAD-DATE: December 13, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                  Copyright 2009 St. Louis Post-Dispatch, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              19 of 137 DOCUMENTS


                       St. Louis Post-Dispatch (Missouri)

                           December 12, 2009 Saturday
                                 FIRST EDITION

nation digest

BYLINE: From news services

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. A8

LENGTH: 414 words

DATELINE: 0


280 illegal immigrants with criminal records arrested

Immigration agents arrested 280 people in California in their biggest push yet
to round up suspected illegal immigrants with criminal records, authorities said
Friday. More than 400 agents and local law enforcement officers fanned out
across the state in the three-day search led by Immigration and Customs
Enforcement.

Durbin encouraged by leaked memo - Sen. Richard Durbin, D-Ill., said a draft
memo leaked to conservative website Big Government is an encouraging sign that
the government intends to transfer Guantanamo Bay detainees to Thomson
Correctional Center in Illinois. They said no final decision has been made, but
the memo is an encouraging development.

Congress moving on Asian carp - Members of Congress are pushing for emergency
action to prevent voracious Asian carp from invading the Great Lakes and
damaging their $7 billion fishery. Sen. Kirsten Gillibrand, D-N.Y., urged the
U.S. Army Corps of Engineers on Friday to close shipping locks on a waterway
south of Chicago that could provide a pathway for the carp to reach Lake
Michigan.

Side benefits found for Crestor - Federal scientists say AstraZeneca's
cholesterol pill Crestor lowers the risk of heart attack, death and stroke in
patients without a history of heart disease, though some safety concerns remain.
In documents posted online Friday, the Food and Drug Administration cites the
findings of AstraZeneca's study released last November.

Woman, 98, accused of killing 100-year-old - A 98-year-old woman was indicted on
a second-degree murder charge that alleges she strangled her 100-year-old
roommate in a nursing home in New Bedford, Mass. Laura Lundquist had complained
that Elizabeth Barrow was getting too many visitors.

Ninth file clerk pleads guilty - A State Department filing clerk pleaded guilty
of illegally viewing passport files of celebrities, the ninth current or former
employee of the agency to admit to snooping. Debra Sue Brown, 47, of Oxon Hill,
Md., is scheduled to be sentenced March 23.

Not guilty pleas in Anna Nicole case - Anna Nicole Smith's two doctors and her
lawyer-boyfriend have pleaded not guilty to drug conspiracy charges, and a judge
has refused to suspend the physicians' medical licenses. Dr. Sandeep Kapoor, Dr.
Khristine Eroshevich and Howard K. Stern entered their pleas in Los Angeles.

Bo gets his own stocking - Bo, the White House dog, has his very own Christmas
stocking.

- Full stories, stltoday.com/TheWire/Nation

LOAD-DATE: December 13, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: BRIEF

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                  Copyright 2009 St. Louis Post-Dispatch, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              20 of 137 DOCUMENTS


                       St. Louis Post-Dispatch (Missouri)

                          December 23, 2009 Wednesday
                                 THIRD EDITION

Polarized politics Our view o Immigration reform probably a dress rehearsal in
2010.

SECTION: EDITORIAL; Pg. A14

LENGTH: 623 words

DATELINE: 0


"Distance has not discouraged illegal immigration to the United States from all
around the globe. The problem of illegal immigration should not, therefore, be
seen as a problem between the United States and its neighbors. Our objective is
only to establish a reasonable, fair, orderly, and secure system of immigration
into this country and not to discriminate in any way against particular nations
or people."

Thus spoke, on Nov. 6, 1986, not some squishy, soft-on-illegal immigration
Democrat, but President Ronald Reagan, the hero of modern conservatism.

The political aura surrounding immigration reform was dramatically different in
those days. The landmark Immigration Reform and Control Act of 1986 that Mr.
Reagan signed had bipartisan sponsorship from Sen. Alan Simpson, R-Wyo., and
Rep. Leo Mazzoli, D-Ky. It increased border enforcement and employer sanctions
against hiring undocumented workers. But also it legalized some undocumented
immigrants and established protections against workplace discrimination.

Such a tone of conciliation and bipartisanship will be sorely lacking next year
when immigration reform advocates attempt to renew the debate amid withering
political warfare on Capitol Hill. The timing makes prospects for change very
challenging, if not impossible.

Congress has no shortage of vexing problems that call for major reforms. High
unemployment during a wrenching recession, ongoing health care reform, global
climate change policy and financial market regulation will tap the time and
political capacity of lawmakers.

Immigration is an old problem with new surroundings. Homeland security and its
relationship to controlling borders and immigration have taken on new importance
since the terrorist attacks on Sept. 11, 2001.

Political polarization has led to an atmosphere of theatrical sound bites and
hyperbole from all sides. Vitriol toward proposed legislation that would allow
some undocumented immigrants to become legal will be intense.

Next year is an election year in Congress and will provide a very tough crucible
in which to create immigration reform, an incendiary topic even in normal times.
Now come immigration reform advocates who remind President Barack Obama of his
campaign pledges in 2008 and of his promises earlier this year to tackle the
emotional issue in 2010.

Earlier this month, Rep. Luis Gutierrez, D-Ill., with 87 co-sponsors, introduced
the Comprehensive Immigration Reform for America's Security and Prosperity Act
of 2009. The bill includes increased border security, enforcement and an
employment verification system for employers to screen new hires.

But the most potentially volatile aspect of the bill is that it opens a path
toward legal status for the some of the nation's 12 million undocumented
immigrants. It would protect their rights when they are detained and expand the
criteria for hiring temporary workers.

Billions of Homeland Security dollars have been channeled to the
now-consolidated U.S. Immigration and Customs Enforcement agency. ICE, as it is
known, has more personnel, technology and equipment. Yet dysfunction and
incompatible government systems continue to dog the handling of immigration
records and verifying a person's legal status to work.

Those problems are longstanding and affect millions of immigrant families, most
of whom are legal residents. They don't require an act of Congress to fix. They
require more will from the Obama administration.

But overall immigration reform is needed and could dovetail with efforts to
rescue the national economy from the ditch. It may be that other issues take
precedence next year; if so, Mr. Gutierrez' efforts will be a dress rehearsal
for 2011. But as the Gipper said, the issue is too important to be put off.

LOAD-DATE: December 23, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: EDITORIAL

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                  Copyright 2009 St. Louis Post-Dispatch, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              21 of 137 DOCUMENTS


                       St. Louis Post-Dispatch (Missouri)

                            April 24, 2010 Saturday
                                 FIRST EDITION

New Arizona law throws gauntlet on immigration Severity draws rebuke from Obama,
reignites battle over reform.

BYLINE: By RANDAL C. ARCHIBOLD New York Times

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. A1

LENGTH: 1001 words

DATELINE: 0


PHOENIX - Gov. Jan Brewer of Arizona signed the toughest illegal immigration
bill in the country into law on Friday, aimed at identifying, prosecuting and
deporting illegal immigrants. The governor's move unleashed immediate protests
and reignited the divisive battle over immigration reform nationally.

Even before she signed the bill at a 4:30 p.m. news conference, President Barack
Obama strongly criticized it.

Speaking at a naturalization ceremony for 24 active-duty service members in the
Rose Garden, he called for a federal overhaul of immigration laws - an overhaul
that congressional leaders signaled they were preparing to take up soon.

Saying the failure of officials in Washington to act on immigration would open
the door to "irresponsibility by others," he said the Arizona bill threatened
"to undermine basic notions of fairness that we cherish as Americans, as well as
the trust between police and our communities that is so crucial to keeping us
safe."

The law, which opponents and critics alike said was the broadest and strictest
immigration measure in the country in generations, would make the failure to
carry immigration documents a crime. It would also give the police broad power
to detain anyone suspected of being in the country illegally. Opponents have
decried it as an open invitation for harassment and discrimination against
Hispanics regardless of their citizenship status.

The political debate leading up to Brewer's decision and Obama's criticism of
the law - presidents very rarely weigh in on state legislation - underscored the
power of the immigration debate in states along the Mexican border. It presaged
the polarizing arguments that await the president and Congress as they take up
the issue nationally.

Brewer said the law "represents another tool for our state to use as we work to
solve a crisis we did not create and the federal government has refused to fix."

The law would take effect 90 days after the legislative session ends, or by
August. Court challenges are expected immediately.

Hispanics, not long ago courted by the Republican Party as a swing voting bloc,
in particular railed against the law as a recipe for racial and ethnic
profiling. "Governor Brewer caved to the radical fringe," said a statement by
the Mexican American Legal Defense and Educational Fund, predicting that the law
would create "a spiral of pervasive fear, community distrust, increased crime
and costly litigation, with nationwide repercussions."

The Catholic archbishop of Los Angeles called the authorities' ability to demand
documents Nazism. While police demands of documents are common on subways,
highways and in public places in some countries, including France, Arizona is
the first state to demand that immigrants meet federal requirements to carry
identity documents legitimizing their presence on American soil.

Brewer acknowledged critics' concerns but sided with arguments from the law's
sponsors that it provides an indispensable tool for the police in a border state
that is a leading magnet of illegal immigration.

She said that racial profiling would not be tolerated, adding, "We have to trust
our law enforcement."

President George W. Bush had attempted comprehensive reform but failed when his
own party split over the issue. Once again, Republicans facing primary
challenges from the right, including Brewer and Sen. John McCain of Arizona,
have come under tremendous pressure to support the Arizona law, known as SB1070.

McCain, locked in a competitive primary with a challenger campaigning on
immigration, only came out in support of the law hours before the state Senate
passed it Monday afternoon. Brewer, even after the Senate had passed the bill,
had been silent on whether she would sign it. Though she was widely expected to,
given her primary challenge, she refused to give her position on it even at a
dinner Thursday for a Hispanic social service organization, Chicanos Por La
Causa, where several audience members called out "veto!"

Among other things, the Arizona measure is an extraordinary rebuke to Janet
Napolitano, who had vetoed similar legislation repeatedly as a Democratic
governor before she was appointed homeland security secretary by Obama. Her
successor, Brewer, is a Republican.

The law opened a deep fissure in Arizona, with a majority of the thousands of
callers to the governor's office urging her to reject the law.

In the days leading up to Brewer's decision, Rep. Raúl Grijalva, a Democrat,
called for a convention boycott of his state.

Sponsored by Russell Pearce, a state senator and a firebrand on immigration
issues, SB1070 has several provisions.

It requires police officers "when practicable" to detain people they reasonably
suspect are in the country without authorization and to verify their status with
federal officials, unless doing so would hinder an investigation or emergency
medical treatment.

It makes it a state crime, a misdemeanor, to not carry immigration papers. It
also allows people to sue local governments or agencies if they believe federal
or state immigration law is not being enforced.

States across the country have proposed or enacted hundreds of bills addressing
immigration since 2007, the last time a federal effort to reform immigration law
collapsed. Last year, there were a record number of laws enacted (222) and
resolutions (131) in 48 states, according to the National Conference of State
Legislatures.

The prospect of plunging into a national immigration debate this year is being
increasingly talked about on Capitol Hill, spurred in part by recent statements
by Sen. Harry Reid of Nevada, the majority leader, that he intends to bring
legislation to the floor of the Senate sometime after Memorial Day.

But the outlook is mixed. While an immigration debate could help energize
Hispanic voters and provide political benefits to embattled Democrats who are
seeking re-election in November - like Reid - it could also energize
conservative voters. The issue makes many House and Senate Democrats nervous.

LOAD-DATE: April 25, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC:  John Moore  o  Getty Images   Ross D. Franklin  o  Associated Press
John Moore  o  Getty Images                      John Moore  o  Getty Images
Demonstrators Tania Contreras (left) and Yahaira Soberanes console each other
after an immigration bill was signed into law Friday by Republican Gov. Jan
Brewer in Phoenix.  Ross D. Franklin  o  Associated Press Supporters of the new
immigration law rally Friday outside the Arizona Capitol. The sweeping measure
makes the failure to carry immigration documents a crime.  John Moore  o  Getty
Images  Police and demonstrators scuffle Friday in Phoenix. Arizona's new
immigration law gives police broad power to detain anyone suspected of being in
the country illegally, which critics say will lead to profiling.

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                  Copyright 2010 St. Louis Post-Dispatch, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              22 of 137 DOCUMENTS


                       St. Louis Post-Dispatch (Missouri)

                             July 31, 2010 Saturday
                                 FIRST EDITION

U.S. memo outlines 'relief' for illegals Republicans cry foul, say Obama's
administration is trying to circumvent Congress.

BYLINE: BY JULIE HIRSCHFELD DAVIS o Associated Press

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. A6

LENGTH: 439 words

DATELINE: 0


WASHINGTON - President Barack Obama's administration, unable to push an
immigration overhaul through Congress, is considering ways it could go around
lawmakers to let illegal immigrants stay in the United States, according to an
agency memo.

The internal draft written by officials at U.S. Citizenship and Immigration
Services outlines ways the government could provide "relief" to illegal
immigrants - including delaying deportation for some, perhaps indefinitely, or
granting green cards to others - in the absence of legislation revamping the
system.

It's emerging as chances fade in this election year for a measure Obama favors
to put the nation's estimated 12 million undocumented immigrants on a path to
legal status, and as debate rages over an Arizona law targeting people suspected
of being in the country illegally.

The 11-page internal memo, written in April to the agency's director, says:
"This memorandum offers administrative relief options to promote family unity,
foster economic growth, achieve significant process improvements and reduce the
threat of removal for certain individuals present in the United States without
authorization."

It goes on, "In the absence of comprehensive immigration reform, USCIS can
extend benefits and/or protections to many individuals or groups."

The memo drew a backlash from Republicans, who called it evidence that Obama is
looking for ways of relaxing immigration policies without political consensus.

"The document provides an additional basis for our concerns that the
administration will go to great lengths to circumvent Congress and unilaterally
execute a back-door amnesty plan," said Sen. Charles Grassley, R-Iowa.

Grassley led a group of conservative GOP senators who wrote to Obama in June
asking him to promise that the administration wouldn't use its authority to
"change the current position of a large group of illegal aliens already in the
United States."

The Iowan's staff said the group has not received a response.

OPTIONS EXPLORED Among the options outlined in the U.S. Citizenship and
Immigration Services memo were: o Expanding the use of "deferred action" - in
which the government can use its discretion to halt a deportation indefinitely,
usually for an urgent humanitarian reason. o Allowing more illegal immigrants to
receive "parole-in-place" status. This would let them stay in the United States
while they seek legal status. o Expanding the definition of "extreme hardship"
for exceptions in immigration cases. o Allowing people who were granted
"Temporary Protected Status" because of a crisis in their home countries to stay
and get permanent legal residency.

LOAD-DATE: August 1, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                  Copyright 2010 St. Louis Post-Dispatch, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              23 of 137 DOCUMENTS


                       St. Louis Post-Dispatch (Missouri)

                             August 9, 2010 Monday
                                 SECOND EDITION

Death fuels immigration debate Authorities in Virginia hope nun's death in
accident involving a drunk driver who was in the country illegally will lead to
crackdown.

BYLINE: By SUZANNE GAMBOA and KATHLEEN MILLER o Associated Press

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. A6

LENGTH: 844 words

DATELINE: 0


WASHINGTON - In Arizona, the fatal shooting of a rancher blew the lid off
simmering anger over border security and helped solidify support for a tough new
immigration law. A similar eruption threatens in Virginia after the death of a
Catholic nun in a car accident involving a man in the country illegally and
accused of drunken driving.

The Benedictine Sisters of Virginia tried to discourage using the death of
Sister Denise Mosier as a "forum of the illegal immigration agenda" and pleaded
for a focus on "Christ's command to forgive."

"The sisters' mission is peace and love," said Corey Stewart, chairman of Prince
William County's Board of Supervisors. "My mission is law enforcement and the
protection of public safety."

Prince William County, about 25 miles southwest of Washington, stepped up its
immigration enforcement in 2007 amid explosive growth of its Hispanic and
immigrant populations. Under Stewart's leadership, the county implemented a
local policy requiring police to determine the immigration status of all people
arrested on suspicion of violating state or local laws.

Stewart rushed back into the immigration debate after the Aug. 1 accident,
firing off a statement that President Barack Obama, Homeland Security Secretary
Janet Napolitano and members of Congress "all have blood on their hands."

"What I'm hoping is that this situation, which because it involves a nun has
drawn the nation's attention, can serve as a catalyst for change and force the
administration to come clean about its catch-and-release policies," Stewart
said. He also says that the incident illustrates the need for Virginia to
toughen its drunken driving laws.

Even though Stewart says he's not running for higher office now, he is seen as a
potential candidate for lieutenant governor in three years. "Regardless of what
he says, there is no question people would be interested in seeing him move up
within the Republican Party," said Stephen Farnsworth, an assistant
communications professor at George Mason University.

The day after the crash, Virginia Attorney General Ken Cuccinelli II issued an
advisory opinion concluding that police have authority to inquire into the
immigration status of any person stopped or arrested, similar to the Arizona
immigration law that is under federal court review.

Arizona passed the law after rancher Robert Krentz was fatally shot while
checking water lines on his property near the Arizona-Mexico border. Authorities
believe a scout for drug smugglers is to blame, although an investigation
continues.

The sisters at the Bristow, Va., monastery have buried Mosier, who would have
turned 67 on Aug. 26. Two other nuns injured in the crash, Charlotte Lange and
Connie Ruth Lupton, have undergone surgery and remain in critical condition.

The man charged in the case, Carlos A. Martinelly Montano, 23, of Bolivia, had
two prior drunken driving convictions but was not required to serve any of his
30-day sentence for the first one. A Prince William County judge required
Montano to serve only 20 days of his approximately one-year sentence on his
second conviction.

Local officials turned him over to federal immigration enforcement officers
after the second incident and after sentencing, but federal officers released
him both times while he awaited hearings.

Montano is being held at the Prince William County Adult Detention Center, and
the county's prosecutor is promising to ask a grand jury to consider charges
that could put him in prison for 40 years.

Montano entered the U.S. illegally with his parents and siblings, his uncle,
Luis Ronald Montano, said. Carlos Montano attended American schools in New
Jersey and Virginia from third grade through high school. He is engaged and is
the father of two boys, ages 1 and 2, who were born in Manassas, Va.

The nuns have forgiven Montano. Mercy and forgiveness, the nuns say on their
website, are not optional for Christians.

Nearly half of the 292,663 people deported or removed by ICE this year through
July 22 were considered criminals. That compares with 34 percent, or 136,343, in
all of last year, a reflection of ICE's focus on deporting people with criminal
records.

Removals of noncitizens who are not criminals are below what they were at the
same time last year, which has become fodder for criticism of the
admdinistration of President Barack Obama.

The law requires mandatory detention for immigrants who have committed certain
crimes. In other cases, immigration officials have to make judgment calls on
whether to release someone.

In those cases, ICE considers the likelihood that the person will be a danger to
the community and the likelihood the person will appear at deportation hearings,
said David Leopold, president of the American Immigration Lawyers Association.

Factors they consider are ties to the community, such as whether they have
family members or citizen children in the U.S.

"The sisters' mission is peace and love. My mission is law enforcement and the
protection of public safety." - Corey Stewart, chairman of Prince William
County's Board of Supervisors

LOAD-DATE: August 10, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC:  Photo by associated press - Corey Stewart (right), chairman of the
Prince William County, Va., Board of Supervisors, and Maureen Caddigan (center),
listen to public comment  after the accident in which Sister Denise Mosier was
killed.  Photo by benedictine sisters - Sister Denise Mosier of the Benedictine
Sisters of Virginia was killed in a car crash in which Carlos Montano, an
illegal immigrant, was charged with drunken driving.

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                  Copyright 2010 St. Louis Post-Dispatch, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              24 of 137 DOCUMENTS


                       St. Louis Post-Dispatch (Missouri)

                            September 5, 2010 Sunday
                                 FIRST EDITION

Migrant births defy claims of immigration policy critics It's rare for
immigrants to come specifically to have a baby, study says.

BYLINE: by BOB CHRISTIE AND PAUL J. WEBER o Associated Press

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. A12

LENGTH: 949 words

DATELINE: 0


SAN JUAN, Texas - When Ruth Garcia's twins are born in two months, they'll have
all the rights of U.S. citizens. They and their six brothers and sisters will be
able to vote, apply for federal student loans and even run for president.

Garcia is an illegal immigrant who crossed into the country about 14 years ago,
before her children were born, and the citizenship granted to her children and
millions others like them is at the center of a divisive national debate.

Republicans are pushing for congressional hearings to consider changing the
nation's 14th Amendment to deny such children the automatic citizenship the
Constitution guarantees. They say women like Garcia are taking advantage of the
constitutional amendment and paint a picture of pregnant women rushing across
the border to give birth.

While a recent Pew Hispanic Center study shows 8 percent of the 4.3 million
babies born in the U.S. in 2008 had at least one illegal parent, a closer
examination shows that most children of illegal immigrants are born to parents
like Garcia who have made the United States their home for years.

Out of 340,000 babies born to illegal immigrants in the United States in 2008,
85 percent of the parents had been in the country for more than a year, and more
than half for at least five years, Jeffrey Passel, a senior demographer for Pew,
told The Associated Press.

And immigration experts say it's extraordinarily rare for immigrants to come to
the U.S. just so they can have babies and get citizenship. In most cases, they
come for economic reasons and better hospitals, and end up staying and raising
families.

Garcia's husband has been deported and she earns a living selling tamales to
other immigrants who live in fear of being deported from the slapdash,
impoverished colonias that dot the Texas-Mexico border.

"I think that children aren't at fault for having been born here," Garcia said.
"My children always have lived here. They've never gone to another country."

Under current immigration law, Garcia and others like her don't get U.S.
citizenship even though their children are Americans.

With an estimated 11.1 million illegal immigrants living in the United States,
the issue strikes a chord with many voters - people like retired Air Force nurse
and pediatric nurse practitioner Susan Struck, 66, of Double Adobe, Ariz.

"People come over ... and they have babies with U.S. birth certificates, then
they go back over the border with that Social Security number, with that birth
certificate," and have access to public services, she said at a recent event
near the border organized by conservative Tea Party activists.

Several prominent Republican leaders share Struck's beliefs on the issue. Sen.
Lindsey Graham of South Carolina has been a vocal advocate for changing the
Constitution, and he helped the issue gain momentum heading into the midterm
elections.

"Women have traveled from across the world for the purpose of adding a U.S.
passport holder to their family, as far away as China, Turkey and as close as
Mexico," said Jon Feere, legal analyst for the Center for Immigration Studies,
which advocates for strict immigration laws.

Still, changing the Constitution is highly unlikely, legal scholars say.
Measures have been introduced in each two-year congressional session since 2005,
but none has made it out of committee. Constitutional changes require approval
by two-thirds majorities in both chambers of Congress, an impossibility now
because Democrats have the majority in both houses and most oppose such a
measure. Even if Republicans gain power in November and legislation is passed,
an amendment would still need to be ratified by three-fourths of the states.

To be sure, some pregnant Mexican women do come to the United States. In border
cities like Nogales, women have been coming to the U.S. for decades to give
birth, although the primary reason is better medical care, Santa Cruz County
sheriff Tony Estrada said. Billboards advertising birthing services in Arizona
line streets across the border in Nogales, Mexico.

Tucson Medical Center, 115 miles southeast of Phoenix, offers packages designed
to provide inclusive care to new mothers. The program draws some residents of
the northern Mexican state of Sonora who can afford its upfront costs and
already have U.S. visas, spokesman Michael Letson said.

Princeton University demographer Douglas Massey said in 30 years studying
Mexican immigration, he's never interviewed a migrant who said they came to the
United States just to get citizenship for their children.

"Mexicans do not come to have babies in the United States," said Massey, who
blames the tightening of the border in the 1990s for cutting off normal
migration of men who used to come to work for a year or two and then go home.
"They end up having babies in the United States because men can no longer
circulate freely back and forth from homes in Mexico to jobs in the United
States, and husbands and wives quite understandably want to be together."

More common, he and other experts says, are families stuck with one child who is
legal and others who aren't - like Beatriz Gomez, a 35-year-old illegal
immigrant who came to Phoenix 11 years ago on a now-expired tourist visa from
Arriaga in the Mexican state of Chiapas.

Her 12-year-old daughter was born in Mexico and is here illegally, but her two
youngest children, ages 8 and 5, were born in the U.S. and are citizens.

"It's sad," Gomez said of her oldest daughter, who was only 1 when the family
came to the United States and won't qualify for benefits such as in-state
college tuition rates or federal student loans. "She studies hard, and she won't
be able to go to a university like the other two."

LOAD-DATE: September 5, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC:  Eric Gay o Associated Press  Eric Gay o Associated Press Ruth Garcia,
a mother of six who is expecting twins, came to Texas illegally about 14 years
ago. All her kids were born in the U.S.

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                  Copyright 2010 St. Louis Post-Dispatch, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              25 of 137 DOCUMENTS


                       St. Louis Post-Dispatch (Missouri)

                          September 16, 2010 Thursday
                                 THIRD EDITION

Sen. Brady sketchy on immigration issue

BYLINE: By DEANNA BELLANDI o Associated Press

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. A16

LENGTH: 345 words

DATELINE: 0


BERWYN, Ill. - The Republican candidate for Illinois governor, state Sen. Bill
Brady, said Wednesday he doesn't support amnesty for illegal immigrants, but he
wouldn't say much else about immigration reform.

The Bloomington, Ill., lawmaker said reform is needed at the federal level
because there is a "serious crisis," but he was short on specifics about what
that reform should look like when asked about it by a reporter at an event
marking Hispanic Heritage Month.

He also wouldn't say what should be done about the illegal immigrants who are
already in the country.

"This is going to require a federal reform package. As governor of the state of
Illinois, I'll work with other governors and the United States Congress and the
president to bring about meaningful reform to take care of this problem," he
said.

A Pew Hispanic Center study has estimated Illinois had about 525,000 illegal
immigrants in 2009.

Gov. Pat Quinn, Brady's Democratic opponent in November, supports reforms that
allow undocumented immigrants, who are otherwise lawful, to get the opportunity
for citizenship after paying a fine and learning English, said Quinn campaign
spokeswoman Mica Matsoff.

Matsoff, in a statement, said Quinn believes any comprehensive immigration
reforms also should secure the country's borders and hold businesses accountable
for "exploiting" undocumented workers.

Matsoff said Quinn is "strongly against" Arizona's new immigration law. In May,
Brady said he didn't have an opinion on the Arizona law and he said Wednesday
that his position had not changed.

Some Latino supporters at Brady's event said immigration wasn't a core issue for
them in the Illinois governor's race. For Lou Sandoval of Chicago, who owns a
boat dealership, it's about what he calls Illinois' "toxic" business climate.

"Right now, it doesn't matter whether you're brown, blue, pink or whichever. If
you don't have a job right now, you're very disadvantaged," said Sandoval, one
of a couple dozen supporters who gathered in the parking lot of a
Harley-Davidson dealership in the Chicago suburb of Berwyn.

LOAD-DATE: September 17, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                  Copyright 2010 St. Louis Post-Dispatch, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              26 of 137 DOCUMENTS


                       St. Louis Post-Dispatch (Missouri)

                           November 11, 2010 Thursday
                                 THIRD EDITION

Immigration issue clouds custody fight Guatemalan ambassador weighs in on
system's shortcomings. STL THURSDAY

BYLINE: Tony Messenger o tmessenger@post-dispatch.com > 573-635-6178

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. A15

LENGTH: 730 words

DATELINE: 0


JEFFERSON CITY - Francisco Villagran de Leon is a man who chooses his words
carefully.

That's the nature of his job in international relations, where every word can be
parsed to the advantage or disadvantage of one's country.

Villagran de Leon is Guatemala's ambassador to the United States. On Tuesday he
had a front-row seat to the debate over America's problem with illegal
immigration as it played out in the Missouri Supreme Court.

The case involved a custody battle between a Guatemalan woman, Encarnacion
Romero, and a couple from Carthage, Mo., Seth and Melinda Moser. They are
fighting over who will raise the child Romero gave birth to and the Mosers have
raised since he was 1.

That's when Romero was jailed after a raid of a Barry County chicken plant.

She was, and is, an illegal immigrant who like millions of others came to this
country seeking work. She used somebody else's identification so she could get
paid.

Romero faces deportation, but that's not why Villagran de Leon was in court. He
was here, he said, because of a broken immigration policy that all too often
splits up families and heaps tragedy upon tragedy.

"It's very troubling to see a mother lose her child because she's taken into
custody for violation of immigration laws," Villagran de Leon told reporters.

He looks the part of an ambassador, tall with distinguished gray hair and
matching, tightly trimmed beard. On Tuesday he wore a fine gray wool suit, with
a neatly knotted blue tie matching a thin splash of color in the threading of
his jacket.

He was careful to say that the federal government is cooperating in delaying
Romero's deportation so her custody battle can be settled. But when it comes to
his thoughts on the case, Villagran de Leon let loose with a verbal volley.

"We are deeply concerned that there is prejudice against foreigners," he said.

That prejudice, Villagran de Leon said, was manifested when a woman who didn't
speak English lost her child while she was in jail for a crime that in the eyes
of the Supreme Court is no longer a crime.

Romero's inability to speak English is a key to the debate in the case.

In fact, at the time the chicken plant was raided in May 2007, the Missouri
Legislature was busy debating a bill that asked state voters to make English the
state's official language. That bill, which ultimately passed, was part of a
national movement to bring attention to the country's illegal immigration
problems.

At a time when Congress couldn't decide what to do about the issue, the raids
were coordinated to show that the government was doing something.

The result was that mixed families of citizens and noncitizens were torn apart,
said Yolanda Lorge, a Hispanic activist in Springfield, Mo., who serves as an
interpreter in courts in Southwest Missouri. She stood in court with many of the
immigrants - some of them citizens - detained in the 2007 Barry County raid.

Many arrested in these cases don't understand what's happening to them. And
because they're afraid of what might happen to undocumented family members, the
question of what they should tell law enforcement about who is caring for their
children becomes tricky.

"In some of these cases, even if they had a relative, they didn't want to get
them involved," Lorge said. "They are afraid. Anybody can intimidate them."

That's precisely what happened in the case of Romero, Villagran de Leon argued
to reporters after her case was heard by Missouri's highest court.

"They feared for themselves. They feared for their children," the ambassador
said. "They were intimidated into giving the child away."

Regardless of the "English-only" provision in the Missouri Constitution, the
judges on the state's Supreme Court indicated that the question of whether
Romero understood what was happening to her will be key to their decision in the
case.

America's legal system cannot work, some of the judges said, if those
participating in it don't understand what's happening.

The judges who sat across the room Tuesday from three parents fighting over the
same child face a dilemma. In the end, that child is going home with somebody.

The dilemma facing the country is the same as it was in 2007. What to do about
America's immigration policy? Villagran de Leon didn't say what he thought the
solution should be, but his challenge was obvious: Whatever the solution,
remember the 4-year-old boy caught in the crossfire.

LOAD-DATE: November 12, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: COLUMN

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                  Copyright 2010 St. Louis Post-Dispatch, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              27 of 137 DOCUMENTS


                       St. Louis Post-Dispatch (Missouri)

                              June 1, 2010 Tuesday
                                 THIRD EDITION

Detainee centers can be census boom Counting of illegal immigrants could bring
in more federal funds for small towns. NATION

BYLINE: BY MANUEL VALDES o Associated Press

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. A7

LENGTH: 466 words

DATELINE: 0


TACOMA, Wash. - Paulo Sergio Alfaro-Sanchez, an illegal immigrant being held at
a detention center in Washington state, had no idea that the federal government
would count him in the census.

No one gave him a census form. No one told him his information would be culled
from the center's records.

But counted he was, along with other illegal immigrants facing deportation in
detention centers across the country - about 30,000 people on any given day,
according to U.S. Immigration and Customs and Enforcement.

By the time the census delivers the total tallies to the state and federal
government, most of the immigrants will be long gone. But because the population
snapshot determines the allocation of federal dollars, those in custody could
help bring money to the towns, cities and counties in Texas, Arizona, Washington
and Georgia where the country's biggest and newest facilities are situated.

"I think the irony, if there's any irony, is that the locality is what's going
to benefit, because you have a detention center in a particular city where
people have been brought from different parts of the region, and that community
will benefit," said Arturo Vargas, executive director of National Association of
Latino Elected and Appointed Officials, an organization that has pushed Latinos
to participate in the census.

This census brings a twist, though. For the first time, states have the option
of counting people in detention centers and prisons as residents of their last
address before they're detained, worrying some local lawmakers who say cities
and counties that host detention centers could lose money.

"Detention centers and prisons should probably count where they are located,
that's where resources would be required," Rep. Sanford D. Bishop, D-Georgia
wrote in a May letter to the chairman of the subcommittee that oversees the
census. Bishop represents Stewart County, Georgia, population 4,600, where the
nation's largest detention center housed a total of 14,000 people between April
2007 and March 2008.

ICE operates 22 immigrant detention centers and also houses people in hundreds
of other jails or prisons. Most of the largest centers are in small towns in
Texas, Arizona and Georgia. Texas is home to six detention centers, and Arizona
has three.

The payout can be hefty for small towns. Federal money being distributed from
the census averaged about $1,469 per person in fiscal year 2008, according to
the Brookings Institute, and other grants are also available to small towns
depending on their population.

In Raymondville, Texas, a town of nearly 10,000 people, the Willacy Detention
Center holds an average daily population of about 1,000. The detention center's
population may push Raymondville over 10,000, a number that will allow it to
qualify for more federal help.

LOAD-DATE: June 2, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                  Copyright 2010 St. Louis Post-Dispatch, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              28 of 137 DOCUMENTS


                       St. Louis Post-Dispatch (Missouri)

                            February 20, 2009 Friday
                                 THIRD EDITION

Terrorist jailed in '73 car bombing is released

BYLINE: The Associated Press

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. A7

LENGTH: 383 words

DATELINE: 0


NEW YORK - A Black September terrorist who served only about half his 30-year
sentence for planting three car bombs in New York City in 1973 was released
Thursday into the custody of immigration officials to be deported.

Khalid Al-Jawary, 63, was released from the Supermax maximum-security prison in
Florence, Colo., said Carl Rusnok, a U.S. Immigration and Customs Enforcement
spokesman. Rusnok said a federal immigration judge had signed a deportation
order for Al-Jawary.

Al-Jawary's release date was set for Thursday after he was credited with time
served before his sentencing and good behavior.

Rusnok declined to say where Al-Jawary was being held as he awaits deportation.
It's also not clear when Al-Jawary will be deported or where he will be sent.
The mysterious terrorist had many aliases and was known to use fake passports
from Jordan, Iraq and France.

Al-Jawary has denied involvement in the 1973 New York City bomb plot; he claims
his real name is Khaled Mohammed El-Jassem. The FBI to this day remains unsure
of his true identity.

Al-Jawary, under that name, was convicted in 1993 of placing two powerful bombs
along Fifth Avenue and a third at John F. Kennedy International Airport 20 years
before. The bombs, which failed to detonate, were timed to coincide with the
arrival of then-Israeli Prime Minister Golda Meir.

The case has drawn widespread attention since an Associated Press investigation
last month raised questions about whether Al-Jawary had a role in a murderous
letter-bombing campaign and the bombing of an TWA flight in 1974 that killed 88
people.

Al-Jawary was a member of Black September, a terrorist group responsible for
many lethal attacks, including the killings of 11 Israeli athletes at the 1972
Olympics in Munich, Germany.

In 1979, Al-Jawary was arrested in Germany while trying to carry out a terrorist
attack on likely Israeli and Jewish targets. He was released, and the next year,
he escaped an assassination attempt in Beirut that left two of his aides injured
and his car smoldering.

Al-Jawary blamed the attack on Mossad, Israel's foreign intelligence service. At
the time of the failed hit, he was working for Abu Iyad, a top commander in
Fatah, the Palestine Liberation Organization's military wing. Iyad was believed
to have helped plan the Munich murders.

LOAD-DATE: February 20, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                  Copyright 2009 St. Louis Post-Dispatch, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              29 of 137 DOCUMENTS


                       St. Louis Post-Dispatch (Missouri)

                             April 13, 2009 Monday
                                 THIRD EDITION

Hispanics skeptical of police fairness Immigration enforcement has fueled
distrust. SOCIAL JUSTICE

BYLINE: By HOPE YEN o The Associated Press

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. A7

LENGTH: 428 words

DATELINE: 0


WASHINGTON - Fewer than half of Hispanics in the United States believe they will
be treated fairly by police or the courts, showing a level of distrust greater
than that of whites but less than blacks, according to surveys.

The report released last week by the Pew Hispanic Center highlights a widening
disconnect in racial justice: At a time when Hispanics are interacting more with
law enforcement due in part to their growing population as well as stepped-up
immigration enforcement, they are showing skepticism.

Mark Hugo Lopez, associate director of the center, cited in part Hispanics'
fears of immigration prosecutions as well as a perception that police will be
ineffective in helping them if they are victims of a crime.

"Hispanic exposure to all parts of the criminal justice system has risen even
faster than their rising share of the U.S. adult population," he said.

Among the findings:

- Forty-six percent of Hispanics were confident police would treat them fairly
compared to other racial or ethnic groups. That's compared to 74 percent of
whites and 37 percent of blacks.

- Roughly six in 10 Hispanics say they have a great deal or a fair amount of
confidence that police will do a good job overall enforcing the law. That's
compared to 78 percent of whites and 55 percent of blacks.

- More than half, or 56 percent, of Hispanics say they or an immediate family
member had contact with the criminal justice system in the previous five years,
either as a witness to a crime, a juror, or as a suspect or criminal.

- Forty-six percent of Hispanics believe police will not use excessive force on
suspects, compared to 73 percent of whites and 38 percent of blacks.

The survey was conducted in mid-2008, when immigration prosecutions were rising
due to tighter enforcement during the administration of President George W.
Bush. Citing minority distrust of government workers, Hispanic and other groups
are urging the new administration to push through immigration reform or
temporarily halt raids during next year's census to ensure a more accurate
count.

There are nearly 12 million illegal immigrants in the U.S., many of them
clustered in states such as California, New York, Florida and Texas, which stand
to either lose House seats or gain fewer seats depending on whether their
Hispanic communities are fully counted.

The Pew survey interviewed 2,015 Hispanics ages 18 and older by phone from June
9 through July 13, 2008. The sampling error for Hispanics was plus or minus 2.8
percentage points. The figures for blacks and whites came from a November 2007
Pew survey.

LOAD-DATE: April 14, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                  Copyright 2009 St. Louis Post-Dispatch, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              30 of 137 DOCUMENTS


                       St. Louis Post-Dispatch (Missouri)

                             May 14, 2009 Thursday
                                 THIRD EDITION

Growth of U.S. Hispanic, Asian populations slowed by immigration laws, economy

BYLINE: THE ASSOCIATED PRESS

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. A19

LENGTH: 233 words

DATELINE: 0


WASHINGTON - Deterred by immigration laws and the lackluster economy, the
population growth of Hispanics and Asians in the U.S. has slowed unexpectedly,
causing the government to push back estimates on when minorities will become the
majority by as much as a decade.

Census data released Thursday also showed that fewer Hispanics were migrating to
suburbs and newly emerging immigrant areas in the Southeast, including Arkansas,
Tennessee and Georgia, staying put instead in traditional gateway locations such
as California.

The nation's overall minority population continues to rise steadily, increasing
2.3 percent in 2008 to 104.6 million, or 34 percent of the total population. But
the slowdown among Hispanics and Asians continues to shift conventional notions
on when the tipping point in U.S. diversity will come - estimated to occur more
than three decades from now. Black growth rates remain somewhat flat.

Thirty-six states had lower Hispanic growth in 2008 compared with the year
before. The declines were in places where the housing bubble burst, such as
Nevada and Arizona, which lost construction jobs that tend to attract
immigrants.

Other decreases were seen in new immigrant destinations in the Southeast,
previously seen as offering good manufacturing jobs in lower-cost cities
compared with the pricier Northeast. In contrast, cities in California, Illinois
and New Jersey showed gains.

LOAD-DATE: May 14, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                  Copyright 2009 St. Louis Post-Dispatch, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              31 of 137 DOCUMENTS


                       St. Louis Post-Dispatch (Missouri)

                            October 19, 2009 Monday
                                 THIRD EDITION

Politics of counting Our view o Partisan politics threaten to undermine the 2010
Census. OPINION

SECTION: EDITORIAL; Pg. A15

LENGTH: 520 words

DATELINE: 0


Article 1, Section 2 of the U.S. Constitution requires an "enumeration" of the
population every 10 years. Since 1790, the federal government has duly conducted
its decennial census.

Now politics are threatening to undermine the accuracy of the 2010 population
count. These distractions must be vanquished, and the important mission of
counting everyone must remain the focus.

Census numbers are used to dole out federal dollars and apportion political
districts large and small. Census data are used to divvy up $300 billion a year
among state and local governments.

A complete count is vital for metro areas, which have large minority and
immigrant populations that made up much of the estimated 3 million people
nationwide who weren't counted in 2000. A complete count is particularly
important for slow-growing Missouri, which might lose one of its nine
Congressional districts after 2010.

Census Day is next April 1, right at the start of spring. But divisive political
posturing already is in bloom.

Sens. David Vitter, R-La., and Bob Bennett, R-Utah, want census takers to ask
everyone about citizenship and immigration status. Their goal is to keep
undocumented immigrants out of the count, thus keeping them from influencing the
flow of dollars and political seats.

But millions of census forms have been printed and are being printed, one reason
that the Vitter-Bennett amendment to the census appropriation is a long shot.
Good. It would inject the volatile topic of immigration reform into a neutral,
government-officiated process.

William Lacy Clay, D-St. Louis, chairman of the House Subcommittee on
Information policy, Census and National Archives, said the Vitter-Bennett bill
was "just politics" because Mr. Vitter is concerned that Hurricane Katrina has
caused his home state's population to decline.

On the left, the National Coalition of Latino Clergy and Christian Leaders has
called for immigrants to boycott the census count to make a political statement
in support of immigration reforms that would help the undocumented to become
legalized. Fortunately, other Hispanic and leading immigrants rights groups have
denounced talk of a boycott as counterproductive and political suicide.

Immigrants are among the most difficult groups to count. Language, educational
and cultural barriers and immigration status often cause them to be wary. Urging
them to shun the census would be a self-inflicted wound.

A full count of immigrants - including thousands of legal refugees from Bosnia
and around the world in the St. Louis area - will set the baseline for future
federal funding. Dennis Johnson, the Census Bureau's regional director, said the
impact of excluding people now would be felt for the next decade.

The Census Bureau will launch a massive media campaign in January under the
theme: "It's In Our Own Hands." The multilingual, multicultural initiative will
urge millions to complete their census forms.

Combustible rhetoric from the political fringes about the census count should be
rejected. It should be an apolitical pursuit of a clean, complete count to
benefit all Americans, regardless of politics.

LOAD-DATE: February 25, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES:  Our View  |  SUBJECT

DOCUMENT-TYPE: EDITORIAL

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                  Copyright 2009 St. Louis Post-Dispatch, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              32 of 137 DOCUMENTS


                       St. Louis Post-Dispatch (Missouri)

                          December 30, 2009 Wednesday
                                 THIRD EDITION

Wildwood woman wins battle to stay in the U.S. When her husband died in 2006
accident, she faced deportation.

BYLINE: BY STEPHEN DEERE sdeere@post-dispatch.com 314-340-8116

SECTION: COMMUNITY; Pg. B1

LENGTH: 467 words

DATELINE: 0


In the odd parlance of immigration law, the rule was known as the "widow
penalty."

It meant that if a U.S. citizen married a foreigner and then died after less
than two years of marriage, the foreigner lost the legal basis to stay in the
country and could be deported.

It's the situation Khamphee "Nok" Kells was in for the past few years. Kells is
originally from Thailand but now lives in Wildwood.

Her late husband, Navy recruiter Robert Kells, died in a motorcycle accident in
2006, less than a year after they had been married.

Threatened with deportation, Kells sued the government and eventually won. Her
case and a handful of others like it provided the impetus this fall for Congress
to abolish the so-called "widow penalty."

Earlier this month, Kells and her attorneys learned that the U.S. government
would drop its appeal of her victory. It officially ends litigation that could
send her back to Thailand.

"It's people like Mrs. Kells, who are not afraid, that allowed other people to
benefit from this," said Brent Renison, an Oregon immigration attorney who has
worked to abolish the "widow penalty" for five years. "She was brave."

Kells is in the process of applying for permanent residency. Without the new
law, her application could not have even been processed.

In 2004, Renison had a client from South Africa who was in the process of being
deported because her husband died before the two-year mark.

The case sparked his interest in trying to change the rule, which seemed
inhumane and was aimed at a small group of people. At one time, he knew of about
200 widows and widowers threatened with deportation because of it.

Renison filed a national class action lawsuit in 2007 and created the website
Surviving Spouses Against Deportation (ssad.org). He also found law firms across
the country to represent other widows and widowers for free.

For Kells, Renison persuaded St. Louis' Armstrong-Teasdale law firm to take her
case.

"In this situation a family was potentially going to be split up," said Darryl
Chatman, an Armstrong-Teasdale attorney who worked on the case, speaking about
the relationship Kells had formed with her in-laws, Tom and Karen Kells.

"Nok" Kells met Petty officer 1st class Robert Kells in Beijing in 2003, while
he was working at the U.S. Embassy.

The couple, along with her two daughters, moved to Missouri in 2005. Her case
was especially befuddling. At the same time the U.S. government was telling her
she had no legal basis to remain in the country, it was also paying military
death benefits to her and her daughters, who are now 20 and 14.

Kells stumbled across Renison's website after a friend told her about it more
than a year ago. She still has a hard time believing her good fortune at finding
him.

"Without Brent, this law wouldn't have made it through," she said.

LOAD-DATE: December 30, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                  Copyright 2009 St. Louis Post-Dispatch, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              33 of 137 DOCUMENTS


                       St. Louis Post-Dispatch (Missouri)

                             March 19, 2010 Friday
                                 THIRD EDITION

DIGEST - NATION

BYLINE: From news services

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. A10

LENGTH: 454 words

DATELINE: 0


'JihadJane' enters not-guilty plea

In a quick hearing in a crowded federal courtroom, Colleen "JihadJane" LaRose of
Pennsburg, Pa., pleaded not guilty Thursday to terrorism charges.

LaRose, 46, was in court just 2½ minutes for the arraignment on charges that she
joined a plot by militant Muslims abroad to kill a Swedish artist.

Chicagoan pleads guilty to role in Mumbai attacks - A U.S. citizen of Pakistani
descent pleaded guilty Thursday to charges alleging he scouted targets in
advance of the coordinated terrorist attacks in Mumbai, India, in 2008 that
killed some 170 people, including six Americans.

David Coleman Headley, 49, of Chicago, also acknowledged in U.S. District Court
in Chicago that he scouted targets for a never-carried-out attack on a
Copenhagen newspaper that drew the ire of much of the Muslim world after
publishing unflattering cartoons about the Prophet Muhammad.

Bipartisan immigration reform proposed - Sen. Charles Schumer, D-N.Y., and Sen.
Lindsey Graham, R-S.C., have proposed a comprehensive, bipartisan immigration
reform framework that would include tougher border enforcement, creation of
biometric Social Security cards and a path to legalization for the nation's
estimated 11 million undocumented immigrants.

Court affirms ruling that Ashcroft can be held liable - The full 9th U.S.
Circuit Court of Appeals voted Thursday to let stand its September decision that
former U.S. Attorney General John Ashcroft is not immune from a civil action
charging that he violated a Kansas-born Muslim convert's constitutional rights
by having him arrested without probable cause.

Ashcroft had petitioned the court for a rehearing of his claim of immunity,
which was denied in the 2-1 ruling six months ago that Abdullah Kidd could
proceed with his lawsuit.

Obama signs jobs bill - President Barack Obama held a Rose Garden ceremony
Thursday in which he signed into law a $38 billion jobs bill containing a modest
mix of tax breaks and spending designed to encourage the private sector to start
hiring again. There, however, is debate about how much the jobs package, which
includes $18 billion in tax breaks and $20 billion for highway and transit
programs, will actually encourage hiring. Optimistic estimates are that the tax
breaks could generate 250,000 jobs by year's end, a tiny portion of the 8.4
million jobs the economy has shed since the recession began in December 2007.

Tuberculosis cases in U.S. drop sharply - The incidence of tuberculosis
infections in the United States dropped by an unusual and unexpectedly large
11.4 percent in 2009, the largest one-year decrease since federal agencies began
tracking the disease in 1953, the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention
reported Thursday.

LOAD-DATE: March 20, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: BRIEF

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                  Copyright 2010 St. Louis Post-Dispatch, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              34 of 137 DOCUMENTS


                       St. Louis Post-Dispatch (Missouri)

                             March 22, 2010 Monday
                                 THIRD EDITION

Digest

BYLINE: From news services

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. A5

LENGTH: 498 words

DATELINE: 0


Thousands rally for immigration reform

Frustrated with the pace of action to overhaul the country's immigration system,
thousands of demonstrators descended on the nation's capital Sunday, waving
American flags and holding homemade signs in English and Spanish.

President Barack Obama, who promised to make overhauling the immigration system
a top priority in his first year, sought to reassure those at the rally with a
video message presented on giant screens at the National Mall in Washington. The
president said he was committed to working with Congress this year on a
comprehensive bill to fix a "broken immigration system."

Oklahoma slapped with more snow - More snow was falling Sunday as part of a
powerful storm blowing through Oklahoma and the southern Plains on the first
weekend of spring. The National Weather Service said there was moderate to heavy
snow across northeastern Oklahoma and northwestern Arkansas, with some places
reporting 8 to 12 inches of snow. The snow and rain was expected to end later
Sunday.

Authorities have attributed at least four deaths in four states to the weather.
Police in Arlington, Texas, said ice on an interstate caused an accident Sunday
involving five vehicles and two 18-wheelers. One of the 18-wheelers fell on
another vehicle, killing one person.

No injuries in emergency landing at O'Hare - Chicago officials say there were no
injuries after an emergency landing Sunday at O'Hare International Airport.
Chicago Department of Aviation spokeswoman Karen Pride says there was "a
pressurization problem" on American Airlines Flight 2363, which landed about
10:30 a.m. Sunday. The flight had taken off from Chicago and returned there.

Red River hits crest, begins to recede - The crest of the Red River was met
Sunday with more shrugs than white knuckles, as flood fears receded and Fargo,
N.D., residents walked their dogs and went to church instead of sandbagging and
fleeing to higher ground. City officials said they were relieved the bloated
river running along the border of North Dakota and Minnesota didn't cause major
damage leading up to its crest.

2 Baltimore officers shot in traffic stop - Two police officers who had pulled
over a suspicious vehicle were shot and wounded by the driver, and the suspect
was killed when the officers returned fire, Baltimore police said Sunday. Police
Commissioner Frederick Bealefeld said the officers will survive and are expected
to undergo surgery. One officer was shot in the right cheek, the other in the
hand. A third officer also shot at the suspect.

Suspect in fatal crash in Poland arrested in Chicago - A man accused in the
drunken-driving deaths of two 17-year-old girls in Poland in 1994 escaped from a
hospital there after the crash and fled to Chicago. U.S. marshals arrested
Andrezej Piotrowicz, 35, in November. An extradition hearing was held in
January, and a federal judge is expected to rule soon on Poland's request. The
ultimate decision will be made by the U.S. State Department.

LOAD-DATE: March 23, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC:  David Zalubowski o Associated Press Photo - Mark Chavez of Denver
holds his daughter, Andi, 4, at a rally in Denver on Sunday.  The demonstration
was part of a nationwide effort to spur immigration policy changes.

DOCUMENT-TYPE: BRIEF

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                  Copyright 2010 St. Louis Post-Dispatch, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              35 of 137 DOCUMENTS


                       St. Louis Post-Dispatch (Missouri)

                             March 26, 2010 Friday
                                 THIRD EDITION

Next reform? Our view o Can immigration elbow its way onto the national agenda?

SECTION: EDITORIAL; Pg. A18

LENGTH: 560 words

DATELINE: 0


As the U.S. House of Representatives met last Sunday to vote on a historic
health care reform bill, a few blocks away more than 200,000 people rallied at
the National Mall to urge immigration reform.

The timing was awful, but you can't get 200,000 people to Washington without
some advance notice. And who knew the key vote on health reform would come in a
rare Sunday session of the House?

Yet thousands marched in hopes of adding immigration reform to the national
agenda in the wake of a fatiguing and bitter battle for health care reform.

Americans' mood already is dampened by a struggling economy and unemployment at
9.7 percent. Other proposed major legislative reforms wait in line, including
education policy, climate change and financial regulatory overhauls.

Immigration reform would be a tough sell even in the best of times, and the
toxic partisan cloud over the Washington Beltway will make it even tougher. So
will the fact that it's an election year.

But onward the immigration reform advocates march.

U.S. Sens. Charles E. Schumer, D-N.Y., and Lindsey Graham, R-S.C., have outlined
a blueprint for immigration reform legislation in the Senate. In the House, Rep.
Luis Gutierrez, D-Ill., and 20 other Democrats last December introduced what
they call the Comprehensive Immigration Reform for America's Security and
Prosperity Act of 2009.

The Schumer-Graham blueprint has these key tenets: Creating a biometric (one
that can read physical attributes), tamper-proof Social Security card for all
U.S. workers; strengthening immigration enforcement along the borders and the
interior; establishing a legal process for temporary workers to migrate here,
and creating a system to legalize some of the estimated 11 to 12 million
undocumented immigrants who meet an extensive set of criteria.

The table is set. The question is whether anyone wants to sit down for what
would be a very volatile family dinner.

Critics can be expected to fixate on efforts to legalize some of those people
who illegally immigrated and ignore less controversial parts of the proposals.
Those include bolstering enforcement and allowing foreign-born students who come
here for an education in the sciences to stay and work here.

Another lightning rod will be the biometric identification card for every
worker, regardless of country of origin. Even though it is designed to eliminate
workplace fraud, opponents on the right and left alike see it as a "national ID
card," fraught with ominous implications.

If the health care reform marathon was any indicator, we should expect more
fear-mongering and bumper-sticker sloganeering along the lines of "socialized
medicine" and "death panels." We can only imagine what critics will find to say
about biometric ID cards.

Expect lots of talk about "amnesty." The Schumer-Graham framework would not
grant an automatic path to citizenship to all undocumented aliens. Rather it
would identify those most likely to become self-sufficient, requiring them to
pay fines and back taxes, learn English and pass background checks.

Similar stipulations were part of the bipartisan Immigration Reform and Control
Act of 1986, signed by President Ronald Reagan.

Further immigration reform is long overdue, but continuing high unemployment;
lingering questions about border security and terrorism and the national
political mood make it unlikely this year.

LOAD-DATE: March 27, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: EDITORIAL

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                  Copyright 2010 St. Louis Post-Dispatch, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              36 of 137 DOCUMENTS


                       St. Louis Post-Dispatch (Missouri)

                             April 25, 2010 Sunday
                                 FOURTH EDITION

Graham wants immigration bill to wait its turn Senator threatens to pull support
for energy, climate measures if they are delayed. NATION

BYLINE: BY MATTHEW DALY o Associated Press

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. A4

LENGTH: 510 words

DATELINE: 0


WASHINGTON - Republican Sen. Lindsey Graham threatened Saturday to withdraw his
support for energy and climate legislation if Democratic leaders moved first on
immigration reform in what he dismissed as "a cynical political ploy."

The South Carolina senator is one of three co-sponsors of a comprehensive energy
and climate change bill that was to be announced Monday. But in a letter
Saturday to Senate leaders, Graham said he would back away from the measure if
Senate Majority Leader Harry Reid, D-Nev., moved immigration reform first.

Later Saturday, Sen. John Kerry, D-Mass., a co-sponsor of the energy bill,
announced that he was placing the measure on hold. Kerry said the delay is only
temporary and he remains fully committed to passing the bill.

Immigration reform came to the fore this week as Arizona lawmakers passed a bill
that requires local police officers to question people about their immigration
status if there is reason to suspect they are illegal immigrants; allows
lawsuits against government agencies that hinder enforcement of immigration
laws; and bars hiring illegal immigrants for day labor or knowingly transporting
them. Gov. Jan Brewer signed the bill into law on Friday.

President Barack Obama called the Arizona bill "misguided" and instructed the
Justice Department to examine it to see if it's legal.

Hispanics voted heavily Democratic in 2008, and they've been disappointed with
Obama and congressional Democrats for not following up on campaign promises to
reform immigration laws.

Reid is up for re-election this year and is trailing in polls in Nevada, where
Latinos are an important constituency. With Democrats facing a tough political
climate in the midterm elections, energized Hispanic voters could make a
difference in several states.

Graham said Reid's apparent shift toward immigration issues would derail months
of effort on climate change, a difficult topic involving critically important
economic priorities. And he warned that Republican lawmakers would not take
kindly to being put on the spot with Hispanics. Many rank-and-file Republicans
are adamantly opposed to "amnesty" for illegal immigrants.

"Moving forward on immigration - in this hurried, panicked manner - is nothing
more than a cynical political ploy," Graham said.

In a statement Saturday that was both conciliatory and noncommittal, Reid said
he was determined to pass immigration legislation and an energy bill this year.

"Immigration and energy reform are equally vital to our economic and national
security and have been ignored for far too long," he said.

Both measures will require bipartisan support, Reid said, "and energy could be
next if it's ready." Comprehensive immigration reform requires significant
committee work that has not yet begun, he noted.

Reid said he appreciates Graham's work on both issues, but added: "I will not
allow him to play one issue off of another, and neither will the American
people. They expect us to do both, and they will not accept the notion that
trying to act on one is an excuse for not acting on the other."

LOAD-DATE: April 26, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                  Copyright 2010 St. Louis Post-Dispatch, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              37 of 137 DOCUMENTS


                       St. Louis Post-Dispatch (Missouri)

                              May 23, 2010 Sunday
                                 FIRST EDITION

Obama aunt's asylum victory is a rare win She defied order to leave; judge has
high rejection rate.

BYLINE: BY MARIA SACCHETTI o Boston Globe

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. A11

LENGTH: 466 words

DATELINE: 0


Zeituni Onyango was granted asylum this month. She lives in a Boston public
housing complex.

President Barack Obama's aunt managed a rare feat by winning asylum from a judge
with a high rejection record, lawyers say, especially after she had defied
orders to leave the country.

But Onyango, they say, is an extraordinary case.

Immigration lawyers said that Onyango must have been persuasive in arguing that
her circumstances had changed, possibly because of her famous nephew, even
though he has taken pains to stay out of her case. She had lived for years in
obscurity but became a major public figure just days before his historic
election when her situation came to light.

Asylum cases are kept confidential in federal immigration court, so it is
unclear why Judge Leonard I. Shapiro granted her asylum six years after she lost
an asylum case and was ordered deported. But immigration lawyers said Onyango
could have cited more recent factors such as ethnic violence in her native Kenya
or her own unexpected celebrity.

"This is a woman who had no appreciable public presence and is all of a sudden
an international celebrity, who everybody on the planet will know," said Nancy
Kelly, managing attorney at Greater Boston Legal Services' immigration unit. She
is not involved in Onyango's case. "That's a serious new circumstance that would
affect your safety."

Onyango testified before Shapiro during a closed-door hearing in February.
Before that hearing her lawyer, Margaret Wong, said Onyango feared tribal
violence if she were forced to return to Kenya.

Onyango is a member of the minority Luo tribe. In late 2007 and early 2008,
hundreds of Kenyans were killed in ethnic clashes after a disputed presidential
election.

She was also concerned about health problems. Onyango, who turns 58 this month,
suffers from Guillain-Barré syndrome, an autoimmune disorder.

Asylum seekers must show that they fear persecution in their native lands based
on race, religion, nationality, political opinion, or membership in a social
group.

Daniel Kanstroom, a law professor at Boston College who works with immigrants
and asylum seekers, said it is unusual for an immigration judge to reopen such a
case.

"It's noteworthy and very discretionary," he said. "To get a judge to reopen an
asylum case the asylum seeker would have to show that they have a pretty good
likelihood of prevailing in her case."

Neighbors say Onyango is a friendly figure.

She chats with the barber about his poinsettia plants, orders chicken wings from
the L Street Diner and buys groceries at the Stop & Shop around the corner.

Some in the neighborhood were more critical, saying that it was unfair of
Onyango to occupy public housing when she was in the United States illegally,
especially when thousands are on the waiting list for housing.

LOAD-DATE: May 23, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC:  Associated Press  Associated Press Zeituni Onyango said she feared
tribal violence if she were forced to return to Kenya. She was granted asylum
this month. She lives in Boston public housing.

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                  Copyright 2010 St. Louis Post-Dispatch, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              38 of 137 DOCUMENTS


                       St. Louis Post-Dispatch (Missouri)

                             June 9, 2010 Wednesday
                                 THIRD EDITION

Anarchy is legalized racial profiling Immigration o A critical restraint on
government is protection from unreasonable searches and seizures.

BYLINE: By Kenneth K. Schmitt Kenneth K. Schmitt is an immigration lawyer with
US Legal Solutions in St. Louis.

SECTION: EDITORIAL; Pg. A13

LENGTH: 743 words

DATELINE: 0


I represent many Latino clients before courts in the St. Louis area, including
Circuit Courts in Tad Armstrong's back yard in neighboring Illinois. Mr.
Armstrong's op-ed commentary on June 2 in the Post-Dispatch, "Anarchy has
arrived," is correct that anarchy has arrived regarding our country's
immigration policy, but it did so quite some time ago. Laws such as Arizona's
Senate Bill 1070 only will make this state of anarchy exponentially worse.

One of my clients, Juan, is a Mexican immigrant who did everything those in
Arizona calling for "stricter immigration enforcement" say he should have done.
He waited 10 long years to legally immigrate to the United States to live near
to his father, a U.S. citizen. He was admitted lawfully into the United States
and has been a lawful permanent resident in the United States for more than
three years.

This spring, Juan was accused by the state of Illinois of minor possession of a
controlled substance. After discovering the charge, he hired my office to
proactively answer the charge in court.

Juan, expecting that due process was something to which he was entitled as a
lawful permanent resident, did not wait to be arrested. We appeared voluntarily
in court and entered the appropriate "not guilty" plea, and Juan posted his
bond. All that remained was to voluntarily present himself to the county jail to
be formally booked, where he was fingerprinted and photographed and his
background was checked. Juan presented his "green card" and approval notice
previously issued by the immigration service (which preceded the "green card").
The booking took 20 minutes.

The supervisor on duty, not satisfied with Juan's documents, insisted that U.S.
Immigration and Customs Enforcement be contacted and Juan's identity checked.
ICE spoke with Juan by phone at the jail and, of course, advised that they had
no interest in him since, after all, Juan was legally present in the United
States.

Still not satisfied, the supervisor insisted Juan be further detained while she
continued urging ICE to personally interview Juan in jail. Of course, ICE did
not come since they knew Juan was legally present in the United States.
Apparently frustrated, the jail supervisor caused Juan to be detained for nearly
two hours after he had fulfilled all his duties to the state of Illinois and
after ICE confirmed he was lawfully present.

Mr. Armstrong's readers can rest assured that this would never have happened had
Juan been named John, been white or spoke better English. Rest assured that this
occurrence is neither unusual nor exceptional. It has become status quo in many
law enforcement "contacts" (as referenced in Arizona SB 1070).

We all know that, absent extenuating circumstances (such as an accident), most
police officers allow five or eight miles over the speed limit on the roads and
don't generally stop a driver who fails to signal a lane change. However, I have
countless Latino clients who have been stopped and the sole "lawful reasonable
suspicion" of a crime committed, supposedly justifying the stop, was driving
five or eight miles over the limit, no signal for a lane change or a burned-out
license plate light (these are real cases!). In 27 years of driving as a white
male, I have never been stopped on any such grounds.

And that's the rub. At the founding of our nation, one of the most critical
restraints on government was protection from unreasonable searches and seizures.
Our Constitution explicitly guarantees due process and equal protection under
the law to persons in the United States.

Discretion is vested in our law enforcement officers to decide how to adhere to
these constitutional protections from government action and how strictly to
enforce the law. When that discretion is exercised without regard to race or
other suspect classification, we call that "good police work." However, when
that discretion is exercised based on apparent immigrant origin, there are
different words for it: "racial profiling."

Unfortunately, Mr. Armstrong's anarchy came to roost on this country's doorstep
a long time back when racial profiling of immigrants in our communities became
an apparently acceptable practice by some officials in exercising their
discretion, even without explicit legal sanction.

Rest assured, laws like Arizona's SB 1070 will do nothing to ameliorate this
anarchy. They will make it exponentially worse by providing this sort of racial
profiling with a newly acquired legal sanction.

LOAD-DATE: June 10, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: COMMENTARY

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                  Copyright 2010 St. Louis Post-Dispatch, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              39 of 137 DOCUMENTS


                       St. Louis Post-Dispatch (Missouri)

                             June 19, 2010 Saturday
                                 THIRD EDITION

U.S. will try to stop law on immigration Administration is still working out
details of suit to be filed against Arizona.

BYLINE: By RANDAL C. ARCHIBOLD And MARK LANDLER o New York Times The Associated
Press contributed to this report.

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. A1

LENGTH: 744 words

DATELINE: 0


The administration of President Barack Obama has decided to file suit to block a
new Arizona law aimed at deporting illegal immigrants, thrusting itself into the
fierce national debate over how the United States enforces immigration policies.

The move is a rare instance of the federal government forcefully intervening in
a state's affairs, and it carries significant political risks. With immigration
continuing to be a hot-button issue in political campaigns across the country,
the Arizona law, which gives local police greater power to check the legal
status of people they stop, has become a rallying point for the Tea Party and
other conservative groups.

The decision to intervene, though widely anticipated, was confirmed by an
unexpected source: Secretary of State Hillary Rodham Clinton, who answered a
question about it from an Ecuadoran TV journalist in an interview on June 8 that
went all but unnoticed until this week.

Reiterating the publicly stated objections of Obama and senior officials to the
Arizona law, Clinton said of the president: "The Justice Department, under his
direction, will be bringing a lawsuit against the act."

A spokesman for the Justice Department said the matter was still under review,
but other senior administration officials, speaking on condition of anonymity,
said a decision had indeed been made and that only the details of the suit were
still being worked out. These officials said several government agencies were
being consulted over the best approach to blocking the law, which, barring any
successful legal challenges, is scheduled to take effect July 29. At least five
lawsuits have already been filed in federal court by other plaintiffs, and civil
rights groups have asked a federal judge to issue an injunction to forestall the
law from taking effect while the cases are heard.

Arizona Gov. Jan Brewer was angry about the way the information came out. "To
learn of this lawsuit through an Ecuadoran interview with the secretary of state
is just outrageous," she said. "If our own government intends to sue our state
to prevent illegal immigration enforcement, the least it can do is inform us
before it informs the citizens of another nation."

Brewer added, "This is no way to treat the people of Arizona."

Other Arizona politicians, political candidates and activist groups were quick
to weigh in on Clinton's remarks, seizing on the notion of a domestic policy
decision being disclosed on foreign soil.

U.S. Senate candidate J.D. Hayworth, who is challenging Sen. John McCain in the
Republican primary, called the remarks appalling; Republican attorney general
candidates Tom Horne and Andrew Thomas also denounced them.

State Department spokesman Philip Crowley said Clinton was responding to deep
unhappiness over the law that has been expressed in Mexico and other Latin
American countries. At home, polls show that a majority of Americans support the
law, or at least the concept of states more rigorously enforcing immigration
laws. But Latino groups and elected officials have denounced it as an affront to
Hispanics. Several large demonstrations, for and against the law, have been held
in Phoenix and other cities.

Some kind of legal action by the Justice Department against the law seemed
likely, given Obama's repeated statements against it, as well as concerns
Attorney General Eric Holder has voiced in interviews and news conferences.

In late May, Justice Department lawyers traveled to Phoenix to speak with
lawyers from the offices of the state attorney general, Terry Goddard, and of
Brewer about possible litigation. Goddard, a Democrat, and Brewer, a Republican,
are both running for governor, and both have said that a federal lawsuit would
be unwarranted.

On Friday, Goddard sent a letter to the governor's office saying that he decided
not to represent the state in any lawsuits related to the immigration law. He
said his decision was based on the desire to avoid a "costly and distracting
fight" over the issue of legal representation.

Brewer had asked Goddard to step aside, saying his previously stated opposition
to the immigration bill gave him a conflict of interest in the case. She has
Phoenix law firm Snell & Wilmer to defend her in the suits.

Brewer met with Obama in the Oval Office about the law on June 3, telling him:
"We want our border secured." Obama reiterated his objections to the law.
Neither side appeared to give ground although both talked about seeking a
bipartisan solution.

LOAD-DATE: June 23, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                  Copyright 2010 St. Louis Post-Dispatch, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              40 of 137 DOCUMENTS


                       St. Louis Post-Dispatch (Missouri)

                             June 29, 2010 Tuesday
                                 THIRD EDITION

NATIONAL DIGEST

BYLINE: From news services

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. A5

LENGTH: 501 words

DATELINE: 0


Obama seeks help in fight for immigration legislation

President Barack Obama is enlisting activists and labor leaders in a push for
comprehensive immigration legislation that will showcase Republican opposition
and include a major speech by the president.

The strategy was discussed during a meeting Monday by a range of prominent labor
leaders and activist groups. Participants said Obama reiterated his support for
immigration legislation but noted the political realities that have stalled it
in Congress.

Guard deployment attacked from both sides - Federal officials have told
Arizona's attorney general and a congresswoman that more than 500 of the 1,200
National Guard troops headed to the U.S. Mexican border will be stationed in the
state. Activists favoring open immigration said no Guard troops should be sent.
Arizona Gov. Jan Brewer, a Republican, denounced the National Guard deployment
as inadequate.

Cheney leaves hospital - Former Vice President Dick Cheney, 69, has been
discharged from the hospital after his latest bout with heart-related trouble.
Cheney was admitted to George Washington University Hospital on Friday after
reporting that he was not feeling well. He received medication to treat a fluid
buildup related to his aggressive form of heart disease.

Gates wants to save on weapons - Defense Secretary Robert Gates said he wants to
trim some of the billions of dollars the Pentagon spends on weapons systems and
contractor services, part of a Pentagon-wide effort to find $100 billion in
savings in the next five years.

Senator says his cancer is gone - Sen. Frank Lautenberg, who became the Senate's
oldest member at age 86 when fellow Democratic Sen. Robert Byrd of West Virginia
died Monday, has announced that he is cancer-free. It was announced Feb. 19 that
B-cell lymphoma was found in his stomach.

FDA wants to limit antibiotics in animals - The Food and Drug Administration is
urging meat producers to limit the amount of antibiotics they give animals. The
FDA said the use of antibiotics in meat poses a "serious threat" because they
create antibiotic-resistant bacteria that can infect humans who eat the meat.

Guantanamo gets new commander - The Pentagon installed a new prison commander at
Guantanamo and brought home Rear Adm. Thomas Copeman III, the admiral who was
supposed to be "the closer" for the U.S. Navy base. Copeman handed over
responsibility to Rear Adm. Jeffrey Harbeson.

Actress charged in death by auto - Actress Amy Locane, 38, who appeared on the
television show "Melrose Place," has been charged with death by auto in New
Jersey. Authorities said she collided with a car turning into a driveway,
killing a passenger, shortly after hitting another car and fleeing the scene,
and that she admitted she had been drinking.

Tennessee prisons to check immigration status - Tennessee Gov. Phil Bredesen, a
Democrat, signed a measure into law that requires the state's jailers to
determine whether inmates are in the country illegally and report them if they
are.

LOAD-DATE: June 30, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                  Copyright 2010 St. Louis Post-Dispatch, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              41 of 137 DOCUMENTS


                       St. Louis Post-Dispatch (Missouri)

                              July 2, 2010 Friday
                                 THIRD EDITION

NATION DIGEST

BYLINE: From news services

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. A11

LENGTH: 546 words

DATELINE: 0


Obama calls for immigration reform

In his first major speech on the issue, President Barack Obama on Thursday
called for immigration reform legislation that would include a pathway to
citizenship for the country's estimated 11 million illegal immigrants but said
it could not happen without Republican support.

Flood insurance bill passes - The Senate approved the House-passed extension to
the National Flood Insurance Program, which expired June 1, enabling insurers to
issue and renew policies as soon as President Barack Obama signs the
legislation. The bill extends the flood insurance program through Sept. 30.
Since March, program authorization has lapsed three times.

Obama signs Iran bill - President Barack Obama signed into law a bill imposing
new sanctions against Iran over its nuclear program that the United States
suspects is aimed at developing weapons.

Chelsea Clinton's wedding set - Chelsea Clinton's marriage to Marc Mezvinsky
will be held in the upstate New York village of Rhinebeck on July 31.Though
there has been no official announcement, scores of people have been hired to fix
up the grounds of the private mansion and to provide food, lodging and other
services.

Shuttle launching rescheduled - NASA announced that it would move the final
launching of the space shuttle to February 2011. The reason: delays in
processing a final load of spare parts for the international space station. The
last flight had been scheduled for this November.

Waste found in heating, cooling program - A federal program designed to help
impoverished families heat and cool their homes wasted more than $100 million
paying the electric bills of thousands of applicants who were dead, in prison or
living in million-dollar mansions, according to a government investigation.

Health care website set up - The federal government has launched a website aimed
at taking the guesswork out of finding a health care plan. Late Wednesday night,
the Department of Health and Human Services unveiled HealthCare.gov dedicated to
helping people navigate their health insurance options and understand the
provisions in the recently passed health care reform law. The website was a
requirement listed in the health care law passed in March.

Monuments bill proposed - Rep. Devin Nunes, R-Calif., introduced a bill to limit
the president's power to establish national monuments that he says would
endanger the livelihoods of thousands of loggers, miners and farmers. The bill
would let lawmakers weigh in on a president's designation of public land as new
national monuments.

GOP energized, survey finds - Republican voters are far more energized and
engaged than Democrats about the November congressional elections, a trend that
could mean a "solid victory" for the GOP, according to a new Pew Research Center
national survey.

$20 million for victim - The California Assembly approved a $20 million
settlement for Jaycee Dugard, who was kidnapped and held captive for 18 years.
State justice officials recommended the award, which still must be approved by
the state Senate.

Medal of Honor proposed - The military has sent the White House a recommendation
to award the Medal of Honor to a soldier for bravery in Afghanistan, which could
make him the first living recipient since the Vietnam War.

LOAD-DATE: July 3, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: BRIEF

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                  Copyright 2010 St. Louis Post-Dispatch, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              42 of 137 DOCUMENTS


                       St. Louis Post-Dispatch (Missouri)

                              July 2, 2010 Friday
                                 FIRST EDITION

DIGEST

BYLINE: From news services|||

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. A11

LENGTH: 546 words

DATELINE: 0


Obama calls for immigration reform

In his first major speech on the issue, President Barack Obama on Thursday
called for immigration reform legislation that would include a pathway to
citizenship for the country's estimated 11 million illegal immigrants but said
it could not happen without Republican support.

Flood insurance bill passes - The Senate approved the House-passed extension to
the National Flood Insurance Program, which expired June 1, enabling insurers to
issue and renew policies as soon as President Barack Obama signs the
legislation. The bill extends the flood insurance program through Sept. 30.
Since March, program authorization has lapsed three times.

Obama signs Iran bill - President Barack Obama signed into law a bill imposing
new sanctions against Iran over its nuclear program that the United States
suspects is aimed at developing weapons.

Chelsea Clinton's wedding set - Chelsea Clinton's marriage to Marc Mezvinsky
will be held in the upstate New York village of Rhinebeck on July 31.Though
there has been no official announcement, scores of people have been hired to fix
up the grounds of the private mansion and to provide food, lodging and other
services.

Shuttle launching rescheduled - NASA announced that it would move the final
launching of the space shuttle to February 2011. The reason: delays in
processing a final load of spare parts for the international space station. The
last flight had been scheduled for this November.

Waste found in heating, cooling program - A federal program designed to help
impoverished families heat and cool their homes wasted more than $100 million
paying the electric bills of thousands of applicants who were dead, in prison or
living in million-dollar mansions, according to a government investigation.

Health care website set up - The federal government has launched a website aimed
at taking the guesswork out of finding a health care plan. Late Wednesday night,
the Department of Health and Human Services unveiled HealthCare.gov dedicated to
helping people navigate their health insurance options and understand the
provisions in the recently passed health care reform law. The website was a
requirement listed in the health care law passed in March.

Monuments bill proposed - Rep. Devin Nunes, R-Calif., introduced a bill to limit
the president's power to establish national monuments that he says would
endanger the livelihoods of thousands of loggers, miners and farmers. The bill
would let lawmakers weigh in on a president's designation of public land as new
national monuments.

GOP energized, survey finds - Republican voters are far more energized and
engaged than Democrats about the November congressional elections, a trend that
could mean a "solid victory" for the GOP, according to a new Pew Research Center
national survey.

$20 million for victim - The California Assembly approved a $20 million
settlement for Jaycee Dugard, who was kidnapped and held captive for 18 years.
State justice officials recommended the award, which still must be approved by
the state Senate.

Medal of Honor proposed - The military has sent the White House a recommendation
to award the Medal of Honor to a soldier for bravery in Afghanistan, which could
make him the first living recipient since the Vietnam War.

LOAD-DATE: July 2, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: BRIEF

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                  Copyright 2010 St. Louis Post-Dispatch, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              43 of 137 DOCUMENTS


                       St. Louis Post-Dispatch (Missouri)

                              July 12, 2010 Monday
                                 SECOND EDITION

NATION DIGEST

BYLINE: From news services

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. A4

LENGTH: 433 words

DATELINE: 0


Holder may sue Arizona second time

Attorney General Eric Holder said Sunday that he may sue Arizona a second time
if he finds its immigration law leads to racial profiling. Holder, speaking on
CBS' "Face the Nation," said the lawsuit against Arizona made scant mention of
racial profiling because a stronger argument against the law was that it
pre-empts the federal government's responsibility in deciding immigration
policies.

Holder denied suing Arizona for political reasons so as to brand Republicans as
"anti-immigrant" or "anti-Hispanic."

Gibbs: Party in trouble - President Barack Obama's party could lose its House
majority in this fall's elections, his spokesman said Sunday, perhaps trying to
jolt Democratic voters. "I think there's no doubt there are enough seats in play
that could cause Republicans to gain control. There's no doubt about that,"
press secretary Robert Gibbs told NBC's "Meet the Press."

Democrats hold a 255-178 edge in the House, with two vacancies in the 435-member
chamber.

Palin gives $87,500 - Sarah Palin's political action committee contributed at
least $87,500 to candidates she's endorsed in the last few months, according to
a report filed Sunday with the Federal Elections Commission.

Candidates receiving money from Palin for the period covering April 1 to June 30
include Terry Branstad, who won last month's Republican gubernatorial primary in
Iowa; and Joe Miller, who is challenging Sen. Lisa Murkowski in Alaska's GOP
primary. Each received $5,000. Palin still has $1 million to give this year, PAC
treasurer Tim Crawford said.

Nuclear waste numbers disputed - The amount of plutonium buried at the Hanford
Nuclear Reservation in Washington state is nearly three times what the federal
government previously reported, a new analysis indicates, suggesting that a
cleanup to protect future generations will be far more challenging than planners
had assumed.

Plutonium waste is much more prevalent around nuclear weapons sites nationwide
than the Energy Department's official accounting indicates, said Robert Alvarez,
a former department official who in recent months reanalyzed studies conducted
by the department in the last 15 years for Hanford; the Idaho National
Engineering Laboratory; the Savannah River Site, near Aiken, S.C.; and
elsewhere.

Pot bust - Authorities say 12 members of a Southern California ring that
illegally sold millions of dollars of pot through medical marijuana dispensaries
are behind bars and facing federal charges. At one dispensary, agents found two
secret rooms behind a moveable bookshelf where pot was being illegally grown.

LOAD-DATE: July 13, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: BRIEF

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                  Copyright 2010 St. Louis Post-Dispatch, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              44 of 137 DOCUMENTS


                       St. Louis Post-Dispatch (Missouri)

                              July 16, 2010 Friday
                                 THIRD EDITION

Untangling complexity Our view o Immigration policy defies simplistic solutions.

SECTION: EDITORIAL; Pg. A18

LENGTH: 596 words

DATELINE: 0


Americans should demand more from their public policy makers than bumper-sticker
rhetoric like "What part of illegal don't you understand?"

As the national debate about immigration policy moves off the back burner,
Americans should be wiser than many of their leaders, including those in Arizona
who in April passed the strict and simplistic immigration law that brought the
controversial issue to the forefront.

Next week, the U.S. Justice Department will begin arguing in federal court for a
temporary restraining order to stop Arizona from putting its new law into effect
on July 29.

The state law requires local law enforcement officials to check the immigration
status of people "where a reasonable suspicion exists that a person is an alien
who is unlawfully in the United States." That "show us your papers" order should
be anathema to every American.

In bringing suit, the Obama administration made a risky political calculation.
National Latino and civil rights organizations already had filed similar
lawsuits contending that immigration policy is a federal role that trumps state
or local law. The administration could have let them carry the ball; instead it
intervened directly.

It was the right decision, even though some Democrats cringed that it wasn't
politically wise in an election year. This is a profoundly important civil
rights issue, made all the more obvious by Republicans trumpeting the issue of
"states' rights."

Wasn't that battle cry buried with George Wallace and Lester Maddox?

Apparently not. Two Republican senators from southern states - Jim DeMint of
South Carolina and David Vitter of Louisiana - have proposed an amendment to a
Senate bill set for debate next week that would bar the federal government from
blocking implementation of the Arizona law.

Then there's the fear-mongering of Arizona Gov. Jan Brewer. She declared that a
"majority" of illegal immigrants smuggle drugs into the country and that illegal
immigrants have caused a huge spike in violent crime, including beheadings and
kidnappings.

Federal, state and local law enforcement authorities say crime statistics bear
no such evidence.

Border states and, indeed, the nation need more federal resources to combat
immigration-related problems. The Obama administration has added millions of
dollars to the Department of Homeland Security operations along the
international borders and audited payroll records of more than 2,900 companies
that resulted in more than $3 million in fines and firings of thousands of
illegal immigrants.

For almost 25 years, the nation has needed sound, effective immigration reform
that deals sensibly with illegal immigration as well as workplace enforcement,
legal immigration, economic needs and border security.

But now, with polarized lines drawn, any prospect of thoughtful, fact-based
immigration reform seems like a pipe dream.

People migrate here to work. The legal foreign-born population in the United
States outnumbers illegal immigrants more than 3 to 1. They come here to teach,
practice medicine, open businesses and work in hotels and restaurants. You
encounter them every day.

Simplistic solutions like Arizona's ignore the dozens and dozens of ways that
people come to the United States, from political refugees to foreign student
visas to family ties. What part of legal don't you understand?

Most Americans, including street cops, have no clue about the legal complexity
and inefficiency of the U.S. immigration system. Beat cops have enough
challenges without requiring them to decipher Byzantine civil immigration codes.
Let the cops be cops.

LOAD-DATE: July 17, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: EDITORIAL

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                  Copyright 2010 St. Louis Post-Dispatch, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              45 of 137 DOCUMENTS


                       St. Louis Post-Dispatch (Missouri)

                             August 1, 2010 Sunday
                                 FIRST EDITION

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. A6

LENGTH: 1234 words


Bachmann cancels St. Louis campaign appearance U.S. Rep. Michele Bachmann,
R-Minn., canceled a scheduled campaign appearance in St. Louis on Saturday for
GOP Senate candidate Roy Blunt. Bachmann's office said she was hospitalized with
a "sudden illness" but declined to reveal the nature of the ailment.

Bachmann's decision to back Blunt has angered some Tea Party groups in Missouri
in the past week. The controversy prompted some Missouri Democrats to speculate
that Bachmann might change her mind about going to St. Louis. Her spokesman said
the cancellation was connected to her recovery. Court won't hear Arizona's
appeal until November o A federal appeals court has decided not to step into the
controversy over Arizona's tough immigration law until November. Gov. Jan Brewer
asked for an expedited appeals process, with a hearing scheduled for the week of
Sept. 13. However, the 9th U.S. Circuit Court of Appeals said in an order late
Friday that it would hold its hearing in the fi rst week of November. Briefs
from the state are due Aug. 26. Meanwhile, the Maricopa County Sheriff's Office
arrested 36 people in a sweep Thursday and Friday, and six are suspected to be
illegal immigrants. Everyone arrested was stopped for traffic violations. The
six suspected illegal immigrants were arrested on charges of failure to provide
identification and will be turned over to U.S. Immigration and Customs
Enforcement to be deported. Hacking could become inexpensive o A computer
security researcher says he has built a device for just $1,500 that can
intercept some kinds of cell phone calls and record everything that's said. The
researcher, Chris Paget, planned to show off the device Saturday in a talk at
the DefCon hacker conference, but reconsidered after federal authorities told
him it might violate wiretapping laws. His research shows how cheaply such
devices, which have been around for decades, can now be made. Obama warns GOP o
President Barack Obama has a warning for Republicans who denounce the federal
deficit but reject proposals to cut it. Obama tells CBS, "I'm going to call them
on their bluff." Obama's interview was taped Friday and will air on CBS's
"Sunday Morning" and "The Early Show" on Monday. Pacific drills ending o
Monthlong military drills in the Pacific, which conclude this weekend, were
intended only as training exercises and were not meant to send a message to
North Korea, the commander of the drills says. Vice Adm. Richard W. Hunt said
the biennial 14-nation Rim of the Pacific military exercises had been planned
for two years and were not a reaction to North Korea's accusation earlier this
month that the U.S. and South Korea were plotting to attack. Wildfire smolders o
A wildfire smoldered in the high desert north of Los Angeles on Saturday,
spewing plumes of thick smoke into Palmdale (population 139,000). The fi re has
charred nearly 22 square miles in the Antelope Valley. It was 62 percent
contained Saturday and no structures were threatened, said fi re officials.
Fraud case o Investigators in Mississippi say two men wrapped blocks of wood in
duct tape and bubble wrap, attached Toshiba labels and tried to pass them off as
laptops. No one bought them, but the men were still arrested and charged. From
news services DIGEST A6 o ST. LOUIS POST-DISPATCH M 2 o SUNDAY o 08.01.2010
Things we want you to know: New two-year agreement (subject to early termination
fee) and credit approval required. A $30 activation fee may apply. Regulatory
Cost Recovery Fee applies; this is not a tax or government-required charge.
Additional fees, taxes, terms, conditions and coverage areas apply and vary by
plan, service and phone. Use of ser vice constitutes acceptance of the terms of
our Customer Ser vice Agreement. Promotional Phone subject to change. Mail-in
rebate will be paid by U.S. Cellular in the form of a U.S. Cellular Visa Debit
Card. U.S. Cellular Visa Debit Card issued by MetaBank pursuant to a license
from Visa U.S.A. Inc. Allow 10-12 weeks for processing. Card does not have cash
access and can be used at any merchant location that accepts Visa Debit Cards.
Card valid for 120 days af ter issued. Required Data Plan is $30 per month.
Application and data network usage charges may apply when accessing
applications. $20 Vir tual Account: $20 vir tual accounts are issued by
MetaBank. Credit must be redeemed by 11/1/10. Customer must have or create a
Google Checkout account in order to redeem. Credit will be processed within 4 to
8 hours and provided to customer via e-mail. Once redeemed, credit is valid for
120 days. Vir tual account funds can be used only for online purchases with
Google Checkout. BOGO : Buy one handset and get a second handset for free.
Mail-in rebate and activation required on each handset. See store for details or
visit uscellular.com. Limited-time offer. Android, Android Market, Gmail and
Google Maps are all trademarks of Google, Inc. Trademarks and trade names are
the proper ty of their respective owners. ©2010 U.S. Cellular.
FormoreinformationaboutourAndroid:visituscellular.com/androidorcall - -BUY-USCC
oAccesstoover , usefulandexcitingapps-allreadilyavailablefromAndroidMarketTM
oFasterbrowsingspeedsoyoucannavigatetheWebmoreeasily
oFullaccesstoGmail,TMGoogleMapsTMandGoogleTalkonyourphone
OurexclusivenewSamsungAcclaim TMgivesyouallthe
advantagesofanAndroidphone,including: ANDROID TM IS now AT U. S. CELLULAR. ®
Follow us on Facebook.® Have a few apps on us. Get$ forcoolappsfromAndroidMarket
whenyoubuytheSamsungAcclaim.TM $20 virtual accounts are issued by MetaBank.TM
SAMSUNGACCLAIM get one free when you buy one for $9995 After $70 mail-in rebates
that come as Visa® Debit Cards. Requires new 2-yr. agmts. and applicable Data
Plans. $30 act. fees may apply. NATION Coast Guard ignored EPA on dispersants,
data show The Coast Guard approved doz- ens of requests by BP to spread hundreds
of thousands of gallons of surface oil dispersants in the Gulf of Mexico,
despite the En- vironmental Protection Agency's directive on May 26 that they
should be used only rarely, ac- cording to documents and cor- respondence
analyzed by a con- gressional subcommittee. In some cases, the Coast Guard
approved BP's requests even though the company did not set an upper limit on the
amount of dispersant it planned to use. The dispersants contributed to "a toxic
stew of chemicals, oil and gas, with impacts that are not well understood," Rep.
Edward Markey, D-Mass., the chairman of the House Subcommittee on Energy and
Environment, wrote in a letter sent late Friday to Thad Allen, the retired Coast
Guard admiral who is leading the federal response to the oil spill. In a
conference call Satur- day, Allen and Lisa Jackson, the EPA administrator, said
they had worked together closely and were close to achieving the agen- cy's goal
of reducing dispersant amounts by 75 percent. On May 26, the EPA directed BP to
stop using dispersants on the ocean surface, except in "rare cases when there
may have to be an exemption," and to limit use of the chemicals underwater. But
Markey's letter pointed to more than 74 exemption requests
in48days,ofwhichallbut10were approved by the Coast Guard. In some cases, BP
asked for permis- sion after it had already applied the chemicals, the letter
said. A spokesman said BP could not respond because it had not seen Markey's
letter. BY MATTHEW L. WALD o New York Times

LOAD-DATE: August 1, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                  Copyright 2010 St. Louis Post-Dispatch, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              46 of 137 DOCUMENTS


                       St. Louis Post-Dispatch (Missouri)

                             August 1, 2010 Sunday
                                 FOURTH EDITION

NATION Digest

BYLINE: From news services

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. A6

LENGTH: 540 words

DATELINE: 0


Bachmann cancels St. Louis campaign appearance

U.S. Rep. Michele Bachmann, R-Minn., canceled a scheduled campaign appearance in
St. Louis on Saturday for GOP Senate candidate Roy Blunt. Bachmann's office said
she was hospitalized with a "sudden illness" but declined to reveal the nature
of the ailment.

Bachmann's decision to back Blunt has angered some Tea Party groups in Missouri
in the past week. The controversy prompted some Missouri Democrats to speculate
that Bachmann might change her mind about going to St. Louis. Her spokesman said
the cancellation was connected to her recovery.

Court won't hear Arizona's appeal until November - A federal appeals court has
decided not to step into the controversy over Arizona's tough immigration law
until November. Gov. Jan Brewer asked for an expedited appeals process, with a
hearing scheduled for the week of Sept. 13. However, the 9th U.S. Circuit Court
of Appeals said in an order late Friday that it would hold its hearing in the
first week of November. Briefs from the state are due Aug. 26.

Meanwhile, the Maricopa County Sheriff's Office arrested 36 people in a sweep
Thursday and Friday, and six are suspected to be illegal immigrants. Everyone
arrested was stopped for traffic violations. The six suspected illegal
immigrants were arrested on charges of failure to provide identification and
will be turned over to U.S. Immigration and Customs Enforcement to be deported.

Hacking could become inexpensive - A computer security researcher says he has
built a device for just $1,500 that can intercept some kinds of cell phone calls
and record everything that's said. The researcher, Chris Paget, planned to show
off the device Saturday in a talk at the DefCon hacker conference, but
reconsidered after federal authorities told him it might violate wiretapping
laws. His research shows how cheaply such devices, which have been around for
decades, can now be made.

Obama warns GOP - President Barack Obama has a warning for Republicans who
denounce the federal deficit but reject proposals to cut it. Obama tells CBS,
"I'm going to call them on their bluff." Obama's interview was taped Friday and
will air on CBS's "Sunday Morning" and "The Early Show" on Monday.

Pacific drills ending - Monthlong military drills in the Pacific, which conclude
this weekend, were intended only as training exercises and were not meant to
send a message to North Korea, the commander of the drills says. Vice Adm.
Richard W. Hunt said the biennial 14-nation Rim of the Pacific military
exercises had been planned for two years and were not a reaction to North
Korea's accusation earlier this month that the U.S. and South Korea were
plotting to attack.

Wildfire smolders - A wildfire smoldered in the high desert north of Los Angeles
on Saturday, spewing plumes of thick smoke into Palmdale (population 139,000).
The fire has charred nearly 22 square miles in the Antelope Valley. It was 62
percent contained Saturday and no structures were threatened, said fire
officials.

Fraud case - Investigators in Mississippi say two men wrapped blocks of wood in
duct tape and bubble wrap, attached Toshiba labels and tried to pass them off as
laptops. No one bought them, but the men were still arrested and charged.

LOAD-DATE: August 2, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: BRIEF

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                  Copyright 2010 St. Louis Post-Dispatch, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              47 of 137 DOCUMENTS


                       St. Louis Post-Dispatch (Missouri)

                            August 5, 2010 Thursday
                                 THIRD EDITION

A long legal road Immigration o Federal injunction against Arizona law should
prompt Missourians to review their own efforts. OTHER VIEWS

BYLINE: By Ken Schmitt

SECTION: EDITORIAL; Pg. A15

LENGTH: 765 words

DATELINE: 0


A week ago, U.S. District Court Judge Susan Bolton enjoined Arizona from
enforcing the most controversial aspects of its new immigration law, as civil
rights groups and the U.S. Justice Department had advocated. Bolton's temporary
injunction is only the first step in what likely will be a long and complicated
road to eventually resolve how far a state may go in imposing its own scheme of
immigration regulation.

After all, United States v. State of Arizona, et al. is one of seven federal
court challenges to Arizona Senate Bill 1070, six of which are before Bolton.

Although only a relatively small portion of the entire bill was before the court
on the federal government's injunction hearing, there is much clamoring about
what the court's ruling means for Missouri's 2008 anti-immigrant legislation,
House Bill 1549.

In some respects, the answer is: "very little." For example, Missouri's
immigration law does not create new criminal offenses for failing to carry a
registration card or for seeking unauthorized employment, as Arizona's law
attempted to create. Neither, by the way, does federal law.

However, a careful reading of Bolton's order relating to Arizona's
"show-me-your-papers" provisions calls into question Missouri's similar
provision in its 2008 immigration law being touted this year by several
legislative candidates running for office using the "get tough 'n kick'em out"
platform.

The Arizona statute requires that any person arrested shall have his or her
immigration status confirmed before being released. Missouri law, post HB 1549,
provides that upon arrest, whenever a person's immigration status cannot be
determined by the documents on the person or by a reasonable effort, his status
shall be determined with an inquiry to the federal government.

Bolton ruled that this Arizona provision likely will be shown to impose an
impermissible burden on federal authorities and force the diversion of federal
resources away from federal priorities to satisfy Arizona's demands. If Bolton
is correct, Arizona's law clearly is pre-empted by federal law and Missouri's
law cannot be far behind on the way to the pre-emption trash bin.

Arizona's "show-me-your-papers" provision goes even farther than Missouri's, and
applies to any lawful stop (in addition to any detention or arrest), even
without probable cause sufficient to otherwise make an arrest for a separate
crime. Presumably, this permits the "lack of papers" law to be enough to
authorize an arrest in Arizona.

There's no doubt about the intent of the Arizona law's drafters, made clear in a
well-circulated e-mail from Kris Kobach, the University of Missouri-Kansas City
law professor who wrote the Arizona law. He directed it to Arizona state senator
Russell Pearce, one of the law's sponsors.

His e-mail states that Arizona's "show-me-your-papers" provision should be
extended to municipal ordinance enforcement to allow a police officer to demand
papers upon noticing minor building code violations such as "too many occupants
of a rental accommodation" or "cars on blocks in the yard."

But the real disconcerting aspect of the recent reaction to Bolton's injunction
is the rush by many Missouri legislators to "assure" us that Missouri's
immigration statute actually is much "tougher" than Arizona's. It's as if it is
virtuous to be the most immigrant-unfriendly place in an effort to force
compliance with our dysfunctional immigration system.

Never mind that these laws disrupt legitimate law enforcement priorities and
constitutional principles of equal protection and due process as well as the
lives of American families. Never mind how or why the underlying immigration
system remains hopelessly flawed and the injustices that would inevitably result
from attempts to force compliance through Arizona-styled coercion. The attitude
is: "the law is the law, no matter how bad that law may be, and compliance must
be enforced or coerced, one way or the other."

Much has been said, quite inaccurately, about the federal government's refusal
to enforce immigration law. In fact, the federal government has dramatically
increased, by more than double, the resources committed to border enforcement,
internal immigration enforcement and removal proceedings in the last seven
years. Removals and deportations actually are at an all-time high. But it is
clear that enforcement alone has failed and will continue to fail.

It's time to consider that while some Arizonans and Missourians dwell on tougher
enforcement, our broken immigration system itself is the problem.

---

Ken Schmitt is a St. Louis immigration lawyer.

LOAD-DATE: August 6, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: COMMENTARY

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                  Copyright 2010 St. Louis Post-Dispatch, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              48 of 137 DOCUMENTS


                       St. Louis Post-Dispatch (Missouri)

                             August 13, 2010 Friday
                                 SECOND EDITION

ASK THE EXPERT - What precautions should a contractor take in working with
subcontractors to avoid immigration problems? REAL ESTATE AND CONSTRUCTION

BYLINE: Charlie Morgan, attorney The Lowenbaum Partnership

SECTION: BUSINESS; Pg. B4

LENGTH: 330 words

DATELINE: 0


Contractors often overlook potential immigration problems when using
subcontractors. Most contractors have policies and procedures for screening
individuals they hire to ensure they have proper documentation that establishes
their eligibility to work in the U.S. At their peril, contractors assume their
subcontractors will use the same safeguards in hiring workers.

Making sure workers are in the country legally is important because federal and
state law make a contractor responsible for its subcontractor's actions with
regard to the immigration laws. A subcontractor's violation of immigration laws
will likely be put on the contractor. As a result, the contractor may get
penalized.

We advise contractors to take a number of steps. First, if the job involves
state or federal funds, the contractor should obtain an affidavit that the
subcontractor screens its employees with the federal E-Verify program.

Second, the agreement between the contractor and subcontractor must include a
provision stating that the subcontractor has taken appropriate steps to ensure
its employees can work in the U.S.

Third, the contractor should demand that the subcontractor indemnify the
contractor for any penalties, costs or attorney fees associated with
noncompliance with immigration laws.

Finally, the contractor should ensure its subcontractor is a viable company.
This is because an indemnification clause is effective only if the subcontractor
is able to live up to the obligations in the agreement. We have seen instances
in which a subcontractor has promised to meet certain obligations, such as
ensuring immigration compliance, only to see the subcontractor disappear when an
issue comes to light.

Therefore, a contractor must perform its due diligence on subcontractors to
ensure it is dealing with reputable companies. Otherwise, contractors may end up
with unintended and unanticipated liabilities.

---

Charlie Morgan, attorney The Lowenbaum Partnership 314-746-4806
cmorgan@lowenbaumlaw.com

LOAD-DATE: August 13, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES:  ask the expert Charlie Morgan, attorney The Lowenbaum Partnership
314-746-4806 cmorgan@lowenbaumlaw.com

GRAPHIC:  Charlie Morgan

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                  Copyright 2010 St. Louis Post-Dispatch, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              49 of 137 DOCUMENTS


                       St. Louis Post-Dispatch (Missouri)

                           August 25, 2010 Wednesday
                                 THIRD EDITION

DIGEST - NATION

BYLINE: From news services

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. A8

LENGTH: 403 words

DATELINE: 0


FDA posts calorie rules

Consumers will be aware of the number of calories in food from many chain
restaurants and vending machines under draft guidelines released Tuesday by the
Food and Drug Administration. The menu labeling guidelines require that calorie
information be posted in the same size type as the menu item or price, whichever
is larger. Vending machines must include the information in a "clear and
conspicuous" manner.

Boehner blames pair - Rep. John Boehner of Ohio, the House Republican leader,
called on President Barack Obama to fire his top economic advisers. In a speech
at the City Club of Cleveland, Boehner said Treasury Secretary Timothy Geithner
and Lawrence Summers, the head of the National Economic Council, should be
replaced.

Immigration cases being dropped - The Department of Homeland Security is
systematically reviewing thousands of pending immigration cases and moving to
dismiss those filed against suspected illegal immigrants who have no serious
criminal records, according to sources. It has stunned Houston immigration
attorneys, who have reported coming to court anticipating clients' deportations
only to learn that the government was dismissing their cases.

Deadline criticized - The commandant of the Marine Corps, Gen. James Conway,
said that President Barack Obama's July 2011 deadline to begin American troop
withdrawals from Afghanistan was "probably giving our enemy sustenance." It was
by far the most sharply worded public remark from a senior military commander
about the timetable.

Rally angers King supporters - Glenn Beck said he didn't intend to schedule
Saturday's "Restoring Honor" rally in front of the Lincoln Memorial on the
anniversary of Martin Luther King's "I Have a Dream" speech. Civil rights
leaders aligned with Democrats are upset and said they will hold a march to
protest.

'Tax Lady' accused of fraud - Roni Lynn Deutch, a minor celebrity because of TV
ads that run in St. Louis and other cities offering to get the IRS off your
back, was sued by California for fraud. The lawsuit demands that she return $34
million to customers and put an immediate halt to her advertising.

Bonuses for speed - Daun Winslow, a performance division manager for Transocean,
testified at a federal hearing Tuesday on the Deepwater Horizon disaster that
his company gave financial bonuses to workers based in part on how quickly they
made mechanical repairs to an oil rig.

LOAD-DATE: August 25, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC:  Alex Garcia  o  Chicago Tribune  An alligator that captivated Chicago
as it enjoyed the Chicago River was caught on Tuesday. It was the second
alligator caught in the Chicago River this month. Experts believe both are
abandoned pets.

DOCUMENT-TYPE: BRIEF

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                  Copyright 2010 St. Louis Post-Dispatch, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              50 of 137 DOCUMENTS


                       St. Louis Post-Dispatch (Missouri)

                            September 6, 2010 Monday
                                 FIRST EDITION

Tough talk from Missourians

BYLINE: BY PHILIP DINE o Special to the Post-Dispatch

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. A1

LENGTH: 654 words

DATELINE: 0


For a state that has been largely absent from the public debate over
immigration, Missouri's places, politicians and professors have been
surprisingly involved in a variety of ways.

Valley Park, John Ashcroft and University of Missouri-Kansas City Professor Kris
Kobach have all helped shape the current push among states and municipalities
around the country to get tough on immigration enforcement.

The new environment after the terrorist attacks of Sept. 11, 2001, caused
immigration - which until then had been debated largely on economic grounds - to
be viewed as well through the prism of national security. That put a damper on
what had been a strong push to reform the nation's immigration system.

Ashcroft, Missouri's former governor and senator, was serving in 2001 as
attorney general, the nation's top law enforcement official. In that capacity,
he reversed the opinions of his six immediate predecessors by telling local
police they could enforce immigration laws.

This helped spread the immigration flow away from the six states that had
previously received the overwhelming share and to urban areas where sentiment
over immigration was less polarized and rural areas with poultry or meat-packing
plants. Immigrants felt they might be less subject to scrutiny in these
"quieter" places.

That, in turn, began to arouse political reaction in places unused to this
phenomenon, including small municipalities and rural areas of Missouri.

As the immigration issue grew increasingly controversial, legislators in
Washington couldn't agree whether to broadly reform policy or simply get tough
on illegal immigration and close the borders. The resulting inaction led to
frustration among some state and local authorities, who decided to take their
own steps.

Hazleton, a town in Pennsylvania, acted first, followed by St. Louis County's
Valley Park, whose "Illegal Immigration Relief Act Ordinance" of 2006 targeted
employers who hired or landlords who rented to illegal immigrants.

The Missouri case assumed prime importance when Hazleton's measure was struck
down by the courts - shining the national legal spotlight on Valley Park - and
the subsequent upholding of parts of the local ordinance was a pivotal moment in
the immigration controversy.

It sparked political infighting among leaders in Valley Park, led to some
dramatic events, including immigrants taking refuge in a church, spawned tougher
enforcement by some surrounding communities and gave rise to a variety of legal
actions.

On a national level, it encouraged similar action by other communities, helping
inspire in 2007 alone the introduction in state legislatures of 1,100
immigration bills - many of them restrictive in nature - and multitudes of local
ordinances.

Many immigration measures, including in Hazleton, Valley Park and Arizona, were
written by UMKC's Kobach, who had been a top aide in Washington to Ashcroft on
immigration matters.

"There is a well-organized, well-funded effort to help states craft, and defend,
immigration measures. The movement is really being spearheaded by Kris Kobach,"
says Richard Middleton, an immigration lawyer in St. Louis, associate professor
of political science at the University of Missouri-St. Louis and adjunct law
professor at St. Louis University.

After Ashcroft left office, Kobach signed on to teach constitutional law at
UMKC, and from that perch he has become the "intellectual father" of much of the
nationwide anti-immigration fervor in recent years, helping write legislation
and ordinances from Arizona to Cherokee County in Georgia.

John Ammann, a St. Louis University law professor who led a legal fight against
the Valley Park ordinance, says Kobach is "traveling around the country enticing
communities to express anti-immigrant sentiment, stirring reasonable people into
a frenzy."

"Tell me the borders of Valley Park are safer now than before the litigation.
There wasn't a problem to begin with."

LOAD-DATE: September 6, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                  Copyright 2010 St. Louis Post-Dispatch, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              51 of 137 DOCUMENTS


                       St. Louis Post-Dispatch (Missouri)

                            September 6, 2010 Monday
                                 THIRD EDITION

Tough talk, action in Missouri ST. LOUIS IMMIGRATION

BYLINE: BY PHILIP DINE o Special to the Post-Dispatch

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. A1

LENGTH: 654 words

DATELINE: 0


For a state that has been largely absent from the public debate over
immigration, Missouri's places, politicians and professors have been
surprisingly involved in a variety of ways.

Valley Park, John Ashcroft and University of Missouri-Kansas City Professor Kris
Kobach have all helped shape the current push among states and municipalities
around the country to get tough on immigration enforcement.

The new environment after the terrorist attacks of Sept. 11, 2001, caused
immigration - which until then had been debated largely on economic grounds - to
be viewed as well through the prism of national security. That put a damper on
what had been a strong push to reform the nation's immigration system.

Ashcroft, Missouri's former governor and senator, was serving in 2001 as
attorney general, the nation's top law enforcement official. In that capacity,
he reversed the opinions of his six immediate predecessors by telling local
police they could enforce immigration laws.

This helped spread the immigration flow away from the six states that had
previously received the overwhelming share and to urban areas where sentiment
over immigration was less polarized and rural areas with poultry or meat-packing
plants. Immigrants felt they might be less subject to scrutiny in these
"quieter" places.

That, in turn, began to arouse political reaction in places unused to this
phenomenon, including small municipalities and rural areas of Missouri.

As the immigration issue grew increasingly controversial, legislators in
Washington couldn't agree whether to broadly reform policy or simply get tough
on illegal immigration and close the borders. The resulting inaction led to
frustration among some state and local authorities, who decided to take their
own steps.

Hazleton, a town in Pennsylvania, acted first, followed by St. Louis County's
Valley Park, whose "Illegal Immigration Relief Act Ordinance" of 2006 targeted
employers who hired or landlords who rented to illegal immigrants.

The Missouri case assumed prime importance when Hazleton's measure was struck
down by the courts - shining the national legal spotlight on Valley Park - and
the subsequent upholding of parts of the local ordinance was a pivotal moment in
the immigration controversy.

It sparked political infighting among leaders in Valley Park, led to some
dramatic events, including immigrants taking refuge in a church, spawned tougher
enforcement by some surrounding communities and gave rise to a variety of legal
actions.

On a national level, it encouraged similar action by other communities, helping
inspire in 2007 alone the introduction in state legislatures of 1,100
immigration bills - many of them restrictive in nature - and multitudes of local
ordinances.

Many immigration measures, including in Hazleton, Valley Park and Arizona, were
written by UMKC's Kobach, who had been a top aide in Washington to Ashcroft on
immigration matters.

"There is a well-organized, well-funded effort to help states craft, and defend,
immigration measures. The movement is really being spearheaded by Kris Kobach,"
says Richard Middleton, an immigration lawyer in St. Louis, associate professor
of political science at the University of Missouri-St. Louis and adjunct law
professor at St. Louis University.

After Ashcroft left office, Kobach signed on to teach constitutional law at
UMKC, and from that perch he has become the "intellectual father" of much of the
nationwide anti-immigration fervor in recent years, helping write legislation
and ordinances from Arizona to Cherokee County in Georgia.

John Ammann, a St. Louis University law professor who led a legal fight against
the Valley Park ordinance, says Kobach is "traveling around the country enticing
communities to express anti-immigrant sentiment, stirring reasonable people into
a frenzy."

"Tell me the borders of Valley Park are safer now than before the litigation.
There wasn't a problem to begin with."

LOAD-DATE: September 7, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: SERIES

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                  Copyright 2010 St. Louis Post-Dispatch, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              52 of 137 DOCUMENTS


                       St. Louis Post-Dispatch (Missouri)

                            October 25, 2010 Monday
                                 THIRD EDITION

Noncitizen vets face deportation Law passed in 1996 expanded crimes for which
they could be expelled. THE MILITARY

BYLINE: By JULIANA BARBASSA o Associated Press

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. A11

LENGTH: 778 words

DATELINE: 0


SAN FRANCISCO - When Rohan Coombs joined the Marine Corps, he never thought one
day he would be locked up in an immigration detention center and facing
deportation from the country he had vowed to defend.

Coombs, 43, born in Jamaica, immigrated to the United States legally as a child
with his family. He signed up to serve his adopted nation for six years - first
in Japan and the Philippines, then in the Persian Gulf during the first war with
Iraq.

As many as 8,000 noncitizens enlist in the U.S. armed forces every year and
serve alongside American troops. As of May 2010, there were 16,966 noncitizens
on active duty. The military does not allow illegal immigrants to enlist.

If noncitizens die while serving, they are given citizenship and a military
funeral. If they live and get in trouble with the law, as Coombs did, they can
get caught in the net of a 1996 immigration law that greatly expanded the list
of crimes for which noncitizens can be deported.

Now advocates of noncitizen servicemen and women are trying to change that.
Attorneys are taking cases such as Coombs' to court, arguing that an immigrant
who serves in the armed forces should be considered a U.S. national and
protected from deportation.

Rep. Bob Filner, D-Calif., chairman of the House Veterans' Affairs Committee, is
looking into potential changes to the law so immigrants who serve in the
military can avoid deportation.

"You come back from Iraq or Afghanistan today, you have put yourself on the line
for this country," said Filner. "An incredible number of kids come back with an
injury or illness that puts them in trouble with the law. To simply have these
people deported is not a good way to thank them for their service."

Advocates estimate that thousands of veterans have been deported or are in
detention. Government officials say they have no tally but plan to begin
tracking the numbers.

Coombs spent 10 months in the Persian Gulf and lost friends to combat, he said.
After the war, he felt depressed and anxious. His family was far away in New
York. He got involved with drugs, and he got caught.

In 1992, he was court-martialed for possession of cocaine and marijuana with the
intent to distribute, and was given 18 months of confinement and a dishonorable
discharge. In 2008, he was busted for selling marijuana. He spent eight months
in state prison.

U.S. Immigration and Customs Enforcement found that his convictions made him
eligible for deportation, and he was turned over to ICE after serving his
sentence. He has been held in a San Diego immigration detention center for 22
months and is appealing to the 9th U.S. Circuit Court of Appeals.

On the other side of the country, Dardar Paye is appealing his deportation case
to the U.S. District Court for the Middle District of Pennsylvania.

Paye came to the U.S. from war-torn Liberia as a 13-year-old. He joined the Army
in 1998, serving in Kuwait and then in a NATO peacekeeping mission in Kosovo. He
returned to New Jersey, where his family lives, to spend another year and a half
with the Army National Guard.

In 2008, he was convicted of six weapons-related offenses, including two
involving firearms dealing, and served time in federal prison. Now, like Coombs,
he is facing deportation.

"When I was in Kuwait, in Kosovo, I was like everyone else who was there,
putting their lives on the line," said Paye, who in the Army was an armored
vehicle crewman. "Now I feel like they just used me for what they wanted, and
now they're throwing me away."

Advocates and immigration attorneys say that before the 1996 Illegal Immigrant
Reform and Immigrant Responsibility Act, few immigrant veterans were deported,
because immigration authorities could take their service into consideration.

The law added crimes such as drug possession for sale to the list of serious
crimes that could lead to deportation of a legal immigrant.

"Drugs, anger management, weapons charges, that's what a lot of vets are getting
caught for, and there is no relief," said Margaret Stock, a recently retired
Army reservist and immigration attorney who taught at the U.S. Military Academy
at West Point. "The 1996 law really put the nails in their coffin."

The military has started to offer a fast-track to citizenship to immigrants
currently serving. Now, most joining the Army can expect to be citizens by the
end of basic training. Other branches are expected to join the effort by the end
of the year. That doesn't extend to those who have already served, such as Paye
and Coombs.

"If I had died," said Coombs, they would have made me a citizen, given me a
military funeral, and given the flag to my mom. But I didn't die. Here I am. I
just want another chance."

LOAD-DATE: October 26, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC:  Photo - Coombs Served in Persian Gulf

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                  Copyright 2010 St. Louis Post-Dispatch, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              53 of 137 DOCUMENTS


                       St. Louis Post-Dispatch (Missouri)

                           January 21, 2009 Wednesday
                                 THIRD EDITION

No help for man facing deportation U.S. judge says she has no jurisdiction in
case of German immigrant who is a father here.

BYLINE: By Heather Ratcliffe ST. LOUIS POST-DISPATCH

SECTION: METRO; Pg. B2

LENGTH: 394 words


St. Louis - A German immigrant moved a step closer to a deportation that he says
would tear apart his family after a federal judge ruled Tuesday that she cannot
to help him.

Stefan Lang, 37, a house painter who lives in Florissant, asked last month for a
court order to force immigration authorities to let him appeal his removal, and
to stay in the meantime.

U.S. District Judge Catherine D. Perry said she has no jurisdiction because the
paperwork to adjust his immigration status was not filed on time back in 1998.

"Were I free to decide whether Lang - by all accounts a devoted father - should
be granted lawful permanent resident status, I might well conclude that he could
remain in the United States," Perry wrote in her order. "That decision, however,
cannot be made by me. ... I cannot exercise jurisdiction where Congress has not
provided it."

Lang's lawyer, Raymond Bolourtchi, said they would take the case to the 8th U.S.
Circuit Court of Appeals and ask for mercy from the new leaders at the
Department of Homeland Security.

"We're going to keep this going as far as we can keep it alive," Borourtchi
said.

Lang has permission to remain in the country for about a month, the lawyer said,
and will ask for an additional stay until the case reaches final resolution.

Lang, who married an American during a visit to St. Louis in 1998, testified in
court that he signed his immigration documents on time but that his
then-attorney filed them five days too late.

As a result, he lost the right to appeal immigration decisions, Perry said.

In 1999, Lang got a "green card" allowing him to stay. It was withdrawn three
years later, after his then-wife, Melva Dorsey, wrote a letter to immigration
officials after a lovers' spat, withdrawing her sponsorship. She has since
testified on his behalf.

After Lang and Dorsey split up in 2004, Lang became full-time father of their
daughter and of her daughter from an earlier relationship. Because of concerns
about the ability of the girls' mother or their grandparents to take over, the
family fears Lang's deportation would leave the children wards of the state.

Lang said he did not learn for seven years that the government was seeking to
deport him. In November, he got a letter saying officials were seeking his
immediate removal.

The girls, Isabell, 9, and Andy, 12, both have written to Barack Obama asking
for his help.

LOAD-DATE: January 21, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC:  PHOTO - Lang

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                  Copyright 2009 St. Louis Post-Dispatch, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              54 of 137 DOCUMENTS


                       St. Louis Post-Dispatch (Missouri)

                            February 23, 2009 Monday
                                 THIRD EDITION

Court will hear identity theft case Law's being used to prosecute illegal
immigrants. Nation

BYLINE: By Mark Sherman The Associated Press

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. A13

LENGTH: 373 words

DATELINE: 0


WASHINGTON - Ignacio Carlos Flores-Figueroa, an undocumented worker from Mexico,
made a curious and undeniably bad decision. After working under an assumed name
for six years, he decided to use his real name and exchanged one set of phony
identification numbers for another.

The change made his employer suspicious, and the authorities were called in. The
old numbers were made up, but the new ones he bought happened to belong to real
people. Federal prosecutors said that was enough to label Flores-Figueroa an
identity thief.

The Supreme Court will hear arguments Wednesday on prosecutors' aggressive use
of a new law that was intended to strengthen efforts to combat identity theft.
In at least hundreds of cases last year, workers accused of immigration
violations found themselves facing the more serious identity theft charge as
well, without any indication they knew their counterfeit Social Security and
other identification numbers belonged to actual people.

The government has used the charge, which carries a mandatory two-year minimum
prison term, to persuade people to plead guilty to the lesser immigration
charges and accept prompt deportation.

The case hinges on how the justices resolve this question: Does it matter
whether someone using a phony ID knows it belongs to someone else?

The government, backed by victims' rights groups, says no.

On the other side, Flores-Figueroa and more than 20 immigrants' rights groups,
defense lawyers and privacy experts say that the law Congress passed in 2004 was
aimed at the identity thief who gains access to people's private information to
drain their accounts and run up bills in their names.

Flores-Figueroa acknowledges he used fraudulent documents to get and keep his
job at a steel plant in East Moline, Ill. But he "had no intention of stealing
anyone's identity," his attorneys said in their brief to the court.

Had he been caught while using the fictitious name and numbers that went with
it, he could not have been charged with the more serious offense.

Federal appeals courts in St. Louis - which ruled against Flores-Figueroa -
Atlanta and Richmond, Va., have come down on the government's side. Appeals
courts in Boston, San Francisco and Washington have ruled for defendants.

LOAD-DATE: February 23, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                  Copyright 2009 St. Louis Post-Dispatch, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              55 of 137 DOCUMENTS


                       St. Louis Post-Dispatch (Missouri)

                             June 26, 2010 Saturday
                                 THIRD EDITION

Nation digest

BYLINE: From news services

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. A5

LENGTH: 248 words

DATELINE: 0


Partial lunar eclipse today

There will be a partial lunar eclipse visible in the western United States
today, scheduled to start at 5:17 a.m. St. Louis time and expected to last three
hours. It will be presented at eclipse.gsfc.nasa.gov. Today's partial eclipse is
a preview to the total lunar eclipse in December that will be visible throughout
North America.

Gov. Brewer's comments criticized - Gov. Jan Brewer said Friday that most
illegal immigrants entering Arizona are being used to transport drugs across the
border, an assertion that critics painted as exaggerated and racist. Brewer's
office later issued a statement that said most human smuggling into Arizona is
under the direction of drug cartels, which "are by definition smuggling drugs."

Victim tied to immigrant smuggling - A 15-year-old Mexican boy shot and killed
by a U.S. Border Patrol agent this month was among El Paso's most wanted
juvenile immigrant smugglers, according to federal arrest records. Sergio Adrian
Hernandez Huereka had been arrested at least four times since 2008.

Kellogg recalls cereals - Kellogg Co. is voluntarily recalling about 28 million
boxes of Apple Jacks, Corn Pops, Froot Loops and Honey Smacks cereals because an
unusual smell and flavor from the packages' liners could make people ill.

Wind farm sued - Environmental and watchdog groups claim in a lawsuit that
federal agencies responsible for approving a wind farm off Cape Cod violated
federal law by endangering protected migratory birds.

LOAD-DATE: June 29, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: BRIEF

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                  Copyright 2010 St. Louis Post-Dispatch, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              56 of 137 DOCUMENTS


                       St. Louis Post-Dispatch (Missouri)

                              May 10, 2009 Sunday
                                 FOURTH EDITION

Jail cells are harder sell Detainee downturn o Counties gambled on housing
illegal immigrants awaiting hearings, but some get fewer 'guests.'

BYLINE: By Phillip O'Connor o poconnor@post-dispatch.com > 314-340-8321

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. A1

LENGTH: 1029 words

DATELINE: 0


VERSAILLES, MO. - Housing illegal immigrants helped Morgan County Sheriff Jim
Petty fill his empty jail, hire nearly a dozen new deputies and replace a fleet
of run-down police cruisers with newer SUVs.

"When it's all said and done, it's been a great thing for my business," he said
of the county's contract with U.S. Immigration and Customs Enforcement. Last
year, holding detainees generated 10 percent of the county's budget.

Several communities in Missouri and Illinois gambled on illegal immigration as
an economic development tool, using money earned from housing detainees to
subsidize operations in their counties, most of which are small and rural. They
built or upgraded jails, urged on, they say, by immigration enforcement
officials anxious to find space to house a growing number of detainees.

But in recent months, the number of immigrants being detained in some counties
has dropped, in some cases precipitously. That, in turn, left sizable budget
shortfalls to confront. In some counties, the ICE contract annually accounted
for as much as 60 percent of the jail population and half the law enforcement
budget.

"We do miss them," Lincoln County Sheriff's Lt. Andy Binder said of the 30 to 40
immigration detainees his 216-bed jail averaged on any given day over the last
six years. The county hasn't housed a detainee in months, he said.

"In this economy, it's not easy to find $150,000 lying around in a small
county," Binder said. "It hurts."

Officials say the loss of revenue means budget cuts are on the way. Several of
the counties expect to lay off jailers and those who transport detainees, if the
numbers don't pick up.

No one is sure why the numbers are declining. ICE officials say there has been
no change in policy regarding immigration detention. "(The) detention population
is constantly fluctuating based on a variety of factors," said ICE spokeswoman
Gail Montenegro.

Some experts suspect that the economic downturn and increased enforcement of
immigration laws may be discouraging some from entering the country. None of
that speculation helps the folks who run the 240-bed Tri-County Jail in Ullin,
Ill., about 20 miles north of Cairo in Pulaski County.

Last month, the county housed as many as 194 immigration detainees a day and
talked of expanding. On Thursday, the number had dropped to 134. An additional
26 moved out that night.

At that rate, it won't be long before the county is confronted with serious
economic consequences, said Gayla Jones, who oversees the jail contract for
Pulaski County. The ICE revenue isn't a luxury the county can do without.

"It keeps us running down here in a small jail like this, it really does," Jones
said.

MAKING ENDS MEET

Leaders of Morgan County, which borders Lake of the Ozarks, faced a money
problem almost a decade ago.

The tourist haven had built a new jail just off the courthouse square that was
bigger than needed in hopes that they could charge surrounding counties to house
inmates.

"We needed a way to generate some income," Sheriff Petty said.

Unfortunately, several of the surrounding counties had the same idea. They built
their own jails, and Morgan County's new 93-bed facility often sat two-thirds
empty.

In 2003, Petty approached commissioners with a plan to fill the beds with
immigrants facing deportation. It was a money maker from the start. Morgan
County received $65 a day for each immigrant housed, $25 more than it charged
for housing inmates from surrounding counties.

"It wasn't hitting the jackpot ... but it's given us a little freedom to operate
the way we ought to be," Petty said of the contract.

Over the years, the county spent hundreds of thousands of dollars to expand to
130 beds and make ICE-required upgrades such as building a new recreation area,
and hiring a dietitian and full-time nurse. They added jailers and bought vans
and hired drivers to transport detainees twice daily to Kansas City.

Last year, the county averaged about 45 detainees a day, which generated $1.1
million. But starting about January, the number of detainees began to drop
steadily.

On a day last week, the county jail housed 27 detainees, a figure that, should
it continue, could force Petty to cut staff.

"It's a concern," Petty said. "We're going to struggle to make ends meet."

Leonard Earnest, Morgan County's presiding commissioner, said he was disturbed
that the decline came when ICE officials had been encouraging the county to
build a separate facility to house women.

"My God, I'm glad we didn't do that," Earnest said. "This is bad enough as it
is."

NO VACANCY

Not every county is suffering.

Some counties, such as Platte near Kansas City and McHenry near Chicago, have
more residents, larger tax bases and heftier law enforcement budgets of which
the ICE contract is only a small portion.

McHenry County saw the average number of detainees drop from 348 a day in
January to 281 in April, but there didn't seem to be too much concern. "I don't
think we're worried we're going to go out of business," said Patrick Firman, a
deputy chief with the sheriff's department.

A few counties are even flourishing.

"There's been times when we were packed," said Junior DeLay, clerk of
Mississippi County, where the number of detainees in the 104-bed jail has been
on the rise in recent months. "We could have posted a no-vacancy sign outside."

Still, election of a new president had Mississippi County leaders pondering the
future, he said.

"That was a concern of ours, going into a new administration and new immigration
policy, what impact would that have on our inmate population?" DeLay said. "So
far, we haven't seen a negative impact. That isn't to say we won't see one."

In Christian County, Sheriff Joey Kyle said the detainee business was going
strong. Last year, the county earned $600,000 on the contract, and local
officials are considering a separate facility to house even more immigrants.

Back in Morgan County, Sheriff Petty is faced with laying off a half-dozen
deputies.

"It's pretty devastating," Petty said.

He's optimistic the number will bounce back, but if it doesn't, he has no
regrets about entering the detainee business.

"It was a struggle to get," he said. "But it was very good to have."

LOAD-DATE: May 11, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC:  Morgan County Chief Deputy David Salzman takes photos Tuesday outside
of Versailles, Mo., for an investigation. Versailles' jail generates revenue by
housing illegal aliens awaiting hearings. Erik M. Lunsford o
elunsford@post-dispatch.com  Morgan County Chief Deputy David Salzman (left)
talks with Sheriff James "Jim" Petty in Versailles, Mo., on Tuesday. Money from
housing immigration detainees has allowed Petty to add more road officers,
detectives, SUV police cars for the rough rural terrain, and jail security. Erik
M. Lunsford o elunsford@post-dispatch.com  MAP - IMMIGRATION DETAINEES HELD IN
MISSOURI AND ILLINOIS JAILS | Post-Dispatch  GRAPHIC - (Illegal immigrants) |
Post-Dispatc

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                  Copyright 2009 St. Louis Post-Dispatch, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              57 of 137 DOCUMENTS


                       St. Louis Post-Dispatch (Missouri)

                              July 27, 2009 Monday
                                 SECOND EDITION

Border slowdown Our view o Decline in Mexican immigration masks a deeper,
lingering problem.

SECTION: EDITORIAL; Pg. A10

LENGTH: 490 words

DATELINE: 0


Depressing statistics in the wake of the continuing global recession are many:
national unemployment trending toward double digits, housing starts slowing to a
trickle and home foreclosures skyrocketing.

But hard times also appear to have slowed down immigration - including illegal
immigration.

A Pew Hispanic Center study released last Wednesday shows that Mexican
immigration to the United States has fallen 40 percent since 2005. Much of that
can be attributed to the declining U.S. economy, particularly the decline in
construction and service-oriented jobs.

Along with this has come tighter homeland security measures, including a sharp
increase in Border Patrol agents; work to build border walls and use of
electronic surveillance. Without doubt, stepped-up enforcement against illegal
immigration and illicit drugs has become a bigger deterrent along the 2,000-mile
U.S.-Mexico border.

Undocumented immigrants in the United States come from throughout the world;
they can get here through airports, coastal ports and across the 5,500-mile long
Canadian border. But the majority enter illegally from Mexico, hence the focus
on illegal Mexican immigration.

The Pew study found that while legal and illegal Mexican migrants coming to the
United States still outnumber those returning to Mexico, for the first time in
40 to 50 years the gap between those coming and leaving may be narrowing.

As the annual flow of Mexicans immigrants into the United States slowed from 1
million in 2006 to an estimated 636,000 in 2009, the number of people returning
to Mexico has remained steady.

The pattern suggests that even though the slowdown started before the recession
hit full force, the abysmal U.S. economy is a key reason for it.

The study shows that despite the current poor outlook for jobs, most Mexican
immigrants already in the United States are staying here. Things are worse back
home.

Mexico has its own severe recession, a declining of standard of living and
widespread violence in which an estimated 10,000 Mexicans have been killed by
drug cartels warring for dominance.

In some parts of the world, the ebb and flow of migration is fueled by famine,
war and religious persecution. Mexicans come to the United States to work, and
historically, U.S. employers have welcomed their labor.

As our country struggles to rebuild, regaining jobs is a central priority. Since
jobs are at the core of Mexican migration, it's even more important for the
United States to reform its immigration policies.

Immigrant labor has been a historical driver during economic growth or
rebuilding periods such as the devastation left by Hurricane Katrina. Legalizing
migrants with established roots here can help our country rebuild.

For now, immigration reform waits its turn on the national agenda behind other
needed reforms: financial, health care, environmental, energy and education, to
name but a few. But neither the migrants nor the issue are going away.

LOAD-DATE: July 30, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: EDITORIAL

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                  Copyright 2009 St. Louis Post-Dispatch, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              58 of 137 DOCUMENTS


                       St. Louis Post-Dispatch (Missouri)

                            October 16, 2009 Friday
                                 THIRD EDITION

The real 'real uninsured' Our view o Think they're illegal immigrants and
deadbeats? Think again. OPINION

SECTION: EDITORIAL; Pg. A14

LENGTH: 595 words

DATELINE: 0


To hear some people tell it, the number of people without health insurance in
the United States is vastly overstated.

There are the illegal immigrants, the argument goes, and then there are those
who can afford to buy insurance but don't because they are young and otherwise
healthy. Or cheap.

Republican Sen. Orrin Hatch of Utah gave voice to those overheated claims in
August, telling an interviewer that the true number of uninsured is "about 15
million people."

A very different picture emerges in a new analysis by the nonpartisan Kaiser
Family Foundation. Based on 2008 data from the U.S. Census Bureau, the study
provides much-needed perspective as health reform gains momentum in Washington.

Even though covering the uninsured is just one of several goals of health care
reform legislation, achieving that goal requires a basic understanding of just
who are the uninsured.

Start with the basics: The Census Bureau estimates that 46.3 million people were
uninsured in 2008. Today, that figure undoubtedly is higher because unemployment
has continued to climb during 2009, and health insurance is closely linked to
employment in this country.

The reductionist arguments start from the 46.3 million figure. One group after
another is discarded as unworthy of being included among the "real uninsured."

First they subtract immigrants. About 10 million uninsured people are not U.S.
citizens. Many on the right assume that they're all undocumented and illegal.
But many foreign-born residents have legal U.S. status.

A new study by the Pew Hispanic Center estimates that about 43 percent of
illegal immigrants had health insurance in 2008, either through their job or
purchased on their own. That means 6.8 million are uninsured. That's not an
insignificant number, but it still leaves nearly 40 million uninsured.

Next to be subtracted are adults in their 20s and early 30s - the so-called
"Young Invincibles" - who, we are told, could afford to buy health insurance but
choose not to.

They're at the center of an increasingly public dispute between insurance
companies, who initially supported health care reform, and the Obama
administration. Insurance groups say the Senate health care reform bill approved
this week in committee is flawed because it sets only weak penalties for the
Young Invincibles.

But reality turns out to be more complicated. About 23 million of the 26 million
uninsured single adults earn less than $43,000 a year. It's not that they choose
not to buy insurance, it's that they can't afford it.

About 10 million of them live in poverty. But unlike children and some poor
parents, most single adults don't qualify for Medicaid or other government
insurance programs even if they're poor.

Of the 11 million uninsured parents, 7.6 million earn less than $40,000. The
median income for uninsured parents in their 20s is just $15,000.

Nor is being uninsured only a short-term inconvenience for most. Three-quarters
of the 46.3 million uninsured - 34.7 million people - have been without coverage
for at least a year. Most of them have been uninsured for more than three years.

Nearly three-quarters of the uninsured have no education beyond high school.
Most of the uninsured don't get free or reduced-price medical care. They're
often asked to pay up front for treatment or to finance it with high-interest
credit cards.

One last thing about the uninsured: They're more likely to live in states that
usually vote Republican and whose political leaders oppose the health care
reform.

In a debate from which they have the most to gain, their voices need to be
heard.

LOAD-DATE: October 19, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: EDITORIAL

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                  Copyright 2009 St. Louis Post-Dispatch, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              59 of 137 DOCUMENTS


                       St. Louis Post-Dispatch (Missouri)

                           November 19, 2009 Thursday
                                 THIRD EDITION

No wonder St. Louis Catholics are confused Point of View o Is gay marriage in
Maine a bigger priority than illegal immigration here? OTHER VIEWS

BYLINE: Jamie Allman o jallman@stl.emmis.com

SECTION: EDITORIAL; Pg. A17

LENGTH: 785 words

DATELINE: 0


(Editor's Note: As part of our efforts to provide a variety of views on the
Commentary page, today we debut a monthly "Point of View" column by Jamie
Allman, host of "Allman in the Morning" on KFTK-97.1 FM Talk. Allman, 46, was a
reporter for KMOV-TV (Channel 4) for 14 years before resigning in 2004 to become
chief spokesman for St. Louis Archbishop Raymond L. Burke. He left that post in
mid-2005 to focus on his radio program. He and his wife, Andrea, have four
children and live in Richmond Heights.)

I think I have a dynamite way for gays who want to get married to avoid the
cross hairs of Catholic bishops: They should find a way to become illegal
immigrants.

St. Louis Archbishop Robert Carlson chased nuptial-hunting gays all the way to
Maine earlier this month when he used an Archdiocesan fund to drop $10,000 into
the coffers of those fighting to defeat gay marriage.

Too bad for the gay people. Had they been illegal immigrants, the Archdiocese
might have run to Maine to rescue them and relocate them. That's what the
Archdiocese did in Valley Park when the city dared threaten to enforce the law.

No wonder Catholics are confused. They never know where the holy ball is marked.
That sure makes it hard to be a holy roller.

What the public sees is just the tip of the mitre when it comes to confusing
actions.

In 2002, a St. Louis priest admitted he sexually abused a kid. In the summer of
2003, Archbishop Justin Rigali let one of his buddies, Monsignor Richard Stika,
increase the priest's salary. By the fall of that year, Rigali was hammering the
board of St. Stanislaus Kostka Church for being "out of communion" with the
church. Who is more "out of communion": the abusive priest or the Polish parish?

Rigali became a cardinal in Philadelphia, Stika became bishop of Knoxville,
Tenn., and the St. Stan's board wound up being excommunicated.

So heaven forbid you're gay and want to get married in Maine. Now you've got ten
grand and more against you, courtesy of Catholic bishops. Better you commit a
crime by sneaking into the United States. Then you have legions of bishops
surrounding you with protection, condemning raids on you and even harboring you
from the law.

Heck, as long as you're an illegal immigrant and not eyeing a gay marriage, the
bishops will even push for government health care to be thrown your way.

As keenly opposed as Catholic leaders like Archbishop Carlson are to gay
marriage, it's too bad they aren't more determined on abortion. Sure they all
lobbied to ban abortion funding in the House health care reform bill. But that
came after an election season in which they mumbled incoherently about a "scale
of values" in voting for a president.

What you get with your "scale of values" is confusion and hypocrisy.

You get St. Louis Catholics with Obama buttons pinned to their purses hollering
at priests when they have the audacity to hope during a homily that people
consider the abortion issue in voting.

Or you get Catholic commentators like Chris Matthews on MSNBC who will on one
day declare that it's not wrong for someone to "call al-Qaida," but the next day
declare that it is wrong for Catholic bishops to call lawmakers.

Bishop Carlson's $10,000 wire to whack gay marriage in Maine got very little
attention among St. Louis Catholics. (Be lucky your name isn't Raymond Burke,
your excellency. You'd still be on the front page about this one.)

The lack of attention may be because Catholics - especially the ones who voted
for a pro-choice president - may feel they have to stand up for something they
deem to be a moral issue. Putting the hammer on gays is cleansing. It's
absolving. It feels, well, Catholic.

But I'm sure there are many uses for ten grand. Last Sunday, Catholics heard
appeals from priests for donations to the seminary. Kids at one local parish
started a Pennies For Priests collection. Ten grand would go a long way there.
Or could the Marriage Enrichment Program at the Archdiocese use some cash?

Before you cue the lightning strike, please make no mistake. As a Catholic I do
believe that marriage should be between a man and a woman. I'll be sure to teach
my children that. Otherwise it's none of my business. And I certainly don't
believe the government should be involved in dictating who gets married and who
doesn't. That's why I'm a conservative and not a Republican.

But maybe I'm totally wrong. Maybe Archbishop Carlson and his guys finally have
found the American sweet spot by mixing their fight against gay marriage with
their wave to illegal immigrants. After all, both the Democratic and Republican
parties seem to share a disdain for gay marriage and a soft spot for illegals.
Maybe the bishops have finally found a bipartisan comfort zone.

LOAD-DATE: November 20, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: COMMENTARY

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                  Copyright 2009 St. Louis Post-Dispatch, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              60 of 137 DOCUMENTS


                       St. Louis Post-Dispatch (Missouri)

                            November 27, 2009 Friday
                                 THIRD EDITION

State told to pay firm that lost contract Janitorial company sued after
immigration sting, work cutoff.

BYLINE: THE ASSOCIATED PRESS

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. A13

LENGTH: 331 words

DATELINE: 0


JEFFERSON CITY - A Missouri trial judge has ordered the state to pay $152,000
for illegally terminating a janitorial company's state contracts when the firm
was targeted by an immigration sting.

Cole County Judge Richard Callahan concluded Wednesday that the company could
not have known some employees were illegal immigrants and ordered the payment
for breach of contract. Callahan also ordered the state to remove the company
from a list of firms ineligible for future state contracts.

Missouri canceled nine contracts with Oklahoma-based Sam's Janitorial Services
after state and federal authorities detained about two dozen of the company's
Jefferson City workers during a March 2007 immigration sting. The janitorial
service, which also cleaned buildings in Kansas City and Columbia, was then
banned from applying for new state contracts.

On the night of the raid, then-Gov. Matt Blunt signed an executive order
directing state agencies to cancel any contract with companies found to employ
illegal immigrants.

Ultimately, only a few of the janitors caught in the sting were found guilty or
pleaded guilty to any crimes.

Company owner Kwabena Asamoah-Boadu sued in 2007 and testified during an October
trial that he checked his employees' documents and did not knowingly hire
illegal immigrants. Asamoah-Boadu also provided state officials with some
documents so that employees could clean secure buildings.

Callahan concluded that law enforcement eventually found irregularities in the
paperwork of some employees using information that would not have been available
to Asamoah-Boadu.

"Sadly, one can only conclude that the need for scapegoats is embedded in our
society just as deeply as the need for heroes," Callahan said.

State contracts are handled by Missouri's Office of Administration. An agency
spokeswoman said Wednesday that attorneys were reviewing the decision and
declined to comment.

An attorney who represented Asamoah-Boadu did not immediately return a call
seeking comment.

LOAD-DATE: November 27, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                  Copyright 2009 St. Louis Post-Dispatch, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              61 of 137 DOCUMENTS


                       St. Louis Post-Dispatch (Missouri)

                               May 2, 2010 Sunday
                                 FIRST EDITION

Hundreds here protest Arizona law Attempted crackdown on illegal immigrants
amounts to racial profiling, many say.

BYLINE: BY Leah Thorsen o lthorsen@post-dispatch.com > 636-937-6249 The
Associated Press contributed to this report.

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. A2

LENGTH: 473 words

DATELINE: 0


ST. LOUIS - Immigration activists marched through downtown Saturday, joining
thousands of protesters across the country. Hundreds marched from America's
Center to a rally at Kiener Plaza. They carried signs with slogans proclaiming
"Jesus was a refugee" and "No human is illegal."

Although the May 1 march is an annual event, much of the fervor for this year's
rallies centered on a new Arizona law cracking down on illegal immigration.
Supporters of the Arizona law, which requires authorities to question people
about immigration status if there is reason to suspect they're in the country
illegally, say it is necessary because of the federal government's failure to
secure the border. Critics say the law encourages racial profiling and
discrimination against immigrants or anyone thought to be an immigrant. The
Arizona law has been highly criticized by numerous religious organizations. The
St. Louis rally was spearheaded by the United Methodist Women, which is holding
a convention at America's Center this weekend. "We must get this right for the
sake of human rights," Monsignor Jack Schuler of the Roman Catholic Archdiocese
of St. Louis said at the rally. He was joined on the stage by leaders from other
faiths, including Imam Muhamed Hasic of the Islamic Community Center in St.
Louis, Rabbi Susan Talve of the Central Reform Congregation in St. Louis and
Bishop Minerva Carcaño of the United Methodist Church, the first Hispanic woman
to be elected a bishop of the church and whose district includes Arizona.
Carcaño called the law unwise and mean-spirited, and said it was contradictory
to Judeo-Christian values. "Beyond this being a political issue, this is a faith
issue," she said, emphasizing that the church stands for immigrant rights.
Several people in the crowd, including St. Louis University freshman Jonathan
Serpas, 19, wore shirts that said, "Do I look illegal?" on the front. Serpas
wrote, "Come get me Jan Brewer," on the back of his shirt, a reference to
Arizona's governor who signed the immigration legislation into law. Serpas, who
is of Salvadoran descent, said that he was in the country legally but that he
knew people who were not. He frequently responded to the speakers by yelling,
"Si, se puede," which is Spanish for "Yes, we can," and said he believed the law
encouraged discrimination. "It's racial profiling to the max," said Serpas, who
is from Houston. Haley Kvaas, 23, a Washington University freshman from St.
Cloud, Minn., also wore a shirt with the "Do I look illegal?" message. Kvaas, a
blonde, blue-eyed woman of Norwegian and German ancestry, said that she knew
authorities would never question her about her citizenship, but that she wore
the shirt in support of those in danger of being harassed. "That's what this law
is - an excuse to profile based on race," she said. "It's awful."

LOAD-DATE: May 2, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC:  Christian Gooden o cgooden@post-dispatch.com  Christian Gooden o
cgooden@post-dispatch.com A crowd of hundreds of people gathered Saturday at
Kiener Plaza to protest the recently passed law that requires police in Arizona
to check the status of any person they reasonably suspect is in the United
States illegally. The protest rally was sponsored by the United Methodist Women.

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                  Copyright 2010 St. Louis Post-Dispatch, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              62 of 137 DOCUMENTS


                       St. Louis Post-Dispatch (Missouri)

                               May 2, 2010 Sunday
                                 FIRST EDITION

About 2,000 here protest Arizona law Attempted crackdown on illegal immigrants
amounts to racial profiling, many say.

BYLINE: BY Leah Thorsen o lthorsen@post-dispatch.com > 636-937-6249 The
Associated Press contributed to this report.

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. A2

LENGTH: 473 words

DATELINE: 0


ST. LOUIS - Immigration activists marched through downtown Saturday, joining
thousands of protesters across the country. Hundreds marched from America's
Center to a rally at Kiener Plaza. They carried signs with slogans proclaiming
"Jesus was a refugee" and "No human is illegal."

Although the May 1 march is an annual event, much of the fervor for this year's
rallies centered on a new Arizona law cracking down on illegal immigration.
Supporters of the Arizona law, which requires authorities to question people
about immigration status if there is reason to suspect they're in the country
illegally, say it is necessary because of the federal government's failure to
secure the border. Critics say the law encourages racial profiling and
discrimination against immigrants or anyone thought to be an immigrant. The
Arizona law has been highly criticized by numerous religious organizations. The
St. Louis rally was spearheaded by the United Methodist Women, which is holding
a convention at America's Center this weekend. "We must get this right for the
sake of human rights," Monsignor Jack Schuler of the Roman Catholic Archdiocese
of St. Louis said at the rally. He was joined on the stage by leaders from other
faiths, including Imam Muhamed Hasic of the Islamic Community Center in St.
Louis, Rabbi Susan Talve of the Central Reform Congregation in St. Louis and
Bishop Minerva Carcaño of the United Methodist Church, the first Hispanic woman
to be elected a bishop of the church and whose district includes Arizona.
Carcaño called the law unwise and mean-spirited, and said it was contradictory
to Judeo-Christian values. "Beyond this being a political issue, this is a faith
issue," she said, emphasizing that the church stands for immigrant rights.
Several people in the crowd, including St. Louis University freshman Jonathan
Serpas, 19, wore shirts that said, "Do I look illegal?" on the front. Serpas
wrote, "Come get me Jan Brewer," on the back of his shirt, a reference to
Arizona's governor who signed the immigration legislation into law. Serpas, who
is of Salvadoran descent, said that he was in the country legally but that he
knew people who were not. He frequently responded to the speakers by yelling,
"Si, se puede," which is Spanish for "Yes, we can," and said he believed the law
encouraged discrimination. "It's racial profiling to the max," said Serpas, who
is from Houston. Haley Kvaas, 23, a Washington University freshman from St.
Cloud, Minn., also wore a shirt with the "Do I look illegal?" message. Kvaas, a
blonde, blue-eyed woman of Norwegian and German ancestry, said that she knew
authorities would never question her about her citizenship, but that she wore
the shirt in support of those in danger of being harassed. "That's what this law
is - an excuse to profile based on race," she said. "It's awful."

LOAD-DATE: May 2, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC:  Christian Gooden o cgooden@post-dispatch.com  Christian Gooden o
cgooden@post-dispatch.com A crowd of about 2,000 people gathered Saturday at
Kiener Plaza to protest the recently passed law that requires police in Arizona
to check the status of any person they reasonably suspect is in the United
States illegally. The protest rally was sponsored by the United Methodist Women.

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                  Copyright 2010 St. Louis Post-Dispatch, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              63 of 137 DOCUMENTS


                       St. Louis Post-Dispatch (Missouri)

                             May 27, 2010 Thursday
                                 THIRD EDITION

Smoke on the horizon Our view o More border security unlikely to appease
immigration hardliners. OPINION

SECTION: EDITORIAL; Pg. A12

LENGTH: 586 words

DATELINE: 0


President Barack Obama on Tuesday is expected to announce $500 million in
supplemental funds for border security enforcement and deployment of up to 1,200
National Guard troops along the Mexican border of four Southwestern states.

It is a raw political gesture to appease the anti-immigration zealotry that
recently spawned Arizona's new law requiring law enforcement officials to check
for citizenship or immigration documents "where reasonable suspicion exists that
the person is an alien who is unlawfully in the United States."

It seems that some people think that desperate times call for desperate
measures. But Mr. Obama should be savvier than to hope that this blatant ploy
will move a pending immigration bill onto Congress' front burner.

The politics of desperation are no antidote to the complicated problems of
illegal immigration, nor will they stop the flow of illegal drugs orchestrated
by warring cartels in Mexico and Latin America. So far this year, the cartels
have been blamed for 2,000 drug-related murders in Mexico alone.

America has a sad history of scapegoating immigrants in tough times without
targeting the root causes of the problem. Most illegal immigration is
economically driven. Drug smuggling is a distinct, violent challenge caused more
by demand than supply.

It's long been documented that most of America's undocumented aliens didn't swim
the Rio Grande or cross the desert in the dead of night. Most of them entered
legally - as students, workers and tourists - and never went home. Fences,
radar, drones and National Guardsmen have no relevance to them.

Here are some other facts that defy immigration alarmists:

- U.S. Department of Justice statistics show that violent crime in Arizona for
2008 was the lowest since 1971, even as its population grew. U.S. border towns
have remarkably low crime rates even while their Mexican counterparts battle
escalating violent crime.

- Illegal immigration into the United States has been declining since 2005; it
fell even faster as jobs evaporated because of the national recession, the Pew
Hispanic Center reported.

- Arizona's economy has tanked. The state legislature has cut more than $1
billion this year as it grapples with a projected $2.6 billion deficit for 2011.
Unemployment is 9.5 percent, and it ranks second in the country for the highest
home foreclosure rate. There's no reason to go there if you're looking a job.

- Deportations and Homeland Security Department funds for border enforcement
have increased under the Obama administration.

Texas, New Mexico and California also share a border with Mexico, and they share
the problems of illegal immigration and drug smuggling. But their leaders have
shunned the controversial Arizona law set to take effect in late July.

Backers of the Arizona law say that the federal government shirked its duty to
control its borders, so Arizona took matters into its own hands. They, along
with many congressional Republicans, aren't happy with the proposed
congressional immigration reform bill, which includes increased border
enforcement and tougher employer sanctions.

Arizona-law acolytes insist on measures that would encourage racial profiling
and cast suspicion on potentially innocent people. Mr. Obama's ploy is unlikely
to appease them.

The Comprehensive Immigration Reform for America's Security and Prosperity Act
of 2009 (HR 4321) has been dormant in Congress since December. It's the solution
for Arizona. Gov. Jan Brewer and her supporters should follow their own advice:
Read the bill.

LOAD-DATE: May 28, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: EDITORIAL

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                  Copyright 2010 St. Louis Post-Dispatch, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              64 of 137 DOCUMENTS


                       St. Louis Post-Dispatch (Missouri)

                              June 4, 2010 Friday
                                 THIRD EDITION

Clarity is elusive in immigration debate

BYLINE: Bill McClellan o bmcclellan@post-dispatch.com, 314-340-8143

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. A15

LENGTH: 762 words

DATELINE: 0


If you think the current debate about illegal immigration is not confusing, you
ought to talk with Arcelia Hernandez. She is a U.S. citizen of Mexican descent.
She works for a businessman I know who is thoughtful and conservative. He
suggested I talk with her.

Because he is conservative, I figured she would probably be taking a
conservative position. Why else would he suggest I speak with her?

Then again, I am not quite sure what the conservative position is on this
subject. After all, President Ronald Reagan supported and signed legislation in
1986 that granted legal status to 1.7 million people who were here illegally.
President George W. Bush favored comprehensive immigration reform that also
would have included amnesty.

But now that Barack Obama is president, the conservative position seems to be
that illegal immigration is out of control and the federal government is not
doing enough.

Arizona is right, say many conservatives - although hardly anybody seems to know
exactly what Arizona's controversial law really entails. It is supposed to
empower local police to catch illegals, but the Arizona governor insists that
racial profiling will not be tolerated.

How do you catch Mexicans without looking for Mexicans? It is Mexicans they're
talking about, isn't it?

Like I said, it's all very confusing.

I spoke with Arcelia about a week ago.

She told me her parents were born and reared in the state of Zacatecas in
central Mexico. Their families had small farms. Ranches, actually. They had
cows.

Her father, Jose, walked through the desert and crossed the border illegally in
about 1970. He picked strawberries in California. Then he went back to Zacatecas
and married Enriqueta. Then he crossed the border illegally again and found
another job picking fruit in California.

About a year later, Enriqueta crossed the border illegally and joined her
husband.

Jose got a job in a nursery. He and his wife spoke no English. They had almost
no formal education. They had six children, all of whom were U.S. citizens by
virtue of being born in this country. Arcelia was the fourth of the six
children. She was born in 1982.

Jose and Enriqueta took advantage of the amnesty legislation of 1986 to become
resident aliens.

The family moved to Fairmont City about eight years ago.

Arcelia is married to a man who was here illegally. He had come here legally on
a visa but stayed long after the visa expired. He was able to get a green card
because he married a U.S. citizen.

So, how does Arcelia feel about illegal immigration? Does she think we need
comprehensive reform that would include amnesty for people who are now here
illegally?

No, she is very much against amnesty. For that matter, she doesn't think that
somebody like her husband, who was here illegally, ought to be eligible for
legal status just because he married a U.S. citizen. Speaking of citizenship,
she does not agree with the notion of extending citizenship to all who are born
here. If your parents are illegals, you're an illegal.

I asked if she thought her parents ought to be deported, or her husband, or if
her own citizenship should be revoked.

No, she said. She does not think any of these things should be applied
retroactively. "What's done is done," she said. So she and her parents and her
husband are fine.

I was, I must say, taken aback by her ideas. On the other hand, she is a citizen
by virtue of birth - same as me - and she has a right to voice her opinion.
That's one reason so many people want to come here. Then, too, of course, there
is the whole business of economics. People come here for work.

That's why her father came here. His father died, and when his mother became
ill, she sold the cows. What is a ranch without cows?

Arcelia seemed surprised when I suggested that some people will think she is
mean-spirited in that she does not think that illegals now should get the same
opportunity her parents received. She said she is sympathetic toward illegals.
She said that she has many relatives who are here illegally.

I asked her what she would do if she were in charge. She would give more work
visas, she said.

That is a nice idea, but what if you give 1 million work visas and 2 million
people apply? Won't we still have a problem with people coming to this country
illegally? If you give unlimited visas, you might as well not have a border.

By the way, Arcelia said she supports the Arizona law, although she indicated
that she might not understand it. I said I don't support it, but then again, I
don't understand it, either.

"And we thought health care was confusing," said her boss.

LOAD-DATE: June 5, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: COLUMN

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                  Copyright 2010 St. Louis Post-Dispatch, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              65 of 137 DOCUMENTS


                       St. Louis Post-Dispatch (Missouri)

                            June 16, 2010 Wednesday
                                 FIRST EDITION

Illegal immigrants or welcomed neighbors? Immigration o Many communities would
benefit from a population increase with new arrivals.

BYLINE: By John J. Ammann John J. Ammann is a law professor and director of the
Legal Clinic at Saint Louis University School of Law.

SECTION: EDITORIAL; Pg. A13

LENGTH: 830 words

DATELINE: 0


Proponents of the new law in Arizona and others like it aimed at undocumented
aliens have insisted that these laws are not motivated by the ethnicity of the
immigrants and that they will not result in racial profiling. While many facts
undermine these arguments, prejudice behind these laws is revealed by a separate
but parallel policy among many communities trying to drive out immigrants.

Many area legislators and municipal officials are jumping on the anti-illegal
immigration bandwagon, which started in places like Hazelton, Pa., and our own
Valley Park and that now is parked in Arizona. They argue that immigrants
without legal status strain resources and take jobs from American citizens.

At the same time, communities across the St. Louis area and the country would
love to see an increase in their populations. Population growth often brings
economic growth, increased government funding and increased status. With the
U.S. Census still in progress, many communities are expending resources to make
sure every resident is counted. In fact, the census counts undocumented aliens,
so communities are aided by their presence.

The Post-Dispatch recently reported that one area community is providing free
lots to attract new residents ("Grafton's land deal entices homebuyers," June
5). While Grafton lost population because of the 1993 flood, communities
elsewhere have lost residents for many reasons. These communities, and those
with static populations, refuse to accept the status quo and desire growth.

So why would communities expend significant resources to attract new residents,
while vehemently objecting to the presence of new residents from Latin America
or other places outside the United States? The usual refrain is that the
immigrants without legal status are breaking the law. But that doesn't have to
be the case.

Government policies can change to allow for legal status when there once was
none. For example, thousands of Haitians were in the United States illegally in
2009. Immediately after the earthquake in January, they became legal residents
because we humanely determined they should not have to return to a devastated
homeland.

Congress (where the debate belongs, not in state legislatures) seriously should
consider an amnesty program for undocumented families in the United States. A
major argument for such a program, in addition to humanitarian concerns, would
be the need for communities to grow their populations. By granting legal status
to more families and tying that to growth of the communities, the law-breaking
objection is removed.

Not every local leader has taken a short-sighted approach toward immigration.
St. Louis Mayor Francis Slay has recognized that new residents from other
countries can create growth. He has adopted policies that have supported the
families who fled atrocities in Bosnia and Hispanics who fled the poverty of
Latin America. The shops and restaurants along South Grand Boulevard reflect the
bounty and beauty that new residents can bring from other homelands. Were it not
for the influx of immigrants, the city's meager growth would have been even more
anemic over the last two decades.

So here's the proof that many of the so-called anti-immigration laws are founded
on discriminatory intent. It is not hard to imagine the response of the
communities trying to attract new residents to a proposal to accept Hispanics or
others who might apply for amnesty: "Yes, we want more people to live in our
city, just not those people." That type of reaction would of course reveal the
true motive of the backers of the Arizona-type laws.

Many communities defend anti-immigration laws by claiming immigrants are taking
jobs from its current citizens. But any new resident, regardless of his
hometown, could be taking a job from a current resident. Wouldn't the new
resident who moves here from Indiana be taking a job from a local citizen? Why
invite more families to our communities when we have a high unemployment rate?
And are we really expecting an influx of people from California or Wisconsin to
move to the area?

We accept some newcomers and not others in part because of ethnicity, but
another target of our discrimination is poverty. Under current policy, we
welcome the immigrant doctors and engineers but not the housekeepers and
gardeners. Would any area resident object if Cardinals slugger Albert Pujols
pulled up in an expensive SUV to move in next door? Of course, the most frequent
victims of discrimination are poor minorities.

The current immigration system matches the country's need for certain
professionals with the skills of those foreigners seeking citizenship. We grant
legal status because we need the engineer, nurse or the ballplayer. Why can't we
grant legal status to immigrant families because communities want more
residents?

We all arrived here as strangers, either by birth or immigration. If communities
continue to claim they want to expand their populations, they should welcome
everyone.

LOAD-DATE: June 17, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: COMMENTARY

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                  Copyright 2010 St. Louis Post-Dispatch, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              66 of 137 DOCUMENTS


                       St. Louis Post-Dispatch (Missouri)

                            August 14, 2010 Saturday
                                 THIRD EDITION

Nation digest

BYLINE: From news services

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. A17

LENGTH: 374 words

DATELINE: 0


ACORN decision is overturned

A federal appeals court on Friday threw out a decision that had barred Congress
from withholding funds from ACORN, the activist group driven to ruin by scandal
and financial woes. The ruling by the 2nd U.S. Circuit Court of Appeals in
Manhattan reversed a decision by a district court judge in Brooklyn that found
Congress had violated the group's rights by punishing it without a trial.

Obama signs border bill - Nearly 1,500 additional federal law enforcement
personnel - including 1,000 additional U.S. Border Patrol agents - will soon be
heading to America's borders thanks to $600 million in additional federal
spending signed into law Friday by President Barack Obama.

Guantanamo trial delayed - Canadian captive Omar Khadr's war crimes trial was
delayed by at least a month Friday because the alleged terrorist's lone defense
attorney took ill. The defense attorney, Army Lt. Col. Jon Jackson, 39,
collapsed in the tribunal chamber hours after opening statements Thursday in the
first contested war crimes trial of President Barack Obama's administration.

Illegal immigrants turn elsewhere - Thousands more illegal immigrants are
seeking drivers licenses in the three states that do not require drivers to show
proof of citizenship, statistics show. The spike in licenses in New Mexico, Utah
and Washington comes just months after Arizona passed its crackdown on illegal
immigrants.

Energy efficiency funds unspent - A government audit finds that most of the
money authorized for one of the energy efficiency programs in last year's
stimulus plan is going unspent. The Energy Department's inspector general said
that grant recipients have spent just 8.4 percent of the $3.2 billion authorized
to help state and local governments become more energy efficient.

July hot all over the world - Last month was the second warmest July on record.
Worldwide, the average temperature in July was 61.6 degrees Fahrenheit, the
National Climatic Data Center reported. Only July 1998 was hotter since record
keeping began more than a century ago.

Candidate indicted - Alvin Greene, the longshot Democratic nominee for U.S.
Senate from South Carolina, has been indicted on a felony charge of showing
pornography to a college student.

LOAD-DATE: August 17, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                  Copyright 2010 St. Louis Post-Dispatch, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              67 of 137 DOCUMENTS


                       St. Louis Post-Dispatch (Missouri)

                            September 5, 2010 Sunday
                                 FOURTH EDITION

Migrant births defy claims of U.S. critics It's rare for immigrants to come to
the country specifically to have a baby, study shows. IMMIGRATION

BYLINE: by BOB CHRISTIE AND PAUL J. WEBER o Associated Press

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. A12

LENGTH: 949 words

DATELINE: 0


SAN JUAN, Texas - When Ruth Garcia's twins are born in two months, they'll have
all the rights of U.S. citizens. They and their six brothers and sisters will be
able to vote, apply for federal student loans and even run for president.

Garcia is an illegal immigrant who crossed into the country about 14 years ago,
before her children were born, and the citizenship granted to her children and
millions others like them is at the center of a divisive national debate.

Republicans are pushing for congressional hearings to consider changing the
nation's 14th Amendment to deny such children the automatic citizenship the
Constitution guarantees. They say women like Garcia are taking advantage of the
constitutional amendment and paint a picture of pregnant women rushing across
the border to give birth.

While a recent Pew Hispanic Center study shows 8 percent of the 4.3 million
babies born in the U.S. in 2008 had at least one illegal parent, a closer
examination shows that most children of illegal immigrants are born to parents
like Garcia who have made the United States their home for years.

Out of 340,000 babies born to illegal immigrants in the United States in 2008,
85 percent of the parents had been in the country for more than a year, and more
than half for at least five years, Jeffrey Passel, a senior demographer for Pew,
told The Associated Press.

And immigration experts say it's extraordinarily rare for immigrants to come to
the U.S. just so they can have babies and get citizenship. In most cases, they
come for economic reasons and better hospitals, and end up staying and raising
families.

Garcia's husband has been deported and she earns a living selling tamales to
other immigrants who live in fear of being deported from the slapdash,
impoverished colonias that dot the Texas-Mexico border.

"I think that children aren't at fault for having been born here," Garcia said.
"My children always have lived here. They've never gone to another country."

Under current immigration law, Garcia and others like her don't get U.S.
citizenship even though their children are Americans.

With an estimated 11.1 million illegal immigrants living in the United States,
the issue strikes a chord with many voters - people like retired Air Force nurse
and pediatric nurse practitioner Susan Struck, 66, of Double Adobe, Ariz.

"People come over ... and they have babies with U.S. birth certificates, then
they go back over the border with that Social Security number, with that birth
certificate," and have access to public services, she said at a recent event
near the border organized by conservative Tea Party activists.

Several prominent Republican leaders share Struck's beliefs on the issue. Sen.
Lindsey Graham of South Carolina has been a vocal advocate for changing the
Constitution, and he helped the issue gain momentum heading into the midterm
elections.

"Women have traveled from across the world for the purpose of adding a U.S.
passport holder to their family, as far away as China, Turkey and as close as
Mexico," said Jon Feere, legal analyst for the Center for Immigration Studies,
which advocates for strict immigration laws.

Still, changing the Constitution is highly unlikely, legal scholars say.
Measures have been introduced in each two-year congressional session since 2005,
but none has made it out of committee. Constitutional changes require approval
by two-thirds majorities in both chambers of Congress, an impossibility now
because Democrats have the majority in both houses and most oppose such a
measure. Even if Republicans gain power in November and legislation is passed,
an amendment would still need to be ratified by three-fourths of the states.

To be sure, some pregnant Mexican women do come to the United States. In border
cities like Nogales, women have been coming to the U.S. for decades to give
birth, although the primary reason is better medical care, Santa Cruz County
sheriff Tony Estrada said. Billboards advertising birthing services in Arizona
line streets across the border in Nogales, Mexico.

Tucson Medical Center, 115 miles southeast of Phoenix, offers packages designed
to provide inclusive care to new mothers. The program draws some residents of
the northern Mexican state of Sonora who can afford its upfront costs and
already have U.S. visas, spokesman Michael Letson said.

Princeton University demographer Douglas Massey said in 30 years studying
Mexican immigration, he's never interviewed a migrant who said they came to the
United States just to get citizenship for their children.

"Mexicans do not come to have babies in the United States," said Massey, who
blames the tightening of the border in the 1990s for cutting off normal
migration of men who used to come to work for a year or two and then go home.
"They end up having babies in the United States because men can no longer
circulate freely back and forth from homes in Mexico to jobs in the United
States, and husbands and wives quite understandably want to be together."

More common, he and other experts says, are families stuck with one child who is
legal and others who aren't - like Beatriz Gomez, a 35-year-old illegal
immigrant who came to Phoenix 11 years ago on a now-expired tourist visa from
Arriaga in the Mexican state of Chiapas.

Her 12-year-old daughter was born in Mexico and is here illegally, but her two
youngest children, ages 8 and 5, were born in the U.S. and are citizens.

"It's sad," Gomez said of her oldest daughter, who was only 1 when the family
came to the United States and won't qualify for benefits such as in-state
college tuition rates or federal student loans. "She studies hard, and she won't
be able to go to a university like the other two."

LOAD-DATE: September 5, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                  Copyright 2010 St. Louis Post-Dispatch, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              68 of 137 DOCUMENTS


                       St. Louis Post-Dispatch (Missouri)

                            December 8, 2008 Monday
                                 THIRD EDITION

U.S. immigration raid reverberates in Guatemala

BYLINE: By Traci Carl The Associated Press

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. A12

LENGTH: 610 words


XICALCAL, Guatemala - For years, the only people in this valley were those too
old or too young to make the trip to the United States. Now the village bustles
again with deported workers.

The reason is a raid that happened nearly two years ago and 3,000 miles away. On
a bitterly cold March morning in New Bedford, Mass., immigration agents swarmed
the Michael Bianco Inc. textile factory and arrested 361 people, most of them
Central American women.

The sweep was among the first of more than a dozen showcase raids as the United
States cracked down on illegal immigration. Arrests of undocumented workers have
risen tenfold since 2003, to 4,077 last year. Fines for employers have jumped
from a few dozen companies paying $45,000 in 2003 to 863 facing penalties
totaling $30 million.

The Michael Bianco raid signaled the government's new, no-tolerance attitude
toward its undocumented population. So far only 160 former Michael Bianco
employees have been sent home. But the raid's impact has had a ripple effect,
scaring employers into policing their work forces.

Thousands of workers found themselves jobless and returned to hometowns now
struggling to feed the returning populations. One of these is Xicalcal, a
collection of homes down a forgotten dirt road in Guatemala's Mayan highlands.

In New Bedford, a town of about 94,000 people, the Guatemalans spent long hours
pushing fabric through chattering sewing machines at companies such as Michael
Bianco. The factory started out making leather goods for brands including Coach,
Fossil and Timberland and ended up winning $230 million in contracts to produce
military gear for the U.S. war in Iraq.

As far back as 2002, the U.S. Social Security administration suspected Michael
Bianco might be hiring illegal immigrants. It sent a letter stating that almost
a quarter of workers' Social Security numbers didn't check out. Similar letters
arrived each subsequent year.

In December 2005, as rumors swirled of a raid, a manager announced over the
intercom that employees were welcome to leave for the day, according to a
federal indictment. About 75 people scattered, hiding in factory boxes or their
cars.

That turned out to be a false alarm, but soon an undercover agent posing as an
illegal immigrant was working at Michael Bianco. According to the indictment,
the factory's payroll manager told her how to get illegal papers at the record
store across the street.

By 2007, Michael Bianco's payroll had swelled to almost 650 people. More than
two-thirds had fishy Social Security numbers, and prosecutors allege the company
intentionally filled its ranks with undocumented workers to avoid paying
overtime. The Guatemalans gladly took the jobs, where they could earn in a
half-hour what they made in a day back home.

On March 6, 2007, the sewing machines had just clicked into gear when armed
agents in black flooded the floor and blocked the exits. Nearly two years later,
some 200 people are still waiting to see if the United States will let them
stay. Some are allowed to work while their cases crawl through the court system.
Some have no income.

Last month, Michael Bianco founder Francesco Insolia - himself an immigrant from
Italy - pleaded guilty to charges of harboring and concealing illegal
immigrants. He faces up to 18 months in prison when he's sentenced in January.
He also agreed to pay workers $850,000 to settle a lawsuit claiming back pay.

The raid had a chilling effect on other employers. Many are turning away anyone
whose work papers are suspect.

Missouri-based Eagle Industries, which bought Michael Bianco Inc. a year ago,
now runs Social Security numbers through E-Verify, a government database.

LOAD-DATE: December 8, 2008

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC:  PHOTO - Women carry corn in the village of Xicalcal, Guatemala, last
May. Hundreds of local residents once worked illegally in the United States,
some paying smugglers as much as $6,000 for the trip. These workers sent home
hundreds of dollars a month to a community where a farm field worker can earn
about $6 a day. The U.S. crackdown on illegal immigrants has forced many
Guatemalans to return to Xicalcal.  .  The Associated Press

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                  Copyright 2008 St. Louis Post-Dispatch, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              69 of 137 DOCUMENTS


                       St. Louis Post-Dispatch (Missouri)

                             March 16, 2009 Monday
                                 THIRD EDITION

Immigrants pile up in U.S. detention More than 18,000 of 32,000 held have no
criminal convictions, analysis finds.

BYLINE: The Associated Press

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. A11

LENGTH: 461 words

DATELINE: 0


The U.S. detention system for immigrants has mushroomed in the last decade, a
costly building boom that was supposed to sweep up criminals and ensure that
undocumented immigrants were quickly shown the door.

Instead, an Associated Press computer analysis of every person being held on a
recent Sunday night shows that most did not have a criminal record and many were
not about to leave the country - voluntarily or via deportation.

An official Immigration and Customs Enforcement database, obtained under the
Freedom of Information Act, showed a U.S. detainee population of exactly 32,000
on the evening of Jan. 25.

The data show that 18,690 immigrants had no criminal conviction, not even for
illegal entry or low-level crimes such as trespassing. More than 400 of those
with no criminal record had been incarcerated for at least a year. A dozen had
been held for three years or more; one man from China had been locked up for
more than five years.

Nearly 10,000 had been in custody longer than 31 days - the average detention
stay that ICE cites as evidence of its effective detention management.

Especially tough bail conditions are exacerbated by disregard or bending of the
rules regarding how long immigrants can be detained.

Based on a 2001 ruling by the U.S. Supreme Court, ICE has about six months to
deport or release immigrants after their case is decided. But immigration
lawyers say that deadline is routinely missed. In the system snapshot provided
to the AP, 950 people were in that category.

The detainee buildup began in the mid-1990s, long before the 2001 attacks on the
World Trade Center and the Pentagon.

But the dragnet has come to include not only terrorism suspects and cop killers,
but an honors student who was raised in Orlando, Fla.; a convenience store clerk
who begged to go back to Canada; and a Pentecostal minister who was forcibly
drugged by ICE agents after he asked to contact his wife, according to court
records.

Immigration lawyers note that substantial numbers of detainees, from 177
countries in the data provided, are not illegal immigrants at all. Many of the
longest-term noncriminal detainees are asylum seekers fighting to stay here
because they fear being killed in their home country. Others are longtime
residents who may be eligible to stay under other criteria, or whose
applications for permanent residency were lost or mishandled, the lawyers say.

Still other long-term detainees include people who can't be deported because
their home country won't accept them or people who seemingly have been forgotten
in the behemoth system, where 58 percent have no lawyers or anyone else
advocating on their behalf.

ICE says detention is the best way to guarantee that immigrants attend court
hearings and leave the country when ordered.

LOAD-DATE: March 16, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                  Copyright 2009 St. Louis Post-Dispatch, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              70 of 137 DOCUMENTS


                       St. Louis Post-Dispatch (Missouri)

                            July 22, 2009 Wednesday
                                 FIRST EDITION

WASHINGTON, D.C.

BYLINE: From news services

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. A6

LENGTH: 261 words

DATELINE: 0


All workers may face checks

Sen. Chuck Schumer, D-N.Y., who is leading the push for changes in immigration
law, says verifying that people are legally employed will require all workers -
citizens and immigrants - to prove they are eligible to hold U.S. jobs.
Biometrics such as fingerprints would be the most efficient way to verify that
people are authorized to work here, Schumer said at a hearing Tuesday.

No bidders for Watergate Hotel - The Watergate Hotel failed to attract any bids
at auction Tuesday and was taken back by the lender. Opened in 1967, the hotel
is one of six buildings in the Watergate complex, which also includes the office
building where the 1972 burglary of the Democratic National Committee
headquarters took place - a crime that led to President Richard M. Nixon's
resignation. Four of the burglars stayed at the hotel.

House panel backs Pell Grant hike - President Barack Obama's plan to boost Pell
Grants for low-income college students cleared the House education committee
Tuesday. The bill would link Pell Grants to inflation, raising the maximum grant
to $6,900 over the next decade.

White House goes a little bit country - Continuing a series on arts education,
120 students from Pennsylvania, Tennessee and Virginia learned Tuesday about
music and songwriting from some of country music's best - Brad Paisley, and
Alison Krauss and Union Station. It was the second workshop in a series Michelle
Obama launched to encourage arts and arts education. The first session focused
on jazz; a classical music workshop is planned in the fall.

LOAD-DATE: July 22, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: BRIEF

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                  Copyright 2009 St. Louis Post-Dispatch, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              71 of 137 DOCUMENTS


                       St. Louis Post-Dispatch (Missouri)

                           August 19, 2009 Wednesday
                                 SECOND EDITION

DIGEST - NATION

BYLINE: From news services

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. A7

LENGTH: 341 words

DATELINE: 0


RFK's son says he won't seek Burris seat or governorship

Chicago businessman Christopher Kennedy, a son of Robert F. Kennedy, said he
won't run for the U.S. Senate seat being vacated by Roland Burris, nor will he
run for governor.

Pakistani journalist under review - U.S. immigration officials questioned Voice
of America journalist Rahman Bunairee to determine whether he could apply for
asylum based on a "credible fear" of being tortured or persecuted in his native
Pakistan. Immigration officials detained him on Aug. 9 after he arrived in
Washington on a visa issued by the U.S. Embassy in Islamabad.

No charges in crash - The only person who could have been charged in a wrong-way
crash in New York that killed eight people was the drunk and stoned woman who
caused the wreck and died in it, a prosecutor said. "Diane Schuler died in the
crash and the charges died with her," Westchester District Attorney Janet
DiFiore told reporters.

Ultrasound law overturned - An Oklahoma judge has ruled against a law that
required women seeking an abortion to receive an ultrasound and a doctor's
description of the fetus. The judge found that it violated constitutional
requirements that legislative measures deal only with one subject.

Monkey is cleared - A woman who was found dead in her home had a leash wrapped
around her neck, according to Orlando, Fla., police records, but police don't
think a loose monkey in the house contributed to her death.

Disney employee dies - Walt Disney World in Orlando, Fla., canceled a stunt show
after an employee died during practice, the theme park's third worker killed on
the job this summer. Disney said the deaths weren't related, and federal
investigators were treating them as separate accidents.

Cocaine on dollar bills - Researchers looked at 234 $1 bills from the U.S. and
found that 90 percent carried small traces of cocaine, the American Chemical
Society was told. Bureau of Engraving and Printing spokeswoman Claudia Dickens
in Washington said, "When it leaves here, it does not have any cocaine in it."

LOAD-DATE: August 19, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: BRIEF

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                  Copyright 2009 St. Louis Post-Dispatch, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              72 of 137 DOCUMENTS


                       St. Louis Post-Dispatch (Missouri)

                           February 4, 2010 Thursday
                                 FIRST EDITION

DIGEST - NATION

BYLINE: From news services

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. A6

LENGTH: 212 words

DATELINE: 0


Scientist is convicted

U.S.-trained Pakistani scientist Aafia Siddiqui was convicted Wednesday of
charges that she tried to kill Americans while detained in Afghanistan in 2008,
shouting with raised arm as jurors left the courtroom: "This is a verdict coming
from Israel, not America."

A call for biofuels - A presidential task force recommended spending more money
to make biofuels such as ethanol, saying the nation is likely to fall short of
mandates for more environmentally friendly energy. The current production is 12
billion gallons annually; 36 billion gallons are mandated by 2022.

Debt ceiling - The Treasury Department said it expects to hit the government's
debt ceiling by the end of February, putting pressure on Congress to raise the
limit from its current level of $12.4 trillion.

Obama's aunt to make case - President Barack Obama's aunt will make a second bid
for political asylum as she goes before an immigration judge to argue that she
should be allowed to stay in the United States. Kenya native Zeituni Onyango,
will appear today in U.S. Immigration Court in Boston.

A challenge for Bayh - In a recruiting coup, former Republican Sen. Dan Coats
said he's preparing to challenge Democratic Sen. Evan Bayh of Indiana in
November. Some polls have Coats winning.

LOAD-DATE: February 4, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES:  digest

DOCUMENT-TYPE: BRIEF

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                  Copyright 2010 St. Louis Post-Dispatch, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              73 of 137 DOCUMENTS


                       St. Louis Post-Dispatch (Missouri)

                              July 11, 2010 Sunday
                                 FOURTH EDITION

LETTERS FROM OUR READERS YOUR VIEWS

SECTION: EDITORIAL; Pg. A14

LENGTH: 1268 words

DATELINE: 0


A healthier future for new Missourians

Earlier this month, the Center for Medicare and Medicaid Services announced an
expanded definition of "lawfully residing children and Pregnant women" to make
it easier for state governments to provide Medicaid and Children's Health
Insurance Program benefits to legal immigrant children and pregnant women.

The federal government lifted the five-year waiting period for children of legal
immigrants to have access to the health care safety net. The Department of
Health and Human Services will provide enhanced federal matching funds to states
that cover these children and pregnant women, thus making their health insurance
nearly cost-free to the state. Giving these children access to Medicaid and CHIP
will have a healthy impact on the lives of nearly 4,000 Missouri children who,
until now, have had limited access to the state's health care safety net.

When so much negative attention has been given to Arizona's anti-immigrant law,
we are demonstrating our American sense of fairness by not punishing the
children of immigrants who played by the rules, came here legally and paid taxes
like every other citizen.

Gov. Jay Nixon should direct the Missouri to provide immigrants access to
Medicaid and CHIP to invest in the healthy future of these new Missourians.

Dr. Kevin Minder - Olivette Center for Immigrant Healthcare Justice

Appointment anger

The recess appointment of Dr. Donald Berwick as administrator of the Centers for
Medicare and Medicaid Services was not necessary ("Obama skips Senate, fills
health care post," July 8). It bypassed the normal Senate confirmation process.
The Senate should have had the opportunity to hold hearings in order to ask the
nominee questions. Dr. Berwick has made a number of controversial statements,
including on rationing health care, redistribution of wealth and praise for the
British nationalized health care system.

Recess appointments have been used by both parties. But a recess appointment
should be the last step in a process and used only in response to flagrant and
inordinate delaying tactics. There were no attempts to delay the confirmation of
this nominee; Republicans had requested hearings.

The president and others in his party accused Republicans of stonewalling and
forcing his hand on this recess appointment. The vetting process had not been
completed. If the president thought it imperative to fill the vacancy, why did
he wait 15 months to nominate someone? In reality, the reason for this recess
appointment was to avoid discussion of this nominee's controversial statements
and continued debate on unpopular health care legislation and administration
policies.

This flies in the face of the president's vow of transparency.

The nominee may be qualified for the post. He may have rational explanations for
his controversial statements. We'll never know. The people should have the right
to hear him answer these questions.

Rich Stanze - Manchester

Tax money up in smoke

Regarding "Campus smoking is under assault" (July 9): This is more outrageous
government waste. Why should stimulus funds be spent on such a program? Ask any
one of the millions of unemployed people if they think this is a good use of our
tax funds.

And politicians wonder why citizens are angry and frustrated.

C. Flieg - St. Louis

Issue distortion

Apparently Leonard Pitts considers himself a member of the "cantankerous
apostles" of old-school journalism. In fact, a review of his "When strong
opinion avoids facts" (July 4) reveals him as the patron saint of
misinformation.

In his own words, he tosses "the raw, red meat of emotion for the benefit of the
heart" by repeatedly lambasting the Arizona governor's failure to "quantify"
illegal immigrant drug traffickers attempting to enter the United States. This
is issue distortion. Our national concern is the phenomenon of illegal
immigration itself.

He quotes a border agent union representative telling CNN that Arizona Gov. Jan.
Brewer's claim doesn't "comport with reality." Mr. Pitts' intention is to paint
Ms. Brewer, and the illegal immigration bill, as psychologically unsound.

Mr. Pitts, in reference to the dominance of drug mules, wrote, "I will say right
here that I have no idea whether that claim is true but I suspect it's not." Mr.
Pitts is a professional reporter who conveniently doesn't continue his sentence
with "although by the growing number of cartel-related deaths in Juarez, Mexico,
the problem cannot be denied."

Most devious of all is the beginning of the piece, disparaging "certain
conservative bloggers and the gullible people who believe them" so that if one
jumps on his bandwagon immediately, a negative perception of conservatives (and
Tea Partiers?) is reinforced throughout the work. The "wiser, more-enlightened
citizenry" Mr. Pitts referenced is coming - in spite of issue-distorting
propagandists like him.

Brian Turney - St. Louis County

Correlations

In "Truth and candor" (July 4), Charles Krauthammer tries to make the argument
that we have to realize that Muslim fundamentalism is the root cause of the
terrorist attacks on the United States and other Western countries. He attacks
Attorney General Eric Holder for not wanting to lay claim to this "truth." But
he leads one to believe that all Muslim fundamentalists are terrorists. All
Muslim terrorists are Muslim fundamentalists, but not all Muslim fundamentalists
are terrorists.

The same thing could be used against Christian fundamentalists. Some Christian
fundamentalists join militias and become violent. But there are many Christian
fundamentalists who are not violent. Mr. Krauthammer doesn't understand that
when Mr. Holder doesn't want to make a correlation between Muslim fundamentalism
and Muslim terrorism, it is because, as a good American, he may disagree with
what a person says, but he will defend to the death the right to say it.
Violence against others is the indefensible behavior.

Mr. Krauthammer is correct that we need to confront Muslim fundamentalism in the
marketplace of ideas. This is what Malcom Nance proposes in his book, "An End to
Al-Qaeda." He suggests that if we show people who might be drawn to this
ideology how it is the opposite of an enlightened interpretation of the Koran,
we might narrow the pool of potential recruits.

One problem is our education system. When the average young American thinks
Abraham Lincoln was president during the Revolutionary War, how can we teach the
nuances of mainline Islam versus Muslim fundamentalism?

John Stopple - Kirkwood

Potential disaster

In just the July 2 edition of the paper, we have two perfect examples of the
potential disasters we face with additional government control of our health
care system. In "Cochran dental chief put on leave," we learn again that the
government can't keep its few U.S. veterans' hospitals safe for those to whom we
owe a tremendous debt. Almost 2,000 patients were put at risk because the
hospital couldn't even be kept clean under government supervision.

Added to that is an article about government waste, "40 million doses of flu
vaccine expire." The government that plans to tell us how to operate our health
care system overestimated the need for swine flu vaccine by more than 70 million
doses. This means that more than $400 million of vaccine will be incinerated.

This is an example of the government's involvement in health care. Is this what
you want for your future?

Eleanor Reichert - St. Charles

Melody, grace

Life is a melody. Family and friends are the harmony. Beautiful music provides
the grace note. KFUO-FM Classic 99 certainly brought us much grace.

Mary McGinnis - Oakville

LOAD-DATE: July 12, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: LETTER

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                  Copyright 2010 St. Louis Post-Dispatch, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              74 of 137 DOCUMENTS


                       St. Louis Post-Dispatch (Missouri)

                             August 16, 2010 Monday
                                 SECOND EDITION

DIGEST - NATION

BYLINE: From wire reports

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. A5

LENGTH: 515 words

DATELINE: 0


Accused Craigslist killer is found dead in jail cell

A former medical student accused of killing a masseuse he met through Craigslist
apparently killed himself inside a Boston jail, where he was awaiting trial,
authorities said Sunday. Philip Markoff, 24, was found unresponsive in his cell
Sunday morning in the Nashua Street Jail, the Suffolk County district attorney's
office said in an e-mailed statement, and he was pronounced dead about 10:15
a.m. "Markoff was alone in his cell, and all evidence collected thus far
indicates that he took his own life," the statement said.

Warden resigns after escape - Authorities say a warden has quit her job at an
Arizona prison unit where three inmates escaped last month and set off a
nationwide search. Carl Stuart of Management & Training Corp., the company that
runs the state prison, told KNXV-TV that Unit Warden Lori Lieder and a security
chief resigned last week. John McCluskey, Tracy Province and Daniel Renwick
escaped July 31 with the alleged help of Casslyn Welch. Renwick and Province
have been recaptured, but McCluskey and Welch, his cousin, are the focus of a
nationwide hunt. Arizona State Prison officials said they had no information on
the report. Company officials didn't return calls for comment.

Protest backs immigration law - Tea Party groups converged on a remote section
of the U.S.-Mexican border on Sunday to show support for Arizona's controversial
immigration law and hear from more than a dozen conservative speakers, many of
them candidates running for office in crowded Republican primaries. Several
speaking to the crowd of more than 400 demanded that Congress and President
Barack Obama devote more resources to increase border security in remote areas
like the site of Sunday's demonstration southeast of Tucson, Ariz. "We are going
to force them to do it, because if they don't, we will not stop screaming," said
former state Sen. Pam Gorman, one of 10 Republicans vying for an open
congressional seat in north Phoenix. Gorman carried a handgun in a holster slung
over her shoulder as she mingled with demonstrators.

Report may aid crash inquiry - The chairwoman of the National Transportation
Safety Board says a pilot flying in the area of last week's Alaskan plane crash
that killed former Sen. Ted Stevens and four others has estimated that clouds
were as low as 600 feet. Chairwoman Deborah Hersman said at a news conference
Saturday that figure is well below previous estimates of between 1,000 and 2,000
feet. The pilot also said that visibility was between five to seven miles at the
time of the crash. The cause of Monday's crash on a remote mountainside in
southwest Alaska has not been determined.

Fire destroys post office - Federal agents were investigating a fire that roared
through a post office in northern California. Agents from the federal Bureau of
Alcohol, Tobacco, Firearms and Explosives were at the Healdsburg post office
Sunday, leading the investigation into Saturday evening's four-alarm fire. Two
firefighters were hospitalized with injuries that were not considered
life-threatening.

LOAD-DATE: August 17, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC:  Associated Press The National Transportation Safety Board released
this photo of the wreckage from the aircraft accident in Alaska that killed
former U.S. Sen. Ted Stevens and four others.

DOCUMENT-TYPE: BRIEF

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                  Copyright 2010 St. Louis Post-Dispatch, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              75 of 137 DOCUMENTS


                       St. Louis Post-Dispatch (Missouri)

                            February 6, 2009 Friday
                                 THIRD EDITION

Immigration issue hounds nominee GOP senators hold up nomination of top economic
official, seek signed pact.

BYLINE: By Tony Messenger POST-DISPATCH JEFFERSON CITY BUREAU

SECTION: METRO; Pg. D1

LENGTH: 522 words


On Thursday, senators agreed to temporarily pull the nomination of Martinez from
the floor to give Rupp and the governor's office the weekend to work out a deal
that would allow her to go forward.

JEFFERSON CITY - It started as a simple request for a meeting.

State Sen. Scott Rupp, R-Wentzville, said he wouldn't vote to confirm Gov. Jay
Nixon's choice to oversee Missouri economic development until he had a chance to
meet her.

That meeting with St. Louis lawyer Linda Martinez took place Thursday morning,
but Rupp still isn't satisfied.

Now, Rupp and other Republican senators are continuing their three-week-long
stare-down with the governor, refusing to confirm Martinez because they fear she
is soft on the issue of illegal immigration.

Rupp, who sponsored last year's bill that strengthened state laws governing
illegal immigration, said he will continue to oppose Martinez's nomination until
she and the governor sign a letter assuring him they will follow the new law.

"Just reassure me that we're going to fight to protect American jobs," Rupp
said.

After his meeting with Martinez, Rupp made the request to Nixon chief of staff
John Watson.

"He got pretty heated in my office," Rupp said of Watson. "I was told by the
governor's chief of staff 'we're not going to sign anything.'"

Nixon spokesman Jack Cardetti confirmed that no such letter would be
forthcoming.

"When she took office, she took an oath to uphold the constitution, and that's
what she will do," Cardetti said of Martinez, 54, who works for the downtown St.
Louis firm of Bryan Cave.

Martinez led the legal battle against Valley Park's attempts to enact strict
anti-illegal immigration ordinances, and that position is what worries Rupp and
other senators.

Freshman Sen. Jim Lembke, R-Lemay, and Sen. Jane Cunningham, R-Chesterfield,
both raised questions on the Senate floor Thursday over Martinez's past
statements and suggested they, like Rupp, would continue to oppose her
nomination without more assurances from the governor's office.

The new immigration law penalizes employers who misclassify any workers as
"contractors" in an effort to avoid paying taxes or benefits. Rupp said the
issue was of particular importance to his constituents because twice in the last
few years, contractors who were receiving state tax credits were accused of
employing illegal immigrants.

"To me, it's very simple," Rupp said. "My constituents have been burned twice on
this."

On Thursday, senators agreed to temporarily pull the nomination of Martinez from
the floor to give Rupp and the governor's office the weekend to work out a deal
that would allow her to go forward.

Nixon's nomination of Martinez to the $120,000-a-year job had earned praise from
the St. Louis business community. She has been directly involved with many
downtown redevelopment projects and is seen as an expert in the field of
economic development and tax credits.

Cardetti said the governor regretted that on the very day the House was passing
a version of the governor's jobs' bill that "one senator" would hold up
Martinez's nomination.

"We'd like the Senate to go forward with her nomination," Cardetti said.

LOAD-DATE: February 6, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC:  PHOTO - Gov. Jay Nixon answers questions with his choice to lead the
state Department of Economic Development, St. Louis lawyer Linda Martinez,
earlier this year.  File photo

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                  Copyright 2009 St. Louis Post-Dispatch, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              76 of 137 DOCUMENTS


                       St. Louis Post-Dispatch (Missouri)

                            March 11, 2009 Wednesday
                                 THIRD EDITION

Town rallies for immigrant teen chasing dream

BYLINE: BILL MCCLELLAN

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. A2

LENGTH: 896 words

DATELINE: 0


"Our fax machine is out of ink," said Katie Herbert Meyer, legal director of
Interfaith Legal Services for Immigrants. She was referring to the outpouring of
support she has received for Noe Guzman, a 17-year-old from New Haven who
learned he was an illegal alien when he tried to join the Marine Corps last
year.

Noe (pronounced Noah) is a small-town kid with big dreams. He wants to be a
doctor. His family does not have a lot of money, so he decided to go into the
military after he graduates from high school this May. He'd then use the
educational benefits to go to college and medical school. He opted for the
Marine Corps. He came to St. Louis in August to complete his enlistment. But
something was wrong with his Social Security card, the one he had used for
part-time jobs after school. It turned out to be bogus. What's more, he was an
illegal alien. He was suddenly facing deportation.

Talk about falling into a rabbit hole. Noe barely remembered coming to this
country when he was 4. He had grown up assuming that he and his mother had come
here legally. "I thought for sure I was a citizen. I didn't even think about
it," he told me. He and his mom lived in a small town in Michigan. They moved to
New Haven in 2003 when Noe was going into seventh grade.

He did fine in school. He ran cross-country. He participated in extracurricular
activities. He had part-time jobs. He was popular. He had a girlfriend. He was a
typical American kid. No, not typical. Exemplary.

He eventually got a lawyer from Interfaith Legal Services for Immigrants who
gave him some bad news. There isn't a whole lot we can do, she explained.

A person facing deportation can file an application for cancellation of removal,
but that requires, among other things, that the applicant demonstrate that a
family member who is a citizen or a lawful permanent resident would face an
exceptional hardship if the applicant were to be deported. So maybe if Noe would
have dropped out of high school and fathered a couple of kids, he'd have been
all right. But he took another path - he stayed in school and then decided to
join the Marines.

When news of Noe's plight got out, the people of New Haven rallied to his side.
They asked Meyer, What can we do? Letters might help, she said. About all we can
do is ask the chief counsel of Immigration and Customs Enforcement to exercise
prosecutorial discretion and terminate the removal proceedings, she said.

New Haven is not San Francisco. It's small-town America. In the truest sense of
the word, it's a conservative place. It's represented in the state Legislature
by Rep. Charlie Schlottach. According to the official manual of the state, he's
the owner-operator of a 200 cow-calf operation on a fifth-generation family
farm. He's a Republican and a member of the Owensville Gun Club, the American
Wild Turkey Federation and the Gasconade County Bible Society. Those are not the
credentials of a bleeding-heart liberal.

But Schlottach has been strong in support of Noe. Here is an excerpt from
Schlottach's letter. "We have a young man who wants to fight to become an
American; a young man who has met and surpassed the American standard of work,
willing to obey this country's laws. A young man who has the support of every
teacher, school administrator, fellow student and community member I have
encountered. ... I offer my whole-hearted support to Noe and his quest to gain
American citizenship."

My favorite letter came from a woman who described herself as a lifelong
resident of New Haven: "I never expected to write a letter concerning immigrant
rights. In my mind, the situation was quite clear; a person was either a U.S.
citizen or he wasn't. That seems simple enough. However, Noe Guzman's situation
brings up a facet of immigrant rights that I hadn't previously considered -
those of immigrant children. Young immigrant children don't have a choice in
whether or not they enter this country. Once here, they grow up learning to love
the United States just like other children. They enroll in our schools and
become a part of us.

"You may look at Noe Guzman and see an illegal immigrant. That's not what I see.
I see Noe, the boy who sang a solo as the Cowardly Lion in a middle school
musical; Noe, the boy who was the salutatorian of his 8th grade class; Noe, the
lifeguard at the city pool; and most recently, Noe, the kind young man I ran
into at the veterinarian's office who offered to carry my dying Labrador
retriever to my car.

"I can no longer look at immigration in shades of black and white or in terms of
right and wrong."

All told, about 40 people sent letters, and about 300 people signed a petition.

Noe's hearing was Tuesday. He was accompanied by his mother, who is also facing
deportation, and his girlfriend's mother, Sandy Bockting, whose daughter,
Alexis, also wants to be a doctor. The hearing lasted only moments. Noe won.
That is, the chief counsel of ICE agreed to terminate the removal proceedings.
Noe will graduate with his class in May. But what then? He will have no legal
status. He can't go to a public college in Missouri, and he can't join the
military.

Meyer said the only hope is something called a private bill. Somebody from
Congress would have to sponsor a bill that would grant him permanent lawful
residence. Then he could join the military and start on a path toward the
citizenship he once assumed he had.

LOAD-DATE: March 11, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES:  NAME HERE

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                  Copyright 2009 St. Louis Post-Dispatch, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              77 of 137 DOCUMENTS


                       St. Louis Post-Dispatch (Missouri)

                            March 19, 2009 Thursday
                                 SECOND EDITION

Immigrant status issue in killings Some in Hannibal wonder why suspect hadn't
been deported.

BYLINE: By Jim Salter The Associated Press

SECTION: METRO; Pg. C4

LENGTH: 605 words

DATELINE: 0


HANNIBAL - The Hannibal police officer was finishing up mundane paperwork on a
quiet Saturday morning when Manuel Cazares walked into the station, blood
splattered on his hands and shoes.

Cazares put his hands out, crossed them, and told the officer to arrest him.

"I killed two people," he allegedly said.

Details surrounding the allegations are far too common: an abusive relationship,
a jilted lover, a sudden attack. But some in this Mississippi River community of
17,000 best known as Mark Twain's hometown aren't just outraged by the violence.
They also question why Cazares was in Hannibal at all.

Cazares admitted after his arrest that he is an illegal immigrant. He had
several run-ins with law enforcement before the homicides, but officials had
never questioned his status.

Now he is charged with two counts of second-degree murder and armed criminal
action in the Feb. 28 deaths of his ex-girlfriend, Amanda Thomas, 27, and Carl
Patrick Epley, 25.

During his three years in Hannibal, Cazares, 32, managed to avoid detection,
despite a few arrests on traffic charges and a property damage conviction after
an arrest for allegedly beating up Thomas and tearing up her home. Thomas also
had sought three restraining orders against Cazares.

"I don't know how this happens," said Tina White-Masengill, Thomas' sister. "My
stepdad told police many times, 'I don't even think the guy's a legal citizen.'"

But police say his name wasn't in a database maintained by Immigration and
Customs Enforcement. Police and Cazares' boss at the Gran Rio Mexican Restaurant
also say he had authentic-looking identification, including a Social Security
card. And police noted that Cazares speaks fluent English.

Cazares' attorney did not return phone messages seeking comment. Cazares is
being held in lieu of $1 million bail.

Hannibal police declined several interview requests from The Associated Press
for this story but said soon after the killing that they had received several
angry calls, some with racial overtones.

At a news conference, police Capt. James Hark told reporters that tracking
illegal immigrants is a federal responsibility and "not within the authority" of
his department.

The department is sympathetic to the families of the victims, Hark said, "but,
in retrospect, there's nothing in the system that would have prevented this from
happening."

ICE spokesman Carl Rusnok refused to lay blame, saying the agency seeks to work
closely with local police to uncover illegal immigrants.

"When local law enforcement suspect that they have arrested an illegal alien on
criminal charges, we encourage them to forward those suspicions to ICE, where we
will make the appropriate determination whether that person is in the country
legally or illegally, and whether he is deportable," Rusnok said.

Sgt. Jason Clark of the Missouri Highway Patrol's criminal division said he
could recall only a couple of cases in the state in which an illegal immigrant
was suspected of murder: one in Maryville in 2007 and one in Kansas City last
year.

The relationship between Cazares and Thomas had long been rocky, with Thomas
seeking restraining orders in 2007 and again early last year. Marion County
prosecutor Tom Redington said the first order was dismissed when Thomas failed
to appear at a court hearing; the second was dismissed at her request.

Finally, around Thanksgiving, Thomas followed through and obtained a restraining
order that was supposed to keep Cazares away from the small brick duplex where
she lived with their 20-month-old son and a 7-year-old daughter from a previous
relationship.

Yet neighbors said they often saw Cazares in the area.

LOAD-DATE: March 19, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                  Copyright 2009 St. Louis Post-Dispatch, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              78 of 137 DOCUMENTS


                       St. Louis Post-Dispatch (Missouri)

                             March 23, 2009 Monday
                                 THIRD EDITION

Literacy programs States with huge budget shortfalls are cutting programs for
immigrants who rely on them. IMMIGRATION

BYLINE: By DEEPTI HAJELA The Associated Press

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. A8

LENGTH: 551 words

DATELINE: 0


NEW YORK - Farzana Morshed arrived from Bangladesh three years ago without any
real grasp of English. Her husband had to help her open a bank account, an
interpreter was necessary when she needed medical care and she couldn't go
anywhere by herself for fear of getting lost.

Morshed soon got the language lessons she needed through her local library and a
community-based nonprofit organization, and her English is good enough that she
can work as an interpreter at a hospital.

But other immigrants around the country are worried that they won't have the
same chance as Morshed because states are slashing budgets for adult literacy
classes - an important lifeline in immigrant communities.

The New York state budget proposed by Gov. David Paterson would cut three
programs that contain an English education component. The proposed budget takes
funding for the three programs from nearly $13 million down to $8.6 million, a
cut of about 33 percent.

At the city level, Mayor Michael Bloomberg's budget proposal doesn't include two
City Council streams of funding that support teaching English, said Anthony Ng,
deputy director of policy and advocacy at United Neighborhood Houses. Those
programs currently receive almost $7 million.

It's an issue in other parts of the country as well, said Margie McHugh,
co-director of the National Center on Immigrant Integration Policy at the
Migration Policy Institute. She said there is great concern in several states
that budget shortfalls will cause cutbacks in adult literacy programs, noting
that it already has happened in California.

Immigrants in New York hope the money will be restored by the time the state and
city budgets are finalized. The city programs also were not included in
Bloomberg's proposals in previous years, but they were added in during the
budget process, Ng said, although not at the funding levels advocates hoped to
see.

At a rally Wednesday at a park in the Jackson Heights section of Queens,
immigrants spoke out against the funding cuts and carried signs reading
"Rebuild, Invest in Adult Literacy" and "More Education for Parents, Better
Future for Children."

Advocates say the resources for teaching English to immigrants already are
vastly outstripped by demand. At the Shorefront YM-YWHA of Brighton Beach in
Brooklyn, several hundred students are taking English classes at any given time
and easily that many more are on a waiting list.

Susan Fox, executive director of Shorefront, said immigrants are eager to learn
English, recognizing how vital it is not only for economic advancement but to be
fully engaged in life in the United States.

"Every cut in the adult literacy world will mean fewer people helped," she said.

In California, those cuts are a reality. Adult education there is run through
two systems, community colleges and programs administered by school districts,
said Matthew Smith, president of the California Council of Adult Education.

The recently approved state budget cut funds for adult education run by school
districts by 15 percent and an additional 5 percent cut is coming, he said.
Also, whatever funds districts do receive can be used at their discretion,so
they could decide to use the money to plug holes in their K-12 programs and not
fund adult programs at all, Smith said. "It is that bad here," he said.

LOAD-DATE: March 24, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                  Copyright 2009 St. Louis Post-Dispatch, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              79 of 137 DOCUMENTS


                       St. Louis Post-Dispatch (Missouri)

                             March 23, 2009 Monday
                                 THIRD EDITION

True bee-liever Our View | Hard worka and a lot of studying pay off for a recent
immigrant OPINION

SECTION: EDITORIAL; Pg. A15

LENGTH: 482 words

DATELINE: 0


In this age of Bernie Madoff and bogus bonuses, Yulkendy Valdez reminds us that
there are no short cuts to success.

Until four years ago, Yulkendy, now 14, lived with her family in a town called
Haina south of the capital city of Santo Domingo in the Dominican Republic. The
Caribbean nation is most famous for producing star baseball players like Albert
Pujols, great cigars and cane sugar.

Her mother, Kendy, said her working-class family followed the classic immigrant
dream to seek a better life in the United States. They left the tropics bound
for the St. Louis area. How much English did Yulkendy know: Nada.

A new land, culture and language would intimidate anyone, much less a
10-year-old. But she made a bold decision to enroll in regular all-English
classes in the Ferguson-Florissant School District. Special classes were
available for a wide range of foreign-born students learning English, but she
took the plunge.

Yulkendy immersed herself in English: television, sure, but mostly books, books
and more books. She discovered that her Spanish and partial French language
skills had much in common with Latin word derivations, which she used as a
springboard to master English.

Her ganas (desire) supercharged her efforts to learn English and become a super
speller, one who could match up with the best and brightest native English
speakers.

She trained like an Olympian - always reading and drilling with flash cards and
dictionaries. She worked with a parent volunteer, Kim Simon, and studied as much
as four to five hours a day after school, working on English and spelling.

"I just liked the idea of the competition, words and their origins," she told us
the other day. Her self motivation dazzled her classmates, who playfully ribbed
her as "The Human Dictionary" and "The Nerd."

On March 14, it all paid off: The eighth-grader at Ferguson Middle School won
first place among 33 finalists culled from a field of 300 contestants in the
Post-Dispatch Spelling Bee. It earned her trip to Washington, D.C., in May to
represent our region in the Scripps National Spelling Bee - a big deal for any
student, but a major accomplishment for someone who's spoken English for only
four years.

Yulkendy was calm and composed after winning the contest. But her mom broke down
in joyful tears. She doesn't have her daughter's command of English, but in
Spanish, she said: "We are so proud of her. She is such a great kid."

School principal Susan Kelly said Yulkendy excels in many ways. She studies in
the gifted program, plays sports and remains popular among her classmates. "She
has a hunger for learning and absorbing everything," Ms. Kelly said. "She is
amazing and just so dedicated and focused."

Yulkendy says it's too early to plot her future, but business or law sound
intriguing. For now, she has but one goal, the national bee, and she's focused
like a laser. St. Louis is rooting for her.

LOAD-DATE: March 24, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                  Copyright 2009 St. Louis Post-Dispatch, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              80 of 137 DOCUMENTS


                       St. Louis Post-Dispatch (Missouri)

                             April 9, 2009 Thursday
                                 THIRD EDITION

DIGEST

BYLINE: From News Services

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. A10

LENGTH: 848 words

DATELINE: 0


U.S. electric grid is reportedly hacked by cyber spies

Spies hacked into the U.S. electric grid and left behind mechanisms for them to
disrupt service, according to a newspaper report Wednesday that renewed
questions about the security of key pieces of national infrastructure.

The Wall Street Journal said that the intruders have not yet sought to damage
the nation's electric grid, but that they could try in a war or some other
crisis. Government officials declined to comment on the report.

Deaths on border rise - Illegal immigrant deaths along the U.S.-Mexico border
have risen in the past six months despite a nearly 25 percent drop in arrests by
the Border Patrol, according to patrol statistics. The number of migrant deaths
along the roughly 2,000-mile border increased by nearly 7 percent between Oct.
1, 2008, and March 31, 2009. The remains of 128 people were found during the
six-month period, compared to 120 in the same period a year earlier, the patrol
said.

Apartheid lawsuits allowed by judge - A New York judge says lawsuits by
apartheid victims accusing automakers and IBM of supporting racial segregation
in South Africa can go to trial. Judge Shira Scheindlin has dismissed defense
arguments that allowing the lawsuits might affect relations between the United
States and South Africa.

Gunman fired 98 shots in a minute - The man who gunned down 13 people at a
Binghamton, N.Y., immigration center fired 98 shots from two handguns in a
little more than a minute, police said. Police said almost all 13 victims died
instantly. Four others were wounded. Jiverly Wong killed himself. He was found
with a satchel containing several full ammunition magazines.

Woman kills son, herself - A Florida woman who fatally shot her son then killed
herself at a shooting range said she was the anti-Christ and that she needed to
save her son. In rambling, teary audio recordings left for her boyfriend and
authorities, as well as shorter suicide notes, Marie Moore, 44, apologized
several times and said repeatedly: "I had to send my son to heaven and myself to
hell."

Man kills girlfriend, dies in shootout - A man killed his girlfriend and started
a shootout in the woods with deputies. A lawman and the gunman were left dead,
investigators said. Police said suspect Clarence Douglas Phillips, 43, died from
gunshot wounds sustained during the shootout.

Firefighter charged with starting fire - A decorated firefighter with a history
of erratic behavior was charged with setting a fire that burned more than 2
square miles in and around a wildlife refuge. John David Berken, 40, was accused
of setting the blaze Monday at the Carlos Avery Wildlife Refuge, north of the
Twin Cities in Minnesota. He was being held in lieu of $50,000 bail.

Hospitals reach settlement over ditching patients - The Los Angeles city
attorney's office says a $1.6 million settlement has been reached with two
Orange County hospitals accused of improperly discharging and dumping
psychiatric patients on LA's Skid Row. The settlement also bars College
Hospitals in Costa Mesa and Cerritos from transporting homeless psychiatric
patients to downtown shelters.

Two sentenced over UFO hoax - Two New Jersey men who staged a UFO hoax will have
more earthly pursuits, such as picking up trash from the side of the road. A
judge fined Chris Russo, of Morris Plains, and Joe Rudy, of Chester Township,
$250 each and ordered them to perform 50 hours of community service. Authorities
say the pair triggered a flurry of 911 calls when they lit road flares tied to
helium balloons and released them in central New Jersey in January and February.

Former butcher convicted - A former butcher has been convicted of murdering and
dismembering his boss, then bagging the body parts and scattering them on street
corners for collection. A jury in the Bronx found Victor Gonzalez guilty of
second-degree murder in the death of Wilfredo Pinto in 2006.

Longfin smelt not protected - Federal authorities say a small fish in Northern
California's Sacramento-San Joaquin river delta does not deserve protection on
the federal endangered species list. The U.S. Fish and Wildlife Service
announced its decision after a 12-month review.

Church will hold Easter service in a bar - A fledging Little Rock, Ark., church
called the River will hold both of its Easter services in a bar. Pastor Shane
Montgomery said it is an effort to attract a new audience to his
nondenominational ministry.

Deer is hit three times on highway - A deer was hit by a car on a highway near
Little Rock, Ark., charged through the glass doors of a travel plaza, ran about
100 feet and crashed through a second set of doors, finding itself outside
again. The deer then ran into traffic and was hit by another vehicle, crossed
the median and was hit by a truck. Then it died.

Columbus a 'Fall' guy - Students demanded that Brown University stop observing
Columbus Day, citing the explorer's violent treatment of Native Americans. But
no one wanted to give up the day off, so the school created a new holiday called
"Fall Weekend" - which will be held on Columbus Day.

LOAD-DATE: April 10, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: BRIEF

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                  Copyright 2009 St. Louis Post-Dispatch, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              81 of 137 DOCUMENTS


                       St. Louis Post-Dispatch (Missouri)

                            April 16, 2009 Thursday
                                 THIRD EDITION

Obama raises hope in Mexico Attention is welcome, though trip is unlikely to
resolve border, immigration issues.

BYLINE: By Todd J. Gillman o Dallas Morning News The Associated Press
contributed to this story.

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. A6

LENGTH: 688 words

DATELINE: 0


WASHINGTON - President Barack Obama's first visit to Mexico, which begins today,
comes against a backdrop of drug violence, economic malaise, trade tension - and
high hopes that the new president will bring renewed attention to the southern
neighbor.

Obama aides, however, have sought to temper such expectations, suggesting that
goodwill and good intentions are more likely than breakthroughs on border
security, immigration or other issues.

"We see this trip as part of the process of the United States re-engaging with
this hemisphere," said Jeffrey Davidow, a former ambassador to Mexico who has
been advising Obama on the trip to Mexico and a regional summit meeeting in
Trinidad and Tobago this weekend.

He acknowledged a strong perception in Latin America that "the United States has
turned its attention elsewhere, has neglected its relationships in this part of
the world."

Counteracting that perception is a top priority for Obama, Davidow said - though
with recession and war to cope with, analysts aren't sure how long it will take
for this president, like others, to become distracted.

On the U.S. side, there is growing pressure to address potential spillover
violence from Mexico's two-year war to dismantle drug cartels.

On Wednesday, the Obama administration appointed former federal prosecutor Alan
Bersin as its "border czar."

Bersin, now the assistant Homeland Security secretary for international affairs,
held a similar title from 1995 to 1998 - Justice Department special
representative for the Southwest border. He acknowledged the difficulties of his
assignment as he stood on a Rio Grande bridge linking El Paso and Ciudad Juarez,
Mexico, a city especially plagued by the drug violence that has killed more than
10,650 people in that country since December 2006.

"I understand as a father and a former prosecutor that we need to actually deal
with the problems," Bersin said.

Mexicans are eager for a U.S. crackdown on the southbound flow of guns and cash.

On Sunday, Mexico's ambassador in Washington, Arturo Sarukhan, said 90 percent
of guns seized from drug cartels originated in the United States, and cited a
"direct correlation" to the expiration of a U.S. ban on assault weapons in 2004.
"Reinstating the ban ... could have a profound impact on the number and the
caliber of weapons going down to Mexico," he told CBS' "Face the Nation."

The Obama administration has shown little appetite to fight that battle in
Congress. But last month, the Justice and Homeland Security departments
announced tougher steps to track illicit guns.

"The president understands the challenges presented by the illegal flow of
weapons from the United States to Mexico," said Obama's senior adviser on
Western Hemisphere affairs, Daniel Restrepo, and he "believes we can make a
great deal of headway enforcing the laws that are on the books today."

Obama will no doubt use the visit to laud President Felipe Calderon's effort to
dismantle the cartels, at a cost of more than 10,000 Mexican lives in two years.
Obama and Calderon are likely to discuss frustration with delays in the Merida
Initiative, the anti-corruption, drug-fighting plan Calderon signed with
then-President George W. Bush. The United States promised $1.4 billion over
three years but has delivered only $7 million so far. U.S. lawmakers were
dismayed to learn that it could take two years to deliver five Bell twin-engine
helicopters that would let counternarcotics teams reach targets anywhere in
Mexico in 90 minutes.

"Clearly, the kind of work that needs to be done is greatly aided by air
mobility," Anthony Placido, the Drug Enforcement Administration's intelligence
director, said Wednesday, adding that efforts were under way to speed delivery.

Besides drugs and border violence, trade will also be high on the agenda.

Congress triggered a low-intensity trade war earlier this year by banning
Mexican long-haul trucks from U.S. roads - a violation of the North American
Free Trade Agreement. Mexico retaliated by slapping tariffs on $2.4 billion in
imports. Restrepo said Obama was "diligently" working through the issue. Few
analysts expect a resolution soon.

LOAD-DATE: April 17, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                  Copyright 2009 St. Louis Post-Dispatch, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              82 of 137 DOCUMENTS


                       St. Louis Post-Dispatch (Missouri)

                             April 26, 2009 Sunday
                                 FOURTH EDITION

The immigration debate here needs new perspective New arrivals in the Midwest
can help fill demand for low-skill jobs in areas of declining population.

BYLINE: DAVID NICKLAUS o dnicklaus@post-dispatch.com > 314-340-8213

SECTION: BUSINESS; Pg. D1

LENGTH: 591 words

DATELINE: 0


A lot of Midwesterners figure they're not much affected by immigration. Aside
from the occasional raid at an Iowa meat-packing plant, they figure this is an
issue that mainly concerns states to the south and west.

Not true, according to a new report from the Chicago Council on Global Affairs.
Author Rob Paral, a researcher at the University of Notre Dame, says the
heartland has much to gain from a comprehensive set of immigration reforms and
much to lose if we let fear and short-term economic concerns drive the debate.

Paral focuses on Mexicans, the most numerous immigrant group in the Midwest and
nationally. Chicago, Kansas City and a few other places have long had a sizeable
Mexican population, but immigration to rural areas is a more recent phenomenon.

The new arrivals represent a rare demographic bright spot for the rural Midwest.
In most of northern Missouri and a large swath of western and Southern Illinois,
the native population is shrinking while the immigrant population is growing,
sometimes rapidly. Missouri as a whole has seven times as many Mexican
immigrants as it had in 1990.

These population patterns provide a powerful counterweight to one of immigration
opponents' main arguments. They contend that immigration is harmful, because
people from outside the U.S. are taking jobs away from low-skilled native
workers.

In an area where the overall population is declining or stagnant, this argument
loses its potency. Without an adequate supply of labor, employers would be under
pressure to move out of the region. Or, in many cases, the jobs wouldn't get
created in the first place.

"The Midwest economy - and, indeed, the U.S. economy - is creating large numbers
of low-skill jobs that far exceed the number held by Mexican immigrants," Paral
writes. "This suggests that Mexican immigrants are not taking away jobs, but
filling the large increases in demand for those jobs."

Midwestern manufacturers, he contends, would be in even more trouble without
their immigrant workers. Mexicans make up 16 percent of the manufacturing work
force in Illinois, and 4.5 percent throughout the Midwest. In 1990, the Midwest
figure was just 1.6 percent.

The reality is, in the Midwest as elsewhere, that the majority of new Mexican
immigrants are undocumented. How we, as a nation, deal with them is one of the
great unresolved political issues of our time.

Even as we erect new barriers at the border, we need to recognize that millions
of undocumented immigrants are already here. When former President George W.
Bush proposed giving them a path to legal status, opponents accused him of
promoting amnesty for lawbreakers.

Paral proposes a "Midwestern response" that would reframe immigration as an
economic issue. In the past, he notes, agricultural interests in Texas and
California have helped shape policies that ensured them the workers they needed.
Midwestern leaders need to do the same for their companies and communities.

The danger is that, during hard economic times, we may turn this logic on its
head. A separate Chicago Council study, based on a public opinion poll, says
that a majority of Americans think immigration is bad for the economy. Only 15
percent favor increased legal immigration.

Those perceptions won't turn around quickly, so the immigration issue is likely
to remain on the back burner until the recession is over. At some point,
however, we need a solution that ends the uncertainty - employers' uncertainty
about their immigrant workers, and workers' uncertainty about their futures.

LOAD-DATE: April 27, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: COLUMN

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                  Copyright 2009 St. Louis Post-Dispatch, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              83 of 137 DOCUMENTS


                       St. Louis Post-Dispatch (Missouri)

                               May 8, 2009 Friday
                                 THIRD EDITION

Budget would halt growth of barrier on Mexican border

BYLINE: From news services

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. A8

LENGTH: 390 words

DATELINE: 0


President Barack Obama's budget blueprint announced on Thursday canceled plans
to extend the controversial barrier fence along the U.S.-Mexico border beyond
the 670 miles already completed or planned, symbolically breaking with a
much-heralded approach to border security advocated by then-President George W.
Bush.

However, federal officials plan to start construction within weeks on a new
"virtual fence" along the border. They say the "fence" could almost completely
cover the nearly 2,000-mile frontier within five years.

The Obama administration's budget provides limited funds for roads, lights and
so-called tactical infrastructure - but not a dime to extend the pedestrian
fencing and vehicle barriers erected along roughly one-third of the nation's
1,947-mile border with Mexico.

The top financial officer at the Department of Homeland Security, Peggy Sherry,
and her team said in a telephone conference call that the Obama administration
would not extend the barrier network that has irked neighboring Mexico and
stirred concerns among immigrant-advocate organizations.

As for the virtual fence, the first permanent towers holding sensors, cameras
and communications gear to detect drug smugglers and illegal immigrants will be
built along 53 miles of Arizona's border with Mexico, said Mark Borkowski, a
Customs and Border Protection official in charge of the program.

More towers, as much as 120 feet tall and spaced miles apart, will follow on the
remaining 320 miles of the state's southern border. Virtual fencing then will go
up in New Mexico, followed by California and most of Texas, said Borkowski,
executive director of the Homeland Security Department's Secure Border
Initiative program.

"Construction should start imminently," Borkowski said. "We're in the final
throes of convincing ourselves that the engineering is fine."

The plans follow a prototype virtual fence that federal officials and others
found inadequate for the job, and Borkowski said improvement probably would be
made to the final version after border agents began using it.

The primary contractor, the Boeing Co., has received about $600 million so far
for technology development on the initiative. As of a year ago, Boeing also had
received some $260 million for construction of physical border fences and
vehicle barriers, primarily in Arizona and Texas.

LOAD-DATE: May 9, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                  Copyright 2009 St. Louis Post-Dispatch, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              84 of 137 DOCUMENTS


                       St. Louis Post-Dispatch (Missouri)

                              May 15, 2009 Friday
                                 THIRD EDITION

DIGEST - WORLD

BYLINE: BY Byline here o email@post-dispatch.com > 314-340-8000 From news
services

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. A17

LENGTH: 496 words

DATELINE: 0


Mexican immigration declines by 25 percent

Census data from the Mexican government indicate an extraordinary decline in the
number of Mexican immigrants coming to the United States.

The recently released data show that about 226,000 fewer people emigrated from
Mexico to other countries during the year that ended in August 2008 than during
the previous year, a decline of 25 percent. All but a very small fraction of
emigration, both legal and illegal, from Mexico is to the United States.

Mexican and American researchers say that the current decline, which has also
been manifested in a decrease in arrests along the border, is largely a result
of Mexicans' deciding to delay illegal crossings because of the lack of jobs in
the ailing American economy.

Peru cracking down on police - Peruvian police officers who "damage the image"
of law enforcement by engaging in homosexual behavior can lose their jobs under
a new law designed to overhaul an unpopular national police force. The new law
that went into effect Tuesday also says officers will be fired for taking bribes
and abusing detainees.

U.S. sailors apprehend 17 suspected pirates - A team of specialized American
sailors apprehended 17 suspected pirates who attacked an Egyptian merchant ship
in the dangerous waters off Yemen, the U.S. Navy said.

Netanyahu asks pope to speak out - Israeli Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu
appealed to Pope Benedict XVI "to make his voice heard" and use his moral
authority to condemn the harsh anti-Israel rhetoric voiced by Iran's hard-line
president. The two men met privately for about 15 minutes, sharing their views
about the Middle East.

Kenyan aristocrat gets light sentence - In a case that stirred fierce
resentments over race and land, a Kenyan judge sentenced the son of a baron to
eight months in prison for killing a black poacher on his vast family estate.
The sentence handed down to Thomas Cholmondeley - a fraction of the possible
life in prison he faced - provoked shouts of protest from Maasai tribesmen and
sighs of relief from white landowners.

Program to harvest kangaroos is suspended - A court suspended a government
program to kill 7,000 kangaroos on federal land near the Australian capital,
halting efforts to thin a mushrooming population of the beloved marsupials that
authorities say are threatening endangered species.

North Korea to try journalists in June - Two U.S. journalists arrested near
North Korea's border with China on accusations of illegal entry and "hostile
acts" will be tried by Pyongyang in early June, state media said. Laura Ling and
Euna Lee, reporters for Al Gore's Current TV media venture, were detained March
17 while reporting on North Korean refugees living in China.

Radio host asks Clinton for help - Conservative radio host Michael Savage has
had some very tough words for Hillary Clinton in the past, but now is asking her
as secretary of state to take up his case as a human rights violation after the
United Kingdom banned him.

LOAD-DATE: May 16, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: BRIEF

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                  Copyright 2009 St. Louis Post-Dispatch, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              85 of 137 DOCUMENTS


                       St. Louis Post-Dispatch (Missouri)

                             June 20, 2009 Saturday
                                 THIRD EDITION

NATION DIGEST

BYLINE: From news services

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. A7

LENGTH: 717 words

DATELINE: 0


Marijuana smoke tied to cancer

Marijuana smoke has joined tobacco smoke and hundreds of other chemicals on a
list of substances California regulators say cause cancer. The ruling Friday by
the Office of Environmental Health Hazard Assessment applies only to marijuana
smoke, not the plant itself. Spokesman Sam Delson says the state agency found
marijuana smoke contains 33 of the same harmful chemicals as tobacco smoke.

Geese are killed - About 800 Canada geese around New York City's two airports
have been trapped and euthanized, part of an effort to reduce the type of bird
strike that led to a jetliner landing in the Hudson River.

California may parole immigrants to save money - California Gov. Arnold
Schwarzenegger is proposing to save more than $180 million by cutting short the
sentences of thousands of immigrants in state prisons and turning them over to
federal authorities for deportation. Immigration authorities warn that a mass
release could swamp the federal system.

Canada may toughen tobacco laws - Tobacco advocates used to being on the
defensive in their own country are fuming over a Canadian proposal they say
could essentially ban some American leaf often used in cigarettes sold across
the northern border. The measure winding through Canada's parliament would
outlaw selling tobacco embellished with fruit and candy flavors, which health
officials say entice youngsters to smoke.

U.S., Switzerland make deal on tax data - The United States and Switzerland have
agreed to increase the amount of tax information they share to help crack down
on tax evasion. U.S. legal authorities are conducting investigations into
allegations that giant Swiss bank UBS AG helped thousands of American customers
evade taxes.

Koch has heart surgery - Former New York City Mayor Ed Koch, 84, is recovering
after surgery to replace a heart valve.

A lawyer in the trash - An Indiana lawyer who was found asleep headfirst in a
neighbor's trash can after a night of drinking has apologized and says he's
embarrassed. No charges have been filed against Larry Wilder, who is the
Jeffersonville City Council's attorney.

WASHINGTON DIGEST

Sotomayor resigns from women's club

Supreme Court nominee Sonia Sotomayor resigned from an elite all-women's club on
Friday after Republicans questioned her participation in it. Sotomayor says she
resigned from the Belizean Grove because she didn't want questions about it to
"distract anyone from my qualifications and record."

House increases own budget - The recession and rising joblessness has millions
of Americans cutting their household budgets, but times are flush for lawmakers.
The House of Representatives, with little comment or opposition, approved an 8
percent increase in the budget for members' office expenses.

Democrats offer new health care plan - Trying to regain momentum on a core issue
of Barack Obama's presidency, House Democrats unveiled legislation they said
would cover virtually all the nearly 50 million uninsured Americans. Major
provisions of the draft bill would impose new responsibilities on individuals
and employers to get coverage, end insurance company practices that deny
coverage to the sick and create a new government-sponsored plan to compete with
private companies. But it remained far from clear how the Democrats intend to
pay for their plan.

Hillary Clinton has surgery - Secretary of State Hillary Rodham Clinton had
surgery to repair a fractured right elbow. The State Department says she's
expected to make a full recovery.

White House reaches out to gays - The White House said it is working to ensure
the 2010 census produces a better count of same-sex couples, this week's second
policy announcement aimed at dampening rising anger in the gay community toward
President Barack Obama.

Paul is lone dissenter on Iran - Ron Paul, R-Texas, cast the only vote against a
House resolution condemning the Iranian regime's violent crackdown on
pro-democracy demonstrators. "I have admired President Obama's cautious approach
to the situation in Iran and I would have preferred that we in the House had
acted similarly," said Paul.

Ensign approached for money - The husband of Sen. John Ensign's former mistress
made "exorbitant demands for cash and other financial benefits" through an
attorney, an aide to the Nevada Republican said.

LOAD-DATE: June 21, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES:  digest

DOCUMENT-TYPE: BRIEF

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                  Copyright 2009 St. Louis Post-Dispatch, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              86 of 137 DOCUMENTS


                       St. Louis Post-Dispatch (Missouri)

                             July 28, 2009 Tuesday
                                 THIRD EDITION

DIGEST - NATION

BYLINE: From news services

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. A4

LENGTH: 719 words

DATELINE: 0


Jury rules for hospital that deported patient

In a benchmark case dealing with the obligations of hospitals toward uninsured
illegal immigrants, a jury in Stuart, Fla., decided Monday that Martin Memorial
Medical Center acted reasonably when it repatriated a severely brain-injured
Guatemalan patient against the will of his guardian.

The case of Luis Alberto Jimenez is believed to be the first to test the
legality of patient repatriations and to judge the liability of the hospitals
that undertake them. Such repatriations are a relatively rare but widespread
practice, especially in cases where patients need continuing care that is not
covered by Medicaid because of their immigration status.

Feds contributed little to schools in 2007 - Per-pupil spending in public
schools varies widely from state to state, but the federal government
contributes comparatively little to K-12 education, according to a census report
released Monday. The report, based on 2007 figures, shows the country's 15,638
school districts received $556.9 billion in government funding. Of that amount,
only 8.3 percent came from the federal government. The remainder - about $510
billion - came from state and local sources, it said.

2 charged in fatal beating near Phillies' ballpark - Two men have been charged
with murder and a third is being sought in the beating death of a man outside
the Philadelphia Phillies' ballpark during a game.

A confrontation began between two groups Saturday inside a pub attached to
Citizens Bank Park. Both groups were kicked out but the fight resumed outside,
where David Sale, 22, of nearby Lansdale, was beaten and kicked repeatedly in
the head. Charles Bowers, 35, and Jim Grove, 45, have been charged with murder.
A warrant was also issued Monday for Francis Kirchner, 28.

Woman shoots self at gun range, dies - Police say a woman rented a handgun at an
indoor shooting range in Ohio, got some instructions on how to use it and then
fatally shot herself. Police in the Cincinnati suburb of Sharonville say they
believe Ann Fukuyama, 46, of Cincinnati, committed suicide Sunday at Target
World, a public range that sells and rents guns and has a dozen 25-yard target
shooting lanes. She died at a hospital. Witnesses say the woman gave no warning
or indication anything was wrong.

Gates 911 caller not sure of break-in - The 911 caller who reported two men
possibly breaking into the home of black Harvard scholar Henry Louis Gates Jr.
did not describe their race, acknowledged they might just be having a hard time
with the door and said she saw two suitcases on the porch. Cambridge police
released on Monday the 911 recording and radio transmissions. Gates' July 16
arrest on a disorderly conduct charge sparked a national debate about whether
the professor was a victim of racial profiling. Gates, returning from a trip to
China, and his driver forced their way through the door because it was jammed,
and the charge was later dropped.

Neighbors found dead in Minnesota - Two days before Michaela Widmer's body was
found in a cemetery near her mobile home in Minnesota, she sent her fiancé text
messages saying she had gone for a ride with her neighbor who told her he had
won the lottery and would give her half of his winnings, the fiancé said Monday.

Widmer, 22, was discovered stabbed to death at a cemetery on Sunday, a day after
her neighbor, Ricardo Taber, 53, was found dead in his mobile home in St. Peter
in what authorities said Monday was a murder-suicide. The pair disappeared
Friday with Widmer's 4-year-old daughter, who was found that night abandoned but
unharmed at a nearby lake, authorities said.

7 charged with terrorism conspiracy - A father, his two sons and four other men
living in North Carolina are accused of mililtary-style training at home and
plotting "violent jihad" abroad, federal authorities said Monday. Officials said
the men were led by Daniel Patrick Boyd, 39. Court records indicate Boyd was a
veteran of terrorist training camps in Pakistan and Afghanistan who fought
against the Soviet Union.

Judge orders guardian for octuplets' finances - A California judge appointed a
lawyer Monday to oversee the estate of Nadya Suleman's octuplets, saying he
wanted to ensure they weren't exploited by reality television shows, tabloid
photo spreads or other paid ventures.

LOAD-DATE: July 28, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC:  CHILDREN FOUND IN TRASH BIN A rescuer carries one of two children
found in a trash bin Monday in Dayton, Ohio. Police in Dayton say a 2-year-old
girl and 8-month-old boy were found crying inside a large trash bin, about 13
hours after their mother reported them missing. The mother told police her
boyfriend fled with them after a fight. Ron Alvey o Dayton Daily News / The
Associated Press

DOCUMENT-TYPE: BRIEF

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                  Copyright 2009 St. Louis Post-Dispatch, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              87 of 137 DOCUMENTS


                       St. Louis Post-Dispatch (Missouri)

                              July 31, 2009 Friday
                                 THIRD EDITION

Learning process for immigrants Nonprofit here helps newcomers learn the ropes
as entry-level housekeepers in the travel business. CAREERS

BYLINE: STL JOBWATCH > STEVE GIEGERICH sgiegerich@post-dispatch.com >
314-340-8172

SECTION: BUSINESS; Pg. B5

LENGTH: 742 words

DATELINE: 0


Banished from their homeland by a Bhutanese government that scorns the
Lhotshampa minority as illegal immigrants, they came to St. Louis from the
Nepalese camps that have provided them with refuge since the early 1990s.

In Nepal, they'd been teachers or students or, sometimes, both.

In America, they will likely enter the work force as minimum wage housekeepers,
changing the linens and tidying up hotel rooms in establishments catering to the
travel trade across greater St. Louis.

To help them land those jobs, they turned to the International Institute-St.
Louis, a nonprofit that assists newly arrived immigrants with the transition
into our neighborhoods and workplaces.

Training coordinator Rene Kreisel has been teaching the ropes - or sheets, as
the case may be - to students from around the globe since the housekeeping
classes began in February.

A recent afternoon found her detailing the priorities of the American traveler
to six Bhutanese just months removed from the teeming Nepalese camps.

"A lot of people think the worst thing in the world," she explained, "is to
arrive in a hotel room that doesn't have enough toilet paper."

The students in tow, Kreisel marched into the bathroom, an extension of the
oversized cubicle set up to resemble a hotel suite - right down to the bad art
on the wall - in a bank annex in south St. Louis.

Inside the bathroom, Kreisel reviewed some of the items on the checklist, taking
time to explain the differences between shampoo and conditioner, coffee and
decaf and the soap left, respectively, on sink and tub.

Differentiating between shampoo and conditioner is not exactly what Thakur
Chamlagadt had in mind, vocationally speaking, when he envisioned the American
dream from a camp in Nepal.

A 22-year-old former math and science teacher, Chamlagadt - like his classmates
- is in this country legally having been granted asylum as a political refugee.
He has been here a few months, long enough to understand how the system works.

"We have to start at the beginning," Chamlagadt said, resignedly.

Bishnu Pokhrel, a math, science and English teacher in Nepal, vows the beginning
will be just that. "We want to do better job after we experience this country,"
said Pokhrel.

In their desire to move quickly up the ladder, the students have the full
support of the person lifting them on to the bottom rung.

Kreisel, who spent five years teaching English in China, says the economy is
partially responsible for the institute's decision to provide recent immigrants
with a foothold in the hotel industry.

In an environment where displaced workers with college educations are snapping
up entry level jobs, she pointed out, applicants with a limited command of the
English language can use every edge they can get.

"We want the clients to get an idea of what it is like to do housekeeping work,"
said Kreisel. "We want them to understand it's an easy job mentally, but
physically it's not."

Pohkrel, "in her 30s," will attest to that.

"Making beds is difficult," she said. "The mattress is too heavy (but we still)
have to make it fast."

Beyond the physical demands of making a bed, scrubbing a tub and getting into
corners with a commercial-quality upright vacuum, housekeeping is a job that
demands a certain degree of discretion.

"What do you do if you see this hanging from the door?" Kreisel asked, holding a
canary yellow Do Not Disturb sign aloft.

"You go away," a student replied.

"And this?" said Kreiser, displaying a sign reading Please Make Up Room.

"Knock, knock," said the student.

"And what if there is no sign at all?"

Kreiser waited for an answer. None forthcoming, she continued, "You still have
to knock. You don't want to walk in on someone who is dressing or taking a bath
... or ... something."

The instructor ignored the knowing glances between the students.

"Knock, listen," she advised. "And come in slowly so the guest has a chance to
respond."

The students nodded their heads, clearly bored.

As their instructor surmised, the mental part of the job they hope to undertake
will not be a problem.

By the fourth week of class, Pokhrel - lifting a mattress to tuck in a top sheet
- had pretty much mastered the physical demands of housekeeping as well.

For five the students, Thursday was graduation day, an event solemnized with a
certificate and commemorated with fruit and light snacks.

Like all graduates, Pokhrel took a moment to ponder the future.

"If I can get a job other than this," she said. "I would be happy."

LOAD-DATE: July 31, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: COLUMN

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                  Copyright 2009 St. Louis Post-Dispatch, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              88 of 137 DOCUMENTS


                       St. Louis Post-Dispatch (Missouri)

                             August 14, 2009 Friday
                                 THIRD EDITION

Guilty plea in intrusion by Canadian His flight to U.S. in stolen plane caused
an alert before Missouri landing. PUBLIC SAFETY

BYLINE: BY ROBERT PATRICK rpatrick@post-dispatch.com 314-621-5154

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. A2

LENGTH: 389 words

DATELINE: 0


ST. LOUIS - A Canadian student pilot who said he hoped to get shot down when he
crossed the U.S. border in a stolen plane pleaded guilty here Thursday of
federal airplane theft and immigration charges.

Adam Dylan Leon, 31, admitted that on April 6, he used his student key card to
steal a fully fueled, four-seat Cessna 172 from the Thunder Bay, Ontario, flight
school he attended.

Leon told U.S. District Judge Charles Shaw that he suffered from depression but
was not otherwise mentally ill. He acknowledged that he had hoped to be shot
down.

"I've heard of suicide by police," the judge said, "That's a new twist."

Indeed, a U.S. Customs and Border Protection plane and two Wisconsin Air
National Guard F-16 fighters gave chase after Leon flew over Lake Superior and
crossed the U.S. border, but officials have insisted that he was never close to
being fired upon.

Under federal guidelines, Leon could face four years or more in prison at
sentencing later for interstate transportation of a stolen aircraft, importation
of a stolen aircraft and illegal entry into the U.S.

Ignoring radio calls, plane-to-plane hand gestures and warning flares, Leon had
wandered south in a 7 1/2 hour pursuit that triggered the evacuation of the
Wisconsin Capitol in Madison and prompted alerts in a half-dozen Midwestern
cities, including St. Louis.

He passed west of St. Louis at about 14,000 feet, and commercial flights heading
to Lambert-St. Louis International Airport were warned to avoid him.

As the sun and the plane's fuel gauge got low, Leon set down on a rural road
near Ellsinore, Mo., about 120 miles southwest of St. Louis.

That was not a "designated" place for the entry of immigrants, Assistant U.S.
Attorney Dean Sauer noted dryly in court.

Leon stashed the plane under an overpass and caught a ride to a nearby store to
get a drink. That's where the Missouri Highway Patrol caught up with him.

He has passed a psychiatric exam that found him competent to both stand trial
and assist in his own defense.

Leon's public defender, Lucille Liggett, told Shaw that she plans to argue for a
softer sentence because of his unique circumstances.

Documents indicate the stolen plane was worth $40,000 and that it cost the
government roughly $230,000 for the pursuit.

Leon was born in Turkey and changed his name when he became a Canadian citizen
in 2008.

LOAD-DATE: August 14, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                  Copyright 2009 St. Louis Post-Dispatch, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              89 of 137 DOCUMENTS


                       St. Louis Post-Dispatch (Missouri)

                            October 1, 2009 Thursday
                                 THIRD EDITION

Interpreters step up for better health They help immigrants who know little
English communicate better with their doctors.

BYLINE: BY HARRY JACKSON JR. harry.jackson@post-dispatch.com > 314-340-8234

SECTION: HEALTH; Pg. B1

LENGTH: 579 words

DATELINE: 0


Honduran immigrant Carlos Galeano took his 15-month-old son Carlito for a
checkup at the Rodgers Health Center in Kansas City.

But Galeano doesn't speak English and the pediatrician, Dr. Colette Fleming,
doesn't speak Spanish.

Erika Bredée, a specially trained interpreter in St. Louis, arrived via live
Internet video to help them speak the same language.

Bredée watched and listened as the doctor examined the child. The doctor and dad
watched Bredée on their screen.

Before translating Fleming's English words to Galeano's Honduran ear, Bredée
clarified certain words, phrases and instructions with the doctor. Only when she
and the doctor agreed they were clear did she translate instructions to Galeano.

After several exchanges, Carlito was deemed healthy. He protested his
vaccinations and got an appointment for the next visit.

BEING THERE WHILE HERE

The scenario is an expansion of services by the Missouri Telehealth Network. The
Network, since 1994, has linked specialists from large, urban medical centers to
patients and doctors in rural and remote parts of Missouri.

While monitoring the service about a year and a half ago, the sponsors found
that immigrants and refugees increasingly arrived in Missouri unable to speak
English well enough to converse with their doctors.

Clinics were recruiting relatives, friends and even children to translate for
them.

That's risky, said Rachel Mutrux, director of the Telehealth Network. Untrained
interpreters could misunderstand medical words.

Seeking a solution, Telehealth sponsors learned of the Language Access Metro
Project in St. Louis. For more than a decade, LAMP has maintained a pool of
interpreters that has grown to 120 people who offer 35 languages, said Nikki
Lopresti, LAMP director.

LAMP interpreters are trained in medical interpretation, then make house calls
to clinics and hospitals in the St. Louis area.

"They don't only interpret verbatim, they watch for cultural signs," Lopresti
said. "Someone may say she's being punished by the spirits, for some (sort of
misbehavior) and our interpreters are prepared for that.

"They can look at body language, hear cultural differences that the (medical
people) might miss."

Catholic Family Services in St. Louis created the program a decade ago to
interpret medical information for immigrants and refugees in St. Louis, St.
Louis County and parts of St. Charles County, Lopresti said.

So about a year ago, LAMP accepted the invitation to blend with the Telehealth
Network to create the Missouri Telehealth Interpretation Project.

A two-year grant from the Missouri Foundation for Health supports the fledgling
project.

The grant runs out in October of 2010.

SLOW START

The program has taken off slowly. While LAMP serves about 2,200 appointments a
month in the St. Louis area, only 60 people from outside the area have used the
service since May.

Dana Hughes, with the University of Missouri Institute of Public Policy, hopes
that will accelerate as more equipment is installed and more people know about
the program.

About 48 of the state's 114 counties are connected, said Mutrux of Telehealth.
That will expand to 58 by the end of the year, she said.

Meanwhile, the system is a hit in Kansas City.

"We're so happy with this," said Fleming of the Rodgers Health Center. "Access
to interpreters gives us more time with families, more time with disease and
wellness."

Says Bredée, from Mexico and an interpreter for 12 years including a year with
LAMP, "I just enjoy helping people."

LOAD-DATE: October 1, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC:  John L. White  o  jwhite@post-dispatch.com Erika Bredée, a interpreter
with LAMP (Language Access Metro Project), conducts a teleconference in St.
Louis with a doctor and her patients at Samuel U. Rodgers Health Center in
Kansas City.  John L. White   o   jwhite@post-dispatch.com "I just enjoy helping
people," says Erika Bredée, 32, from Mexico. She works as an interpreter with
LAMP (Language Access Metro Project), trying to help immigrants communicate
better with their doctors.

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                  Copyright 2009 St. Louis Post-Dispatch, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              90 of 137 DOCUMENTS


                       St. Louis Post-Dispatch (Missouri)

                            January 24, 2010 Sunday
                                 FOURTH EDITION

Wanted: Investors from afar Area applies for program offering residency to
immigrants who invest, create jobs.

BYLINE: By Tim Logan o tlogan@post-dispatch.com > 314-340-8291 Source: U.S.
Citizenship and Immigration Service

SECTION: BUSINESS; Pg. E1

LENGTH: 591 words

DATELINE: 0


CLAYTON - St. Louis wants to tap more overseas capital by giving more overseas
capitalists the right to live here.

Local economic development officials are applying to the State Department to put
the St. Louis region on a list of places that qualify for a little-used, but
increasingly popular, visa program designed to attract foreign money into the
U.S.

It's called an EB-5, and it's meant for immigrant investors. The program offers
permanent residency status to anyone who puts $1 million into a U.S. business,
or $500,000 in areas with high jobless rates, and creates at least 10 jobs
within two years.

The St. Louis County Economic Council is finalizing an application that would
make St. Louis, St. Louis County and St. Charles County eligible for those sorts
of investments. If approved, the EB-5 will be another tool to help woo cash that
now flows elsewhere, said Economic Council President Denny Coleman.

"This is really a way for us to attract investment and jobs here, with people
from around the globe investing in our own backyard," Coleman said. "It's a way
to help equalize, if you will, the balance of international trade and
investment."

Congress created the EB-5 program in 1990, but it got little use until recent
years. The number of applications for visas nearly from 2007 to 2009, when 1,265
were approved, the State Department reports. While that's a big jump, it remains
well short of the 10,000-per-year cap.

Experts who have studied EB-5 suspect the burst of interest has to do with the
recession.

Tight credit markets have made domestic lending harder to come by, and high
unemployment rates have pushed local economic development groups to think more
creatively about generating jobs, said Muzaffar Chishti, a researcher with the
Migration Policy Institute in Washington.

"They always had the option, they just didn't have the incentive to do it,"
Chishti said.

But lately that's changed. Applications - like the St. Louis area's - to create
regional EB-5 investment centers have poured into the State Department in the
last year or so. The number of approved areas has jumped almost fourfold, and
there are now 80 nationwide.

In the St. Louis area, proponents would like to steer the cash into startups at
plant and life science incubators and into potential uses for the old Chrysler
plant in Fenton. They also see huge opportunity in the region's ongoing talks
with Chinese officials about an air cargo hub at Lambert-St. Louis International
Airport.

"It's a unique opportunity to differentiate our EB-5 program," said Tim Nowak,
executive director of the World Trade Center St. Louis. "It's a chance for
individual Chinese investors to partner with a larger economic development
program that has wide commercial interest here and strong Chinese interest."

In exchange for pumping their own money into U.S. businesses, the immigrants get
permanent residency status after two years, if they meet the job creation
targets.

It may sound a bit like buying their way into the country. But even 10,000 is a
tiny fraction of the visas the U.S. awards to immigrants each year, Chishti
notes, and they go to all sorts of people.

"We take millionaires and Nobel prize winners, and we also take low-wage workers
and people whose only connection to the U.S. is a family member here," he said.
"We take you because of the fire in your belly."

---

By the numbers EB-5 visas approved by U.S. immigration officials have nearly
tripled in the last three years.

Year Approvals 2007 473 2008 640 2009 1,265

Source: U.S. Citizenship and Immigration Service

LOAD-DATE: January 30, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                  Copyright 2010 St. Louis Post-Dispatch, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              91 of 137 DOCUMENTS


                       St. Louis Post-Dispatch (Missouri)

                            February 28, 2010 Sunday
                                 FOURTH EDITION

CONVERSATION about RACE Highlights from readers' comments on the Conversation
About Race blog question last week asking, "When do descendants of immigrants
become Americans?" STLtoday.com/talk

SECTION: COMMUNITY; Pg. B3

LENGTH: 258 words

DATELINE: 0


You VOTED

84% - Of those answering a poll agreed with: "Anyone is an American when they
are born on U.S. soil."

16% - Agreed with: It takes two or three generations for them to become true
Americans.

YOU COMMENTED

- As it pertains to LEGAL CITIZENS, they become Americans when they stop
referring to themselves as something other than American.

(Amazedbythelunacy)

- Philosophically, it is up to the individual as to when they want to stop
pretending they are foreigners in an unfamiliar place and start thinking of
America as their home and mother country. When they bother to learn the language
of their new home, when they engage in social and political activities for the
good of all Americans and not just their specific race or nationality. When they
decide that the customs and societal norms of their old nation take a back seat
to the customs and societal norms of their new home. And most important of all,
they are Americans when they SAY they are Americans (not Mexican-American, not
Russian-American, not Asian-American (although this one is odd as Asia is a
continent and not a nation). I myself am a
Scottish-Irish-French-English-German-Native-American ... But I usually shorten
that to simply "American."

(the Bard)

- Immigrants become Americans when they become citizens. Their descendants
become Americans at birth, if they were born in the U.S. (or to U.S. citizens
overseas).

There is nothing wrong with celebrating one's heritage. However, people who are
here illegally are "illegal residents"; they are not "illegal immigrants."

(cecily)

LOAD-DATE: February 28, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                  Copyright 2010 St. Louis Post-Dispatch, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              92 of 137 DOCUMENTS


                       St. Louis Post-Dispatch (Missouri)

                            March 18, 2010 Thursday
                                 THIRD EDITION

Local leaders deride census methods

BYLINE: BY TIM TOWNSEND o ttownsend@post-dispatch.com > 314-340-8221 The
Associated Press contributed to this report.

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. A1

LENGTH: 994 words

DATELINE: 0


'Cookie-cutter' approach o Counting homeless, disabled, immigrants requires
different strategy, advocates argue.

Need for outreach o Census Bureau taps churches to encourage congregations to
fill out their forms.

Days after U.S. Census forms began hitting mailboxes, local religious and
government leaders are sounding alarms that St. Louisans will be undercounted
thanks to wasteful efforts and poor planning.

The criticism came at a roundtable hosted by the Urban League of Metropolitan
St. Louis, part of the federal government's push to encourage community leaders
to promote the decennial head count and get residents to return census forms.

At Wednesday's roundtable, Josh Wiese, an aide to St. Louis Mayor Francis Slay,
complained that the census was using "a cookie-cutter" approach to counting that
wouldn't work in "high-crime, low-education" areas the same way it works in the
suburbs.

"If this isn't done right, we'll certainly hold the Census Bureau accountable,"
Wiese told Cedric Grant, director of the U.S. Commerce Department's Faith Based
and Neighborhood Partnerships program, representing the Census Bureau's parent
agency.

Evan Armstrong, of the St. Louis-based International Institute, said he was
frustrated that U.S. citizens are given preference for census field work, even
if they don't speak the language of the refugee or immigrant groups they will be
counting.

Both Wiese and St. Louis County planning manager Lori Fiegel brought up the
challenges of counting the city's large Bosnian population. Fiegel said her
office had been promised a Bosnian liaison, which never materialized. When a
census official said the liaison had, indeed, been provided, Fiegel said no one
had told her office about it.

"The Bosnian community is afraid of the government, afraid of the government,
afraid of the government," Wiese said. "Then, on April 1, they're supposed to
trust the government before going back to being afraid of the government again
the next day."

William Siedhoff, director of the St. Louis Department of Human Services, said
the city's own annual census of its homeless population, completed in January,
would have to be repeated by census workers because the bureau didn't respond to
the city's suggestion to partner on the January effort.

David Newburger, from the city's office on the disabled, said data provided by
the bureau to help reach the city's disabled citizens were not specific enough
and should include street names. Grant said privacy issues prevented that
specificity.

The contentious atmosphere at the roundtable "was based on past experience and
the anticipation that undercounts are going to happen again," Siedhoff said
after the meeting.

Dennis Johnson, the bureau's regional director, defended the census in an
interview, saying the effort could not succeed without community partners.

"Someone looking for the federal government to provide all the tools is not
going to reach every corner of the community," Johnson said. "But working
through partners who already have outreach systems is one of the most effective
communications vehicles the census has."

Local complaints mirror national ones. Last year, a string of independent
reports from the Government Accountability Office and others found mismanagement
and troubling computer failures at the Census Bureau.

The St. Louis area has had a troubled relationship with the census. Since 2003,
Slay has successfully challenged annual estimates from the U.S. Census Bureau
that portray the city as losing population. The census's annual estimates are
less accurate than its constitutionally mandated decennial efforts.

On Monday, Slay said the failure of one individual to submit a 2010 census form
would be equal to $1,300 in lost federal aid each year. That means an undercount
of 1,000 people would mean the loss of as much as $13 million between today and
the 2020 Census.

About $400 billion in government funding is allocated each year to states,
counties and cities based on population. The money goes to about 140 programs,
including school lunches, senior citizen services and highway construction.

The census results determine the number of congressional seats received by each
state, and population numbers are used to draw boundaries for state legislative
districts and city wards.

U.S. Rep. William Lacy Clay, D-St. Louis, is chairman of the House subcommittee
that oversees the census. He has said Missouri is among slow-growth states "on
the cusp" of losing a congressional seat.

The 2010 forms have been streamlined compared with previous years and include
only 10 questions. In early April, census workers will begin visiting homes that
have not yet returned a form.

Ministers, especially among African-Americans, are seen as trustworthy sources
of information, and the Census Bureau is relying on that relationship to get its
message out.

Fourth Ward Alderman Samuel Moore, an elder in the Church of God in Christ
denomination who is paying for his own efforts to promote the census, took issue
with the bureau's broad effort to engage religious communities in its outreach.

"I have 110 churches in my ward ... and many of them are not taking part in
this," Moore told Grant. "And even those that are, are preaching within the four
walls of the church. If we're depending on the church to bring people to the
census, it's not going to happen."

But the Rev. Charles Brown, pastor of Mount Airy Missionary Baptist Church in
St. Louis, said he knew of 150 Baptist pastors in the St. Louis area who had
agreed to promote the census and encourage their flocks to fill out the form.

"We're doing our part," Brown said.

Grant said after the roundtable that he understood the frustrations but pointed
to the passion of the participants as evidence that the ultimate goal of the
census will be met. "This is not a perfect product," Grant said. "But the word
is getting out, and you can see by the discussion around this table today that
there's an urgency to what we're doing."

LOAD-DATE: March 19, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC:  Photos by Emily Rasinski  o erasinski@post-dispatch.com  Harold
Crumpton, National NAACP board member, asks a question during a roundtable
Wednesday, part of the federal government's push to encourage community leaders
to promote the U.S. census.  The sign outside LaSalle Baptist Church at the
corner of Park Avenue and Tucker Boulevard in downtown St. Louis encourages
participation in the U.S. census. Mayor Francis Slay said Monday that the
failure of one individual to submit a form would be equal to $1,300 in lost
federal aid each year.  Cedric Grant (center), of the Department of Commerce,
talks Wednesday with Florence Toma, of the Ark of Safety Center, and Craig Best,
assistant regional census manager.

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                  Copyright 2010 St. Louis Post-Dispatch, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              93 of 137 DOCUMENTS


                       St. Louis Post-Dispatch (Missouri)

                             March 29, 2010 Monday
                                 THIRD EDITION

St. Louis needs to embrace immigration CAN ST. LOUIS COMPETE? o FINDING A NICHE

BYLINE: DAVID NICKLAUS dnicklaus@post-dispatch.com > 314-340-8213

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. A1

LENGTH: 876 words

DATELINE: 0


Harish Sundaram grew up in Bangalore, which is India's version of Silicon
Valley, but he founded his technology company in St. Louis.

He came here for a master's degree and a job, and stayed because he liked it
here. His 14-year-old Internet services company, OnlyLink, has built an
impressive list of customers that ranges from small local firms to giant
companies like Microsoft.

Sundaram's story would be a common one in places like Austin or Chicago or the
Research Triangle of North Carolina. In St. Louis, it's all too rare.

For one thing, St. Louisans aren't very entrepreneurial. We consistently rank
low on measures of business startup activity.

For another, immigrants are rare here. Just 4 percent of the metro area's
residents are foreign-born, well below the national average of 12.5 percent.

The two shortfalls, in immigration and in entrepreneurial spirit, are related.
Various studies show that immigrants are far more likely to start businesses
than are native-born Americans. Up to half of the technology firms in Silicon
Valley, including Google and Yahoo, were founded or co-founded by immigrants.

If St. Louis wants to have a more vibrant economy, then, one item on our to-do
list is obvious: We must find a way to attract more immigrants.

"There are so many things we need to do to be growing our economy, and this is
one of the easy ones," says Richard Herman, a Cleveland attorney and author of
"Immigrant Inc.: Why Immigrant Entrepreneurs are driving the American Economy."

Immigration rules are set at the national level, of course, by Congress and the
Department of Homeland Security. But Rust Belt cities like Cleveland and St.
Louis need to realize that they have a huge stake in the debate.

"Cities like ours need to have a voice at the national level and say that
attracting immigrants to our towns needs to be a priority," Herman says.

Meanwhile, there are things that can be done at the local level to create a more
immigrant-friendly climate. The St. Louis County Economic Council already has
taken one concrete step: It has applied to make the region eligible for
investments under the EB-5 visa program, which grants permanent residency to
entrepreneurs who invest at least $500,000 in an economically distressed area.

St. Louis also needs to get the word out that it welcomes new residents. We
could learn from places like Detroit, which launched a study last year to learn
how immigrants could turn around its struggling economy, or Halifax, Nova
Scotia, which launched a marketing campaign aimed at attracting 2,800 immigrants
a year.

We also must avoid shooting ourselves in the foot. Measures that are perceived
as anti-immigrant - such as last year's vote that made English the "official
language" of Missouri, or the immigration ordinance that Valley Park passed in
2006 - leave the impression that the region is less than welcoming to outsiders.
The Valley Park ordinance, which attempted to punish landlords and employers for
renting to or hiring undocumented immigrants, made national headlines.

Clearly, St. Louis has some assets it can leverage. The International Institute,
which provides a variety of services to immigrants, sponsored 6,000 Bosnian
refugees in the 1990s. They spread the word to friends and relatives, and now an
estimated 70,000 Bosnians call St. Louis home.

They have bought homes and started businesses. They stabilized a broad swath of
the city and have begun to move to the suburbs. In short, they've done what
waves of German, Irish and Italian immigrants did before them.

But for at least 60 years, from the 1920s to the 1980s, St. Louis had no
noticeable influx of foreign-born residents. It's no coincidence that the city
lost population and, during the latter half of that period, the region's economy
stagnated.

"We have to convince people that there is the potential here for business
development," says Anna Crosslin, the International Institute's president. "Far
too few immigrants around the country have St. Louis on their radar screens."

If we're looking for success stories to publicize, Sundaram would be a good
place to start. He moved here in 1988 and, after getting a master's degree from
the University of Missouri-St. Louis, he joined KPMG as a management consultant.

When the firm closed its St. Louis office, he struck out on his own, but not
before encountering a typical St. Louis naysayer: "The bank manager said, 'You
are crazy to start a business. Only a fool will wager a paycheck.'"

Sundaram's consulting firm evolved into OnlyLink, which now has 14 employees. It
prides itself on providing "all you can eat" technology, which includes hosting
a client's website, managing e-mail, troubleshooting PC problems and providing
data security.

It's a business that has no particular reason for being in St. Louis, except
that its founder happened to be here.

"I have been asked many times by my friends and mentors, 'Why don't you move to
California?'" Sundaram says. "It would be more friendly to technology companies
in some ways, but you also face more competition. It was almost like destiny. I
was here and I decided to stay here. And this is a fantastic place to raise a
family."

Most St. Louisans already know that. Somehow, we have to spread the word to the
rest of the world.

LOAD-DATE: March 30, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC:  Christian Gooden o cgooden@post-dispatch.com Harish Sundaram, chief
executive officer of OnlyLink, an information security services company, in his
data center in downtown St. Louis. Sundaram is an immigrant from India who
started his company in 1996 and employs 14 people.

DOCUMENT-TYPE: COLUMN

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                  Copyright 2010 St. Louis Post-Dispatch, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              94 of 137 DOCUMENTS


                       St. Louis Post-Dispatch (Missouri)

                              April 4, 2010 Sunday
                                 FOURTH EDITION

LETTERS

SECTION: EDITORIAL; Pg. A21

LENGTH: 1203 words

DATELINE: 0


Young Americans lack the attributes that contribute to growth

As part of the series "Can St. Louis Compete?" (March 28030), David Nicklaus
cites insufficient numbers of immigrants as one of the reasons our local economy
is stagnant. An area businessman is highlighted as an example of immigrants who
are moving business American forward because of their entrepreneurial spirit
("St. Louis needs to embrace immigration," March 29).

While the author's column space was limited, a more in-depth analysis of the
problem would uncover the real problem: today's native-born youth do not have an
American Dream. Why?

The Atlantic magazine's "How a New Jobless Era Will Transform America" (March
2010) cites the attitudes and behaviors, particularly in Generation Y, as
factors. They're characterized as child-centric: rewriting self-serving rules,
irreverent of traditions and institutions, putting friends before work and
education.

The book "The Trophy Kids Grow Up" by Ron Alsop claims this entitlement
mentality, a highly structured childhood, inadequate leadership skills and an
inability to problem solve results in a lack of independence and
entrepreneurialism. The attributes contributing to business growth -
perseverance, adaptability, humility, belief that hard work precedes reward -
are lacking among America's youth.

Most immigrants come to this country with a dream. They still see the United
States as a country of opportunity. But our youth here by birth are more
fatalistic about their future. They have no dream.

Joseph M. Gravish - Wildwood

Right-to-work

The series "Can St. Louis Compete?" (March 28-30) did not include any mention of
the fact that Missouri is a forced-union state, even though the first part,
"Work force worries" (March 28) told the specific story of a firm that chose to
locate in North Carolina, a right-to-work state, over St. Louis. Why was this
crucial fact omitted?

Edward Nowak - Belleville

Labor base

David Nicklaus' "Affordable and livable could be the next 'cool'" (March 30)
belonged in the business section or as an oped to Stephen Schoemehl's
"Languishing labor" (March 30) commentary. Affordable and livable is nice, but a
strong labor union helps keep St. Louis affordable and livable. Apprenticeship
programs and union journeymen help keep the quality of life high here.

After the recession was in full swing, managers complained about trying to make
a living flipping hamburgers, and the firms for which they flipped the
hamburgers tried to reclassify that task as manufacturing to mask that many
manufacturing jobs went overseas.

Joseph J. Kuciejczyk Jr. - St. Louis

Grow up

Regarding "E-mauled by activist, legislators strike back" (April 1): Missouri
legislators play e-mail pranks on constituents? Elected representatives make
harassing, late-night telephone calls to a citizen who expressed her opinion
about pending legislation? They consider changing their vote on a proposed bill
out of spite?

Is this House of Representatives of the great state of Missouri? We were more
serious and issues oriented 45 years ago in my junior high school class
elections.

Fellas, when will you grow up?

Andy Ayers - St. Louis

Bickering

Regarding "E-mauled by activist, legislators strike back" (April 1): Children,
what's all the bickering about? Nobody is eating horse meat and everybody hates
puppy mills, dog fighting and filthy, unsanitary living conditions for chickens,
pigs, rabbits and people, right? Right?

Mike Bizelli - Overland

Retaliatory calls

Regarding "E-mauled by activist, legislators strike back" (April 1) So,
legislators don't like having in-boxes full of unwanted e-mails. Well I'm not
too thrilled about having my dinner hour (or any other hour) interrupted by
recorded political calls from those same (or other) politicians.

The legislators retaliated by calling Brenda Shoss. Are they giving me
permission to bombard their offices with retaliatory calls after their robocalls
reach me?

Mary Ann Rutkowski - St. Louis County

Hike the cigarette tax

Like many states, Missouri finds itself with a revenue shortfall and faces
cutting government services. The Legislature need look at only one source to
bring in much-needed revenue: cigarette taxes.

At 17 cents per pack, Missouri has the second-lowest cigarette tax in the
nation. Of the eight surrounding states, three exceed $1 per pack: Iowa at
$1.36, Oklahoma at $1.03 and Arkansas at $1.15. Illinois' tax is 98 cents per
pack. Kansas takes in 79 cents per pack.

State senators and representatives should be told to resist the tobacco lobby
and help balance the state budget by raising the cigarette tax to 90 cents per
pack.

Brian E. Hoover - Independence, Mo.

Tough questions

Regarding "Fallen officer is laid to rest" (March 31): The death of a police
officer, an Iraq veteran and family man, is a terrible tragedy. But the facts of
this horrific accident raise many questions.

First, why was there a dangerous high-speed chase over property valued at less
than $500? Second, why was the individual who was driving the car that hit the
officer's car not charged for not yielding to a police car? Third, is the chased
burglary suspect being overcharged (with second-degree murder) for an accident
he never intended to commit?

These are complicated questions that we, as a community, must consider with the
help of an attentive and investigative media. We understand the need for police
authority and the need to be sensitive to this terrible loss, but we still must
ask some hard questions relating to property crime in St. Louis, police prudence
and prosecutorial discretion.

Kelly-Kate Pease - St. Louis

Flawed policy

It is very sad that St. Louis Metropolitan Police Department officer David
Haynes died in a traffic accident, but it was not the fault of the burglary
suspect he was pursuing. It was the result of a terribly flawed police
department policy that encourages this kind of action by police officers.

Although nobly intended, chasing a subject in mid-morning on a busy city
thoroughfare endangered both the officer's life and that of the public. We are
too familiar with the often-tragic results of such pursuits.

Until the policy is changed, another death of a police officer or a bystander is
inevitable.

Patti Teper - St. Louis

Put off until tomorrow

I was disappointed to be called a procrastinator in "Procrastinators will get
another census form," March 31). I have the form that I received from the Census
Bureau. It reads "The Census must count every person living in the United States
on April 1, 2010."

How could I know on March 31 that I would be living on April 1? In the March 31
paper, I counted 28 funeral notices. How will those people be counted if they
filled out their Census forms on March 25?

Put off until tomorrow what should not be done today.

Edward Thomas - St. Louis

Just like Italy

The Postal Service may cut deliveries to five days a week ("Saturday mail could
vanish early next year," March 30). With all the national holidays thrown in,
we'll have four-day delivery half the time.

Good luck to anyone who still uses snail mail for making payments. The number of
late fees will skyrocket.

We really are becoming more like Europe. Our mail service soon will compare to
Italy's!

Nancy Touchette - Creve Coeur

LOAD-DATE: April 4, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: LETTER

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                  Copyright 2010 St. Louis Post-Dispatch, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              95 of 137 DOCUMENTS


                       St. Louis Post-Dispatch (Missouri)

                             April 12, 2010 Monday
                                 THIRD EDITION

Driving us crazy Our view o License restrictions try to solve a non-existent
problem. OPINION

SECTION: EDITORIAL; Pg. A15

LENGTH: 574 words

DATELINE: 0


It's good to know that with all the other problems facing Missouri, two state
representatives from St. Charles County are wasting public resources pushing
bills to solve a problem that doesn't exist.

Each has zeroed in on the "menace" of legal immigrants driving on Missouri roads
and highways. Undocumented immigrants already are prohibited from getting
drivers licences. But Republican Reps. Chuck Gatschenberger of Lake Saint Louis
and Cynthia Davis of O'Fallon think that doesn't ensure that every driver can
read road signs and obey the law. Safety first, you know.

Mr. Gatschenberger's House Bill 2143 would require applicants to prove U.S.
citizenship before obtaining a Missouri drivers license. He's also sponsoring
H.B. 2139 and H.B. 2144, which would require license examinations to be
administered only in English and bar the use of an interpreter. Ms. Davis is
sponsoring H.B. 1231, which carries similar English-only restrictions.

What kind of scofflaws might be caught in such a law-and-order dragnet?

Perhaps world-class athletes who ply their trades with the St. Louis Cardinals
and St. Louis Blues or an elite foreign-born student studying medicine or the
sciences at an area university. Maybe a highly skilled surgeon or high-tech
engineer with a start-up company.

Under the Gatchsenberger proposal, some of our region's most talented people
would have to take public transit or catch a ride with a citizen-driver.

International companies like Monsanto, Emerson and Anheuser-Busch InBev that
employ workers on H1-B visas would face a new obstacle in recruiting the best
minds to Missouri. And if area civic and business leaders succeed in
establishing a trade hub with China around Lambert Airport, what awaits the
Chinese contingent that would settle here?

Absurdity alone is no guarantee that bad legislation won't pass. So consider
some facts and context:

- Requiring citizenship to be able drive would face legal challenges for which
no precedent is readily known. It's probably legal to limit drivers license
exams to English only - several states already do it, and Missouri offers exams
for commercial licenses only in English. But the ability to speak English is no
guarantee of the ability to drive a car safely.

- Of the 349,286 drivers licenses issued in 2009, only 2.8 percent (9,962) were
given after the tests were taken in a foreign language, mostly Spanish or
Chinese. Missouri's projected immigrant population, while growing, was only
208,000 - 3.5 percent of the state population - in 2007.

- St. Louis long has been a major refugee resettlement area. Congress has
authorized people fleeing war and strife in countries such as Bosnia, Vietnam,
Somalia and Iraq to live and work in the United States. In fact, new arrivals
must find a job in 90 days, which often requires getting a drivers license.

About one-tenth of the population of the city of St. Louis, now estimated at
350,000 people, arrived as refugees. They are the biggest growth segment of
people moving to the city, according to Anna Crosslin, president and CEO of the
International Institute of Metropolitan St. Louis.

- A recent Post-Dispatch series on our future work force reported that the
skills and entrepreneurial spirit of immigrants are critical to a growing
economy.

Missouri needs to vanquish its image as hostile to newcomers and outsiders.
Spiking these proposed pointless restrictions on legal immigrant drivers would
be a good place to start.

LOAD-DATE: April 13, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: EDITORIAL

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                  Copyright 2010 St. Louis Post-Dispatch, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              96 of 137 DOCUMENTS


                       St. Louis Post-Dispatch (Missouri)

                              May 4, 2010 Tuesday
                                 THIRD EDITION

Today's hot topic hits sports But as with other issues, athletes cannot be
forced to speak out on immigration.

BYLINE: Bryan Burwell bburwell@post-dispatch.com

SECTION: SPORTS; Pg. B1

LENGTH: 1061 words

DATELINE: 0


So here's another reminder of how much our world has changed. In the past, the
battleground for the continuing and extremely uncomfortable conversation on race
in sports has always been waged in indelible shades of black and white.

Today, we are witness to a paradigm shift on the subject, not to mention a quite
noticeable alteration in the tone of it, too. The issues are no longer
restricted to black and white. Now they are also in shades of brown. As the
state of Arizona's new immigration law moves closer to taking affect, Latin and
Hispanic sportsmen are finding themselves thrust into the same circumstances
that black athletes have dealt with for decades.

The world is looking for someone to take a stand, and it doesn't really matter
whether or not these star athletes are actually ready, willing or able to assume
the demanding role of voice of their people. Here we are once again in the
middle of that volatile mixture of race, politics and societal issues, and it's
sure to lead us into one agitating mess. There are no simple questions or easy
answers, and I can tell you this: There will be a lot of angry people on both
sides of this conversation.

Immigration is the new hot-button word in America that inflames and enrages.
Whoever steps to the forefront of this fight is certain to be greeted by plenty
of angry words, and no short supply of ignorant ones. But it is a conversation
that America needs to hear, and not always from the shrill voice of political
demagogues with conveniently short memories about America's rich immigrant
history.

So that means we're about to replace the likes of Jackie Robinson, Tommie Smith
and Jim Brown with unfamiliar voices of social change: welcome to the
battleground of Ozzie Guillen, Jose Sulaiman and Cesar Izturis.

It should be no coincidence that now that the Hispanic and Latino population in
our country is growing, the racial conversation would move increasingly toward
issues that put them in the epicenter of America's biggest and most combustible
societal issues like immigration. We're already seeing strong voices of
opposition to Arizona's new law, which empowers police to randomly determine a
person's immigration status, and according to the law's critics, gives them
sweeping power to racial profile.

Guillen, the manager of the Chicago White Sox and a native of Venezuela, says
with the 2011 All-Star Game slated at Arizona, he won't attend.

"I wouldn't do it," Guillen said Friday. "As a Latin American, it's natural that
I have to support our own. ... I plead sportsmen to join on this."

"It's a bad thing," said Baltimore shortstop Izturis, born in Venezuela. "Now
they're going to go after everybody, not just the people behind the wall. Now
they're going to come out on the street. What if you're walking on the street
with your family and kids? They're going to go after you."

This is a fight that has dropped on baseball's doorstep. More than one-quarter
of big leaguers on opening-day rosters were born outside the 50 states, most of
them of Latin or Hispanic descent.

If that wasn't enough of a reason sports figures have been drawn into this
conversation, there is this: Arizona is home to all four major league team
sports, hosts spring training, is a major stop on the PGA Tour, professional
tennis, auto racing and major events in college football and basketball. That
means that the world of sports will be greatly impacted by the state's unpopular
political football.

The baseball players' union issued a statement condemning the law, and it won't
be long before Commissioner Bud Selig will have to consider pulling the 2011
All-Star Game out of Phoenix. Sulaiman, president of the Mexico-based World
Boxing Council, has already said his organization will not schedule Mexican
fighters for bouts in Arizona to protest what it called the state's "shameful,
inhuman and discriminatory" immigration law.

"Great figures of boxing have fought in Arizona, boxers such as Julio Cesar
Chavez, Salvador Sanchez, Konstantin Tszyu, 'Coloradito' Lopez and many, many
others," said Sulaiman, who is based in Mexico City. "The WBC will not allow
that in boxing, athletes are exposed to suffer that degrading act, humiliating
and inhumane, as racial discrimination is."

Every step of the way, there's plenty of evidence of how sports has played a
significant role in reshaping America's social conscience. Think about where
America was in 1968 when Smith and John Carlos raised their gloved fists. Think
about where we were when Robinson broke the color barrier in 1947, and where we
were when Muhammad Ali protested the Vietnam war, when Brown was battling civil
rights issues, when Arthur Ashe was drawing attention to apartheid in South
Africa and John Thompson protested the NCAA's archaic academic and admissions
policies.

In previous decades when the conversation was all about black and white, we
witnessed an amazing generation of socially conscious athletes and coaches who
were ready to engage quite passionately and intelligently in the national
conversation on race. But those bold men gave way to another generation of black
athletes who didn't share the same passion for the fight, or were simply
ill-equipped for the job. Michael Jordan wasn't all that interested in the
conversation, and that was his business, and neither was Tiger Woods. And no
amount of scolding words from Brown or anyone else made it necessary for Woods
or Jordan to join the battle.

What we've already learned is that it doesn't matter how big your name is, if
you're not up to the demands of engaging the world in such an uncomfortable, but
often necessary conversation, no one should force you into it.

No matter where you come down on the immigration debate in this country, clearly
you can understand why many Latin athletes have taken up this fight. Good for
them. There's nothing like a little social consciousness to expand an athlete's
profile. But if there's one thing that history has already shown us, it's that
we don't have to hear from everyone.

We only need to hear from the ones who have something valuable to say.

Ozzie Guillen "As a Latin American, it's natural that I have to support our own
..."

Jose Sulaiman "The WBC will not allow that in boxing, athletes are exposed to
suffer that degrading act ..."

Cesar Izturis "Now they're going to go after everybody, not just the people
behind the wall ..."

LOAD-DATE: May 4, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC:  Photos - Guillen, Sulaiman, Izturis

DOCUMENT-TYPE: COLUMN

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                  Copyright 2010 St. Louis Post-Dispatch, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              97 of 137 DOCUMENTS


                       St. Louis Post-Dispatch (Missouri)

                              May 16, 2010 Sunday
                                 FIRST EDITION

UMKC professor helped write Arizona law Lawmakers from around the country have
been seeking his advice, and he is involved in nine immigration lawsuits.

BYLINE: By Anna Gorman o Los Angeles Times

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. A4

LENGTH: 1303 words

DATELINE: 0


KANSAS CITY - Hundreds of miles from Arizona, law professor Kris Kobach leaned
back in his chair at the University of Missouri at Kansas City, took a sip of
coffee out of a Justice Department mug and calmly defended the controversial
immigration law he helped write.

At 9 a.m. this Tuesday, he is on hold with a radio station in Tucson and in an
interview with another in St. Louis. He has three more lined up.

Since Gov. Jan Brewer signed the law last month, Arizona has become ground zero
in the debate over illegal immigration. Senate Bill 1070, which has prompted
protests, boycotts and lawsuits, makes it a crime to lack immigration papers and
requires police to determine whether people they stop are in the country
illegally. President Barack Obama called it misguided and warned that it could
lead to racial profiling.

Kobach said the law actually discourages racial profiling and only kicks in when
someone violates another law.

"If they are running down the street with a pistol in one hand and a bag of
money in the other and someone screaming, 'Bring back my money,' then the police
officer can stop them," he said. "But just walking down the street, of course
not."

In the last few weeks, Kobach has been contacted by legislators from around the
country seeking his advice and has been interviewed on local and national radio
and television programs more than 50 times. A national survey released Wednesday
by the Pew Research Center for the People & the Press found that 59 percent of
adults polled supported the law.

Kobach, 44, is an Ivy League-educated, outspoken advocate for the movement to
fight illegal immigration and the go-to guy for cities and states looking to
pass laws against it. He is counsel on nine ongoing cases around the country
targeting sanctuary cities and in-state tuition for illegal immigrants and
defending the right of cities to prohibit landlords from renting to illegal
immigrants and employers from hiring them.

Kobach said he is motivated by a desire to "restore the rule of law" in
immigration and to show that states and cities can do their part to help the
federal government with enforcement.

His opponents say that the laws Kobach writes and defends promote
discrimination.

"At the end of the day, his involvement has been costly and the laws that he has
supported have been divisive," said Omar Jadwat, an attorney with the American
Civil Liberties Union who has appeared opposite Kobach in courts in
Pennsylvania, Texas and Missouri. "They distract and divert the resources of
these towns and cities into hugely controversial and expensive sideshows that
benefit only him."

Just before 7 p.m. on a recent weeknight, Kobach pulled up to the Community
Center in Lansing, Kan., in a GMC Sierra with the license plate "1787," the year
the U.S. Constitution was created. Inside, the recent college graduate running
Kobach's campaign for Kansas secretary of state handed out stickers and lawn
signs.

Kobach stood in front of an American flag and told a crowd gathered for the
Republican town hall meeting that Arizona had long been under siege by
kidnappers, drug dealers and human smugglers from other countries and that
something had to be done. When he described the gunbattle that resulted in the
recent shooting of a sheriff's deputy, the audience gasped. When he talked about
the state's efforts to make life miserable for illegal immigrants so they will
return to their native countries, they applauded.

"It's not rocket science," he said. "You ratchet up the level of enforcement so
people leave on their own."

After the speech, several people lined up to shake Kobach's hand. Among them was
Dennis Bixby, whose 19-year-old daughter was killed in 2007 after an illegal
immigrant without a drivers license ran a stop sign.

"He gets it," Bixby said of Kobach. "He's willing to fight the fight."

Leavenworth County Republican Party Chairman John Bradford said that if Kobach
is speaking, people show up. "People love him," he said. "Finally there is
somebody stepping up and doing something about (illegal immigration)."

Kobach said that adding "rhetorical flourishes" on TV is entertaining, but in
court he sticks to the legal arguments.

"It's about threading the legal needle and making sure that it all stands up in
court," he said.

Judges often have the final say on the constitutionality of restrictive
immigration laws. In California, the federal courts struck down Proposition 187,
which sought to deny public education and benefits to illegal immigrants, as an
attempt to usurp federal responsibility.

In Kobach's cases, the decisions have been mixed. He lost cases in Texas and
Pennsylvania, where cities sought to prohibit landlords from renting to illegal
immigrants. Kobach appealed and both cases are pending. He won a case in
California, where he argued that the state could not offer discounted tuition to
illegal immigrants while not offering the same to students from outside
California. That case is pending in the state Supreme Court.

In Arizona, Kobach helped state Sen. Russell Pearce draft a 2007 bill that
required all businesses to use an electronic employment verification system.
Kobach said Pearce asked him to help write the new immigration law.

Kobach defended the employer law and said he is confident that the current law
will sustain legal challenges too. "It was drafted to withstand every legal
argument that can be thrown at it," he said. "It's built like a tank."

Raised in Kansas, Kobach attended Harvard College and Yale Law School and earned
a doctorate from Oxford University. In 2001, just before Sept. 11, he began
working under Attorney General John Ashcroft, an experience that he said made
him keenly interested in immigration and the crucial link between immigration
policy and national security. Before the attacks, several of the hijackers had
been stopped by local police for traffic violations. "We had a missed
opportunity of tragic dimensions," he said. Kobach helped create a registration
program designed to catch potential terrorists from Middle Eastern countries.

Hamid Khan, executive director of the South Asian Network in Artesia, said the
registration policy created a lot of fear and resulted in the deportation of
many people without terrorist links. "It became a clear reminder of how
communities are criminalized and how race and racial identity are how people get
identified," he said.

Kobach began teaching at UMKC in 1996 and now teaches several classes, including
constitutional law and immigration law. His office is decorated with framed
photographs of his family and of himself with President George W. Bush, along
with stacks of legal textbooks and court documents and a talking George
Washington doll.

Jennifer Kerr, a student in his immigration class who agrees with her
professor's beliefs, said Kobach encouraged students to engage in "spirited
debate" about the issue.

"People in the class had different opinions," she said. "They were all over the
spectrum. Some vehemently opposed him."

The professor in the office next door, Douglas Linder, disagrees with Kobach on
almost everything - from the interpretation of the Constitution to immigration
policy. Linder said he believes the Arizona law violates the Constitution, will
result in racial profiling and threatens the relationship between local police
officers and community members.

"In all the debates we've had, I'm not sure I've ever been successful convincing
him he's wrong about anything," Linder said. "He has very strong opinions."

Kobach's wife, Heather, said she agrees with her husband's politics but that his
immigration work has taken a toll on her. When opponents call him racist, she
gets offended and feels like a "nervous wreck."

"I think of him as a soldier," she said. "He gets attacked all the time. He
continues to do it because he believes it."

LOAD-DATE: May 16, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC:  Ed Zurga o Associated Press  Ed Zurga o Associated Press Kris Kobach,
a law professor at the University of Missouri at Kansas City, advised Arizona
officials on their new immigration law. Kobach is running for the Republican
nomination for Kansas secretary of state.

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                  Copyright 2010 St. Louis Post-Dispatch, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              98 of 137 DOCUMENTS


                       St. Louis Post-Dispatch (Missouri)

                             June 10, 2010 Thursday
                                 THIRD EDITION

Mexican, U.S. agents square off Border Patrol's killing of teen in Mexico adds
to immigration fury.

BYLINE: BY CHRISTOPHER SHERMAN AND OLIVIA TORRES Associated Press

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. A1

LENGTH: 781 words

DATELINE: 0


CIUDAD JUAREZ, Mexico - Pointing their rifles, Mexican security forces chased
away U.S. authorities investigating the shooting of a 15-year-old Mexican by a
U.S. Border Patrol agent on the banks of the Rio Grande, the FBI and witnesses
told The Associated Press on Wednesday.

The killing of the Mexican by U.S. authorities - the second in less than two
weeks - has exposed the distrust between the two countries that lies just below
the surface and has enraged Mexicans who see the death of the boy on Mexican
soil as an act of murder.

Mexico's government says the number of Mexicans injured by U.S. immigration
authorities has increased this year.

Shortly after the boy was shot, Mexican soldiers arrived at the scene and
pointed their guns at the Border Patrol agents across the riverbank while
bystanders screamed insults and hurled rocks and firecrackers, FBI spokeswoman
Andrea Simmons said. She said the agents were forced to withdraw.

"It pretty quickly got very intense over on the Mexican side," she said, adding
that FBI agents showed up later and resumed the investigation, even as Mexican
authorities pointed guns at them from across the river.

A relative of the dead boy who had been playing with him told the AP that the
Mexicans - whom he described as federal police, not soldiers - pointed their
guns only when the Americans waded into the mud in an apparent attempt to cross
into Mexico.

The Mexican authorities accused the Americans of trying to recover evidence from
Mexican soil and threatened to kill them if they crossed the border, prompting
both sides to draw their guns, said the 16-year-old boy who asked not to be
further identified for fear of reprisal.

The confrontation occurred Monday night over the body of Sergio Adrian Hernandez
Huereka, who died of his wounds beside the column of a railroad bridge
connecting Ciudad Juarez, Mexico, and El Paso, Texas.

Each government has made veiled accusations suggesting misconduct on the part of
the other's law enforcement agents.

Hernandez was found 20 feet into Mexico, and an autopsy revealed that the fatal
shot was fired at a relatively close range, according to Arturo Sandoval, a
spokesman for the Chihuahua state attorney general's office. Mexican authorities
said a .40-caliber shell casing was found near the body, suggesting that the
U.S. Border Patrol agent might have crossed into Mexico to shoot the boy.

That would violate the rules for Border Patrol agents, who are supposed to stay
on the U.S. side - and could open the agent to a Mexican homicide prosecution.

A U.S. official close to the investigation told the AP that authorities have a
video showing that the Border Patrol agent did not cross into Mexico. In fact,
the official said, the video shows what appear to be members of Mexican law
enforcement crossing onto the U.S. side, picking something up and returning to
Mexico. The official was not cleared to speak about the video and spoke only on
condition of anonymity.

Alejandro Pariente, Chihuahua state's regional deputy attorney general, said the
U.S. Border Patrol has given him video that he is reviewing. He declined to
describe it except to say that it has sped up the investigation.

The two killings have provoked anger in Mexico like no other recent controversy
surrounding immigration, including Arizona's new law making it a state crime to
be an illegal immigrant and President Barack Obama's decision to send the
National Guard to the border.

Although many Mexicans were unhappy with both initiatives, popular and official
reaction had been subdued, in contrast to street protests seen in previous years
when the U.S. has cracked down on the border. Many Mexicans have since given up
hope for a quick solution to the immigration problem, while other issues
including growing drug violence have taken center stage in relations between the
two countries.

That has started to change with the back-to-back deaths of two Mexicans at the
border: the teenager killed Monday, and migrant Anastasio Hernandez, 42, who
died after a Customs and Border Protection officer shocked him with a stun gun
at the San Ysidro border crossing that separates San Diego and Tijuana, Mexico.

Anastasio Hernandez, who had lived in the U.S. since he was 14, was buried in
San Diego on Wednesday.

Among those at the funeral was Humberto Navarrete, who said he was walking
across the pedestrian bridge near Tijuana when he witnessed the confrontation
and started recording it with his cell phone. In the blurry video, a man can be
heard crying and yelling, "Help me! Help me, please!"

San Diego police detective Kevin Rooney said he is trying to reach Navarrete to
see the footage and interview him for his investigation.

LOAD-DATE: June 11, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC:  Photo by GREGORY BULL  o  Associated Press - Relatives and friends of
Anastasio Hernandez carry his casket toward a church before funeral services
Wednesday in San Diego. Hernandez died May 28 after being shocked with a stun
gun by a U.S. border agent.

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                  Copyright 2010 St. Louis Post-Dispatch, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              99 of 137 DOCUMENTS


                       St. Louis Post-Dispatch (Missouri)

                             June 10, 2010 Thursday
                                 SECOND EDITION

Making strides in care Money from Komen race helps pay for health services for
immigrant, refugee women.

BYLINE: BY CYNTHIA BILLHARTZ GREGORIAN o cbillhartz@post-dispatch.com >
314-340-8114

SECTION: HEALTH; Pg. B1

LENGTH: 1199 words

DATELINE: 0


Joumana Kheireddine, an immigrant from Beirut, Lebanon, could feel the lump in
her breast. A big, hard lump.

Three times, the 35-year-old mother of four went to a community health center in
St. Louis in 2006. And all three times a doctor there barely examined her before
pronouncing her too young to have breast cancer, she said.

Months passed. In January 2007, Kheireddine broke her back. That's when she
learned she had Stage 4 breast cancer that had metastasized to bones throughout
her body.

Taybat Ibrahami, an interpreter with The Daylight Project, which is part of
Barnes-Jewish Hospital's Refugee Health and Interpreter Services, doesn't know
whether language or cultural differences played a role in delaying Kheireddine's
diagnosis. But she knows they won't be barriers again. She won't allow it.

On Saturday, more than 67,000 participants will flood the streets of downtown
St. Louis to take part in the 12th annual Susan G. Komen St. Louis Race for the
Cure.

Erica B. Stelling, director of public relations for the local affiliate, said
they're hoping to pass the 70,000 participant mark, breaking a world record for
Komen Race for the Cure participation. Since its inception in 1999, the St.
Louis race has raised more than $19 million.

Part of those funds - currently $100,000 annually - go to the Daylight Project,
which provides screenings and education to immigrant and refugee women in St.
Louis. The funds also pay for interpreters like Ibrahami to go out into
communities to talk about breast health, taxi vouchers to get women to and from
appointments, child care, breast models to teach self exam and other educational
materials. It also pays for navigators who help patients access the services
they need.

More than 190,000 American women were diagnosed with breast cancer last year.
Many of them are uninsured and have low rates of health literacy that hinder and
block access to treatment. Throw in language and cultural gaps, and a
frightening and confusing situation gets worse.

"I don't think there's another program like ours," said Eva Enoch, outreach
coordinator for the project. "There are bits and pieces at other clinics, but
ours is the only one that targets refugees by going into the community."

Enoch's first step when the program was formed in 2002 was to create educational
brochures on breast health, translate them into several languages and distribute
them in immigrant communities. Then she sat back and waited for the phone to
ring.

"Quickly, we realized it doesn't work like that," she said.

Enoch decided a better tack might be to establish trust by reaching out to
interpreters for help and organizing health fairs with, say, flu shots for
entire immigrant families and bringing along a mammography van. Getting women
inside to be screened was another matter.

"Many were war refugees who had just come out of a war zone and the Saddam
Hussein regime where if you got on a van, you might not come back," she said.

Ibrahami went in first to be screened. It worked. But after that they decided to
hold a Women Behind the Veil day each October at the Breast Health Center for
the 2,000 Arab-speaking immigrants in the area. They use only female
technicians, doctors and even registrars to screen the women and teach breast
self exams. Being examined by men is taboo in some Middle Eastern cultures.

Interpreters are hired for cultural knowledge as well as their language skills.
The Daylight Project trains them to be Wise Women who speak up when
opportunities arise. For instance, Enoch says, when women gather to make bread
for weddings and there aren't any men around, a Wise Woman will bring up the
taboo topic.

They also act as patient advocates and dispel misguided notions about breast
health and breast cancer that clients carry here from their native lands.

A lot of women are ashamed of having breast cancer. They believe it's a curse
for a bad deed they've done, Enoch said. They hang out in the bathroom or on
another floor before appointments so no one will see them.

Others, particularly Middle Eastern women, refuse to tell family members that
they have cancer even though they're undergoing rigorous treatments.

"The husband goes around hearing things, he can see it and feel (the worry and
tension) but he will say nothing because she is keeping it quiet," said
Ibrahami. "Sometimes, I try to be involved with that, but sometimes I'm unable
to. They won't let me."

In the Hispanic community, women don't talk about intimate parts of their
bodies, said interpreter Irma Martinez, a retired dentist from Colombia who
interprets for Latinas. "So they don't know about self breast exams and
mammograms."

For the past year and half, Martinez has been working with Maria Duron, 49, a
native of Monterrey, Mexico, who now lives in St. Charles. Duron had a large
malignant mass removed from her breast as well as several lymph nodes.

She then had six months of chemotherapy followed by three months of radiation.
Latina women often view breast cancer as a death sentence, Martinez said. She
informs them that it's not. Then stands by them during every minute of
treatment.

Duron put her arm around Martinez's shoulders one recent afternoon, and
squeezed.

"She's an angel. She's an angel not just for me, but for all Hispanics," Duron
said, as Martinez sheepishly interpreted.

Two years ago, Enoch and Martinez created Latinas Por La Cura, a support group
for breast cancer survivors, and Komen gave them an additional $3,000 to get it
up and running. Now, each year, the group and their family members participate
in the Komen race.

There's another important message that Enoch and her crew try to convey to the
women they work with, and it's most poignantly exemplified by Kheireddine's
experience: That even women under age 40 need to be aware of lumps and other
changes in breast tissue.

No one can - or will - say what Kheireddine's prognosis is. She's still
undergoing chemotherapy treatments and remains optimistic, even laughing and
smiling during a recent visit to the Breast Health Center.

"We realized we really needed to emphasize to women to trust their instincts,"
Enoch said.

"We're empowering women to know more and seek help."

---

KOMEN ST. LOUIS RACE FOR THE CURE

When - Saturday

Where - Start line is at 14th & Olive streets. See map on B2.

Cost - $25

Registration - For timed runners, registration is closed. Non-timed runners and
walkers can register online through Friday and at the start line on race day.

Online - komenstlouis.org

Parking - There will be more than 2,000 free off-street parking spaces between 5
a.m. and 2 p.m. in the Justice Center Garage, Kiel Garage, and Kiel South
municipal parking facilities. Also, on-street parking meters are not enforced on
Saturdays.

MetroLink - There will be expanded service starting at 4:26 a.m. From 6 a.m. to
noon, trains will run every 15 minutes between Fairview Heights and Forest Park,
increasing at times to every 7 to 8 minutes. Regular weekend service will resume
after noon.

Schedule of events

7:25 a.m. - Survivor procession 8:30 a.m. - Wheelchair start 8:35 a.m. - 5K
timed runners start 8:40 a.m. - 5K untimed runners start 9:00 a.m. - 5K walkers
start 9:45 a.m. - Awards ceremony on the main stage

LOAD-DATE: June 11, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC:  Photo by Emily Rasinski  o  erasinski@post-dispatch.com  Yagaantsetseg
Dashdendev exits the Barnes-Jewish Hospital Mammography Van after having her
first mammogram at the International Institute. BJC's women's outreach program
teaches refugees and others new to America the importance of early testing for
breast cancer.  Photo by Emily Rasinski  o  erasinski@post-dispatch.com  Say Paw
(right) helps her mother, Day Po (center), as Po fills out forms for a mammogram
in the Barnes-Jewish Hospital Mammography Van.  MAP - KOMEN ST. LOUIS RACE FOR
THE CURE | Post-Dispatch

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                  Copyright 2010 St. Louis Post-Dispatch, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              100 of 137 DOCUMENTS


                       St. Louis Post-Dispatch (Missouri)

                             June 17, 2010 Thursday
                                 THIRD EDITION

DIGEST - NATION

BYLINE: From news services

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. A17

LENGTH: 449 words

DATELINE: 0


Computer agency said to need help

A government watchdog says the federal agency in charge of securing the
government's computers systems can't monitor the networks or analyze threats in
real time and lacks the authority and staff it needs to do its job. The Homeland
Security Department's inspector general says the U.S. Computer Emergency
Readiness Team is unable to provide adequate cybersecurity.

Biking, walking projects getting funding - The administration of President
Barack Obama more than doubled transportation spending on bicycling and walking
last year as it seeks to coax Americans out of their cars, according to a
Federal Highway Administration report. Spending on biking and walking projects
rose to $1.2 billion in 2009 from less than $600 million in 2008. Twenty years
ago, the federal government was spending only $6 million a year on such
projects.

Slaves' role in building Capitol is cited - Congress is honoring the
African-American slaves who helped build the U.S. Capitol. Plaques have been
erected inside the building in their memory.

McCaskill wants information - Sen. Claire McCaskill, D-Mo., is demanding that
the State Department tell Congress what role contractors will play in a
combat-ready force planned to protect diplomats in Iraq after American military
forces leave.

Immigration change - In an agreement U.S. immigration officials hope will begin
to reshape the entire 30,000-bed detention system, some asylum-seekers and
immigrants awaiting deportation proceedings could soon be held in facilities
where they can wear their own clothes, participate in movie and bingo nights and
eat continental breakfasts. It could end confinement in prison-like facilities.

Pink pill fails - A pink pill designed to boost sex drive in women - the latest
attempt by the drug industry to find a female equivalent to Viagra - fell short
in two studies, the FDA said.

Tougher child labor laws - The Labor Department is sharply increasing the
penalties against employers who illegally use child workers. Anyone illegally
employing 12- and 13-year-olds will now face a penalty of $6,000 for each
violation. The maximum fine previously was $900.

FCC vote today - The Federal Communications Commission will vote today to begin
taking public comments on regulating broadband, including "common carrier"
obligations to treat all traffic equally. The plan has the backing of big
Internet companies but is opposed by broadband providers.

Costello wants change - Jerry Costello, D-Ill., chairman of the House aviation
subcommittee, will ask Congress to restore financial regulation of the airline
industry if the Justice Department approves a proposed merger of United and
Continental airlines.

LOAD-DATE: June 18, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: BRIEF

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                  Copyright 2010 St. Louis Post-Dispatch, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              101 of 137 DOCUMENTS


                       St. Louis Post-Dispatch (Missouri)

                              July 4, 2010 Sunday
                              Correction Appended
                                THIRD EDITION *

American Symphony Our view dreds of thousands people, with musical performances
always a centerpiece of the celebration.

SECTION: EDITORIAL; Pg. A10

LENGTH: 86 words


Imagine a Fair St. Louis in 2015 that revives the master composition of an
immigrant composer first performed 100 years earlier by the St. Louis Symphony
Orchestra, when this still-diverse city truly was a city of immigrants.

Imagine the composition played once more by this great orchestra, this time in
the shadow of a Finnish-American's architectural masterpiece, adjacent to the
Dred Scott Courthouse at a newly imagined national park that commemorates the
great westward migration.

That would be an American symphony.

LOAD-DATE: July 20, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

CORRECTION-DATE: July 7, 2010



CORRECTION: Correction published, Wednesday, July 7, 2010 - In some editions,
the July 4 editorial about the Romantic Symphony of St. Louis contained
misspellings of the name of composer Carlo Giorgio Garofalo. It also misstated
the national ancestry of architect Eero Saarinen. He was Finnish-American.

GRAPHIC:  Post-Dispatch Photo -The grounds of the Gateway Arch begin to fill up
prior to the fireworks display last year.

DOCUMENT-TYPE: EDITORIAL

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                  Copyright 2010 St. Louis Post-Dispatch, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              102 of 137 DOCUMENTS


                       St. Louis Post-Dispatch (Missouri)

                              July 19, 2010 Monday
                                 SECOND EDITION

Complexity keeps many legal immigrants from family Demand for visas far
outweighs supply, delaying reunification of spouses, children for years.

BYLINE: BY AISHA SULTAN o asultan@post-dispatch.com > 314-340-8300

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. A1

LENGTH: 1226 words

DATELINE: 0


Samuel Kapata stays up at night wondering whether his 8-year-old daughter would
still be alive if he had found a way to bring her to the United States.

Patricia, who lived with Kapata's three other daughters and his stepmother in
Sierra Leone, died inexplicably on a trip from a local village to the city. She
had wanted to grow up to become a doctor.

He hasn't seen his children in eight years, since he emigrated from Africa, and
experts say he may have to wait another year to be reunited with them once he
begins the process to bring his family to the U.S. Kapata was sponsored by his
stepfather and came to the United States for a chance at a better life.

While the current debate in this country is over shutting off illegal
immigration, the system of legal immigration remains a challenge for some. The
process to sponsor family members can be onerous, expensive and lengthy,
especially for legal permanent residents, also known as green-card holders.

Since the mid-1960s, one of the driving forces of U.S. immigration policy has
been family reunification, but the renewed controversy over immigration has
raised questions about whether the system is working or is tenable for the long
term.

Kapata passed the interview and citizenship test on April 2 and is waiting for
his swearing-in ceremony. He decided to wait until he became a citizen to file
the paperwork for his daughters.

Immigration attorneys say there's no definite way to know how long it will take
for children, spouses, parents or siblings to obtain permission to rejoin family
members in America. In some cases, the waiting time is 20 years.

Stephen Legomsky, a professor at Washington University School of Law and the
author of the textbook "Immigration and Refugee Law and Policy," says this is
one of the biggest flaws in the immigration system.

He has testified before Congress several times and has served as a consultant to
three different administrations. Hundreds of thousands of people are affected by
the caps set by Congress on the number of visas allotted to family members in
certain countries, he said. For a U.S. citizen trying to bring over an unmarried
adult child from Mexico, the wait for an interview is about 18 years.

"I don't think family unity should be rationed," Legomsky said. "The vast
majority of immigration to the United States is through perfectly legal
channels, but public opinion polls show that people don't realize that and think
it is illegal."

By separating married couples and parents from their young children, the policy
"is practically begging people to immigrate illegally," he said. "This is a huge
problem."

President Barack Obama addressed the issue earlier this month when he spoke
about immigration reform.

"While an applicant waits for approval, he or she is often forbidden from
visiting the United States - which means even husbands and wives may be forced
to spend many years apart," he said. "Our laws should respect families following
the rules - instead of splitting them apart."

The majority of legal immigrants enter the country after they are sponsored by a
family member who is a citizen or green card holder. In 2009, 747,413 visas were
granted to family members.

Bob Dane, a spokesman for the Federation for American Immigration Reform based
in Washington, says the number is too high. The group advocates for cutting
legal immigration by more than two-thirds.

"There is always going to be a long line to get into the United States," he
said. "People migrate to where conditions are best for them. (It) makes sense
from the individual's standpoint, but does it make sense for the receiving
nation?"

He says legal immigrants should be limited to sponsoring spouses and children.
(Current rules also allow petitions for parents and siblings.)

Suzanne Gladney, the managing attorney for Legal Aid of Western Missouri, says
the rules should be re-examined, taking into account the needs of families, the
American work force, businesses and communities.

It may not be realistic to expect siblings to wait 20 years to get an interview
for a possible visa, she said. And eliminating the categories for parents and
siblings might speed up the process for children and spouses. But, she added,
siblings may be more likely to be educated, more open to assimilation and the
ones who go on to become doctors, lawyers and engineers.

Plus, the application process is difficult to navigate, even for educated
immigrants, fluent in English.

"It's very, very complicated ... knowing when to do something, how to do it and
how to keep track of it," she said.

Nyura Toniyan, 82, a U.S. citizen who emigrated from Azerbaijan, learned that
firsthand.

She applied five years ago to bring her adult daughter from Armenia to the
United States, but she sent the wrong form when immigration asked for a
translated birth certificate. They rejected her petition, so she must start the
process all over again, which will likely mean another six years of waiting.

She is worried about whether she will live long enough to see her daughter
again.

Tim Counts, a spokesman for the U.S. Citizenship and Immigration Services, says
the adjudication of cases actually has never been quicker.

He said unusual delays may be caused by incomplete applications, requests for
more documentation and certain procedures outside the control of USCIS, such as
background and fingerprint checks. Congress sets the number of visas issued per
country, and the extended waits for family members from certain countries is
because demand far outweighs supply, he said.

Kapata, who works as a home health aide for the disabled and attends St. Charles
Community College, hopes that when he is an American, he soon will reunite with
the family he left behind - the daughters to whom he sends boxes of clothes,
tuition for school and care packages with pictures. He has not yet met his two
youngest children, who were born after he left Sierra Leone.

But Hannah Willmann of the Catholic Immigration Law Project said the timeline
for immigrant visas available per country can change month to month.

"It's very hard to explain when their families are actually going to get here,"
she said. "You can only estimate. ... There's no certainty."

---

THE PATHS TO LEGAL IMMIGRATION INTO U.S.

A visa to immigrate into the U.S. may be granted for one of a few categories:

- Family relation: The majority of legal immigrants are sponsored by an
immediate family member who is a U.S. citizen or legal permanent resident. He or
she can sponsor a spouse, parent, child or sibling.

- Employment-based: An employer must demonstrate that no one in the U.S. is
willing or able to do a certain job. He or she must get certification from the
Department of Labor and then can sponsor a certain number of employees.

- Refugees and asylum-seekers: Refugees are assigned such status by the U.S.
Citizenship and Immigration Services overseas; asylum-seekers apply from within
the U.S., based on a fear of persecution, and must meet certain criteria.

- Lottery: Some visas are granted to those who win a lottery. Visa lotteries are
only available to underrepresented countries.

Most immigrants enter as permanent residents, also known as green-card holders.
Depending on the reason for entry, the green-card holders must wait three to
five years before applying to become a naturalized citizen.

SOURCE: U.S. Citizenship and Immigration Services

LOAD-DATE: July 20, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC:  Stephanie S. Cordle o  scordle@post-dispatch.com Nyura Toniyan, 82, of
St. Louis, applied five years ago to bring her daughter to the U.S., but she
sent the wrong form when immigration asked for a translated birth certificate.
She must start the process all over again, which will likely mean another six
years of waiting.  Stephanie S. Cordle  o  scordle@post-dispatch.com Nyura
Toniyan holds photographs last month of her three children, Erevan (from left),
Robert and Anetta. Toniyan is a U.S. citizen who emigrated from Azerbaijan. She
has been trying for years to help her daughter join her in the United States
from Armenia. Congress sets the number of visas issued per country.

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                  Copyright 2010 St. Louis Post-Dispatch, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              103 of 137 DOCUMENTS


                       St. Louis Post-Dispatch (Missouri)

                              July 26, 2010 Monday
                                 THIRD EDITION

Disabled left in immigration limbo Report criticizes government's handling of
those with mental disabilities.

BYLINE: By DAVID CRARY o Associated Press

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. A8

LENGTH: 395 words

DATELINE: 0


NEW YORK - Thousands of mentally disabled immigrants are entangled in
deportation proceedings each year with little or no legal help, leaving them
distraught, defenseless and detained as their fates are decided.

Their plight is detailed in a report issued Sunday by Human Rights Watch and the
American Civil Liberties Union, who exhort federal authorities to do better.

Shortcomings outlined by the two groups include no right to appointed counsel,
inflexible detention policies, insufficient guidance for judges on handling
people with mental disabilities, and inadequately coordinated services to aid
detainees while in custody.

"No one knows what to do with detainees with mental disabilities, so every part
of the immigration system has abdicated responsibility," said Sarah Mehta, the
report's lead author. "The result is people languishing in detention for years
while their legal files - and their lives - are transferred around or put on
indefinite hold."

The report, "Deportation by Default," documents cases of noncitizens who could
not understand questions, were delusional, couldn't tell the date or time, and
didn't understand the concept of deportation - for example, saying they wanted
to be deported to New York.

The federal agencies involved in the deportation system are well aware of many
of the problems cited in the report, and Mehta said she had been cautiously
encouraged by some recent steps to better handle people with mental
disabilities.

For example, the Justice Department's Executive Office of Immigration Review
expanded its guidebook for immigration judges this year to include a section on
mental health issues, is producing a training video covering similar ground, and
recently established a post of "assistant chief immigration judge for vulnerable
populations."

U.S. Immigration and Customs Enforcement, the agency that arrests and detains
people facing deportation, will host a national forum in September seeking input
from mental health experts on ways to improve its practices.

The new report urges Congress to require appointment of lawyers for all people
with mental disabilities in immigration courts. It recommends mandatory training
for immigration judges to recognize mental disabilities, and calls for repeal of
a regulation allowing a mentally disabled detainee to be represented in court by
the warden of the detention facility.

LOAD-DATE: July 27, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                  Copyright 2010 St. Louis Post-Dispatch, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              104 of 137 DOCUMENTS


                       St. Louis Post-Dispatch (Missouri)

                             July 27, 2010 Tuesday
                                 FIRST EDITION

DIGEST - NATION

BYLINE: From news services

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. A6

LENGTH: 360 words

DATELINE: 0


Kerry said his yacht will sail home

Sen. John Kerry, D-Mass., said Monday the only reason his new $7 million yacht
docked in Rhode Island was to have work done before coming to Massachusetts,
where it will dock despite $437,500 in one-time sales tax and $70,000 in annual
excise taxes. He said he never intended to permanently dock in Rhode Island and
avoid the taxes.

Obama backs Democratic plan - In a White House Rose Garden speech, President
Barack Obama implored the Senate on Monday to pass a campaign finance law that
Republicans and business groups are attacking as political censorship and an
effort to limit the number of ads aimed at Democratic incumbents in November's
elections.

Immigrant fingerprinting criticized - The federal government is rapidly
expanding a program that identifies and deports illegal immigrants by checking
their fingerprints upon arrest. Immigrant advocates around the country are
criticizing the program.

Tancredo enters race - Former GOP congressman Tom Tancredo will seek a
third-party nomination to enter the Colorado gubernatorial race. Tancredo will
seek the nomination of the American Constitution Party so he can enter the race.
Tancredo said Republican candidate Scott McInnis has no chance of beating
Democrat John Hickenlooper in November in the wake of his plagiarism scandal.

Michelle Obama going to Spain - The White House said Michelle Obama will travel
to Spain next week for a private trip with longtime family friends. Obama will
be traveling with her youngest daughter, Sasha.

Autism drug being removed - Pharmacies are halting sales of OSR1, a compound
marketed as a dietary supplement to parents of children with autism, six weeks
after the U.S. Food and Drug Administration called the product an unapproved new
drug. Boyd Haley, president of CTI Science, the company that makes the product,
told pharmacists by e-mail that OSR1 would not be available after Thursday.

Alcohol a factor in deadly crash - The California Highway Patrol said Monday
that an 18-year-old woman driving a sport utility vehicle that collided with a
Greyhound bus last week, killing six, had a blood-alcohol level above the legal
limit.

LOAD-DATE: July 28, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC:  Mark Lennihan  o  Associated Press FLOAT TRIP - A 350-foot-long
replacement bridge is floated on a barge on the East River as it passes the
Brooklyn Bridge and the lower Manhattan skyline Monday in New York. The bridge
will replace the Willis Avenue bridge, which connects Manhattan and the Bronx.

DOCUMENT-TYPE: BRIEF

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                  Copyright 2010 St. Louis Post-Dispatch, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              105 of 137 DOCUMENTS


                       St. Louis Post-Dispatch (Missouri)

                            July 28, 2010 Wednesday
                                 THIRD EDITION

Helping innovators New program provides loans to female immigrant and refugee
entrepreneurs.

BYLINE: BY DOUG MOORE o dmoore@post-dispatch.com > 314-340-8125

SECTION: COMMUNITY; Pg. B1

LENGTH: 610 words

DATELINE: 0


ST. LOUIS - As the sun begins to set and commuters head toward home, Daphne
Ingram loads up the cart customers have dubbed "Walmart on wheels."

Loaded with body oils, air fresheners, T-shirts, socks and costume jewelry,
Ingram takes her mobile business to Fairground Park, where she most frequently
sells her wares.

Her street preacher style is both aggressive and charming, her strong Jamaican
accent piercing the air. She mixes her selling with spreading God's word. She
says her faith is what has made her business possible. The two should not be
mutually exclusive, she said.

Ingram loves being a street vendor. She has hustled since she was a child,
proudly announcing that she never asked for a dime from her mom growing up as
one of 18 children on the island country.

But even the best salesmen hit a lull, like Ingram did last year. The customers
in the park and those at the busy Central West End MetroLink station were not
buying as much. Ingram heard about a loan program offered to immigrant and
refugee women entrepreneurs.

She was able to borrow the maximum $1,000 at no interest as long as she paid it
back in one year. And she, like other women who received loans through the
International Institute, had to agree to meet monthly to share their business
experiences.

"We can encourage each other and give each other ideas," Ingram said.

The Peer Lending Circle, as it is officially known, serves as a support group,
of sorts. Members can help keep spirits up when business is down, Ingram said.

The monthly meetings are usually held at Georgette Djona's house, where she runs
a day care. She was the first to pay back her loan. She could stop participating
in the meetings but sees them as too important to give up.

"It keeps us going. We tell each other: 'Don't give up when there is some
obstacle,'" said Djona, who is Congolese.

A staff member from the Institute oversees the meetings. And the agency helps
the women create business plans, financial projections and marketing materials,
such as business cards and fliers. The United Way of Greater St. Louis provided
the grant for the program.

Many women immigrants and refugees delay getting a job or starting a career,
focusing on raising their children. It's common for refugee women to arrive in
the U.S. as widows, with little education and few job skills.

Creating a micro loan program can provide seed money or help a business expand,
said Kathleen Delpha, senior vice president of finance and business development
services for the International Institute. Perhaps most importantly, she said,
the loan allows the women to establish credit, crucial for borrowing money from
a bank, she said.

Five women have received loans from the new program so far. All but Ingram are
African. Women who are interested in participating in the program are encouraged
to attend the meetings to learn from and support the members. When a loan is
repaid, the money is made available to another woman.

Ingram, 53, used her loan to replace her broken cart and to purchase more
merchandise and a computer. She hopes to create a website to promote her
business. For a woman who began with $40 to start her business three years ago,
the loan was a huge boost.

Ingram is saving for a van so she can more easily haul her cart and merchandise.
Currently, she relies on public transportation.

Ingram says she will eventually have a storefront for her business, officially
licensed with the city as Nixnox. But she will hire someone to man it, focusing
her energies on selling from a cart.

"I like to move around, meet different people," Ingram said. "Sitting in one
place, waiting for people to come in would be like suffocating."

LOAD-DATE: July 29, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC:  Photos by Laurie Skrivan o lskrivan@post-dispatch.com  Daphne Ingram
holds up a T-shirt for Emile Bradford-Taylor of St. Louis at the Metro bus
station in the Central West End. "My customers changed the name of my business
and call me Walmart on Wheels," said Ingram of St. Louis.  "To tell you the
truth, when I paid off my loan, I cried," said Ingram, who paid off her $1,000
microloan from the Peer Lending Circle two months early.  Video o See more from
Ingram. stltoday.com/multimedia  "Everyday I force myself to sell, sell, sell,"
said Ingram who has a street vendor license to sell her goods at the Metro bus
station in the Central West End.

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                  Copyright 2010 St. Louis Post-Dispatch, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              106 of 137 DOCUMENTS


                       St. Louis Post-Dispatch (Missouri)

                             August 8, 2010 Sunday
                                 FOURTH EDITION

Irish immigrants fought back in nativist riots of 1854 A Look Back o 8,000
newcomers were regarded with disdain.

BYLINE: BY TIM O'NEIL o toneil@post-dispatch.com > 314-340-8132

SECTION: COMMUNITY; Pg. B2

LENGTH: 472 words

DATELINE: 0


ST. LOUIS - Ireland's potato famine, beginning in 1845, propelled thousands of
refugees into the crowded tenements near Washington Avenue. The Irish were poor,
suddenly numerous and drank in public after Mass on Sundays.

The city's elite of Southern-bred Protestant gentlemen and old French families
regarded the 8,000 newcomers with uneasy disdain. As Irish and German immigrants
poured into the city, local nativists joined the national "Know Nothing"
movement (named for the answer its members gave to nosy questions). As always,
elections invited trouble.

On Aug. 7, 1854, U.S. Rep. Thomas Hart Benton, a veteran former senator, ran for
re-election to the House and courted immigrant votes. Nativists backed former
Mayor Luther Kennett. That morning, the Missouri Republic, a pro-Kennett
newspaper, printed this call to arms: "A large number of illegal votes will be
attempted. Watch them close."

Hundreds of vigilant Kennett supporters gathered in the heavily Irish 5th Ward,
running west from the Mississippi River north of Washington, where zealous poll
judges were busy disqualifying voters. In the inevitable street jostling, an
Irishman stabbed a boy and fled to Second and Morgan streets, in today's
Laclede's Landing.

Nativists chased him through a boarding house, which they trashed with relish.
They smashed the windows and furniture of houses nearby as many more joined the
commotion. Weapons were rocks, bricks and occasional gunfire.

Irish steamboat workers formed a skirmish line on Morgan, where they gave as
good as they received, with the support of shots fired from flanking tenements.
At least three died there.

The nativist mob moved west along Morgan and Franklin avenues, wrecking more
Irish homes, taverns and businesses. They ranged as far west as Seventh Street
(today's America's Center). The pro-Benton mayor, John How, tried to restore
order with the city's 63 police officers, but only nightfall and exhaustion got
the job done.

Violence resumed the next afternoon, when local militia units - men more used to
parades than combat - clashed with Irish mobs at present-day Broadway and Lucas
Street (near what is now the Missouri Athletic Club). Sporadic street fights
continued a third day as How convened an emergency meeting at the (old)
courthouse, where citizens disbanded the police and formed a special posse. Late
that night, the riot finally spent itself.

Contemporary reports put the toll at 10 dead, at least 30 wounded and 93 Irish
dwellings and businesses damaged. The ethnic riot was the city's worst.

Kennett won the much-disputed election. The Republic trumpeted 5th Ward results
favoring Kennett, but the pro-Benton Daily Democrat cried foul. The central-city
3rd Ward, home to the upper class, took Kennett 4-to-1. The immigrants kept
arriving, doubling the city's population to 160,000 by 1860.

LOAD-DATE: August 9, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC:  Photo - Kennett  Photo - How  Photo - Benton  Missouri Historical
Society Photo - A map of St. Louis at the time of the 1854 riots.

DOCUMENT-TYPE: COLUMN

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                  Copyright 2010 St. Louis Post-Dispatch, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              107 of 137 DOCUMENTS


                       St. Louis Post-Dispatch (Missouri)

                            August 21, 2010 Saturday
                                 THIRD EDITION

CIVIL RELIGION Highlights from our blog about faith, written by contributors
from a variety of worship traditions. STLtoday.com/civilreligion

SECTION: RELIGION; Pg. A10

LENGTH: 904 words

DATELINE: 0


Moving beyond immigration hysteria, 'sins of the fathers'

Anchor babies. Terrorist babies. Birth tourism. Drop and leave.

A few weeks ago, I had never heard of any of those terms. Now they're all over
the media ... . It's almost as if "shock and awe" describes the tone of our
public discourse now, instead of a military strategy.

The immigration system in this country is a mess, and nearly every politician
and most of the rest of us normal folks know that it needs fixing. But hysteria
over illegal immigrants has an ugly face that turns our national discourse into
a fear-mongering, name-calling, mudslinging embarrassment.

So is there a religious point to this? Yes. Speaking only for myself, and as a
practicing Christian, the point is that all human beings are made in the image
and likeness of God. (Somehow that's always the point when it comes to thinking
about how to treat others, isn't it?) Charity, hospitality, grace: for
Christians those should be more than words. I'm not pretending to know how to
fix the immigration system. If you do, great; but can you tell the rest of us
without turning it into blood sport, without accusing anyone who disagrees with
you of being an idiot or a heretic or a traitor? (Pamela Dolan > 08.18)

YOU REPLIED

- This issue brings me back to the confrontation between the Gentile woman and
the Lord in Matthew, Chapter 15. What incredible faith and vision this woman had
to recognize that the Gentiles like herself could still inherit the Lord like
little dogs eating fallen crumbs from their masters' table. (Phillipian)

- These things do get ugly. And sometimes for good reasons; reasons that defy
the usual beg-off of xenophobia and racism. It gets divisive not (only) for
these types of reasons, but because we're talking about a category of people
that seem to want nothing to do with America, except the privileges of citizens.
They exclude themselves, so the division is innate. (mikew)

WE REPORTED

Is happiness a religious issue?

There have been lots of books and articles and studies about happiness lately,
and it got me wondering how happiness fits in with religions. In religious
humanism, human happiness in this life is the ultimate goal - both by removing
the barriers to happiness such as violence, fear, hunger, pain, and by
increasing the access to things that tend to increase human happiness, such as
love, supportive community, education and arts, meaningful work, etc. I know
that many forms of Buddhism give happiness as the goal of life.

What does your religious or philosophical tradition say about happiness? Is
being happy one of your goals? Or do you see pursuing happiness as selfish, or
as an oxymoron? Some research suggests that happier people are more charitable
and more peaceful. But pursuing happiness can also be at the expense of others,
if we think that power or riches will make us happy.

Do you think the current fad of talking about happiness is helpful or hurtful to
society? Are you on the seeking-happiness bandwagon? (Kate Lovelady > 08.16)

YOU REPLIED

- I see a difference between happiness and joy; happiness is pleasure from the
world, joy is pleasure from God. Joy is my goal. I experience intense joy when I
worship, pray, talk to, learn more about and serve God. (John R.)

WE REPORTED

Whoever sings prays twice: Some thoughts on music and prayer

Whatever the style of music involved, church is one of the few places where
grown-ups still get together and sing. I think it's awfully good for us to let
down our guard and let loose on a beloved hymn, not worrying about whether we're
"good" singers or not. Those who sing pray twice, as St. Augustine supposedly
said.

Which brings me to the connection I wanted to make to prayer. I think praying is
another thing that we do quite naturally when we're young, but as we grow older
we tend to become intimidated and inhibited about it, until we might let it drop
out of their lives completely. I wonder if it's not pretty common to put the
same expectations on ourselves about singing and praying: if we're not good at
it, we should just leave it to the professionals. Which leads to a pretty
impoverished sort of way to live, unfortunately.

Another thing about music that reminds me of prayer: It takes time. It takes
place in time. Prayer cannot be hurried; it simply takes as long as it takes.
Maybe that's another reason we let it drop out of our lives. Who has time for
such an unproductive activity?

So, if you think you're not good at prayer but you'd like to give it a try, I
have a suggestion. Sing. Pick an old hymn that's still stuck in your brain in
spite of yourself, lock yourself in your car or somewhere private, and let
loose. Don't try to do it right. Just open yourself up to the experience and see
what happens. Who knows? It could become a habit. (Pamela Dolan > 08.13)

YOU REPLIED

- I believe that God loves all types of musical sounds and styles as long as
they were and are created to praise and exalt Him.

Music is as important to our souls and spirits as is the air that we breath, I
believe. Can anyone imagine a world without music? (D. Walker)

- I've never heard of anyone saying they weren't "good at" prayer, unless what
they really meant was "I'm not good at public speaking, so no, I won't give the
benediction." Some people do have more pleasing singing voices than others for
performance. But for praise, I think all that matters is "making a joyful
noise." (Kathy Nance)

LOAD-DATE: August 22, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                  Copyright 2010 St. Louis Post-Dispatch, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              108 of 137 DOCUMENTS


                       St. Louis Post-Dispatch (Missouri)

                            September 5, 2010 Sunday
                                 FOURTH EDITION

Open arms lead to influx But stagnant economy has been hard on newcomers looking
for a new life. ST. LOUIS IMMIGRATION

BYLINE: By PHILIP DINE o Special to the Post-Dispatch

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. A1

LENGTH: 1865 words

DATELINE: 0


For one woman, the journey to St. Louis has been a rough one, and the problems
didn't end when she arrived here.

The troubles of Philomene Iyesa-Boyonga, wife of a military man in the
Democratic Republic of Congo, began years ago when her husband was kidnapped.

The rival military faction that took him, killed him and then kidnapped
Iyesa-Boyonga. She escaped and fled to neighboring Nigeria but had to leave her
four children.

For five years, she lived in a refugee camp. Finally, international authorities
referred her to U.S. officials, and she was assigned to St. Louis, arriving on
March 31.

These days her focus is on finding the means to get by. She's completed training
at a refugee resettlement agency and wants to care for older adults but can't
land any type of work.

Refugees and immigrants from around the world have settled in St. Louis by the
tens of thousands over the last two decades.

But the sharp downturn in the economy is hitting the immigrant community hard.

In the 1990s, unemployment among new refugees was 2 percent. Now it is more than
20 percent. At the same time that joblessness is growing, help is often less
available from resettlement agencies, churches and nonprofits.

Still, immigration is rising faster here than in other parts of the country.
Immigrants are drawn by the area's continuing reputation for tranquility,
responsive local institutions, excellent resettlement agencies and expanding
kinship networks.

St. Louis stands apart from most metropolitan areas, including similar
Midwestern cities, with a 40 percent rise over the past decade in the number of
immigrants arriving. That dwarfs Cleveland's 5 percent increase or Pittsburgh's
13 percent growth - and is nearly double the national increase of 22 percent.

There are more than 120,000 foreign-born people in St. Louis, up from just over
80,000 in 2000 - and fewer than 50,000 in 1990. The population of undocumented
immigrants is estimated by government agencies to exceed 20,000, up from about
12,000 in the mid-1990s.

Once they arrive in St. Louis, these shifting and growing streams of immigrants
and refugees face obstacles beyond the downturn in jobs, including cutbacks in
critical public services such as transportation, and institutions with fewer
resources to help at a time when the needs are greater.

SHIFTING PATTERNS

Compared with most large metropolitan areas, St. Louis for decades saw very few
foreign-born people settle in the area, either as immigrants moving here
voluntarily or as refugees resettled here because of civil unrest.

Even the sharp increase in immigration that occurred in the 1990s and 2000s -
far outpacing the nation as a whole - did little to make immigration a hot
topic.

That's in part because the flow was so diverse, representing about 90
nationalities. As a result, Chinese and Pakistanis, Bosnians and Palestinians,
Ethiopians and Romanians, Russian Jews and Cubans, Albanians and Mexicans,
Vietnamese and Poles, Indians and Filipinos, Hondurans and Koreans and many
others were threaded throughout the region.

And many were professionals, working in academic, technical or medical
positions, which also differentiated St. Louis from other places, as did the
unusually high proportion of refugees.

All these factors helped avert the formation of large ethnic enclaves into which
the newcomers could retreat. As a result, they tended to adapt without fanfare
to their new home, learning English, getting jobs and generally being
integrated.

"The diversity and diffusion of the immigrant community have kept immigration
under the radar in St. Louis and have contributed to the city's relative
tolerance," says Steve Legomsky, a Washington University law professor and
immigration expert.

But the local dynamics are changing. For years, the refugee flow consisted
primarily of groups with sufficient education, occupational skills and
familiarity with Western culture to make a relatively smooth transition.

Now, more refugees are coming from geographically or culturally remote areas.
They often fled conflicts and spent years in temporary camps with little access
to education or health care.

Once here they encounter a far more challenging economic environment than did
their immediate predecessors such as the Bosnians of the 1990s, the city's
biggest refugee group.

ECONOMIC WOES

Hussein Mada and Maria Kamero, a Somali couple, were resettled in St. Louis
seven years ago. Things looked good for a while. He worked as a machine
operator, making beds at a plant in St. Louis County; his wife was a bookbinder
in St. Louis.

But both lost their jobs in 2008 as the economy soured.

With few material or human resources to draw on, their situation rapidly
deteriorated.

When their gas bill exceeded $1,000 18 months ago, the utility cut off them off.
Kamero sought help from a local church. But it was strapped for resources
because of growing requests from others in similar situations, and because
parishioners who normally donated had their own struggles. Determined to help,
the church gave Kamero an electric hot plate to heat water so the couple's eight
children could bathe.

The faltering economy has hit immigrants and refugees - often the newest on the
job and facing language barriers - particularly hard. A few years ago, the
International Institute of St. Louis, the area's leading refugee resettlement
agency, regularly placed 98 percent of refugees in jobs within a few months. Now
it regards itself as fortunate if it finds jobs for 80 percent - a tenfold rise
in initial unemployment.

The institute said it used to place only 10 percent to 15 percent of new
refugees in the state welfare system, now it's 50 percent.

And immigrants fortunate enough to have work earn 18 percent to 20 percent less
than native workers in the same field, according to a national study by the
Migration Policy Institute in Washington.

Refugees and immigrants have been particularly affected by the area's decline in
manufacturing and construction jobs - two areas that typically pay relatively
well and don't require much English-speaking ability.

"We used to get calls from employers who wanted warm bodies for their factories
and didn't even care if they spoke English," said Ron Klutho, who has long
worked closely with Bosnians and other refugees. "Now if I call a potential
employer asking about a job, they won't even talk to me. Before, they would take
any refugee, because they had the reputation of being good workers. They
probably still do, but there are a lot of Americans who need the job - and who
speak good English."

Not only newer immigrants and refugees are affected. Bethuel Moalusi, a refugee
from South Africa, spent 16 years in St. Louis, much of it as a truck driver,
before losing his job more than two years ago.

After moving to St. Louis, his family had invested its economic future partly in
his wife, who received associate's, bachelor's and master's degrees, but she
died in 2007.

Now, while he studies for his GED, he survives on food stamps and the money his
17-year-old special needs son gets from SSI.

"A lot of people are coming here, but there are no jobs," he says. "They bring
people from all over the world. Why do they do that? People are suffering."

GETTING TO THE JOBS

Employment is not the only issue. Housing and transportation challenges also are
having an impact.

Immigrants tend to live initially in the city of St. Louis, because of the
availability of affordable housing, the prospect of blending in by living in
apartment buildings, and the presence of resettlement agencies that provide
services for refugees.

But for the most part the jobs are elsewhere. The bulk of the job growth has
occurred in places like St. Charles County and other suburbs, where housing
tends to be more expensive and there are fewer rental units.

That creates transportation dilemmas for immigrants and others, especially given
the increasing patchwork of part-time jobs that many might have to string
together in this economy. Workers washing dishes for a few hours a night in a
distant restaurant may spend more time in transit than on the job, and if their
shift ends late, they might spend most of their pay on a taxi to get home.

"Transportation is really at the heart of much of this," says Anna Crosslin,
president of the International Institute. "Living out there is not affordable.
If you work a second shift at Harrah's, how do you get back?"

Gideon Ndam, who came here from Cameroon, quickly found work as a dietary aide
in a nursing home in Chesterfield. For 14 months, he spent two hours a day each
way on two buses and a train. When he lost that job, he made train parts at a
factory in Granite City, until that job vanished in early 2009.

"We are surprised but we don't have any options. We have to beg," he says - an
admission never heard in the past from St. Louis' refugees or immigrants, and
one that makes him feel "not comfortable."

The organizations helping immigrants are strapped for resources because more
people require help, fewer residents are able to donate and government has cut
services.

Federal assistance often lasts just a few months for refugees, who are expected
to land a job within four months or so. A few years ago most had multiple job
offers, but now refugees are fortunate to receive a single, often undesirable,
offer.

Iyesa-Boyonga, the Congolese refugee, regularly shows up at an agency seeking
work. And every time, she is told to return the next day.

"Before coming here, I thought there would be work," she says.

Still, she feels positively about St. Louis. "People are nice. They like
foreigners," she says.

One recent afternoon, her three months of assistance for rent and utilities from
the refugee agency about to run out, with no job prospects, nowhere else to turn
and her telephone - her only link to her children - about to be disconnected,
she showed up at the office of Sister Paulette Weindel of St. Pius V Catholic
Church on South Grand Boulevard.

"She's lonely, doesn't know many people, she's frightened, doesn't have many
friends, her family's not here, everything is complicated," Sister Paulette
said.

When this happens, she wants the refugee to "feel safe and comfortable and that
someone is listening."

"And then, I panic, because I don't have the resources. I'm trying to think,
'Whom can I connect them to?'"

Federal funding, though recently increased, covers significantly less than what
the International Institute, St. Louis' top refugee resettlement agency, spends
now on a population far needier and more expensive to serve, given the
multiplicity of uncommon languages spoken by new refugees.

Sheiknur Hassan, president of the Somali Bantu Community of Missouri, tries to
help his countrymen with housing or work. But he has been running the
organization without a salary since October, and his own situation is growing
dire.

An agricultural expert in Somalia, he helped make new farming technology useful
for small farmers before he fled civil war. Now he struggles to provide diapers
for the two smallest of his five children.

And he struggles to keep up the spirits of those he is trying to help.

"The dream is not true," he laments. "The dream we are dreaming as refugees when
we came here is not true."

LOAD-DATE: September 5, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES:  st. louis immigration  o  part 1 of 2

GRAPHIC:  Photo by David Carson  o  dcarson@post-dispatch.co  Aseel Thamer helps
her husband, Ahmed Mashshay, hang flowers on the porch of their south St. Louis
home recently.  The couple immigrated to St. Louis from Iraq with their two
children  about a year and a half ago. Mashshay worked with the American
military in Iraq after the invasion and lived with his family as refugees in
Turkey and Syria before arriving in St. Louis.  Photos by Bethany Mollenkof o
bmollenkof@post-dispatch.com  Photo - Maria Kamero, who is from Somalia, is the
mother of eight children ranging from 3 to 18 years old. She and her husband,
Hussein Mada, settled here seven years ago but lost their jobs in 2008. At one
time, immigrants had few problems getting jobs in the St. Louis area, even if
they didn't speak English well.  Photo - Philomene Iyesa-Boyonga lives in south
St. Louis after fleeing the Democratic Republic of Congo. Her husband, who was
in the military, was killed by a rival faction.  Post-Dispatch Graphic -
Immigrant Population  Post-Dispatch Graphic - Comparative rate of increase in
foreign born

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                  Copyright 2010 St. Louis Post-Dispatch, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              109 of 137 DOCUMENTS


                       St. Louis Post-Dispatch (Missouri)

                            September 5, 2010 Sunday
                                 FOURTH EDITION

Area has rebirth as hub for immigrants Backlash in St. Louis has not developed,
in part because of the diversity of the immigrant population. ST. LOUIS
IMMIGRATION

BYLINE: BY PHILIP DINE o Special to the Post-Dispatch

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. A11

LENGTH: 551 words

DATELINE: 0


One and a half centuries ago, St. Louis had the highest percentage of immigrants
of any U.S. city. Fully half the 160,000 residents in 1860 were foreign-born.

Most numerous were Germans (54 percent) and Irish (32 percent) with a sprinkling
of English, French, Swiss and Bohemians, according to the Missouri Historical
Society.

Chicago and the Northeast's growing industrial sector beckoned, however, and by
1920, St. Louis occupied the other extreme, possessing the nation's lowest
foreign-born percentage.

The dearth of immigrants to St. Louis for most of the rest of the 20th century
was the very factor that eventually led to a sharp upsurge the past two decades.

When the refugee stream to the U.S. rose in the 1980s, resettlement officials
looked for places to send the people fleeing war, persecution or oppression. St.
Louis was attractive because immigration was not an issue that aroused passions,
acrimony or even much discussion.

Rather, it was viewed as a safe and hospitable place for refugees, with a
diverse job market, affordable housing and three refugee resettlement agencies -
including the nationally renowned International Institute of St. Louis.

Similarly, as economic immigrants from Mexico, Central America and elsewhere
began to flee crackdowns in California and other traditional destinations in the
1990s, St. Louis loomed as a quiet and tolerant place, away from the resentment
found in states grappling with overrun schools or hospitals and with questions
of legal status.

By the mid-1990s, the St. Louis region was reaching a critical mass of
foreign-born residents, and the flow took on a self-reinforcing nature. Refugees
who had been resettled in other cities picked up and moved here, drawn by a
growing kinship network. And while immigrants previously had often arrived in
St. Louis as a secondary destination after leaving states like California or
Texas, as word spread more made St. Louis their initial choice.

For the past two decades, U.S. Census figures show the region's flow of
immigrants and refugees far outpacing the national average, jumping by 32,000 in
each decade - to 82,000 from 50,000 over the 1990s, and to 114,000 by 2008 and
about 120,000 now.

Over the past 20 years, St. Louis has averaged more than 3,200 immigrants a year
(nine arriving every day) in a region with an otherwise stagnant population.

Since 2000, St. Louis has seen a 40 percent rise in immigrants, and the local
percentage growth was even steeper in the 1990s, at more than 60 percent.

And yet St. Louis continues to be seen nationally and by its residents as a city
that is framed in white and black, and is rarely mentioned in the immigration
discussion.

There are two principal reasons.

First, the foreign-born stream to the region is highly diverse. A multitude of
small- or mid-sized groups arrived gradually and are threaded throughout the
city, surrounding counties and the Metro East area.

Second, St. Louis has a disproportionate share of refugees, who tend to arouse
sympathy rather than hostility, given the often-tragic factors that led them to
flee their homeland. Often educated, they are not seen as an economic drain in
the way that impoverished immigrants frequently are. And questions about their
legal status are rare, given the highly regulated manner in which they are
resettled.

LOAD-DATE: September 5, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                  Copyright 2010 St. Louis Post-Dispatch, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              110 of 137 DOCUMENTS


                       St. Louis Post-Dispatch (Missouri)

                            September 6, 2010 Monday
                                 THIRD EDITION

Now a 'destination' area But uneasiness begins to surface among immigrants as
enforcement looms. Concern here muted but rising ST. LOUIS IMMIGRATION - PART 2
OF 2

BYLINE: By Philip Dine o Special to the Post-Dispatch

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. A1

LENGTH: 1301 words

DATELINE: 0


Cherokee Street in south St. Louis is the site of a concentration of businesses
catering to Mexican immigrants: restaurants, law offices, ice cream parlors,
health care centers, convenience stores. Some bear signs: "Mexico vive aqui," or
"Mexico lives here."

One storefront features a list - in English - of legal services such as traffic
tickets, DWI and workers' compensation. Right next to it - in Spanish - is a
list that includes deportation, visas and other immigration-related matters.

As Jesus Ituarte walks from his law office on Pestalozzi Street in south St.
Louis, he greets one immigrant after another.

"They're all my clients," Ituarte says. Many have recently been cited in area
municipalities for driving violations that he regards as aimed more at
immigration than law enforcement.

If their documents aren't in order, they may be jailed, have to pay bond money
and be turned over to immigration officials, Ituarte says.

Sister Paulette Weindel, who has helped refugees for many years from her office
at St. Pius V Catholic Church, says she is sometimes grilled by longtime St.
Louis residents who learn of her work.

"I get these questions a lot: 'Are they legal?' 'Are you working with illegals?'
That 'legal and illegal' is in our face all the time now, from people outside my
work, when they find out what I do," she says.

For many years, two-thirds of all immigrants went to six states - New York,
California, Texas, Florida, New Jersey and Illinois. But after California
toughened its stance in the mid-1990s, new "destination states" with little
recent experience with immigrants began receiving them, including some here
illegally.

The population of undocumented immigrants in St. Louis is estimated by
government agencies to exceed 20,000, up from about 12,000 in the mid-1990s.

Currently, about one of every 100 people in the region is here illegally, still
below the national figure of about 5 percent, but a sizable population.

Immigration enforcement is now an issue in local, state and national
governments. And the growing national polarization over immigration, fueled
recently by Arizona's efforts to enforce federal immigration laws, threatens to
further roil the situation here.

"Everybody is worried since Arizona, the Hispanics and the immigrants generally,
because that law can be adapted elsewhere," says Cecilia Velasquez, editor of
the newspaper Red Latina and host of a Spanish-language radio program. "People
call us on the radio, at the newspaper, and ask, 'What is going to happen? Is
something going to happen in Missouri?' We are telling them, 'As soon as we
know, we will tell you.'"

LOCAL CRACKDOWNS

State and local authorities began taking action against illegal immigrants in
part because of the lack of a federal response.

In 2006, Valley Park passed the "Illegal Immigration Relief Act Ordinance,"
targeting anyone who employed or rented to illegal immigrants. The effort led to
lawsuits and political upheaval in town.

Several other local jurisdictions took their own tough steps. And Missouri,
under Gov. Matt Blunt, passed a tough statewide measure in 2008, which cracked
down on employers who hired undocumented immigrants, made it easier to check the
immigration status of anyone arrested, required legal checks of public employees
and denied illegal immigrants a variety of benefits.

O'Fallon, Mo., Police Chief Roy Joachimstaler says his officers now ask people
they arrest where they're from, with an eye toward immigration issues.

"Everyone that's arrested is asked where they were born, through the booking
process," Joachimstaler says. "We get the full pedigree of everyone. That's
normal procedure. But that's after they've been arrested. Our policy mirrors the
state law."

O'Fallon also requires affidavits in publicly funded projects that workers are
U.S. citizens or have legal immigration status, city spokesman Tim Drabelle
says, because of concerns about employment of illegal immigrants and substandard
wages.

In May, the St. Charles County Council - charging that the federal government
was not enforcing immigration statutes - overwhelmingly approved a nonbinding
resolution endorsing Arizona's tough immigration law and calling on Missouri's
legislators to adopt a similar measure.

In Maplewood, which has a growing Hispanic population, city officials are
dealing with housing issues.

"Somebody will rent property, showing a proper ID, and a month or two later
we're getting complaints: 'The premises are overpopulated, there are eight to 10
males living in a one- or two-bedroom apartment,'" says Maplewood City Manager
Marty Corcoran. "That's been the issue we have to deal with."

The calls are typically prompted by residents' concerns over such issues as
noise or problems parking, Corcoran says. "So we investigate, and we find the
property indeed is overpopulated. We cite the property owner."

SEEKING OPPORTUNITIES

Immigration issues "have put the Hispanic community on the defensive," says
Jorge Riopedre, executive director of the newly expanded Hispanic Chamber of
Commerce.

Chamber participants gather weekly, seeking ways to help new business owners
plant roots and existing businesses tap into an expanding new market.

"Every company I'm asking for major dollars (to help pay for Chamber programs
and staffing), they're asking me in return to connect them with Hispanic
bilingual talent," Riopedre says.

He is happy about that "because the atmosphere is a little dicey now. ... Any
time a minority group becomes more visible, there's always going to be a
negative side to that, a cultural clash, so we are seeing the same
transformative process that we've seen with different immigrant groups since
this country was founded."

Fred Wooten is a participant in the chamber who wants to build "bonds and
referrals" between Hispanics and African-Americans in St. Louis and reach out to
Bosnian, Vietnamese, Korean and other immigrant populations.

Anna Crosslin, who runs the International Institute of St. Louis, which recently
received a competitive federal grant recognizing its work with refugees as among
the best in the country, says immigrants and refugees bring much-needed
entrepreneurial energy to the region.

Riopedre agrees.

"A more diverse work force is a more dynamic, creative and energetic
population," he says. "They're going to create jobs, help the region think
outside the box. With the global economy, we can't do things the way they've
always been done. We've got to have new visions of ways of doing things."

John Ammann, director of the St. Louis University Legal Clinic and a SLU law
professor, who has worked closely with Catholic Charities, a refugee
resettlement agency here, notes that immigration issues have not reached the
emotional level they have in other communities. If passions remain in check,
polarization is unlikely to take root in St. Louis, he says.

"I think it's a temporary situation we're in," he says. "We're at the cusp of a
problem, but I'm optimistic. When the economy improves, people won't feel as
threatened."

---

ABOUT THIS SERIES

Philip Dine, a Post-Dispatch reporter, columnist and editor from 1987 to 2008,
in 1995 examined the growing influx of immigrants and refugees to St. Louis in
"An Invisible Population." This year, he revisited the topic. His stories Sunday
and today look at the local situation in light of the poor economy, rising
national controversy and evolving immigration flow to St. Louis.

Funding for this series came from the Enterprise Journalism Fund of the Press
Club of Metropolitan St. Louis. Learn more at stlpressclub.org.

VIDEO

- St. Louis immigrants speak about their experiences.

- Radio station WEW-AM 770 is the oldest radio station west of the Mississippi
and the second-oldest in the country. See how its shows help to represent the
diversity of St. Louis.

stltoday.com/multimedia

LOAD-DATE: September 7, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES:  st. louis immigration  o  part 2 of 2

GRAPHIC:  Photo by David Carson o dcarson@post-dispatch.com Friends (from left)
Jesus Martinez, Janet Cruz, July Sanchez, Orlando Epindola and Francisco Ocampo
meet up Sunday on Cherokee Street in St. Louis. The street has developed into a
hub of businesses to serve the growing Mexican immigrant population in St.
Louis.  Photo by David Carson o dcarson@post-dispatch.com Photo - Jhoana Rios
and Derek Main exchange business cards after a networking meeting for
entrepreneurs at the St. Louis region's Hispanic Chamber of Commerce. The group
includes immigrants and longtime St. Louis residents and is designed to
encourage the growth of Hispanic businesses.  Photo by David Carson o
dcarson@post-dispatch.com Carlos Dominguez, owner of Carniceria Latino
Americana, a Mexican grocery and restaurant on Cherokee Street, attends a
meeting of the Cherokee Street Latino Business Owners Association regarding
plans for a large festival on Cherokee on Sept. 11 and 12 to celebrate Mexico's
bicentennial.

DOCUMENT-TYPE: SERIES

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                  Copyright 2010 St. Louis Post-Dispatch, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              111 of 137 DOCUMENTS


                       St. Louis Post-Dispatch (Missouri)

                            September 6, 2010 Monday
                                 THIRD EDITION

Mexican immigrants enjoy 'American' picnic ST. LOUIS IMMIGRATION

BYLINE: -Philip Dine St. Louis Post-Dispatch

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. A7

LENGTH: 207 words

DATELINE: 0


Cultural dissonance was in full display here at the first annual Mexican picnic
in St. Louis.

Hundreds of Hispanic immigrants, mostly Mexicans, were enjoying a Sunday
afternoon at a park in Creve Coeur, playing volleyball - many clearly learning
as they play - and eating hamburgers.

"That's not normal for us," says Cecilia Velasquez, who organized the event.

So why are they doing it?

"People are living here now, so we have to start living the culture you have
here," she says. "We are trying to do what the Americans do. We don't want the
Americans to see us as having our own little culture, a little Mexico inside the
United States."

At the same time, she adds, Mexicans need to retain important elements such as
family values or having the children stay home until they're married.

Originally from Mexico, she has been in Alton and then St. Louis about a decade.
She is editor of a local Spanish newspaper, Red Latina, and host of a
Spanish-language radio program.

"We are the first generation of Hispanic immigrants. Most of our American
friends don't know how to deal with Hispanics. We are new here. Or maybe they
don't see us, because we are working in yards, on roofs, in restaurants.
Everybody sees one here, one there, but never together."

LOAD-DATE: September 6, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: SERIES

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                  Copyright 2010 St. Louis Post-Dispatch, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              112 of 137 DOCUMENTS


                       St. Louis Post-Dispatch (Missouri)

                            October 18, 2010 Monday
                                 THIRD EDITION

United Way seeks boost by courting immigrants Target of nearly $1 million is set
for group here.

BYLINE: BY DOUG MOORE o dmoore@post-dispatch.com > 314-340-8125

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. A1

LENGTH: 884 words

DATELINE: 0


ST. LOUIS - The United Way of Greater St. Louis is finding that the best way to
bring donors together is to set them apart.

As it continues to reach new people willing to give, the nonprofit group has
created societies for African-Americans, women, young leaders, retirees and
wealthy givers. Doing so has allowed the United Way to expand its fundraising
reach during stingy economic times.

Now, as the organization seeks to raise $68 million in its annual campaign, it's
zeroing in on an untapped population of potential donors - immigrants.

Just a year after forming the Multicultural Leadership Society, the United Way
hopes to show that the region's newest residents are capable of donating nearly
$1 million a year.

Last year, the multicultural society, with 455 members, gave nearly $800,000.
The goal this year is to increase that amount by at least 10 percent.

"We really think the potential is there," said Arindam Kar, an attorney with
Bryan Cave and chairman of the Multicultural Leadership Society.

The society is the first of its kind among United Way agencies nationwide.
Reaching out to minorities, especially immigrants, "is a very pragmatic approach
for United Way to expand its donor base," Kar said.

For many new Americans, philanthropy is foreign.

"A lot of us come from countries where the concept of monetary giving does not
exist," said Ninoska Clarkin, a native of Bolivia who works as a department
leader in the technology division at Edward Jones. "There is a focus on basic
needs. We are thinking: 'Where are we going to eat? How are we going to
survive?' This is new and very exciting. So many of us are now asking: 'How can
we give back to a country that has opened their arms? How can I say thank you in
my own way?'"

Affinity groups, as they are often called in the nonprofit world, are designed
to reach out to a particular demographic to get them engaged in giving. But the
groups also are designed to build relationships so the agency better understands
the community and its needs.

In creating the Multicultural Leadership Society, the United Way teamed with
large companies such as Edward Jones, Monsanto and Wells Fargo, each with its
own diversity program. They were brought to the table along with some of the
agencies that are typically served by United Way.

Merry Mosbacher, a general partner at Edward Jones and former chairwoman of the
Women's Leadership Society, said there are benefits in creating "subsets of
donors."

Doing so creates a sense of belonging and brings together in a smaller setting
people with common values, she said.

Orvin Kimbrough, senior vice president of United Way of Greater St. Louis, said
the groups are building relationships that did not exist before.

"United Way is a very large organization in terms of the number of donors who
support us across the region," Kimbrough said. "But we want our donors to feel a
sense of connection to us. Our affinity strategy is designed to do that. By
creating smaller groups, we can be very intentional about engaging pockets of
individuals who have not been historically connected to United Way."

Deborah Patterson, president of Monsanto Fund, the chemical company's
philanthropic arm, said a similar effort with African-Americans has been
successful.

"Part of the reason for establishing the African-American leadership initiative
was to ensure that people of African-American heritage understood what the
United Way was providing to our community," Patterson said. "It was as much
about awareness as it was us making sure that we're being supportive of our
community."

The African-American Society was formed in 1994 and has grown to 826 members. In
15 years, society members have given about $21 million to United Way.

"Culturally, there's a practice of supporting your place of worship, and so what
we wanted to do is say: 'Here's another relevant avenue, an organization that
you should be supporting,'" Patterson said. "Much to my surprise, lots of people
were not aware of United Way's work in the African-American community."

United Way of Greater St. Louis provides funding to 179 health and human service
agencies in 16 counties in Missouri and Illinois. The agency has set $68 million
as its fundraising goal this year, the highest in a decade, and at a time when
giving is down nationally.

According to the Center on Philanthropy at Indiana University, charitable
contributions fell about 3 percent to just under $304 billion in 2009, down from
$315 billion for 2008.

United Way officials say the bad economy hits the poor hardest so the need for
services continues to rise.

Affinity groups are catching on. In 2004, 94 United Way agencies had affinity
groups. Last year, that number grew to 178.

"No matter what language you speak, what background you come from, at end of the
day, we all want the same thing," Clarkin said. "Good families, a good
education, a good job and for those around you to have the same opportunities.
Finding a way to give back does that."

Patterson said expanding the message on the benefits of giving is essential to
groups such as United Way continuing to be able to provide assistance.

"Philanthropy is a learned behavior," Patterson said. "You have to actually
teach it to your children. Reaching out across all the segments of our community
can only make our community stronger."

LOAD-DATE: October 19, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC:  Photo by David Carson    o  dcarson@post-dispatch.com Terry Hu (left)
and Cindy Chen (center) talk with Jeanne Layton during a fundraising fashion
show and silent auction recently for the United Way at the Chase Park Plaza.
"In China there are not so many people involved (in fundraising). People help
their family in China; it's more organized here," said Chen.  All three work at
Monsanto.

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                  Copyright 2010 St. Louis Post-Dispatch, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              113 of 137 DOCUMENTS


                       St. Louis Post-Dispatch (Missouri)

                            October 25, 2010 Monday
                                 FIRST EDITION

Noncitizen vets face deportation over crimes

BYLINE: By JULIANA BARBASSA o Associated Press

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. A9

LENGTH: 623 words

DATELINE: 0


SAN FRANCISCO - When Rohan Coombs joined the Marine Corps, he never thought one
day he would be locked up in an immigration detention center and facing
deportation from the country he had vowed to defend.

Coombs, 43, born in Jamaica, immigrated to the United States legally as a child
with his family. He signed up to serve his adopted nation for six years - first
in Japan and the Philippines, then in the Persian Gulf during the first war with
Iraq.

As many as 8,000 noncitizens enlist in the U.S. armed forces every year and
serve alongside American troops. As of May 2010, there were 16,966 noncitizens
on active duty. The military does not allow illegal immigrants to enlist.

If noncitizens die while serving, they are given citizenship and a military
funeral. If they live and get in trouble with the law, as Coombs did, they can
get caught in the net of a 1996 immigration law that greatly expanded the list
of crimes for which noncitizens can be deported.

Now advocates of noncitizen servicemen and women are trying to change that.
Attorneys are taking cases such as Coombs' to court, arguing that an immigrant
who serves in the armed forces should be considered a U.S. national and
protected from deportation.

Rep. Bob Filner, D-Calif., chairman of the House Veterans' Affairs Committee, is
looking into potential changes to the law so immigrants who serve in the
military can avoid deportation.

"You come back from Iraq or Afghanistan today, you have put yourself on the line
for this country," said Filner. "An incredible number of kids come back with an
injury or illness that puts them in trouble with the law. To simply have these
people deported is not a good way to thank them for their service."

Advocates estimate that thousands of veterans have been deported or are in
detention. Government officials say they have no tally but plan to begin
tracking the numbers.

Coombs spent 10 months in the Persian Gulf and lost friends to combat, he said.
After the war, he felt depressed and anxious. His family was far away in New
York. He got involved with drugs, and he got caught.

In 1992, he was court-martialed for possession of cocaine and marijuana with the
intent to distribute, and was given 18 months of confinement and a dishonorable
discharge. In 2008, he was busted for selling marijuana. He spent eight months
in state prison.

U.S. Immigration and Customs Enforcement found that his convictions made him
eligible for deportation, and he was turned over to ICE after serving his
sentence. He has been held in a San Diego immigration detention center for 22
months and is appealing to the 9th U.S. Circuit Court of Appeals.

On the other side of the country, Dardar Paye is appealing his deportation case
to the U.S. District Court for the Middle District of Pennsylvania.

Paye came to the U.S. from war-torn Liberia as a 13-year-old. He joined the Army
in 1998, serving in Kuwait and then in a NATO peacekeeping mission in Kosovo. He
returned to New Jersey, where his family lives, to spend another year and a half
with the Army National Guard.

In 2008, he was convicted of six weapons-related offenses, including two
involving firearms dealing, and served time in federal prison. Now, like Coombs,
he is facing deportation.

The military has started to offer a fast-track to citizenship to immigrants
currently serving. Now, most joining the Army can expect to be citizens by the
end of basic training. Other branches are expected to join the effort by the end
of the year. That doesn't extend to those who have already served, such as Paye
and Coombs.

"If I had died," said Coombs, they would have made me a citizen, given me a
military funeral, and given the flag to my mom. But I didn't die. Here I am. I
just want another chance."

LOAD-DATE: October 25, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC:  Coombs  In this Oct. 14, 2010 photo, military veteran Dardar Paye sits
in his family's home in Maplewood, N.J. (AP Photo/Mel Evans) AP  Coombs Served
in Persian Gulf  In this Oct. 14, 2010 photo, military veteran Dardar Paye sits
in his family's home in Maplewood, N.J. (AP Photo/Mel Evans) AP

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                  Copyright 2010 St. Louis Post-Dispatch, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              114 of 137 DOCUMENTS


                       St. Louis Post-Dispatch (Missouri)

                            November 5, 2010 Friday
                                 THIRD EDITION

Friends doubt Somali is terrorist

BYLINE: BY TIM O'NEIL o toneil@post-dispatch.com > 314-340-8132

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. A2

LENGTH: 454 words

DATELINE: 0


st. louis - Friends of Mohamud Abdi Yusuf, a Somalian refugee and airport
cabdriver who is accused of funneling money to terrorists back home, said
Thursday the federal case is the result of misunderstanding.

"I don't believe in a million years that he is a terrorist," Ibrahim Noor, a
fellow Somalian immigrant, said outside the federal courthouse downtown. "He is
a decent guy."

Inside, a federal prosecutor and a public defender argued over keeping Yusuf,
30, in jail indefinitely. Yusuf was arrested Monday on an indictment alleging
that he collected and wired about $6,000 to al-Shabaab, an Islamist group that
is trying to overthrow the shaky government of his impoverished east African
country. The U.S. government declared al-Shabaab a terrorist organization in
2008.

The indictment alleges Yusuf used aliases to send the money and code words
during wiretapped conversations in an effort to conceal the scheme. He was
charged along with a man in Minneapolis and another who is believed to be in
Kenya. Prosecutors said they don't believe Yusuf has any co-conspirators within
St. Louis' small Somalian community of about 2,000.

Jim Hacking, an immigration lawyer who has represented Yusuf before, joined Noor
outside the courthouse. Hacking called the charge "a huge misunderstanding" and
said Yusuf faithfully wires his money to his wife and other relatives in a
refugee camp in Kenya, which borders Somalia.

"He has told me on many occasions that he is not political. He has no connection
to al-Shabaab," Hacking said.

He said Yusuf came to the United States in 2001 as a refugee from Somalia's war
and applied for citizenship in 2006. For much of his time here, he drove a cab
at Lambert-St. Louis International Airport, as do many Somalian immigrants.

On Thursday, the Metropolitan Taxicab Commission suspended Yusuf's license
because of the charge. Director Ron Klein says Yusuf had been a cabbie for seven
years.

In the hearing before U.S. Magistrate Terry Adelman, assistant U.S. Attorney
Matthew Drake argued for continued detention because, he said, Yusuf spoke
during a wiretapped conversation of heading for Canada. Drake also said Yusuf
used his legal name to wire money to his wife, but aliases to send money to an
agent for al-Shabaab.

Public defender Nanci McCarhy, arguing for release on bond, said Yusuf had
spoken of seeking Canadian citizenship if he can't become an American. And she
said he and friends use many nicknames in their culture.

An interpreter standing with Yusuf translated the proceedings for him and his
conversation with McCarthy. Adelman said he would rule later. Yusuf did not
speak during the hearing.

Although prosecutors said Yusuf lives in St. Louis, friends said his home is in
St. Ann.

LOAD-DATE: November 5, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                  Copyright 2010 St. Louis Post-Dispatch, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              115 of 137 DOCUMENTS


                       St. Louis Post-Dispatch (Missouri)

                           November 6, 2010 Saturday
                                 THIRD EDITION

Deportation delayed, for now Scott Jones is freed as abruptly as he was arrested
but still faces return to Canada.

BYLINE: BY STEPHEN DEERE o sdeere@post-dispatch.com > 314-340-8116

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. A1

LENGTH: 918 words

DATELINE: 0


ST. LOUIS - Scott Jones thought the early morning pounding on his door in August
was a friend playing a joke.

But then out came the handcuffs, and before he knew what was happening,
Immigration and Customs Enforcement agents were arresting him in the living room
of his Park Hills, Mo., mobile home. His wife and four kids looked on.

Jones was charged with being in the country unlawfully.

For four months, Jones, 33, sat in a jail cell while the government tried to
deport him to Canada - a country he says he hasn't seen since he was 6 weeks
old.

On Friday, ICE released him with little explanation.

As he walked away from the Robert A. Young federal building in downtown St.
Louis, Jones held his 3-year-old daughter, Jocelyn, and whispered in her ear.

"I love you," he said. "I've missed you so much."

It's a perplexing case involving paternity tests and 20-year-old court records.
Felony convictions from a decade ago only compound Jones' problems.

ICE officials refused to comment on the case beyond a two-sentence statement
Friday confirming Jones' release and that his removal charges are still pending.

Jones' attorneys fees and inability to work for the past few months have
exhausted the family savings.

"I'm absolutely broke now," said Jones, who owns a small roofing company. "I'm
scared I'm just going to run out of money and they are going to send me to
Canada, and I won't have anything but the clothes on my back."

Born in Canada

All Yvonne Clark wanted to do was get far away from a bad relationship.

She wasn't even from Canada. She had immigrated to the U.S. from Scotland 10
years earlier and become a permanent U.S. resident.

Saskatchewan was just a place where she thought she could recover from a divorce
from Byron Jones, the man she says was Scott's father.

"That was about as far north as I could run," she said.

Clark settled in the small Canadian town of Regina while pregnant with Scott.
She made a living cleaning apartments.

When her son was born, she didn't list Byron Jones as the father on the birth
certificate, fearing it might reveal her whereabouts.

But he found her anyway, and six weeks after Scott was born, Byron Jones
persuaded his former wife to get back together.

When the couple crossed the border, no one questioned the citizenship of her
newborn infant, Clark said.

"I just automatically thought Scott was an American," she said.

Scott Jones never had a problem getting a Social Security card, drivers license
or employment, he said. Questions of citizenship didn't come up during multiple
convictions in Arkansas in 1998 or in Missouri in 2000. Jones received probation
in both states. Since 2000, court records show he has only been charged with
traffic offenses.

His citizenship wasn't an issue until 2006, when Jones broke his back in an ATV
accident. When he applied for Medicaid, he was turned down because the
government claimed he wasn't a citizen.

In 2007, Jones filed an application with U.S. Citizenship and Immigration
Services. It was denied because the government said Jones failed to prove that
Byron Jones was his father. He heard nothing more about his status until ICE
agents showed up at his door three years later.

"To come in here and treat him like a terrorist is absurd," said Jones' wife,
Stacie.

Jones' attorney, Raymond Bolourtchi, said if his client hadn't filled out the
application for citizenship, ICE probably wouldn't have been alerted to his
presence in the country.

"It's just the government's continued effort to gather all the noncitizens with
criminal convictions," Bolourtchi said. "He just put himself on the map."

PROVING KINSHIP

Proving Byron Jones is Scott Jones' father - for the purpose of citizenship -
isn't as simple as a paternity test.

But Scott's family convinced Jones, of Wichita, Kan., to take one in September.
The results showed a 99.9 percent likelihood of paternity.

Bolourtchi also uncovered a 1980 court order regarding Byron Jones' child
support payments for Scott Jones; proof, the attorney said, that Scott was
legally Jones' son.

Still, the Department of Homeland Security is arguing for Jones' deportation.
According to court documents, the government's attorney claims Jones still needs
the original court order for child support.

Bolourtchi has been unable to locate it. He doesn't know why.

"I wish I knew," he said.

A TRIP DOWNTOWN

Scott Jones' release from jail came almost as suddenly as his arrest.

He had been detained in the Montgomery County Jail, which serves as a federal
immigration and detention facility. Jones requested bond, he said, but was
denied repeatedly.

Then at 5 a.m. on Friday, a jail employee told Jones he was going to the federal
building in downtown St. Louis. Jones wondered if he was about to be sent to
Canada. He rode in a van with five men who were about to be deported to Mexico,
he said.

About a half hour later, he learned he would be freed - at least for now.

"They said it was coming from higher up the chain of command," Jones said.

His release came two days after the Post-Dispatch sent ICE spokeswoman Gail
Montenegro an inquiry about Jones' case. She declined to answer questions about
his release.

Jones noted that he still faces deportation charges. He has a court date Dec. 6.

But on Friday he just was grateful to see his family. His wife picked him up
with their youngest daughter, and he planned on getting his other three children
out of school.

Next week, he plans to get back to roofing.

"I need to take care of my family," he said. "I've missed like four roofs since
I've been in here."

LOAD-DATE: November 9, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC:  Photos by Erik M. Lunsford  o  elunsford@post-dispatch.com   Scott
Jones leaves the Robert A. Young Federal Building Friday with his wife, Stacie,
and daughter Jocelyn. Jones, 33, who was born in Canada, was charged in August
for being in the country unlawfully.  Scott Jones heads home with his family
Friday to Park Hills, Mo. Jones' citizenship became an issue when he applied for
Medicaid in 2006.

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                  Copyright 2010 St. Louis Post-Dispatch, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              116 of 137 DOCUMENTS


                       St. Louis Post-Dispatch (Missouri)

                            November 7, 2010 Sunday
                                 FIRST EDITION

Tangled case ends in freedom, for now Request for Medicaid alerted officials to
man who was born in Canada; he has fought deportation for months.

BYLINE: BY STEPHEN DEERE o sdeere@post-dispatch.com > 314-340-8116

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. A22

LENGTH: 907 words

DATELINE: 0


ST. LOUIS - Scott Jones thought the early morning pounding on his door in August
was a friend playing a joke.

But then out came the handcuffs, and before he knew what was happening,
Immigration and Customs Enforcement agents were arresting him in his Park Hills,
Mo., mobile home. His wife and four kids looked on.

Jones was charged with being in the country unlawfully.

For four months, Jones, 33, sat in a jail cell while the government tried to
deport him to Canada - a country he says he hasn't seen since he was 6 weeks
old.

On Friday, ICE released him with little explanation.

As he walked away from the Robert A. Young federal building in downtown St.
Louis, Jones held his 3-year-old daughter, Jocelyn, and whispered in her ear.

"I love you," he said. "I've missed you so much."

It's a perplexing case involving paternity tests and 20-year-old court records.
Felony convictions from a decade ago only compound Jones' problems.

ICE officials refused to comment on the case beyond a two-sentence statement
Friday confirming Jones' release and that his removal charges are still pending.

Jones' attorneys fees and inability to work for the past few months have
exhausted the family savings.

"I'm absolutely broke now," said Jones, who owns a small roofing company. "I'm
scared I'm just going to run out of money and they are going to send me to
Canada, and I won't have anything but the clothes on my back."

Born in Canada

All Yvonne Clark wanted to do was get far away from a bad relationship.

She wasn't even from Canada. She had immigrated to the U.S. from Scotland 10
years earlier and become a permanent U.S. resident.

Saskatchewan was just a place where she thought she could recover from a divorce
from Byron Jones, the man she says was Scott's father. "That was about as far
north as I could run," she said.

Clark settled in the small Canadian town of Regina while pregnant with Scott.
She made a living cleaning apartments.

When her son was born, she didn't list Byron Jones on the birth certificate,
fearing it might reveal her whereabouts.

But he found her anyway, and six weeks after Scott was born, Byron Jones
persuaded his former wife to get back together.

When the couple crossed the border, no one questioned the citizenship of her
newborn, Clark said.

"I just automatically thought Scott was an American," she said.

Scott Jones never had a problem getting a Social Security card, drivers license
or employment, he said. Questions of citizenship didn't come up during multiple
convictions in Arkansas in 1998 or in Missouri in 2000. Jones received probation
in both states. Since 2000, court records show he has only been charged with
traffic offenses.

His citizenship wasn't an issue until 2006, when Jones broke his back in an ATV
accident. When he applied for Medicaid, he was turned down because the
government claimed he wasn't a citizen.

In 2007, Jones filed an application with U.S. Citizenship and Immigration
Services. It was denied because the government said Jones failed to prove that
Byron Jones was his father. He heard nothing more about his status until ICE
agents showed up at his door three years later.

"To come in here and treat him like a terrorist is absurd," said Jones' wife,
Stacie.

Jones' attorney, Raymond Bolourtchi, said if his client hadn't filled out the
application for citizenship, ICE probably wouldn't have been alerted to his
presence in the country.

"It's just the government's continued effort to gather all the noncitizens with
criminal convictions," Bolourtchi said. "He just put himself on the map."

PROVING KINSHIP

Proving Byron Jones is Scott Jones' father, for the purpose of citizenship,
isn't as simple as a paternity test.But Scott's family convinced Jones, of
Wichita, Kan., to take one in September. The results showed a 99.9 percent
likelihood of paternity.

Bolourtchi also uncovered a 1980 court order regarding Byron Jones' child
support payments for Scott Jones; proof, the attorney said, that Scott was
legally Jones' son.

Still, the Department of Homeland Security is arguing for Jones' deportation.
According to court documents, the government's attorney claims Jones still needs
the original court order for child support.

Bolourtchi has been unable to locate it. He doesn't know why.

A TRIP DOWNTOWN

Scott Jones' release from jail came almost as suddenly as his arrest.

He had been detained in the Montgomery County Jail, which serves as a federal
immigration and detention facility. Jones requested bond, he said, but was
denied repeatedly.

Then at 5 a.m. on Friday, a jail employee told Jones he was going to the federal
building in downtown St. Louis. Jones wondered if he was about to be sent to
Canada. He rode in a van with five men who were about to be deported to Mexico,
he said.

About a half-hour later, he learned he would be freed - at least for now.

"They said it was coming from higher up the chain of command," Jones said.

His release came two days after the Post-Dispatch sent ICE spokeswoman Gail
Montenegro an inquiry about Jones' case. She declined to answer questions about
his release.

Jones noted that he still faces deportation charges. He has a court date Dec. 6.

But on Friday he just was grateful to see his family. His wife picked him up
with their youngest daughter, and he planned on getting his other three children
out of school.

This week, he plans to get back to roofing.

"I need to take care of my family," he said. "I've missed like four roofs since
I've been in here."

LOAD-DATE: November 7, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC:  Erik M. Lunsford o elunsford@post-dispatch.com  Erik M. Lunsford o
elunsford@post-dispatch.com  Scott Jones, who has been fighting deportation to
Canada, is freed Friday morning from the Robert A. Young federal building
downtown. He leaves with his wife, Stacie, and daughter Jocelyn, 3.

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                  Copyright 2010 St. Louis Post-Dispatch, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              117 of 137 DOCUMENTS


                       St. Louis Post-Dispatch (Missouri)

                           November 16, 2010 Tuesday
                                 THIRD EDITION

Justice for Carlos Our view o The Missouri Supreme Court must reunite a child
with his immigrant mother.

SECTION: EDITORIAL; Pg. A12

LENGTH: 1053 words

DATELINE: 0


The Missouri Supreme Court soon will decide the fate of Carlos, a 4-year-old boy
who has lived with adoptive parents in Carthage, Mo., since before his first
birthday.

Carlos has been victimized twice. He was made a refugee in his own land by a
federal immigration system that heedlessly cut him off from his mother. He then
was betrayed by a Missouri court that failed to provide basic due process in his
adoption proceeding.

The Supreme Court heard arguments in In Re the Adoption of C.M.B.R. last week.
The court's duties are clear:

It must restore the rule of law to these proceedings. It must begin a careful
process of reuniting Carlos with his mother. And it must work to minimize the
damage done and ensure that such tragedies do not recur.

Carlos was born in the United States in October 2006. His mother, Encarnación
Bail Romero, a Guatemalan, had entered the country illegally and was working at
George's Inc., a poultry processing plant in Barry County.

In May 2007, Ms. Bail Romero and 135 other people suspected of being
undocumented workers were swept up in an Immigration and Customs Enforcement
raid at the plant. Ms. Bail Romero was arrested and charged with using a false
identity. As she sat in jail, her brother and sister cared for Carlos. Jennifer
and Oswaldo Velasco, a couple working as baby sitters, looked after him on
weekdays.

The Velascos quietly set in motion the process that led to Carlos' adoption. In
October 2007, apparently without his mother's consent, the couple handed Carlos
to Seth and Melinda Moser, a Carthage couple who, the Velascos knew, wanted to
adopt Carlos. The Mosers filed a petition in the Circuit Court of Jasper County
seeking an order of adoption.

Missouri law imposes layers of procedural safeguards in adoption proceedings
designed to promote the interests of children and protect the rights of parents.

Judge David C. Dally either was ignorant of these requirements or utterly
indifferent to them.

Only certain parties may place a child for adoption under Missouri law: the
child's parents, the state Children's Division, a licensed child placement
agency or an attorney, physician or member of the clergy acting as an
intermediary for the parents. Baby sitters aren't on that list.

A written report detailing the child's status and circumstance also is required
by law to be supplied to the court before a change in custody. No such report
was submitted in this case.

Parents have a right to reasonable notice of proceedings that affect the custody
or status of their children. They are entitled to the assistance of counsel. In
Carlos' adoption proceedings, these rights were ignored.

Ms. Bail Romero speaks only Spanish. But the court's notice of Carlos' custody
hearing, issued one day before the hearing, was written only in English. The
record is unclear whether it even was sent to Ms. Bail Romero.

She wasn't present at the custody hearing. No lawyer was appointed to represent
her. No one appeared on her behalf.

The court did appoint a lawyer to represent Ms. Bail Romero two months after
Carlos' custody hearing. But there's no evidence the lawyer took any steps on
her behalf or even contacted her.

Another lawyer appeared for Ms. Bail Romero 10 months later, at a hearing to
approve the adoption. This lawyer had not been appointed by the court or hired
by Ms. Bail Romero. He had been hired by the adoptive parents.

The Mosers alleged that Ms. Bail Romero had "abandoned" Carlos during the 60
days before their taking custody. In fact, she was in jail and soon would begin
a two-year prison sentence, after which it was expected that she would be
deported.

Under Missouri law, incarceration does not amount to child abandonment. There is
evidence that Ms. Bail Romero emphatically opposed the adoption and thought
Carlos was being cared for by family members during this period.

What's most curious - and damning - about the case is how meager the record is
on the question of Ms. Bail Romero's parental rights. It was as if she were a
non-person.

The trial court knew almost nothing about Ms. Bail Romero or her family. There
was no formal statement from Ms. Bail Romero or investigation into how she might
stay connected with Carlos while she served out her prison sentence - perhaps
with help from her family or a foster family.

That's how courts routinely handle the custody of children whose custodial
parent is incarcerated. In this case, the trial judge, state child welfare
officials, juvenile officers and the guardian appointed for Carlos did nothing.
They did not even explore the possibility of keeping mother and child united.

Indeed, the adoption was approved after a hearing that lasted less than two
hours. Neither Ms. Bail Romero nor any member of her family was present. The
lawyer hired by the adoptive parents to represent Ms. Bail Romero did not appeal
the ruling.

Carlos' adoption was so deeply flawed that the Supreme Court has no alternative
but to set it aside and restore Ms. Bail Romero's parental rights.

That doesn't mean Carlos should be immediately taken away from his adoptive
parents. It simply means that a carefully planned and scrupulously monitored
process of reunification must begin.

The proceedings should be overseen by a specially appointed judge, one with
experience in helping unite children long separated from their parents.

For now, Ms. Bail Romero is in the United States lawfully. Her deportation has
been stayed while she pursues reunification with her son. Together, Missouri's
courts, Ms. Bail Romero and the Mosers must work to achieve justice for Carlos.

It falls to the Missouri Supreme Court to bring some clarity child custody
matters related to undocumented immigrants. Such matters should have been part
of a comprehensive reform of federal immigration law, but Congress has been
unable to stop posturing on the issue long enough to pass one.

Many families living in the United States include a parent who is an
undocumented immigrant and a child who is a U.S. citizen. When immigrant parents
are arrested and separated from these children, there's no guarantee that
federal officials will coordinate with the state courts that are responsible for
child welfare.

Missouri courts must hold themselves accountable and establish systems to meet
the special needs of undocumented immigrant parents and their children.

LOAD-DATE: November 17, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC:  Photo by Mo. News Horizon - Romero

DOCUMENT-TYPE: EDITORIAL

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                  Copyright 2010 St. Louis Post-Dispatch, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              118 of 137 DOCUMENTS


                       St. Louis Post-Dispatch (Missouri)

                            November 16, 2008 Sunday
                                 FOURTH EDITION

Obama aunt among many who defy deportation

BYLINE: By Denise Lavoie The Associated Press

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. A5

LENGTH: 613 words


BOSTON - Zeituni Onyango came to the United States seeking asylum from her
native Kenya but was turned down and ordered to leave the country in 2004. Four
years later, she is still here. And her nephew is about to become president of
the United States.

Onyango's family connection to Barack Obama has thrown a spotlight on a
phenomenon many Americans might find startling: An estimated half-million
immigrants are living in the United States in defiance of deportation orders.

U.S. Immigration and Customs Enforcement has stepped up efforts to catch
fugitive aliens, as they are known, and now has about 100 "fugitive operations
teams" around the country. In the last year, the teams have made 34,000 arrests,
more than double the number two years ago. But 560,000 such immigrants still are
in the U.S.

Fugitive aliens include people who, like Obama's aunt, sought asylum in the
United States but were rejected and ordered to leave the country. Others were
caught entering or living in this country illegally, and failed to show at
deportation hearings.

Often, illegal immigrants who have been issued deportation notices are given a
certain amount of time to get out of the country. They are not forcibly put
aboard a plane; these deportations essentially operate on the honor system.

Generally, if these immigrants stay out of trouble - if they don't get pulled
over by police or swept up in a workplace raid, for example - they are in little
danger of being thrown out of the country.

That galls many immigration reform advocates, who say the practice breeds
disrespect for the law and emboldens immigrants to sneak in and stay.

"We are strong believers of enforcement of our immigration laws, and this is a
priority area for getting the message across to this country, that if they've
been convicted of committing crimes or if they have been ordered deported, that
they will be apprehended if they try to hide and continue to stay in the
country," said Jack Martin of the Federation for American Immigration Reform.

Government officials say that they do the best they can with the money and
manpower available to them, and that they focus on the most serious cases,
including those involving illegal immigrants who have committed crimes in this
country.

"ICE has taken tremendous steps at closing these cases and apprehending
fugitives," spokesman Richard Rocha said. "However, we prioritize our efforts on
egregious violators and criminal aliens."

Overall, an estimated 11 million illegal immigrants are living in the U.S. In
the past year, the government arrested and deported a record number of illegal
immigrants, nearly 350,000, according to ICE.

Critics of the agency complain of the government's former "catch and release"
policy along the border, in which non-Mexicans caught sneaking across were
released into this country with a date to appear for an immigration hearing.
Officials ended the practice in 2006. Now, these immigrants are held until their
hearings.

Advocates say many immigrants defy deportation orders because they have lived in
the United States for years, married, had children and put down roots in
communities.

"Is it worth going around with that feeling that you might be discovered? Or
packing up your entire family now and settling all your obligations in the
United States, buying airplane tickets for your family, moving back to a country
where you haven't lived for many years, where you are worried about how you are
going to find a job? There's another whole set of uncertainties," said Maureen
O'Sullivan, a Boston immigration lawyer.

Advocates say the only way to reduce the number of illegal immigrants is to
overhaul the nation's immigration laws.

LOAD-DATE: November 16, 2008

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                  Copyright 2008 St. Louis Post-Dispatch, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              119 of 137 DOCUMENTS


                       St. Louis Post-Dispatch (Missouri)

                           November 27, 2008 Thursday
                                 THIRD EDITION

Thankful for safety and the hope of a better life For immigrants, Thanksgiving
is a 'beautiful holiday'

BYLINE: By Steve Giegerich ST. LOUIS POST-DISPATCH

SECTION: METRO; Pg. C1

LENGTH: 553 words


ST. LOUIS - They came here to escape oppression, seek a better life and carve
out a piece of prosperity in a land which, an economic downturn aside, remains
more prosperous than Burundi, Myanmar, Somali, Iraq and the other countries they
left behind.

And on the fourth Wednesday of November, with a one-day head start, they
gathered over turkey, biriyani (a rice dish), apple and blueberry pie and the
all-American (for better or worse) staple - green bean and mushroom casserole -
to give thanks for what they have.

Sofia Habonimana may be in the embryonic stages of understanding the nation she
migrated to last year from a Tanzanian refugee center. But even translated from
Swahili, her comprehension of the meaning of the quiet occasion that unfolded
Wednesday afternoon at St. Louis Public Schools' English Speakers of Other
Languages Center, was nothing short of pitch-perfect.

"It is an opportunity to thank God that we are safe and that we are here
safely," Habonimana explained through a translator.

Habonimana, 43, took a troubled and circuitous route to St. Louis.

She fled Burundi for Tanzania in 1997, a sojourn that ended last year with
asylum in Missouri for Habonimana, her husband and five children.

Here, Habonimina found her way to the school district's English Speakers of
Other Languages facility where immigrant children, often in the company of their
parents, acclimate to the culture and the language of their newly adopted
nation.

The language barrier is just one of many difficult steps awaiting the immigrants
in the final stage of long journeys from far and wide.

Part and parcel with learning a new language, they say, is the search for
gainful employment and coming to terms with the violence that sometimes waits
outside their doorstep.

Still, said Adelaide Chiza, 45, who has spent virtually her entire life in
refugee centers in Rwanda and Tanzania after her forced exile from Burundi in
1972, America offers much to be thankful for.

"I feel at home here," the mother of seven pointed out in Swahili. "I have food
when I'm hungry and when I'm sick I can go to a hospital to get treatment."

Better yet, each November, Chiza's new country sets aside a day to give thanks
for all that and a lot more.

African countries commemorate many religious and national holidays, said
translator Habiba Ibrahim, a Kenyan immigrant, district social worker and recent
Washington University graduate fluent in five languages. "But no Thanksgiving,"
she smiled.

Nor, to Nahed Chapman's way of thinking, is any other U.S. holiday like
Thanksgiving.

"It's the only holiday we can all celebrate," said the administrator of the
English Speakers of Other Languages Center, who immigrated to the U.S. from
Egypt.

"It doesn't matter if you're Christian or Jewish or Muslim. I've been here 25
years and it's still the only holiday I really feel a part of."

A 35-year-old Jordanian and mother of four married to an Iraqi, Eiman Al-Kteb's
exactitude is the best measure of her glee at finally making it to the United
States.

She has lived here, Al-Kteb said in tentative English, precisely "two months and
20 days."

Her 21st day of her second month on American soil, Al-Kteb announced as she
pushed away from the table, will be an extension of the celebration that began
Wednesday afternoon.

"It's a beautiful holiday," Al-Kteb beamed.

LOAD-DATE: December 17, 2008

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC:  PHOTO - At the Central Visual and Performing Arts High School in St.
Louis Wednesday, Amina Chirango from Somalia prepares to eat a traditional
Thanksgiving meal with her son, Sheiknur Hassan, 3, and other families from the
English Speakers of Other Languages Center.  John L. White | Post-Dispatch
PHOTO - Brian Zimmerman (right), principal of Mann Elementary School, chats with
Habiba Ibrahim (left) from Kenya Wednesday before eating a Thanksgiving meal
with families from the English Speakers of Other Languages Center at the Central
Visual and Performing Arts High School in St. Louis.  John L. White |
Post-Dispatch

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                  Copyright 2008 St. Louis Post-Dispatch, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              120 of 137 DOCUMENTS


                       St. Louis Post-Dispatch (Missouri)

                          December 10, 2008 Wednesday
                                 SECOND EDITION

DIGEST

BYLINE: FROM NEWS SERVICES

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. A3

LENGTH: 570 words


TALLAHASSEE, FLA.

Governor seeks inquiry into graves near school

The Florida Department of Law Enforcement is investigating what lies beneath
more than 30 unidentified graves near a reform school where boys were abused in
the 1950s and '60s.

Florida Gov. Charlie Crist wrote the head of the law enforcement agency Tuesday,
asking authorities to determine the origin of the graves and whether any crimes
were committed.

A group of former inmates, now in their 60s, believe the graves contain the
bodies of boys who were beaten to death at the detention center. The men say
they were severely beaten when they were there.

MIAMI

U.S. has resumed deportations to Haiti

U.S. immigration authorities have resumed deportations to Haiti, ending a
three-month-plus reprieve of sending Haitians back to their storm-battered
country.

"We determined that it was appropriate to resume based on the circumstances in
Haiti," Nicole Navas, a spokeswoman with U.S. Immigration and Customs
Enforcement, said, declining to comment further.

The move to deport Haitians comes at a time when Haiti is still trying to
recover from back-to-back storms that heaped widespread devastation. The
tempests - two of them full-fledged hurricanes - left at least 800 people dead,
tens of thousands homeless, and caused $1 billion in damages.

ATLANTA

Cancer destined to be top killer, report says

Cancer will overtake heart disease as the world's top killer by 2010, part of a
trend that should more than double global cancer cases and deaths by 2030, the
World Health Organization said in a report released Tuesday.

Rising tobacco use in developing countries is believed to be a huge reason for
the shift, particularly in China and India, where 40 percent of the world's
smokers now live.

So is better diagnosing of cancer, along with the downward trend in infectious
diseases that used to be the world's leading killers.

WASHINGTON

Math, science scores improve for U.S. students

In math and science, American kids are doing better than people think, an
international study found. But some Asian countries have an edge in math that
just keeps growing.

U.S. students have made significant gains in math since 1995 and score above
average on international fourth- and eighth-grade tests in the subject,
according to a study released Tuesday.

However, the study reported dramatically higher math scores in five Asian
countries - Hong Kong, Singapore, Taiwan, Japan and Korea - than other countries
participating in the study.

Briefly

- Sen. Craig: The Minnesota Court of Appeals has turned down Sen. Larry Craig's
effort to undo his guilty plea to disorderly conduct in connection with a sex
sting, scuttling the Idaho Republican's argument that the plea wasn't valid
because he'd mailed it in.

- Plane crash: Both engines of a military jet fighter failed before the aircraft
crashed and burned in a residential area of San Diego Monday, killing four
people on the ground as it destroyed two houses, a congressional aide said
Tuesday.

- Officers charged: Three New York City police officers surrendered and were
charged with felonies Tuesday for an attack on a tattoo parlor worker who
authorities say was sodomized with a baton in a subway station.

- O.J. case: Four former O.J. Simpson co-defendants who took plea deals and
testified against the former football star were sentenced to probation Tuesday
for their roles in the gunpoint robbery of two sports memorabilia dealers.

LOAD-DATE: December 10, 2008

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: BRIEF

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                  Copyright 2008 St. Louis Post-Dispatch, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              121 of 137 DOCUMENTS


                       St. Louis Post-Dispatch (Missouri)

                          December 10, 2008 Wednesday
                                 SECOND EDITION

Kids beg Obama: Let dad stay in U.S. Facing deportation o Court has ordered
Stefan Lang back to Germany. All a mistake? o Ex-wife regrets sending letter
that triggered U.S. action.

BYLINE: By Heather Ratcliffe ST. LOUIS POST-DISPATCH

SECTION: METRO; Pg. C1

LENGTH: 1424 words


St. Louis - Melva Lang says she does not want her ex-husband thrown out of the
country.

She doesn't want it now and she didn't want it nine years ago, when a lovers'
spat inspired her to write a note that started a slow grind of the U.S.
immigration apparatus.

Friends and family describe Stefan Lang as honest, hard-working and the
full-time father not only of his daughter with Melva, but also of her daughter
from an earlier relationship.

Given family concerns about their mother and their grandparents' ability to step
in, the girls, ages 9 and 12, have sent letters begging President-elect Barack
Obama to intervene. They say they fear becoming wards of the state if their
father is deported to his native Germany.

"Why do kids not count?" wrote the 9-year-old daughter, Isabell.

Officials for the Immigration and Customs Enforcement agency don't dispute that
the deportation would cause heartache. They have no complaint about Lang, except
to say his paperwork is not in order. And when the wheels grind, they say, that
is what matters.

The paperwork says Lang must return home to Germany immediately - never mind
that it took three years for the bureaucracy to decide so, and six more for him
to find out about it.

And thus Lang, 37, a house painter who lives in Florissant, was in federal court
in St. Louis last week to plead with a judge for the right to appeal the
immigration decision and to remain here while he does.

"It was hard to believe at first. We were kind of in shock," Lang said in an
interview. "We're concerned our family is going to get ripped apart. It's a
feeling of despair and desperation."

Lawyers for the immigration agency argued three basic points in court:

- Melva Lang's letter nine years ago in effect removed her sponsorship of Stefan
Lang's U.S. residency.

- Lacking a sponsor, Stefan's status reverted to terms of a 90-day visit granted
in 1998 with no visa. And he has no right to appeal the decision to kick him out
of the country, the federal agency says.

- While he did seek a change in status about the time the 90 days expired, the
application was filed five days late.

U.S. District Judge Catherine Perry said she would rule later on whether to let
Stefan move ahead with his case. But if he wins with Perry, he still faces a
battle in immigration court.

"I don't want to lose my family," he said. "There is nothing that I want except
to be a good father and enjoy my children growing up."

Falling For American

Stefan Lang came to the U.S. around Christmas 1997 to visit his mother, who had
married an American and lives in the St. Louis area. While here, he met a woman
named Melva Dorsey and sparked a romance.

After returning to Germany, he wrote her letters and talked with her by phone.
In June 1998, officials allowed him to visit without a visa, so long as he left
within 90 days. They married that September.

On the day of the wedding, Stefan and Melva Lang said, they went to a lawyer and
signed a document seeking to adjust Stefan's immigration status. He insists it
was within the 90 days, but a government file stamp puts it five days late.

The couple moved in together and soon expected a baby.

Adjusting to their new life together was difficult for both, Stefan Lang said.
Turmoil grew until one day in January 1999, Melva sent immigration officials a
letter withdrawing her support of his "green card" authorization to stay.

She accused Stefan in the letter of moving out of the family home and no longer
living as her husband.

"She was upset and it was the best way of hurting me," Stefan said last week.
"She feels terrible about it. She wants the best for the kids and can't stand
the thought of me being sent away."

Melva said in an interview that she didn't mean what she wrote and tried to take
back the letter. She and Stefan claim that their attorney at the time told them
he filed a new petition for a green card, just in case.

In April 1999, three months after Melva sent the letter, the couple interviewed
with an immigration official. The inspector seemed satisfied with the their
answers and approved Stefan's application for residency, according to court
documents. The letter didn't come up.

Family Comes Apart

The family grew as Melva gave birth to their daughter, Isabell. But cracks in
their marriage also grew, until Melva moved out in 2001. She left behind both
her daughters for Stefan to raise.

He eventually filed for divorce, in 2004, and a court order gave them joint
custody of their daughter, with him as custodial parent. Although Stefan was not
the natural father of Melva's other daughter, Andy, he cared for her as his own.

He drove the girls to school every day and helped them with homework. He
enrolled them in Girl Scouts and attended their violin concerts.

"Mr. Lang is a valuable part of our school community as well as the
neighborhood," Terry Finn, a third-grade teacher at Commons Lane School in
Florissant, wrote in a letter filed in court as part of Lang's case.

Florissant police Sgt. Michael Layton, who is the DARE officer at the school,
said evidence of Stefan Lang's character can be found in his children.

"(They) are two of the most respectful, polite, well-behaved, and hard-working
students possible," he wrote. "Those positive traits were passed on to them by
the one parent who has been in their lives to influence them positively,
Stefan."

All the while, the paperwork continued moving through the immigration agency. In
2002, three years after Melva sent her letter, officials approved her request to
withdraw support of Stefan's green card. The card was revoked - even though an
immigration official had approved Stefan's paperwork three years earlier.

The couple's immigration attorney called them to say Stefan had legal trouble,
but they couldn't afford to pay him to sort it out. The matter went unresolved.

"I was really confused," Melva Lang said. "We did the best we could to fill out
all the paperwork. It was kind of like a maze, so we let it drop, out of pure
exhaustion."

They said they never received notice that Stefan must go. And, they say, they
didn't hear anything more on the matter for the next six years.

Then in August 2008, the government delivered a letter saying Stefan would be
deported.

Officials planned to put him on a plane, with no hearing first.

Because Stefan is accused of being here illicitly for more than one year, he
would not be allowed to visit the U.S. again for 10 years. Family members said
they could not afford to buy the children plane tickets to visit him in Germany.

Looking For Help

The family, crushed by the news, drafted letters to then-candidate Obama.

"Someone needs to care enough to help our daddy so we don't have to go into the
'system,' " wrote 12-year-old Andy Lang.

Melva and her family also threw their support behind Stefan.

"He's used his time here to grow, change and become a great dad," Melva said.
"He's really American now and has added a lot to his family and neighborhood. I
just don't really think he should have to leave. It would devastate our girls
and a whole lot of people."

In court, Stefan and Melva's father, Sherman Dorsey, testified that she has long
suffered with depression and that she has admitted to them she is not capable of
caring for the children. She did not testify.

Grandparents told the court they might be able to take in the girls if Stefan
left, but that health and economic issues would make it difficult.

Case Comes To Court

After getting the letter in August, Stefan hired a new attorney, Raymond
Bolourtchi, who stopped the deportation by filing in federal court for a
temporary restraining order. On Dec. 1, both sides made their arguments in
court.

Assistant U.S. Attorney Jane Lund acknowledged that the bureaucracy moved slowly
but said Stefan has no right to appeal.

"I can see where documents could get mixed up or didn't get to the right party,"
Lund said. "We believe this falls within the discretionary function of the"
Department of Homeland Security, the parent department of immigration agency.

In court documents, immigration officials insist that the government's interest
in upholding the law outweighs a hardship on the family.

Carl Rusnok, a spokesman for the immigration agency, declined to comment on the
case directly, but said, "If there is no enforcement, there is no point of the
law. We have to maintain the integrity of the system."

Bolourtchi argued in court that bureaucracy should not come before the interest
of children.

"Life moved on while the government was shuffling paperwork," Bolourtchi said.
"This is really about a father and his little girls."

LOAD-DATE: December 10, 2008

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES:  'We're concerned our family is going to get ripped apart.  It's a
feeling of despair and desperation'   -  Stefan Lang

GRAPHIC:  PHOTO - Isabell Lang, 9, amuses her father, Stefan Lang, as her half
sister Andy Dorsey (right) talks on the phone with friends in Florissant
recently. Lang, of Germany, who is raising both children, is fighting
deportation.  Dawn Majors | Post-Dispatch  PHOTO - In Florissant last week,
Stefan Lang talks with his daughter Isabell Lang, 9, while his stepdaughter Andy
Dorsey, 12, practices violin in the next room. Dawn Majors | Post-Dispatch

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                  Copyright 2008 St. Louis Post-Dispatch, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              122 of 137 DOCUMENTS


                       St. Louis Post-Dispatch (Missouri)

                             January 2, 2009 Friday
                                 THIRD EDITION

American dream via a taxi cab

BYLINE: REPPS HUDSON

SECTION: BUSINESS; Pg. D5

LENGTH: 971 words


Driving a cab is almost a stereotypical way for immigrants and refugees wanting
to get started in their new country to earn a living and put down roots. One who
has done so successfully is Ezezew Biru, who left Ethiopia as a teenager and now
runs a small taxicab company that is struggling against the system to get
larger. Despite his frustrations, Biru is a happy man with a growing family - he
just adopted three relatives from Ethiopia. We spoke in his small office at 4427
Geraldine Avenue in the city.

Ezezew Biru Position: Co-owner and operations manager, Metropolitan Taxicab
Corp. Age: 45 Career: After leaving his native Ethiopia at 19 in 1982, he worked
as a laborer in Khartoum, Sudan, until immigrating to the United States in 1987;
hotel worker in Washington, 1987-1988; factory worker and cab driver in St.
Louis, 1988-1995; founded Riverfront Cab Co., 1997; joined with fellow
Ethiopians to create Midwest Cab Co., 2001; which became Metropolitan Taxicab
Corp., 2004 Education: Studied computer science at St. Louis Community College
at Forest Park Personal: Lives with his wife, Meselu Shumye, and three boys and
three girls in St. Peters

How did you decide to own and operate a taxi company?

I was working as a part-time taxicab driver at the airport. Then I became a
full-time driver and went to school at St. Louis Community College. I saw how
the taxicab owners ran their companies. I looked at it and said, "I think I can
do better than this at the airport."

What would you do differently?

I have two-way radios, dispatching and having contract with various commercial
accounts. At the airport, we would wait in line for hours, get a trip and go
back to the airport and wait for hours again. While I was sitting, I was
thinking that if I spent more time looking for business, I would do better. At
the airport, you have only one door to get business.

If I am out, I can be reached by the public and do better business.

It wasn't easy to start up. We had to hire a lawyer to help us get permits.

Was that difficult?

Yes, it was. They have a system that has worked for many years for few huge
companies like County Cab, Laclede Cab, Yellow Cab. These companies didn't have
much business. Most of their cars were not in service. When we applied, those
people had permits they were not using. But we were trying to get started and we
didn't have any permits.

Did you have to do any favors to get your permits?

No, thank God, I am not such a person. That is not my lifestyle. But I had a
very good lawyer. They gave us permits for 20. My other partner got permits for
10. We merged before we started in business with 30.

How do you get the cars?

We buy cars, but mostly they are owned by the drivers. They are independent
contractors who work through our dispatching system.

What kind of cars do drivers favor?

I've always heard they like the Ford Crown Victoria. I like Dodge and Chrysler
minivans. I like the Crown Vic, also.

I've heard that you can get 200,000 to 300,000 miles out of these cars. Is that
right?

I had a '92 Crown Vic. I had almost 400,000 when it quit. It had over 100,000
when I bought it, and I keep maintaining it. You put in oil and do the tune-ups
and check it.

What can you expect to get out of a taxi if you take good care of it?

If it's a Crown Vic, 300,000 (miles) easily.

Aren't these former police cars that may have been run pretty hard already?

You have to check. I do this myself.

How did you line up customers?

We contracted with school districts to haul children (under the desegregation
plan).

Do you have commercial contracts?

We have contracts with some companies to take people to and from work sometimes.

Breaking into this business must be hard.

We are limited in advertising. We don't have enough cabs, so we cannot advertise
more.

Does it seem a little strange that there's a taxicab commission that acts as a
restraint of trade?

Yes. It is completely different than what I thought when I came here. The
taxicab commissioners are the owners of the largest companies. They put a cap on
(the number of permits I can have), so I cannot grow.

Is that the way it should be?

It shouldn't be, but it is. The taxicab commission is not strong by itself. But
the way they structure it, organize it. ... There is a big problem with the
taxicab commission. I don't think a lot of people know about it.

Does the same arrangement exist in New York or Chicago?

No, it's completely different. There, it is like a government agency.

Can you make a good living at this? You are making money off the fees you charge
the independent drivers, aren't you?

Thank God, I cannot complain. When we are hauling school children, our cars have
to be on time. If one breaks down, we have to get another one. There is a lot of
pressure. I say, let us put out more cabs so we are not limited by other cab
companies.

When did you leave Ethiopia?

I left a long time ago. I went to Sudan.

Did you leave because of the war in Ethiopia?

The war was creating a lot of problems. A lot of people were trying to get out
of the country.

What did you do in Sudan?

I was a laborer. My big goal while living in Sudan was to come to America. I was
happy because I knew I was not going to live there forever. I knew I was going
to come to America.

Did you come alone through normal immigration?

It took a long time. I had a relative here who was my sponsor. When I came here,
I did the same thing; I became a sponsor.

Why St. Louis?

Because of friends.

Was it hard to get your commercial drivers license and then learn the area?

The license was easy. Then I had to learn the hotels and big commercial areas.

Are you happy with your success?

Yes. When I compare where I came from, when I compare how I started, I am
satisfied.

What are your goals for your company?

To get more permits and more accounts and more advertising. We want to get
bigger.

reppshudson@msn.com

LOAD-DATE: January 2, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES:  Five minutes with o repps hudson

GRAPHIC:  PHOTO - Ezezew Biru was a laborer in Sudan who dreamed of coming to
America. He did, and in time helped create Metropolitan Taxicab.   PHOTO -
Ezezew Biru

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                  Copyright 2009 St. Louis Post-Dispatch, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              123 of 137 DOCUMENTS


                       St. Louis Post-Dispatch (Missouri)

                             January 9, 2009 Friday
                                 THIRD EDITION

NATIONAL DIGEST

BYLINE: FROM NEWS SERVICES

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. A2

LENGTH: 273 words


WASHINGTON

Mukasey ruling limits immigration rights

President George W. Bush's administration has decided that immigrants facing
deportation do not have an automatic right to an effective lawyer.

Attorney General Michael Mukasey says in a 33-page decision that the
Constitution does not entitle someone facing deportation to have his case
reopened based upon shoddy work by a lawyer. Immigrants rights groups say
Mukasey's decision rejects decades of established legal practice.

WASHINGTON

Stricter rules sought after Tennessee spill

Senate Democrats said Thursday they want stricter rules for toxic ash from
coal-fired power plants following a massive spill in Tennessee that has
threatened drinking water and caused health fears.

Officials from the Tennessee Valley Authority, which operates the plant in
Kingston, Tenn., promised senators and people affected by last month's
billion-gallon spill that the agency will clean up the sludge as quickly as
possible and work to compensate those who have lost property.

WASHINGTON

Bush's plea: Save 'No Child Left Behind'

President George W. Bush urged President-elect Barack Obama and the
Democratic-controlled Congress not to abandon the No Child Left Behind law,
arguing that to do so would "weaken a chance for a child to succeed in America."

The president marked the seventh anniversary of No Child Left Behind on Thursday
with remarks at General Philip Kearny School in Philadelphia. It was his final
policy address as president.

Briefly

- Obama wins: Congress officially declared Barack Obama the next president of
the United States after tallying Electoral College votes in a centuries old
tradition.

LOAD-DATE: January 9, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: BRIEF

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                  Copyright 2009 St. Louis Post-Dispatch, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              124 of 137 DOCUMENTS


                       St. Louis Post-Dispatch (Missouri)

                             August 24, 2009 Monday
                                 SECOND EDITION

DIGEST - WORLD

BYLINE: From news services

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. A15

LENGTH: 439 words

DATELINE: 0


U.S. flies illegal aliens direct to Mexico City

The U.S. government has begun flying illegal migrants caught in the Arizona
desert back to Mexico under a voluntary repatriation program. Mexico's Foreign
Relations Department says the twice-daily Tucson-to-Mexico City flights began
Friday. It said Sunday that the annual summer program would run through Sept.
28.

Authorities say the goal is to save lives and discourage repeat crossings by
transporting migrants closer to their homes in Mexico, instead of simply
deporting them across the border.

Siberian power plant death toll rises - Searchers on Sunday combed wreckage at
Russia's largest hydroelectric plant for six workers missing since an explosion
a week ago. Three more bodies were found, raising the death toll to at least 69.

The Aug. 17 blast at the Sayano-Shushenskaya dam and power plant in Siberia
underlines worries about Russia's decaying Soviet-era infrastructure and raises
concern about long-term electricity supplies to the energy-intensive aluminum
plants that are a key piece of the region's economy.

Scottish leader defends Lockerbie bomber release - Scotland's government
defended itself Sunday against unrelenting criticism from the U.S. over the
decision to free the Pan Am Flight 103 bomber on compassionate grounds.

Abdel Baset al-Megrahi, a Libyan convicted of killing 270 people in the 1988
airline bombing, was released Thursday because he is terminally ill with
prostate cancer. He has returned to his native Libya to die.

His release was met with outrage by families of the U.S. victims of the bombing
and criticized by President Barack Obama as "highly objectionable."

200 sea lions found dead on Chilean coast - At least 200 sea lions have been
found dead along Chile's northern coast.

Chile's fishing service says many of the dead apparently are young sea lions
abandoned when their mothers were drawn too far offshore hunting food. It says
the El Niño phenomenon has made prey scarce near shore.

Fidel Castro meets Ecuadorean leader - The Cuban newspaper Juventud Rebelde has
a photo of a healthier-looking Fidel Castro talking with the visiting Ecuadorean
president. Sunday's photo shows Castro, 83, with Rafael Correa on Friday.

Pope freed from wrist cast - Pope Benedict XVI made his first public appearance
since having the cast removed from his broken right wrist, joking Sunday that
his hand was "freed," but still a bit sluggish. The pontiff clearly favored his
left hand while blessing the faithful gathered in the courtyard of the papal
summer residence in Castel Gandolfo, Italy, for his traditional noon blessing,
but he was able to bless the crowd.

LOAD-DATE: August 24, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: BRIEF

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                  Copyright 2009 St. Louis Post-Dispatch, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              125 of 137 DOCUMENTS


                       St. Louis Post-Dispatch (Missouri)

                          September 12, 2009 Saturday
                                 THIRD EDITION

National DIGEST

BYLINE: From news services

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. A16

LENGTH: 542 words

DATELINE: 0


White House clarifies stance on health care and illegal immigrants

The White House strengthened its stand against health care coverage for illegal
immigrants Friday, and a pivotal Senate committee looked ready to follow its
lead. White House press secretary Robert Gibbs sketched a new position that goes
even further than some conservative critics had demanded: Obama will oppose
letting illegal immigrants buy insurance through new purchasing exchanges the
government will set up - even from private companies operating within the
exchanges.

White House officials said the policy didn't represent a change of position for
Obama, but it's one he apparently hasn't articulated in the past.

Tariffs set - President Barack Obama on Friday slapped punitive tariffs on all
car and light truck tires entering the U.S. from China in a decision that could
anger China but placate union supporters important to his health care push at
home.

The federal trade panel recommended a 55 percent tariff in the first year, 45
percent in the second year and 35 percent in the third year. Obama settled on
lower penalties - an extra 35 percent in the first year, 30 percent in the
second, and 25 percent in the third,

No charges - Attorney General Eric Holder has decided not to bring any criminal
charges against a former Bush administration official who lawmakers said lied to
them in sworn testimony. An inspector general's report found that Bradley
Schlozman, the former head of the civil rights division, misled lawmakers in
sworn testimony about whether he politicized hiring decisions.

Rihanna action - Two police officers have been placed on leave as part of a
probe into the leak of a photo of singer Rihanna's battered face after she was
assaulted by boyfriend Chris Brown, the officers' attorneys said. Rebecca Reyes
and Blanca Lopez were "assigned to home" with pay, pending the outcome of
investigations into how a website obtained the photograph.

CIA chided by judge - A federal judge says the CIA is hiding behind dubious
national security arguments to shield itself from a potentially embarrassing
lawsuit. U.S. District Judge Royce Lamberth, who earlier ruled that CIA
officials committed fraud to protect a former covert agent accused in the suit,
has rejected an emergency request to put the case on hold while the government
appeals.

Oldest person dies - Gertrude Baines, who lived to be the world's oldest person
on a steady diet of crispy bacon, fried chicken and ice cream, died at a nursing
home. She was 115. Baines, who said last year that she enjoyed life so much she
wouldn't mind living another 100 years, died in her sleep.

Showdown in Kentucky - Hours after his former fiancée was found shot to death,
former Kentucky gubernatorial candidate Steve Nunn slit his wrists and
threatened law enforcement officers at a cemetery, according to Kentucky State
Police. Nunn cut his wrists outside the cemetery where his father, former Gov.
Louie B. Nunn, is buried.

Masked speeder - State police in Arizona aren't chuckling at a driver who
triggered Phoenix-area freeway speed cameras more than 80 times in a year while
wearing monkey or giraffe masks. The Arizona Department of Public Safety says
the driver is flight attendant Dave VonTesmar, 47. He denies it.

LOAD-DATE: September 14, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: BRIEF

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                  Copyright 2009 St. Louis Post-Dispatch, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              126 of 137 DOCUMENTS


                       St. Louis Post-Dispatch (Missouri)

                          September 12, 2009 Saturday
                                 FIRST EDITION

DIGEST

BYLINE: From news services

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. A16

LENGTH: 542 words

DATELINE: 0


White House clarifies stance on health care and illegal immigrants

The White House strengthened its stand against health care coverage for illegal
immigrants Friday, and a pivotal Senate committee looked ready to follow its
lead. White House press secretary Robert Gibbs sketched a new position that goes
even further than some conservative critics had demanded: Obama will oppose
letting illegal immigrants buy insurance through new purchasing exchanges the
government will set up - even from private companies operating within the
exchanges.

White House officials said the policy didn't represent a change of position for
Obama, but it's one he apparently hasn't articulated in the past.

Tariffs set - President Barack Obama on Friday slapped punitive tariffs on all
car and light truck tires entering the U.S. from China in a decision that could
anger China but placate union supporters important to his health care push at
home.

The federal trade panel recommended a 55 percent tariff in the first year, 45
percent in the second year and 35 percent in the third year. Obama settled on
lower penalties - an extra 35 percent in the first year, 30 percent in the
second, and 25 percent in the third,

No charges - Attorney General Eric Holder has decided not to bring any criminal
charges against a former Bush administration official who lawmakers said lied to
them in sworn testimony. An inspector general's report found that Bradley
Schlozman, the former head of the civil rights division, misled lawmakers in
sworn testimony about whether he politicized hiring decisions.

Rihanna action - Two police officers have been placed on leave as part of a
probe into the leak of a photo of singer Rihanna's battered face after she was
assaulted by boyfriend Chris Brown, the officers' attorneys said. Rebecca Reyes
and Blanca Lopez were "assigned to home" with pay, pending the outcome of
investigations into how a website obtained the photograph.

CIA chided by judge - A federal judge says the CIA is hiding behind dubious
national security arguments to shield itself from a potentially embarrassing
lawsuit. U.S. District Judge Royce Lamberth, who earlier ruled that CIA
officials committed fraud to protect a former covert agent accused in the suit,
has rejected an emergency request to put the case on hold while the government
appeals.

Oldest person dies - Gertrude Baines, who lived to be the world's oldest person
on a steady diet of crispy bacon, fried chicken and ice cream, died at a nursing
home. She was 115. Baines, who said last year that she enjoyed life so much she
wouldn't mind living another 100 years, died in her sleep.

Showdown in Kentucky - Hours after his former fiancée was found shot to death,
former Kentucky gubernatorial candidate Steve Nunn slit his wrists and
threatened law enforcement officers at a cemetery, according to Kentucky State
Police. Nunn cut his wrists outside the cemetery where his father, former Gov.
Louie B. Nunn, is buried.

Masked speeder - State police in Arizona aren't chuckling at a driver who
triggered Phoenix-area freeway speed cameras more than 80 times in a year while
wearing monkey or giraffe masks. The Arizona Department of Public Safety says
the driver is flight attendant Dave VonTesmar, 47. He denies it.

LOAD-DATE: September 13, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: BRIEF

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                  Copyright 2009 St. Louis Post-Dispatch, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              127 of 137 DOCUMENTS


                       St. Louis Post-Dispatch (Missouri)

                          December 30, 2009 Wednesday
                                 THIRD EDITION

DIGEST - WORLD

BYLINE: From news services

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. A8

LENGTH: 397 words

DATELINE: 0


North Korea confirms it has U.S. missionary

North Korea acknowledged Tuesday it had detained an American for illegally
entering the reclusive country.

The news was welcomed by relatives of Robert Park, an Arizona missionary whom
they feared would never be heard from again after he sneaked across the Chinese
border. Activists say they last saw Park as he slipped across the frozen Tumen
River into North Korea on Christmas Day, carrying letters urging the country's
absolute leader to step down and free the hundreds of thousands of people held
in political camps.

Cuba gives diplomat access to arrested American - The Cuban government has given
a U.S. diplomat access to a jailed American citizen accused of providing
communications equipment to dissident groups while working as a government
contractor, a U.S. official in Havana said Tuesday.

The visit by a consular official took place Monday at an undisclosed location
where the American is being held following his arrest in early December,
according to a spokeswoman at the U.S. Interests Section, which Washington
maintains in Havana instead of an embassy.

U.S. court dismisses Holocaust survivors' suit - An American appeals court on
Tuesday dismissed a lawsuit by Holocaust survivors who alleged the Vatican bank
accepted millions of dollars of their valuables stolen by Nazi sympathizers.

The 9th Circuit Court of Appeals in San Francisco upheld a lower court ruling
that said the Vatican bank was immune from such a lawsuit under the 1976 Foreign
Sovereign Immunities Act, which generally protects foreign countries from being
sued in U.S. courts.

A record year for Somali pirates - Somali pirates have attacked 214 vessels so
far this year, resulting in 47 hijackings, a record for both, according to the
International Maritime Bureau. The attacks continue despite the deployment of
international warships to thwart them.

WHO: Swine flu still a threat - Many more people could become sick with swine
flu this winter even though it has peaked in North America and some European
countries, the head of the World Health Organization said Tuesday. Dr. Margaret
Chan said there is still intensive flu activity in Egypt, India and elsewhere.

Mexico City recognizes gay marriages - Mexico City enacted Latin America's first
law recognizing gay marriage Tuesday and said it hopes to attract same-sex
couples from around the world to wed.

LOAD-DATE: December 30, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: BRIEF

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                  Copyright 2009 St. Louis Post-Dispatch, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              128 of 137 DOCUMENTS


                       St. Louis Post-Dispatch (Missouri)

                          February 10, 2010 Wednesday
                                 THIRD EDITION

DIGEST - NATION

BYLINE: From news services

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. A13

LENGTH: 263 words

DATELINE: 0


Illegal immigrant numbers here fall

The number of illegal immigrants living in the United States dropped by 1
million people in two years, according to estimates by the Department of
Homeland Security. The government thinks 10.8 million illegal immigrants lived
in the country in January 2009, down from a peak of nearly 12 million in 2007.

A break for Boeing - Boeing is expected to benefit as Rep. Norm Dicks, D-Wash.,
becomes chairman of the Appropriations Defense subcommittee, left vacant by the
death of Rep. John Murtha, D-Pa. Boeing is a major employer in Dicks' district.
He has lobbied for years for Boeing to win a $35 billion contract for a new
fleet of midair refueling tankers.

Bailout payback - Former Treasury Secretary Henry Paulson predicted the U.S.
government will regain every penny given to the nation's banks during the
economic meltdown and may even profit. Billionaire Warren Buffett agreed.

Smell of gas - A worker who was in a Connecticut power plant when it exploded on
Sunday said there was a smell of natural gas in the plant less than an hour
before the blast. Paul Gaskins was working on a steam turbine at the Kleen
Energy plant in Middletown on Sunday when he was blown out the side of the
building from the force of the explosion.

CT scan changes - The Food and Drug Administration said it will work with
doctors and manufacturers to reduce unnecessary radiation exposure from medical
scans, a problem that has been growing for decades. The agency says it will
require safety controls that prevent patients from receiving excessive radiation
doses.

LOAD-DATE: February 10, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: BRIEF

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                  Copyright 2010 St. Louis Post-Dispatch, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              129 of 137 DOCUMENTS


                       St. Louis Post-Dispatch (Missouri)

                             April 18, 2010 Sunday
                                 FIRST EDITION

Drug violence floods border Mexicans seek refuge with special visas, but few are
granted asylum.

BYLINE: By JAMES C. McKINLEY Jr. o New York Times

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. A9

LENGTH: 418 words

DATELINE: 0


FORT HANCOCK, Texas - The giant rusty fence of metal bars along the border here,
built in recent years to keep illegal immigrants from crossing into the United
States, has a new nickname among area residents: Jurassic Park Gate, a nod to
the barrier in a 1993 movie that kept dangerous dinosaurs at bay in a theme
park.

On the other side, a brutal war between drug gangs has forced dozens of fearful
families from the Mexican town of El Porvenir to come to the border seeking
political asylum, and scores of other Mexicans have used special visas known as
border-crossing cards to flee into the United States. They say drug gangs
fighting for control of the trade have laid waste to their town, burning down
houses and killing people in the street.

Americans are taking in their Mexican relatives, and the schools have swelled
with traumatized children, many of whom have witnessed gangland violence, school
officials say.

The story of Fort Hancock, 57 miles southeast of El Paso on the Rio Grande, is
echoed along the Texas border with Mexico, from Brownsville to El Paso. As the
violence among drug gangs continues to spiral out of control in Mexico, more
Mexican citizens are seeking refuge in the United States.

About 2,000 people live here, in ramshackle trailer homes, weather-battered
recreational vehicles and well-kept brick houses.

Not everyone coming from El Porvenir is seeking asylum. Many Mexicans in towns
along the river have special border-crossing cards, which let them cross for up
to 30 days to do business and shop near the border. But some have used the visas
to relocate their families temporarily to Fort Hancock and other small towns on
the Texas side.

In El Paso alone, the police estimate that at least 30,000 Mexicans have moved
across the border in the past two years because of the violence in Juarez and
the river towns to the southeast. So many people have left El Porvenir and
nearby Guadalupe Bravos that the two resemble ghost towns, former residents say.

People without access to visas, however, have been seeking asylum, even at the
risk of being detained for months. In the early days of the conflict, most of
the asylum-seekers were journalists, police officers and officials who had been
threatened by organized crime. But now people with ordinary jobs are showing up
at the border and saying they fear for their lives.

But few Mexicans are granted asylum. Over the last three federal fiscal years,
immigration judges heard 9,317 requests across the country and granted only 183.

LOAD-DATE: April 18, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                  Copyright 2010 St. Louis Post-Dispatch, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              130 of 137 DOCUMENTS


                       St. Louis Post-Dispatch (Missouri)

                            December 12, 2008 Friday
                                 THIRD EDITION

NATION DIGEST

BYLINE: FROM NEWS SERVICES

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. A2

LENGTH: 296 words


SACRAMENTO, CALIF.

Air Resources Board adopts climate plan

California air regulators have adopted a sweeping new climate plan demanding
that the state's utilities, refineries and large factories transform their
operations to cut greenhouse gas emissions.

The plan adopted Thursday by the state Air Resources Board is the most
comprehensive road map to date to cut the amount of heat-trapping emissions in
the United States. It outlines for the first time how individuals and businesses
will meet a landmark 2006 law that made California a leader on global climate
change.

The plan calls for California to create a carbon-credit trading market to give
the state's major polluters cheaper ways to cut the amount of their emissions.

WASHINGTON

Chertoff used firm that hired illegal immigrants

The nation's top immigration cop unknowingly used a company that hired illegal
immigrants to clean his home for about three years, starting in 2005.

Homeland Security Secretary Michael Chertoff hired the Maryland-based Consistent
Cleaning Services to clean his home in the Washington suburbs every few weeks
for the past three years until an investigation conducted by one of his
department's agencies discovered the company hired illegal workers.

Briefly

- Religion ruling: A federal judge issued a temporary restraining order Thursday
barring South Carolina from marketing and making license plates that feature the
image of a cross and the words "I Believe."

- Auto fatalities: Federal safety officials said auto fatalities dropped almost
10 percent in 2008 through October.

- Asthma drugs: Medical and scientific advisers to the Food and Drug
Administration on Thursday recommended that Foradil and Serevent no longer be
used for asthma. But they spared Advair, the top-selling drug in the group.

LOAD-DATE: December 12, 2008

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: BRIEF

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                  Copyright 2008 St. Louis Post-Dispatch, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              131 of 137 DOCUMENTS


                       St. Louis Post-Dispatch (Missouri)

                             March 31, 2009 Tuesday
                                 THIRD EDITION

WASHINGTON DIGEST

BYLINE: From News Services

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. A7

LENGTH: 604 words

DATELINE: 0


U.S. drops use of term 'global war on terror'

Secretary of State Hillary Rodham Clinton says the Obama administration has
indeed abandoned the term "global war on terror." The term was a rallying cry
for President George W. Bush after the Sept. 11 terror attacks. But the phrase
is widely disliked overseas.

New strategy for the undocumented - With their prospects in Congress sinking
along with the economy, liberal advocates of giving undocumented immigrants a
path to citizenship are launching a risky strategy to push lawmakers and the
White House to take up their cause. They propose that Congress legalize millions
of undocumented workers now in exchange for reducing the number of temporary
foreign workers allowed to enter the country in the future. It could win the
support of organized labor but risks alienating businesses that rely on
temporary workers.

First response money not being used - More than $1 billion in federal aid
intended to improve emergency communications among police, firefighters and EMTs
goes unspent because it isn't a priority for state and local authorities. "For
God's sake, get on with it," urged Rep. Hal Rogers, R-Ky., whose homeland
security subcommittee will take up the impasse today.

Guantanamo prisoner may be released - The Obama administration has agreed to
release another Guantanamo detainee, Aymen Saeed Batarfi, 38, and is looking for
a country to take him, according to papers filed in federal court in Washington.

FEMA may forgive some loans - The federal government is proposing to forgive
disaster loans to coastal communities that have faced budget problems since
hurricanes Katrina and Rita. Rules proposed would let local governments avoid
paying back some or all of the loan if tax revenue since the disasters haven't
met operating costs. The Federal Emergency Management Agency loaned communities
in Louisiana and Mississippi nearly $1.3 billion to help run their governments
after the 2005 hurricanes.

Schumer backs BPA ban - Sen. Charles Schumer, D-N.Y., has proposed a nationwide
ban on a chemical called BPA that is used to make baby bottles and other
products for toddlers. Proponents of a ban argue that BPA can lead to
developmental problems.

New rules for private insurance - The Obama administration is putting new curbs
on private insurance plans that are popular with seniors in Medicare, but have
been criticized for marketing abuses and high costs to the government.
Administration officials said the changes include winnowing the number of
versions of a plan that insurers can offer, discouraging insurers from shifting
costs to patients with chronic diseases and banning an occasional practice of
charging patients more for brand-name drugs.

Wilderness bill is signed - President Barack Obama has signed legislation that
sets aside more than 2 million acres as protected wilderness. The law protects
land from California's Sierra Nevada to the Jefferson National Forest in
Virginia, and represents one of the largest expansions of wilderness protection
in a quarter-century.

Black Caucus faults Obama - Members of the Congressional Black Caucus criticized
the lack of minority participation in the government's financial bailouts and
suggested that President Barack Obama isn't doing much better than his
predecessor to ensure diversity. The lawmakers voiced their concerns during an
all-day summit on Capitol Hill that drew several hundred minority- and
female-owned business leaders.

'Superman' law is signed - President Barack Obama has signed into law a bill
named for "Superman" actor Christopher Reeve that provides for paralysis
research and rehabilitation.

LOAD-DATE: March 31, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES:  WASHINGTON digest

GRAPHIC:  PHOTO - Sneak Peek At New Spacecraft Visitors gather Monday around a
full-size mockup of the Orion crew exploration vehicle, displayed on the
National Mall in Washington. The spacecraft is designed to carry U.S. astronauts
back to the moon and then on to Mars one day. The Navy-built Orion vehicle will
replace the space shuttle, which NASA plans to retire next year, and become the
cornerstone of the agency's Constellation Program. Haraz N. Ghanbari o The
Associated Press

DOCUMENT-TYPE: BRIEF

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                  Copyright 2009 St. Louis Post-Dispatch, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              132 of 137 DOCUMENTS


                       St. Louis Post-Dispatch (Missouri)

                             April 17, 2009 Friday
                                 THIRD EDITION

Foreign workers got child tax credits $7 billion claimed improperly, report
says.

BYLINE: By Stephen Ohlemacher o The Associated Press

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. A11

LENGTH: 396 words

DATELINE: 0


WASHINGTON - The IRS allowed foreign workers - many of them in the U.S.
illegally - to improperly claim nearly $7 billion in child tax credits from 2004
to 2007, a government investigator said Thursday.

Most of the credits went to workers who didn't make enough money to pay federal
income taxes, J. Russell George, the Treasury Inspector General for Tax
Administration, said in a report. In those cases, the workers received payments
from the Internal Revenue Service after filing income tax returns.

The IRS allowed the tax credits even though the workers did not provide Social
Security numbers on their tax returns, the report said. Instead, the workers
used government-issued tax identification numbers, which are available to
immigrants for certain tax-filing purposes - regardless of their legal status -
but are not valid for employment in the U.S.

The issue highlights a weakness in current law, according to the report. Federal
law does not require a Social Security number to receive the $1,000 child tax
credit. But a Social Security number is required to work and earn wages in the
U.S.

"As it now stands, the payment of federal funds through this tax benefit appears
to provide an additional incentive for aliens to enter, reside and work in the
U.S. without authorization, which contradicts federal law and policy to remove
such incentives," the report said.

The IRS said it supports efforts to require Social Security numbers to receive
the child tax credit. In the meantime, the IRS has stepped up efforts to ensure
that immigrants do not improperly obtain Individual Taxpayer Identification
Numbers, the agency said in a written response to the report.

The IRS also said the Social Security Administration is working to ensure that
workers have valid Social Security numbers.

The inspector general's report claims those efforts are insufficient.
Investigators were able to identify nearly 293,000 employers who filed wage
statements in 2006 that listed tax identification numbers instead of Social
Security numbers for workers, a 15 percent increase from two years earlier.

The 2006 wage statements, or W-2 forms, covered nearly 791,000 workers reporting
more than $9.5 billion in wages, the report said.

"Although the IRS has data available to identify these individuals and
employers, no significant actions are taken to address the noncompliance," the
report said.

LOAD-DATE: April 18, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                  Copyright 2009 St. Louis Post-Dispatch, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              133 of 137 DOCUMENTS


                       St. Louis Post-Dispatch (Missouri)

                           December 6, 2008 Saturday
                                 SECOND EDITION

U.S. to recruit foreigners for war Pentagon faces shortage of citizens who are
doctors, nurses, linguists.

BYLINE: By Pauline Jelinek The Associated Press

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. A17

LENGTH: 420 words


Struggling to find enough doctors, nurses and linguists for the war effort, the
Pentagon will temporarily recruit foreigners who have been living in the United
States on student and work visas, or with refugee or political asylum status.

Defense Secretary Robert Gates has authorized the Army, Navy, Air Force and
Marine Corps to recruit certain legal residents whose medical and language
skills are "vital to the national interest," officials said, using for the first
time a law passed three years ago.

Though the military previously has taken recruits with Green Cards seeking
permanent residency, Gates' action enables the services to start a one-year
pilot program to find up to 1,000 foreigners who have lived in the United States
legally for at least two years on certain types of temporary visas.

The new recruits into the armed forces would get accelerated treatment in the
process toward becoming U.S. citizens in return for serving in the wartime
military in the United States or abroad.

The Pentagon's doctor and nurse corps remain 1,000 short of the numbers needed.

The military's most pressing need is for neurosurgeons and dermatologists to
treat troops coming home from Iraq and Afghanistan with brain and burn injuries
caused by insurgents' wide use of bombs.

The force also lacks nurses with a broad range of specialties. It also needs
people with special language and cultural skills. Though the military has been
looking for more Arabic speakers and others to help with the wars in Iraq and
Afghanistan, the new program looks to recruit speakers of some three dozen
languages, including Albanian, Korean, Punjabi, Somali and Turkish.

The effort to find the recruits begins early next year. If there is a need for
more recruits in the future, it would take a new authorization.

Of the 1,000 new people, at least a third must be medical professionals.

The armed forces have used foreigners since the War of 1812 - over the years
some 700,000 have served.

But because of the war on terrorism begun after the Sept. 11, 2001, attacks,
President George W. Bush signed an order in 2002 making foreigners who join the
military eligible to apply immediately for citizenship.

They essentially go to the head of the line among citizenship applicants, having
their cases processed in about three years as opposed to the five years it takes
others, said Bill Carr, deputy undersecretary of defense for military personnel
policy.

About 29,000 noncitizens are in uniform today, Carr said, with about 8,000 more
enlisting every year.

LOAD-DATE: December 6, 2008

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                  Copyright 2008 St. Louis Post-Dispatch, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              134 of 137 DOCUMENTS


                       St. Louis Post-Dispatch (Missouri)

                           December 11, 2008 Thursday
                                 THIRD EDITION

Bush changes rules on hiring of foreign farmworkers

BYLINE: By Suzanne Gamboa THE ASSOCIATED PRESS

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. A2

LENGTH: 463 words


WASHINGTON - As the administration of President George W. Bush prepares to leave
office, it is moving to make it easier for U.S. farming companies to hire
foreign field workers, which farmworker groups say will worsen wages and working
conditions.

Farm groups said that changes to the H2A visa program, used by the agriculture
industry to hire temporary farmworkers, were posted on the Labor Department's
website at midnight Tuesday but had since been taken down.

Labor Department spokesman Terry Shawn said that whatever was posted wasn't the
final version of the new rule, which Shawn said would be released today and
published in the Federal Register on Dec. 18.

The Bush administration published a proposed version of the new rule on Feb. 13
and received nearly 12,000 public comments, Shawn added. The next version will
be a final rule and can take effect 30 days after publication. Some of its
provisions would take effect in mid-January and others later in the year, the
farmworker groups said.

Farmworker advocates and the United Farm Workers union said the version that
appeared on the website would lead to a flood of cheaper workers.

"The government has decided to offer agriculture employers really low wages, low
benefits, no government oversight to bring in foreign workers on restricted
visas and thereby convince them they should do this instead of hiring
undocumented workers," said Bruce Goldstein, executive director of Farmworker
Justice, a group that advocates for farmworkers.

The changes in the posted version would drop a requirement that an employer get
the Labor Department to certify it faces a worker shortage before it can get
visas for foreign workers; instead, employers would be allowed to simply attest
in writing to a shortage. That version of the new rule also would change the
method for calculating wage minimums for workers, Goldstein said.

Paul Schlegel, American Farm Bureau public policy director, said many of the
changes would make the program a little less burdensome for employers. He said
current laws prevented employers from hiring foreign workers if the jobs could
be filled by U.S. workers.

"My members want to make sure they have a legal supply of labor," said Schlegel,
who added that he had not reviewed all the proposed changes.

The rule changes are a part of a pattern of last-minute regulatory changes being
rushed into effect by the Bush administration before President-elect Barack
Obama's Jan. 20 inauguration.

The effect is to make it harder for Obama to change course on some policies
favored by Republicans and business people.

Many of the last-minute changes by the Bush administration have come in the area
of public lands and the environment, including easing regulations on mining
waste and allowing handguns in national parks.

LOAD-DATE: December 11, 2008

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                  Copyright 2008 St. Louis Post-Dispatch, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              135 of 137 DOCUMENTS


                       St. Louis Post-Dispatch (Missouri)

                            March 20, 2010 Saturday
                                 THIRD EDITION

Fugitive linked to Baptist efforts in Haiti is arrested Man who served as
adoption group's lawyer faces human trafficking charges.

BYLINE: BY EZEQUIEL ABIU LOPEZ o Associated Press

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. A15

LENGTH: 401 words

DATELINE: 0


SANTO DOMINGO, Dominican Republic - A fugitive who once acted as the lawyer for
a group of U.S. Baptist missionaries accused of kidnapping 33 Haitian children
was arrested on human trafficking charges, authorities said Friday.

Jorge Puello, 32, was detained at the United States' request as he left a
McDonald's restaurant late Thursday in the Dominican capital, Santo Domingo,
said National Drug Control Agency spokesman Roberto Lebron.

A judge has 30 days to meet with Puello, Dominican authorities, and an attorney
representing the U.S. government before deciding whether to honor the
government's extradition request, he said.

Puello is wanted in Vermont and in Canada for smuggling illegal immigrants, and
in Philadelphia for probation violations related to fraud charges, said a
statement from U.S. Immigration and Customs Enforcement.

He is wanted in El Salvador for crimes against children; sexual exploitation of
minors for pornography and prostitution; organized crime; and human trafficking,
ICE said. Interpol issued an arrest warrant for Puello at El Salvador's request.

Puello has denied the allegations. His mother, Soledad Puello, secretary of
internal affairs for the National Party of Veterans and Civilians, told The
Associated Press on Friday that she will represent him in court.

"In the Dominican Republic ... the entire community will come out to defend
him," she said. Soledad Puello had told the AP on Thursday that she and others
were negotiating with Salvadoran prosecutors for her son to turn himself in.

Puello initially served as legal adviser and spokesman for the 10 U.S. Baptists
who were detained in Haiti on child-kidnapping charges in February, but
authorities later identified him as the man wanted in El Salvador.

Puello attracted international attention when he provided the missionaries with
food, medicine and legal assistance. One of the Baptists' Haitian lawyers, Aviol
Fleurant, told the AP that Puello absconded with $30,000 in legal fees the
Americans had raised for Fleurant.

Puello, who was born in New York but holds both U.S. and Dominican citizenship,
told the AP last month that he was innocent of all accusations.

Nine of the missionaries, most of whom are from Idaho, have been released from
jail and returned to the United States. Group leader Laura Silsby remains in
custody at the police station that is being used as Haiti's temporary government
headquarters.

LOAD-DATE: March 23, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: BRIEF

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                  Copyright 2010 St. Louis Post-Dispatch, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              136 of 137 DOCUMENTS


                       St. Louis Post-Dispatch (Missouri)

                              July 2, 2010 Friday
                                 THIRD EDITION

WORLD DIGEST

BYLINE: From news services

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. A21

LENGTH: 886 words

DATELINE: 0


Gunbattle leaves 21 dead near Mexico-U.S. border

A massive gunbattle between rival drug and migrant-trafficking gangs left 21
people dead on Thursday, officials in Hermosillo, Mexico, said. The clash
occurred in a sparsely populated area about 12 miles south of the Arizona border
- a prime corridor for immigrant and drug smuggling. Officials did not say why
the gunfight had broken out, but Mexican gangs often fight for control of
smuggling routes into the United States.

Nepal's prime minister resigns - Nepal's communist former rebels reached out to
other political parties Thursday to form a new coalition government, a day after
the prime minister resigned following months of sometimes-violent protests.
Prime Minister Madhav Kumar Nepal resigned Wednesday, bowing to months of
pressure from the Maoists, who demanded his ouster in parliament and in street
demonstrations.

China expands media reach - The Xinhua News Agency, China's dominant news
service and the propaganda arm of the Communist Party, introduced a 24-hour,
English-language news channel and is preparing to open a prominent newsroom in
Times Square. The announcement Thursday is the strongest sign yet that China
intends to spend billions of dollars over the next few years to create a global
media empire that can match the country's rising economic and diplomatic power
and more effectively project its views to an international audience.

Britain won't build more runways - Citing the high levels of greenhouse gas
emissions from aviation, British Prime Minister David Cameron, a Conservative,
abruptly canceled long-standing plans to build a third runway at Heathrow
Airport in May, just days after his election; he said he would also refuse to
approve new runways at Gatwick and Stansted, London's second-string airports.
The government decided that enabling more flying was incompatible with Britain's
oft-stated goal of curbing emissions.

Syria detains 400 - Syrian security officials have detained 400 people suspected
of links to a Kurdish separatist group, the state-run Anatolian news agency
reported Thursday. Syrian forces began operations in Damascus and four other
cities in a crackdown on PKK members suspected of "being members of a terrorist
organization, forcefully collecting money, attempting to divide Syrian land in
efforts to form a separate state and inciting ethnic and religious separation
among Kurds," the report said.

Sweden ends military commitment - Sweden on Thursday abolished a 100-year
tradition of compulsory military service for men during peacetime, replacing it
with a voluntary system with rigorous requirements to join.

French crack down - French police have struck a blow to a black market trade
that has long flourished in the shadow of the Eiffel Tower: informal peddling of
miniature tower replicas. Police detained 39 people in breaking up a Chinese-run
ring of illegal Senegalese immigrants accused of selling unauthorized Eiffel
Tower souvenirs.

Breaking the ice in Iceland - Iceland's prime minister made history last week
when she wed her girlfriend, becoming the world's first head of government to
enter a gay marriage. But fellow Nordic nations hardly noticed when Johanna
Sigurdardottir, 67, tied the knot with her longtime partner.

Abbas reaches out - The Palestinian president, Mahmoud Abbas, made a rare effort
to reach out directly to the Israeli public, calling on Israel's leadership to
step up peace efforts. "We want to live in peace. Don't kill the hope," Abbas
said in comments published Thursday after a group interview with six
correspondents from Israel's leading newspapers.

Uzbeks being arrested - Dozens of Uzbek community, religious and political
leaders have been arrested recently by Kyrgyzstan police and accused of inciting
ethnic violence, rights groups say. They were detained as part of an
investigation into the unrest that raged through ethnic Uzbek neighborhoods here
last month in which thousands of people, most of them Uzbeks, were thought to
have died. The investigation itself, which was authorized by the government of
Kyrgyzstan's interim president, Roza Otunbayeva, has been turned into a campaign
of persecution against ethnic Uzbek political and religious leaders, human
rights groups say.

Japanese capsule yields vapor - Japanese scientists announced they have detected
traces of vaporized material inside the capsule of the Hayabusa space probe that
returned last month from a seven-year, 382-million-mile trip. The material
likely came from the asteroid Itokawa, which loops the sun in an orbit that
crosses the paths of both Earth and Mars. Earlier examinations had found
nothing, an embarrassment for the country's space program.

American cleared - An American scientist accused of manipulating research
findings on climate science was cleared of that charge by his university
Thursday, the latest in a string of reports to find little substance in the
allegations known as Climategate. An investigative panel at Penn State, weighing
the question of whether the scientist, Michael Mann, had "seriously deviated
from accepted practices within the academic community for proposing, conducting
or reporting research or other scholarly activities," declared that he had not.
Mann said he was gratified by the findings, the second report from Penn State to
clear him.

LOAD-DATE: July 3, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: BRIEF

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                  Copyright 2010 St. Louis Post-Dispatch, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              137 of 137 DOCUMENTS


                       St. Louis Post-Dispatch (Missouri)

                              July 2, 2010 Friday
                                 FIRST EDITION

DIGEST

BYLINE: From news services|||

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. A21

LENGTH: 886 words

DATELINE: 0


Gunbattle leaves 21 dead near Mexico-U.S. border

A massive gunbattle between rival drug and migrant-trafficking gangs left 21
people dead on Thursday, officials in Hermosillo, Mexico, said. The clash
occurred in a sparsely populated area about 12 miles south of the Arizona border
- a prime corridor for immigrant and drug smuggling. Officials did not say why
the gunfight had broken out, but Mexican gangs often fight for control of
smuggling routes into the United States.

Nepal's prime minister resigns - Nepal's communist former rebels reached out to
other political parties Thursday to form a new coalition government, a day after
the prime minister resigned following months of sometimes-violent protests.
Prime Minister Madhav Kumar Nepal resigned Wednesday, bowing to months of
pressure from the Maoists, who demanded his ouster in parliament and in street
demonstrations.

China expands media reach - The Xinhua News Agency, China's dominant news
service and the propaganda arm of the Communist Party, introduced a 24-hour,
English-language news channel and is preparing to open a prominent newsroom in
Times Square. The announcement Thursday is the strongest sign yet that China
intends to spend billions of dollars over the next few years to create a global
media empire that can match the country's rising economic and diplomatic power
and more effectively project its views to an international audience.

Britain won't build more runways - Citing the high levels of greenhouse gas
emissions from aviation, British Prime Minister David Cameron, a Conservative,
abruptly canceled long-standing plans to build a third runway at Heathrow
Airport in May, just days after his election; he said he would also refuse to
approve new runways at Gatwick and Stansted, London's second-string airports.
The government decided that enabling more flying was incompatible with Britain's
oft-stated goal of curbing emissions.

Syria detains 400 - Syrian security officials have detained 400 people suspected
of links to a Kurdish separatist group, the state-run Anatolian news agency
reported Thursday. Syrian forces began operations in Damascus and four other
cities in a crackdown on PKK members suspected of "being members of a terrorist
organization, forcefully collecting money, attempting to divide Syrian land in
efforts to form a separate state and inciting ethnic and religious separation
among Kurds," the report said.

Sweden ends military commitment - Sweden on Thursday abolished a 100-year
tradition of compulsory military service for men during peacetime, replacing it
with a voluntary system with rigorous requirements to join.

French crack down - French police have struck a blow to a black market trade
that has long flourished in the shadow of the Eiffel Tower: informal peddling of
miniature tower replicas. Police detained 39 people in breaking up a Chinese-run
ring of illegal Senegalese immigrants accused of selling unauthorized Eiffel
Tower souvenirs.

Breaking the ice in Iceland - Iceland's prime minister made history last week
when she wed her girlfriend, becoming the world's first head of government to
enter a gay marriage. But fellow Nordic nations hardly noticed when Johanna
Sigurdardottir, 67, tied the knot with her longtime partner.

Abbas reaches out - The Palestinian president, Mahmoud Abbas, made a rare effort
to reach out directly to the Israeli public, calling on Israel's leadership to
step up peace efforts. "We want to live in peace. Don't kill the hope," Abbas
said in comments published Thursday after a group interview with six
correspondents from Israel's leading newspapers.

Uzbeks being arrested - Dozens of Uzbek community, religious and political
leaders have been arrested recently by Kyrgyzstan police and accused of inciting
ethnic violence, rights groups say. They were detained as part of an
investigation into the unrest that raged through ethnic Uzbek neighborhoods here
last month in which thousands of people, most of them Uzbeks, were thought to
have died. The investigation itself, which was authorized by the government of
Kyrgyzstan's interim president, Roza Otunbayeva, has been turned into a campaign
of persecution against ethnic Uzbek political and religious leaders, human
rights groups say.

Japanese capsule yields vapor - Japanese scientists announced they have detected
traces of vaporized material inside the capsule of the Hayabusa space probe that
returned last month from a seven-year, 382-million-mile trip. The material
likely came from the asteroid Itokawa, which loops the sun in an orbit that
crosses the paths of both Earth and Mars. Earlier examinations had found
nothing, an embarrassment for the country's space program.

American cleared - An American scientist accused of manipulating research
findings on climate science was cleared of that charge by his university
Thursday, the latest in a string of reports to find little substance in the
allegations known as Climategate. An investigative panel at Penn State, weighing
the question of whether the scientist, Michael Mann, had "seriously deviated
from accepted practices within the academic community for proposing, conducting
or reporting research or other scholarly activities," declared that he had not.
Mann said he was gratified by the findings, the second report from Penn State to
clear him.

LOAD-DATE: July 2, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: BRIEF

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                  Copyright 2010 St. Louis Post-Dispatch, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved
