
                               1 of 275 DOCUMENTS

                       St. Louis Post-Dispatch (Missouri)

                   April 2, 2001, Monday, THREE STAR EDITION

NATION

BYLINE: From News ServicesMASSACHUSETTS; STATE ATTORNEY GENERAL; MEDICAL;
PROCEDURE GEORGIA; PUBLIC SCHOOL; MALE TEACHERS; SEXUAL; RELATIONS; GIRL SCOUTS

SECTION: NEWS, Pg. A5

LENGTH: 634 words



EAST

BOSTON

Attorney general aids immigrant workers

The state attorney general's office is quietly aiding hundreds of undocumented
immigrant workers facing exploitation at their jobs, promising not to report
them to the Immigration and Naturalization Service.

In the past few months, Attorney General Thomas Reilly's office has demanded
overtime pay for Somali wedding gown seamstresses in Boston and collected $
36,000 in unpaid wages for laborers at a construction company in Haverhill. It
has aided a Brazilian woman being harassed by a supervisor who threatened to
call the INS if she spurned his advances.

Reilly has directed his staff to investigate worker complaints, ignore their
immigration status and, if necessary, promise immigrants they will not be turned
over to the INS.

He said he is more concerned about violations of workers' rights than reporting
possible violations of immigration laws.

WASHINGTON

Medicare will cover intestinal transplants

Medicare will now pay for intestinal transplants for some elderly and disabled
patients at three government-approved transplant centers.

Nationally, more than 75,000 people are waiting for organ transplants, but just
173 need new intestines. Fewer than 1,000 of intestinal transplants have been
performed in the United States, and most of those operations have been done on
children.

The transplant replaces the small intestine in people whose digestive systems
cannot absorb nutrients, a condition caused by a variety of medical problems,
including bowel disease and injury.

The government will cover patients with intestine failure who no longer can be
treated with intravenous feeding tubes. The decision affects few of the millions
of elderly and disabled patients covered by Medicare, but health officials said
it was a big step in advancing donor awareness and medical technology.

Supporters say the change in Medicare policy is important because private health
insurance companies often follow the government's lead when deciding what
procedures to cover.

SOUTH

WOODSTOCK, Ga.

Sex scandal at school shocks residents

An investigation into allegations that one teacher had an affair with a student
has produced a series of shocks for residents of this affluent Atlanta suburb.

All told, three young, male teachers have resigned and face sex charges.  And
last week, principal J. Rick Ingram announced his resignation, saying the
scandal has "brought shame, ridicule and embarrassment" to Woodstock High
School.

Brad Chapman, 24, was charged with sexual assault. Richard Paul Adams II, 29,
was charged with attempted sexual assault. Gene R. Groves, 25, was charged with
sexual battery and sexual assault against a person in his custody.

Cherokee County schools Superintendent Frank Petruzielo defended the school
system. He said all new teachers undergo thorough background checks and attend
an orientation that includes the district's code of ethics. He also plans to
start a mentoring program so older teachers can work with young teachers.

SAVANNAH, Ga.

Girl Scout uniforms get fashionable look

Striped blouses and pleated skirts are out, stretchy tops and cargo pants are
in. The Girl Scouts are getting a new look after years of moaning that their
uniforms are fashion duds.

The organization hopes a hip wardrobe will combat an image among teens that only
the uncool stay in scouting years after trading in their Brownie beanies.

"One of the biggest challenges is to even get the girls to wear uniforms," said
Linda Mills, council director in Hays, Kan.

About 800 council executives and mothers from across the nation got a look at
the new outfits this weekend in Savannah, where Juliette Gordon Low founded the
organization in 1912.

LOAD-DATE: April 2, 2001

LANGUAGE: English

NOTES: NATION & WORLD

                  Copyright 2001 St. Louis Post-Dispatch, Inc.


                               2 of 275 DOCUMENTS

                       St. Louis Post-Dispatch (Missouri)

               December 20, 2001 Thursday Five Star Lift Edition

6 TYSON FOODS OFFICIALS FACE FEDERAL CHARGES OF SMUGGLING IMMIGRANTS;
 SCHEME INCLUDED TWO MISSOURI PLANTS, AUTHORITIES SAY

BYLINE: From News Services Jim Gallagher And Phyllis Brasch Librach Of The
Post-Dispatch Contributed To This Report.

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. A1

LENGTH: 934 words

DATELINE: CHATTANOOGA, TENN.


Six executives and managers of Tyson Foods Inc. were accused Wednesday of
smuggling illegal Mexican immigrants into the country to work at the processing
plants of the world's largest poultry company.

The federal indictment said one of the managers had told an undercover agent
that the company would pay $200 for each illegal alien delivered.

The indictment, unsealed Wednesday in U.S. District Court in Chattanooga, also
said the managers had helped the immigrants obtain false documents to work in
the United States, hoping that the cheap labor would help Tyson cut costs and
meet production goals. In what immigration officials said is the biggest case of
its kind, Tyson also is accused of failing to check the credentials of illegal
workers.

Among those indicted was Keith Snyder, former complex manager at Tyson's
operation at Noel, in Missouri's far southwestern corner. Tyson's plants in Noel
and outside Sedalia were among 15 plants in nine states involved in the scheme,
the Justice Department said.

Noel Mayor John P. Baucom reacted with surprise to word of the federal
indictment. "I'm flabbergasted over all this," said Baucom, the top elected
official in Noel, a town of almost 1,500.

Baucom described Snyder as "an all-American boy."

"He doesn't strike me as the kind of person who would do something illegally,"
Baucom said.

"He's just logical. If there is a problem, he will try to help you take care of
it. He can meet you one-on-one and see both sides."

Genaro Salas owns a convenience store and gas station just outside the main gate
at Tyson's Noel plant, where he caters to Hispanics employed by the company.

Salas said Tyson, in its effort to find workers, had gone to Texas to recruit
people to come work in the Noel chicken processing plant.

"I don't see what the big deal is," Salas said. "If people want to work and do
the job other people don't want to do - let them."

Ken Kimbro, a spokesman for Tyson, called "the prosecutor's claim in this
indictment of a corporate conspiracy . . . absolutely false."

Kimbro said the charges were limited to a few managers who acted on their own.
He said that four had been fired and that two others had been placed on leave
pending the outcome of the case.

"This indictment came because Tyson refused to agree to the prosecutor's
outrageous financial demands," Kimbro said. The Arkansas-based company refused
to elaborate on the alleged demands.

According to the indictment, the company cultivated a corporate culture in which
the hiring of illegal immigrant workers was condoned to meet production goals
and to cut costs to maximize profits. The scheme dated back to 1994, the
indictment stated.

"The Department of Justice is committed to vigorously investigating and
prosecuting companies or individuals who exploit immigrants and violate our
nation's immigration laws. The bottom line on the corporate balance sheet is no
excuse for criminal conduct," Assistant Attorney General Michael Chertoff said
in a statement.

Founded by Donald Tyson, a longtime friend and political supporter of former
President Bill Clinton, Tyson is one of the world's largest poultry, beef and
pork processors, with 120,000 employees and sales last year of $23.8 billion.

The indictment was handed up after a 2 1/2-year undercover investigation by the
Immigration and Naturalization Service. The undercover investigation that led to
the indictment began 18 months before Clinton left office.

"This case represents the first time the (immigration service) has taken action
against a company of Tyson's magnitude," said James Ziglar, commissioner of the
agency.

The Tyson case, Ziglar said, means that "companies, regardless of size, are on
notice that (the immigration service) is committed to enforcing compliance with
immigration laws and protecting America's work force."

According to prosecutors, undercover agents working for Tyson were directed by
company managers to pick up immigrants at the Mexican border and take them to
processing plants. Prosecutors said the agents were reimbursed for "recruitment"
expenses.

Prosecutors would not say how many immigrants were involved.

Robert Hash, vice president of Tyson's retail fresh division, and Gerald
Lankford, a former human resources manager of the division, were charged, along
with three former managers at the Shelbyville, Tenn., plant and Snyder, who used
to work in Shelbyville.

In the past, Tyson officials have played down the company's role in the booming
Hispanic populations near its plants. Bedford County, where the Shelbyville
plant is situated, is home to Tennessee's highest concentration of Hispanics,
according to 2000 census figures.

Importing illegal aliens for commercial advantage can carry a mandatory minimum
sentence of five years in prison. Prosecutors are also seeking forfeiture of the
financial gain allegedly realized by Tyson and its man agers, which could result
in fines exceeding $100 million.

Tyson previously encountered legal problems when top executives were accused of
providing illegal gratuities to former U.S. Agriculture Secretary Mike Espy and
to Espy's girlfriend.

Tyson agreed to pay a $6 million fine in 1998 to settle allegations by a special
prosecutor that it had provided thousands of dollars in gifts, including
football tickets, plane fares and limousine rentals, to Espy while he was
agriculture secretary in Clinton's administration.

A federal jury acquitted Espy on all charges of improperly accepting gifts and
travel from companies that he regulated. Espy resigned in 1994 amid the charges.

LOAD-DATE: December 23, 2001

LANGUAGE: English

                  Copyright 2001 St. Louis Post-Dispatch, Inc.


                               3 of 275 DOCUMENTS

                       St. Louis Post-Dispatch (Missouri)

               December 20, 2001 Thursday Five Star Lift Edition

6 TYSON FOODS OFFICIALS FACE FEDERAL CHARGES OF SMUGGLING IMMIGRANTS;
 SCHEME INCLUDED TWO MISSOURI PLANTS, AUTHORITIES SAY

BYLINE: News Services Jim Gallagher And Phyllis Brasch Librach Of The
Post-Dispatch Contributed To This Report.

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. A1

LENGTH: 934 words

DATELINE: CHATTANOOGA, TENN.


Six executives and managers of Tyson Foods Inc. were accused Wednesday of
smuggling illegal Mexican immigrants into the country to work at the processing
plants of the world's largest poultry company.

The federal indictment said one of the managers had told an undercover agent
that the company would pay $200 for each illegal alien delivered.

The indictment, unsealed Wednesday in U.S. District Court in Chattanooga, also
said the managers had helped the immigrants obtain false documents to work in
the United States, hoping that the cheap labor would help Tyson cut costs and
meet production goals. In what immigration officials said is the biggest case of
its kind, Tyson also is accused of failing to check the credentials of illegal
workers.

Among those indicted was Keith Snyder, former complex manager at Tyson's
operation at Noel, in Missouri's far southwestern corner. Tyson's plants in Noel
and outside Sedalia were among 15 plants in nine states involved in the scheme,
the Justice Department said.

Noel Mayor John P. Baucom reacted with surprise to word of the federal
indictment. "I'm flabbergasted over all this," said Baucom, the top elected
official in Noel, a town of almost 1,500.

Baucom described Snyder as "an all-American boy."

"He doesn't strike me as the kind of person who would do something illegally,"
Baucom said.

"He's just logical. If there is a problem, he will try to help you take care of
it. He can meet you one-on-one and see both sides."

Genaro Salas owns a convenience store and gas station just outside the main gate
at Tyson's Noel plant, where he caters to Hispanics employed by the company.

Salas said Tyson, in its effort to find workers, had gone to Texas to recruit
people to come work in the Noel chicken processing plant.

"I don't see what the big deal is," Salas said. "If people want to work and do
the job other people don't want to do - let them."

Ken Kimbro, a spokesman for Tyson, called "the prosecutor's claim in this
indictment of a corporate conspiracy . . . absolutely false."

Kimbro said the charges were limited to a few managers who acted on their own.
He said that four had been fired and that two others had been placed on leave
pending the outcome of the case.

"This indictment came because Tyson refused to agree to the prosecutor's
outrageous financial demands," Kimbro said. The Arkansas-based company refused
to elaborate on the alleged demands.

According to the indictment, the company cultivated a corporate culture in which
the hiring of illegal immigrant workers was condoned to meet production goals
and to cut costs to maximize profits. The scheme dated back to 1994, the
indictment stated.

"The Department of Justice is committed to vigorously investigating and
prosecuting companies or individuals who exploit immigrants and violate our
nation's immigration laws. The bottom line on the corporate balance sheet is no
excuse for criminal conduct," Assistant Attorney General Michael Chertoff said
in a statement.

Founded by Donald Tyson, a longtime friend and political supporter of former
President Bill Clinton, Tyson is one of the world's largest poultry, beef and
pork processors, with 120,000 employees and sales last year of $23.8 billion.

The indictment was handed up after a 2 1/2-year undercover investigation by the
Immigration and Naturalization Service. The undercover investigation that led to
the indictment began 18 months before Clinton left office.

"This case represents the first time the (immigration service) has taken action
against a company of Tyson's magnitude," said James Ziglar, commissioner of the
agency.

The Tyson case, Ziglar said, means that "companies, regardless of size, are on
notice that (the immigration service) is committed to enforcing compliance with
immigration laws and protecting America's work force."

According to prosecutors, undercover agents working for Tyson were directed by
company managers to pick up immigrants at the Mexican border and take them to
processing plants. Prosecutors said the agents were reimbursed for "recruitment"
expenses.

Prosecutors would not say how many immigrants were involved.

Robert Hash, vice president of Tyson's retail fresh division, and Gerald
Lankford, a former human resources manager of the division, were charged, along
with three former managers at the Shelbyville, Tenn., plant and Snyder, who used
to work in Shelbyville.

In the past, Tyson officials have played down the company's role in the booming
Hispanic populations near its plants. Bedford County, where the Shelbyville
plant is situated, is home to Tennessee's highest concentration of Hispanics,
according to 2000 census figures.

Importing illegal aliens for commercial advantage can carry a mandatory minimum
sentence of five years in prison. Prosecutors are also seeking forfeiture of the
financial gain allegedly realized by Tyson and its man agers, which could result
in fines exceeding $100 million.

Tyson previously encountered legal problems when top executives were accused of
providing illegal gratuities to former U.S. Agriculture Secretary Mike Espy and
to Espy's girlfriend.

Tyson agreed to pay a $6 million fine in 1998 to settle allegations by a special
prosecutor that it had provided thousands of dollars in gifts, including
football tickets, plane fares and limousine rentals, to Espy while he was
agriculture secretary in Clinton's administration.

A federal jury acquitted Espy on all charges of improperly accepting gifts and
travel from companies that he regulated. Espy resigned in 1994 amid the charges.

LOAD-DATE: December 20, 2001

LANGUAGE: English

                  Copyright 2001 St. Louis Post-Dispatch, Inc.


                               4 of 275 DOCUMENTS

                       St. Louis Post-Dispatch (Missouri)

                  July 17, 2001 Tuesday Five Star Lift Edition

TALK OF AMNESTY CREATES EXCITEMENT AMONG HISPANICS

BYLINE: The Associated Press

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. A5

LENGTH: 243 words

DATELINE: MILWAUKEE


The chance that millions of illegal Mexican immigrants could be granted amnesty
set off a buzz in Hispanic communities Monday.

"It's a great idea," said Minnie Gonzales-Flores, one of about 12,000 people at
the National Council of La Raza meeting in Milwaukee.

"These families come here to work. They don't come here for handouts. They want
the American dream."

President George W. Bush is considering a plan that would grant amnesty to as
many as 3 million Mexicans living illegally in the United States. No decision is
imminent, and specifics of such a program haven't been worked out.

Press secretary Ari Fleischer said Monday that Bush was committed to working
with the Mexican government to ease "what has been a disorderly process" along
the 2,000-mile border.

Fleischer said that "regularization of undocumented Mexicans in the United
States" was being considered.

Major questions remain about administering any program of relaxed immigration
policies. They include how quickly immigrants could earn legal status and
whether they would gain it based on date of entry into the United States or by
their occupations. Congress would have to approve any proposal.

Mexican President Vicente Fox, who has urged Bush to consider legalization
steps, welcomed the development. Speaking Monday to the Economic Club of
Chicago, Fox said he is committed to "as many rights as possible for as many
Mexican immigrants as possible as soon as possible."

LOAD-DATE: July 17, 2001

LANGUAGE: English

                  Copyright 2001 St. Louis Post-Dispatch, Inc.


                               5 of 275 DOCUMENTS

                       St. Louis Post-Dispatch (Missouri)

                September 7, 2001 Friday Five Star Lift Edition

MEXICAN PRESIDENT ASKS AMERICANS FOR "TRUST" ON IMMIGRATION REFORM;
 ISSUE WILL REQUIRE COOPERATIVE EFFORT, VICENTE FOX SAYS

BYLINE: The Associated Press

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. A2

LENGTH: 562 words

DATELINE: WASHINGTON


Immigration reform may be too complex to complete by year's end, President
George W. Bush said Thursday in response to the plea of visiting Mexican
President Vicente Fox. Undaunted, Fox told Americans "we need your trust" to
swiftly legalize millions of undocumented immigrants.

Seeking to ease decades of cross-border suspicion, Fox addressed a joint session
of Congress and then flew with Bush aboard Air Force One to address Hispanic
voters in Toledo, Ohio.

"The time has come for Mexico and the United States to trust each other," Fox
said.

Bush embraced the Mexican's wish to soften U.S. immigration laws, but not his
goal to complete the work by year's end.

"This is an incredibly complex issue," the president said. One challenge will be
to legalize undocumented immigrants without being unfair to people who have been
following the rules and going through sluggish legal channels, he said.

"To make matters even more complicated, we've got to work with the Congress,"
Bush said, knowing conservatives in his own Republican Party have led the fight
against amnesty. "We've got to come up with a solution that Congress can
accept."

Administration officials said Bush was signaling to Fox that striking an
immigration deal probably will take more than the four months remaining in the
year.

Even so, Bush made sure Fox did not go home empty-handed from a 62-hour trip
designed to silence critics who claim the Mexican president has not lived up to
his promise. In a news conference before their trip, Bush:

* Promised to veto a transportation spending bill unless Congress drops new
safety standards for Mexican trucks using U.S. roads.

* Urged lawmakers to suspend a program requiring Mexico to get annual
certification that it has cooperated in the war against drugs.

* Tried to shield Fox from blame over a sagging Mexican economy, noting that
U.S. financial prospects affect other nations. Gesturing at Fox, the president
said, "He's getting blamed for something that's taking place in America."

Fox also got a ride aboard Marine One, the helicopter that was parked on the
South Lawn to sweep the leaders away to Air Force One and Ohio.

U.S. presidents rarely travel with their counterparts, but Bush clearly wanted
to put on a good show for Fox, his countrymen and Hispanic voters in America -
the fastest-growing voting bloc.

In Toledo, framed by oversized U.S. and Mexican flags, Bush called Fox "mi
amigo" and "special visitor." Fox told the large crowd that Americans need not
be afraid of eased immigration.

"We're partners building a better future for both of our nations," he said.

Immigrant bill clears Senate

Also Thursday, the Senate pushed through a bill extending by a year the deadline
for illegal immigrants to apply for visas. Majority Leader Tom Daschle had urged
lawmakers to finish the measure during Fox's visit.

"This is extremely important," Senate Democratic Whip Harry Reid of Nevada said
after the bill passed by voice vote. "With President Fox in the country, it
sends a message to him that we really are trying to work toward making things
easier in the relationship with the United States and Mexico."

The House passed its own version of the bill in May. It extended the visa
deadline by four months. But Republican leaders have agreed to go along with the
Senate-passed measure, White House officials said.

LOAD-DATE: September 7, 2001

LANGUAGE: English

GRAPHIC: PHOTO; Photo by the ASSOCIATED PRESS - Mexican President Vicente Fox
takes aim at a basketball hoop while accompanying President George W. Bush
during a visit to the Aurora Gonzalez Community Theater in Toledo, Ohio, on
Thursday. Fox pressed his case for immigration overhaul during the visit, after
a similar plea before Congress.

                  Copyright 2001 St. Louis Post-Dispatch, Inc.


                               6 of 275 DOCUMENTS

                       St. Louis Post-Dispatch (Missouri)

                  September 7, 2001 Friday Three Star Edition

MEXICAN PRESIDENT ASKS AMERICANS FOR "TRUST";
 IMMIGRATION REFORM REQUIRES COOPERATIVE EFFORT, VICENTE FOX SAYS

BYLINE: The Associated Press

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. A2

LENGTH: 635 words

DATELINE: WASHINGTON


Immigration reform may be too complex to complete by year's end, President
George W. Bush said Thursday in response to the plea of visiting Mexican
President Vicente Fox. Undaunted, Fox told Americans "we need your trust" to
swiftly legalize millions of undocumented immigrants.

Seeking to ease decades of cross-border suspicion, Fox addressed a joint session
of Congress and then flew with Bush aboard Air Force One to address Hispanic
voters in Toledo, Ohio.

"The time has come for Mexico and the United States to trust each other," Fox
said.

Bush embraced the Mexican's wish to soften U.S. immigration laws, but not his
goal to complete the work by year's end.

"This is an incredibly complex issue," the president said. One challenge will be
to legalize undocumented immigrants without being unfair to people who have been
following the rules and going through sluggish legal channels, he said.

"To make matters even more complicated, we've got to work with the Congress,"
Bush said, knowing conservatives in his own Republican Party have led the fight
against amnesty. "We've got to come up with a solution that Congress can
accept."

Administration officials said Bush was signaling to Fox - as he did in private
meetings - that striking an immigration deal probably will take more than the
four months remaining in the year.

Even so, Bush made sure Fox did not go home empty-handed from a 62-hour trip
designed to silence critics who claim the Mexican president has not lived up to
his promise. In a joint news conference before their trip, Bush:

* Promised to veto a transportation spending bill unless Congress drops new
safety standards for Mexican trucks using U.S. roads.

* Urged lawmakers to suspend a program requiring Mexico to get annual
certification that it has cooperated in the war against drugs.

* Tried to shield Fox from blame over a sagging Mexican economy, noting that
U.S. financial prospects affect other nations. Gesturing at Fox, the president
said, "He's getting blamed for something that's taking place in America."

Fox also got a ride aboard Marine One, the helicopter that was parked on the
South Lawn to sweep the leaders away to Air Force One and Ohio.

U.S. presidents rarely travel with their counterparts, but Bush clearly wanted
to put on a good show for Fox, his countrymen and Hispanic voters in America -
the fastest-growing voting bloc.

Bush won Ohio during last year's presidential election. But Democrat Al Gore won
Toledo, where Hispanics make up 5.5 percent of the population. Nationwide,
Hispanics make up 12.5 percent of the population, a 60 percent increase in a
decade.

In Toledo, framed by oversized U.S. and Mexican flags, Bush called Fox "mi
amigo" and "special visitor." Fox told the large crowd that Americans need not
be afraid of eased immigration.

"We're partners building a better future for both of our nations," he said.

Standing before Congress hours earlier, Fox said worries in the United States
and Mexico are deeply rooted in mistrust by people of both countries.

"In Mexico, they derive from a long-held sense of suspicion and apprehension
about its powerful neighbor," Fox said. "And in the United States, they stem
from previous experience with a political regime governing Mexico, which for the
most part was regarded as undemocratic and untrustworthy."

He was referring to the long-ruling party Fox threw out of office with his
election victory last year.

Bush said there was "a sense of urgency" about immigration reform and he pledged
to tackle it as soon as possible, not ruling out an agreement by year's end.

"We're trying to work through a formula that will not penalize the person who
has chosen the legal route, and at the same time recognizes the contribution the
undocumented (immigrant) has made."

LOAD-DATE: September 7, 2001

LANGUAGE: English

GRAPHIC: PHOTO; Photo by the ASSOCIATED PRESS - Mexican President Vicente Fox
takes aim at a basketball rim while accompanying President George W. Bush during
a visit to the Aurora Gonzalez Community Theater in Toledo, Ohio, on Thursday.
Fox pressed his case for immigration overhaul during the visit, after a similar
plea before Congress.

                  Copyright 2001 St. Louis Post-Dispatch, Inc.


                               7 of 275 DOCUMENTS

                       St. Louis Post-Dispatch (Missouri)

                  October 25, 2001 Thursday Three Star Edition

U.S. INDICTMENT ACCUSES 5 PEOPLE OF VIOLATING IMMIGRATION LAWS

BYLINE: The Associated Press

SECTION: METRO; Pg. C16

LENGTH: 287 words

DATELINE: SPRINGFIELD, MO.


Five people were indicted in federal court in Springfield for allegedly
violating immigration laws.

The indictments were returned Wednesday and involve three unrelated cases, said
Todd P. Graves, U.S. attorney for the Western District.

In the first case, Sebastian Beltran-Bueno, 34, of Mexico was indicted on a
charge of being in the United States after deportation. Authorities said
Beltran-Bueno was the co-driver of tractor-trailer at a Newton County weigh
station on Oct. 9, despite have been deported in 1995 and 1998 after a federal
conviction for drug trafficking.

If convicted, he faces a maximum of 20 years in prison and up to $250,000 in
fines.

In the second case, Victor Torres-Campos, 46, of Mexico was charged with
possession with intent to transfer or use five or more identification documents,
as well as false use of a Social Security number.

Authorities allege that he had 16 birth certificates and 14 Social Security
cards issued in the names of other people when he was found Oct. 5 in McDonald
County.

Torres-Campos faces up to eight years in prison and $500,000 in fines if
convicted as charged.

In the third case, Maurice Saustegui, 38, of Springfield, along with Marcelino
Fernandez-Martinez, 40, and Luz Victoria Rosas, 36, both of Mexico, were charged
with conspiracy to transfer false resident alien cards. They also were charged
with two counts each of transferring false resident alien cards.

Authorities allege the three conspired to traffic fraudulent U.S. identification
documents, including false and counterfeit resident alien cards, from July to
last month in Greene County.

If convicted, they each face up to 45 years in prison and up to $750,000 in
fines.

LOAD-DATE: October 25, 2001

LANGUAGE: English

                  Copyright 2001 St. Louis Post-Dispatch, Inc.


                               8 of 275 DOCUMENTS

                       St. Louis Post-Dispatch (Missouri)

                November 25, 2001 Sunday Five Star Lift Edition

WHAT WILL IT TAKE TO FIX INS?;
 SOME WANT IT DISBANDED; MOST AGREE VAST CHANGES ARE NEEDED

BYLINE: Deirdre Shesgreen Post-Dispatch Washington Bureau

SECTION: NEWSWATCH; Pg. B1

LENGTH: 1236 words

DATELINE: WASHINGTON


As investigators pieced together the evidence from the airplane attacks on the
World Trade Center and the Pentagon, they realized that three of the hijackers
had been in the country illegally after their visas expired. Definitive
immigration records for six other suspects could not be located.

That poor tracking and ineffective record-keeping are just two of the glaring
deficiencies in a system long a target for critics who complain that the
Immigration and Naturalization Service is a bureaucratic disaster.

The agency has two core functions: Enforcing immigration laws, and serving legal
immigrants who want to work in the United States or become citizens.

One study after another has said the INS does neither of those jobs well, due to
shortcomings that include a convoluted management structure and disjointed
communications. For years, immigration officials and members of Congress have
wrangled over how to overhaul the INS.

In the wake of the terrorist attacks, that goal took on a new urgency.

On Nov. 14, the Justice Department unveiled a plan to divide the agency in two,
with one bureau focused on law enforcement and the second geared toward
providing services.

"The terrorist attacks of Sept. 11 underscored in the most painful way for
Americans that we need better control over individuals coming to our shores from
other nations," Attorney General John Ashcroft said at a news conference
unveiling the restructuring plan.

He said the new framework would create a more streamlined, responsive system.

But some immigration experts and members of Congress say the plan will do little
to address long-standing problems that have plagued the agency.

"Separating the INS into two agencies might merely compound the deficiencies,"
Glenn Fine, inspector general at the Department of Justice, recently told a
House panel.

Sen. Dick Durbin, D-Ill., sits on the Senate's immigration subcommittee. "The
INS has been one of the most difficult agencies for Congress to work with and
one of the most difficult agencies to administer," Durbin said.

"The responsibilities are overwhelming and conflicting, and the resources have
been totally inadequate."

In his Oct. 17 appearance before the House panel, Fine said: "The INS has a
Byzantine management structure with overlapping functions and disconnected
chains of command."

Congress has sought to address some of the agency's problems with money: since
1993, lawmakers increased the INS budget 220 percent to almost $5 billion for
fiscal year 2001. Also in that time, the agency's work force has almost doubled,
from 18,000 to about 33,000 employees.

But problems have persisted, in no small measure because the INS has faced a
growing workload: the number of people seeking green cards, citizenship and
other services ballooned to more than 6 million in fiscal year 2000, almost a 50
percent increase since 1994.

By the end of last year, the INS had a backlog of 4 million applications.
Several lawmakers have said their constituents complain more about the
immigration agency than the Internal Revenue Service.

Because of poor management and inadequate technology, the district offices can't
tally the number of pending cases, can't deploy their staff based on workload,
or even make sure that applications are processed in the order they're received,
according to the General Accounting Office, Congress' investigative arm.

"Start from scratch"

Rep. James Sensenbrenner, R-Wis., chair of the Judiciary Committee, has
introduced legislation that would eliminate the INS. Like the Justice
Department's proposal, it would divide the two main INS functions into two
separate divisions. It would also establish a third agency to review decisions
of the other two.

Sensenbrenner says his bill goes farther than the Ashcroft plan. "The only way
to truly shake up the INS is to abolish it as we know it," he said, and "start
from scratch."

Others agree that dramatic steps are needed.

"I don't think changing the boxes around is necessarily going to do the job,"
said Rep. Richard Gephardt, D-St. Louis County.

He said the INS bureaucracy needs to be made more flexible and that new
technology would be the key to any real reform.

Richard Stana, an official with the General Accounting Office who has studied
the INS, said the agency doesn't have the "basic building blocks" needed to
function smoothly -- such as clear policies, well trained employees, and an
effective communications system.

"Unless those basic building blocks are in place, no matter how the INS is
structured or restructured, enforcing immigration laws is going to be
problematic," Stana said.

Glenn Fine, the Justice Department inspector general, said that simply splitting
the agency without addressing the underlying problems might just "exacerbate
coordination problems" that already plague the INS.

Mixed messages

Congress itself has sent conflicting signals about what it wants from the INS.

Lawmakers have passed stringent laws to crack down on illegal immigration, but
then expressed outrage when the INS goes after employers who hire illegal
workers.

In 1996, Congress passed a law requiring the INS to develop an automated entry
and exit system, so officials could identify immigrants who -- like some of the
hijackers -- had overstayed their visas. But then lawmakers delayed the deadline
for the INS to implement the system, giving the agency until the end of 2003 to
have it in place for airports and sea ports and the end of 2004 for high-traffic
land entry points.

"Congress likes the appearance of law enforcement but not the reality," said
Mark Krikorian, executive director of the Center for Immigration Studies, which
seeks to reduce immigration.

Krikorian said that what's really needed is a more coherent immigration policy.
"There is this fantasy in the White House and elsewhere that we can have a
system that keeps terrorists out but lets regular illegal aliens in," he said.
"But any border that a Mexican gardener can sneak across, an al-Qaida terrorist
can sneak across."

He suggested that the INS temporarily halt all legal immigration, so the agency
can focus on homeland security and updating its technology and management
systems.

Durbin said now is not the right time for such a major revision of immigration
policy; he worries that the post-Sept. 11 public sentiment could prompt Congress
to enact Draconian changes.

"I'm not sure they would be the right reforms if we pushed them through at this
moment," he said. "We need to calm the concerns we have about our immigration
population, which is overwhelmingly a law-abiding and positive contribution to
America."

=============

The Justice Department's restructuring proposal would:

* Split immigration services and enforcement into two separate bureaus.

* Eliminate regional and district director positions.

* Form an integrated law enforcement organization to respond quickly to
terrorism, human smuggling and other crimes.

* Assign an ombudsman in the enforcement division to deal with public concerns
and complaints.

==============

NEWS: The terrorist attacks of Sept. 11 highlighted the deficiencies of the
Immigration and Naturalization Service and its failure to enforce U.S. law.

ISSUE: The Justice Department has announced a plan that would split the INS in
two. Lawmakers now debate whether the plan would solve all of the agency's
problems.

LOAD-DATE: November 25, 2001

LANGUAGE: English

NOTES: THE IMMIGRATION AND NATURALIZATION SERVICE; Reporter Deirdre Shesgreen of
the Post-Dispatch Washington Bureau writes about Congress.; Reporter Deirdre
Shesgreen:; E-mail: dshesgreen@post-dispatch.com; Phone: 202-298-6880

GRAPHIC: PHOTO; (1) Color Photo by JOHN MOORE / THE ASSOCIATED PRESS - U.S.
Border Patrol agents stand watch over a group of illegal immigrants after
detaining them west of Laredo, Texas, in May. The terrorist attacks of Sept. 11
gave a new urgency to lawmakers who want to change the Immigration and
Naturalization Service.; (2) Photo by The Associated Press - Immigration and
Naturalization Service Commissioner James Ziglar speaks at a news conference
with Attorney General John Ashcroft to announce a Justice Department plan to
restructure his agency.

TYPE: PROFILE; THE IMMIGRATION AND NATURALIZATION SERVICE

                  Copyright 2001 St. Louis Post-Dispatch, Inc.


                               9 of 275 DOCUMENTS

                       St. Louis Post-Dispatch (Missouri)

                 December 3, 2001 Monday Five Star Lift Edition

BANKS TO LAWBREAKERS, "COME ON IN."

BYLINE: Michelle Malkin Copyright Creators Syndicate Inc.

SECTION: EDITORIAL; Michelle Malkin Column; Pg. B7

LENGTH: 595 words

DATELINE: WASHINGTON


ILLEGAL IMMIGRANTS

Some American banks just don't get it. Here we are, at war with deadly foreign
terrorists who exploited our lax immigration policies, and what are these U.S.
financial institutions doing? Making it easier for illegal immigrants to do
business inside our borders.

Earlier this month, California-based banking giant Wells Fargo proudly
publicized its plan to loosen identification guidelines for Mexican customers
who want to open American checking or savings accounts. Banks usually require
foreign customers to show passports as a primary form of ID, with credit cards
and Social Security numbers or federal taxpayer ID numbers as backup documents.
But now, as a result of heavy lobbying from the Mexican government and
Hispanic-American activists, Wells Fargo will accept an ID card issued by
Mexican consulate offices known as "matricula consular."

Any Mexican national living abroad (read: any illegal Mexican immigrant living
in the U.S.) can get the card by simply supplying proof of Mexican citizenship,
such as a birth certificate or voting card. No other secondary ID is needed if a
Wells Fargo customer signs a residency form from the Internal Revenue Service --
which emphasizes that it will not share the information with the Immigration and
Naturalization Service.

Not that clueless INS officials, who let Sept. 11 hijack ringleader Mohammed
Atta and his visa-overstaying alien conspirators slip through their fingers,
would do anything with the information, anyway. Tony Lew, an INS spokesman in
Los Angeles, told the Los Angeles Times that the agency has no problem with
Wells Fargo's new policy. "Our priorities are to go after illegal immigrants
involved in committing crime," he said. "If they are law-abiding citizens, we
don't have the resources to go looking f or them."

Memo to the INS: Illegal aliens are, by definition, law-breaking criminals. Good
grief. Will the INS ever learn? It's exactly this deaf, blind and dumb culture
toward illegal aliens that al-Qaida terrorists -- several of whom worked with
Hispanic immigration scam artists to obtain fake documents -- used to their
bloody advantage.

Backed by the feds, bank officials eager to cash in on the huge illegal alien
market -- and score a few P.C. brownie points -- are pulling out all the stops
to lower the bar for "undocumented" Mexican customers. "We welcome you to come
to one of our branches," Wells Fargo Bank vice president John Murillo crowed at
a Spanish-language news conference, "where we won't question your legal status."

U.S. Bancorp moved quickly to accept Mexican IDs following Wells Fargo's
announcement. Also accepting the Mexican consular cards: Firstar banks, Harris
Bank, Union Bank, and U.S. branches of the Puerto Rico-based Banco Popular. The
American Banker newspaper reports that Seattle-based Washington Mutual Inc. is
"actively looking into" loosening its ID policy for Mexicans.

Also following Wells Fargo's lead: local governments in California, such as
Orange County and San Francisco, which will now accept the consular cards as
identification so that illegal aliens jailed for "minor offenses" will not be
deported.

And Mexico is only the first step. Wells Fargo has said it is open to accepting
similar cards issued by other governments.

Once again, the convenience and comfort of illegal aliens overrides the safety
and security of American citizens. You think Osama bin Laden and his
America-hating followers around the world won't find a way to exploit this new
brainless program, too? You can bank on it.

LOAD-DATE: December 4, 2001

LANGUAGE: English

NOTES: COMMENTARY; cre8ors@aol.com

                  Copyright 2001 St. Louis Post-Dispatch, Inc.


                              10 of 275 DOCUMENTS

                       St. Louis Post-Dispatch (Missouri)

                 December 20, 2001 Thursday Three Star Edition

6 TYSON FOODS OFFICIALS FACE FEDERAL CHARGES OF SMUGGLING IMMIGRANTS;
 SCHEME INCLUDED TWO MISSOURI PLANTS, AUTHORITIES SAY

BYLINE: News Services Jim Gallagher And Phyllis Brasch Librach Of The
Post-Dispatch Contributed To This Report.

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. A1

LENGTH: 762 words

DATELINE: CHATTANOOGA, TENN.


Six executives and managers of Tyson Foods Inc. were accused Wednesday of
smuggling illegal Mexican immigrants into the country to work at the processing
plants of the world's largest poultry company.

The federal indictment said one of the managers had told an undercover agent
that the company would pay $200 for each illegal alien delivered.

The indictment, unsealed Wednesday in U.S. District Court in Chattanooga, also
said the managers had helped the immigrants obtain false documents to work in
the United States, hoping that the cheap labor would help Tyson cut costs and
meet production goals.

Among those indicted was Keith Snyder, former complex manager at Tyson's
operation at Noel, in Missouri's far southwestern corner. Tyson's plants in Noel
and Sedalia were among 15 plants in nine states involved in the scheme, the
Justice Department said.

Noel Mayor John P. Baucom reacted with surprise to word of the federal
indictment. "I'm flabbergasted over all this," said Baucom, the top elected
official in Noel, a town of almost 1,500.

Baucom described Snyder as "an all-American boy."

"He doesn't strike me as the kind of person who would do something illegally,"
Baucom said. "He's just logical. If there is a problem, he will try to help you
take care of it. He can meet you one-on-one and see both sides."

Ken Kimbro, a spokesman for Tyson, called "the prosecutor's claim in this
indictment of a corporate conspiracy . . . absolutely false."

Kimbro said the charges were limited to a few managers who acted on their own.
He said that four had been fired and that two others had been placed on leave
pending the outcome of the case.

"This indictment came because Tyson refused to agree to the prosecutor's
outrageous financial demands," Kimbro said. The Arkansas-based company refused
to elaborate on the alleged demands.

According to the indictment, the company cultivated a corporate culture in which
the hiring of illegal immigrant workers was condoned to meet production goals
and to cut costs to maximize profits. The scheme dated back to 1994, the
indictment stated.

"The Department of Justice is committed to vigorously investigating and
prosecuting companies or individuals who exploit immigrants and violate our
nation's immigration laws. The bottom line on the corporate balance sheet is no
excuse for criminal conduct," Assistant Attorney General Michael Chertoff said
in a statement.

Tyson is one of the world's largest poultry, beef and pork processors, with
120,000 employees and sales last year of $23.8 billion.

The indictment was handed up after a 2 1/2-year undercover investigation by the
Immigration and Naturalization Service.

"This case represents the first time the (immigration service) has taken action
against a company of Tyson's magnitude," said James Ziglar, commissioner of the
agency.

According to prosecutors, undercover agents working for Tyson were directed by
company managers to pick up immigrants at the Mexican border and take them to
processing plants. Prosecutors said the agents were reimbursed for "recruitment"
expenses.

Prosecutors would not say how many immigrants were involved.

Robert Hash, vice president of Tyson's retail fresh division, and Gerald
Lankford, a former human resources manager of the division, were charged, along
with three former managers at the Shelbyville, Tenn., plant and Snyder, who used
to work in Shelbyville.

In the past, Tyson officials have played down the company's role in the booming
Hispanic populations near its plants. Bedford County, where the Shelbyville
plant is situated, is home to Tennessee's highest concentration of Hispanics,
according to 2000 census figures.

Importing illegal aliens for commercial advantage can carry a mandatory minimum
sentence of five years in prison. Prosecutors are also seeking forfeiture of the
financial gain allegedly realized by Tyson Foods and its managers.

Tyson previously encountered legal problems when top executives were accused of
providing illegal gratuities to former U.S. Agriculture Secretary Mike Espy and
to Espy's girlfriend.

Tyson agreed to pay a $6 million fine in 1998 to settle allegations by a special
prosecutor that it had provided thousands of dollars in gifts, including
football tickets, plane fares and limousine rentals, to Espy while he was
agriculture secretary in President Bill Clinton's administration.

A federal jury acquitted Espy on all charges of improperly accepting gifts and
travel from companies that he regulated. Espy resigned in 1994 amid the charges.

LOAD-DATE: December 20, 2001

LANGUAGE: English

                  Copyright 2001 St. Louis Post-Dispatch, Inc.


                              11 of 275 DOCUMENTS

                       St. Louis Post-Dispatch (Missouri)

                  May 1, 2001, Tuesday, FIVE STAR LIFT EDITION

IMMIGRANTS CROWD OFFICES ON DEADLINE FOR AMNESTY;
MONDAY WAS LAST DAY FOR MANY TO APPLY FOR LEGAL RESIDENT STATUS

BYLINE: The Associated Press

SECTION: NEWS, Pg. A3

LENGTH: 474 words

DATELINE: NEW YORKU.S. RESIDENCY APPLICATION; INS POLICY; GREEN CARD;
APPLICATION IMMIGRATION POLICY


Illegal immigrants across the country turned out in extraordinary numbers and
stood in line for hours in an effort to beat Monday's deadline for applying for
legal residency under a new federal law.

In Albuquerque, N.M., they camped overnight outside the Immigration and
Naturalization Service office. In Charlotte, N.C., parents hoisted infants in
their arms in a line that snaked around a building.

In Philadelphia, they marched into a truck, where application photos were taken
assembly-line style. And in New York, about 500 people lined up to file
applications.

The Legal Immigration and Family Equity Act, which took effect in December, will
allow about 640,000 illegal immigrants to seek green cards - the official card
issued by the government to lawful immigrants - without first returning to their
home countries. That is significant because most illegal immigrants who leave
the United States are barred from re-entering for up to 10 years.

To apply, an immigrant must be sponsored by an employer or by a close relative
who is a U.S. citizen or legal permanent resident.

Anticipating the rush of immigrants, immigration service offices from Albany,
N.Y., to Yakima, Wash., extended their hours until midnight.

Among the hundreds of people in lines wrapped around the Detroit office was
Rebecca Nava, who traveled 140 miles from Grand Rapids, Mich., to seek legal
status for her husband, a Mexican citizen.

"It seems like everybody who comes over here doesn't want to go back because
life (in Mexico) is so difficult," she said.

For immigrants without a sponsor, marriage to a U.S. citizen can be the fastest
route to legal status. One byproduct of the new federal law was a rush to the
altar in cities with high immigrant populations.

Paula Pagan, a wedding clerk in New York, said she performed 255 ceremonies on
Friday alone.

Danny Ang of Malaysia, waiting in the immigration service line nearby, said he
was frustrated that he could not take that route to citizenship. "I'm a gay guy,
so I can't get married just for the paper," Ang said. "I don't even know if I
have the right forms now. Maybe I should just give it up."

Elaine Komis, an immigration service spokeswoman, said the agency would not know
for several weeks how many immigrants had filed applications. But she said
petitions from relatives hoping to sponsor immigrants suggest that the
applications are on a record pace. The prior record dates to 1998, just before
the deadline for a similar law.

Although many applicants admitted to procrastination, some said it simply took
time and money to get their papers in order.

Henry Harrison was waiting in Miami with his wife, Kimberly. They said they had
known about the deadline since November but needed time to raise the $ 1,000
application fee and $ 455 in additional costs.

LOAD-DATE: May 1, 2001

LANGUAGE: English

GRAPHIC: PHOTO AGENCE FRANCE-PRESSE Photo - An official gives instructions to a
crowd Monday outside an immigration office in Chicago. A new law allows illegal
immigrants to apply for residency without first returning to their home
countries.

                  Copyright 2001 St. Louis Post-Dispatch, Inc.


                              12 of 275 DOCUMENTS

                       St. Louis Post-Dispatch (Missouri)

                 May 2, 2001, Wednesday, FIVE STAR LIFT EDITION

IMMIGRANT SLIPS IN UNDER DEADLINE TO STAY IN U.S.;
MEMBERS OF CONGRESS BACK EXTENDING PROGRAM

BYLINE: Brandy Warren; Of The Post-DispatchIMMIGRATION LAW; NATIVE; NATURALIZED
CITIZEN; DEADLINE; PAPERWORK ELECTED REPRESENTATIVES; GREEN CARD; VISA;
RELATIVES; EXTENSION

SECTION: METRO, Pg. B1

LENGTH: 697 words



Francisco Padilla Lopez can consider himself among the lucky.

Like thousands of immigrants across the country, Lopez, who lives in O'Fallon,
Mo., and works for a refrigeration company in Warrenton, slipped in under the
Monday deadline of a federal law allowing illegal immigrants to remain in the
United States while they apply for permanent residency.

Normally, illegal immigrants would have to leave the country for up to 10 years
while they apply for permanent status. Now, Lopez can stay with his wife Dana
Padilla, a native St. Louisan.

"They barely made it," said their attorney, Dorothy Harper, who filed the papers
for Lopez at the Immigration and Naturalization office in St. Louis. "They
didn't have a moment to spare."

But a number of illegal immigrants in the St. Louis area and around the country
weren't able to take advantage of the law. Spurred by Monday's surge of
applications, President George W. Bush on Tuesday asked Congress to extend the
deadline, and some members of the area's congressional delegation say they would
support an extension.

In a statement released Tuesday, House Minority Leader Richard Gephardt, D-St.
Louis County, said: "We welcome President Bush's statement in support of
extending the deadline ... It is unfortunate that the president decided to wait
until the thirteenth hour to support an extension of this program."

U.S. Sen. Jean Carnahan, D-Mo., and U.S. Rep. William Lacy Clay Jr., D-St.
Louis, also support an extension.

U.S. Sen. Richard Durbin, D-Illinois, is a co-sponsor to legislation introduced
by Sen. Chuck Hagel, R-Nebraska, that would extend the deadline to April 30,
2002.

"The time for Congress to act is now," Durbin said in a statement. "It is a
simple matter of fairness. Without this provision, we are forcing illegal
immigrants to choose between risking not being able to re-enter the United
States and risking deportment if they stay here without a visa."

U.S. Rep. John Shimkus, R-Collinsville, "may support a reasonable extension" for
those immigrants unable to meet Monday's deadline, a spokesman from the Illinois
congressman's office said.

The law, which went into effect in December, came just in time for Lopez.  In
December, he was pulled over by police, who found that his Social Security
number was not valid. That led to a further investigation which revealed that
Lopez's divorce from a previous marriage to a woman in Mexico was not final. He
and Padilla were not legally married.

Lopez finally secured a divorce from his first wife on April 23 and the next day
he legally married Padilla. The marriage, to an American citizen, allowed Lopez
to file a relative petition to keep him in the country until a visa becomes
available.

Local immigration attorneys are also supporting a deadline extension.

"I don't think there's a lawyer (in immigration law) in town that doesn't think
this is a wonderful idea," said attorney Robert Cox, who has submitted about 75
applications in a little more than four months. "This is a way to back people
out of the shadows."

Immigration and Naturalization offices across the nation stayed open late Monday
to allow illegal aliens to apply for permanent residency. Chester Moyer, head of
the Immigration and Naturalization Service office in St. Louis, said the office
received about 200 applications Monday n ight, with the last people rushing in
about 11:45 p.m. The office averages about 600 applications a month.

In other parts of the country, the numbers were quite larger. The Chicago
office, the only Immigration and Naturalization Service office in Illinois where
applicants could file applications Monday, received about 2,300 applications,
with lines wrapping around the building in the early morning. The Chicago office
had received an additional 5,000 applications since the law took effect in
December.

In the past, when illegal aliens wanted to apply for permanent residency, they
had to apply in their home country. Under the new law, illegal immigrants can
pay a $ 1,000 penalty for being in the United States illegally.

Earning a visa would allow them to stay in the country and seek a green card.

LOAD-DATE: May 2, 2001

LANGUAGE: English

                  Copyright 2001 St. Louis Post-Dispatch, Inc.


                              13 of 275 DOCUMENTS

                       St. Louis Post-Dispatch (Missouri)

                     May 25, 2001 Friday Three Star Edition

14 FROM MEXICO DIE IN ARIZONA DESERT ATTEMPTING TO CROSS INTO U.S. ILLEGALLY;
 SMUGGLERS LEAVE ABOUT 26 MEN AND BOYS WITHOUT WATER IN 115-DEGREE HEAT

BYLINE: The Associated Press

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. A2

LENGTH: 487 words

DATELINE: YUMA, ARIZ.


Walk a couple of hours, and you'll reach a highway, the smugglers said. We'll be
back with water.

Members of the group of illegal immigrants, all of them from Mexico, apparently
had no idea they would have to cross more than 50 miles of desert to reach the
closest road. And they lacked the water and the know-how to survive the
115-degree heat.

On Thursday, five days after the men and teen-age boys set out to enter the
United States through southwestern Arizona, 14 of them were dead from exposure.
It was the deadliest attempt to cross the border in Arizona history.

They were caught in an area Border Patrol agents call The Devil's Path, brutal
country east of Yuma. The area has become increasingly popular with border
crossers because of stepped-up patrols elsewhere.

Twelve people survived, with at least one telling doctors that he drank his own
urine in desperation.

Fighting the same heat that ravaged the immigrants, searchers followed tracks in
the hope of finding other survivors. Border Patrol agents said they believed
there could be one more person still in the desert.

Government officials in both countries issued a statement promising cooperation
in an effort to prosecute the smugglers, fight immigrant trafficking along the
border, and reach new agreements on migration and border safety.

Mexican officials said they had identified a suspect believed to be one of the
smugglers. The smugglers could face charges of immigrant smuggling and murder,
said Ruben Beltran, the Mexican consul general in Phoenix.

The search started Wednesday morning, when Border Patrol agents found four
sunburned, dehydrated men, who told them of others in trouble.

Over the next 24 hours, search parties discovered six clusters of immigrants -
some living, some dead - who had scattered. Two men made it within 10 miles of
Interstate 8, the highway they were trying to reach.

"Have you ever seen a mummy from ancient Egypt? That gives you an idea," said
Dr. David Haynes, who treated survivors at Yuma Regional Med ical Center. "They
looked shriveled up."

The survivors were treated for severe dehydration and kidney damage. Doctors
said that they do not expect to release them for at least a week and that some
would have lifelong kidney problems.

Southern Arizona has been a popular crossing point for illegal immigrants since
the 1990s, after crackdowns in California and Texas pushed more people to try to
enter the country through more remote and more dangerous areas.

The Border Patrol said 106 people have died while crossing southern Arizona's
deserts during the 12 months that ended Sept. 30.

"Nobody should be surprised by these deaths," said Claudia Smith, a lawyer for
the California Rural Legal Assistance Foundation, an advocacy group. "They are
an entirely foreseeable consequence of moving the migrant traffic out of the
urban areas and into the most remote and dangerous areas."

LOAD-DATE: May 25, 2001

LANGUAGE: English

NOTES: A shorter version of this story appeared in the Five Star Lift edition.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO; Photo by THE ASSOCIATED PRESS - A man found in the desert near
Yuma, Ariz., is wheeled into the Yuma Regional Medical Center on Wednesday by a
Marine search and rescue team member and an emergency room staff member.

                  Copyright 2001 St. Louis Post-Dispatch, Inc.


                              14 of 275 DOCUMENTS

                       St. Louis Post-Dispatch (Missouri)

                  May 29, 2001 Tuesday Five Star Lift Edition

IMMIGRANTS FILL PAUPER'S CEMETERY IN CALIFORNIA TOWN

BYLINE: The Associated Press

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. A4

LENGTH: 426 words

DATELINE: HOLTVILLE, CALIF.


The two men were buried May 17 in a dirt lot at the edge of the Southern
California desert.

A long path and tall bushes set their graves apart from the ornate headstones at
the local cemetery.

No relatives were present as the men were buried in less than 15 minutes.

No one knows who they were.

Authorities believe they were illegal immigrants from Mexico, two more among the
hundreds who die each year while trying to cross into the United States.

"I'm sure their families are waiting for them to return home, and here they are
today being buried," said Bibi Jaime, an apprentice funeral director who read a
brief prayer.

Unidentified immigrants are filling the Holtville pauper's cemetery, which
opened in 1995, two months after a U.S. border crackdown began in San Diego that
pushed migrants eastward to the deserts of Southern California and Arizona.

Since then, Imperial County has buried 122 unidentified immigrants, said Dennis
Jones, superintendent of the cemetery district that manages the one-acre site in
Holtville, a farm town 120 miles east of San Diego.

Jaime, an immigrant from Mexico, has presided over several dozen John Doe
funerals in the past three years. He expects to see more as immigrants continue
to risk desert crossings.

"I wish we could do something to stop them coming across the way they do," he
said. "I wish they could see what goes on out here."

The bodies of immigrants known to be from a certain country are generally
returned there, often with that nation paying some of the cost. But many don't
carry identification or it is lost or stolen during their journey.

Of the 491 immigrants who died entering the United States last year through
Mexico, 114 were classified as unidentified, according to a Mexican government
report.

Immigrant deaths happen regularly in the Imperial Valley, a sparsely populated
region of deserts and mountains that supports an agricultural economy via a
network of canals that carries Colorado River water to the area.

The El Centro division of the Border Patrol - which includes the Imperial Valley
- recorded 77 deaths last year, higher than any other sector patrolled by the
agency for the second year in a row.

Most are caused by exposure or from drowning in the All-American Canal, a
fast-moving waterway that parallels the border for 82 miles. Last year, 26
drowned; the 11 that have died there so far this year included the two men
buried May 17.

As summer approaches, deaths are expected to increase as immigrants risk
drowning in the seemingly calm waters.

LOAD-DATE: May 29, 2001

LANGUAGE: English

NOTES: IN THE NEWS: DEATH AT THE BORDER

TYPE: PROFILE; IMMIGRATION; BURIAL CEMETERY; SIDEBAR STORY

                  Copyright 2001 St. Louis Post-Dispatch, Inc.


                              15 of 275 DOCUMENTS

                       St. Louis Post-Dispatch (Missouri)

             July 4, 2001 Wednesday Illinois Five Star Lift Edition

LAW & ORDER

SECTION: METRO; Law & Order Column; Pg. B2

LENGTH: 585 words


COLLINSVILLE

Man gets one-year term for transporting migrants

Miguel Sanchez-Cano, 29, of Mexico City, was sentenced Monday in federal court
in East St. Louis to one year and one day in prison for unlawful transportation
of illegal immigrants.

Collinsville police said Sanchez-Cano was carrying 13 people when they stopped
his van April 11 on Interstate 55-70 near Illinois Route 159.

Two other men pleaded guilty to the same charge Monday in a separate case. Oscar
Aguazul, 35, and Jose Contreras-Gonzales, 34, both from Mexico, were stopped
April 19 by Okawville police in Washington County.

All of the illegal immigrants involved have been returned to Mexico, said
Assistant U.S. Attorney Robert Garrison.

ST. CHARLES

Man gets 8 years in sexual assault

Matthew Meier, 25, of St. Charles, was sentenced in St. Charles County Circuit
Court last week to eight years in prison after pleading guilty to sexually
assaulting a teen-age boy he met on the Internet. Meier could have gotten life
in prison.

The sentence will be added to a four-year sentence he received on a federal
charge of using the Internet to try to induce minors to engage in sex acts. He
also must complete a federal treatment program for sex offenders.

Federal authorities said that from October 1999 to February 2000, Meier used his
computer to send messages and nude pictures to four juveniles, all from St.
Charles County. He asked them to have sex for money, authorities said.

Meier was charged with first-degree statutory sodomy in St. Charles County after
getting one teen-age boy to come to his home in the 200 block of Gumtree Drive
and sexually assaulting him in January last year, authorities said.

When the charges were filed, Meier was working as a classroom aide for Wild
Horse Elementary School in Chesterfield, which is part of the Rockwood School
District.

ST. LOUIS

Teen's death is linked to killing

Identification of a teen-ager found slain in a St. Louis alley added a new link
to one of two other killings about the same time, police said Tuesday.

Keith Gray, 14, the victim, had been staying with Johnny Huntley, 20, who was
dropped off mortally wounded at St. Louis University Hospital on Monday morning,
authorities said. Even before figuring out who Gray was, detectives realized
from ballistics tests that both were killed with the same gun.

A 22-year-old man reported to have been with both victims Sunday night was
sought Tuesday for questioning.

It remained unclear whether the Gray and Huntley killings were connected to the
shooting of Davon Steward, 16, who was attacked in the same area of the city
early Monday.

Two men dropped Huntley at St. Louis University Hospital shortly before 3 a.m.
and left before police arrived. Huntley was pronounced dead a short time later.

Police believe Huntley was shot in the chest on a service station parking lot in
the 1500 block of South Grand Boulevard.

Gray's body was found in an alley behind Gravois Avenue, near South Grand,
shortly after 6 a.m. Monday, but police believe he was killed between 2:30 and 3
a.m.

They said they learned that Gray recently had been staying with Huntley in the
3200 block of Michigan Avenue and that the two had left Huntley's home Sunday
evening with the man now wanted for questioning.

Police said the killing of Steward might be linked to the Huntley-Gray
homicides. Steward was found critically wounded with a gunshot to the head
shortly before 3 a.m. Monday in the 4200 block of Shaw Boulevard.

LOAD-DATE: July 4, 2001

LANGUAGE: English

                  Copyright 2001 St. Louis Post-Dispatch, Inc.


                              16 of 275 DOCUMENTS

                       St. Louis Post-Dispatch (Missouri)

                   July 6, 2001 Friday Five Star Lift Edition

WORLD

BYLINE: From News Services

SECTION: NEWS; World Briefs Column; Pg. A7

LENGTH: 575 words


NORTH AMERICA

MEXICO

Police who aid traffickers face arrest, official says

Investigators will soon begin large-scale arrests of corrupt police who helped
traffickers make southern Mexico into a huge illegal immigration pipeline to the
United States, a top official said Thursday.

President Vicente Fox toured Mexico's southern border Thursday to oversee
efforts to tighten security there and stamp out corruption that fuels
trafficking in Central American immigrants.

Traffickers pay off police and immigration inspectors to maintain a trade more
profitable than drug trafficking, said Alejandro Cossio, the top immigration
official in the Gulf coast state of Veracruz.

EUROPE

RUSSIA

34 nations OK plan to track diamond trade

Representatives of 34 nations meeting in Moscow on Thursday approved the basics
of a system for tracking diamonds from the mine to the display case. The
tracking is intended to help limit the illicit trade in "blood diamonds" from
Africa.

Nchakha Moloi, a special adviser of South Africa's Ministry of Minerals and
Energy, said that the system is not expected to increase costs or make diamonds
more expensive for consumers.

Black-market diamonds, also called blood diamonds, are funding wars in countries
such as Angola, Sierra Leone and the Democratic Republic of Congo.

Moloi said the system approved at the Moscow meeting involves the use of
certificates that would accompany uncut diamonds from the mine. Currently,
diamond trading requires documentation stating only the country from which the
gem was last exported.

SOUTH AMERICA

PERU

Ex-spy chief is still on hunger strike, officials say

Ex-spy chief Vladimiro Montesinos maintained a hunger strike Thursday, contrary
to reports that he had resumed eating when his family was allowed to prepare his
food, officials said.

Montesinos was captured in Venezuela on June 23 after an eight-month
international manhunt. He started a hunger strike a week ago after his transfer
to the maximum-security navy base prison in Lima's Port of Callao.

On Wednesday, court spokeswoman Rosa Ortega said Montesinos had resumed eating
after Judge Saul Pena Farfan gave authorization for him to receive food prepared
by family members. But prison officials told reporters Thursday that Montesinos
had "rejected that possibility."

ASIA

TAIWAN

Typhoon kills 37, heads toward China

Typhoon Utor swirled over southern Taiwan and the northern Philippines on
Thursday, killing 37 people, flooding homes, triggering mudslides and stranding
hikers before barreling toward China.

In Vietnam, 22 people were killed in flooding related to Typhoon Durian.

Before hitting Taiwan, Typhoon Utor killed 36 people in the Philippines, where
16 others were missing and an estimated 25,000 were forced from their homes.

MIDDLE EAST

YEMEN

Nation will delay trial in bombing of Cole

Yemen has completed its inquiry into the deadly bombing Oct. 12 of the destroyer
Cole but will honor a U.S. request to delay the trial, the interior minister was
quoted as saying Thursday.

Yemeni authorities say eight people have confessed to roles in the bombing of
the Cole in the Yemeni port of Aden. Seventeen American sailors were killed and
39 others injured in the blast.

"The Yemen side has closed the file on the investigation of the Cole. And it is
ready to be sent to the court," Interior Minister Rashad al-Eleimi told the
Yemeni armed forces weekly newspaper 26 September.

LOAD-DATE: July 6, 2001

LANGUAGE: English

NOTES: NATION & WORLD

                  Copyright 2001 St. Louis Post-Dispatch, Inc.


                              17 of 275 DOCUMENTS

                       St. Louis Post-Dispatch (Missouri)

                     July 6, 2001 Friday Three Star Edition

WORLD

BYLINE: From News Services

SECTION: NEWS; World Briefs Column; Pg. A7

LENGTH: 560 words


NORTH AMERICA

MEXICO

Police who aid traffickers face arrest, official says

Investigators will soon begin large-scale arrests of corrupt police who helped
traffickers make southern Mexico into a huge illegal immigration pipeline to the
United States, a top official said Thursday.

Underlining the seriousness of the problem, President Vicente Fox toured
Mexico's southern border Thursday to oversee efforts to tighten security there
and stamp out corruption that fuels trafficking in Central American immigrants.

Traffickers allegedly pay off police and immigration inspectors to maintain a
trade more profitable than drug trafficking, said the top immigration official
in the gulf coast state of Veracruz, Alejandro Cossio.

SOUTH AMERICA

PERU

Ex-spy chief is still on hunger strike, officials say

Ex-spy chief Vladimiro Montesinos maintained a hunger strike Thursday, contrary
to reports that he had resumed eating when his family was allowed to prepare his
food, officials said.

Montesinos was captured in Venezuela on June 23 after an eight-month
international manhunt. He started a hunger strike a week ago after his transfer
to the maximum-security navy base prison in Lima's Port of Callao.

On Wednesday, court spokeswoman Rosa Ortega said Montesinos had resumed eating
after Judge Saul Pena Farfan gave authorization for him to receive food prepared
by family members. But prison officials told reporters Thursday that Montesinos
"had also rejected that possibility."

ASIA

TAIWAN

Typhoon kills 37, heads toward China

Typhoon Utor swirled over southern Taiwan and the northern Philippines on
Thursday, killing 37 people, flooding homes, triggering mudslides and stranding
hikers before barreling toward China.

Separately, in Vietnam, 22 people were killed in flooding related to Typhoon
Durian.

Before hitting Taiwan, Typhoon Utor killed 36 people in the Philippines, where
16 others were missing and an estimated 25,000 were forced from their homes.

MIDDLE EAST

YEMEN

Nation will delay trial in Cole bombing

Yemen has completed its inquiry into the deadly bombing of the destroyer Cole,
but will honor a U.S. request to delay the trial, the interior minister was
quoted as saying Thursday.

Yemeni authorities say eight people have confessed to roles in the bombing of
the Cole in the Yemeni port of Aden. Seventeen American sailors were killed and
39 others injured in the Oct. 12 blast.

"The Yemen side has closed the file on the investigation of the Cole. A nd it is
ready to be sent to the court," Interior Minister Rashad al-Eleimi told the
Yemeni armed forces weekly newspaper 26 September.

AFRICA

CONGO

Villages reportedly killed 200 suspected witches

Villagers have hacked to death about 200 suspected witches in rebel-held
northeastern Congo since June 15, blaming them for diseases that have gone
untreated since Congo's war broke out three years ago, a senior Ugandan army
official said Thursday.

Ugandan troops, which had withdrawn this year from the district near the border,
were sent back to the area to stop the killings and make arrests, Brig. Henry
Tumukunde said.

"Villagers were saying that some people had bewitched others, and they started
lynching them. By the time we discovered this, 60 people had already been killed
by early last week. About 200 people lost their lives," Tumukunde said.

LOAD-DATE: July 6, 2001

LANGUAGE: English

NOTES: NATION & WORLD

                  Copyright 2001 St. Louis Post-Dispatch, Inc.


                              18 of 275 DOCUMENTS

                       St. Louis Post-Dispatch (Missouri)

                  July 16, 2001 Monday Five Star Lift Edition

TASK FORCE CONSIDERS PLAN TO OFFER PERMANENT RESIDENCY TO ILLEGAL MEXICAN
IMMIGRANTS;
 OPTIONS FOR DEALING WITH BORDER ISSUES MAY BE READY FOR BUSH IN SEPTEMBER

BYLINE: The Associated Press

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. A3

LENGTH: 456 words

DATELINE: WASHINGTON


The administration of President George W. Bush is considering granting legal
residency to millions of undocumented Mexican immigrants living in the United
States.

Such amnesty, requiring the approval of Congress, would give a permanent
reprieve to certain Mexicans living undercover in this country, largely in the
border states. It also could be a political boon to the Republican president as
he seeks Hispanic support.

There are 3 million Mexican-born people living illegally in the United States,
according to a report last week by Mexico's National Population Council.

An immigration task force of top Justice and State Department officials planned
to send Bush a report today on the broad outlines of U.S.-Mexico border issues.
It will recommend that the United States take action to address illegal
immigration, but will stop short of offering concrete proposals, a Justice
Department official said Sunday.

The task force is considering several options, including a proposal to give the
illegal Mexican immigrants permanent residency, said the official, speaking on
the condition of anonymity. That is what Mexican President Vicente Fox has been
pressing Bush for.

The official said major unanswered questions include how quickly the immigrants
could earn legal status, and whether they would gain such status based on date
of entry into the United States, or by occupation, such as farm worker.

The working group was formed after Bush and Fox met in February. Attorney
General John Ashcroft and Secretary of State Colin Powell lead the task force,
which hopes to have recommendations on such questions by September, when Bush
and Fox meet in Washington.

Ashcroft will meet with Mexican officials in California and Arizona this month
to discuss border issues. He and Powell also will meet with their Mexican
counterparts early next month.

The preliminary report will be presented to Bush as Fox completes a five-day
visit to the United States this week. Fox was to meet with U.S. auto executives
and union officials today in Detroit.

Sen. John McCain, R-Ariz., said he would back the kind of amnesty move now under
consideration.

"I believe that these people are living here, and it's a recognition of reality.
They are working here," he said on NBC's "Meet the Press."

But Sen. Trent Lott, R-Miss., sounded a more cautious note.

"Just to summarily grant legal status to 3 million people, many of them that got
here illegally and have violated the law while they're here - I'd want to make
sure we do this carefully," he said on "Fox News Sunday."

Some Democrats also object, mindful of union fears that guest-worker and amnesty
programs could drive down wages and decrease job opportunities for Americans.

LOAD-DATE: July 16, 2001

LANGUAGE: English

                  Copyright 2001 St. Louis Post-Dispatch, Inc.


                              19 of 275 DOCUMENTS

                       St. Louis Post-Dispatch (Missouri)

                 July 18, 2001 Wednesday Five Star Lift Edition

MEXICAN PRESIDENT CALLS FOR U.S. TO GRANT LEGAL STATUS TO UNDOCUMENTED
IMMIGRANTS;
 FOX ALSO WANTS EASIER ACCESS TO EDUCATION HERE

BYLINE: The Associated Press

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. A3

LENGTH: 379 words

DATELINE: MILWAUKEE


Mexican President Vicente Fox said Tuesday he wants legalization for
undocumented immigrants in the United States and easier access to higher
education and drivers licenses for Mexican workers who have crossed the border.

"Our goal is to legalize migrant flows between our two countries," Fox said in a
speech to the National Council of La Raza, a Hispanic American group meeting in
Milwaukee.

The Mexican president said he wants "to lend greater security and orderliness to
the migrant flows between Mexico and the United States."

Fox's comments followed news that the Bush administration is weighing a plan to
grant amnesty to up to 3 million Mexicans living illegally in the United States.

Fox outlined several points for a potential Mexican-American agreement on
immigration issues that would go further than just granting legal status to
illegal immigrants.

In addition to that, he called for:

* Unclogging legal channels for migrants coming to the United States by
exempting Mexico and Canada from some limits on immigration.

* Giving Mexican workers expanded opportunities to obtain temporary work visas,
so they can enter the United States safely and legally.

* Allowing Mexican workers, regardless of legal status, access to drivers
licenses and university educations.

* Fueling economic growth in Mexico, thereby reducing the number of people who
feel compelled to cross the border.

"We must work hard to create opportunities for our fellow Mexicans to stay," Fox
said.

Fox got a standing ovation as he entered a packed ballroom and spoke to an
audience of about 2,300 people, some of whom waved Mexican flags.

In the past, the Fox administration has been vague on the issue of legalizing
immigrants living and working in the United States, said Cecilia Munoz, La
Raza's vice president for policy.

"Today he stated very clearly they support it," Munoz said. "The community's
very excited about the promise of an agreement between the U.S. and Mexico that
could include a legalization program."

On legalization, Fox said that such a program would "allow immigrants who work
hard, pay taxes and abide by the law to be treated equally and to travel
freely."

The La Raza meeting was Fox's last big stop on a five-day visit to the United
States.

LOAD-DATE: July 18, 2001

LANGUAGE: English

GRAPHIC: PHOTO; AGENCE FRANCE-PRESSE Photo - Mexican President Vicente Fox
greets the crowd Tuesday after addressing the National Conference of La Raza in
Milwaukee. Fox outlined a five-part proposal for easing restrictions faced by
illegal Mexican immigrants.

                  Copyright 2001 St. Louis Post-Dispatch, Inc.


                              20 of 275 DOCUMENTS

                       St. Louis Post-Dispatch (Missouri)

               July 19, 2001 Thursday Illinois Five Star Edition

MEXICANS IN AREA SUPPORT AMNESTY PROPOSAL;
 CRITICS SAY PLAN, UNDER CONSIDERATION BY BUSH, IS UNFAIR TO OTHER IMMIGRANTS

BYLINE: Phillip O'Connor Of The Post-Dispatch

SECTION: METRO; Pg. B1

LENGTH: 881 words


Maria Conchita Colson spent five years hiding her identity in the United States
as an undocumented immigrant.

The 43-year-old woman, who now lives in St. Louis, described herself in those
years as scared, insecure and afraid that any misstep could lead to her forced
return to a life of poverty raising chickens in Mexico.

Last year, she married Michael Colson, a naturalized citizen. Now she has a work
permit, is applying for citizenship and no longer faces the threat of
deportation.

However, thousands of other illegal Mexican immigrants believed to be in the St.
Louis area still do.

As word spread this week that President George W. Bush is considering a plan
that would grant amnesty to an estimated 3 million Mexicans living illegally in
the United States, the idea has garnered support from many Mexicans living here,
including Maria Colson. Colson crossed the U.S. border in 1995 at a Mexican town
called Agua Prieta. A previous attempt to cross the border had failed.

"If you work hard and keep your nose clean, you ought to be able to live without
that fear of deportation hanging over your head," said Maria, who now works part
time at a restaurant.

Today, she is one of nearly 40,000 Hispanics who live in the 12-county
metropolitan area, according to the 2000 census. Of those, more than half
identified themselves as Mexican.

Estimates on the number of undocumented Mexicans in the St. Louis area vary from
a few thousand to more than 20,000.

"They come to work and have their children, advance their education, and that's
what America is about, no?" said Adella Peugnet, a Human Development Corporation
social worker who has spent more than two decades working with the area's
burgeoning Hispanic community and favors an amnesty program. "They benefit the
country."

The amnesty idea drew the immediate endorsement of Mexican President Vicente
Fox.

But others say that an amnesty program only for Mexicans would be unfair to the
millions of other undocumented immigrants from other countries now living in the
United States.

"I would want to be able to see a program that dealt equitably with all the
people in the United States illegally and not just the Mexicans," said Anna
Crosslin, head of the International Institute, a St. Louis refugee relocation
agency.

Granting amnesty to illegal residents also penalizes Mexicans who obey current
policy and could encourage even more illegal entries, she said.

"Those individuals overseas who apply for legal admission to the United States
and have remained in their home country for a decade or two waiting for a valid
visa end up with the short end of the stick because they didn't get in a plane
or car to cross America's borders to get here illegally," Crosslin said.

Others say an amnesty program might be the only option for a country unable to
stem the flood of undocumented workers from Mexico. Current policies have led to
a "massive militarization" of the 1,984-mile border and 300 deaths last year
among those seeking to enter the country illegally, said Angie O'Gorman, a Legal
Aid lawyer and director of the Immigration Law Project, which provides free
legal services in immigration matters.

"There has to be another approach," O'Gorman said. "You can't have something
like NAFTA that allows the free flow of goods and services and expect the people
who are not benefiting from NAFTA to stay where they are on the Mexican side."
NAFTA stands for North American Free Trade Agreement.

Still, O'Gorman expressed fear that an amnesty program might harm those it seeks
to help.

"My greatest concern is that it not be used to increase the number of
unprotected workers in industries or agribusiness that depend on migrant
workers," O'Gorman said, "I don't want to see people who would receive this
amnesty be required by the regulations of the program to have to work for
abusive employers who are basically getting slave labor."

Often undocumented workers fill the positions unwanted by others, including
migrant farm labor or other piece work. Social workers and Hispanic leaders say
many of the Mexicans in this area find work in agriculture, construction trades,
lawn care and cleaning businesses, restaurants and hotels.

"It is very important to recognize that there are some millions of persons who
are working, and in many cases, paying taxes here in the United States and any
benefit that can happen for them will be welcomed," said Noemi Hernandez, deputy
consul for the Mexican Consulate in St. Louis.

At Taqueria Azteca, a small restaurant on Cherokee Street, amnesty has been a
topic of conversation among some Mexican customers in recent days, owner Jose
Luis Garcia said.

"Everybody supports the idea," Garcia said. "I think it's very difficult for
these folks. They work, they pay their taxes and they never claim anything."

Fairmont City Mayor Alex Bregen said he supports any program that makes it
easier for Hispanics to put down roots in his community.

The number of Hispanics living in Fairmont City doubled during the decade and
now make up more than half of the city's 2,400 residents.

"It was a culture shock a decade ago," Bregen says. "But now we're more of a
community. Now we've got youth again. To me, that's our future. It's been like a
rebirth for us."

LOAD-DATE: July 19, 2001

LANGUAGE: English

NOTES: Reporter Phillip O'Connor:; E-mail: poconnor@post-dispatch.com; Phone:
314-340-8321

GRAPHIC: PHOTO; Color photo by H. RICK MACH/POST-DISPATCH - Maria Conchita
Colson of St. Louis talks on the phone as she prepares dinner Wednesday in her
home. Colson, who came to the U.S. illegally but is now married to a citizen and
has a work permit, favors an amnesty plan for Mexicans in the country illegally.

                  Copyright 2001 St. Louis Post-Dispatch, Inc.


                              21 of 275 DOCUMENTS

                       St. Louis Post-Dispatch (Missouri)

                 July 19, 2001 Thursday Five Star Lift Edition

MEXICANS HERE BACK AMNESTY PROPOSAL

BYLINE: Phillip O'Connor Of The Post-Dispatch

SECTION: METRO; Pg. B1

LENGTH: 829 words


But critics say the plan being considered by President George W. Bush to grant
amnesty to Mexicans illegally in the United States is unfair to other
immigrants.

Maria Conchita Colson spent five years hiding her identity in the United States
as an undocumented immigrant.

The 43-year-old woman, who now lives in St. Louis, described herself in those
years as scared, insecure and afraid that any misstep could lead to her forced
return to a life of poverty raising chickens in Mexico.

Last year, she married Michael Colson, a naturalized citizen. Now she has a work
permit, is applying for citizenship and no longer faces the threat of
deportation.

However, thousands of other illegal Mexican immigrants believed to be in the St.
Louis area still do.

As word spread this week that President George W. Bush is considering a plan
that would grant amnesty to an estimated 3 million Mexicans living illegally in
the United States, the idea has garnered support from many Mexicans living here,
including Maria Colson. Colson crossed the U.S. border in 1995 at a Mexican town
called Agua Prieta. A previous attempt to cross the border had failed.

"If you work hard and keep your nose clean, you ought to be able to live without
that fear of deportation hanging over your head," said Maria, who now works part
time at a restaurant.

Today, she is one of nearly 40,000 Hispanics who live in the 12-county
metropolitan area, according to the 2000 census. Of those, more than half
identified themselves as Mexican.

Estimates on the number of undocumented Mexicans in the St. Louis area vary from
a few thousand to more than 20,000.

"They come to work and have their children, advance their education, and that's
what America is about, no?" said Adella Peugnet, a Human Development Corporation
social worker who has spent more than two decades working with the area's
burgeoning Hispanic community and favors an amnesty program. "They benefit the
country."

The amnesty idea drew the immediate endorsement of Mexican President Vicente
Fox.

But others say that an amnesty program only for Mexicans would be unfair to the
millions of other undocumented immigrants from other countries now living in the
United States.

"I would want to be able to see a program that dealt equitably with all the
people in the United States illegally and not just the Mexicans," said Anna
Crosslin, head of the International Institute, a St. Louis refugee relocation
agency.

Granting amnesty to illegal residents also penalizes Mexicans who obey current
policy and could encourage even more illegal entries, she said.

"Those individuals overseas who apply for legal admission to the United States
and have remained in their home country for a decade or two waiting for a valid
visa end up with the short end of the stick because they didn't get in a plane
or car to cross America's borders to get here illegally," Crosslin said.

Others say an amnesty program might be the only option for a country unable to
stem the flood of undocumented workers from Mexico. Current policies have led to
a "massive militarization" of the 1,984-mile border and 300 deaths last year
among those seeking to enter the country illegally, said Angie O'Gorman, a Legal
Aid lawyer and director of the Immigration Law Project in St. Louis, which
provides free legal services in immigration matters.

"There has to be another approach," O'Gorman said.

Still, O'Gorman expressed fear that an amnesty program might harm those it seeks
to help.

"My greatest concern is that it not be used to increase the number of
unprotected workers in industries or agribusiness that depend on migrant
workers," O'Gorman said, "I don't want to see people who would receive this
amnesty be required by the regulations of the program to have to work for
abusive employers who are basically getting slave labor."

Often undocumented workers fill the positions unwanted by others, including
migrant farm labor or other piece work. "It is very important to recognize that
there are some millions of persons who are working, and in many cases, paying
taxes here in the United States and any benefit that can happen for them will be
welcomed," said Noemi Hernandez, deputy consul for the Mexican Consulate in St.
Louis.

At Taqueria Azteca, a small restaurant on Cherokee Street, amnesty has been a
topic of conversation among some Mexican customers in recent days, owner Jose
Luis Garcia said.

"Everybody supports the idea," Garcia said. "I think it's very difficult for
these folks. They work, they pay their taxes and they never claim anything."

Fairmont City Mayor Alex Bregen said he supports any program that makes it
easier for Hispanics to put down roots in his community.

Hispanics now make up more than half of the city's 2,400 residents.

"It was a culture shock a decade ago," Bregen says. "But now we're more of a
community. Now we've got youth again. To me, that's our future. It's been like a
rebirth for us."

LOAD-DATE: July 19, 2001

LANGUAGE: English

NOTES: Reporter Phillip O'Connor:; E-mail: poconnor@post-dispatch.com; Phone:
314-340-8321

GRAPHIC: PHOTO; Color photo by H. RICK MACH / POST-DISPATCH - Maria Conchita
Colson of St. Louis talks on the phone as she prepares dinner Wednesday in her
home. Colson, who came to the U.S. illegally but is now married to a citizen and
has a work permit, favors an amnesty plan for Mexicans in the country illegally.

                  Copyright 2001 St. Louis Post-Dispatch, Inc.


                              22 of 275 DOCUMENTS

                       St. Louis Post-Dispatch (Missouri)

                 July 26, 2001 Thursday Five Star Lift Edition

LAWS SHOULD REFLECT NEED FOR ESSENTIAL WORKERS

BYLINE: Lilian Castellani de Fernandez

SECTION: EDITORIAL; Commentary Column; Pg. B7

LENGTH: 742 words


IMMIGRATION

Administration sources have confirmed that President George W. Bush is reviewing
some sort of legalization (or regularization, as Bush's press secretary has
called it) for undocumented Mexicans living and working in the United States.

This is not only an excellent idea, but a timely response to the dramatic worker
shortages the United States is experiencing, which are projected to last into
the next decade. While details about U.S.-Mexican discussions are unavailable,
we know the two governments are reviewing several options, one of which is the
regularization proposal and another is a new temporary worker program. We also
know that these proposals take into account the U.S. economy's need for
essential workers who largely are in the service sector.

Essential workers (semi-skilled and unskilled) are in great demand and will be
in greater demand in the future. In the year 2000 alone, the service sector
created 1 million new jobs. By the year 2008, total civilian employment is
projected to be 160.7 million, but the total civilian labor force is expected to
be only 154.7 million. From 1998 to 2008, eight of the top 10 occupations with
the largest job growth in absolute numbers fit into the essential definition:
retail sales, truck drivers, office clerks, nurses, computer support
specialists, personal and home health care, and teacher's assistants.

The economic needs of our country and our current immigration system are out of
sync, leaving American employers in crisis. There are very few legal mechanisms
for people with less than a bachelor's degree to enter the United States on a
temporary or permanent basis. While we need to pass laws that reform our
immigration system to reflect our realities, which include worker shortages, our
laws also must be reformed in other areas.

The laws put employers between a rock and a hard place. On one hand, a 1990 law
makes employers responsible for controlling documentation to eliminate,
hopefully, hiring illegal aliens. The same law includes anti-discrimination
provisions that require employers to stay within a very unclear line of
diligence in the kind of documents they can request. Responsible employers are
left with the impossible situation of asking enough, but not too much, and even
when making every effort to comply, a raid from the Immigration and
Naturalization Service can deplete what they thought was a reliable work force.
An underground industry of fraudulent documents has emerged, exploiting people
who come to the United States attracted by the availability of essential worker
jobs.

There is no doubt that we are facing a shortage of essential workers and that
the law must be changed to reflect our economic needs. The regularization of
people who work hard and pay taxes will help American employers and help
families that include U.S. citizens, legal permanent residents and the
undocumented. But we have other unfinished business and need to regularize the
status of others in this country.

Faced with this nation's realities, it is no wonder that unions and influential
political leaders from both parties, who in the past advocated restrictive
immigration policies, are now looking positively at the reports coming from the
U.S.-Mexico talks.

These discussions reflect the long history of interaction between the two
countries, an interaction that has been sometimes peaceful and cooperative,
sometimes difficult. The Mexican culture permeates many areas of the United
States; the Hispanic traditions in Arizona, California and Texas range from art
to cooking. We share what Mexican author Carlos Fuentes calls "La Frontera de
Cristal."

It is positive that, as Mexico incorporates itself among the democracies of the
world, the governments of the two countries work together to achieve agreements
that will benefit both equally. But we must not forget that we have unfinished
business and, as we exist in a world of integrated markets, need to extend our
immigration reforms to people from other parts of the world.

The United States should reform its immigration laws to achieve an orderly
movement of people through its borders. The new laws must respond to the fast
changing world reality of interdependence. We cannot build walls around our
country to preserve what it was in the past. To survive and thrive, we must look
at what is ahead and create the legislative conditions to move into that bright
and positive future.

LOAD-DATE: July 26, 2001

LANGUAGE: English

NOTES: Lilian Castellani de Fernandez is an attorney with the St. Louis firm of
Armstrong, Teasdale.

                  Copyright 2001 St. Louis Post-Dispatch, Inc.


                              23 of 275 DOCUMENTS

                       St. Louis Post-Dispatch (Missouri)

                  July 29, 2001 Sunday Five Star Lift Edition

REFORM PARTY SEEKS BAN ON IMMIGRATION;
 BUCHANAN ADDRESSES CONVENTION

BYLINE: The Associated Press

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. A2

LENGTH: 240 words

DATELINE: NASHVILLE, TENN.


Reform Party delegates voted to become "more vocal" about their conservative
views on social issues and approved additions to the party's platform that
include a 10-year ban on immigration.

"We need the United States of America Americanized," Pat Buchanan, the party's
conservative 2000 presidential candidate, told delegates gathered for the
party's national convention on Saturday.

The platform additions include refusing citizenship to children born on U.S.
soil to illegal alien parents, using the Army and National Guard to step up
patrols at U.S. borders and refusing amnesty to illegal immigrants.

Delegates also voted to begin a campaign to "assimilate" new immigrants into
American culture by teaching them English and encouraging them to learn American
history.

"I definitely agree with the moratorium on immigration for 10 years," said
Richard Underwood, a delegate from Long Beach, Calif., who wore camouflage pants
and a button on his shirt with the word "FULL" written across a picture of the
United States.

But not all Reform Party members were happy. Kathy Siebel of Nashville - who
campaigned for party founder Ross Perot in 1992 and 1996 - says she felt cut off
from the party when Buchanan gained more of a presence.

"I'm not questioning the merits of their stance," she told The Tennessean
newspaper. "But bringing divisive issues to the mix alienates the people you're
trying to attract to your cause."

LOAD-DATE: July 29, 2001

LANGUAGE: English

                  Copyright 2001 St. Louis Post-Dispatch, Inc.


                              24 of 275 DOCUMENTS

                       St. Louis Post-Dispatch (Missouri)

                    August 5, 2001 Sunday Three Star Edition

IMMIGRANTS FEEL GROWING BACKLASH IN SOME PLACES;
 MUCH OF THE ANGER IS TARGETED AT HISPANICS

BYLINE: Deborah Kong The Associated Press

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. A4

LENGTH: 677 words


A group in North Carolina plans to protest the "overwhelming number of illegal
Hispanic workers invading the area." A California coalition urges people to
lobby against giving legal status to undocumented immigrants.

And on New York's Long Island, the topic at a conference this weekend is the
"illegal immigration disaster."

Sparked by changing demographics, examples of anti-immigration sentiment seem to
be cropping up with increasing frequency around the country.

Observers say much of the hard feeling is directed at Hispanics, whose numbers
grew 58 percent, to more than 35 million in the last decade, according to census
figures.

Anti-immigration advocates feel newcomers lower wages, increase unemployment,
pollution, traffic and crime, and strain hospitals, parks and energy resources.

They're also upset that President George W. Bush is weighing a proposal to grant
legal residency to some undocumented Mexicans in the United States.

"It's because it's getting more in your face," said Gordon Lee Baum, head of the
Council of Conservative Citizens, which says it has 25,000 members. "All of the
sudden they see it happening in their community. They wake up one morning like
the people at the Alamo, and say, 'Where did the Mexicans come from?'"

Lisa Navarrete, a spokeswoman for the National Council of La Raza, a Hispanic
advocacy group, said community organizations report violence against Hispanics
is growing, although La Raza does not formally track such crimes.

"By appealing to people's darker natures, you're going to provoke those people
who are more inclined to violence," Navarrete said.

Tension has already boiled over in some places.

In the middle-class community of Farmingville, on Long Island, a county official
vetoed a proposal last spring to build a hiring center for day laborers. The
workers, many of them undocumented Mexicans, congregate in Farmingville seeking
work in landscaping, painting and construction.

Last September, two Mexican day laborers were beaten, allegedly by two men
posing as contractors. One of the men, Christopher Slavin, is now on trial in
Suffolk County Criminal Court.

"The backlash came the minute they walked across the border," said Ray
Wysolmierski, a spokesman for Sachem Quality of Life Organization, the
Farmingville citizens group that is sponsoring this weekend's conference on
illegal immigration.

In June, a Minnesota man was sentenced to more than seven years in prison for
first-degree assault after hitting a Salvadoran immigrant in the head with a
piece of wood. Prosecutors said the man decided to attack after hearing the
immigrant speak Spanish.

And in Arizona, hundreds of ranchers are patrolling their lands along the
border, detaining immigrants and turning them over to the Border Patrol, said
Roger Barnett, who carries a pistol while cruising his 22,000-acre Douglas
ranch.

"They don't need to be on my place, and they don't need to be in this country,"
Barnett said. "Our government is doing nothing about it."

While such dramatic examples of anti-immigrant sentiment are sporadic, observers
say the feeling has manifested itself in other ways.

The Newton, N.C., rally later this month will protest an "alien invasion," as
well as the North American Free Trade Agreement and trade with China. The event
is being sponsored by the local chapter of the Council of Conservative Citizens.

Last August, the Ku Klux Klan held a rally in Siloam Springs, Ark., where
Hispanics make up the largest minority group. In response, the Hispanic Women's
Organization of Arkansas helped organize a cultural diversity fair, dubbing it
"pinatas for peace."

And in February 2000, former Klansman David Duke told Siler City, N.C.,
residents their town will be overrun by a wave of immigration from Mexico.

Messages like that are painful to immigrants, said Ilana Dubester, director of
Siler City's Hispanic Liaison.

"They are trying to adjust, working really hard, they have their families, they
go to church, and yet somehow are not made to feel welcome," she said.

LOAD-DATE: August 5, 2001

LANGUAGE: English

GRAPHIC: PHOTO; Photo by the ASSOCIATED PRESS - Donato Monter Acosta (right), a
Mexican day laborer, waits for employers with other undocumented Mexican
immigrants at a gas station in Dallas recently. Acosta says President George W.
Bush should "learn to value the people who are not legal, people like us who are
here."

                  Copyright 2001 St. Louis Post-Dispatch, Inc.


                              25 of 275 DOCUMENTS

                       St. Louis Post-Dispatch (Missouri)

               August 9, 2001 Thursday Illinois Five Star Edition

LAW & ORDER

SECTION: METRO; Law & Order Column; Pg. B2

LENGTH: 518 words


ST. LOUIS

2 brothers plead guilty of hauling illeal aliens

A fatal crash May 25 on Interstate 44 near Rolla, Mo., led to guilty pleas
Wednesday by two brothers from Mexico who admitted they transported illegal
immigrants crammed into a pickup.

U.S. District Judge Catherine D. Perry set Nov. 2 as the sentencing date for
Agustin Gomez-Rodriquez, 40, and Marco Antonio Gomez-Rodriquez, 27. The older
brother, of Mexico City, entered the United States illegally this year, the U.S.
attorney's office said. The younger brother, also a Mexican citizen, has lived
in Dallas since 1993.

Jesus Manuel Cortes-Alvarado, 25, of the Mexican state of Chiapas, died in the
accident. It happened when the pickup, driven by Agustin Gomez-Rodriguez,
crossed the highway median and collided with a tractor-trailer.

Cortes-Alvarado was among 15 illegal immigrants crowded into a Ford extended-cab
pickup with a camper shell. Several illegal immigrants riding in the pickup were
hurt. One was hospitalized for several weeks.

TROY, Ill.

Biker dies in West Virginia crash

Motorcyclist Robert Broussard, 53, of Troy, Ill., died Tuesday in a collision
with a tractor-trailer near Berkeley Springs, W.Va., while his wife watched from
the side of the highway, police said.

Troopers said it happened on U.S. Highway 522 in northern Morgan County as
Broussard and his wife, Evelyn, 49, were riding their motorcycles through
several states.

After stopping along the highway to rest and take photographs, officials said,
the Broussards prepared to leave. Robert Broussard pulled out first, tried to
make a U-turn and slammed into the truck. No one else was hurt. No citations
were issued.

BELLEVILLE

Ex-coach is charged in student rape

Jeffrey Marvel, a former football coach and special-education instructor at
Northwest High School in Jefferson County, was arrested in Belleville on
Wednesday on charges of statutory rape and three counts of statutory sodomy
involving a former Northwest student.

Marvel, 31, of Belleville, is accused of engaging in sex acts with a 15-year-old
female student between April 28, 2000, and March 3, 2001. He was charged Aug. 3.

Police arrested Marvel at his house in the 800 block of East Main Street after
attempts to negotiate his voluntary surrender to Jefferson County authorities
broke down. He was being held in the St. Clair County Jail pending extradition
to Jefferson County. Bail was set at $50,000.

Jefferson County Prosecutor Bob Wilkins said the incidents were alleged to have
happened at the high school in Cedar Hill and at Marvel's former home in High
Ridge. Wilkins said the allegations came to light in May after the student
tested positive for a sexually transmitted disease.

Wilkins said authorities also were investigating an incident involving the
student alleged to have occurred in Belleville.

Marvel resigned from the Northwest School District in January and had been
working as a special education instructor at Gateway Institute of Technology, a
magnet high school in St. Louis. City schools spokesman Chester Edmonds said he
would be fired.

LOAD-DATE: August 9, 2001

LANGUAGE: English

GRAPHIC: PHOTO; Photo headshot - (Jeffrey) Marvel

                  Copyright 2001 St. Louis Post-Dispatch, Inc.


                              26 of 275 DOCUMENTS

                       St. Louis Post-Dispatch (Missouri)

                 August 14, 2001 Tuesday Five Star Lift Edition

NUMBER OF IMMIGRANTS HERE ILLEGALLY IS GROWING ;
 U.S. CRACKS DOWN, BUT ADVOCATES SAY ALIENS BENEFIT LOCAL ECONOMY

BYLINE: Phillip O'Connor Of The Post-Dispatch

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. A1

LENGTH: 866 words


As the nation's immigrant population continues to swell, so does the number of
people who are here illegally.

The Immigration and Naturalization Service estimates that there are about 6
million illegal aliens living in the United States, a number which increases by
more than 200,000 per year. No official estimates exist on the number of illegal
aliens living in the 12-county St. Louis metropolitan area, but some familiar
with the issue place the number at more than 20,000. Mexicans make up the
largest percentage of that group.

As the number of illegal aliens rises, so does their importance in some parts of
the local economy.

"Someone said that if everyone here who was undocumented stopped working for a
day, the economy would halt," said Juan Escarfuller, director of the office of
Hispanic Ministry for the Catholic Archdiocese of St. Louis. "Maybe buses would
still run, but they'd be half empty because that's the primary mode of
transportation for these people."

Business at a dozen Hispanic-owned shops plummeted last month after immigration
agents arrested several illegal aliens along Cherokee Street in St. Louis. News
of the arrests spread through the area, and illegal aliens who feared arrest did
not want to venture out.

"These people are hard-working, they're coming here to do a job that most of us
don't want to do and they're very entrepreneurial in spirit," said Gilberto
Pinela, president of the Hispanic Chamber of Commerce. "The bottom line is
they're not coming over here to take anything away from anybody. They're coming
over here to contribute to the economic development of the region. If they're
discouraged from working, the economy will suffer."

In St. Louis, illegal aliens are finding work as domestics, or in construction,
landscaping, roofing, restaurants or other jobs that don't require extensive
language skills. In some cases, they may have entered the country legally but
stayed on after their work permits expired. Others are drawn by jobs or the
desire to reunite with relatives.

After the arrests, "business went down," said Josephine Otero, who opened La
Mexicana Western Wear four years ago. "There's been no business in almost a
month."

"My place is dead," said Miguel Arzate, owner of Guaymas, a seafood restaurant
he opened three years ago. "People are scared to come here."

Otero said her business will survive, but Pinela isn't sure others that serve
Hispanics will fare as well.

"I am concerned about the bottom line of our businesses," Pinela said.

From south St. Louis to Ballwin, St. Charles and Bridgeton, the Immigration and
Naturalization Service is finding and deporting Mexicans, Russians, Ukrainians,
Bosnians, Guatemalans, Hondurans, Indians and others at the rate of about a
dozen a week. The number is steadily increasing.

"We just have more and more people coming to the Midwest," said Chester Moyer,
who heads the local Immigration and Naturalization Service office.

Moyer said his agents typically respond to complaints or work in conjunction
with other law enforcement agencies in making arrests. He said immigration
investigators fanned out over several days along Cherokee Street after some
businesses complained about young men loitering on the sidewalks and harassing
customers.

Many new arrivals have no trouble finding work.

"There are many businesses that are hiring these people without proper
documentation and the word gets around," said Adella Peugnet, a Human
Development Corp. social worker who works with Hispanics.

Some employers take advantage of a worker's unlawful status.

"They may pay $7 or $7.50 an hour, but they know these people are not going to
file income tax returns so the employers are not paying their portion of the
taxes," Peugnet said.

Moving against companies that employ undocumented workers can be difficult for
government investigators, Moyer said.

"If we can show that they knowingly hired an illegal alien, we can initiate
action against them," Moyer said. "Most of the companies are astu te enough that
they insulate themselves from the hiring and documentation process and are
surprised to find out they're illegal even though they've been talking to them
in Spanish for the last two years. Knowing and proving are two different
things."

Some business leaders and many immigrants believe that an amnesty program may be
the only way to stem the flood of undocumented workers entering the country.

President George W. Bush is considering widespread immigration reform that could
include expanding the number of temporary workers brought into the country
legally and allowing undocumented workers already in the United States an
opportunity to earn permanent legal residency over time.

Congress also is interested in the issue, with competing measures in the House
and Senate. One is supported by growers seeking increased flexibility to hire
workers with minimal intrusion from the Department of Labor; the other,
supported by organized labor, would give farm workers the right to organize and
join a union and would expand protections for migrant and seasonal workers. Both
would allow undocumented workers to apply for permanent residency.

LOAD-DATE: August 14, 2001

LANGUAGE: English

NOTES: Reporter Phillip O'Connor E-mail: poconnor@post-dispatch.com Phone:
314-340-8321

GRAPHIC: PHOTO; Photo by J.B. FORBES / POST-DISPATCH - Josephine Otero looks up
to see who is coming into her shop on Cherokee Street on Thursday in St. Louis.
Josephine's business, Las Mexicanas Western Wear, has suffered since Immigration
and Naturalization Service officers began picking up illegal aliens a few weeks
ago.

                  Copyright 2001 St. Louis Post-Dispatch, Inc.


                              27 of 275 DOCUMENTS

                       St. Louis Post-Dispatch (Missouri)

                September 4, 2001 Tuesday Five Star Lift Edition

AUSTRALIA TAKES REFUGEES TO WARSHIP FOR VOYAGE TO PAPUA NEW GUINEA;
 FROM THERE, SOME ARE TO HEAD TO NAURU, OTHERS TO NEW ZEALAND

BYLINE: The Associated Press

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. A3

LENGTH: 566 words

DATELINE: CHRISTMAS ISLAND, AUSTRALIA


Australia stood by its pledge to keep hundreds of asylum-seekers off its soil
Monday, ferrying them instead to a warship to be taken to Papua New Guinea, then
Nauru and New Zealand.

Two barges and two inflatable speedboats took the refugees to the wa rship
Manoora from the Norwegian cargo ship Tampa. It had rescued the refugees last
week from a sinking Indonesian ferry.

Norway has argued with Australia for a week over who should take the immigrants,
and it accused Australia of setting a shameful precedent by shunting the
refugees off on other countries.

The Australians "have ducked the demands of humanitarian law, and that is very
unfortunate and can have serious consequences if this bad example is followed by
other countries so people on the run have nowhere to go," Norwegian Foreign
Minister Thorbjoern Jagland said in an interview with Norwegian state radio,
NRK.

Australian Prime Minister John Howard said his country is being swamped by
illegal immigrants and needed to take a stand.

On Monday, Australian authorities arrested four Indonesian crew members of the
ferry. The four were among those saved by the Tampa. Police planned to file
immigrant smuggling charges against the four.

The more than 430 refugees - most of them Afghans, but a few Sri Lankans and
Pakistanis as well - were divided into groups before walking down the Tampa's
gangway and being taken to the warship off the coast of Australia's remote
Christmas Island.

With the 2 1/2-hour operation completed at sunset, the Tampa departed for
Singapore. The Manoora was scheduled to leave later for Papua New Guinea's
capital, Port Moresby, five days away.

From there, they will be flown to either the central Pacific island state of
Nauru or New Zealand, where their cases will be processed.

"The asylum-seekers were calm," said Richard Danziger of the International
Organization for Migration, who observed the transfer. "It was obviously planned
very carefully by the Australian defense force, and it went well."

The transfer was given the go-ahead after a federal court lifted an injunction
barring the transfer of the refugees. But the refugees cannot be moved from the
ship to Papua New Guinea soil until the conclusion of the court hearing,
expected Wednesday or Thursday.

If the court finds that Australia must accept the refugees and process their
requests for refugee status, the Manoora could be ordered back to Australia.

The weeklong standoff prompted unprecedented criticism of Australia from other
countries and the chief of the United Nations.

When the Tampa's captain defied Australia and entered Australian territorial
waters seeking humanitarian aid for the refugees, 50 Australian commandos were
ordered to storm the ship. Critics said Australian government leaders were
pandering to voters who resent the rising cost of illegal immigration.

About 150 refugees are to go to New Zealand for processing. The rest are to go
to Nauru, where representatives of the U.N. High Commissioner for Refugees will
assess asylum applications.

Australia has said it will take some of those who are granted refugee status and
will bear the cost for their trip to Nauru.

An 8.5-square-mile island with a population of less than 12,000, Nauru is the
major trading partner of Australia's. Nauru's major industry is phosphate
mining. Papua New Guinea is Australia's largest aid recipient.

LOAD-DATE: September 4, 2001

LANGUAGE: English

GRAPHIC: PHOTO; Photo by THE ASSOCIATED PRESS - Australian Navy personnel
prepare to launch a barge that would be used to transfer refugees Monday from
the Norwegian ship Tampa to the Australian warship Manoora. Australia has stuck
to its pledge to keep the asylum-seekers off its soil.

                  Copyright 2001 St. Louis Post-Dispatch, Inc.


                              28 of 275 DOCUMENTS

                       St. Louis Post-Dispatch (Missouri)

               September 16, 2001 Sunday Early Five Star Edition

FBI IS HOLDING 25 FOR QUESTIONING; 1ST ARREST IS MADE;
 AIRLINE FURLOUGHS 12,000

BYLINE: Harry Levins Post-Dispatch Senior Writer This Story Was Compiled From
Information Provided By The Associated Press, Reuters And The Knight-Ridder News
Service.

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. A1

LENGTH: 1250 words


The FBI has rounded up a fourth of the 100 or so people thought to have
information that agents need in their investigation of last week's terrorist
attacks.

Twenty-five people are in custody because of what could be immigration
violations, authorities said Saturday. Some are talking, the Justice Department
said.

Authorities want to pin down facts about the hijackers who steered two airliners
into the World Trade Center in New York City on Tuesday and rammed the Pentagon
with a third. A fourth hijacked airliner crashed in a field in Pennsylvania.

Among other developments Saturday:

* Funerals and memorial services for victims began, the first of perhaps 5,000
to come.

* Even as commercial flights resumed, more airlines announced cuts in service.

Twenty-five people facing questioning by the FBI are in custody for immigration
violations, law enforcement officials said Saturday.

In addition to the 25, the FBI made its first arrest in the case - an
unidentified person in New York described as a Middle Eastern man who had a fake
pilot's license. The FBI is seeking another unidentified person on a similar
"material witness" warrant.

"We are at the point where there will be additional, and with more frequency,
material witness warrants," Justice Department spokeswoman Mindy Tucker said.

Some of the 25 people held by immigration authorities are cooperating with
investigators, Tucker said. But she was unable to say how many.

None has yet been charged with immigration violations. Generally, immigration
charges must be brought within 72 hours or a "reasonable amount of time" after a
person has been taken into custody, Justice De partment officials said.

Other officials said most of the 25 were on the list of more than 100 people who
Attorney General John Ashcroft has said the FBI wants to talk to.

The 25 include two men who were taken off a train in Texas and questioned for
two days by the FBI in connection with the attacks and then moved to New York
for further questioning, they said.

Among them are two men whose flight from Newark to San Antonio was cut short in
St. Louis Tuesday. They boarded a train in St. Louis and were detained in Fort
Worth, Texas.

Police in Texas have said the two were carrying several thousand dollars in
cash, hair dye and box cutters like those used by some of the hijackers.

The men said they were from India. They gave their names as Ayub Ali Khan, 51,
and Mohammed Jaweed Azmath, 47, police said.

In describing the only arrest on a material witness warrant, officials said the
man initially had been stopped by Port Authority police at Kennedy International
Airport in New York and was questioned by the FBI. He was arrested late Friday.

A material witness warrant like the one issued against the man lets authorities
hold someone considered crucial to the investigation without charging him.

The FBI withheld the man's identity. But one law enforcement source said the man
had been detained Thursday at Kennedy International Airport after flashing a
pilot's license issued to his brother.

The Justice Department's Tucker said that numerous vehicles and computers had
been seized at various sites.

Tucker also reported several fresh hate-crime incidents against Arab-Americans
but did not give details.

Investigators had hoped for clues from the cockpit voice recorder found in the
remains of the airliner that crashed in Pennsylvania.

But technicians at the National Transportation Safety Board ran into problems
and have sent the device to its manufacturer, investigators said Saturday.

A voice recorder retrieved early Friday from the Pentagon rubble yielded no
information; it had been roasted in the fire that followed the crash. Nobody has
found recorders from the New York hijackings.

German authorities said Saturday that the German girlfriend of one suspect had
led them to a suitcase containing "airplane-related documents" in Bochum, a
western industrial city.

The lead moved Germany's investigation beyond Hamburg, where three of the 19
hijackers lived and studied.

The aviation impact

Anticipating a slump in air travel, Continental Airlines furloughed 12,000
employees Saturday and cut its flight schedule by 20 percent.

Northwest and American also said they were cutting back schedules by 20 percent
but had no figures for furloughs. TWA and American had earlier announced similar
cuts.

Boston Logan's International Airport finally reopened Saturday, but with only a
small fraction of its normal daily traffic of 70,000 passengers. The 200 or so
who boarded morning flights were all but outnumbered by U.S. marshals, Border
Patrol officers and police officers in black SWAT uniforms.

With that reopening, Washington's Reagan National Airport remained the only
major U.S. airport still shut down. Authorities cited its proximity to the
Pentagon and other federal buildings.

International air carriers resumed flights to the United States. But security
checks led to long lines and long delays. One Swedish flight was canceled
because the delay ran so long that the crew's work day expired.

Lt. Gen. Russell Davis of the Air National Guard said fighter planes continued
to patrol over Washington, New York and a few other unspecified cities.

Recovery and requiems

Workers toiled Saturday in the muck of what was the World Trade Center in New
York. But they found only a few of the thousands of bodies buried in 1.25
million tons of debris. Rain and chill made the work more miserable.

In Washington, the Defense Department awarded a first-step contract worth $145
million Saturday to rebuild the Pentagon. Cleanup and search crews continued
their task.

At a Roman Catholic church across from a New York firehouse, bagpipers played
after a funeral for the Rev. Mychal Judge, chaplain of the city's Fire
Department.

Falling debris killed Judge Tuesday as he was administering last rites to a
firefighter mortally injured in the attack on the World Trade Center.

Among the mourners Saturday were U.S. Sen. Hillary Clinton, D-N.Y., former
President Bill Clinton and their daughter, Chelsea.

In Arlington, Va., Supreme Court Justice Clarence Thomas delivered a eulogy for
Barbara Olson, a lawyer, a conservative TV commentator and the wife of U.S.
Solicitor General Theodore Olson. She was aboard the jetliner that struck the
Pentagon.

Thomas said, "Barbara strode boldly through life, full of cheer and verve,
shying from no challenge or obstacle."

In California, memorial services honored two men believed to have helped thwart
hijackers aboard the plane that crashed in Pennsylvania.

In Pleasanton, Calif., nearly 2,000 mourners remembered business executive
Thomas Burnett Jr., 38. In San Francisco, mourners gathered for Mark Bingham,
31, who owned a public relations firm and played on a gay men's rugby team.

Some successes

The New York Stock Exchange, Nasdaq and the American Stock Exchange wrapped up a
test of computer and communications systems Saturday.

"At 9:30 Monday morning, trading will resume," said the NYSE's Richard A.
Grasso. Sounding the opening bell will be people from the agencies doing rescue
work at the World Trade Center.

And at a shipyard in Pascagoula, Miss., the U.S. Navy destroyer Cole - holed by
a terrorist attack last October - has been relaunched after repairs.

The ship slipped back into the water late Friday. A Navy spokesman said, "It was
like the ship was saying, 'You may have wounded me, but I'm the determined
warrior.'"

LOAD-DATE: September 22, 2001

LANGUAGE: English

NOTES: LATEST DEVELOPMENTS; Reporter Harry Levins:; E-mail:
hlevins@post-dispatch.com; Phone: 314-340-8144

GRAPHIC: PHOTO; (1) Photo by DAVID CARSON/POST-DISPATCH - Jon Riess (left) and
Jim O'Rourke post a missing person flier in Manhattan on Saturday seeking word
on a man who was in the World Trade Center Tuesday. The two spent most of the
day helping a friend put up the handbills.; (2) Photo by SHAWN BALDWIN/THE
ASSOCIATED PRESS - Workers digging through the rubble at the World Trade Center
in New York Saturday reported finding only a few of the thousands of bodies
buried in the 1.25 million tons of debris.

TYPE: PROFILE; TERRORIST ATTACK ON THE U.S.; WORLD TRADE CENTER; PENTAGON;
INVESTIGATION

                  Copyright 2001 St. Louis Post-Dispatch, Inc.


                              29 of 275 DOCUMENTS

                       St. Louis Post-Dispatch (Missouri)

                September 16, 2001 Sunday Five Star Lift Edition

FBI IS HOLDING 25 FOR QUESTIONING, SEEKS 2ND ARREST;
 ASHCROFT INDICATES PROGRESS

BYLINE: Karen Gullo The Associated Press

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. A1

LENGTH: 1431 words

DATELINE: WASHINGTON


With one man in custody in New York, authorities investigating this week's
horrific terrorist attacks issued a second arrest warrant for a material witness
and detained 25 people for possible immigration violations.

"We are beginning to understand the ways in which this terrible crime was
committed," Attorney General John Ashcroft said Saturday.

Investigators expected to issue additional warrants, as the investigation into
Tuesday's attacks shifts into higher gear.

"We are at a point where there will be additional and more frequent warrants,"
said Justice Department spokeswoman Mindy Tucker.

The Justice Department said Saturday that a second arrest warrant for a material
witness in the hijackings investigation was issued by federal prosecutors in New
York. The person had not yet been arrested at the time the warrant was
announced.

Authorities made their first arrest in the case on Friday. A man described as a
material witness in the attacks was taken into custody in New York. Officials
speaking on condition of anonymity said the man arrested was the same person
detained Thursday at John F. Kennedy International Airport with a fake pilot's
license.

None of the 25 held on immigration violations has been formally charged, either
on immigration counts or with crimes related to the four hijackings, Tucker
said. Some but not all of the detainees who have been interviewed are
cooperating with the FBI. All are in the Immigration and Naturalization
Service's custody.

Tucker declined to say whether any of the 25 are suspected of being accomplices
to the terrorist attacks on the World Trade Center and the Pentagon or whether
they have significant information about the plot. "It's not clear in all cases
how important their information is," said Tucker.

Among the 25 are two men detained at an Amtrak station in Fort Worth, Texas.
They were interviewed by FBI agents, taken into custody and flown to New York.

The two boarded a flight Tuesday morning in Newark, N.J., as the four hijackings
were under way, said a law enforcement source, speaking on condition of
anonymity. The plane was grounded in St. Louis as the FAA halted all air
traffic; the men then boarded an Amtrak train bound for Texas.

They were taken off during a routine drug search Wednesday night. Although no
drugs were found, the men had box-cutting knives, authorities said, and also
carried about $5,000 in cash, according to a federal official who spoke on
condition of anonymity.

The hijackers had used knives and box cutters to take control of the planes.

The official would not comment on whether the two from Texas were cooperating
with authorities. The FBI searched a New Jersey apartment believed to have been
the home of one or both of the men.

New Jersey is one of several states described as areas where there is "intense
activity" in the investigation, said an official speaking privately. The other
states are Texas, Florida, New York and Massachusetts, especially the Boston
area.

Some of the 25 were detained because they were discovered to have immigration
problems when FBI agents questioned them about the attacks. Others were arrested
as part of unrelated investigations and came to the attention of authorities
investigating the hijackings.

The immigration problems could range from overstayed or expired visas to being
employed without a work visa. The detainees can be held for an indefinite amount
of time, and there is no deadline for charging or releasing them.

Prosecutors sometimes hold foreign nationals on immigration violations as a way
to buy time to investigate other charges.

Officials declined to say where the 25 were arrested or where they are being
detained.

Among others who have been questioned or sought:

* Zacarias Moussaoui, who trained briefly at a Minnesota flight school and was
arrested Aug. 17 on an immigration violation. ABC News reported that Moussaoui
aroused suspicions of a flight instructor because he wanted flight simulator
instructions only on how to fly a 747 in horizontal mode - not learn takeoffs
and landings. He was moved Friday from a Minnesota county jail to an undisclosed
location.

* Amer Kamfar, a flight engineer who listed a Saudi Airlines post office box as
his address in FAA records, is being sought by the FBI. Kamfar was listed at
various times as living at the same address in Vero Beach, Fla., as Abdul
Alomari, one of the suspected hijackers aboard American Airlines Flight 11,
which struck the World Trade Center's north tower.

* Agents have also interviewed three men in New Jersey carrying a large amount
of cash and a one-way plane ticket to Syria, police said. The three - Ahmad
Kilfat, 45, Mohammad Mahmoud Al Raqqad, 37, and Nicholas Makrakis, 27 - were in
a red car that fit a description put out by federal authorities of a car that
may have a connection to the terrorist attacks, according to a police official
who requested anonymity.

The FBI is looking for more than 100 people who may have information about the
attacks - two planes flown into the twin towers of New York's World Trade
Center, one into the Pentagon and a fourth into the Pennsylvania countryside.

A few of those people have been located and interviewed, officials said.

"We are making the kinds of contacts and developing the information that allows
us to describe this as proceeding with reasonable success," said Ashcroft, who
met with President George W. Bush and administration officials at Camp David.

Investigators have sent the flight data recorder and voice recorder from the
plane that crashed in Pennsylvania to the manufacturer for analysis. The cockpit
voice recorder of the jet that hit the Pentagon was badly damaged and may not
provide much information, officials said.

In Germany, police found "airplane-related documents" in a suitcase they believe
belonged to one of the hijackers, federal investigators said Saturday.

In New York, the passport of a suspected hijacker was discovered near the ruins
of the World Trade Center, authorities said Saturday.

FBI Assistant Director Barry Mawn did not disclose the name on the passport or
other details, but the discovery prompted an intensive search Saturday for
evidence blocks from the towers that were brought down by two hijacked jets.

Apparent remains from jetliners

Other details of rescuers' grisly finds since Tuesday also began to emerge.
Among them was a pair of hands, bound together, found on a rooftop, authorities
said.

The New York Times reported Saturday that one rescuer found the body of a flight
attendant, whose hands were also bound. Another worker told the paper he had
found the remains of people strapped to what seemed to be airplane seats.

Meanwhile, in Paris there were reports that coordinated U.S., European and
Middle Eastern investigations may have foiled another terrorist suicide plot,
this one to blow up the American embassy with a car bomb.

A group of Islamic militants were arrested last week in Belgium and the
Netherlands, intelligence and law enforcement sources said Saturday.

Media reports said as many as eight were taken into custody. Among them was a
30-year-old Tunisian named Nizar Trabalsi, who had recently trained at bin
Laden's Afghanistan terrorist camps. Trabalsi was believed to be the intended
suicide bomber.

According to two law enforcement sources, the attack was intended for sometime
next year.

One European intelligence source said the conspiracy was uncovered after the
arrest about a month ago of a French-Algerian in the United Arab Emirates,
following a tip from U.S. authorities.

The French-Algerian, named Jamal Beghal, revealed that he had been assigned to
establish a terrorist network in France to attack U.S. targets. The source said
Beghal told interrogators that "someone had to make a suicide action in France
against American interests."

An intelligence source said that both Trabalsi and Beghal previously had
contacts with Abu Jaffar, a top recruitment and training lieutenant of Bin Laden
in Afghanistan.

Last Monday, a day before the assaults on the World Trade Center in New York and
the Pentagon in Arlington County, Va., French anti-terror investigator
Jean-Louis Bruguiere opened a formal inquiry into the possible plot against U.S.
interests in France.

A U.S. embassy spokesman said Saturday that American officials had nothing to
add regarding the arrests or the reported plot against the embassy.

"The embassy is aware of the reports of this type," said spokesman Richard
Lankford. "We don't comment on the embassy's security postures."

LOAD-DATE: September 22, 2001

LANGUAGE: English

NOTES: AMERICA UNDER ATTACK

GRAPHIC: PHOTO; (2) PHoto not Available tms; (1) PHOTO by David Carson /
Post-Dispatch - Jon Riess (left) and Jim O'Rourke post a missing person flier in
Manhattan on Saturday, helping a friend look for information about his father,
who was in the World Trade Center Tuesday. "I just want to support my friend in
any way I can," Riess said.; (2) Photo by KEITH MEYERS/THE NEW YORK TIMES - The
rubble of the World Trade Center continues to smolder Saturday.; (3) Photo by
SGT. CEDRIC H. RUDISILL/DEPARTMENT OF DEFENSE - The damaged west face of the
Pentagon is seen in this official photograph made on Friday.

TYPE: PROFILE; TERRORIST ATTACK ON THE U.S.; WORLD TRADE CENTER; PENTAGON;
INVESTIGATION

                  Copyright 2001 St. Louis Post-Dispatch, Inc.


                              30 of 275 DOCUMENTS

                       St. Louis Post-Dispatch (Missouri)

            October 16, 2001 Tuesday Illinois Five Star Lift Edition

TWO MEN ARE HELD ON FEDERAL IMMIGRATION, TAX CHARGES;
 SUSPECTS ARE OWNERS OF 3 ST. LOUIS-AREA RESTAURANTS

BYLINE: Michael Shaw Of The Post-Dispatch

SECTION: METRO; Pg. B1

LENGTH: 319 words


The owners of three Cancun Mexican Restaurants in the St. Louis area have been
arrested on charges of income tax evasion and hiring illegal immigrants to work
at the restaurants during the mid-1990s.

Pedro Munoz, 43, and Erasto Becerril, 38, were arrested Oct. 9 on a four-count
federal indictment in East St. Louis. Both are Mexican citizens who are here
under legal permanent-alien-resident status.

They are accused of skimming large sums of cash from restaurant proceeds and
then concealing it from the Internal Revenue Service between 1995 and 1998. The
charges allege they hired illegal aliens between 1994 and 1998. They own Cancun
franchises in Swansea, Collinsville and St. Ann.

They are being held in the St. Clair County Jail.

If convicted on the tax evasion counts, each defendant could receive a maximum
of eight years in prison. Conviction on the hiring charge would bring up to six
months in prison.

Workers at the restaurants are worried about their jobs, but so far, the
restaurants have remained open.

"We don't know what is going to happen," said Alejandro Martinez, a manager at
the Collinsville restaurant, and a Cancun employee for the past seven years.
"Everyone here is worried."

He said the wife of one of the owners is now running the restaurants.

After a series of raids four years ago, Martinez said, the restaurant always
checked that all employees were legally admitted to the United States. The
previous raids turned up 36 illegal aliens, who were charged and deported.

The current charges identify 48 employees who worked at the restaurants
illegally, including relatives of Becerril.

Munoz filed a false corporate tax return in 1998 and Becerril aided him,
according to the charges.

The Cancun chain began in Chattanooga, Tenn., in 1988.

The investigation was headed by agents of the Internal Revenue Service and the
Immigration and Naturalization Service.

LOAD-DATE: October 16, 2001

LANGUAGE: English

NOTES: Reporter Mike Shaw: E-mail: mshaw@post-dispatch.com Phone: 618-235-3988

                  Copyright 2001 St. Louis Post-Dispatch, Inc.


                              31 of 275 DOCUMENTS

                       St. Louis Post-Dispatch (Missouri)

                 October 19, 2001 Friday Five Star Lift Edition

AT A GLANCE

BYLINE: From News Services

SECTION: NEWS; At A Glance Column; Pg. A16

LENGTH: 630 words


LOS ANGELES

Man in his 70s gets an artificial heart

A man in his 70s became the world's fourth recipient of a self-contained
artificial heart, UCLA Medical Center announced Thursday.

The patient was resting comfortably after Wednesday's 11-hour procedure to
implant the AbioCor replacement heart, according to a statement. He was
described as being in his 70s, but his name was withheld.

"The operation went exceptionally well and the artificial heart is functioning
beautifully," said Dr. Hillel Laks, chief of cardiothoracic surgery at the UCLA
School of Medicine. He performed the surgery with surgeon Daniel Marelli and
cardiologist Jaime Morguchi.

The first AbioCor heart was implanted July 2 into Bob Tools, then 58, at Jewish
Hospital in Louisville, Ky. The second operation, also at Jewish Hospital, was
Sept. 13, and the recipient was Tom Christerson, 70. The third operation was
Sept. 26 at St. Luke's Episcopal Hospital in Houston. The name of that patient
has been withheld.

PHOENIX

Man admits he left immigrants in desert

A man pleaded guilty Thursday to charges he smuggled a group of illegal
immigrants across the Mexican border and left 14 of them to die in the scorching
Arizona desert.

Jesus Lopez-Ramos, 20, of Mexico, could get up to 10 years in prison on each of
25 counts when he is sentenced Jan. 15. Prosecutors could have sought the death
penalty but decided against it.

According to federal investigators, Lopez-Ramos recruited Mexicans and then
guided them across the border on May 19 for a fee of $1,400 each. Four days
later, the group was lost and had no food or water.

Lopez-Ramos and two other guides collected $90 from the group with the promise
to return with water, investigators said. But the three guides instead abandoned
the immigrants in the desert in temperatures above 115 degrees, where 14 of the
25 died.

GARDNER, Mass.

Acting governor will seek the office next year

Ending months of speculation, acting Gov. Jane Swift said Thursday that she will
run for governor next year.

Swift - the state's first woman governor and the first governor in the n ation
to give birth while in office - made the announcement after a send-off ceremony
for 100 National Guard troops headed to Fort Dix, N.J.

Swift, 36, is the only Republican to announce a bid so far. She had been
weighing public life with the responsibilities of being the mother of three
young children. She took over the job after Gov. Paul Cellucci left to become
U.S. ambassador to Canada.

MACEDONIA

Leaders in ethnic rift will revive peace plan

Macedonian and ethnic Albanian leaders agreed to revive a Western-sponsored
peace plan Thursday after warnings by NATO to honor commitments or risk renewed
ethnic warfare.

Under the August accord, ethnic Albanian rebels ended six months of fighting and
handed in more than 4,000 weapons to NATO in exchange for promised reforms in
parliament that would broaden rights for ethnic Albanians, who account for a
third of Macedonia's 2 million people.

But Macedonia's parliament has failed to even begin debating constitutional
amendments aimed at upgrading minority rights, and ethnic Albanian parties have
boycotted the sessions.

NATO Secretary-General Lord Robertson and Javier Solana, the European Union's
foreign policy chief, urged both sides to get on with the peace process.

RUSSIA

Kursk sub is outfitted to enter dry dock

The second of two huge pontoons was locked onto the barge carrying the nuclear
submarine Kursk on Thursday in preparation for moving the vessel into dry dock,
Russian news agencies reported.

The wreck of the submarine was raised from the floor of the Barents Sea last
week in an unprecedented naval engineering operation, then towed beneath a barge
to Roslyakovo.

LOAD-DATE: October 19, 2001

LANGUAGE: English

                  Copyright 2001 St. Louis Post-Dispatch, Inc.


                              32 of 275 DOCUMENTS

                       St. Louis Post-Dispatch (Missouri)

               November 21, 2001 Wednesday Five Star Lift Edition

MEXICAN MIGRATION IS BACK - AS LOWER-LEVEL ISSUE

BYLINE: Karen Branch-Brioso Post-Dispatch Washington Bureau

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. A10

LENGTH: 632 words

DATELINE: WASHINGTON


On Sept. 5, negotiations were on a fast track to legalize millions of
undocumented Mexican workers in the United States. At the White House, President
George W. Bush welcomed Mexican President Vicente Fox, who surprised him with a
challenge to "reach an agreement on migration before the end of this very year."

Then came Sept. 11, and the talks went to the back burner of Bush's agenda,
replaced by the fight against terrorism and the tightening of borders.

Tuesday, the negotiations came back to the table in a room at the State
Department. No heads of state were there. No Cabinet members, either. The
midlevel staff talks took place as Attorney General John Ashcroft met with a
more high-profile Mexican delegation about security.

But even a slow-track return to migration issues was welcomed by the Rev. Jack
Schuler of Our Lady of Guadalupe Church in Ferguson, a parish with many Mexican
immigrant parishioners, legal and otherwise.

"That will be very big to a lot of our people," Schuler said of the re sumption
of talks. "A number of them have been working here for a long time, and they
would like to be able to have the benefits of the taxes they are paying.
Especially now, so they can go back and forth."

Schuler said many undocumented immigrants won't return to their native Mexico
for Christmas this year, fearing that much-tightened border security wouldn't
permit them to come back to St. Louis.

They won't have relief from that fear anytime soon; the talks at the State
Department rekindled Tuesday with a focus on border security.

The four other issues being broached in the current talks:

* Legalization of undocumented workers living in the United States.

* A temporary guest-worker program.

* Increased visas for Mexicans.

* Development of Mexican communities that are the source of much illegal
immigration.

"We recognized that after Sept. 11, things had changed, but this continues to be
a priority," said Miguel Monterrubio, spokesman for the Mexican Embassy in
Washington. "We're sure we'll have an agreement - not this year, though."

Said Larry Birns, director for the Council on Hemispheric Affairs, a
Washington-based think tank: "It's a pro forma restart. Bush has made statements
after Sept. 11 that we have to remember the immigration issue, but he can't have
everything as a priority. The immigration issue for Mexico is a front-burner
issue. But for the United States, it's a back-burner issue and will be so
predictably for the next couple of months."

A State Department official said the group agreed Tuesday to hold their next
migration talks in January.

Birns said the talks are decelerating not only for the security issues prompted
by the terrorist attacks, but also by the sinking U.S. economy that has made a
guest-worker program less attractive.

"The alliance that existed before Sept. 11 included the trade union movement,
where the trade unions looked at Mexicans as a source for new members," Birns
said. "But now they have an unemployment problem."

The issue, however, does remain a high priority for Fox.

"Fox needs to create jobs - and he wants to create them in the United States,"
Birns said.

That's an equally laudable goal in the minds of mayors such as Alex Bregen of
Fairmont City, which became a majority-Hispanic town in the past decade, thanks
in no small part to Mexican immigrants.

"Probably 40 percent or half our population are here on work visas, working
toward citizenship," Bregen said. "They're all good, hard-working people.
They've revitalized our community. The dilemma is, sometimes their work visas do
expire and maybe some of them are here illegally. But they are very much a part
of this community. And any progress that would be made in these areas (of
migration accords) would be great."

LOAD-DATE: November 21, 2001

LANGUAGE: English

GRAPHIC: PHOTO; Photo from THE ASSOCIATED PRESS - Javier Mendez (center) of
Chiapas, Mexico, sits in a shelter for deported Mexicans last month in the
border city of Nuevo Laredo after being expelled from the United States. Mendez
said he had worked for more than 10 years in Springfield, Ill., before he was
deported.

                  Copyright 2001 St. Louis Post-Dispatch, Inc.


                              33 of 275 DOCUMENTS

                       St. Louis Post-Dispatch (Missouri)

                   December 2, 2001 Sunday Three Star Edition

GROWING HISPANIC POPULATION PRESENTS CHALLENGE FOR SMALL-TOWN FORCE;
 JOBS AT HOG-PROCESSING PLANT DRAWS IMMIGRANTS TO BEARDSTOWN, ILL.

BYLINE: The Associated Press

SECTION: METRO; Pg. D10

LENGTH: 613 words

DATELINE: BEARDSTOWN, ILL.


After years of handling domestic disputes and complaints about loud music,
Police Chief Steve Patterson is learning to deal with forged identification,
illegal immigrants and a language barrier.

Patterson runs the police force in Beardstown, a town 40 miles west of
Springfield that has seen hundreds - perhaps thousands - of Spanish-speaking
workers move in over the past few years.

"Mostly they come here to do their jobs and just want to be left alone,"
Patterson said.

Officially, the city's population is 5,700, according to the U.S. census. City
officials believe the number is closer to 7,000, thanks to a steady influx of
Hispanic immigrants in the past five years.

Much of the immigration involves people looking for jobs at the Excel Corp.
hog-processing plant. Patterson said there is a view in the community that
immigration has helped ensure the future of Excel, the city's largest employer.

No one knows how many Hispanic residents are in Beardstown illegally. But
Patterson recalled an incident this year in which 22 illegal immigrants were
picked up in a traffic stop.

The U.S. Immigration and Naturalization Service seldom has the manpower
available to pick up illegal immigrants in rural communities such as Beardstown.
Eventually, police had to release the group, Patterson said.

City officials cracked down on illegal rooming houses and apartments last summer
after authorities found a single-family house with 22 residents.

But most calls are typical of police work in a small community: domestic
disturbances, loud music and drug arrests.

Some members of the 13-officer force are learning Spanish, though it is not
mandatory.

There have been stressful moments.

Local residents still recall the fatal shooting in the summer of 1996 of
22-year-old Terry Brewer at a tavern. Police said Brewer and the chief suspect,
an immigrant who apparently has fled back to Mexico, had quarreled before.

The night after the slaying, a cross was burned in front of the tavern. A few
days later it was gutted in a suspicious fire. Some KKK literature also was
distributed around the community.

The 1996 incidents helped draw the attention of the U.S. attorney's office for
central Illinois.

A series of training programs and seminars were offered to help familiarize
local law-enforcement with basic immigration law, how to spot fake IDs and
illegal documents, handling arrests of illegal aliens and even housing issues.

Program coordinator Terry Lucas said law enforcement is only one element of the
program.

He said the primary goal is to help bridge the cultural differences between the
Hispanic community and local law enforcement. He noted that something as simple
as a traffic stop often can be misunderstood as harassment.

At Su Casa restaurant, informational cards are distributed that explain what to
do if stopped by police. The card advises in both Spanish and English, "I am
Hispanic. I do not speak-understand English."

Ramon Escapa, a native of Puerto Rico, became the lone Hispanic on the police
force when he joined the Beardstown department as a part-time patrol officer
last summer. He also is a junior at Western Illinois University at Macomb.

The 21-year-old Escapa, who completed law-enforcement-training classes to
qualify for the Beardstown job, remains on call as a translator for other
officers. He also is a regular visitor at local schools and civic organizations.

Escapa said he also has tried to make immigrants more comfortable with the
police department.

"A lot of times, it's really difficult to get them to speak up at all. I get to
hear their side of the story. For so long, it wasn't heard," he said.

LOAD-DATE: December 2, 2001

LANGUAGE: English

                  Copyright 2001 St. Louis Post-Dispatch, Inc.


                              34 of 275 DOCUMENTS

                       St. Louis Post-Dispatch (Missouri)

                December 8, 2001 Saturday Five Star Lift Edition

AFL-CIO ENDORSES AMNESTY FOR ILLEGAL IMMIGRANTS

BYLINE: Leigh Strope The Associated Press

SECTION: BUSINESS; Pg. 8

LENGTH: 418 words

DATELINE: LAS VEGAS


* Labor organization ends convention with ambitious organization and political
goals.

Labor leaders wrapped up the AFL-CIO's convention Thursday after setting
ambitious organizing and political goals.

But unions' declining membership, the popularity of a wartime president, the
recession and internal friction are roadblocks.

Among the resolutions that the nearly 1,000 delegates endorsed this week:

Amnesty for millions of illegal immigrants in the United States. It was the
first time the labor federation had officially promoted amnesty. About 7 million
illegal immigrants live in the United States.

The AFL-CIO, eager to reverse declining union membership, last year abandoned
its stance that immigrants were a threat to American jobs and started reaching
out to them.

Cutting back conventions to every four years instead of every two to reduce
expenses, and holding executive council meetings twice a year instead of three
times.

The federation is predicting a general revenue shortfall of as much as $5
million next year and $7 million in 2003. The AFL-CIO also predicts a 400,000
decline in membership next year because of the recession.

Urging action to address the nation's industrial and manufacturing crisis. More
than 1 million manufacturing jobs have been lost since July 2000. Steel is being
hit especially hard, with 25 companies forced into bankruptcy since 1998.

The federation called on Congress and the Bush administration to pursue trade
balance in negotiating agreements, to renegotiate the North American Free Trade
Agreement to strengthen labor and environmental provisions and to repeal the
foreign tax credit and the deferral of taxes on foreign profits that unions say
shifts jobs overseas.

Opposing the use of civil racketeering laws against unions because it "destroys
the democratic right of union members to choose their leadership, shifting that
power to unelected federal bureaucrats and ... appointees."

The federal government has had oversight of the Teamsters since 1989 as part of
a deal to rid the union of organized crime. "The goals of the consent decree
have now been secured," the resolution said. "No legitimate reason remains to
justify continued government intervention."

Urging unions to lobby lawmakers at all levels to ban the import of U.S. flags.

Internal rifts complicate labor's plans. The trade unions of the AFL-CIO often
are at odds with the rest of the federation, which tends to be more
liberal-leaning on social issues.

LOAD-DATE: December 8, 2001

LANGUAGE: English

                  Copyright 2001 St. Louis Post-Dispatch, Inc.


                              35 of 275 DOCUMENTS

                       St. Louis Post-Dispatch (Missouri)

                December 24, 2001 Monday Five Star Lift Edition

THE REAL COST OF CHICKEN

SECTION: EDITORIAL; Pg. B6

LENGTH: 452 words


TYSON FOODS

THE federal indictment of Tyson Foods executives goes to the heart of a painful
American charade. A law-abiding nation depends upon illegal immigrants to do the
dirtiest and most dangerous work at some of the lowest wages. The immigrants
travel great distances to do this work because there is nothing better for them
in their own countries. Without these laborers eagerly fleeing the poverty of
Mexico and Central America, the basic infrastructures of America's agriculture
and meat and poultry processing industries are subject to collapse. While we
arrest these people at our borders, we allow entire industries to entice them to
come.

The food industry is not a giant money-maker, but profits from Tyson's $10.75
billion in annual sales are healthy enough that senior chairman of the board Don
Tyson and chief executive officer John H. Tyson each pulled in more than $1
million in salary, bonus and other forms of compensation last year. Charges
stemming from the two-and-a-half-year undercover operation allege that
executives of the world's largest poultry company engaged in a widespread
conspiracy to recruit and smuggle hundreds of illegal aliens to work at 15
plants, and supply them with false documents. Two Missouri Tyson plants, in Noel
and outside Sedalia, are among the 15 plants cited.

Tyson responded to the indictment by firing four managers, suspending two others
and proclaiming its innocence. The company could face asset forfeiture in excess
of $100 million, based on allegedly illegal profits derived from lower wages
paid to aliens and Tyson's willful exploitation of them.

Running afoul of the law would break no new ground for Tyson. In 1998 the
company paid a $6 million fine after pleading guilty to giving $12,000 worth of
gifts, including football tickets and plane fares, to then-Agriculture secretary
Mike Espy. Tyson fought employees in federal court over whether it was required
to pay them for up to an hour a day they spend donning and removing their
required safety equipment.

The demand to keep chicken affordable for a broad range of consumers encourages
Tyson Foods to keep wages as low as it can get away with. The consumer who buys
chicken at affordable prices does not see the workers who sliced and packaged
it, and probably prefers not to think about what they endure to pry loose the
grip of poverty. But investigations such as the one of Tyson should challenge
all of us -- lawmakers, poultry moguls and consumers -- to rethink the true cost
of a pound of chicken.

People who come here from foreign lands to support American industries should be
treated humanely and paid a decent wage. It's worth a few pennies more.

LOAD-DATE: December 24, 2001

LANGUAGE: English

TYPE: EDITORIAL

                  Copyright 2001 St. Louis Post-Dispatch, Inc.


                              36 of 275 DOCUMENTS

                       St. Louis Post-Dispatch (Missouri)

                  December 30, 2001 Sunday Three Star Edition

AMNESTY FOR ILLEGAL ALIENS IS ON HOLD IN WAKE OF ATTACKS;
 BUSH BACKED LEGAL STATUS FOR THE UNDOCUMENTED - THEN CAME SEPT. 11;
 "THERE WAS A LOT OF HOPE"

BYLINE: The Associated Press

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. A5

LENGTH: 470 words

DATELINE: PHARR, TEXAS


Illegal Mexican immigrants had high hopes last summer of receiving amnesty from
the U.S. government. But now, after Sept. 11, the cause seems lost amid
clamped-down border security and greater suspicion of foreigners.

Months ago, President George W. Bush had signaled a commitment to grant legal
status to undocumented Mexicans, perhaps through a guest worker program linking
employer with employee. By November, though, U.S. officials were telling Mexico
that because of fears of terrorism, the immigration laws were unlikely to change
soon.

"Right now we certainly are in what could best be described as a lull," said
Bill Weinberg, spokesman for Rep. Luis Gutierrez, D-Ill.

A bill pushed by Gutierrez would legalize immigrants who could prove U.S.
residence since 1996. The current cutoff is 1972. By 2007, that entry date would
be 2001.

The bill has 45 sponsors, and immigrants rights groups had been planning a rally
and lobbying day Sept. 25 in Washington. After the Sept. 11 attacks, the
demonstration was canceled at Gutierrez's request.

Another provision would have extended an expired program that had allowed some
immigrants who entered the United States illegally or had overstayed their visas
- mostly those with spouses who were here legally - to pay a $1,000 fine and
apply for residency without having to leave the country. The extension was
dropped from a bill that the House passed Dec. 19.

"There was a lot of hope, a lot of optimism in our community," said Benjamin
Prado, coordinator of San Diego's La Raza Rights Coalition. "Now the situation
has changed dramatically."

For opponents of more open immigration, the attacks have helped them make their
case.

"Mexico is into this 'respect' business - we have to respect them, they don't
want to be looked down on. But we're entitled to have our borders respected,"
said Dan Stein, president of the Federation of American Immigration Reform,
which argues that unfettered immigration is harming the economy.

Legal status would allow many immigrants to cash paychecks, drive cars and stop
hiding. Their lack of papers can mean furtive lives, intermittent work and low
wages.

"If you don't have papers, they pay you less and they treat you badly," Juan
Hernandez, 28, a bus driver from Tijuana, Mexico, said bitterly.

Many say that their labor is needed in the United States and that they should be
respected for contributing to the economy.

Rosa Guzman, 29, of Alamo, Texas, wants a job in a supermarket or a Wal-Mart,
and maybe someday her own little store. She said she sees the help-wanted signs
all the time but knows it is pointless to apply.

"The first thing they ask for is the Social Security card," Guzman said.

For now, the single mother of four stays home, sometimes earning money by
selling tamales to neighbors.

LOAD-DATE: December 31, 2001

LANGUAGE: English

NOTES: WAR ON TERROR

                  Copyright 2001 St. Louis Post-Dispatch, Inc.


                              37 of 275 DOCUMENTS

                       St. Louis Post-Dispatch (Missouri)

                December 23, 2001 Sunday Five Star Lift Edition

NOT EVERYONE IS SHOCKED BY TYSON CHARGES;
 SOME IN NOEL, MO., ALREADY THOUGHT A NUMBER OF WORKERS WERE ILLEGAL

BYLINE: Gregory Cancelada Of The Post-Dispatch

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. A1

LENGTH: 791 words

DATELINE: NOEL, MO.


News that Tyson Foods Inc. executives and managers are facing charges of
smuggling undocumented workers stunned city leaders in this small southwest
Missouri town that is home to one of the company's processing plants.

But some in the community feel vindicated by the federal sting that yielded the
indictments last week.

Ronnie Olive, owner of Noel Flea Market on Sulfur Street, said the feeling he's
gotten from longtime residents is: "This should have happened long ago."

Tyson isn't disputing charges that allege six employees were involved in
smuggling workers into the United States and helping them obtain false
documents. Tyson's plant in Noel was among 15 plants in nine states involved in
the scheme, according to the Justice Department.

Tyson has fired four of the indicted employees, and the other two have been
placed on leave pending the outcome of the federal case.

But the poultry producer now is fighting a conspiracy charge. The company said
smuggling was conducted by a few managers operating outside of corporate policy
at only five of the 57 poultry processing plants.

In Noel, no one seems surprised that undocumented workers are a part of the
town's economy, which is driven by the chicken processing plant on the edge of
town. The plant employs about 1,265 people, which almost equals the size of the
town.

Since 1990, the Hispanic population of McDonald County has swelled tenfold to
2,030 last year, according to census figures. Hispanic residents now account for
about 9 percent of the population of the county, which includes Noel.

So far this month, William "Henry" McMahan, the town's city marshal, said he
reported to the Immigration and Naturalization Service six people suspected of
illegally working in the country.

These people had traffic violations or other run-ins with the police and didn't
have proper identification, he said.

The surprise to him Thursday morning came when the government fingered the
company for bringing in undocumented workers. "I was shocked when I read about
it in the newspaper," McMahan said.

While Tyson said it had no knowledge of the activity, some local residents
expressed skepticism.

"Tyson is a billion-dollar company and you're telling me it doesn't know what
goes on within the corporation," said Carrie Edens, an office manager working
for a local physician.

Tyson said it re-inspected its paperwork and that all employees now working at
the plant are properly documented.

Residents of Noel and Tyson workers say more than half of the workers at the
plant are Hispanic. A former Tyson employee said there earlier had been a bit of
a shakeup in the plant.

"About a month ago, they found a group of people who had bad papers," said the
former employee, who requested anonymity. Five people he knew were fired and
were forced to leave the community, since there wasn't much work available
outside of the plant.

Still, nobody in the community thinks the indictment changes the fact that
Hispanics are a vibrant part of the economy and are here to stay.

Hispanics make up about half of the business for Olive's flea market.

"They can't speak any English, and I can only speak four or five words of
Spanish. But we work with them," Olive said.

He said immigrants tend to come into the town needing a lot of items to start a
household, even if their stay may be temporary. So goods like pots and pans sell
well in his store.

The incentive for workers to cross the border is clear: Official wages at the
Tyson plant are about $7 per hour. That wage, with an eight-hour shift at the
Noel plant, adds up to more than 10 times the average daily wage in Mexico.

In contrast, most Noel natives don't have much interest in working for about $7
per hour in jobs that can require handling bird carcasses and packing chicken
parts in cold rooms, said Tony Catroppa, who owns a dance club in Noel.

"I don't know who else would work in that plant," he said, adding that he has
trouble finding people to fill entry-level jobs as cooks that pay $8 per hour.

Others counter that Noel natives would work in the poultry plant if they were
earning higher wages, something that won't occur as long as Tyson can rely on a
cheap work force.

Some residents aren't entirely happy about Noel's dependence on the poultry
plant, for reasons other than its pay scale.

Nancy Zoerlin, owner of Arthur Murray's Motel, sees the poultry plant as a
detriment to developing the town's tourism industry.

She depends on people canoeing the Elk River during the summer to keep her
business going. And the odors from the nearby plant make canoeing less
attractive.

"Chicken smells like money to them," Zoerlin said. "(Tyson) doesn't care what
happens to the community."

LOAD-DATE: December 27, 2001

LANGUAGE: English

NOTES: Reporter Gregory Cancelada; E-mail: gcancelada@post-dispatch.com; Phone:
314-340-8330

GRAPHIC: MAP, PHOTO; (1) Photo by Sam Leone / Post-Dispatch - Tyson Foods Inc.
employs about 1,265 people at its Noel, Mo., processing plant. That almost
equals the population of the town.; (2) Photo by Sam Leone / Post-Dispatch -
Noel, Mo., City Marshal Willaim "Henry" McMahan talks on Friday about migrant
Hispanic workers who work for six months at a time in his town and move on. (3)
Map - (NOEL, Missouri)

                  Copyright 2001 St. Louis Post-Dispatch, Inc.


                              38 of 275 DOCUMENTS

                       St. Louis Post-Dispatch (Missouri)

                  December 23, 2001 Sunday Three Star Edition

NOT EVERYONE IS SHOCKED BY TYSON CHARGES;
 SOME IN NOEL, MO., ALREADY THOUGHT A NUMBER OF WORKERS WERE ILLEGAL

BYLINE: Gregory Cancelada Of The Post-Dispatch

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. A1

LENGTH: 831 words

DATELINE: NOEL, MO.


News that Tyson Foods Inc. executives and managers are facing charges of
smuggling undocumented workers stunned city leaders in this small southwest
Missouri town that is home to one of the company's processing plants.

But some in the community feel vindicated by the federal sting that yielded the
indictments last week.

Ronnie Olive, owner of Noel Flea Market on Sulfur Street, said the feeling he's
gotten from longtime residents is: "This should have happened long ago."

Tyson isn't disputing charges that allege six employees were involved in
smuggling workers into the United States and helping them obtain false
documents. Tyson's plant in Noel was among 15 plants in nine states involved in
the scheme, according to the Justice Department.

Tyson has fired four of the indicted employees, and the other two have been
placed on leave pending the outcome of the federal case.

But the poultry producer now is fighting a conspiracy charge. The company said
smuggling was conducted by a few managers operating outside of corporate policy
at only five of the 57 poultry processing plants.

In Noel, no one seems surprised that undocumented workers are a part of the
town's economy, which is driven by the chicken processing plant on the edge of
town. The plant employs about 1,265 people, which almost equals the size of the
town.

Since 1990, the Hispanic population of McDonald County has swelled tenfold to
2,030 last year, according to census figures. Hispanic residents now account for
about 9 percent of the population of the county, which includes Noel.

So far this month, William "Henry" McMahan, the town's city marshal, said he
reported to the Immigration and Naturalization Service six people suspected of
illegally working in the country.

These people had traffic violations or other run-ins with the police and didn't
have proper identification, he said.

The surprise to him Thursday morning came when the government fingered the
company for bringing in undocumented workers. "I was shocked when I read about
it in the newspaper," McMahan said.

While Tyson said it had no knowledge of the activity, some local residents
expressed skepticism.

"Tyson is a billion-dollar company and you're telling me it doesn't know what
goes on within the corporation," said Carrie Edens, an office manager working
for a local physician.

Tyson said it re-inspected its paperwork and that all employees now working at
the plant are properly documented.

Residents of Noel and Tyson workers say more than half of the workers at the
plant are Hispanic. A former Tyson employee said there earlier had been a bit of
a shakeup in the plant.

"About a month ago, they found a group of people who had bad papers," said the
former employee, who requested anonymity. Five people he knew were fired and
were forced to leave the community, since there wasn't much work available
outside of the plant.

Still, nobody in the community thinks the indictment changes the fact that
Hispanics are a vibrant part of the economy and are here to stay.

Hispanics make up about half of the business for Olive's flea market.

"They can't speak any English, and I can only speak four or five words of
Spanish. But we work with them," Olive said.

He said immigrants tend to come into the town needing a lot of items to start a
household, even if their stay may be temporary. So goods like pots and pans sell
well in his store.

The incentive for workers to cross the border is clear: Official wages at the
Tyson plant are about $7 per hour. That wage, with an eight-hour shift at the
Noel plant, adds up to more than 10 times the average daily wage in Mexico.

In contrast, most Noel natives don't have much interest in working for about $7
per hour in jobs that can require handling bird carcasses and packing chicken
parts in cold rooms, said Tony Catroppa, who owns a dance club in Noel.

"I don't know who else would work in that plant," he said, adding that he has
trouble finding people to fill entry-level jobs as cooks that pay $8 per hour.

Others counter that Noel natives would work in the poultry plant if they were
earning higher wages, something that won't occur as long as Tyson can rely on a
cheap work force.

Some residents aren't entirely happy about Noel's dependence on the poultry
plant, for reasons other than its pay scale.

Nancy Zoerlin, owner of Arthur Murray's Motel, sees the poultry plant as a
detriment to developing the town's tourism industry.

She depends on people canoeing the Elk River during the summer to keep her
business going. And the odors from the nearby plant make canoeing less
attractive.

"Chicken smells like money to them," Zoerlin said. "(Tyson) doesn't care what
happens to the community."

For their part, Hispanics living in Noel say they are confident in the future.

"They're learning to accept us," said Peta Ramirez, a mother of four who has
lived in the town for the past seven years. "Some won't, but the majority does."

LOAD-DATE: December 27, 2001

LANGUAGE: English

NOTES: Reporter Gregory Cancelada; E-mail: gcancelada@post-dispatch.com; Phone:
314-340-8330

GRAPHIC: MAP, PHOTO; (1) PHOTO by SAM LEONE / POST-DISPATCH - Tyson Foods Inc.
employs about 1,265 people at its Noel, Mo., processing plant. That almost
equals the population of the town.; (2) PHOTO by SAM LEONE / POST-DISPATCH -
Noel, Mo., City Marshal William "Henry" McMahan talks on Friday about migrant
Hispanic workers who work for six months at a time in his town and move on. (3)
Map - (NOEL, Missouri)

                  Copyright 2001 St. Louis Post-Dispatch, Inc.


                              39 of 275 DOCUMENTS

                       St. Louis Post-Dispatch (Missouri)

                  June 22, 2001 Friday Five Star Lift Edition

TWO BROTHERS FROM MEXICO ARE CHARGED WITH TRANSPORTING ILLEGAL IMMIGRANTS

SECTION: METRO; Pg. B5

LENGTH: 150 words


A fatal crash this spring on Interstate 44 led to a federal indictment Thursday
of two brothers from Mexico City on charges they transported illegal immigrants.

Charged were Agustin Gomez-Rodriquez, 40, and Marco Antonio Gomez-Rodriquez, 27.
The older brother also has been charged in Phelps County in Missouri with
leaving the scene of an accident. He remains in state custody in Rolla, Mo.

The other brother is in federal custody. Both were expected to appear next week
in U.S. District Court in St. Louis.

Jesus Manuel Cortes-Alvarado, 25, of the Mexican state of Chiapas was killed in
the accident May 25 on I-44 near Rolla, the U.S. attorney's office said.
Cortes-Alvarado was among 15 illegal immigrants crowded into a Ford extended-cab
pickup, equipped with a camper shell, when it collided with a tractor-trailer.

Several other illegal immigrants riding in the truck were injured.

LOAD-DATE: June 22, 2001

LANGUAGE: English

                  Copyright 2001 St. Louis Post-Dispatch, Inc.


                              40 of 275 DOCUMENTS

                       St. Louis Post-Dispatch (Missouri)

                   July 4, 2001 Wednesday Three Star Edition

LAW & ORDER

SECTION: METRO; Law & Order Column; Pg. B2

LENGTH: 486 words


COLLINSVILLE

Man gets one-year term for transporting aliens

Miguel Sanchez-Cano, 29, of Mexico City, was sentenced Monday in federal court
in East St. Louis to one year and one day in prison for unlawful transportation
of illegal aliens.

Collinsville police said Sanchez-Cano was carrying 13 people when they s topped
his van April 11 on Interstate 55-70 near Illinois Route 159.

Two other men pleaded guilty to the same charge Monday in a separate case. Oscar
Aguazul, 35, and Jose Contreras-Gonzales, 34, both from Mexico, were stopped
April 19 by Okawville police in Washington County.

All of the illegal aliens involved have been returned to Mexico, said Assistant
U.S. Attorney Robert Garrison.

ST. CHARLES

Man gets 8 years in sexual assault

Matthew Meier, 25, of St. Charles, was sentenced in St. Charles County Circuit
Court last week to eight years in prison after pleading guilty to sexually
assaulting a teen-age boy he met on the Internet. Meier could have gotten life
in prison.

The sentence will be added to a four-year sentence he received on a federal
charge of using the Internet to try to induce minors to engage in sex acts. He
also must complete a federal treatment program for sex offenders.

Federal authorities said that between October 1999 and February 2000, Meier used
his computer to send messages and nude pictures to four juveniles, all from St.
Charles County. He asked them to have sex for money, authorities said.

Meier was charged with first-degree statutory sodomy in St. Charles County after
getting one teen-age boy to come to his home in the 200 block of Gumtree Drive
and sexually assaulting him in January last year, authorities said.

When the charges were filed, Meier was working as a classroom aide for Wild
Horse Elementary School in Chesterfield, which is part of the Rockwood School
District.

ST. CHARLES

Woman is sentenced for stealing

A 65-year-old woman from O'Fallon, Mo., must spend at least 120 days behind bars
for stealing from a dead former resident of the Charlevoix Healthcare and
Rehabilitation Center in St. Charles.

Clare D. Wechling, of the 2800 block of Royal Valley Way, was sentenced this
week by St. Charles County Circuit Judge Nancy Schneider after pleading guilty
two months ago to two counts of forgery and one count of stealing.

The judge sentenced Wechling to seven years in prison but retained a 120-day
jurisdiction - meaning if Wechling completes the four months successfully, the
judge could put her on probation. The maximum prison term would have been 21
years.

Authorities said Wechling falsely obtained power of attorney for one of the
nursing home's patients - Katherine Kramer, 78 - after Kramer died Sept. 12,
1998, and forged Kramer's signature for access to stocks and bank accounts.
Although Wechling did not admit to taking a particular amount, Kramer's son and
police said she stole at least $200,000.

LOAD-DATE: July 4, 2001

LANGUAGE: English

                  Copyright 2001 St. Louis Post-Dispatch, Inc.


                              41 of 275 DOCUMENTS

                       St. Louis Post-Dispatch (Missouri)

                October 14, 2001 Sunday Early Five Star Edition

ADVOCATES SEEK RELIEF FOR ILLEGAL ALIENS WHO LOST JOBS AFTER ATTACKS

BYLINE: The Associated Press

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. A15

LENGTH: 594 words

DATELINE: NEW YORK


They delivered pizzas to investment bankers, ironed the shirts of Wall Street
traders and bused tables in restaurants where multimillion-dollar deals were
sealed.

But many of the businesses where they toiled for low pay near the World Trade
Center have been closed since Sept. 11, leaving these undocumented workers
unemployed and ineligible for benefits.

The number of jobs lost in New York after the attacks is estimated at 100,000.
Advocacy groups estimate that thousands of the workers were immigrants - many of
them illegal aliens who are ineligible for unemployment payments.

Advocacy groups are beginning efforts to claim some aid for the workers. The
Tepeyac Association of New York, a group that helps undocumented Hispanics, is
organizing workers to tap into the hundreds of millions of dollars being donated
to help New York recover from the attacks.

"I think it's good for us to get the businesses open because our people can work
again, but what happens if there is no way to reopen the businesse s?" said the
group's executive director, Brother Joel Magallan. "These people have been
making this economy better and producing good things for people."

At a meeting last week at the association's offices, only four of the 50 people
there raised their hands when asked if they had found work.

Delfino Cielo spent the last three years as a restaurant busboy, making $450 to
$500 weekly, including his share of tips. But his restaurant at the World
Financial Center complex next to the trade center has no plans to reopen. And
his wife lost her dry cleaning job nearby because business was so slow the owner
had to lay off workers.

Some of the 20 restaurants where Cielo has tried to get work wouldn't take his
application because he is in the country illegally. Others have no openings
because business is slow.

"I fill out an application, and they never call me," Cielo said. "I had a little
money saved, but I had to pay the rent and the electricity and now it's all
gone."

Magallan told the workers that they can get some assistance to pay rent, and up
to two weeks in wages if they can prove they lost their jobs because of the
attacks. But advocates want to ensure that an estimated $1 billion in
longer-term assistance, which will eventually be doled out by m ore than 100
charities, will also be available to undocumented workers. Many charities are
still developing guidelines for distributing the money.

Cielo, who used to send $300 monthly to his mother and nephew in Mexico, said he
doesn't want to return because the economy is worse there.

He and others also fear that, if they return, they will lose out on a proposal
made before the attacks to grant legal status to up to 3 million undocumented
Mexicans in the United States.

But Felipe Cirne, 33, who made salads at a deli near the trade center for $325
weekly, said he will return to Puebla, Mexico, if he doesn't land a job soon.

Since the attacks, he has picked up only odd cleaning jobs for businesses
preparing to reopen. It's not enough to support his three children and wife who
live in Mexico.

Other advocacy groups say they will lobby to make sure that businesses that
receive grants to help them reopen provide decent wages for service workers,
said Margie McHugh, executive director of the New York Immigration Coalition.

"If we don't bring back the service sector in New York, we don't bring back New
York's economy," she said. "This is an ideal moment to be inserting economic
justice concerns into the rebuilding conversation."

LOAD-DATE: October 15, 2001

LANGUAGE: English

NOTES: AMERICA RESPONDS; Note: a shorter version of this article appeared in the
FIVE STAR LIFT Edition, page A15.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO; Photo by THE ASSOCIATED PRESS - Brother Joel Mallagan, executive
director of the Tepeyac Association of New York, speaks to a group of Mexican
immigrants Tuesday in New York. Many of the places where undocumented workers
were employed have closed since the attacks Sept. 11.

                  Copyright 2001 St. Louis Post-Dispatch, Inc.


                              42 of 275 DOCUMENTS

                       St. Louis Post-Dispatch (Missouri)

               October 24, 2001 Wednesday Five Star Lift Edition

BOOK EXPLAINS WHY MEXICAN MIGRANTS KEEP CROSSING THE BORDER

BYLINE: Joe Holleman Of The Post-Dispatch

SECTION: EVERYDAY MAGAZINE; Pg. E1

LENGTH: 770 words


* At least once a day, a Mexican wanting to make his or her way into the United
States dies trying.

Last year, 369 perished at the 2,000-mile border; more than 3,000 died in the
1990s. The United States has built more walls, hired more guards, and bought
more guns, helicopters and searchlights.

But still they keep coming.

Illegal migrant workers pay $1,000 and more to "coyotes" to guide them on their
dangerous journey, just so they can live in fear of being caught and make
minimum wages working in farmers' fields and fast-food restaurants.

Still they keep coming. And many end up in the St. Louis area.

But why do they take the risk? That's the main question asked by Ruben Martinez,
author of "Crossing Over: A Mexican Family on the Migrant Trail."

"To put it simply, they want their piece of the American Dream," said Martinez,
who will be in St. Louis on Thursday to promote his book.

"One man I interviewed thought about it and then told me 'I want to buy a
bicycle.' The guy never had a bike when he was a kid, and he wanted to be able
to have that."

Martinez, 39, is an Emmy award- winning journalist and one of the bright lights
in Hispanic issues in the United States. He received the Emmy for his work on a
Los Angeles-based public television show, "Life and Times."

He is a Loeb Fellow at Harvard University's Graduate School of Design a nd the
author of two other books: "East Side Stories; Gang Life in East L.A." and "The
Other Side: Notes from the New L.A., Mexico City and Beyond." In addition, he is
an associate editor at Pacific News Service, a correspondent for PBS' "Religion
and Ethics News Weekly," and has appeared as a commentator on "All Things
Considered," "Nightline," "Frontline" and CNN.

His latest book focuses on the Chavez clan of Cheran, in southern Mexico, about
200 miles west of Mexico City. The family has had ties to th e St. Louis area
for more than 10 years, with many family members working the agricultural fields
here.

Two of the subjects still live in St. Louis, albeit illegally -- Rosa Chavez and
her husband, Wence Cortez, and their two small children. The two agreed to be
interviewed on the promise that no photographs would be taken and that their
place of residence and employer would not be identified.

Rosa Chavez speaks little English and was even more apprehensive than her
husband. Chavez, 26, has learned about the pain of illegal immigration. In 1996,
three of her brothers were killed when the van in which they were crammed to
sneak across the border flipped over and crashed. The town of Cheran still
mourns the deaths, but it did not keep Chavez from crossing over in 1997.

Cortez is slightly more open in conversation, though still wary of strangers --
especially ones taking notes.

"I want my daughters to go to school here. The schools are much better here," he
said. "And it is very hard to find work in Cheron."

Martinez notes that a worker in Cheran will earn about $3 a day, a pittance when
compared to the U.S. minimum wage of $6 an hour, and will work up to 60 hours a
week.

As far as fear of being caught, Wence Cortez doesn't spend much time thinking
about it. He said that if he should be forced to return, he simply would cross
back over.

"I miss things in Mexico, like the food. But I want to stay here so I can make
enough money to build a house and maybe start my own business," he said as he,
Rosa and the two children sat in their small, neat apartment.

Cortez said bigotry is not a major problem, but a problem nonetheless.

"Some Americans do not like Mexicans, and they say so. But mostly it's all
right. The children all seem to play together OK," he said.

Martinez said his main goal for writing this book was to convey the sense that
the Mexican crossovers of today are no different than the immigrants of the last
century.

"I think it's human nature, unfortunately, to forget what we were and where we
came from. As Americans, we take a certain pride in that we are a nation of
immigrants," Martinez said. "But when we see new immigrants, it's an existential
reminder of where we came from.

"And, in reality, the Mexican journey is no different than the ones taken in
past years by Italians, Jews, Poles and other ethnic groups."

===

Ruben Martinez

What: The author will read from and sign his book

Where: 1 p.m. Thursday at the Bridgeton Trails Branch of the St. Louis County
Library, 3455 McKelvey Road; and 7 p.m. at the Crossroads School, 500
DeBaliviere Avenue.

How much: Free

More info: 314-291-7570; 314-367-8085

Published by Metropolitan Books, 328 pages, $26

LOAD-DATE: October 24, 2001

LANGUAGE: English

GRAPHIC: PHOTO, GRAPHIC; (1) PHOTO headshot - Ruben Martinez; (2) Color PHOTO -
(cover of book, "Crossing Over); (3) Graphic / Illustration - (a bootprint)

TYPE: REVIEW - BOOK - NONFICTION; "CROSSING OVER: A MEXICAN FAMILY ON THE
MIGRANT TRAIL"

                  Copyright 2001 St. Louis Post-Dispatch, Inc.


                              43 of 275 DOCUMENTS

                       St. Louis Post-Dispatch (Missouri)

                  November 16, 2001 Friday Three Star Edition

LAW & ORDER

SECTION: METRO; Law & Order Column; Pg. C2

LENGTH: 530 words


EAST ST. LOUIS

Restaurateur pleads guilty of defrauding government

Erasto Becerril, 38, a quarter-owner of three Cancun Mexican Restaurants in the
St. Louis area, pleaded guilty Thursday in federal court in East St. Louis of
conspiracy to defraud the government and harboring illegal aliens.

Officials said Becerril, 38, of Belleville, and the majority owner, Pedro Munoz
of Knoxville, Tenn., used 20 percent of each day's cash receipts from 1996 to
1998 to pay undocumented workers. Prosecutors alleged that the owners split any
remainder between themselves.

Munoz is awaiting trial on the same charges.

Officials said approximately $1.7 million in income was concealed at the
restaurants in Swansea, Collinsville and St. Ann, costing the government about
$350,000 in taxes.

During the same period, Becerril harbored 48 illegal aliens, officials said.

Becerril is a permanent resident alien. He faces between 15 and 30 months in
prison and a fine of more than $150,000. He also could be ordered to pay back
taxes.

ST. LOUIS

KSDK loses appeal in labor case

A federal appeals court upheld on Thursday a finding that KSDK (Channel 5)
violated the National Labor Relations Act by refusing to bargain with the union
representing assignment editors and producers.

A panel of the 8th U.S. Circuit Court of Appeals agreed with the National Labor
Relations Board that assignment editors and producers are employees and not
supervisors. As a result, they are protected by the National Labor Relations
Act, the court ruled.

KSDK had appealed the board's conclusion that the station violated the act by
refusing to negotiate with Local 4 of the International Brotherhood of
Electrical Workers, the bargaining agent for the editors and producers.

Man gets prison term for having gun

John DeShay Jr., 28, of the 3900 block of Chippewa Street, was sentenced
Thursday to a year and a day in prison for having a gun while under a court
order in a domestic violence case.

U.S. District Judge Charles Shaw handed down the sentence under the Violence
Against Women Act. The law, effective in 1994, creates a federal crime for
having a gun while under a court order of protection.

A 9 mm pistol fell from DeShay's waistband when he tripped at a department store
last year, the U.S. attorney's office said. Police recovered the gun, which was
loaded.

DeShay pleaded guilty on Aug. 30.

BETHALTO

Woman files suit against doctor

Leigh Ann St. Peters of Edwardsville filed suit Thursday seeking up to $150,000
from Dr. Kwangsup "Steven" Kim, who was convicted last year on a misdemeanor
charge of battery for fondling her.

St. Peters had gone to a doctor's office in Bethalto on June 23, 2000, seeking
treatment for a knee injury and a sore throat. Kim, of St. Louis, was working as
a substitute for the regular doctor that day, the suit says.

It says St. Peters required psychological counseling for anxiety and depression
after the incident.

The suit also asks for up to $150,000 each from TTG Locum Tenens Inc. of St.
Louis, the service that hired Kim as a temporary doctor, and St. Anthony's
Health Center of Alton, which owns the medical practice.

LOAD-DATE: November 16, 2001

LANGUAGE: English

                  Copyright 2001 St. Louis Post-Dispatch, Inc.


                              44 of 275 DOCUMENTS

                       St. Louis Post-Dispatch (Missouri)

              November 16, 2001 Friday Illinois Five Star Edition

LAW & ORDER

SECTION: METRO; Law & Order Column; Pg. C2

LENGTH: 495 words


EAST ST. LOUIS

Restaurateur pleads guilty of defrauding government

Erasto Becerril, 38, a quarter-owner of three Cancun Mexican Restaurants in the
St. Louis area, pleaded guilty Thursday in federal court in East St. Louis of
conspiracy to defraud the government and harboring illegal aliens.

Officials said Becerril, 38, of Belleville, and the majority owner, Pedro Munoz
of Knoxville, Tenn., used 20 percent of each day's cash receipts from 1996 to
1998 to pay undocumented workers. Prosecutors alleged that the owners split any
remainder between themselves.

Munoz is awaiting trial on the same charges.

Officials said approximately $1.7 million in income was concealed at the
restaurants in Swansea, Collinsville and St. Ann, costing the government about
$350,000 in taxes.

During the same period, Becerril harbored 48 illegal aliens, officials said.

Becerril is a permanent resident alien. He faces between 15 and 30 months in
prison and a fine of more than $150,000. He also could be ordered to pay back
taxes.

EDWARDSVILLE

Sentencing is delayed in boiling oil case

Sentencing for Joy Brown, convicted of throwing boiling cooking oil on her
ex-husband, was reset Thursday for Nov. 28. Brown, 23, of Edwardsville, remains
under house arrest.

She was convicted June 22 of two counts of heinous battery for burning Damien
Brown, 22, of Alton, in a dispute in her home last year.

Joy Brown faces a minimum of six years in prison.

ST. LOUIS

KSDK loses appeal in labor case

A federal appeals court upheld on Thursday a finding that KSDK (Channel 5)
violated the National Labor Relations Act by refusing to bargain with the union
representing assignment editors and producers.

A panel of the 8th U.S. Circuit Court of Appeals agreed with the National Labor
Relations Board that assignment editors and producers are employees and not
supervisors. As a result, they are protected by the National Labor Relations
Act, the court ruled.

KSDK had appealed the board's conclusion that the station violated the act by
refusing to negotiate with Local 4 of the International Brotherhood of
Electrical Workers, the bargaining agent for the editors and producers.

BETHALTO

Woman files suit against doctor

Leigh Ann St. Peters of Edwardsville filed suit Thursday seeking up to $150,000
from Dr. Kwangsup "Steven" Kim, who was convicted last year on a misdemeanor
charge of battery for fondling her.

St. Peters had gone to a doctor's office in Bethalto on June 23, 2000, seeking
treatment for a knee injury and a sore throat. Kim, of St. Louis, was working as
a substitute for the regular doctor that day, the suit says.

It says St. Peters required psychological counseling for anxiety and depression
after the incident.

The suit also asks for up to $150,000 each from TTG Locum Tenens Inc. of St.
Louis, the service that hired Kim as a temporary doctor, and St. Anthony's
Health Center of Alton, which owns the medical practice.

LOAD-DATE: November 16, 2001

LANGUAGE: English

                  Copyright 2001 St. Louis Post-Dispatch, Inc.


                              45 of 275 DOCUMENTS

                       St. Louis Post-Dispatch (Missouri)

                November 16, 2001 Friday Five Star Lift Edition

LAW & ORDER

SECTION: METRO; Law & Order Column; Pg. C2

LENGTH: 530 words


EAST ST. LOUIS

Restaurateur pleads guilty of defrauding government

Erasto Becerril, 38, a quarter-owner of three Cancun Mexican Restaurants in the
St. Louis area, pleaded guilty Thursday in federal court in East St. Louis of
conspiracy to defraud the government and harboring illegal aliens.

Officials said Becerril, 38, of Belleville, and the majority owner, Pedro Munoz
of Knoxville, Tenn., used 20 percent of each day's cash receipts from 1996 to
1998 to pay undocumented workers. Prosecutors alleged that the owners split any
remainder between themselves.

Munoz is awaiting trial on the same charges.

Officials said approximately $1.7 million in income was concealed at the
restaurants in Swansea, Collinsville and St. Ann, costing the government about
$350,000 in taxes.

During the same period, Becerril harbored 48 illegal aliens, officials said.

Becerril is a permanent resident alien. He faces between 15 and 30 months in
prison and a fine of more than $150,000. He also could be ordered to pay back
taxes.

ST. LOUIS

KSDK loses appeal in labor case

A federal appeals court upheld on Thursday a finding that KSDK (Channel 5)
violated the National Labor Relations Act by refusing to bargain with the union
representing assignment editors and producers.

A panel of the 8th U.S. Circuit Court of Appeals agreed with the National Labor
Relations Board that assignment editors and producers are employees and not
supervisors. As a result, they are protected by the National Labor Relations
Act, the court ruled.

KSDK had appealed the board's conclusion that the station violated the act by
refusing to negotiate with Local 4 of the International Brotherhood of
Electrical Workers, the bargaining agent for the editors and producers.

Man gets prison term for having gun

John DeShay Jr., 28, of the 3900 block of Chippewa Street, was sentenced
Thursday to a year and a day in prison for having a gun while under a court
order in a domestic violence case.

U.S. District Judge Charles Shaw handed down the sentence under the Violence
Against Women Act. The law, effective in 1994, creates a federal crime for
having a gun while under a court order of protection.

A 9 mm pistol fell from DeShay's waistband when he tripped at a department store
last year, the U.S. attorney's office said. Police recovered the gun, which was
loaded.

DeShay pleaded guilty on Aug. 30.

BETHALTO

Woman files suit against doctor

Leigh Ann St. Peters of Edwardsville filed suit Thursday seeking up to $150,000
from Dr. Kwangsup "Steven" Kim, who was convicted last year on a misdemeanor
charge of battery for fondling her.

St. Peters had gone to a doctor's office in Bethalto on June 23, 2000, seeking
treatment for a knee injury and a sore throat. Kim, of St. Louis, was working as
a substitute for the regular doctor that day, the suit says.

It says St. Peters required psychological counseling for anxiety and depression
after the incident.

The suit also asks for up to $150,000 each from TTG Locum Tenens Inc. of St.
Louis, the service that hired Kim as a temporary doctor, and St. Anthony's
Health Center of Alton, which owns the medical practice.

LOAD-DATE: November 16, 2001

LANGUAGE: English

                  Copyright 2001 St. Louis Post-Dispatch, Inc.


                              46 of 275 DOCUMENTS

                       St. Louis Post-Dispatch (Missouri)

                 December 10, 2000, Sunday, THREE STAR EDITION

PANEL LOOKS AT IMMIGRATION LAWS' EFFECTS

BYLINE: The Associated Press

SECTION: NEWS, Pg. A7

LENGTH: 360 words

DATELINE: WASHINGTONFOREIGNERS; INS; ALIENS


Children held for years in immigration detention centers. Asylum seekers
shackled at airports or tossed in county jails with felons. Immigrants deported
for incidents that occurred years ago.

Activists say such collisions between civil rights and immigration enforcement
occur daily under tough U.S. immigration laws.

The U.S. Commission on Civil Rights will scrutinize those laws and their effect
on immigrants' civil rights in an effort the commission calls "Crossing
Borders," chairwoman Mary Frances Berry said Friday at a meeting of the
eight-member panel.

Berry said the commission will visit detention centers, review immigration
policies, monitor enforcement and hold hearings for testimony from immigration
officials.

"This nation's immigration policies and the way that they are implemented have
obvious civil rights implications involving race, national origin and religious
discrimination issues," Berry said.

In particular, she said, the commission will examine the nation's treatment of
asylum seekers.

"Unfortunately, asylum seekers have not only suffered under an oppressive regime
in their native countries, but they may also be subjected to racial, ethnic,
religious and gender bias upon their arrival in America," Berry said.

A panel of advocates told the commission that asylum seekers often are deprived
of civil rights considered basic to this country, even though they seek
religious and political freedom.

They languish in detention centers as they try to work through a difficult
bureaucratic application process. They have a right to attorneys but lack the
money to hire them. Many do not speak English and wade through the process
without translators. Or they are held in county jails, sometimes sharing cells
with violent criminals, the advocates said.

"These are people who stood up for American values. They should be heralded when
they come to this country, not hounded," said William Schulz, Amnesty
International USA executive director.

Immigration officials had not seen the commission's preliminary report and were
not aware of the commission hearing, said Bill Strassberger, an INS spokesman.

LOAD-DATE: December 10, 2000

LANGUAGE: English

                  Copyright 2000 St. Louis Post-Dispatch, Inc.


                              47 of 275 DOCUMENTS

                       St. Louis Post-Dispatch (Missouri)

                January 2, 2002 Wednesday Five Star Lift Edition

LOCAL CASE MAY AFFECT U.S. LAW ON DEPORTATION ;
 NOW SOME ARE HELD WITHOUT HEARINGS

BYLINE: Karen Branch-Brioso Post-Dispatch Washington Bureau

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. A1

LENGTH: 1135 words

DATELINE: WASHINGTON


On Jan. 3, 2001, Vinodbhai Bholidas Patel of Creve Coeur finished a five-month
sentence for employing an undocumented worker from his native India. Yet Patel
still sits in jail.

Whether he stays there -- despite a federal appeals court decision that says his
incarceration with no hearing is unconstitutional -- has become a pivotal issue
for U.S. immigration law.

"The government has always conceded that if these individuals were citizens, the
Constitution would not permit their detention without an individualized bond
hearing," said Judy Rabinovitz, an American Civil Liberties Union lawyer who
argued Patel's case before the U.S. Court of Appeals in Pennsylvania. "Now, the
court has affirmed that right for all people within our borders.

This ruling could affect thousands of immigrants who have been locked up for
months, often years, while they contest deportation."

Patel's fate now rests with the Washington headquarters of the U.S. Immigration
and Naturalization Service, which customarily has a 45-day window to respond to
court orders. It could appeal the decision, which was issued Dec. 19, to the
Supreme Court.

"The government's position is we don't try cases in the media," INS spokeswoman
Karen Kraushaar said, declining to tip the government's hand in the potential
precedent-setting case.

For Patel's wife, four children and large extended family in St. Louis, the
issue is much more personal.

"I'm 1,200 miles from my family," said Patel, 55, in a phone interview Monday
from the immigration detention center at the York County, Pa., Jail. "I can call
them collect only, and a 15-minute, 20-minute call costs $25."

Patel, who goes by the name of "Jim," was hesitant to return a reporter's phone
calls. So was his brother, Vinod Patel. A family friend says they fear bad
publicity for their St. Louis area businesses: doughnut shops, hotels and bagel
shops. Jim Patel also fears a backlash against his four children, ages 18 to 23,
who live in Creve Coeur. And in the wake of the terrorism attacks of Sept. 11,
he fears an immigration backlash will lead to his deportation to India - more
than 17 years after the United States became his home.

"It's been real rough," said Vinod Patel, who served five months in a federal
prison facility at Leavenworth, Kan., for a document fraud charge in the same
case as his brother.

The sentences, meted out two years ago by then-U.S. District Judge Stephen
Limbaugh for the Eastern District of Missouri, were identical for related
misdeeds: document fraud for Vinod Patel, harboring aliens for Jim Patel. Both
brothers had entered plea agreements to one count after being charged in
multi-count indictments.

Limbaugh allowed Vinod Patel to serve first, followed by Jim Patel, so one would
be free to mind the businesses that they have built over the past decade.

But there was one stark difference between the crimes that became apparent only
after Vinod Patel was freed - and Jim Patel was a month into his prison term.
The government told Jim Patel it regarded his crime of alien harboring as an
aggravated felony. Under a 1996 immigration law, noncitizens convicted of
aggravated felonies face deportation and must be held without bond pending a
deportation hearing.

So from a jail dormitory that is home to 50 detainees, Jim Patel has fought two
legal battles. On one hand, he is arguing that his crime of harboring an alien
is not an aggravated felony at all, and thus not a deportable offense, because
he played no part in smuggling the alien into the United States.

"Alien smuggling is certainly a deportable offense and the law is very clear on
that," said the INS' Kraushaar, who quoted from the statute that defines as
deportable "any alien who knowingly has encouraged, induced, assisted, abetted,
or aided any other alien to try to (illegally) enter the United States."

But Patel's immigration lawyer, Jim Orlow, has appealed to federal court the INS
definition that lumps Jim Patel's crime of harboring an alien with the larger
law of smuggling.

"(Patel's) conviction was solely for conduct involving harboring of a single
alien, without any connection to that alien's admission, entry or transportation
into or within the United States," Orlow wrote last week in a brief submitted to
the Philadelphia-based appeals court. "Therefore, (Patel's) conviction was not
for an aggravated felony."

On the other hand, Patel is arguing that even as a noncitizen he has the
constitutional right for a bond hearing. He had been approved for U.S.
citizenship, but that approval was canceled after his indictment on a charge of
hiring an undocumented worker for his doughnut shop.

"I did a crime, which is not a violent crime. I made a mistake. I haven't robbed
a bank. I didn't hurt anyone. I just gave someone a job," Patel said. "I'm not a
danger to the community. I'm in here with my family suffering and also my
business is suffering. All I'm asking them is to let me go out and take care of
my family and my businesses. And whatever the outcome of my (deportation) case,
I will accept it."

On Dec. 19, the U.S. Court of Appeals in Philadelphia agreed he should be set
free. A three-judge panel ordered him "released from custody unless the
government makes a prompt individualized determination whether the continued
detention of Patel is necessary to prevent risk of flight or danger to the
community."

The court said it was unlikely Patel would be ruled a flight risk or a danger.
He has been in the country since 1984 and a legal resident of St. Louis since
1990.

Still, two weeks after the ruling in his favor, he remains in detention. The
U.S. Immigration and Naturalization Service has several options: Decide that he
is not a flight risk and let him out on bond while his deportation case
proceeds. Rule him a flight risk and keep him in jail. Or, appeal the U.S. Court
of Appeals ruling to the Supreme Court.

According to INS officials, they had no choice under the 1996 law but to keep
Patel in custody while he awaits deportation. They had the same position with
respect to deportable aliens from countries that refused to take them back -
such as Cuba or North Korea - until the U.S. Supreme Court ruled last year that
such detainees could not be held for more than six months.

"This is an outgrowth of the Supreme Court decision in the sense that both have
to do with indefinite detention, but it is different," Rabinovitz said.

"The Supreme Court decision dealt with people already ordered removed. (Patel's
case) is about people who are still fighting deportation. No one's ever said the
INS shouldn't be able to detain people who are a flight risk. But we're talking
about a fundamental liberty interest here. It's the core of due process. All the
court said is, you need to get a hearing."

LOAD-DATE: January 2, 2002

LANGUAGE: English

NOTES: Reporter Karen Branch-Brioso E-mail: kbranch@post-dispatch.com Phone:
202-298-6880

GRAPHIC: PHOTO; Color Photo Headshot - "Jim" Patel, Businessman from Creve Coeur

                  Copyright 2002 St. Louis Post-Dispatch, Inc.


                              48 of 275 DOCUMENTS

                       St. Louis Post-Dispatch (Missouri)

                 March 6, 2002 Wednesday Five Star Lift Edition

IMMIGRATION OFFICIALS DETAIN TWO JORDANIANS;
 THEY ARE ACCUSED OF WORKING ILLEGALLY

BYLINE: Susan Weich Of The St. Charles County Post

SECTION: ST. CHARLES COUNTY POST; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 472 words


Two Jordanian men are being detained by agents with the Immigration and
Naturalization Services after being found Tuesday in violation of immigration
laws. St. Charles County Sheriff's deputies had stopped the van in which the men
were traveling with a Kuwaiti man on Monday night, as they were eastbound on
Interstate 70 near Lake Saint Louis.

Several questions remain unanswered about all the case. INS officials had not
released their names, what type of work the men were doing here, where they were
heading or who owns the van they were traveling in.

The men had also been questioned by members of the FBI Task Force on Terrorism.
But Agent Joe Papes of the FBI said: "We don't think they have anything to do
with terrorism." He said the men had consented to a search of their van Tuesday,
but the search had yielded nothing suspicious.

Chester Moyer, agent in charge of the INS in St. Louis, said that the Jordanians
had been found to be working in this country illegally and were being held
temporarily at the INS office in St. Louis. Moyer said the two would be
transferred at some point to a county jail. He said the man from Kuwait was not
in violation of any laws and could be released soon.

Red flags were raised Monday night when the men's van was pulled over on I-70 at
the Lake Saint Louis exit. They were stopped for a minor vehicle violation, but
deputies noticed that the van had California registration, which was not
registered to any of the men in the van.

Police also said that one the occupants who had been sitting in the back had
ducked down when deputies approached the van in what appeared to police to be an
attempt to hide.

Lt. Craig McGuire with the St. Charles County Sheriff's Department said that the
deputies contacted agents of the INS, who responded to the scene. The agents
told deputies to take the men into custody because the paperwork the men were
carrying said their visas had expired.

He said that little information could be gotten from the men - who are ages, 23,
31 and 33 - because none of them spoke fluent English. The men had to be
questioned through an interpreter the police reached by phone. McGuire said the
men had between $3,500 and $4,000 in cash on them at the time of their arrest.

Moyer said an investigation showed that the men were in this country legally. He
said that the men had applied for extensions to their visas but had not yet
received their new paperwork. But the visas had not allowed the Jordanians to
work here.

McGuire said the traffic stop had not been a result of profiling, saying it was
too dark outside to see who was in the van. "We didn't do anything differently
there than we would have before Sept. 11," he said. "It was the totality of the
circumstances and the red flags that were raised caused us to do what we did.

LOAD-DATE: March 6, 2002

LANGUAGE: English

NOTES: Reporter Susan Weich: E-mail: sweich@post-dispatch.com Phone:
636-946-3903, ext. 227

                  Copyright 2002 St. Louis Post-Dispatch, Inc.


                              49 of 275 DOCUMENTS

                       St. Louis Post-Dispatch (Missouri)

                 June 29, 2002 Saturday Five Star Lift Edition

AGENCY VOWS TO PROTECT ILLEGAL WORKERS FROM BIAS

BYLINE: The Associated Press

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 199 words

DATELINE: WASHINGTON


The government will continue efforts to protect illegal workers from racial and
sexual discrimination, despite a Supreme Court ruling that bars them from
winning back pay if wrongly fired.

"It's important that we treat any type of employment discrimination the same
regardless of immigration status," Cari Dominguez, chairwoman of the Equal
Employment Opportunity Commission, said Friday.

The Supreme Court ruled in March that employers cannot be forced to give back
pay to undocumented workers who are wrongly fired or demoted, or to reinstate
them to their jobs.

Dominguez said the EEOC is still studying the effects of the ruling, but other
remedies will remain available to punish employers and protect illegal workers.

The agency announced Friday that it had directed field offices to pursue cases
without regard to workers' immigration status.

The court ruling came in a case involving the National Labor Relations Board,
which protects employees against punishment for engaging in union activities.

The EEOC enforces laws that protect workers, regardless of immigration status,
from discrimination based on their race, religion, sex, national origin, age or
disability.

LOAD-DATE: June 29, 2002

LANGUAGE: English

                  Copyright 2002 St. Louis Post-Dispatch, Inc.


                              50 of 275 DOCUMENTS

                       St. Louis Post-Dispatch (Missouri)

               March 28, 2001, Wednesday, FIVE STAR LIFT EDITION

REPORT SAYS CUMBERSOME PROCESS DELAYS VISAS FOR SKILLED IMMIGRANT WORKERS;
DECLINING NATIVE WORK FORCE, AGING POPULATION MAY BRING LESS RESTRICTIVE;
IMMIGRATION LAWS

BYLINE: Gargi Chakrabarty; Of The Post-DispatchLBIZ; IMMIGRATION LAWS; SHORTAGE;
SKILLED WORKERS; DEMAND; RULES; REGULATIONS; INS WORK VISAS; GREEN CARD;
PERMITS; EMPLOYMENT COMMITTEE FOR ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT; REPORT; NEED IMMIGRANT
LABOR; CED

SECTION: BUSINESS, Pg. C1

LENGTH: 855 words


When Ravi Kalintri landed a job as a consultant last year, he was thrilled. His
employer, Cap Gemini Ernst & Young LLC, not only offered him an attractive
package, but also promised to take care of his visa status.

Being an Indian citizen, Kalintri, 26, could work in the United States only with
a H-1B visa, required for skilled workers. His company applied for the visa
nearly six months ago, but Kalintri is yet to receive his visa documents from
the federal Immigration and Naturalization Service.

"The INS has a hotline number, but nobody picks up the phone if you call during
office hours," he said. "I called during the after hours and by punching my case
number, I got to know that my case has been approved."

"I am still waiting to see the documents," he added. Without the visa papers,
Kalintri cannot re-enter the country if he travels abroad. But he is relieved
that his H-1B has been approved.

Armed with a master's degree in engineering from the University of
Missouri-Columbia, Kalintri is one among millions of skilled workers who aspire
to work in the United States. If the Committee for Economic Development is to be
believed, the U.S. needs more of these skilled immigrant workers than ever
before.

A Washington-based private organization backed by several Fortune 500 companies,
the CED has made a plea to Congress to loosen immigration rules for highly
skilled workers.

"The demand for highly skilled workers will grow rapidly in the coming years,
and major changes in U.S. immigration policy will be necessary to meet that
demand," said a CED report released last week.

Some experts are skeptical about the chances of achieving those changes.

"I have mixed feelings about relaxing immigration laws," said Raymond Hilgert,
professor of management and industrial relations at Washington University's Olin
School of Business. "Organized labor sees it as lowering their salary standards,
while the businesses need to cut down their costs and improve efficiency. I feel
for both the parties," he said.

"However, with the recent economic downturn and job layoffs, I am not sure if
there is a skilled labor shortage anymore," he added.

Hilgert also pointed out cultural and language differences, which can make it
difficult to deal with skilled immigrants in the workplace.

"More than 30 percent of our faculty in the business and engineering departments
are immigrant professors," he said. "They can't provide the (U.S.) cultural and
historical perspective while teaching American students. It takes some time,
maybe a few months, before they learn the language properly and communicate
better with students."

Apart from ignoring cultural implications, the CED report was criticized by the
American Immigration Lawyers Association for focusing entirely on skilled
immigrant workers and excluding "essential" workers.

Essential workers include semi-skilled health care, construction and restaurant
workers, among others, who don't qualify for H-1B visas, said Judith Golub,
senior director of advocacy and public affairs with the association. "We are
concerned that demand for essential immigrant workers has not been highlighted
by the CED," she said. Semi-skilled workers may qualify for visa classifications
other than H-1B.

The CED report, however, downplayed these concerns, stating that an impending
shortage of skilled workers could adversely affect the domestic economy.

"Despite the recent economic slowdown, action is needed now if the United States
is to adapt to a rapidly aging population, a declining native work force, and an
expanding need for skilled labor," it stated.

The report also criticized the INS for taking too long to process H-1B visas
besides placing too much burden on the employers.

"The immigration system's current administrative inefficiencies thwart the
timely processing of visa applications, place an undue hardship on immigrant
workers, and leave business hanging in bureaucratic limbo," said Charles Kolb,
president of CED.

INS officials could not be reached for comment Tuesday.

Typically, it takes one to three years to get an H-1B visa from the time of
application, said Lilian Fernandez, an immigration attorney in St. Louis.

One of her clients in Ohio has been waiting since Oct. 1998 for her H1-B visa
documents, she added.

Fernandez, whose firm - Armstrong Teasdale LLP - processes more than 50 H-1B
visa applications every month, said the three-stage visa application process
required to get a Green Card (permanent visa) is very discouraging for most
employers.

"First, the employer has to sponsor the visa and bear all the cost, including
attorney's fees which could be $ 1,500 or more," Fernandez said. "Then the
employer has to contribute $ 1,000 toward a fund to train American employees."

The employer also has to prove to the U.S. Labor Department that a minimally
qualified American worker would be unable to take the job of the immigrant
worker, she added.

The complicated process "is partly the reason why employers are so hesitant to
offer employment to skilled immigrant workers," she said.

LOAD-DATE: March 28, 2001

LANGUAGE: English

GRAPHIC: PHOTO Color Photo by WENDI FITZGERALD / POST-DISPATCH - Dr. Ping Li, a
research associate in anesthesiology at the Washington University School of
Medicine, performs tests on the effects of pain medication. Dr. Li, who is from
Tianjin, China, has been in the U.S. for four and a half years, and is waiting
for her green card status.

                  Copyright 2001 St. Louis Post-Dispatch, Inc.


                              51 of 275 DOCUMENTS

                       St. Louis Post-Dispatch (Missouri)

              October 18, 2000, Wednesday, FIVE STAR LIFT EDITION

IMMIGRATION OFFICERS ARREST 38 WANTED FOR SMUGGLING FOREIGNERS INTO THE U.S.;
AUTHORITIES HAD HELP FROM SEVERAL COUNTRIES IN LATIN AMERICA

BYLINE: The Associated Press

SECTION: NEWS, Pg. A12

LENGTH: 383 words

DATELINE: WASHINGTONINS; ILLEGAL ALIENS; SMUGGLERS; OPERATION; ARREST
INVESTIGATION


U.S. immigration officers working with officials in Mexico and five Central
American nations have arrested 38 people wanted for smuggling foreigners into
the United States. Immigration officials detained 3,500 people before they got
to the United States.

Immigration Commissioner Doris Meissner announced the results of the operation
at a news conference Tuesday. The three-week operation began Sept. 21.

She said the joint operation was an "extremely cost-effective" way to attack the
growing, "nasty and vicious" billion-dollar alien smuggling business. Catching
smugglers and their clients in Latin America saves the U.S. government the cost
of finding and detaining illegal aliens and "is much less dangerous for the
migrants," whose lives often are put at risk during their journey, she said.

The most significant arrest was made with help from the Guatemalan government.
Two individuals working in Guatemala for the U.S. Immigration and Naturalization
Service found Jose Leon Castillo, believed to be a lea der in the smuggling
trade. Guatemala expelled him to his native country, Honduras, by putting him on
a plane that went first to the United States, said Richard Cravener, head of the
immigration service's Houston office. Upon his arrival in Los Angeles on Oct. 5,
Castillo was arrested. He will be transferred later this month to Houston, where
he faces federal alien smuggling charges.

The immigration service considers Castillo one of the hemisphere's most
notorious smugglers. Meissner said that Castillo has smuggled thousands of
illegal aliens into the United States during his more than five years running a
major operation.

The other Central American countries taking part in the operation were Belize,
El Salvador, Honduras and Panama. Thirty-four of the 38 smugglers were arrested
outside the United States and face charges where they were taken into custody.

The 3,500 migrants detained abroad were destined for this country; most had paid
up to $ 3,800 apiece to the smugglers, Meissner said. The migrants came from 25
different countries, but primarily from Guatemala, Honduras, Ecuador and El
Salvador. They were detained for immigration violations in the cooperating
countries and most were returned to their country of origin, U.S. officials
said.

LOAD-DATE: November 2, 2000

LANGUAGE: English

                  Copyright 2000 St. Louis Post-Dispatch, Inc.


                              52 of 275 DOCUMENTS

                       St. Louis Post-Dispatch (Missouri)

                January 17, 2002 Thursday Five Star Lift Edition

ST. LOUIS-AREA BUSINESSMAN WINS FREEDOM WHILE FIGHTING DEPORTATION;
 APPEALS COURT RULING ALLOWS INDIA NATIVE TO BE RELEASED ON BOND

BYLINE: Karen Branch-Brioso Post-Dispatch Washington Bureau

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. A8

LENGTH: 637 words

DATELINE: YORK, PENN.


At 4:19 p.m. Wednesday, more than a year after finishing a five-month sentence
for hiring an illegal alien, Vinodbhai "Jim" Patel walked out the chain-link,
razor-wire-trimmed gate of York County Prison - and into the embrace of his
brother, cousins and wife.

"I got my freedom back!" the 55-year-old Creve Coeur businessman said as tears
spilled from his eyes.

Freedom came at the price of a $50,000 bond. It was set Monday by the U.S.
Immigration and Naturalization Service - and posted Wednesday by V inod Patel,
33, his brother and business partner in a chain of St. Louis-area doughnut
shops, bagel shops and hotels. The bond is hefty for a "criminal alien," the INS
term for Jim Patel, a native of India who has lived for 17 years in the United
States.

That bond was set at all was unusual. A 1996 immigration law requires mandatory
detention of most criminal aliens - without a chance for bond - while they await
deportation, in some cases for years. In Patel's case, a federal appeals court
in Philadelphia ruled last month that the law is unconstitutional for people
like Patel because they are contesting their deportation.

It's an issue expected to spark an INS appeal to the Supreme Court. A source at
the Justice Department, which oversees the INS, said "the matter is under
review."

"God bless America!" Patel said, in between the trio of kisses he gave to the
asphalt of the prison parking lot, where his family's Chevy Astrovan awaited the
14-hour drive home.

Patel is fighting his deportation to India, challenging a finding by immigration
judges that the crime he pleaded guilty of - harboring an illegal alien - is an
aggravated felony, automatic grounds for deportation.

Patel's lawyer, Jim Orlow of Philadelphia, won a stay of his deportation in the
federal appeals court.

"We're going to work it out"

The challenges to the immigration laws and rulings come during the arrests of an
unprecedented number of immigrants as part of the Justice Department's
anti-terrorism sweep.

But the rulings in Patel's and future cases aren't expected to have much of an
effect on the hundreds detained in the arrests after - because most of them
aren't charged with crimes, said University of Virginia law professor David A.
Martin, a former general counsel of the INS.

"We're going to work it out," Jim Patel said as he took a cell phone call from
his 21-year-old son, Milan, and hiked up the polyester pants that used to fit
him - 25 pounds ago - when he reported to prison in August 2000. "Eventually,
we're going to win the case."

Jim Patel, who pleaded guilty to the harboring charge after he and his brother
were charged in multiple-count indictments, said he "gave one (illegal alien) a
job." The federal government dropped the other charges against him, including
document and visa fraud. "I did nothing else."

He and his brother, Vinod, served identical sentences. Each paid fines of
$37,400. Vinod served five months first for identification document fraud -
allowed by the judge so that the brothers could continue running their
businesses. Then Jim went to prison, and a month later, he found out that in the
eyes of immigration law, his was a deportable offense while his brother's was
not.

Vinod was released when his sentence ended. As he ran the family doughnut shops
and hotels, he also made a monthly drive to York to visit Jim. But Wednesday's
trip, they both hope, will be the last to York County Prison.

"People in there are crying, living the way they do," Jim Patel said as he and
his wife, Sivata, looked at each other in the prison parking lot, their eyes
brimming with a different kind of tears.

He said his first order of business will be to stay away from business - for one
week: "I'm going to spend time with my family and give them the love I lost."

LOAD-DATE: January 17, 2002

LANGUAGE: English

NOTES: Reporter Karen Branch-Brioso; E-mail: kbranch@post-dispatch.com; Phone:
202-298-6880

GRAPHIC: PHOTO; Photo headshot - "Jim" Patel - Operates shops and hotels with
brother;

                  Copyright 2002 St. Louis Post-Dispatch, Inc.


                              53 of 275 DOCUMENTS

                       St. Louis Post-Dispatch (Missouri)

               February 14, 2002 Thursday Five Star Lift Edition

NATION/WORLD

BYLINE: From News Services

SECTION: NEWS; Nation/World Briefs Column; Pg. A11

LENGTH: 487 words


WASHINGTON

Ashcroft aims to keep guns from illegal immigrants

The Immigration and Naturalization Service and the FBI will begin working
together to keep illegal immigrants from buying guns, Attorney General John
Ashcroft announced Wednesday. "We must do everything we can to ensure that
prohibited persons, including prohibited aliens, do not receive guns," Ashcroft
said.

Under the plan, the FBI would check with the INS to determine the immigration
status of foreigners who try to buy firearms. Currently a person in the country
illegally may be able to pass a background check and get a gun because his or
her name does not necessarily come up on databases of prohibited people on the
FBI's National Instant Check System.

BOSTON

Court backs Farrakhan in men-only speech suit

Nation of Islam leader Louis Farrakhan had no legal obligation to admit women
into a leased theater for one of his speeches, the state's highest court ruled
Wednesday.

Marceline Donaldson and her husband, Robert Bennett, sued Farrakhan, a local
mosque and others after Donaldson was denied admittance to a Farrakhan speech in
1994 because she is a woman.

The Supreme Judicial Court ruled that the state's public accommodation laws did
not compel Farrakhan to address women in a men's mosque meeting. The local
mosque had leased the Strand Theatre in Dorchester for the speech.

HARTFORD, Conn.

Ex-Yale professor gets 15 years for child porn

A former Yale University professor was sentenced to 15 years in federal prison
Wednesday for downloading 150,000 images of child pornography onto his computer.

Antonio Lasaga, 52, a geologist, was arrested in 1998 after police found the
pictures on a computer in a school laboratory and at his home, along with
explicit homemade videos. The school fired him last year.

Lasaga also pleaded no contest to state charges that he sexually assaulted over
six years a New Haven boy for whom he served as a mentor. He will be sentenced
on those charges Friday.

LOS ANGELES

Suspicious object leads to evacuation at airport

A terminal at Los Angeles International Airport was evacuated for about an hour
Wednesday after someone reported seeing a suspicious container in shrubs near an
entrance.

The plastic object was found in a planter and turned out to be harmless.

As the international terminal was being cleared, hundreds of travelers left the
building as police cars and the bomb squad filled the area. Other airport
buildings remained open for arrivals and departures.

IRAN

Snow, fog slow recovery of plane crash victims

Heavy snow and dense fog prevented rescue workers Wednesday from recovering
dozens of bodies from a mountain in western Iran where a leased Russian-built
airliner crashed with 117 people on board.

The Tu-154 Tupolev airliner, operated by state-owned Iran Air Tours, went down
in bad weather Tuesday outside Khorramabad, 230 miles southwest of Tehran.

LOAD-DATE: February 14, 2002

LANGUAGE: English

                  Copyright 2002 St. Louis Post-Dispatch, Inc.


                              54 of 275 DOCUMENTS

                       St. Louis Post-Dispatch (Missouri)

               August 16, 2000, Wednesday, FIVE STAR LIFT EDITION

IMMIGRATION AGENTS ARE HONORED FOR ROLES IN RAID TO SEIZE ELIAN GONZALEZ

BYLINE: The Associated Press

SECTION: NEWS, Pg. A14

LENGTH: 173 words

DATELINE: BRUNSWICK, GA.BRUNSWICK, GEORGIA; INS AGENT; ACCOMMODATION; RESCUE;
MISSION CHILD; CUBAN CUSTODY BATTLE


Scores of agents who had roles in the seizure of Elian Gonzalez from his Miami
relatives were honored Tuesday by Immigration Commissioner Doris Meissner.

In a ceremony at the Federal Law Enforcement Training Center, Meissner praised
more than 100 Immigration and Naturalization Service workers for their long
hours of work in bringing "Operation Reunion" to a close.

The operation ended April 22 when eight heavily armed Border Patrol agents took
the boy from the Miami home. Meissner said the seizure was necessary and that
all agents "did an outstanding job under some of the most trying circumstances
imaginable."

Cuban-Americans who opposed Elian's court-ordered return to Cuba with his father
protested his seizure. Many objected to the display of force captured in an
Associated Press photograph that showed a goggled agent holding an MP-5
submachine gun as he took 6-year-old Elian. The child had been rescued five
months earlier after a boat carrying him from Cuba was wrecked at sea, killing
his mother and others.

LOAD-DATE: August 16, 2000

LANGUAGE: English

                  Copyright 2000 St. Louis Post-Dispatch, Inc.


                              55 of 275 DOCUMENTS

                       St. Louis Post-Dispatch (Missouri)

               September 22, 2000, Friday, FIVE STAR LIFT EDITION

CUBANS WHO SURVIVED PLANE CRASH WHILE FLEEING COUNTRY WILL BE ALLOWED TO SEEK;
U.S. RESIDENCY;
PILOT BECAME LOST, WAS FORCED TO DITCH PLANE IN SEA

BYLINE: The Associated Press

SECTION: NEWS, Pg. A2

LENGTH: 327 words

DATELINE: KEY WEST, FLA.INS; IMMIGRANTS; POLITICAL ASYLUM; ALIENS; ACCIDENT


Immigration officials cleared the way Thursday for all nine Cubans who survived
a plane crash at sea to stay in the United States and seek residency.

Six of the survivors were released from the Krome Detention Center and taken to
a clinic for a medical checkup. They will be released to relatives in Miami,
attorney Roberto Villasante said.

All were paroled to the United States, allowing them to apply for residency,
said Patricia Mancha, spokeswoman for the Immigration and Naturalization
Service. That process can begin next September.

Parole also was expected for the remaining survivors, 6-year-old Andy Fuentes
and his parents. Andy's American relatives took the boy to Kmart on Thursday,
helping him get some shoes as well as inline skates, a basket ball, a football,
a baseball bat and helmet and blue socks.

"I had a pair of skates in Cuba," the boy reportedly told his Cuban-American
grandfather and uncle in Spanish. "They were made of plastic, and they were
garbage."

His parents - Rodolfo Fuentes and Liliana Ponzoa, both 36 - remained in a Key
West hospital but were expected to be released Friday.

The family and seven others left Cuba on Tuesday, taking off from a rural
airfield in a Soviet-built crop-duster. Low on fuel, the plane was ditched into
the Gulf of Mexico between Cuba and Mexico, killing one of the men aboard. The
others were rescued by a nearby cargo ship.

"The escape ... was planned way before," said Fuentes' brother, Rafael, who said
he talked to Rodolfo in the hospital. "The bad part is that the pilot got lost.
... The pilot realized he was running out of fuel so he stopped looking for land
and started looking for a boat."

The survivors were taken to Key West and Miami, where they were interviewed for
eligibility to stay in the United States.

The Cuban Adjustment Act allows Cubans who reach American soil to apply for U.S.
residency, but most Cubans picked up at sea usually are repatriated.

LOAD-DATE: November 2, 2000

LANGUAGE: English

                  Copyright 2000 St. Louis Post-Dispatch, Inc.


                              56 of 275 DOCUMENTS

                       St. Louis Post-Dispatch (Missouri)

               October 28, 2000, Saturday, FIVE STAR LIFT EDITION

ANOTHER SPENDING BILL CLEARS CONGRESS, AND ANOTHER VETO LOOMS

BYLINE: The Associated Press

SECTION: NEWS, Pg. 26

LENGTH: 872 words

DATELINE: WASHINGTONPOLITICS; SENATE; HOUSE; BUDGET; FISCAL


* This time, immigration policy disagreements threaten to sink a measure to
finance the Commerce, Justice and State departments.

Congress gave final approval Friday to a $ 39.9 billion bill that has become
entangled in a pre-election veto battle over immigration, spending and taxes.

By a 49-42 vote, the Senate approved a measure that President Bill Clinton has
threatened to veto because, among other objections, it doesn't revise
immigration laws as broadly as he wants. The bill also would finance the
departments of Commerce, Justice and State for this fiscal year, which began
Oct. 1.

Clinton accused Republicans of having "closed the doors to compromise," and
White House and congressional officials said Clinton would veto the measure
promptly.

But in a sign of potential progress, a new round of budget talks began that were
aimed at resolving differences on that bill and a separate measure covering
labor, health and education programs.

On a day in which strategies shifted repeatedly, Senate Majority Leader Trent
Lott, R-Miss., had said just hours earlier that the spending bills and a
separate $ 240 billion, 10-year tax bill that Clinton has also threatened to
veto would not be sent to the White House until at least Tuesday.

It still appeared likely that the Senate would not vote on the tax bill until
next week. That would leave just days until the Nov. 7 presidential a nd
congressional elections - a period when a high-profile budget battle could have
an unpredictable effect on voters.

At the White House, Clinton signed without ceremony appropriations bills for
veterans, housing, energy and water programs.

Clinton announced the signings in the Rose Garden and told reporters he was
disappointed that Republican leaders had met among themselves and then wrote a
tax plan "for the benefit of the elements in the right wing of their caucus."

"The Republican leadership closed its doors to compromise - literally closed the
doors to compromise," Clinton said. "The Republican tax package fails to meet
the test of fairness to our children, our seniors or the millions of Americans
without health care coverage. If it reaches my desk in its present form, I will
have no choice but to veto it."

GOP bargainers began showing compromise in budget talks, offering $ 4.5 billion
for Clinton administration priorities for schools, health and labor programs,
said one person familiar with the discussions. That was $ 1 billion more than
Republicans had offered earlier in the week and was in addition to $ 600 million
they would add for their own priorities.

Friday's negotiating focused on the $ 39.9 billion measure for the departments
of Commerce, Justice and State, which the House approved Thursday, 206-198, and
a separate $ 350 billion measure for labor, health and education programs.

Another one-day stopgap bill to keep agencies open was approved by the House,
366-13, and the Senate, 86-3. This was the seventh such extension since the
fiscal year began Oct. 1 without most of the budget bills completed.

The House approved the tax bill, 237-174, on Thursday. Like the House vote on
the spending bill Thursday, it fell short of the two-thirds majority needed to
reverse a presidential veto.

Even so, the brewing confrontation seemed likely to draw public attention to
this year's long-running budget fight, just as it was looking as if Congress
might finally complete its business and adjourn quietly.

Clinton's veto threat on the Commerce-Justice departments bill focused on the
GOP's failure to overhaul immigration laws as much as Clinton wants.

The president would grant amnesty to all aliens who arrived illegally before
1986. Republicans would ease restrictions for some close relatives of permanent
residents and let others with long-running disputes over their immigration
status go to court.

Besides seeking amnesty, Clinton wants permanent residency for political
refugees from El Salvador, Guatemala, Honduras and Haiti. He also would let some
applicants for permanent residency avoid having to return home to await a final
decision.

Clinton also complained that the bill ignored his plans to pay legal costs of
the government's lawsuit against the cigarette industry and to expand hate crime
protections to cover victims chosen for their sexual orientation.

The tax bill would cut taxes by $ 240 billion over the next 10 years for some
small businesses, people saving for retirement and others, and gradually raise
the $ 5.15 hourly minimum wage by $ 1 by January 2002. It also would erase $ 30
billion in cuts planned for the next five years in Medicare reimbursements for
health maintenance organizations, hospitals and other health care providers.

Clinton said the tax package contained less than he wanted for bonds financing
school construction, breaks for helping people afford health care and long-term
care of relatives, and pension provisions. He also said HMOs would be treated
too generously without being required to remain in Medicare, which some of them
would like to leave. The measure also would provide tax breaks for economically
depressed urban and rural communities and cut taxes for some farmers, fishermen
and adoptive parents.

LOAD-DATE: November 2, 2000

LANGUAGE: English

                  Copyright 2000 St. Louis Post-Dispatch, Inc.


                              57 of 275 DOCUMENTS

                       St. Louis Post-Dispatch (Missouri)

               November 24, 2000, Friday, FIVE STAR LIFT EDITION

BAHRAINI PRINCESS' IMMIGRATION HEARING CAN BE SECRET, JUDGE SAYS

BYLINE: The Associated Press

SECTION: NEWS, Pg. A5

LENGTH: 288 words

DATELINE: SAN DIEGOIMMIGRATION; POLITICAL ASYLUM; HEARINGS


The asylum hearing for a Bahraini princess who used forged documents to enter
the United States can be held in secret, a federal judge ruled.

Two newspapers and two TV stations had sought to gain access to the hearing for
Meriam Al Khalifa, 19, who fled to the United States a year ago to marry an
American Marine.

Al Khalifa applied for political asylum on the grounds that she faces
persecution for marrying a non-Muslim if she returns to Bahrain, a small Persian
Gulf island-state. Her husband, Jason Johnson, requested and was granted an
administrative discharge from the Marines.

Wednesday's decision by U.S. District Judge Rudi Brewster did not elaborate on
the reasons for the secrecy.

It was not entirely unfavorable to the plaintiffs - the San Diego Union-Tribune,
the North (San Diego) County Times and television stations KGTV and KNSD. The
judge released some documents pertaining to Al Khalifa's immigration case and
said the final decision about her asylum status will be made public in a limited
way.

Al Khalifa's attorney, Jan Bejar, welcomed the ruling as protecting his client.

"This is a sensitive case," he said. "There are serious issues of security. My
client has a reason to be fearful."

Johnson, 25, met Al Khalifa last year at a mall in Bahrain, where he was
assigned to a security unit.

As his deployment was ending last year, he forged U.S. military documents that
she used to fly to the United States on a commercial airplane. Immigration
officials in Chicago discovered the ruse.

An immigration judge in July ordered Al Khalifa to face charges of illegally
entering the United States, which could lead to her deportation. Al Khalifa is a
distant relative of Bahrain's ruler.

LOAD-DATE: November 24, 2000

LANGUAGE: English

                  Copyright 2000 St. Louis Post-Dispatch, Inc.


                              58 of 275 DOCUMENTS

                       St. Louis Post-Dispatch (Missouri)

               December 18, 2000, Monday, FIVE STAR LIFT EDITION

A HOLLOW VICTORY

SECTION: EDITORIAL, Pg. C6

LENGTH: 453 words



MATTHEW MORRISON

LAST week, Attorney General Janet Reno revisited the deportation cases of nine
former Irish Republican Army fighters, including Matthew Morrison of University
City. Instead of permanently dropping their cases or ruling in their favor, the
government granted the men "deferred action" status. This means there won't be
any more deportation investigations or hearings for now, but future attorneys
general can reverse the decision at any time.

In the waning days of the Clinton Administration, the decision is more timid
than one might expect. Twenty-five years ago, Northern Ireland was at war and,
like many of his generation, so was Mr. Morrison. He tried to shoot a policeman,
missed and was captured. He was 19 years old and headed to prison for a decade.
When released, he gave up the gun and moved to America. On his visa application,
Mr. Morrison denied his conviction, viewing his actions as political rather than
criminal. However, he revealed his IRA past when he applied for permanent
residency in 1993. The deportation battle began.

Under a strict reading of immigration policies of the time, Mr. Morrison should
not have been allowed into this country. He was a former member of a violent
guerrilla group known to criminally raise money and buy arms in this country. On
paper, he was a foreign criminal, a would-be cop killer -- clearly not someone
U.S. immigration authorities should permit entry.

But if there was ever an immigration case where mercy should outweigh policy,
this was it. Mr. Morrison had an American wife and children. He was an active,
contributing member to his community. He should have been given a reprieve.
Instead, Mr. Morrison and the eight others became political pawns.

Some State Department officials wanted to send them back to Northern Ireland as
a gesture of good faith with England. Other foreign policy experts wanted to let
them stay as an overture to Irish nationalists. And immigration officials wanted
to deport them to show that they won't buckle under political pressure.

Reports suggest that Secretary of State Madeleine Albright and national security
adviser Sandy Berger convinced the White House to suspend the cases. Mr. Clinton
was in Northern Ireland this week trying to jump-start implementation of the
Good Friday accords and the two believed the decision might enhance the
president's credibility.

In terms of statecraft, this makes sense. But for Mr. Morrison and the others,
this should bring little solace. A Bush Administration's foreign policy goals
and strategies may differ and, without a permanent ruling allowing them to
remain in this country, they remain prisoners of the geopolitical zeitgeist.


LOAD-DATE: December 18, 2000

LANGUAGE: English

                  Copyright 2000 St. Louis Post-Dispatch, Inc.


                              59 of 275 DOCUMENTS

                       St. Louis Post-Dispatch (Missouri)

               December 19, 2000, Tuesday, FIVE STAR LIFT EDITION

SECRET EVIDENCE MUST END OR NIGHTMARE NEVER WILL

BYLINE: Mohamed El-BendaryIMMIGRATION AND NATURALIZATION SERVICE; U.S. JUSTICE;
DEPARTMENT GUIDELINES; CLARIFY; FIRST AMENDMENT

SECTION: EDITORIAL, Pg. B15

LENGTH: 686 words



IMMIGRATION

Immigrants' rights overcame a major hurdle last week. After being thrown in jail
for almost four years without trial under a law that allows evidence to remain
secret, Mazen Al-Najjar, a Palestinian and a former professor at the University
of South Florida, was released Friday. An immigration judge ruled on Dec. 11
that Immigration and Naturalization Service officials failed to give him enough
information to defend his case.

Early this year, Arab and Muslim-American groups produced a documentary "Uncivil
Liberties" that focused on his ordeal. Hala Maksoud, president of the
American-Arab Anti-Discrimination Committee, said, "We are delighted and relived
that Mazen Al-Najjar is finally free after so many years of unjust detention.
Secret evidence should never be the basis for putting anyone in jail."

As an immigrant, I sympathize with those -- be they of Arab or non-Arab descent
-- who are being held in prison and deported on the basis of secret evidence.
All Americans should be dismayed by such practice.

The 1996 Anti-Terrorism and Effective Death Penalty Act gave government
officials the freedom to practice selective enforcement of the law in
deportation cases. Under the act, neither immigrants nor their lawyers can
assess or dispute secret evidence employed against them in deportation cases.
The act was further empowered by the 1996 Illegal Immigration Reform and
Immigrant Responsibility Act, which allows INS officials to deport lawful
permanent residents if they are viewed as a "threat" to national security.

The use of secret evidence in deportation cases speaks a language of fear. It
distorts our freedoms and hinders the free flow of information. It unleashes a
powerful attack on immigrants' rights to exchange information freely in matters
essential to their communities and identities in and outside the United States.

Our Constitution, as Justice John Harlan once said, is colorblind and neither
knows not tolerates classes among citizens. Can the democratic ideas embedded in
our Constitution flourish in a system that permits this indiscriminate jailing
of aliens?

Arab and Muslim-Americans support every measure taken by the government to curb
the spread of terrorism. However, I appeal to officials at the U.S. Justice
Department to put forth some guidelines that clarify what First Amendment
activities I can participate in without being incarcerated or deported.

According to the American Civil Liberties Union, almost every case under this
law that has come to public attention involved an Arab or a Muslim. An Algerian,
Anwar Haddam, was released early this month after an immigration tribunal found
that the classified charges against him didn't support the accusation that he
was a terrorist. Haddam had been jailed for four years without trial and went on
a hunger strike on more than one occasion.

If the 2000 presidential election has shown us anything, it is that we must
guard our democracy for it to flourish. The human cost that the use of secret
evidence exacts is too high. In an ethnically diverse nation such as ours, this
discriminatory practice of locking immigrants up without telling them why
shouldn't be tolerated. It shouldn't alarm only the Arab-American community. It
should alarm all Americans.

George Elliot once wrote: "To get an idea of our fellow countrymen's miseries,
we have only to take a look at their pleasures." And Arab Americans have had
little pleasure since the use of secret evidence popped its ugly head four years
ago. They are grateful today to the many groups in the National Coalition to
Protect Political Freedom who worked hard to ensure that justice is served to
them, and that Al-Najjar is finally united with his family.

To deprive someone of liberty without a right of response violates
constitutional rights. As Al-Najjar said following his release, and while
hugging his three daughters with tears in his eyes, let's hope "this is the end
of the nightmare." Congress, please abolish this prejudiced law. It claims to
support justice, but only by exhibiting gross injustice.

LOAD-DATE: December 19, 2000

LANGUAGE: English

NOTES: COMMENTARY Mohamed El-Bendary, Baton Rouge, La., is a free-lance writer.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO Photo by the THE ASSOCIATED PRESS - Mazen Al- Najjar (left) and
his brother-in-law, Sami Al- Arian, talk to reporters outside the Manatee County
Sheriff's Office after Al-Najjar's release Friday in Bradenton, Fla.

                  Copyright 2000 St. Louis Post-Dispatch, Inc.


                              60 of 275 DOCUMENTS

                       St. Louis Post-Dispatch (Missouri)

                  January 12, 2001, Friday, THREE STAR EDITION

CANCELLED FLIGHT TRIPS UP DOCTOR WANTED SINCE 1985 ON MURDER COUNT;
SHE MOVED FROM COUNTRY TO CUNTRY AFTER KILLING PROFESSOR, POLICE SAY

BYLINE: The Associated Press

SECTION: NEWS, Pg. A4

LENGTH: 428 words

DATELINE: TORONTOCOLOR PHOTO; ARREST; MURDER SUSPECT; SHOOTING


A snowstorm that snarled holiday air traffic has helped police capture a doctor
wanted on a 15-year-old murder charge in the United States.

Police say Jacqueline Camille Robinson, 41, has been hopping from country to
country since 1985 to avoid arrest in the shooting death of a Howard University
medical professor.

Robinson had been living in Canada for almost a year. On Dec. 30, her direct
flight from Canada to visit the Bahamas was canceled by the snowstorm, and she
was booked on another flight that stopped in Miami, police and immigration
officials said.

Because the later flight stopped in the United States, Robinson underwent
routine screening by U.S. Customs officials that turned up the murder
indictment, said Anthony Iozzo, a Canadian immigration official.

Robinson made a brief court appearance Thursday to begin what likely will be a
lengthy legal process to determine whether she will be deported, probably to her
native Bahamas, or extradited to the United States. Her lawyers asked for more
time to prepare for a bail hearing. That hearing is now set for Jan. 24.

Since 1985, Robinson has been wanted on a second-degree murder charge for the
shooting death of Henry Lloyd Garvey, who was her medical professor at Howard
University in Washington, D.C.

Robinson and Garvey, an associate professor of pharmacology, were having an
affair when Garvey was shot in the groin at Robinson's apartment in September
1984. Garvey fell into a coma after the shooting and died in February 1985.

Before Garvey's death, Robinson was arrested and convicted of assault, but she
was released on $ 500,000 bond while appealing the conviction and five-year
sentence. When Garvey died five months later, a grand jury indicted Robinson on
more charges, including second-degree murder. Robinson then fled, and police say
she eluded arrest by moving between countries including England, Holland, the
Bahamas and Canada.

Robinson had been studying at the University of Ottawa and working at the
Children's Hospital of Eastern Ontario, which is affiliated with the university.

Garry Cardiff, chief executive officer of the hospital, said Robinson was a
general practice physician in the first year of a four-year internship to become
a pediatric specialist. He said she began her job at the hospital in July under
a student exchange agreement between the University of the West Indies and the
Ottawa university.

The Globe and Mail newspaper reported that Robinson graduated from the medical
school of the University of the West Indies in 1997.

LOAD-DATE: January 12, 2001

LANGUAGE: English

GRAPHIC: PHOTO Color Photo by The Associated Press - Jacqueline Camille
Robinson, 41, is taken to a police car Wednesday in Toronto. She has been a
fugitive since 1985.

                  Copyright 2001 St. Louis Post-Dispatch, Inc.


                              61 of 275 DOCUMENTS

                       St. Louis Post-Dispatch (Missouri)

              February 7, 2001, Wednesday, FIVE STAR LIFT EDITION

DARWIN PORTMAN;
HE SPECIALIZED IN IMMIGRATION LAW

SECTION: METRO, Pg. B6

LENGTH: 214 words


Darwin Portman, an immigration law attorney, died Tuesday (Feb. 6, 2001) after
suffering a heart attack at a restaurant near his office in Clayton. He was 64
and lived in University City.

Mr. Portman, the son of a Russian immigrant, fought hard and often without pay
for immigrants and others caught up in the complexities of U.S. immigration
laws.

Mr. Portman, a St. Louis native, earned his law degree from Washington
University.

He was a former chairman of the immigration law committee of the Bar Association
of Metropolitan St. Louis.

He was a founder of St. Louis Volunteer Lawyers and Accountants for the Arts,
which provided free legal and accounting assistance for artists and arts
organizations.

Mr. Portman was a director of the St. Louis branch of the American Jewish
Congress and a national board member of American Youth Hostels.

He was a founding member of Central Reform Congregation in St. Louis and a
member of the League of Women Voters.

A graveside service will be at 10 a.m. Thursday at Beth Hamedrosh Hagodol
Cemetery in Ladue.

Mr. Portman is survived by his wife, Carol; two sons, Alan Portman of University
City and Bob Portman of Chesterfield; a brother, Eugene Portman of Clayton; a
sister, Ruth Steele of Creve Coeur; and a grandson.

LOAD-DATE: February 7, 2001

LANGUAGE: English

NOTES: ST. LOUIS DEATHS

                  Copyright 2001 St. Louis Post-Dispatch, Inc.


                              62 of 275 DOCUMENTS

                       St. Louis Post-Dispatch (Missouri)

                 February 8, 2001, Thursday, THREE STAR EDITION

DARWIN PORTMAN;
HE SPECIALIZED IN IMMIGRATION LAW

SECTION: METRO, Pg. B4

LENGTH: 220 words


Graveside services for Darwin Portman, an immigration law attorney, will be at
10 a.m. today at Beth Hamedrosh Hagodol Cemetery at Ladue and Price roads in
Ladue.

Mr. Portman died Tuesday (Feb. 6, 2001) after suffering a heart attack at a
restaurant near his office in Clayton. He was 64 and lived in University City.

Mr. Portman, the son of a Russian immigrant, fought hard and often without pay
for immigrants and others caught up in the complexities of U.S. immigration
laws.

Mr. Portman, a St. Louis native, earned his law degree from Washington
University.

He was a former chairman of the immigration law committee of the Bar Association
of Metropolitan St. Louis.

He was a founder of St. Louis Volunteer Lawyers and Accountants for the Arts,
which provided free legal and accounting assistance for artists and arts
organizations.

Mr. Portman was a director of the St. Louis branch of the American Jewish
Congress and a national board member of American Youth Hostels.

He was a founding member of Central Reform Congregation in St. Louis and a
member of the League of Women Voters.

Mr. Portman is survived by his wife, Carol; two sons, Alan Portman of University
City and Bob Portman of Chesterfield; a brother, Eugene Portman of Clayton; a
sister, Ruth Steele of Creve Coeur; and a grandson.

LOAD-DATE: February 8, 2001

LANGUAGE: English

NOTES: ST. LOUIS DEATHS Note: this article appeared in the THREE STAR Edition,
page B4.

                  Copyright 2001 St. Louis Post-Dispatch, Inc.


                              63 of 275 DOCUMENTS

                       St. Louis Post-Dispatch (Missouri)

              February 21, 2001, Wednesday, FIVE STAR LIFT EDITION

SUPREME COURT CLEARS WAY FOR DEPORTATION OF ST. PETERS MAN;
HE HID HIS RECORD AS NAZI CONCENTRATION CAMP GUARD TO BECOME CITIZEN

BYLINE: Deirdre Shesgreen; Post-Dispatch Washington Bureau

SECTION: NEWS, Pg. A1

LENGTH: 656 words

DATELINE: WASHINGTONWAR CRIME; REVOCATION; US CITIZENSHIP; DEPORTATION SUPREME
COURT; DECISION; FORMER NAZI GUARD; CONCENTRATION CAMP; MEMBER; SS GUARD; THIRD
REICH; ST. PETERS, MISSOURI; LOCAL CONNECTION


The U.S. Supreme Court cleared the way Tuesday for deportation proceedings to
begin against Michael Negele, a St. Peters man who hid his record as a Nazi
concentration camp guard to gain U.S. citizenship.

The high court rejected without comment Negele's appeal of a lower court ruling
that revoked his citizenship. The Justice Department is expected to begin
deportation proceedings in the coming weeks against Negele, 80, a retired
aircraft worker.

John Russell, a spokesman for the Justice Department, said attorneys would file
deportation papers "within weeks" in U.S. Immigration Court. The immigration
court that handles St. Louis area cases is based in Chicago.

Russell said it was expected to be a lengthy process, in which Negele has
several appeals, including another one to the Supreme Court. "We're talking
about months before he ever leaves," Russell said.

Negele's attorney, Warren Hoff, did not return a call for comment.

Negele was a Waffen SS guard at two Nazi concentration camps in World War II. He
came to the United States in 1950 under a visa and became a naturalized citizen
in St. Louis in 1955.

In 1999, a federal judge in St. Louis ruled that Negele had obtained his
citizenship illegally because he failed to tell authorities about his role in
the war as a Nazi concentration camp guard.

In his trial, Negele denied misleading immigration officials. He testified that
when he sought a visa, he told officials he had served in the Romanian and
German armies from 1942 until 1945. He said the officials never asked him the
details of his service.

But U.S. District Judge Richard Webber agreed with Justice Department attorneys,
who argued that Negele concealed his service as a concentration camp guard.

Negele, an ethnic German who was born in Romania, testified that he was drafted
into the Romanian army in 1942. He said he was later drafted into t he German
army and assigned to the Death's Head Battalion of the Waffen SS.

The Germans first assigned Negele to serve as a guard in a labor camp for Jews
near Berlin, where he learned to handle a guard dog. In 1944, he was transferred
to Theresienstadt, an internment camp in Nazi-occupied Czechoslovakia.

Russell, the Justice Department spokesman, said that if the immigration
proceedings go forward, Negele would most likely be sent back to Romania. He
said Negele's age won't deter authorities from seeking his expulsion.

Police case is declined

Also on Tuesday, the Supreme Court declined to review a case involving a St.
Louis County police detective who accidentally shot and killed his partner in a
drug bust.

In 1997, the detective, Carl Peterson, shot his partner, Willie Neal Jr., by
accident when he was returning fire from a drug suspect. Jennifer Neal, the wife
of the slain detective, sued Peterson and the St. Louis County Board of Police
Commissioners, alleging "deliberate indifference or recklessness."

The Supreme Court's decision Tuesday, made without comment, leaves in place a
ruling by the 8th U.S. Circuit Court of Appeals that rejected Neal's attempts to
hold Peterson liable for her husband's death.

The lower court said the detective could only be held liable if he had intended
to harm his partner.

The court also declined to hear appeals from several Illinois and Missouri
inmates.

The court rejected without comment appeals from:

* Tafford Holman, who was sentenced to die in Illinois for the murder in 1980 of
a Joliet man.

* Jerome Mallett, who is on death row in Missouri for the murder in 1985 of a
Missouri Highway Patrol officer along Interstate 55 in Perry County.

* Andre Morrow, who is on death row for fatally shooting a man during a
carjacking in 1994 in the parking lot of the Mid-County YMCA in Brentwood.

* James Dunn, a Missouri inmate who was sentenced to two consecutive life
sentences in the fatal shooting in 1996 of Larry Pearson in Maplewood.

LOAD-DATE: February 21, 2001

LANGUAGE: English

NOTES: Reporter Deirdre Shesgreen: E-mail: dshesgreen@post-dispatch.com Phone:
202-298-6880

                  Copyright 2001 St. Louis Post-Dispatch, Inc.


                              64 of 275 DOCUMENTS

                       St. Louis Post-Dispatch (Missouri)

                   April 29, 2001, Sunday, THREE STAR EDITION

WOMAN WHOSE DAUGHTER DIED FACES DEPORTATION TO CHINA;
ALTHOUGH OFFICIALS ARE SYMPATHETIC, THEY SAY SHE HAS NO LEGAL SPONSOR

BYLINE: The Associated Press

SECTION: NEWS, Pg. A15

LENGTH: 238 words

DATELINE: SAN FRANCISCOIMMIGRATION STATUS; RESIDENCY; DEPORTATION


A Chinese woman helping rear her grandchildren will be forced to leave the
United States because her daughter died shortly before the woman's residency
hearing.

Zhenfu Ge, 73, has lived in the San Francisco area since 1998, helping care for
her 3-year-old granddaughter and 9-year-old grandson. Her daughter, Yanyu Wang,
filed that year to sponsor Ge's green card status leading to permanent U.S.
residency.

Wang died April 15 of lymphoma. At Ge's residency hearing Thursday, the
Immigration and Naturalization Service said that without a sponsor, she must
leave the United States.

"It's very hard for me to leave them here," Ge said. "I just don't understand
why it has to be so strict."

The law says Ge cannot stay, Immigration and Naturalization Service spokeswoman
Sharon Rummery said.

"Your heart goes out, you know," she said. "It's unfortunate, but it happens."

If Ge does not leave, she will be deported to China.

Appealing the order would only postpone her departure temporarily, because
immigration lawyers who have reviewed the case agree she has no legal grounds to
stay.

Wang's husband, John Mark, cannot take over the application because he is not a
blood relative. He said he has asked federal lawmakers to shepherd legislation
specifically allowing Ge to get a green card.

"They even said that if my wife was alive, (Ge's green card) would have been
approved," Mark said.

LOAD-DATE: April 29, 2001

LANGUAGE: English

NOTES: A shorter version of this article ran in the EARLY FIVE STAR edition,
without the photo, on page A4.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO Photo headshot - (Yanyu) Wang, Died of lymphoma

                  Copyright 2001 St. Louis Post-Dispatch, Inc.


                              65 of 275 DOCUMENTS

                       St. Louis Post-Dispatch (Missouri)

                   June 21, 2001 Thursday Three Star Edition

GOVERNMENT DROPS EFFORT TO DEPORT CHILDREN OF SLAIN NIGERIAN WOMAN

BYLINE: The Associated Press

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. A5

LENGTH: 200 words

DATELINE: DETROIT


The federal government has abandoned efforts to deport the children of a
murdered Nigerian woman who were brought into this country by an uncle who
feared for their lives.

"They are free to stay," the children's lawyer, Rickie Emmanuel Ibe, said
Wednesday. "The family is so excited."

Terlumun Iortyer, 5, and his sister Doofanter, 3, were brought to the United
States by Martin Nyamor, a resident alien, after their mother's funeral. She was
shot execution-style in the family's southeastern Nigeria home in 1998.

The government had contended Nyamor brought the children into the country
illegally. In January, an immigration judge suggested the case be dropped, and
in a letter to the family Tuesday, the Immigration and Naturalization Service
agreed.

The immigration agency granted the children a 2-year renewable parole and
cleared the way for Nyamor and his wife to adopt them.

The mother's killers were never caught. Nyamor has said she was slain by members
of a tribe seeking revenge against the children's grandfather, the leader of a
rival tribe.

He has also said the children's father, wounded by the gunmen, approved taking
them from Nigeria, which has endured years of unrest.

LOAD-DATE: June 21, 2001

LANGUAGE: English

NOTES: A shorter version of this article ran in the FIVE STAR LIFT, page A10.

                  Copyright 2001 St. Louis Post-Dispatch, Inc.


                              66 of 275 DOCUMENTS

                       St. Louis Post-Dispatch (Missouri)

                     July 8, 2001 Sunday Five Star Edition

CUBAN DETAINEES IN ILLINOIS FIND HOPE FOR THEIR EVENTUAL FREEDOM;
 SUPREME COURT RULING ON INDEFINITE LOCKUPS COULD LEAD TO RELEASE

BYLINE: Heather Ratcliffe Of The Post-Dispatch

SECTION: METRO; Pg. C7

LENGTH: 542 words


Twenty Cubans being held indefinitely at a federal prison in Greenville, Ill.,
have found new hope for their eventual release.

Their optimism comes from a recent U.S. Supreme Court ruling that says the
government may not indefinitely detain immigrants who were ordered to be
deported to countries that won't take them back.

"Everybody is excited," said Miguel Alejo-Tang, a Cuban in the Federal
Correctional Institution in Greenville. "That's all I have left - a little hope
- that these people will let me out of here."

The 20 Cubans at Greenville are among about 3,000 being held nationwide for
similar reasons.

Advocates say many immigrants may be released from federal custody because of
the Supreme Court ruling.

Alejo-Tang is what immigration officials call an indefinite detainee. Because of
his violent criminal history in the United States, the government doesn't want
him here. But Cuba won't take him back.

So the Immigration and Naturalization Service has imprisoned him indefinitely.

In a 5-4 decision June 28, the Supreme Court ruled that the INS must release
legal residents who have served their sentences unless it presents special
reasons to detain an immigrant.

Writing for the majority, Justice Stephen Breyer said: "Freedom from imp
risonment - from government custody, detention or other forms of physical
restraint - lies at the heart of the liberty that (the Constitution) protects."

INS officials had argued that the agency is permitted to indefinitely imprison
immigrants under laws enacted by Congress in 1996.

"The ruling casts doubts on all sorts of INS detention practices and gives hope
to thousands of immigrants and legal residents," said Judy Rabinovitz of New
York, a lawyer with the American Civil Liberties Union's Immigrants' Rights
Project.

INS officials won't comment about the ruling except to say they are reviewing
the decision and will comply.

Alejo-Tang's case is further complicated because he came to this country in the
Mariel boatlift of 1980, when Cuban leader Fidel Castro emptied his prisons and
sent criminals and mentally ill people to the United States. Nearly 120,000 set
sail for America in rickety boats at the port of Mariel.

American officials agreed to take in the refugees but never officially
recognized the Mariel Cubans as legal residents. Under the law, these immigrants
are still being "held at the border."

Under those circumstances, the court's decision doesn't cover the Mariel Cubans
because they are not officially in this country, said Grant J . Shostak of
Clayton, a lawyer who represents Alejo-Tang.

Alejo-Tang, 41, said he was never imprisoned in Cuba and never committed crimes
there. He said he got into the Mariel boatlift surreptitiously because he wanted
to come to America.

But since he arrived here, he has been convicted of stealing a car, burglary,
selling drugs, attempted murder, hitting a law enforcement officer and escape.

Alejo-Tang served a 13-year prison sentence in Florida. He and the other Cubans
were sent to Greenville by the INS.

Alejo-Tang and other Mariel Cubans could file another suit in light of the
Supreme Court's ruling.

"I think I'm on my way out," Alejo-Tang said. "With this ruling, we have action
to go into court."

LOAD-DATE: July 18, 2001

LANGUAGE: English

NOTES: Reporter Heather Ratcliffe:; E-mail: hratcliffe@post-dispatch.com; Phone:
618-659-3637

GRAPHIC: PHOTO; Photo not Available tms; (NOTE: The following photo appeared in
the Three Star edition only:); Color Photo headshot - Alego-Tang - "I think I'm
on my way out."

TYPE: PROFILE; MARIEL BOATLIFT CUBANS

                  Copyright 2001 St. Louis Post-Dispatch, Inc.


                              67 of 275 DOCUMENTS

                       St. Louis Post-Dispatch (Missouri)

               September 20, 2001 Thursday Five Star Lift Edition

EXPELLING IMMIGRANTS ...

SECTION: EDITORIAL; Pg. B6

LENGTH: 462 words


RIGHTS

ATTORNEY GENERAL John D. Ashcroft has gone too far in threatening to deport
legal immigrants without giving them a chance to prove their innocence in court
against suspicions of terrorism.

A bill that Mr. Ashcroft sent to Congress on Wednesday would allow the attorney
general to use administrative procedures to deport an alien who "may further
acts of terrorism." A suspect couldn't get a hearing before a judge even if he
had a green card, had lived in the United States for decades and had plenty of
evidence of innocence.

Stephen Legomsky, an expert on immigration law at Washington University, thinks
it would be unfair to use administrative procedures to deport lawful permanent
residents. "They are so much like U.S. citizens," he said. "Many have lived here
since they were small children, but could be sent back under procedures that are
not reliable."

Under the Ashcroft proposal, a law-abiding resident with a green card could be
locked up and then deported for giving money to a Hamas fund-raising project,
like schools and medical clinics, if Mr. Ashcroft thought the resident should
have known the money went to help terrorism.

Mr. Ashcroft says he wants Congress to pass his proposals this week, in light of
the involvement of some foreign residents in last week's deadly terrorist
attack. But the attorney general already has ample power to lock up an alien
involved in terrorism. Congress doesn't need to rush the new proposal into law.

Mr. Ashcroft is also proposing to make it easier to wiretap suspected
terrorists. He maintains that the FBI has to get a new warrant every time the
terrorist moves switches phones, but doesn't have to do that when an organized
crime figure switches phones.

But Mr. Ashcroft overstates the problem. Congress passed a law in 1998 that gave
agents the power to obtain "roving" wiretaps in a broad range of cases.
Terrorism is not specifically mentioned, but nearly every conceivable act of
terrorism is, including blowing up airplanes and buildings. The problem with Mr.
Ashcroft's proposal to expand wiretap authority is that it would create a false
sense of security.

The disturbing truth is that the FBI reportedly had the names of two of the
terrorists involved in last week's attack, but did not find the two men in time.
Obtaining roving wiretaps for the men wouldn't help without knowing where they
were. In reality, the FBI and other intelligence agencies are more in need of
additional agents who speak Arabic languages than they are a change in wiretap
authority.

Congress may eventually conclude that Mr. Ashcroft needs broader authority to
combat terrorism. But it should first scrutinize his proposal to make certain
that offers real security without cutting back on basic rights.

LOAD-DATE: September 20, 2001

LANGUAGE: English

TYPE: EDITORIAL

                  Copyright 2001 St. Louis Post-Dispatch, Inc.


                              68 of 275 DOCUMENTS

                       St. Louis Post-Dispatch (Missouri)

              September 26, 2001 Wednesday Five Star Lift Edition

WE MUST CONTROL OUR BORDERS ...

BYLINE: Gene McNary

SECTION: EDITORIAL; Commentary Column; Pg. B7

LENGTH: 750 words


AMERICA'S WAR ON TERRORISM - IMMIGRATION

The events of Sept. 11 have shaken confidence in U.S. internal security. To
achieve internal security, major restructuring of the organization, relationship
and coordination of all law enforcement agencies will be required. Federal,
state and local agencies must cooperate and be linked with compatible
information systems. Questions of national identification cards, wiretaps and
other techniques that were heretofore rejected as repugnant to our liberties
should be revisited.

Looking just at border control, I'd like to point out four areas of reform:

One Agency. For decades we have talked about consolidating and reorganizing
agencies that are involved with border control, yet four separate departments
still have various roles in this effort. The Immigration and Naturalization
Service is charged with inspections at ports of entry. Before visitors get to
the port of entry, they must obtain a visa from the consul at the U.S. Embassy
in the foreign country. Of course, some countries such as the United Kingdom and
Japan have reciprocal visa waiver programs in place with the United States, and
for nationals of those countries a visa is not required. INS is part of the
Justice Department, while Consular Affairs is under the State Department. Goods
shipped to the U.S. are checked by Customs, which is under the Treasury
Department. Customs is well funded and equipped, and has a fleet of helicopters
that dwarfs the air capability of the INS, which has the primary responsibility
for border control between the ports of entry. The Coast Guard and FAA are both
under the Transportation Department and have very loose arrangements with the
other border agencies.

To facilitate the immigration responsibilities of the new Homeland Security
Agency, sweeping measures are needed that would bring all of the various
functions under a single border control agency. This new agency should be
responsible for visa processing abroad, inspections at ports of entry and
prevention of illegal entry between U.S. ports.

Overseas Investigation. State, INS and other investigators at the embassies
should be reorganized and made a part of the border control agency, with
representation from CIA and military operations. In addition, there must be an
in-depth review of U.S.-Canadian immigration policies. Our friends to the north
should join with us for our common good to tighten and improve border security.

Replace Immigration Document. We must facilitate travel to and from the United
States if we are to participate in a global economy. Nonimmigrant visas (e.g.
specialty workers, students, multi-national managers) can be issued and
technological advancements incorporated, such as iris identification, hand scans
or fingerprint comparisons. The immigration documents we now use can be readily
forged or counterfeited. Instead, for example, when the visitor obtains a visa,
the process would include obtaining an iris print that would be sent to the U.S.
port of entry. A device could then be pointed at passengers in cars or those
getting off planes and ships to verify identity. As a part of this process,
expanded background and record checks should be required and an extensive
database maintained to screen potential entrants to the U.S.

Seal the Border. While it will take several billion dollars to seal our borders,
the expenditure is necessary. To secure our northern and southern borders,
sensors and lights must be installed and aircraft and watergoing vessels
acquired to monitor entry. The gulches in the 12-mile stretch between San Diego
and Tijuana, for example, provide cover for thousands of illegal entries. Earth
moving equipment is needed to even out the terrain and eliminate the hiding
places and risks to our border patrol.

The threat of terrorism and our determination to defeat it compel us to take
actions that as a peace-loving nation we have hesitated to take in the past.
This new kind of warfare will make us vulnerable if we fail to take bold
measures that will prepare us to avoid or confront the next terrorist attack.
This important effort may tread on our civil liberties, but through
reorganization of agencies, implementation of technology in controlling entry to
and exit from the U.S., the deployment of trained personnel and installation of
border improvements between the ports of entry, the restraints on our personal
freedom can be kept to a minimum. Our nation must act quickly and with resolve.

LOAD-DATE: September 26, 2001

LANGUAGE: English

NOTES: AMERICA'S WAR ON TERRORISM; Gene McNary, Ladue, is a lawyer who headed
the Immigration and Nationalization Service from 1989-1993.

GRAPHIC: GRAPHIC; Graphic/Illustration by JOHN KRAUSE - (immigration)

TYPE: PROFILE; TERRORIST ATTACK ON THE U.S.; AMERICA RESPONDS; BORDER CONTROL

                  Copyright 2001 St. Louis Post-Dispatch, Inc.


                              69 of 275 DOCUMENTS

                       St. Louis Post-Dispatch (Missouri)

               September 27, 2001 Thursday Five Star Lift Edition

FOREIGN VISITORS CAN EXPECT HEIGHTENED SCRUTINY OF PAPERS;
 FOCUS WILL PROBABLY SHIFT TO VISA VIOLATIONS

BYLINE: Karen Branch-Brioso Post-Dispatch Washington Bureau

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. A1

LENGTH: 1405 words

DATELINE: WASHINGTON


CRACKDOWN ON VISAS

Opposition to strict tracking of foreign visitors to the United States is giving
way since the Sept. 11 terrorist attacks in New York and Washington.

The most immediate reaction will likely be computerized tracking of foreign
students at U.S. schools and efforts to keep tabs on all non-citizens here, even
when they leave the country. Congress passed laws to do both five years ago. But
enforcement of the laws has been delayed by intensive lobbying efforts from
educators and border business interests.

"It's fair to say that Sept. 11 pretty much ended the debate," said Doris
Meissner, former Immigration and Naturalization Service commissioner.

The proof is in a Sept. 20 statement from the Association of International
Educators, the most vocal opponent of requiring foreign students to report their
whereabouts and study plans while in the United States: "The time for debate on
this matter is over, and the time to devise a considered response to terrorism
has arrived."

Victor Johnson, the group's policy director, said the association still strongly
believes it's wrong to single out foreign students -- who represent 567,000 of
the more than 30 million visitors to the United States each year: "But the
chances of successfully opposing the implementation are zero now."

Immigration experts believe that new fears of foreign terrorist threats will
prompt stricter controls in the United States, where past policies have focused
more on scrutiny of visitors who enter and far less on when they leave and their
whereabouts while they're here. Crackdowns rarely occur unless foreign visitors
commit crimes. Visa violations, however, have gone largely ignored.

"The tendency was to ignore interior enforcement and focus instead on
deportation of criminal aliens," said Susan Forbes Martin, director of
Georgetown University's Institute for the Study of International Migration.
"There was a tendency to ignore those who were overstaying their visas for work
purposes. The same loopholes that exist in U.S. immigration policy are the
loopholes that terrorists can easily walk through."

Sen. Christopher "Kit" Bond, R-Mo., is among those members of Congress who
believe it's time for stricter enforcement. He'll launch a statewide tour of
immigration offices today to seek input for a bill he plans to file next week
that would require:

* A 30-day waiting period for all visa applicants to ensure that U.S. consular
officers abroad have time for proper background checks.

* New high-tech visas with bar codes to identify the bearer by either a
fingerprint or facial screening.

* Full funding for the computerized entry-and-exit visa system to track those
who overstay their visas.

Citing that "several" of the suspected Sept. 11 hijackers had overstayed student
or tourist visas, Bond said it is "intolerable" that "right now we have no
ability to identify, locate or remove foreigners who deliberately remain in this
country long after their tourist or student visas expire."

The entry-and-exit system he wants to fund is one that Congress put in place in
1996 as part of a larger crackdown on illegal immigration. That system has been
implemented, in part, by a handful of airports that send computerized lists of
passengers to immigration officials. But border business interests that depend
on efficient movement of people and goods through checkpoints were successful at
delaying the plan.

As the law stands now, it won't be fully in effect until the end of 2005.

But the events of Sept. 11 are expected to speed that transition.

"It was going to be phased in over a number of years, but I think the events of
the last couple weeks have superseded that, and there will be an effort to
implement (it) sooner," said Rep. Lamar Smith, R-Tex., a longtime champion of
the system. "It means, inevitably, we won't be in a position of waving strangers
across the border without stopping them."

Miguel Conchas, president of the Laredo Chamber of Commerce, said the crackdown
has already started at the city's four border crossings with Mexico. Since Sept.
11, U.S. immigration officials have been taking more time to screen traffic -
and once minutes-long waits have stretched to hours.

"If you're going to delay everybody crossing even by one minute, that,
multiplied by thousands, is a nightmare, and usually our businesses would be
screaming bloody murder," Conchas said.

But he says he has heard few complaints about the bottlenecks. "Right now, we
support anything the country can do to create security and safety for everyone,"
he said.

Conchas said opposition has given way to inevitability. The chamber, he said,
will instead focus its lobbying efforts on getting faster visa technology to
avoid congestion at the border crossings.

Gene McNary, the St. Louis lawyer who served as chief of the I mmigration and
Naturalization Service from 1988 to 1993, believes that past political obstacles
to the changes have indeed given way in light of recent events.

"Border control has never been an essential function of the federal government.
We didn't want to ruffle the feathers of the Mexicans. The State Department was
so determined to exercise diplomacy," McNary said. "The time has come to say
diplomacy be damned."

He expects a beef-up of State Department rules on issuing visas and
much-improved technology and budgets for screening applicants. Until now, McNary
said, the main role for visa officers has been to check that the applicants have
sufficient ties and finances in their home country to ensure that they would
return after visiting the United States.

"Well, most terrorists are well-off, and they're going to be able to show that
stuff and, if not, they'll come up with phony documents," McNary said. "I think
the time has come to use the technology to make sure we're secure."

Sen. Edward Kennedy, D-Mass., who chairs the Senate committee overseeing
immigration, has introduced a bill to give consular agents access to FBI
criminal databases for their background checks of visa applicants.

Meissner, the INS director during President Bill Clinton's administration,
believes that the most effective anti-terrorist measures should be in screening
visa applicants - not foreign visitors already on U.S. soil. She noted that the
State Department assigns "the most junior officers" to screen applicants.

Consular officials already compare visa applicants' names and dates of birth
with a database of "millions of names of people refused visas, deportees,
criminals, drug suspects, human rights violators and suspected terrorists,"
Meissner said. "As sound and as good as these screening devices have been,
they're only as good as the names in the system. That brings us to intelligence.
The immigration issues are critical - but they are by no means adequate as being
a frontline response to terrorism."

Johnson, of the Association of International Educators, believes that
immigration approaches - like tracking the whereabouts of foreign students - are
a questionable solution.

"I don't care what kind of monitoring and tracking system you set up for foreign
students, as long as it's the case that 99 percent of the people who come here
on temporary visas come on visas other than student visas, you have accomplished
nothing as far as anti-terrorism," he said. "If you just apply it to one group
of people, that's not a serious anti-terrorism strategy, that's just for show."

But since one suspected hijacker was in the United States on a student visa -
and never showed up at the school - educators see the tracking system as
inevitable.

===

Immigration laws

Immigration laws passed by Congress in 1996 have yet to be put into effect.

One law would collect the following information on foreign students:

* Identity and current U.S. address.

* Date student visa was issued.

* Academic status (e.g., full-time or exchange).

* Disciplinary action taken by the educational institution against the student.

Another would require the government to establish a computerized system to track
a foreign visitor's date of arrival and date of departure. The deadlines for
putting the program in place have been extended to:

* Dec. 31, 2003, for airports and seaports.

* Dec. 31, 2004, for the 50 land border ports of entry serving the highest
numbers of arriving and departing aliens.

* Dec. 31, 2005, for all ports of entry into the United States.

LOAD-DATE: September 27, 2001

LANGUAGE: English

NOTES: AMERICA RESPONDS

                  Copyright 2001 St. Louis Post-Dispatch, Inc.


                              70 of 275 DOCUMENTS

                       St. Louis Post-Dispatch (Missouri)

                October 4, 2001 Thursday Five Star Lift Edition

A GUIDE TO THE COVERAGE

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. A2

LENGTH: 454 words


Below is a brief look at some of the stories inside today's Post-Dispatch
related to the terrorist attacks of Sept. 11.

PAGE A4

Powell says Afghan mission would just be first phase

Secretary of State Colin Powell says any attack in Afghanistan on the al-Qaida
terrorism network would be only the first step in the U.S. campaign against
terrorism.

PAGE A5

U.S. gets down to details of what it wants from NATO

The United States asked its NATO allies to make specific contributions to the
fight against terrorism, including military support.

PAGE A6

Missouri secretary of state is set to report for duty

When Secretary of State Matt Blunt reports for duty Tuesday, he will become
Missouri's first statewide official ever to hold office while also serving in
the military.

PAGE A7

Plan to federalize airport security causes Senate split

A sweeping airport security bill stalled in the Senate after the White House
objected to making all airport security workers federal employees.

PAGE A8

Joblessness in a recession isn't expected to be high here

If a recession hits the United States, the average St. Louisan isn't expected to
notice it through unemployment.

The Immigration and Naturalization Service has temporarily frozen immigration
applications and visa petitions from those living in the United States while it
conducts a national audit of applicants.

PAGE A9

Officials detail reported links between hijackers, bin Laden

The U.S. government has gathered evidence that links some of the Sept. 11
hijackers to Osama bin Laden's network through phone intercepts, wire transfers
and participation in training camps, officials said.

PAGE B2

Missouri official will head national task force

Henry Hungerbeeler, Missouri's transportation director, will lead a task force
that will assess terrorist threats to the nation's transportation system.
Hungerbeeler will lead the American Association of State Highway and
Transportation Officials' Task Force on Transportation Security.

PAGE C1

Local employers appear to be keeping lid on backlash

Few reports have surfaced here of harassment in the workplace of Muslims or
people of Middle Eastern descent since the terrorist attacks Sept. 11.

Southwest Airlines says its planes were a little more than half-full last month
after the terrorist attacks.

==========

DEAD AND MISSING

ON FOUR HIJACKED AIRPLANES

246 passengers and crew

19 hijackers

AT THE WORLD TRADE CENTER

4,986 reported missing, including passengers and crew of two planes

369 confirmed dead

AT THE PENTAGON

125 believed killed.

A CLOSER LOOK

THE WEAPON: Hijackers in the Sept. 11 terrorist attacks took control of four
commercial aircraft while armed with box cutters.

LOAD-DATE: October 4, 2001

LANGUAGE: English

NOTES: AMERICA RESPONDS

GRAPHIC: PHOTO, MAP; (1) Map - AFGHANISTAN AND SURROUNDING TERRITORY;
Afghanistan is a vast country swept by deserts, mountains and a terrain so harsh
that arable land often stretches no more than a few feet on each side of a
riverbed. (Map shows Main Taliban military bases, Smaller Taliban garrisons,
Taliban training camps and Refugee camps.); The Northern Alliance operate in
pocket within this area; Areas controlled by the Northern Alliance.; Source:
Jane's; United Nations High Commissioner for Refugees; CIA; (2) Photo - THE
WEAPON: Hijackers in the Sept. 11 terrorist attacks took control of four
commercial aircraft while armed with box cutters.

                  Copyright 2001 St. Louis Post-Dispatch, Inc.


                              71 of 275 DOCUMENTS

                       St. Louis Post-Dispatch (Missouri)

                 October 22, 2001 Monday Five Star Lift Edition

MIDDLE EASTERN MEN ARRESTED HERE REMAIN IN JAIL IN INQUIRIES;
 CRITICS SAY COURT RIGHTS ARE BEING CURTAILED

BYLINE: Phillip O'Connor Of The Post-Dispatch

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. A1

LENGTH: 1434 words


Federal agents detained Osama El Far on Sept. 24 after a fellow mechanic at the
commuter airline at Lambert Field where he worked reported him to authorities.

Agents took Ibrahim Bayoumi into custody on Oct. 7 at Lambert Field after he
left a van parked in front of a passenger terminal.

Agents apprehended Khaled Alolaiwi on the afternoon of Oct. 10 at his apartment
in St. Louis. He doesn't know how they found him.

All three men admit they were in the country illegally, staying longer than
their visas allowed, their attorneys say.

And they acknowledge they held jobs in violation of immigration laws. But under
normal circumstances, immigration attorneys say, all three might have been held
a few hours and then posted bail.

Those who agreed to depart voluntarily could have had a month or two to wrap up
personal matters and then leave the United States on their own.

No more.

The limited rights given to defendants in immigration court are vanishing in the
wake of the terrorist attacks Sept. 11, immigration lawyers say.

They say it's harder to get access to detained clients - or even find out what
charges they face, especially for people of Middle Eastern descent.

"We've got to protect our country and find out who the bad guys are, but we
don't do that by abandoning our Bill of Rights to walk all over people of Middle
Eastern descent or the Islamic religion," said Justin Meehan, a lawyer
volunteering for the Islamic Center of Greater St. Louis to ensure that the
civil rights of detained people are not violated.

Federal immigration officials cite national security.

Authorities nationwide have taken about 700 people into custody since Sept. 11
as part of the investigation into the terrorist attacks, including at least one
of the men arrested here, court records show. No one will say whether any of the
others taken into custody locally are being held in connection with the
investigation or other, unrelated violations.

"I think it's clear that some immigration attorneys have not yet faced the
reality of what happened on Sept. 11," said Russ Bergeron, a spokesman in
Washington for the Immigration and Naturalization Service. "This is a
fast-moving, evolving investigation into the most serious criminal act ever
perpetrated on the American people. To criticize the Immigration Service and the
federal government for moving carefully and cautiously before we release on bond
an individual arrested in connection with this investigation is a very limited
view which clearly is not shared by the vast majority of the American people.

"Things are different now."

Investigators come calling

The Immigration and Naturalization Service and the immigration courts are acting
within their authority. Decisions to set bail on any of the 20,000 people in INS
custody on a given day are made on a case-by-case basis, based on whether the
person might be a flight risk or a threat to the public or to national security,
Bergeron said.

A combination of federal laws and legal precedent also allows authorities to
detain witnesses, seal search warrants and close hearings on national security
grounds.

All three men detained here emphatically deny any connection to the attacks
Sept. 11. All three have cooperated with investigators, their lawyers say, and
all three remain jailed without bail.

Freedom for the three probably won't come until they are escorted aboard an
overseas flight, their lawyers say.

El Far, 30, entered the United States from Egypt on a student visa in 1996 to
attend Embry-Riddle Aeronautical University in Florida. He quit school at the
end of 1997 because money was running short and went to work for Trans States
Airline at Lambert in January 1998.

Near the end of his overnight shift on Sept. 24, three men arrived and
identified themselves as federal agents.

El Far said he had been expecting them. An Egyptian friend working at O 'Hare
International Airport in Chicago had called El Far just days before to tell him
about receiving such a visit. His friend said the agents in Chicago told him
they were interviewing Middle Easterners and Muslims with access to airports.
His lawyer, Dorothy Harper, agreed that El Far's background made him a likely
target for investigators. Several of the suspected hijackers of Sept. 11 had
overstayed student or tourist visas and trained as pilots.

"There are all these kinds of bells and whistles as one FBI agent called them,"
Harper said.

El Far said the agents quizzed him for 90 minutes about how he got his job, his
opinion of the Persian Gulf War and Osama bin Laden and his organization.

They told him they were investigating a comment he'd allegedly made to a
co-worker that he considered bin Laden a role model.

"I said, I never said that," El Far said last week in a telephone interview from
the Mississippi County Jail in the Bootheel.

El Far said he invited the agents to his University City apartment and consented
to a search. His father, here on a visit, offered the guests refreshments, which
they refused.

For two more hours, the agents asked him about his activities, his acquaintances
and his time in Florida. They asked whether he had been approached to join any
organization because of his airport access.

They examined his phone bills and took his address book. They later seized his
computer.

Authorities initially held El Far in a cell in the Jennings jail but moved him
after his lawyer complained El Far was being harassed by guards and fellow
inmates and feared for his safety.

El Far took a lie detector test conducted by the FBI, believing it would help
him win his release, Harper said. Meehan said an FBI official assured him after
the test that El Far no longer was a suspect.

But an INS attorney last week objected to El Far's bail request, saying the
agency had no word from Washington that he no longer was a target of the
investigation, Meehan said.

FBI and INS officials in St. Louis declined to comment.

"I feel like it's kind of abuse, discrimination against me," El Far said. "Even
if they told me I could stay, I don't feel I could because I've been mistreated.
Everybody overseas knows America as the land of freedom and justice. Now I don't
believe it."

"I didn't do anything wrong"

Bayoumi, 28, entered the United States through New York on July 5 of last year
on a businessman's visa. He was authorized an initial stay of 90 days. After
living briefly in North Carolina, the Egyptian native moved to St. Louis, where
he became reacquainted with a cousin who had moved to the area about 20 years
ago. They spent August and September of that first year visiting areas such as
Atlantic City and New York. They returned to the St. Louis area, where Bayoumi
helped his cousin operate a convenience store in Alton.

"I don't make any problems here," Bayoumi said. "I like America."

On Oct. 7, he drove another Egyptian friend to Lambert to get a refund for a
ticket.

The two parked their white van near the TWA curbside check-in, "quickly exited
the vehicle and ran inside the terminal," according to a court document.

A concerned citizen notified police. When the men returned to the van, they were
questioned. His friend, who had proper documentation, was released.

But Bayoumi found himself in a small room at the airport answering questions
from agents from the FBI and the INS.

"I answer all their questions," Bayoumi said. "Where you from? What you doing
here? What you think about Sept. 11? I said, 'No, no relation.'"

Both of Bayoumi's first two bail hearings were postponed. Another is set for
Wednesday.

He is being held in the Jennings jail, where he said he is well-treated.

"I'm not scared, because I didn't do anything wrong. I just stayed without
paper," Bayoumi said in a telephone interview last week. "I don't know why
everything go like that for me. If I have to go to my country, I go. I have no
problem. But I want to sell my things here and finish up things here."

Alolaiwi, of Saudi Arabia, is being held in the Mississippi County Jail but
could not be reached for comment.

El Far said Alolaiwi told him that he entered the United States in 1989 on a
student visa. He eventually left school and began working construction. In
recent years, El Far said, Alolaiwi did home repair work for Bosnian immigrants
here.

"I'm trying to have some faith and trust in this system," said Harper, who also
represents Alolaiwi. "I'm trying not to get paranoid over this whole thing, but
it's getting increasingly hard. I truly think if my client s were not Muslim,
they would not be detained as long as they have been."

LOAD-DATE: October 30, 2001

LANGUAGE: English

NOTES: AMERICA RESPONDS; Reporter Phillip O'Connor: E-mail:
poconnor@post-dispatch.com Phone: 314-340-8321

GRAPHIC: PHOTO, MAP; (1) Color Photo headshots; El Far; Arrested after co-worker
alerted authorities; Bayoumi; Arrested while visiting Lambert Field; (2) Map by
POST-DISPATCH - MISSISSIPPI COUNTY; (Map of Missouri with Mississippi County
highlighted)

                  Copyright 2001 St. Louis Post-Dispatch, Inc.


                              72 of 275 DOCUMENTS

                       St. Louis Post-Dispatch (Missouri)

                October 25, 2001 Thursday Five Star Lift Edition

DETENTION CONTINUES FOR SEVERAL FROM MIDDLE EAST;
 GOVERNMENT SAYS 2 MEN ARE OF "NATIONAL INTEREST"

BYLINE: Phillip O'Connor Of The Post-Dispatch

SECTION: METRO; Pg. C1

LENGTH: 934 words


Several Middle Eastern men detained in the St. Louis area after the Sept. 11
terrorist attacks remain in custody after appearing Wednesday at closed-door
immigration court hearings in St. Louis. Government lawyers argued Wednesday
that two of the men should remain in custody because they are considered of
"national interest."

A judge granted a government request to postpone a hearing for Khaled Alolaiwi
until next week. In making the request, a lawyer for the Immigration and
Naturalization Service told the judge that the FBI considers Alolaiwi a "person
of interest" but provided no other details, said his lawyer, Dorothy Harper.

Agents apprehended Alolaiwi on the afternoon of Oct. 10 at his St. Louis
apartment. The native of Saudi Arabia entered the United States in 1989 on a
student visa, according to Osama El Far, another Middle Eastern man who is being
held with Alolaiwi in the Mississippi County Jail in Missouri's Bootheel. El Far
said Alolaiwi eventually left school and began working in construction. In
recent years, Alolaiwi did home repair work for Bosnian immigrants here.

In a second case, an immigration judge agreed to release Ibrahim Bayoumi on a
$5,000 bond despite arguments by an INS lawyer at Wednesday's hearing that
Bayoumi was a security threat, said his lawyer, Justin Meehan.

Bayoumi entered the United States through New York on July 5, 2000, on a
businessman's visa.

Agents detained Bayoumi on Oct. 7 at Lambert Field after he left a van parked in
front of a passenger terminal. Bayoumi, 28, said he told agents he was
accompanying a friend to seek a refund on an airline ticket.

But at Wednesday's hearing, an INS lawyer argued that the airport trip could
have been a dry run to test Lambert's security.

"It was patently without merit and sheer speculation," Meehan said of the
government allegation.

The judge rejected the INS contention and granted Bayoumi bond and scheduled a
removal hearing for next week in which Bayoumi could be ordered deported to his
native Egypt, Meehan said.

But later Wednesday, the INS attorney filed a motion contesting the bond, saying
that Bayoumi remains a "person of national interest."

The move, in essence, assures that Bayoumi remains behind bars indefinitely,
Meehan said. He is being held in the Jennings jail.

"They will not divulge why he is of national interest," Meehan said. "They will
not tell him what investigative agency is interested in him or why. He is
effectively denied bond until he's forced from the country. They should be
required to give a legitimate reason instead of using the catch phrase 'national
security' to sweep everything under the rug."

Meehan called the government's move underhanded and said he learned of it only
after Bayoumi's fiancee went to post his bond Wednesday afternoon.

"They didn't even have the decency to call me as his representative," Meehan
said.

Meehan speculated that the government appealed Bayoumi's bond in retaliation for
Bayoumi's talking to the press about his situation.

"This is just their way of punishing him for having made his bid for freedom
public," Meehan said.

The INS lawyer declined to comment and referred questions to the agency's
Washington office.

"The government has as much right to appeal an adverse decision by a judge as
does the attorney representing the alien charged with violation of immigration
laws," said Russ Bergeron, an INS spokesman in Washington.

In a third case, a judge granted El Far's request to leave the country
voluntarily, but in the meantime, he will continue to be held without bail, said
Harper, who is also El Far's attorney.

Agents detained El Far on Sept. 24 after a fellow mechanic at the commuter
airline at Lambert Field where he worked reported him to authorities for
allegedly saying he considered Osama bin Laden a role model. El Far denies
making the comment.

El Far, 30, entered the United States from Egypt on a student visa in 1996. He
quit school and went to work for Trans State Airline at Lambert in January 1998.
El Far has 30 days to buy a ticket and leave the country. The Immigration and
Naturalization Service will escort El Far aboard his flight, Harper said.

It's uncertain whether El Far will be given time to settle his affairs or
collect or dispose of his belongings before leaving. On Tuesday, the FBI
returned a computer they had seized from El Far's University City apartment.

All three men admit to being in the country illegally, staying longer than their
visas allow. They also acknowledge holding jobs in violation of immigration
laws. All three deny any connection to the Sept. 11 attacks and say they have
cooperated with investigators. Lawyers have complained that Middle Eastern
detainees are being treated differently than others in the wake of the attacks,
being denied bail and prevented from meeting with their families.

The three are among an unknown number of Middle Eastern men detained in the St.
Louis area in recent weeks. Government officials refuse to say whether any of
the others taken into custody locally are being held in connection with the
investigation or other, unrelated violations.

Others in custody include a Jordanian, who has declined legal assistance, and
Sadik Ali, a Yemen native who Meehan said was arrested Oct. 19 at the Greyhound
Bus Terminal in St. Louis while trying to buy a bus ticket to New York to visit
a friend. Ali, 49, entered the country on a three-month visa that expired Sept.
17, Meehan said. Ali told Meehan he had been interviewed by agents from the FBI
and INS. Ali's lawyer could not be reached.

LOAD-DATE: October 25, 2001

LANGUAGE: English

NOTES: Reporter Phillip O'Connor: E-mail: poconnor@post-dispatch.com Phone:
314-340-8321

                  Copyright 2001 St. Louis Post-Dispatch, Inc.


                              73 of 275 DOCUMENTS

                       St. Louis Post-Dispatch (Missouri)

                October 27, 2001 Saturday Five Star Lift Edition

AT A GLANCE

BYLINE: From News Services

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 9

LENGTH: 713 words


PATERSON, N.J.

INS will speed release of FBI-cleared suspects

Federal immigration authorities said Friday they would speed up the release of
people arrested by the government after the terrorist attacks once the FBI
clears them of criminal involvement.

Immigration and Naturalization Service officials told representatives of area
Muslim communities they would speed up paperwork and approvals whenever
possible, and keep community leaders informed.

The meeting followed Tuesday's death of Muhammed Rafiq Butt, who was arrested
Sept. 19 as part of the FBI's investigation into the terrorist attacks. He had
been cleared of involvement.

An autopsy determined the 55-year-old Pakistani died of heart problems as he
waited for deportation documents to be cleared up.

WASHINGTON

CIA eases rules on recruiting informers

The CIA has loosened its rules to let field officers recruit informers with
violent or criminal backgrounds without prior approval from headquarters, a U.S.
official said Friday.

CIA Director George Tenet and other senior agency officials changed the policy
so officers can get information about terrorists as quickly as possible, said
the official, speaking on the condition of anonymity.

Under the policy shift, field officers can recruit such sources immediately if
they have information on terrorist threats. Within a few days, they must inform
the head of the CIA's clandestine service, Deputy Director for Operations James
L. Pavitt, who must approve the recruitment.

Since 1995, field officers have had to seek approval from CIA headquarters
before using someone with a history of human rights abuses as a source, for
example.

CANADA

Fighters escort airplane to safe landing in Canada

U.S. jet fighters escorted a private jet headed for Washington to an unscheduled
landing Friday in a Canadian town because of incorrect information from an
onboard electronic device.

Sgt. Steve Saunders of the Royal Canadian Mounted Police said F-16s from Minot
Air Base in North Dakota brought the Gulfstream aircraft to its landing in
Brandon, Manitoba, late Friday afternoon. The plane was flying to the U.S.
capital from Japan.

Police and emergency vehicles surrounded the plane, but Saunders said he
believed the incident did not involve a security threat. John Christinsen, the
airport manager in Brandon, said he was told by Winnipeg air traffic control
that the flight was "squawking wrong" - meaning an onboard electronic device
that helps air controllers track the plane was sending out incorrect
information.

Brandon is 90 miles west of Winnipeg in southern Manitoba, about 50 miles north
of the U.S.-Canadian border.

SWITZERLAND

WHO is preparing for attacks with smallbox

More than 20 years after smallpox was officially eradicated, the World Health
Organization said Friday it was preparing for possible new outbreaks of the
disease as a result of terrorism.

"Should an outbreak of smallpox be detected in any country, this should be
considered an international emergency," said WHO Director-General Gro Harlem
Brundtland.

Amid a spate of suspicious anthrax cases in the United States, Brundtland asked
an independent committee to update the U.N. health agency's guidelines on how to
deal with smallpox - a highly infectious disease that kills nearly one-third of
those infected. The committee cautioned against mass smallpox vaccinations,
concluding that the risks out weighed the benefits.

PAKISTAN

2 nuclear scientists are held for questioning

Two leading nuclear scientists are in custody for questioning about alleged
pro-Taliban sympathies, the Pakistani government confirmed Friday.

Maj. Gen. Rashid Quereshi, a spokesman for President Gen. Pervez Musharraf, said
the two men were being questioned about alleged ties to Mullah Mohammad Omar,
the leader of Afghanistan's Taliban regime.

The men have not been charged and will probably be released within days, he
said. The questioning was part of a wider, more general investigation of
organizations and people who have worked with or in Afghanistan, he said.

Sultan Bashiru-Din Mehmood is a pioneering member of Pakistan's nuclear program.
The other detained scientist is Abdul Majid, who worked with Mehmood for years
at the Pakistan Atomic Energy Commission.

LOAD-DATE: October 27, 2001

LANGUAGE: English

NOTES: AMERICA RESPONDS

                  Copyright 2001 St. Louis Post-Dispatch, Inc.


                              74 of 275 DOCUMENTS

                       St. Louis Post-Dispatch (Missouri)

                October 30, 2001 Tuesday Five Star Lift Edition

BUSH ORDERS CRACKDOWN ON FOREIGN STUDENT VISAS;
 ASHCROFT, POWELL WILL LEAD EFFORTS TO TIGHTEN CONTROLS IN WAKE OF TERROR
ATTACKS;
 CONGRESS ALSO PLANS RESTRICTIONS

BYLINE: The Associated Press

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. A4

LENGTH: 645 words

DATELINE: WASHINGTON


President George W. Bush ordered a crackdown Monday on foreign student visas -
the documents that gave at least one of the Sept. 11 terrorist hijackers free
access to the United States.

"We're going to start asking a lot of questions that heretofore have not been
asked," Bush said.

As he led the debut meeting of his Homeland Security Council, the president also
put Attorney General John Ashcroft at the helm of a new task force on tracking
terrorists and making sure they do not slip into the United States.

Bush instructed the Justice, Treasury and State departments to work with Canada
and Mexico on a shared immigration and customs database that would make all
three nations' cross-border policies compatible.

He also asked White House science and technology experts to work with the CIA on
recommendations to use advanced technology in enforcing immigration laws.

"We welcome legal immigrants. ... We welcome the process that encourages people
to come to our country to visit, to study or to work," Bush said.

"What we don't welcome are people who come to hurt the American people, and so
therefore, we're going to be very diligent with our visas and observant with the
behavior of people who come to this country."

Bush gave few details about what changes foreign students might expect, except
to say his administration will "tighten up the visa policy" and monitor students
after they arrive.

"We're going to make sure that when somebody comes we understand their intended
purpose, and that they fulfill the purpose on their application," Bush said.

About 600,000 foreigners are admitted each year on student visas and more than
26,000 U.S. colleges and universities are authorized to enroll them.

Federal investigators have concluded that Hani Hanjour, one of the men suspected
of hijacking the plane that crashed into the Pentagon, entered the United States
in December on a student visa after promising to enroll - but never showing up -
at Holy Names College in Oakland, Calif.

Mohamed Atta, suspected of being at the controls of one of the jets that crashed
into the World Trade Center, was allowed to enter the country after immigration
officials determined that he had an application for a student visa pending.

"We're generous with our universities. We're generous with our job
opportunities," Bush said in the White House Cabinet Room. "And never did we
realize that people would take advantage of our generosity to the extent they
have."

The counterterrorism legislation that Bush signed Friday included $36.8 million
to put in place before the end of the year a database to track foreign students.
Sen. Edward M. Kennedy, D-Mass., chairman of the Senate Judiciary subcommittee
on immigration, "agrees tighter controls are needed" and has already introduced
legislation restricting student visas, said Stephanie Cutter, a spokeswoman.

Some lawmakers have proposed a six-month moratorium on new foreign student visas
until a system for tracking them can be implemented. Bush stopped short of
taking that step Monday.

The new task force, which is to be up and running by Thursday, also will
coordinate efforts by government agencies to locate, detain, prosecute or deport
terrorist group associates who already live here.

Ashcroft and Secretary of State Colin Powell, who just a few months ago were
considering relaxing the immigration system for guest workers, will lead the
effort to tighten controls on student visas.

The pair will "look at all options, all policies and procedures relating to
access of noncitizens to this country," Tom Ridge, director of Bush's Office of
Homeland Security, told reporters.

"A point of access becomes a point of vulnerability," Ridge said. He said it was
too early to say whether Bush will be able to tighten the visa system on his own
or will need Congress to approve legislation.

LOAD-DATE: October 30, 2001

LANGUAGE: English

NOTES: AMERICA RESPONDS

GRAPHIC: PHOTO; THE ASSOCIATED PRESS Photo - President George W. Bush said
Monday he wants foreign student visa applicants scrutinized. "We welcome the
process that encourages people to come to our country to visit, to study or to
work," Bush said. "What we don't welcome are people who come to hurt the
American people."

                  Copyright 2001 St. Louis Post-Dispatch, Inc.


                              75 of 275 DOCUMENTS

                       St. Louis Post-Dispatch (Missouri)

                  November 1, 2001 Thursday Three Star Edition

NEW RULES TIGHTEN U.S. IMMIGRATION POLICIES ;
 OFFICIALS DON'T KNOW HOW MANY FOREIGNERS ARE HERE WITH EXPIRED STUDENT VISAS

BYLINE: The Associated Press

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. A2

LENGTH: 675 words

DATELINE: WASHINGTON


The government tightened its immigration policies Wednesday, promising to use
more extensive background checks and better intelligence-sharing to keep out
suspected terrorists and their supporters.

Attorney General John Ashcroft asked the State Department to designate 46
terrorist organizations whose members or supporters will not be permitted to
enter the country.

"America will not allow terrorists to use our hospitality as a weapon against
us," he said. Even people who endorse terrorism or have supported terrorist
groups in the past will be kept outside U.S. borders or deported, Ashcroft said.

All 46 groups have been previously identified by the administration in various
orders and reports. The new designations bring their members and supporters
under the provisions of the new anti-terrorism law enacted by Congress.

Ashcroft also said he was setting up a foreign terrorist tracking task force
that will foster better coordination among intelligence, law enforcement and
immigration officials.

He promised that the government would delve more deeply into the backgrounds of
people seeking visitor visas and will turn the information over to the CIA and
FBI for further investigation before issuing permission to enter.

"This is clear authority that strengthens our ability to say to terrorists,
you're not welcome in the United States," Ashcroft said.

The Justice Department said 1,087 people have been arrested or detained in the
investigations of the attacks on Sept. 11. It said 182 of those arrested have
been charged with immigration violations.

Also Wednesday, federal officials said the government does not know how many
foreigners have remained in the United States illegally after their student
visas expired. Nor do they know how many of those foreigners never got to the
schools where they were to study.

A lax tracking system means the State Department and the Immigration and
Naturalization Service cannot say the extent to which the student visa program
has been abused, agency officials said at a House hearing.

The INS is setting up a computer tracking system that would require schools to
report any change in a foreign student's status - such a change in enrollment,
major or address.

Four senators are working on bills that would impose limits on the student visa
system.

U.S. interviewed hijackers

The State Department said Wednesday that 15 of the 19 hijackers in the attacks
on Sept. 11 had applied U.S. for visas in Saudi Arabia. Their names were checked
against lists of suspected terrorists, and six were interviewed, officials said.
All were granted visas.

"The president has directed that agencies cooperate to better identify potential
terrorists, to better identify applicants coming to the United States, to better
track them, to better know whether they show up at the places they were supposed
to show up in terms of schooling, and we're part of that interagency effort,"
State Department spokesman Richard Boucher said.

The task force will be charged with denying entry to members or representatives
of terrorist organizations and immigrants who are suspected of having engaged in
terrorist activities or having provided support.

Under new rules, immigration authorities can deny entry to members of political
or social groups that endorse terrorist activities. People who use their
prominence to endorse terrorism can also be barred, and anyone certified by the
attorney general as a threat to national security can be denied entry.

Heading the task force will be Steven C. McCraw, the deputy assistant director
of the intelligence branch of the FBI's Investigative Services Division.

Immigration Commissioner James Ziglar said the task force would provide
immigration officials with current information that would help them to keep
suspected terrorists out of the country.

Ashcroft said the 46 groups include those linked to Osama bin Laden's al-Qaida
network, those whose assets have been frozen by presidential order and those
accused of engaging in terrorist activities.

LOAD-DATE: November 1, 2001

LANGUAGE: English

GRAPHIC: PHOTO; Photo by AGENCE FRANCE-PRESSE - James Ziglar (left), head of the
Immigration and Naturalization Service, and Attorney General John Ashcroft brief
reporters in Washington Wednesday on a new task force to improve coordination
among officials.

                  Copyright 2001 St. Louis Post-Dispatch, Inc.


                              76 of 275 DOCUMENTS

                       St. Louis Post-Dispatch (Missouri)

                November 1, 2001 Thursday Five Star Lift Edition

JUDGE AGREES TO RELEASE OF MAN FROM SAUDI ARABIA

BYLINE: Phillip O'Connor Of The Post-Dispatch

SECTION: METRO; Pg. B2

LENGTH: 341 words


An immigration judge on Wednesday agreed to the release of a Middle Eastern man
detained in the St. Louis area after the Sept. 11 terrorist attacks, despite
arguments by a government lawyer that the man remained a security risk.

Khaled Alolaiwi will be released after paying a $10,000 cash bond, probably
later this week, said his lawyer, Dorothy Harper. A deportation hearing will be
scheduled or he can opt to leave the country voluntarily.

Agents apprehended Alolaiwi on the afternoon of Oct. 10 at his St. Louis
apartment. He was originally scheduled to appear for a bond hearing last week,
but an Immigration and Naturalization Service lawyer requested the hearing be
postponed because the FBI considered Alolaiwi a "person of interest." Alolaiwi
was being held in a Mississippi County jail.

An Immigration and Naturalization Service lawyer made similar claims during
Wednesday's closed-door hearing in St. Louis and asked that Alolaiwi, 36, be
denied bond, Harper said. She said the government provided no evidence to back
up its claim that Alolaiwi was a security threat.

Instead, she said, the lawyer noted that Alolaiwi, like most of the hijackers,
is a native of Saudi Arabia. He also is in the country illegally after
overstaying a student visa, as was at least one of the hijackers.

"He said it wasn't little, white-haired old ladies who crashed the planes into
the World Trade Center," Harper said of the Immigration and Naturalization
Service lawyer. "Somehow, that translated to him as not being racial profiling.
This is purely racial profiling."

The Immigration and Naturalization Service lawyer has declined to comment. A
spokesman could not be reached for comment.

An unknown number of Middle Eastern men have been detained in the St. Louis area
in the weeks since Sept. 11. Immigration and Naturalization Service officials
have declined to provide a list of those taken into custody or released.
Alolaiwi first entered the United States in 1989 on a student visa. In recent
years, he did home repair work.

LOAD-DATE: November 1, 2001

LANGUAGE: English

NOTES: Reporter Phillip O'Connor:; E-mail: poconnor@post-dispatch.com; Phone:
314-340-8321

                  Copyright 2001 St. Louis Post-Dispatch, Inc.


                              77 of 275 DOCUMENTS

                       St. Louis Post-Dispatch (Missouri)

                 November 7, 2001 Wednesday Three Star Edition

AUDITORS SAY INS IS LAX ON TRACKING OF CRIMINALS ;
 REPORT FAULTS OFFICERS FOR INACTION AFTER INTERVIEWS ARE SKIPPED

BYLINE: The Associated Press

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. A8

LENGTH: 403 words

DATELINE: WASHINGTON


Immigration officials do little to track down foreigners with criminal histories
who skip mandatory follow-up interviews once they enter the United States,
government auditors disclosed Tuesday.

One criminal who failed to show up was later convicted of raping a child, the
Justice Department inspector general reported.

The internal report faulted Immigration and Naturalization Service officials for
failing to locate questionable foreigners who skipped the interviews.

"We found that the INS took little or no follow-up action on the no-shows," the
report says. It says that "individuals who do not appear for their inspection do
so with virtual impunity."

The vast majority of the 75 million people who pass through airport inspections
are admitted after an initial screening with immigration officials.

Those with immigration problems or criminal backgrounds are turned over to a
second inspector who decides whether the foreigner should be turned away or
allowed to enter with a chance to clear up problems at a follow-up inspection at
an INS district office.

The government has cracked down on immigration policies since the suicide
hijackings of Sept. 11. INS officials said Tuesday that inspectors were being
more careful about deferring interviews.

The agency agreed to carry out the report's recommendations that it fingerprint
foreigners and hold on to travel documents for those with criminal backgrounds
who were admitted pending inspections. Some also will be required to post bond.

Investigators looked at 725 cases of deferred inspections at nine unidentified
airports from July 1998 through August 1999. In 11 percent, of the cases,
foreigners failed to show up.

Foreigners with criminal backgrounds or those whose names are on watch lists are
more likely to skip the follow-up interview, the report said, noting that 42 of
the 79 no-shows were identified as having criminal records or immigration
violations.

Five of the no-shows were later arrested and convicted of aggravated felonies.

The report says inspectors lack up-to-date information on convictions or
sentences of foreigners. Sometimes they admit foreigners on the premise that
they will later present court records showing how their cases were resolved, the
report says.

Officials have previously disclosed that one of the Sept. 11 Mohamed Atta,
underwent such a deferred interview and was permitted into the country.

LOAD-DATE: November 7, 2001

LANGUAGE: English

NOTES: AMERICA RESPONDS

                  Copyright 2001 St. Louis Post-Dispatch, Inc.


                              78 of 275 DOCUMENTS

                       St. Louis Post-Dispatch (Missouri)

               November 15, 2001 Thursday Five Star Lift Edition

IMMIGRATION AGENCY FACES SPLIT INTO TWO;
 PLAN IS AIMED AT KEEPING BETTER TRACK OF FOREIGNERS, SPEEDING RESIDENCY PROCESS

BYLINE: The Associated Press

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. A9

LENGTH: 367 words

DATELINE: WASHINGTON


Attorney General John Ashcroft announced a major restructuring of the
Immigration and Naturalization Service on Wednesday and said it would help fight
terrorism and speed up service.

The plan seeks to separate the agency's two often-conflicting missions of
keeping out foreigners who violate U.S. law and helping legal immigrants and
visitors, he said.

"The restructuring of the immigration institutions we undertake today will make
the (Immigration and Naturalization Service) a better service to our friends and
a greater obstacle to our enemy," Ashcroft said.

The change fulfills a campaign pledge by President George W. Bush to try to
reduce long waits endured by people who apply for benefits such as
naturalization or permanent residence.

It also seeks to address deficiencies in how the service tracks foreigners who
enter the country.

Under the plan, a new Bureau of Immigration Enforcement will oversee issues
involving intelligence, investigations and illegal aliens. A new Bureau of
Immigration Services will process applications for naturalization, asylum, work
permits and residency green card renewals and deal with other immigrant benefits
questions.

Regional and district directors who now oversee both service and law enforcement
would be eliminated. A chief information officer would ensure that the agencies
share information.

An office of juvenile affairs to handle problems related to immigrant children
and an ombudsman to deal with grievances against the Border Patrol also would be
established.

Immigration and Naturalization Service Commissioner James Ziglar said unifying
law enforcement into a single chain of command is a critical part of the plan,
which is to be completed by Sept. 30, 2003.

Congress is considering its own plans for remaking the agency, including one
that would abolish it and establish two new agencies. Critics in Congress say
they field more calls from constituents about problems involving the immigration
service than any other agency.

Ziglar said some parts of the restructuring plan would require legislation,
although most of it can be done administratively. He was to present the
restructuring plan at a House hearing today.

LOAD-DATE: November 15, 2001

LANGUAGE: English

NOTES: AMERICA RESPONDS

                  Copyright 2001 St. Louis Post-Dispatch, Inc.


                              79 of 275 DOCUMENTS

                       St. Louis Post-Dispatch (Missouri)

                November 23, 2001 Friday Five Star Lift Edition

GEPHARDT VOWS TO PUSH IMMIGRATION REFORMS ;
 HE AND OTHER LAWMAKERS WANT LEGAL STATUS GRANTED TO ILLEGAL HISPANIC WORKERS

BYLINE: Deirdre Shesgreen Post-Dispatch Washington Bureau

SECTION: METRO; Pg. C4

LENGTH: 419 words

DATELINE: WASHINGTON


Rep. Richard Gephardt says he and other lawmakers are committed to granting
legal status to millions of undocumented Hispanic workers, despite the change in
public sentiment about immigration since Sept. 11.

Gephardt's comments came Wednesday on the heels of a trip he and Senate Majority
Leader Tom Daschle, D-S.D., made to Mexico, where they met with President
Vicente Fox and members of the Mexican parliament.

"We told them that we were still committed" to enacting immigration reforms,
said Gephardt, D-Mo.

Congressional Democrats have proposed an "earned legalization program," under
which millions of immigrants who have been working in the United States
illegally would be given legal status.

Gephardt and others have argued that these are hard-working, tax-paying
immigrants who deserve to be here and that their legalization would help
employers by providing a more stable work force.

Gephardt said that although the Sept. 11 attacks pushed the issue to the back
burner, he is still optimistic about getting legislation passed next year.

On Tuesday, negotiations on the issue restarted with a meeting in Washington
between Mexican and American officials.

Gephardt said he believes the public would be receptive to the legalization as
long as Congress passed the legalization provisions in tandem with other changes
in immigration policy, such as new restrictions on visas to enter the United
States.

Gephardt and Daschle spent three days in Mexico last weekend, meeting with human
rights groups and relatives of victims killed in the Sept. 11 attacks as well as
government officials.

Gephardt said that in their meetings with Mexican officials, he and Daschle also
discussed ways to improve border security, drug interdiction and economic
stability.

The two lawmakers traveled to a rural village in the state of Puebla that has
lost much of its population to migration.

"In some of these areas, as many as half the men have left and gone to America"
in search of work, Gephardt said. "They have recruited Mexican-Americans who
have done well in the U.S. to adopt each of these regions."

The adoption program encourages the Mexican-Americans to invest in the regions.
Gephardt said the United States is trying to bolster the effort by providing
small loans to get small businesses off the ground.

He said such efforts could be the best way to stem illegal immigration. "The
only way we're going to stop illegal immigration is if the Mexican economy can
function better," he said.

LOAD-DATE: November 23, 2001

LANGUAGE: English

NOTES: Reporter Deirdre Shesgreen: E-mail: dshesgreen@post-dispatch.com Phone:
202-298-6880

                  Copyright 2001 St. Louis Post-Dispatch, Inc.


                              80 of 275 DOCUMENTS

                       St. Louis Post-Dispatch (Missouri)

                November 27, 2001 Tuesday Five Star Lift Edition

EGYPTIAN ASKS FOR HEARING TO EXPLAIN REASONS FOR HIS DETENTION

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. A5

LENGTH: 252 words


An Egyptian airplane mechanic on a hunger strike in jail asked the U.S. District
Court on Monday for a hearing to force a public explanation of his detention.

Osama El Far, 30, of University City, has been held since Sept. 24, when federal
agents detained him for questioning. According to his lawyers, one of El Far's
co-workers at Trans States Airlines at Lambert Field alleged that El Far had
called Osama bin Laden a role model.

El Far has denied making any such or similar statement, or having anyt hing to
do with the terrorist attacks Sept. 11. He admitted violating immigration laws
by staying after his 1996 student visa expired and by getting a job. He said he
was willing to fly home to Egypt.

El Far is being held in the Mississippi County Jail in Charleston, in Missouri's
Bootheel, for the federal Immigration and Naturalization Service. His court
petition says he passed an FBI polygraph test.

A spokesman for the immigration service office in St. Louis could not be reached
Monday.

Jailers and El Far's lawyer said El Far began a hunger strike Friday to protest
his detention and remained on the strike Monday.

"He's strong and alert, but he's still refusing food," said Mississippi County
jail administrator Don Chance.

J. Justin Meehan, lawyer for El Far, filed a petition with the federal court
downtown. The petition alleges that El Far is being held illegally and asks the
court to force federal officials to explain why El Far is being held, or to
consent to his release.

LOAD-DATE: November 27, 2001

LANGUAGE: English

NOTES: AMERICA RESPONDS

GRAPHIC: PHOTO; Photo Headshot - (Osama) El Far, Has been held since Sept. 24

                  Copyright 2001 St. Louis Post-Dispatch, Inc.


                              81 of 275 DOCUMENTS

                       St. Louis Post-Dispatch (Missouri)

               November 28, 2001 Wednesday Five Star Lift Edition

ASHCROFT RELEASES DATA ON TERRORISM DETAINEES;
 MOST, FROM MIDDLE EAST OR ASIA, ARE ACCUSED OF BREAKING IMMIGRATION LAWS

BYLINE: Karen Branch-Brioso Post-Dispatch Washington Bureau

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. A1

LENGTH: 862 words

DATELINE: WASHINGTON


On the eve of the first congressional hearing on the Justice Department's civil
rights record in its anti-terrorism mission, Attorney General John Ashcroft
released the most detailed information to date on the detention of hundreds
since the Sept. 11 terrorism attacks.

He said Tuesday that 548 are being held on immigration violations and 104 are
charged with federal crimes in the post-Sept. 11 sweep. The numbers reveal what
many suspected but could not be determined from prior information released by
the Justice Department: Most are being held on immigration violations, including
10 who are also charged with federal crimes.

And most of them are from Middle Eastern or Central Asian nations.

Of the 548 in immigration custody, 208 were born in Pakistan, a main U.S. ally
in its war against terrorism. Another 74 came from Egypt, the birthplace of
Mohamed Atta, the suspected ringleader in the attacks on the World Trade Center
and the Pentagon.

Ashcroft defended both the aggressive roundup, as well as the Justice
Department's scant release of information to date:

"The Department of Justice is waging a deliberate campaign of arrest and
detention to protect American lives," Ashcroft said at a news conference where
he unveiled the information, just hours before Assistant Attorney General
Michael Cherthoff will face the Senate Judiciary Committee today.

"We're removing suspected terrorists who violate the law from our streets to
prevent further terrorist attack. We believe we have al-Qaida membership in
custody, and we will use every constitutional tool to keep suspected terrorists
locked up."

Ashcroft declined to provide details on which people in custody he believes to
be connected with Osama bin Laden, chief suspect in the Sept. 11 attacks, or his
al-Qaida network.

Ashcroft also did not provide a number of details on the detainees that have
been clamored for by civil libertarian groups, immigration advocates and Senate
Judiciary Committee Chairman Patrick Leahy, D-Vt.

Among those questions are where the immigration detainees are being held, their
names and the names of their lawyers.

Leahy offered a tepid reaction: "I welcome the additional information the
attorney general has provided about the detainees. For the purpose of our
committee's oversight of the handling of these detentions, the answers we have
received so far have not been responsive to our requests. But we look forward to
working with the attorney general toward a full accounting."

The Senate Judiciary Committee hearings that begin this morning will continue at
least through next week, when Ashcroft himself is scheduled to testify.

"Valuable intelligence"

Ashcroft said he would release what he was legally required to release, but
deemed the names of immigration detainees to be too sensitive for public
scrutiny. The Justice Department also has not provided any information on people
held as "material witnesses" to the Sept. 11 attacks, citing grand jury rules
that prohibit such disclosures.

"When the United States is at war, I will not share valuable intelligence with
our enemies. We might as well mail this list to the Osama bin Laden al-Qaida
network as to release it," Ashcroft said of the details he has declined to
disclose.

For example, in the information released Tuesday, the Justice Department did not
detail the birthplaces of the 93 people charged in criminal indictments or
complaints, although that information was given for immigration cases. But the
Justice Department did release the names of those charged with crimes. They
include three men with Missouri ties:

* St. Louis native Mujahid Abdulqaadir Menepta, 51, formerly known as Melvin
Lattimore, who is being held without bail in Oklahoma City on federal weapons
charges.

* Adel Badri, 26, a Saudi-born student at Wentworth Military Academy in
Warrensburg, Mo,. who is being held without bond in Kansas City on federal
charges of writing about $10,000 worth of bad checks.

* Kansas City resident Wathek Al-Atabi, 25, who is free on bond from a
Pennsylvania federal court in connection with an alleged scam to fraudulently
obtain a license to haul hazardous material. He is an Iraqi native who became a
naturalized U.S. citizen last year.

The American Civil Liberties Union was somewhat more approving Tuesday of
Ashcroft's release of information on the detainees:

"By releasing fragmentary information today, Attorney General Ashcroft finally
seems to have recognized that who the government chooses to arrest and hold in
custody cannot be kept a secret under our system of government," said Tim Edgar,
an ACLU legislative counsel. "He now needs to promptly take the next step of
releasing all of the basic information that members of Congress and civil rights
groups have requested so the American public can be assured that the hundreds of
detainees are being treated fairly and given the basic protections guaranteed to
all people in America by the Constitution."

===

Of those detained by the Justice Department on immigration charges:

208 are from Pakistan, the most from any one country.

74 are from Egypt, the second most.

4 are from Afghanistan.

LOAD-DATE: November 29, 2001

LANGUAGE: English

NOTES: AMERICA RESPONDS

GRAPHIC: PHOTO, GRAPHIC; (1) Color Photo headshot - (Attorney General John)
Ashcroft; "A deliberate campaign"; ; (2) Graphic/chart - Nations of origin of
detainees Nations of origin of the people being held on immigration violations
by the Justice Department in its terrorism investigation: Pakistan ... 208 Syria
....  9 Egypt .....  74 Guyana ...  8 Turkey ....  47 Bangladesh 6 Yemen .....
38 Algeria ...  5 India .....  20 Afghanistan 4 Jordan ....  16 Iran ...... 4
Saudi Arabia 16 Mauritania 4 Morocco .... 15 Iraq ...... 3 Lebanon .... 11
Kuwait .... 3 Tunisia .... 11 Spain ..... 3 Israel .....  9 Others ... 34

TYPE: PROFILE; SECRET GOVERNMENT DETENTIONS; TERRORIST SUSPECTS

                  Copyright 2001 St. Louis Post-Dispatch, Inc.


                              82 of 275 DOCUMENTS

                       St. Louis Post-Dispatch (Missouri)

                December 1, 2001 Saturday Five Star Lift Edition

ASHCROFT WILL ANNOUNCE U.S. AND CANADIAN PARTNERSHIP TO FIGHT TERRORISM,
OFFICIAL SAYS

BYLINE: Karen Branch-Brioso Post-Dispatch Washington Bureau

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 8

LENGTH: 378 words

DATELINE: WASHINGTON


* Immigration and border-security agreements will be detailed at a meeting
Monday in Detroit.

Attorney General John Ashcroft will announce a series of immigration and
border-security agreements with Canada on Monday, a senior administration
official told the Post-Dispatch. The announcement will come as Ashcroft leads a
U.S. delegation to meetings with Canadian officials in Detroit and Ottawa.

U.S. Immigration and Naturalization Service Commissioner James Ziglar will
accompany Ashcroft Sunday to Detroit, which borders Windsor, Ontario. Monday
morning, they will make a public announcement of the accords with Canadian
Immigration Minister Elinor Caplan and Solicitor General Lawrence MacAulay,
their offices confirmed Friday. Deputy Prime Minister Herb Gray is also expected
to attend.

"It's a huge day Monday," said MacAulay spokesman Dan Brien, who noted the
bi-national delegations later in the day will take the ceremonies to the
Canadian capital of Ottawa to commemorate agreements "on immigration, border
customs and law enforcement issues."

"There are a number of agreements," said Caplan spokesman Derek Hodgson on
Friday night. "What I know is (Canadian officials) just faxed the final wording
to Washington a couple of hours ago. Clearly, both governments have decided they
have to work a lot harder together to prevent terrorism. It's coming to a head
this weekend."

Beefing up border patrols and tightening visa restrictions soared to the top of
the U.S. government's agenda in the wake of the Sept. 11 terrorism attacks on
the World Trade Center and the Pentagon. The 19 suspected hijackers who are
believed to have flown planes into those targets in a suicide mission all
entered the United States legally - on tourist, student and business visas.

And as the U.S. government tightens immigration controls, it has also asked the
bordering nations of Canada and Mexico to do likewise. Just over a month ago, in
President George W. Bush's first meeting of his Homeland Security Council, he
tapped Ashcroft to lead a task force on tracking terrorists to ensure they don't
enter the United States. He also directed the team to start talks with Canada
and Mexico aimed at simultaneously strengthening their visa and customs
restrictions.

LOAD-DATE: December 1, 2001

LANGUAGE: English

NOTES: AMERICA RESPONDS

GRAPHIC: PHOTO; Photo headshot - (John) Ashcroft - Leading U.S. delegation

                  Copyright 2001 St. Louis Post-Dispatch, Inc.


                              83 of 275 DOCUMENTS

                       St. Louis Post-Dispatch (Missouri)

                December 6, 2001 Thursday Five Star Lift Edition
                              Correction Appended

LOCAL BRIEFS

SECTION: METRO; Local Briefs Column; Pg. C2

LENGTH: 466 words


ST. LOUIS

Detainee returns home to Egypt, lawyer says

A man from Egypt who had been detained in a Missouri jail for 2 1/2 months was
believed to have made it safely to Cairo on Wednesday, according to one of the
man's attorneys and an Immigration and Naturalization Service official.

Osama El Far, 30, boarded a flight to Cairo late Tuesday after having left St.
Louis in the company of two federal agents. Held since Sept. 24, the airplane
mechanic was questioned regarding the terrorist attacks Sept. 11 but said he had
no connection to them. Officials learned he had violated immigration laws by
remaining in the country after his 1996 student visa had expired and getting a
job.

El Far left the country voluntarily but was accompanied by INS officers up until
the time he left the country.

In response to El Far's release, J. Justin Meehan, one of the man's attorneys,
filed a motion Wednesday to dismiss a request for a hearing to force an
explanation of the detention.

ST. LOUIS

SLU High is getting first woman principal

Mary Schenkenberg will become principal of St. Louis University High School on
July 1, the school announced Wednesday. She will be the first woman principal at
the Catholic high school for boys.

Schenkenberg, 57, is a former English teacher and principal at Nerinx Hall High
School, a Catholic girls' school in Webster Groves. Schenkenberg, of Glendale,
will replace principal Robert Bannister, who had announced he would retire.

SLUH, a Jesuit high school at 4970 Oakland Avenue, has about 1,000 students.

"I look forward to meeting the young men who make up this exceptional student
body," Schenkenberg said in a statement.

ST. LOUIS

Wednesday's high ties record set in '98

By 2:23 p.m. Wednesday, unseasonably nice weather managed to tie the record high
temperature of 72 degrees recorded in 1998.

The 72 degrees went on the books only one day after the St. Louis area reached a
record-breaking temperature of 74 degrees Tuesday.

"It's unusual when you break a record one day and tie a record the next day,"
said Vince Acquaviva, a meteorologist with the National Weather Service in
Weldon Spring.

After overnight showers and a low of 40 degrees, meteorologists say today's
temperature will climb to 61 degrees. That's still far above December's average
high of 45 degrees.

WENTZVILLE

GM plant here, UAW donate vans for New York

United Auto Workers Local 2250 and General Motors Wentzville donated labor and
material to build eight Savana cargo vans that will be given to the New York
City Fire Department.

Marty Aldrich, president of local 2250, said the vans are painted red and will
be used to aid recovery efforts from the Sept. 11 terrorist attacks.

The UAW and GM have donated more than 60 vans to the New York Fire Department.

LOAD-DATE: December 11, 2001

LANGUAGE: English



CORRECTION:
CORRECTION PUBLISHED Saturday, December 8, 2001: The United Auto Workers and
General Motors Corp. are donating more than 60 vehicles to the New York City
Fire Department. An item in this column mischaracterized the vehicles.

                  Copyright 2001 St. Louis Post-Dispatch, Inc.


                              84 of 275 DOCUMENTS

                       St. Louis Post-Dispatch (Missouri)

                December 6, 2001 Thursday Five Star Lift Edition

INS SETS UP DATABASE TO HELP POLICE IDENTIFY MISSING DEPORTEES

BYLINE: The Associated Press

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. A9

LENGTH: 282 words

DATELINE: WASHINGTON


The names of more than 300,000 foreigners who disappeared after being ordered
deported will be entered into a crime database so police can help track them
down, the Immigration and Naturalization Service said Wednesday.

By entering their names in the National Crime Information Center database, the
missing deportees might be identified by officers in traffic stops or other
identity checks, James Ziglar, commissioner of the immigration service, told the
House Government Reform subcommittee on criminal justice.

"We think this will send a message that when you come to the United States, you
are expected to stay here on the terms you are admitted on and that coming here
and staying in illegal status is not appropriate," Ziglar said.

The agency has come under heavy criticism since the terrorist attacks for its
failure to better track those who enter the country. The agency says it does not
know the whereabouts of 314,000 foreigners who were ordered deported.

Joe Karpinski, Ziglar's congressional liaison, said the vast majority had
committed administrative violations, such as overstaying a tourist visa, and are
not criminals. He said some may already have returned on their own to their
former countries.

Jim Pasco, executive director of the Fraternal Order of Police, applauded the
agency's move.

"One of the dirty little secrets of our immigration policy over the last 10
years was it was far too easy for people under deportation orders to just slip
away," Pasco said.

In addition to questioning universities about foreign students, the attorney
general's office is trying to interview about 5,000 people, mostly Middle
Eastern men, as part of its investigation.

LOAD-DATE: December 6, 2001

LANGUAGE: English

NOTES: AMERICA RESPONDS

                  Copyright 2001 St. Louis Post-Dispatch, Inc.


                              85 of 275 DOCUMENTS

                       St. Louis Post-Dispatch (Missouri)

               December 13, 2001 Thursday Five Star Lift Edition

SAN DIEGO SWEEP NETS 10 STUDENTS FROM MIDDLE EAST

BYLINE: The Associated Press

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. A10

LENGTH: 128 words

DATELINE: SAN DIEGO


Immigration authorities arrested 10 people in the San Diego area Wednesday in a
crackdown on Middle Eastern students suspected of violating the terms of their
visas by not being in school.

None of those arrested is suspected of involvement in the Sept. 11 attacks,
authorities said.

One detainee was released after authorities determined he was in the country
legally, and three others offered to return to their home countries, officials
said.

The case of another detainee was turned over to the U.S. attorney's office,
which will decide whether to file criminal charges. There was no immediate word
on the other five.

Lauren Mack, a spokeswoman for the Immigration and Naturalization Service, said
about 50 people were being sought in the San Diego area.

LOAD-DATE: December 13, 2001

LANGUAGE: English

NOTES: AMERICA RESPONDS

                  Copyright 2001 St. Louis Post-Dispatch, Inc.


                              86 of 275 DOCUMENTS

                       St. Louis Post-Dispatch (Missouri)

                  July 29, 2002 Monday Five Star Lift Edition

U.S. DIGEST

BYLINE: From News Services

SECTION: NEWS ; U.S. Digest Column; Pg. A5

LENGTH: 476 words


DALLAS

2 truckers are charged in deaths of illegal aliens

Two truck drivers were charged with murder in the deaths of two illegal Mexican
immigrants in a tractor-trailer rig smuggling aliens across the border,
officials said Sunday.Troy Dock and Jason Sprague were being held in lieu of $1
million bail each.

More than 40 immigrants are believed to have been riding in the truck Saturday,
but only 27 have been accounted for, said Lynn Ligon, a spokesman for the
Immigration and Naturalization Service. After a 12-hour journey, the immigrants
poured out of the 53-foot trailer exhausted and dehydrated at a truck stop.

The temperature hit 96 degrees Saturday in Dallas, and one of the survivors said
they had torn a small hole in the truck's roof for air. Fourteen passengers
remained hospitalized Sunday, and three were jailed on a charge of entering the
country illegally.

NEW YORK

9 firefighters are hurt battling blaze at stores

A four-alarm fire Sunday killed dozens of animals in a pet store and gutted
several stores, authorities said. Nine firefighters were injured.

The animals killed in the blaze at New York's Original Best Pets in Manhattan
included kittens, puppies, fish, turtles and birds, store owner Moses Caban
said.

The blaze broke out in a grocery just after 6 a.m., a fire department spokesman
said. It was extinguished about four hours later. The cause of the fire was
under investigation.

Six firefighters were taken to a hospital; their conditions were not immediately
available. Three other injured firefighters were treated at the scene.

WASHINGTON

Bush braves the heat to work on his golf game

President George W. Bush looked to sharpen his golf game Sunday in advance of a
long weekend in Maine, where he typically hits the links with his famously
competitive father.

For the second day in a row, Bush was heading to the golf course, undaunted by a
forecast of a 99-degree high and heavy humidity. Bush also golfed Saturday with
three Republican House members.

"I'm just trying to get out of the house," the president said. His playing
partners Sunday were a club pro and a couple of White House aides.

Bush starts a monthlong vacation Friday in Kennebunkport, Maine, returning to
Washington briefly for his annual physical examination before going to his Texas
ranch.

NEW YORK

Russian Tea Room fans gather for its closing

The Russian Tea Room was jammed with nostalgic borscht fans enjoying martinis
and caviar Sunday, the restaurant's final day.

"I'm very upset," said Claire Strauss, sipping a Bloody Mary at the bar. "My
husband and I used to come here all the time, for maybe the past 25 years. They
have the best borscht in town."

The restaurant, a beloved meeting spot for musicians, actors and publishers near
Carnegie Hall, underwent a three-year, $30 million renovation recently.

LOAD-DATE: July 29, 2002

LANGUAGE: English

GRAPHIC: PHOTO; Photo by THE ASSOCIATED PRESS - President George W. Bush hit the
links Sunday in Washington. "I'm just trying to get out of the house," he said

                  Copyright 2002 St. Louis Post-Dispatch, Inc.


                              87 of 275 DOCUMENTS

                       St. Louis Post-Dispatch (Missouri)

                 April 30, 2002 Tuesday Five Star Lift Edition

LETTERS TO THE EDITOR

SECTION: EDITORIAL; Pg. B6

LENGTH: 1453 words


Helping illegal aliens evade the law

In good times and bad, we can always rely on the Missouri Legislature for a
laugh. At least, that was my first reaction when I read that the House has
passed a bill allowing illegal aliens to obtain a drivers license in Missouri.

On further reflection, though, I'm no longer amused. This bill is another slap
in the face to all of us who obey the law, play by the rules and uphold our
obligations.

Is the Legislature planning on changing any other laws simply because they are
widely violated? The safety argument for this bill doesn't hold water. Anyone
who is now driving without a license will continue to do so even if they fail
the driving test. If they're driving uninsured now, they won't hesitate to
continue doing so.

The only result of this bill's becoming law will be to make it a little easier
for illegals to evade detection by the immigration authorities so that they can
continue to take jobs away from legal immigrants and citizens, and easier for
employers to use illegal labor to drive down wages. It benefits only those who
have chosen to disregard the law and does nothing for those of us who obey it.

Let's hope the Senate has better sense.

Thomas Barnes, St. Charles

It's little wonder so many people do not understand their responsibilities. Rep.
Henry C. Rizzo wants to help illegal immigrants get drivers licenses, saying
"They're here and they're driving anyway." That statement makes as much sense
as, "Well, kids are going to shoot other kids in school, so let's make it
legal."

As an elected official, Rizzo should uphold the law. Illegal immigrants should
not be in the state. Illegal means illegal. They should be returned to the
country from which they came.

Phillip Wells, Dellwood

= = = =

Most oppose stadium

Maybe a more honest headline for Sunday's paper would have been to use the
sub-heading from the story's continuation inside the paper. "Missourians oppose
ballpark funding, poll finds."

That surely says more about the article than the page one headline. But that may
have gone against your editorial agenda.

That taxpayer subsidies for the stadium are still on the discussion table after
all the negative stories about the state's budget situation is beyond belief.

If building the new stadium were such a good deal, private capital would be
pouring in. As it is not, the new stadium must not be a worse deal than the
recent dreadful, negative returns from the stock market.

Bruce L. Colella, Wildwood

Given the history of public funding for the Savvis Center and the failure to
follow through with commitments to the Kiel Opera House, why not put the horse
in front of the cart where it belongs? The Cardinals owners should build
Ballpark Village first. Once they have completed a reasonable part of the plan
(phase one), public funds would be released to help build the stadium. Then the
owners would be required to complete phase two of the Village on an agreed upon
timeline.

The city would actually get the revitalization promised, the owners would get a
new stadium and the public's financial interests would be protected. Everybody
wins.

Michael Jennings, Crestwood

= = = =

Picking another fight

President George W. Bush reportedly wants to use more than 250,000 ground troops
and an untold number of sea and air troops against a country that has not
attacked either us or any of our allies. Has anyone bothered to wonder why we
would do such a thing?

We are supposedly involved in a "war on terror," even though we don't seem to be
pursuing Osama bin Laden any longer. But why would we pick on a new enemy
without having finished off the last one?

Also, if we want to go after countries that sponsor terrorists, shouldn't we
attack Pakistan and Saudi Arabia before we consider attacking Iraq? They have
had many more ties with al-Qaida than Iraq does. So why are we not making plans
to overthrow them?

Finally, should we not wonder about what the repercussions of this attack will
be? Every country with the exception of Great Britain will view this attack with
anything ranging from armed aggression to open hostility to, at best, a lack of
support. If Britain supports us militari ly, Prime Minister Tony Blair and
Britain's support will both be gone within a week.

This has got to be one of the dumbest and most dangerous ideas to ever come from
the Bush administration. And in the realm of world affairs, that is quite an
accomplishment.

W. Michael Hinchcliff, Florissant

= = = =

Targeting Catholics

The people in the Catholic Church are not perfect. A very few priests (one-half
of 1 percent) have disgraced themselves, and a few of their superiors handled
some of those situations poorly. As a Catholic, I find it's painful

But as with any challenge in life, our faith in God will be stronger because of
these events, not weaker. The Post-Dispatch however, could not hold its disdain
for the Catholic Church, as evidenced by Sunday's pummeling by Kevin Horrigan.
Is it responsible journalism or hate that spews forth, "clueless" cardinals,
"two-day fish fry," and "flunky monsignor"?

Horrigan puts himself in the position of telling Catholics that our priests are
wrong for preaching about the sins of extramarital sex, homosexuality and
abortion. Those are sins no matter what some poll might say.

While the church will be OK, the Post-Dispatch has flown its true colors for all
to see. And the color of hate is ugly.

Steve Rupp, Florissant

= = = =

Gun issue is revived

Are we really back to this ridiculous concealed weapons issue? The voters made
their wishes known in 1999.

Perhaps the people who consider Missouri voters insane for not embracing the
idea of concealed weapons available at times of road rage, disparaging remarks
and differences of opinion should take up residence in one of those enlightened
states that encourage random acts of violence.

Jill Nelson, Crestwood

Here we go again. Three years after the defeat of Proposition B, the
Post-Dispatch refuses to consider concealed carry, using the mantra, "The people
have spoken."

But what did the people say? After the vote on Proposition B, I asked many
people who were neutral on the subject why they voted the way they did. Of those
voting against it, an overwhelming majority said the ballot language was
confusing, leading many to believe the cost of the proposal would be more than
$1 million for even a small village or municipality.

In reality, the cost would have been a fraction of that, even for the entire
state; but then-Secretary of State Bekki Cook, who was no friend of gun owners,
had final authority on ballot wording.

The Post-Dispatch editorial page opposes any measure to allow concealed carry.
Perhaps it is concerned that if the measure passes, the citizens of Missouri
will discover -- as have the citizens of 44 other states that allow some form of
concealed carry -- the Dodge City scenarios do not materialize.

Studies have shown that concealed carry permit holders in these states are
actually more law-abiding than non-permit holders. I suppose the citizens of
Missouri must be an exception.

Gordon Lehtola, Moscow Mills

= = = =

Give peace a chance

Some letters to the editor suggest that Palestinian terrorists are justified in
their actions because they have "no other course of action." This could not be
further from the truth.

History has demonstrated that those with legitimate causes can accomplish the
impossible with peaceful protest. Did not Gandhi create a nation and defeat the
mighty British empire with his peaceful resistance? Here in the United States,
did not Dr. Martin Luther King accomplish through peaceful protests what guns
and bombs could not?

Those who teach their children to hate will suffer the consequences. Israel
understands only too well what it means to be the target of fanatics bent on
their destruction. Is there anyone who doesn't think that Israel longs for peace
with its neighbors?

The Palestinians need a Dr. King or a Gandhi desperately.

Ken Goodgold, Wildwood

An April 27 article reported on America's unequivocal backing for Israel. There
may be many valid reasons for the United States to back Israel. But the reason
given by President George W. Bush -- "we will not allow Israel to be crushed" --
clearly is not among them.

With Israeli tanks and helicopter gun ships running amok throughout the West
Bank, how can Bush or anyone else really believe that it is Israel that is in
danger of being crushed?

Blatantly biased statements like this only serve to fuel the fires of hatred for
America among the Arabs -- not to mention among the millions of other Muslims
around the world.

Johnny Wells, Chesterfield

LOAD-DATE: April 30, 2002

LANGUAGE: English

GRAPHIC: GRAPHIC; Color Graphic/Illustration - (a fist punching through a wall)

TYPE: LETTERS

                  Copyright 2002 St. Louis Post-Dispatch, Inc.


                              88 of 275 DOCUMENTS

                       St. Louis Post-Dispatch (Missouri)

                 March 9, 2002 Saturday Five Star Lift Edition

IMMIGRANT AMNESTY MEASURE MAY GET ATTENTION FROM GOP LEADERS IN THE HOUSE

BYLINE: The Associated Press

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 22

LENGTH: 110 words

DATELINE: WASHINGTON


House Republican leaders say they're ready to take up a bill that would grant
amnesty to certain illegal immigrants and hope to pass it before President
George W. Bush visits Mexico this month.

Bush has pressed for the measure since last spring, when about 200,000 illegal
immigrants who qualified for amnesty missed the deadline to apply.

"I know this is something the White House wants," said John Feehery, spokesman
for House Speaker Dennis Hastert, R-Ill. Gaylen Barksdale, spokesman for House
Majority Leader Dick Armey, R-Texas, said GOP leaders want to bring the measure
to the floor Tuesday along with a larger immigration security bill.

LOAD-DATE: March 9, 2002

LANGUAGE: English

NOTES: NATION / WORLD

                  Copyright 2002 St. Louis Post-Dispatch, Inc.


                              89 of 275 DOCUMENTS

                       St. Louis Post-Dispatch (Missouri)

                 March 28, 2002 Thursday Five Star Lift Edition

TWO MEN ARE CHARGED WITH MAKING FAKE IDS;
 GROUP MAY HAVE OPERATED HERE FOR 3 YEARS, POLICE SAY

BYLINE: Heather Ratcliffe Of The Post-Dispatch

SECTION: METRO; Pg. C1

LENGTH: 382 words


Police said fake-ID peddlers arrested in Maryland Heights cared so little about
their customers that an undercover informer obtained cards in the names of 10 of
the FBI's most wanted criminals, including two of its most wanted terrorists.

Two illegal aliens accused of making hundreds of false identifications for
people across the St. Louis area were charged Wednesday.

Maryland Heights police said their informer was able to purchase 26 sets of
false IDs -- including Social Security and Immigration and Naturalization
Service resident alien cards.

Juan Moreno Aldama, 30, of the 3500 block of Miami Street in St. Louis, and Jose
Luis Hernandez-Sanchez, 21, of the 3800 block of Fairview Avenue in St. Louis,
are charged with 10 counts each of forgery, a felony.

"We take this very seriously in light of 9-11," said Detective Sgt. Joe Delia.
"This is just an example of how easy it is to get a new identification."

Customers purchasing the new IDs probably used the forged documents to get
legitimate identifications, such as Missouri drivers licenses, Delia said. Many
of them may have been illegal aliens.

Investigators said the suspects, along with others, may have operated here for
three years or more.

Police launched their investigation about six months ago after receiving a tip.
They said an informer met with Hernandez-Sanchez in February at a coffee shop in
Maryland Heights. The informer provided a photo, name and $110. In return, the
suspect gave him a Social Security card and a resident alien card, police said.

They explained that their informer returned in March with a list of 25 names and
photos. Ten were of suspected terrorists, murderers and rapists taken from the
FBI's lists.

On March 26, police said, Hernandez-Sanchez provided the identifications.

Police searched the home of Aldama, whom they described as leader of the
operation. They found hundreds of blank forged federal identifications, blank
California drivers licenses and laminating equipment.

Agents with the FBI, Social Security Administration, INS and St. Louis police
participated in the investigation, which continues. Police are looking for
connections to rings in Chicago and the Southwest, Delia said.

Hernandez-Sanchez and Aldama were being held on $150,000 bail.

LOAD-DATE: March 28, 2002

LANGUAGE: English

NOTES: Reporter Heather Ratcliffe:; E-mail: hratcliffe@post-dispatch.com; Phone:
314-863-2821

GRAPHIC: PHOTO; COLOR PHOTO headshot - (Juan Moreno) Aldama - Described as
leader of operation; (Jose Luis) Hernandez-Sanchez - Police say informer placed
order with him

                  Copyright 2002 St. Louis Post-Dispatch, Inc.


                              90 of 275 DOCUMENTS

                       St. Louis Post-Dispatch (Missouri)

                  April 28, 2002 Sunday Five Star Lift Edition

ILLEGAL IMMIGRANTS SEEK LICENSE TO DRIVE, AND LEGISLATOR FROM KANSAS CITY WANTS
TO HELP;
 LAW SHUTS THEM OUT; SOME CITE SECURITY FEARS

BYLINE: Greg Jonsson Of The Post-Dispatch

SECTION: METRO; Pg. C1

LENGTH: 1186 words


Viridiana doesn't have a drivers license.

And because the 18-year-old illegal immigrant from Mexico can't get one under
state law, she risks being deported every time she drives to and from work at a
St. Ann grocery.

State Rep. Henry C. Rizzo wants to help her get a license.

So does the Missouri House, which recently passed a bill sponsored by Rizzo, a
Kansas City Democrat, that would let illegal immigrants like Viridiana get a
valid license here.

"They're here and they're driving anyway," said Rizzo, who proposed the bill
after being approached by Kansas City police and Hispanics who live in his
district. "We are trying to give them some options and make the streets a little
safer for those out there on them."

Missouri is only the latest in a line of states to grapple with the question of
licensing illegal immigrants. California is working on a bill that would do the
same, while some other states that allow illegal immigrants to get licenses,
such as Tennessee and Virginia, are rethinking their policies.

Backers of the bill say it will make the state's roads safer by getting
immigrants to read the Missouri drivers handbook, take a driving test and obtain
insurance.

Lt. Tim Hull, a spokesman for the Missouri Highway Patrol, couldn't cite
specific numbers, but he said the highway patrol has seen an increase in traffic
violations and accidents involving unlicensed and uninsured illegal immigrants.

But opponents say such bills are just asking for trouble. Giving drivers
licenses to illegal immigrants could weaken national security by allowing some
immigrants to create the illusion of citizenship, they say.

"Drivers licenses are as close as we get to a national ID," said John Keeley of
the Center for Immigration Studies, a group in Washington that advocates
limiting immigration. "While the overwhelming majority (of immigrants) don't
pose a national security threat, I don't think this proposal affords protection
to Americans, but hurts the efforts to shore up national security."

Opponents note that eight of the 19 men in the terrorist attacks on Sept. 11 got
licenses in Virginia after presenting a simple notarized form saying they were
state residents. Consequently, lawmakers in that state are looking to tighten
their licensing laws. Tennessee legislators are also proposing stricter laws
there in response to its reputation as a state where it's easy to get a license.

In Illinois, illegal immigrants can't legally get licenses, but that didn't stop
fraud that some point to as an example of how one legal document can lead to
others. Illinois officials axed a program last year that let some foreign
visitors - most of them students, researchers and their families - get temporary
licenses, because some were using the temporary licenses to get Social Security
cards and then using those cards to get real licenses.

While the vast majority of immigrants in the nation pose no threat, there are
also a few drug dealers, criminals and terrorists looking for easy ways to get
licenses, said Chester Moyer, agent in charge of the Immigration and
Naturalization Service in St. Louis.

He said he worries that those who bother to get licenses if the bill passes will
be those trying to obscure the fact they're here illegally or will try to
establish a fraudulent identity.

"It's really going to complicate things," Moyer said. "One legitimate kind of ID
leads to more, leads to more, leads to more, and pretty soon, they've got an
entire identity established."

And because the laws between states differ so, a state with more open
requirements, like Missouri if Rizzo's bill becomes law, could attract illegal
immigrants, some say.

"People shop around for the easiest license," said Jason King, a spokesman for
the American Association of Motor Vehicle Administrators, which is pushing for
more uniform laws and more sharing of information between states. "If someone
lives in state X and can't get a license, they'll go over to state Y to get
one."

Proponents of the bill are mindful of those concerns, but they say efforts to
license illegal immigrants are just realistic, said Rev. Jack Schuler of Our
Lady of Guadalupe Catholic Church in Cool Valley, part of a group of churches
backing the bill.

"People that are in the country illegally are stimulating the economy," Schuler
said. "They're doing the work other people don't want to do, and that means they
have to get there. Like it or not, they're driving."

In California, proponents of licenses for immigrants echo Schuler, saying the
law is a matter of accepting that illegal immigrants are a integral part of the
state and national economy.

"This area of the country has a huge immigrant population," said Russ Lopez, a
spokesman for California Gov. Gray Davis. "They work here, they live here, they
pay taxes here, and they provide a great service here. We have this reality, and
it's always going to be there."

No one knows how many immigrants are in the United States illegally. Guesses
vary widely, but many estimates put the number at 8.5 million, according to the
Pew Hispanic Center. Lopez said the California law may affect 1 million people.

To deal with security worries, proponents are looking for ways to limit the new
licenses.

In California, where a bill similar to Rizzo's passed just before the terrorist
attacks of Sept. 11, the governor has convened a task force of law enforcement
officials from around the state to address security concerns. They are
considering extensive background checks and some way of identifying illegal
immigrants as such on the licenses.

"The governor is supportive of the bill in concept, but we have to consider
identity theft, and we want it to be palatable for law enforcement," Lopez said.

Rizzo, whose bill augments current law to allow applicants to get a license by
providing a more easily obtained taxpayer identification number instead of
requiring a Social Security number, said the security concerns will be
addressed. The bill is being tweaked in the face of some opposition in the state
Senate, where it sits after the House passed it easily.

Measures will be in place to look into the backgrounds of applicants, possibly
including checking immigrants' driving records in their countries of origin,
said Rizzo, whose district is 27 percent Hispanic. And like some proposals in
California, there may be some indication on the drivers license that the driver
didn't provide a Social Security number to get it.

"We'll do research and security checks," Rizzo said. "This is not a blanket to
hide under."

Rizzo said it's unlikely a legal license would muddle things much for those
trying to identify illegal immigrants. Those who want to hide can already do so
through other means, he said.

"Are we so naive to think they don't have access to a black market for those
documents anyway?" Rizzo said. "Why not give them the option of doing it
legally, with us having the option of doing some background checks, with some
trackability? I'd much rather know if the guy driving next to me is driving
illegally."

The bill is HB1881.

LOAD-DATE: April 28, 2002

LANGUAGE: English

NOTES: Reporter Greg Jonsson:; E-mail: gjonsson@post-dispatch.com; Phone:
314-340-8253

GRAPHIC: PHOTO; Color PHOTO headshot - (State Rep. Henry C.) Rizzo; "They're
here and they're driving anyway"

                  Copyright 2002 St. Louis Post-Dispatch, Inc.


                              91 of 275 DOCUMENTS

                       St. Louis Post-Dispatch (Missouri)

                  May 4, 2002 Saturday Five Star Lift Edition

WHAT'S DRIVING THE OPPOSITION?

SECTION: EDITORIAL; Pg. 30

LENGTH: 437 words


HOMELAND SECURITY

A BILL to make it easier for an illegal alien to get a drivers license may
become the victim of Sept. 11. The measure sailed through the Missouri House but
faces rough seas in the Senate.

The reason the bill is hung up is that the 19 hijackers on Sept. 11 had
legitimate drivers licenses or other forms of identification that allowed them
to move freely before the attack. There's little proof that being denied drivers
licenses would have stopped these men. After all, all but three of the 19 had
valid visas. But the ease with which the 19 were able to get identification has
raised questions about boosting scrutiny and standards for issuing licenses.

House Bill 1811 would ease the rules under which licenses are issued to illegal
immigrants. To get a license, an alien would be allowed to supply the state with
either a Social Security number or an individual taxpayer identification number
from the Internal Revenue Service. Critics argue that those numbers are handed
out too freely, and that the relaxed rule would allow the licenses to fall in
the hands of terrorists.

In reality, the bill is primarily intended to help illegal Mexican immigrants
who come to this country for a better life. When Rep. Henry C. Rizzo, D-Kansas
City, introduced HB1811, he saw it partly as a way to help solve the problem of
unlicensed immigrants who cause traffic accidents and their lack of insurance or
the money to cover the damage to people and property. Mr. Rizzo dismisses
critics who say the bill would cause illegal immigrants to flock to Missouri and
would put more irresponsible immigrant drivers on the road.

"My response is that they're already here," he replies.

Denying aliens drivers licenses in Missouri is no guarantee that they won't
drive without licenses or won't get them in other states. But by issuing drivers
licenses, the state can ensure that the drivers have learned the rules of the
road and passed a driving test. The bill is beneficial because it meets the twin
goals of giving immigrants access to drivers licenses while improving the safety
of the roads.

But the legislation may never get out of committee in the Senate due to national
security fears, however irrational those fears might be. Some police are
comfortable with the bill because they say a license would give them a record of
an illegal immigrant's stay in this country. Moreover, the state's home security
office feels the bill includes safeguards so that licenses don't end up in the
wrong hands. If this proposal is good enough for law enforcement officials, it
should be good enough for lawmakers.

LOAD-DATE: May 4, 2002

LANGUAGE: English

NOTES: EDITORIALS

TYPE: EDITORIAL

                  Copyright 2002 St. Louis Post-Dispatch, Inc.


                              92 of 275 DOCUMENTS

                       St. Louis Post-Dispatch (Missouri)

                    June 21, 2002 Friday Three Star Edition

BAN ON TANK SEARCHES GIVES RISE TO CONCERNS OVER SMUGGLING;
 PROSECUTOR IS CHALLENGING RULING IN CASE INVOLVING BORDER WITH MEXICO

BYLINE: The Associated Press

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. A4

LENGTH: 262 words

DATELINE: SAN DIEGO


Law enforcement officials fear that a federal court ruling banning random
searches of automobile gas tanks at the Mexican border could make it easier to
slip drugs, terrorist weapons and illegal immigrants into the United States.

The chief federal prosecutor in San Diego is challenging the ruling, issued in
January by the 9th U.S. Circuit Court of Appeals.

In a 2-1 decision, the court said inspectors at Western border crossings must
have reasonable suspicion that a motorist is smuggling something in his gas tank
before they can take the vehicle apart.

The ruling has alarmed the Immigration and Naturalization Service and the
Customs Service.

"Terrorists could employ a gas tank to smuggle biological weapons or explosives
across the border, secure in the knowledge that customs would not be able to
inspect that area of their car unless inspectors could develop reasonable
suspicion," U.S. Attorney Patrick O'Toole said in court papers.

Concerns about border security were heightened by the announcement last week of
the arrest of an American suspected of plotting to explode a radioactive "dirty
bomb" in the United States.

Gas-tank smuggling is already the most common form of vehicle smuggling at
Southern California border crossings. Inspectors find an illegal immigrant in a
gas tank once every 10 days at San Diego's two border crossings, Diane Hinckley
of the Immigration and Naturalization Service said in court papers. Since 1997,
drugs have been found in 4,600 gas tanks at California border crossings,
according to the Customs Service.

LOAD-DATE: June 21, 2002

LANGUAGE: English

                  Copyright 2002 St. Louis Post-Dispatch, Inc.


                              93 of 275 DOCUMENTS

                       St. Louis Post-Dispatch (Missouri)

                   June 26, 2002 Wednesday Three Star Edition

CRASH INVOLVING VAN WITH ILLEGAL IMMIGRANTS KILLS 7;
 DRIVER APPARENTLY TRIED TO AVOID CHECKPOINT

BYLINE: The Associated Press

SECTION: NEWS ; Pg. A9

LENGTH: 206 words

DATELINE: SAN DIEGO


A van carrying 33 illegal immigrants smashed head-on into two other vehicles as
it went the wrong way on an interstate with its headlights off, apparently in an
attempt by the driver to avoid an immigration checkpoint. Seven people were
killed and 31 injured.

Loaded with immigrants from Mexico and Brazil, the Dodge van sideswiped two cars
and then collided with a Ford Explorer about 15 miles north of the Mexican
border Monday night, the California Highway Patrol said.

The Explorer flew over a guardrail and down an embankment, killing the driver.
The van then crashed head-on with a Toyota van.

The driver of the Dodge van and four passengers were killed, the Highway Patrol
said. Their identities were not known; most people in the van did not have
identification, Officer Steve Lopez said.

A seventh person died early Tuesday, but it was not clear whether the person had
been in the Dodge van or the Explorer, Lopez said.

Thirty-one people were taken to hospitals.

The remote area, about 45 miles east of San Diego, is commonly used by smugglers
driving vehicles crammed with illegal immigrants.

The Border Patrol maintains a checkpoint on the highway, Interstate 8, about
three miles from the accident site.

LOAD-DATE: June 27, 2002

LANGUAGE: English

GRAPHIC: PHOTO; THE ASSOCIATED PRESS Photo - Rescue workers tend to victims of a
four-vehicle crash Monday night about 45 miles east of San Diego. A van carrying
illegal immigrants was going the wrong way on Interstate 8 with its headlights
off.

                  Copyright 2002 St. Louis Post-Dispatch, Inc.


                              94 of 275 DOCUMENTS

                       St. Louis Post-Dispatch (Missouri)

                 June 26, 2002 Wednesday Five Star Lift Edition

CRASH INVOLVING VAN WITH ILLEGAL IMMIGRANTS KILLS 6;
 DRIVER APPARENTLY TRIED TO AVOID CHECKPOINT

BYLINE: From News Services

SECTION: NEWS ; Pg. A9

LENGTH: 215 words

DATELINE: SAN DIEGO


A van carrying 27 illegal immigrants smashed head-on into two other vehicles as
it went the wrong way on an interstate with its headlights off, apparently in an
attempt by the driver to avoid an immigration checkpoint. Six people were killed
and 31 injured.

The Dodge van, loaded with immigrants from Mexico and Brazil, was traveling west
in the eastbound lanes of Interstate 8 in rural San Diego County when it
sideswiped two cars and then collided with a Ford Explorer. The accident
happened about 15 miles north of the Mexican border Monday night, the California
Highway Patrol said.

The Explorer flew over a guardrail and down an embankment, killing driver Larry
S. Baca, 50, of Albuquerque, N.M. The van then crashed head-on with a Toyota
van.

A passenger in the Explorer was critically injured. The driver of the Dodge van
and four passengers were killed, the Highway Patrol said. Their identities were
not known; most people in the van did not have identification, Officer Steven
Lopez said.

Thirty-one people were taken to hospitals.

The remote area, about 45 miles east of San Diego, is commonly used by smugglers
driving vehicles crammed with illegal immigrants.

The Border Patrol maintains a checkpoint on the highway, about three miles from
the accident site.

LOAD-DATE: June 26, 2002

LANGUAGE: English

GRAPHIC: PHOTO; THE ASSOCIATED PRESS Photo - Rescue workers tend to victims of a
five-vehicle crash Monday night about 45 miles east of San Diego. A van carrying
illegal immigrants was going the wrong way on Interstate 8 with its headlights
off.

                  Copyright 2002 St. Louis Post-Dispatch, Inc.


                              95 of 275 DOCUMENTS

                       St. Louis Post-Dispatch (Missouri)

                 June 26, 2002 Wednesday Five Star Lift Edition

HOLDEN'S OFFICE FIRES MAN WHO WAS AN ILLEGAL IMMIGRANT;
 WORKER'S VISA HAD EXPIRED, AIDES DISCOVER

BYLINE: Bill Bell Jr. Of The Post-Dispatch Jo Mannies Of The Post-Dispatch
Contributed Information For This Report.

SECTION: METRO ; Pg. B1

LENGTH: 208 words

DATELINE: JEFFERSON CITY


An illegal immigrant who worked in Gov. Bob Holden's office was fired Tuesday
after the governor's aides learned that his work visa expired last November.

The employee, Marvin Gonzalez, had been working for the governor as a messenger
since January of last year, at an annual pay of $20,196.

He had been hired at the suggestion of Hugh McVey, the president of the Missouri
AFL-CIO, a source familiar with the situation said Tuesday. McVey had been
unaware of Gonzalez's illegal status, the source added.

McVey, whose daughter attended school with one of Gonzalez's children, had
sought to help the family because the parents had low-paying jobs with no health
benefits, the source said.

Chris Kelly, the governor's spokeswoman, said questions surrounding Gonzalez's
legal status began with an anonymous phone call to Holden's office several weeks
ago.

Gonzalez was placed on administrative leave June 10 while the staff
investigated. Kelly said that when he was hired, Gonzalez had produced the
appropriate documents - a drivers license, a valid Social Security card and a
valid work visa.

"We thought that was the end of it," Kelly said.

But later, Gonzalez's immigration lawyer told Holden's staff that the visa had
expired.

LOAD-DATE: June 26, 2002

LANGUAGE: English

                  Copyright 2002 St. Louis Post-Dispatch, Inc.


                              96 of 275 DOCUMENTS

                       St. Louis Post-Dispatch (Missouri)

                 July 17, 2002 Wednesday Five Star Lift Edition

ILLEGAL IMMIGRATION KEEPS INCREASING, STUDY SAYS

BYLINE: The Associated Press

SECTION: NEWS ; Pg. A6

LENGTH: 103 words

DATELINE: SAN DIEGO


Illegal immigration has continued to rise despite a nine-year effort to seal
parts of the U.S.-Mexico border that has cost hundreds of millions of dollars, a
new study concludes.

The security buildup along the Southwest border also has forced immigra nts to
cross in dangerous, remote areas, increasing the likelihood of death from
exposure and drowning. In addition, it may cause those who enter the country
illegally to stay longer, according to the report by the nonpartisan Public
Policy Institute of California.

The authors planned to present their findings today to Democratic members of
Congress.

LOAD-DATE: July 17, 2002

LANGUAGE: English

                  Copyright 2002 St. Louis Post-Dispatch, Inc.


                              97 of 275 DOCUMENTS

                       St. Louis Post-Dispatch (Missouri)

                 July 23, 2002 Tuesday Early Five Star Edition

U.S. DIGEST

BYLINE: From News Services

SECTION: NEWS ; U.S. Digest Column; Pg. A6

LENGTH: 545 words


TRENTON, N.J.

Governor OKs millions for Camden revitalization

Gov. James E. McGreevey signed a $175 million bill Monday to revitalize the
desperately poor city of Camden. The Camden Board of Education immediately sued
to block a portion of the measure.

The package is designed to build on the city's network of large hospitals and
its Rutgers University campus..

The Board of Education charged that the recovery package violates the state
constitution because it gives the state and city governments control over the
school board in the mostly black and Hispanic city of 80,000.

MIAMI

Gephardt backs legal status for undocumented immigrants

House Minority Leader Richard Gephardt said Monday he plans to introduce a bill
that would grant legal status to millions of undocumented immigrants.

The measure, he said, would legalize immigrants who have lived in the United
States for five years and worked in the country for two years.

"Our proposal will bring undocumented immigrants out of the shadows and into the
light of accountability and greater cooperation in our fight against terrorism,"
Gephardt said at the annual meeting of the National Council of La Raza, a
Hispanic civil rights group. The crowd of about 3,000 gave Gephardt a standing
ovation.

"We are all immigrants unless we're Native Americans," the Missouri Democrat
said.

GRAND RAPIDS, Mich.

Planned Parenthood clinic is second to be hit by gunfire

A shotgun was fired through the front door of a Planned Parenthood clinic early
Monday, the second shooting at a clinic this month. No one was injured in either
incident.

The glass door was shot out at about 3:30 a.m. and shots were fired into the
ceiling and walls, Police Chief Philip Major said. Police have no suspect or
motive. Neither clinic provides abortions.

Authorities are investigating whether the shooting is linked to a similar July 4
incident at an empty Planned Parenthood clinic in Brainerd, about 70 miles away.
No one was arrested in that shooting.

LOS ANGELES

Gray signs emissions law that's toughest in U.S.

Gov. Gray Davis signed a law Monday that would make California the first state
to restrict automobile emissions of carbon dioxide and other greenhouse gases
believed to contribute to global warming.

He predicted other states and the federal government would eventually follow
suit. Automakers waged a multimillion-dollar campaign to fight the bill, which
places restrictions on new cars and light trucks beginning in 2009. They insist
the move will increase the price of vehicles.

FORT LAUDERDALE, Fla.

Doctor says mother won't let son have needed medicine

A doctor filed a medical neglect complaint with state child care workers, saying
a woman won't let her 11-year-old son take a medication that could save his
eyesight.

Dr. Barry Waters said he and the boy's eye specialists recommended the child
take methotrexate for an arthritis-related eye disease. But the boy's mother,
Margie Lacre, decided it posed too much of a risk of side effects, including
lung and liver damage, said Waters, an arthritis specialist.

The doctors contend that side effects from the drug are rare and that the boy
could go blind within months without treatment, Waters told the South Florida
Sun-Sentinel.

LOAD-DATE: July 24, 2002

LANGUAGE: English

GRAPHIC: PHOTO; THE ASSOCIATED PRESS Photo - Firefighter crew boss Dave "Ozzie"
Osborn peers under tree branches while supervising a controlled burn Monday near
Summer Lake, Ore. The Oregon National Guard was called out to help battle the
92,000-acre fire.

                  Copyright 2002 St. Louis Post-Dispatch, Inc.


                              98 of 275 DOCUMENTS

                       St. Louis Post-Dispatch (Missouri)

                    July 28, 2002 Sunday Three Star Edition

ILLEGAL ALIENS' DEATHS SPUR ACTIVIST PATROLS;
 VOLUNTEERS OFFER WATER, FOOD, MEDICAL ASSISTANCE

BYLINE: The Associated Press

SECTION: NEWS ; Pg. A9

LENGTH: 467 words

DATELINE: TUCSON, ARIZ.


Frustrated at the mounting deaths of illegal immigrants in the searing Arizona
desert, a group of activists has begun patrolling to offer water, food and
medical assistance.

At least 91 people have died since October in the U.S. Border Patrol's Tucson
sector, covering most of southern Arizona. More than half of those deaths have
been heat-related.

"It has been a real challenge to figure out how to be most effective in the
desert," said Kittie Ufford-Chase, a volunteer with the Samaritan Patrol. "This
has been a needle-in-a-haystack proposition. It's huge out there."

Fewer than a dozen migrants were found in the first three weeks of the patrols.

The patrol's organizers include several holdovers from the sanctuary movement, a
faith-based effort to help Central Americans fleeing political persecution in
the 1980s. Eight sanctuary members were convicted of conspiracy or other charges
involving illegal entry of aliens.

But Samaritan Patrol organizers say that their operations are strictly
humanitarian and within the law and that their goals are much different.

"It evolved because there were people who were appalled by the almost daily
deaths of migrants trying to find their way into this country," said Rabbi
Joseph Weisenbaum, a sanctuary veteran who helped organize the Samaritan Patrol.
"It began and continues to function as a humanitarian gesture."

Its 120 to 150 volunteers patrol areas where an allied group, Humane Borders,
does not have permanent water stations for immigrants crossing thedesert.

Critics like Wes Bramhall, head of Arizonans for Immigration Control, insist
that the Samaritan Patrol violates federal law by aiding migrants trying to
cross the border from Mexico illegally.

An incident July 9 in which Samaritan Patrol volunteers assisted a couple found
in the desert prompted Bramhall, 81, to request a Border Patrol inquiry.

He says his organization contends that the patrol violated eight felony
provisions, including transporting illegal aliens within the United States.

William Walker, an attorney for the Samaritan Patrol, says, "They're just wrong.
We didn't violate the law, and we don't intend to violate the law."

Three days after the incident, Samaritan Patrol members met with Border Patrol
officials. "The outcome was resolved in a satisfactory way for both sides,"
Border Patrol spokesman Rob Daniels said.

Daniels said he was unaware of any investigation into the group's activities and
said no opinion has been issued on Bramhall's letter. But, he said, leaving
transportation of immigrants to federal authorities is preferable.

"There needs to be a very, very defined line drawn between rendering aid to
someone and actually transporting somebody or furthering their entrance
illegally into the United States," Daniels said.

LOAD-DATE: July 28, 2002

LANGUAGE: English

                  Copyright 2002 St. Louis Post-Dispatch, Inc.


                              99 of 275 DOCUMENTS

                       St. Louis Post-Dispatch (Missouri)

                  July 28, 2002 Sunday Five Star Lift Edition

2 ARE FOUND DEAD IN TRUCK HAULING ILLEGAL IMMIGRANTS

BYLINE: The Associated Press

SECTION: NEWS ; Pg. A9

LENGTH: 194 words

DATELINE: ANNA, TEXAS


Two bodies were found in a tractor-trailer Saturday that had apparently hauled
dozens of illegal immigrants for several hours in 90-degree heat, police said.
Several people were hospitalized for heat-related injuries.

The rig was found parked at a truck stop in this small town about 40 miles north
of Dallas.

"Once our troopers got there, we found two apparent illegal aliens confirmed
dead and one injured," said Texas Department of Public Safety spokesman Tom
Vinger.

The driver and another man in the cab were taken into custody, Vinger said.

Authorities believed it was the same rig that stopped at a Dallas truck stop
earlier in the day, where witnesses said about 40 people poured out, some
fleeing into neighborhoods seeking help.

Authorities said the truck, carrying medical supplies, had traveled to Dallas
from El Paso, - about a 10-hour drive. Some ran to homes asking for water, and
the truck left the scene before police arrived.

At least 14 people were hospitalized for heat exhaustion and possible heat
stroke. Authorities said at least five were in critical condition. It was about
96 degrees Saturday afternoon in the Dallas area.

LOAD-DATE: July 28, 2002

LANGUAGE: English

                  Copyright 2002 St. Louis Post-Dispatch, Inc.


                              100 of 275 DOCUMENTS

                       St. Louis Post-Dispatch (Missouri)

                August 7, 2002 Wednesday Five Star Lift Edition

PROSECUTION OF ILLEGAL ALIENS HAS EXPANDED;
 DEPORTATIONS SHOOT UP IN MISSOURI, KANSAS

BYLINE: Peter Shinkle Of The Post-Dispatch

SECTION: METRO ; Pg. B1

LENGTH: 886 words


The U.S. prosecuted twice as many illegal aliens in 2000 as four years before,
the Justice Department announced Tuesday, putting numbers to a trend of
migration that already was increasingly evident here.

In March, for example, Wentzville police pulled over a van on Interstate 70 that
held 19 people being smuggled cross-country.

In May, 50 inmates of the St. Charles County Jail -- one in six -- were there on
immigration charges. Officials struggled to find enough Spanish-speaking
interpreters to communicate with them.

This month, two people who had sneaked into the country are to be sentenced on
federal convictions for making and selling fake ID cards.

In the four years after a 1996 law beefed up the size of the Immigration and
Naturalization Service, prosecutions for immigration offenses grew from 6,605 to
15,613 nationally, the Bureau of Justice Statistics said.

Half of those charged in 2000 had entered the United States illegally after
being caught at it before. One-fourth were charged with improper entry, 20
percent with smuggling illegal aliens and 5 percent with misusing visas or other
violations, the agency said. Typically, the INS just sends home the first-time
offenders who commit no other crimes.

The INS does not keep state-by-state figures. But its tally for Missouri and
Kansas together showed that the number of undocumented immigrants sent home had
more than quadrupled - to 2,156 from 462 - from fiscal 1994 to fiscal 2000.

In the region covering Illinois, Indiana and Wisconsin, the so-called "removals"
went to 2,209 in 2000 from 603 in 1994.

Nationwide, the INS said it sent home more than 200,000 illegal aliens in fiscal
2000, more than three times the 1994 figure.

Most came from Mexico, according to the agency.

The St. Louis area is attractive for a relatively low cost of living and
availability of jobs, said Ana Beatriz Paul, director of Southside Catholic
Community Services, which provides assistance to Hispanics.

Raymond Bolourtchi, the attorney for a man accused of transporting illegal
aliens, said most are fleeing poverty and despair in Mexico. "They are looking
for a better life," he said.

Many already have family members in the United States.

Paul emphasized that no one really knows how many there are. Her organization
provides its services without asking.

The 2000 census reported there were 7,022 people of Hispanic origin in the city
of St. Louis, and more than twice that many in St. Louis County. But the Mexican
consulate in Chicago says the numbers are really much higher: about 25,000
people of Mexican origin in St. Louis and 40,000 in St. Louis County.

The number of people prosecuted here on immigration charges, while small, is
rising. In 1995, the U.S. attorney's office in St. Louis, which covers the
eastern half of Missouri, prosecuted only one person for illegally re-entering
the country. Last year it prosecuted 14. By June of this year, the number was
already 17.

The number of immigration offenders serving time in federal prisons has risen
ninefold from 1985 to 2000, from 1,593 to 13,676. The Justice Department said
that is partly attributable to stricter sentencing provisions.

Chester Moyer, who heads the INS office here, said his office has been swamped
with cases of illegal immigration and with applications for citizenship. "Every
area that we deal with has increased enormously," he explained.

The INS is being depleted by an unprecedented wave of resignations, with more
than 2,000 of the 15,000 border patrol and immigration inspectors leaving just
since Oct. 1. Primarily, they are seeking better pay and job satisfaction. The
agency is barely able to keep up with new hirings.

Since the terrorist attacks of Sept. 11, the government has stepped up
enforcement of immigration laws, which has meant an "increased willingness" to
prosecute, said Ray Gruender, the U.S. attorney for eastern Missouri.

He said that is especially true in cases of people paid to smuggle in aliens, in
part because it often results in extreme danger for those being transported. Two
Mexicans died in a truck used to smuggle as many as 40 through Texas last month,
authorities said. Two drivers were charged with murder.

The driver of the van containing 19 people in Wentzville, Jewel Wehrheim, told
authorities a man in Chandler, Ariz., told him he could keep the van if he drove
them to Chicago. Wehrheim pleaded guilty April 8 to one count of transporting
aliens for gain and was sentenced in June to 18 months in prison.

Area police said there has been a steady drumbeat of arrests.

On April 24, a police officer found five illegal aliens in a van he stopped on
I-70 in St. Louis County. Officials said the driver had a list of 14 names with
the word "pagado," Spanish for "paid," beside them. The driver pleaded guilty to
transporting illegals and admitted getting paid.

On May 19, police found and pulled over two pickups on I-70 in unrelated
incidents in St. Charles County. Each carried 12 illegal aliens; the drivers
were indicted.

The next day, police stopped a Chevrolet Suburban on I-70, in St. Charles
County, and found 17 undocumented aliens. The driver, who had been removed from
the United States five times previously, pleaded guilty to one count of
illegally transporting illegal aliens.

LOAD-DATE: August 7, 2002

LANGUAGE: English

NOTES: Reporter Peter Shinkle:; E-mail: pshinkle@post-dispatch.com; Phone:
314-621-5804

                  Copyright 2002 St. Louis Post-Dispatch, Inc.


                              101 of 275 DOCUMENTS

                       St. Louis Post-Dispatch (Missouri)

              May 31, 2002 Friday Illinois Five Star Lift Edition

LAW & ORDER

SECTION: METRO; Law & Order Column; Pg. C2

LENGTH: 685 words


EAST ST. LOUIS

Restaurant owner gets 21 months for tax evasion, hiring illegal aliens

Pedro Munoz, 43, of Knoxville, Tenn., majority owner of three Cancun Mexican
Restaurants in Swansea, Collinsville and St. Ann, was sentenced Thursday to 21
months in federal prison for tax evasion and hiring illegal aliens to work at
the restaurants.

Munoz also was fined $40,000 in U.S. District Court at East St. Louis and
ordered to pay his cost of incarceration, estimated at about $1,800 a month.

The restaurants have since closed or reopened under different owners.

Munoz's partner, Erasto Becerril, 38, has served 72 days in jail and was
sentenced earlier to in-home detention. Munoz and Becerril concealed 20 percent
of the restaurants' profits from the government between 1996 and 1998, officials
said.

EAST. ST. LOUIS

Sentence in fatal shooting is changed to probation

A man sentenced to two years in prison on a weapons charge in a fatal shooting
won early release Thursday, but must spend 30 months on probation with extra
rules and scrutiny the first year.

The defendant, Deon D. Rice, 29, of East St. Louis, was accused of shooting
Vincent Cortez Cookwood, 31, of Centreville, nearly two years ago in a street
dispute in East St. Louis.

Although Cookwood bled to death, Rice was never charged with murder. A jury
convicted him in circuit court in January of unlawful use of weapons, and a
judge sentenced to two years in prison.

Circuit Judge Milton S. Wharton changed the sentence Thursday to probation. With
good conduct and credit for time served in jail, Rice wou ld have been eligible
for release in about six months.

BELLEVILLE

Roller hockey fight leads to probation sentence

Kevin B. Ragsdale, 21, of Florissant, was sentenced Thursday in circuit court in
Belleville to two years of probation, ordered to serve 200 hours of community
service and ordered to pay $11,286 in medical bills resulting from a fight
during a roller hockey game.

A jury convicted Ragsdale in April of aggravated battery of another player,
Thomas J. Havel, 23, of Waterloo. The punches were thrown in a game almost a
year ago at the Oak Hill Roller Hockey Arena in Belleville. Havel ended up
hospitalized with a broken jaw and needed 20 stitches to close gashes.

MACOUPIN COUNTY

Couple who let dog starve get 30-day sentences

Carl and Melinda Lindsey of Macoupin County couple were sentenced Thursday to 30
days in jail for allowing their dog to starve to death. They were convicted in
circuit court in Carlinville of cruelty to an animal.

The two also were fined $500 each and ordered to serve 40 hours each of public
service. They are also prohibited from possessing any animal for one year.

Ledy VanKavage, an attorney for the American Society for the Prevention of
Animals, praised the ruling. "It indicates that some judges are starting to take
animal abuse seriously," she said.

VanKavage said the Illinois Department of Agriculture began investigating last
fall and warned the Lindseys they must feed their dog, but when an inspector
returned, the animal had died of malnutrition.

ST. CHARLES

Couple blame binge on stress from ill son, police say

A St. Charles couple damaged a hotel room during a four-day crack and marijuana
binge and said they did it to deal with the stress of handling an autistic son,
police said Thursday.

The wife blamed the boy, 6, for the room's damage, which was put at $895. She
told police that the boy was in the room for a short time.

Kirk R. Griffin, 38, and Dana Griffin, 40, of the 2400 block of Peggy Place in
St. Charles, were charged with one count each of property damage and drug
possession after the binge in a room at the Baymont Inn & Suites, at Fifth
Street and Interstate 70 in St. Charles.

According to police and court records, the couple began their binge on Saturday,
Dana Griffin's 40th birthday. It ended Tuesday afternoon. The couple were to
check out at noon that day, but at 2:30 p.m., a manager went to the room and
found Kirk Griffin lying on the bed, drug paraphernalia in plain view and the
room trashed.

LOAD-DATE: May 31, 2002

LANGUAGE: English

                  Copyright 2002 St. Louis Post-Dispatch, Inc.


                              102 of 275 DOCUMENTS

                       St. Louis Post-Dispatch (Missouri)

                January 3, 2002 Thursday Five Star Lift Edition

BRUISED TYSON GIVES ITS CEO $2.1 MILLION BONUS ;
 COMPANY'S PROBLEMS IN LAST YEAR RANGED FROM BUYOUTS TO INDICTMENTS

BYLINE: The Associated Press

SECTION: BUSINESS; Pg. C2

LENGTH: 292 words

DATELINE: SPRINGDALE, ARK.


Tyson Foods Inc. awarded its chief executive a $2.1 million bonus for the latest
fiscal year, despite company troubles over the purchase of meatpacker IBP and a
federal indictment accusing it of smuggling illegal aliens.

In a filing Wednesday with the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission,
Springdale-based Tyson Foods said it awarded Chief Executive John Tyson a $2.1
million bonus on top of his $650,000 salary for the fiscal year that ended Sept.
29.

The bonus comes in a year that Tyson had troubles ranging from buyouts to
indictments. John Tyson got no bonus for the previous fiscal year.

Tyson Foods' $3.2 billion acquisition of IBP Inc. in September made Tyson the
largest meat producer in the world. The longtime leading poultry producer now
controls 28 percent of the U.S. beef market, 25 percent of the chicken market
and 18 percent of the pork market.

Initially, Tyson accused South Dakota-based IBP of failing to fully disclose its
financial condition and tried to cancel the acquisition. IBP sued, and a federal
judge in Delaware ordered Tyson to fulfill its obligation to buy the meatpacker.

In December, a federal indictment in Tennessee accused the company and six of
its managers of conspiring to smuggle illegal aliens into the country.

The defendants are charged with conspiring to import illegal immigrants to work
at 15 Tyson plants, including ones in Noel and Sedalia, Mo., as well as in
Alabama, Indiana, Kentucky, Mississippi, North Carolina, Tennessee, Texas and
Virginia.

Tyson Foods has denied the charges, saying any wrongdoing that may have been
done by employees was done on their own.

Tyson announced Wednesday that its annual shareholders' meeting will be Feb. 1
in Fayetteville, Ark.

LOAD-DATE: January 3, 2002

LANGUAGE: English

                  Copyright 2002 St. Louis Post-Dispatch, Inc.


                              103 of 275 DOCUMENTS

                       St. Louis Post-Dispatch (Missouri)

                January 9, 2002 Wednesday Five Star Lift Edition

NO CORPORATE CONSPIRACY TO SMUGGLE ILLEGAL ALIENS

BYLINE: Ken Kimbro

SECTION: EDITORIAL; Commentary Column; Pg. B7

LENGTH: 762 words


TYSON FOODS

Tyson Foods has become the nation's largest provider of poultry, beef and pork
by operating safely, responsibly and efficiently. Everyday we work to ensure
compliance with federal, state and local regulations, while providing 120,000
people in the United States with good-paying jobs and benefits, regardless of
ethnic origin. We take issues of employment verification very seriously and have
routinely worked with the government to ensure responsible corporate behavior
throughout our operations.

Recent articles and editorials following the indictment of Tyson Foods by the
U.S. Justice Department, however, have reported at face value the government's
allegations that the company "conspired to smuggle illegal immigrants" to work
in Tyson processing plants. Fairness requires a much closer look at both Tyson's
and the DOJ's actions.

First, managers at three (not 15, as has been reported) of our plants apparently
did take the bait of a government "sting" operation, accepting the offers of
undercover federal agents to "recruit" and deliver illegally documented workers.
This is not, however, proof of a company "conspiracy" -- particularly when
managers at two other plants refused the same offers made to them and when, at
the time, we operated more than 50 plants. Moreover, at the same time one arm of
DOJ was investigating Tyson for alleged "conspiracy" to smuggle undocumented
workers, another arm -- the Division of Civil Rights -- was investigating claims
at one of our Missouri plants that we were scrutinizing the documents of
Hispanic workers too closely. While this may prove that DOJ's right hand doesn't
know what the left hand is doing, it surely disproves any allegations of a
"conspiracy" on our part.

Second, news reports have failed to note that Tyson Foods was one of the first
and largest voluntary participants in the INS's computerized employment document
verification program, known as Basic Pilot. Indeed, at about the time the DOJ
was initiating its investigation, we learned of some potential activity
involving false documents in one of our Alabama plants. We immediately and
voluntarily self-reported this information to INS and worked with it to see if
we could catch any employees engaging in the suspected illegal activity -- the
very type of activity by lower-level employees that federal prosecutors now have
blamed on the company as a whole.

Third, the government is taking a novel approach to assessing penalties that
should send shivers down the spine of every business in America that employs
Hispanic workers. Basically, the government has made a grossly inaccurate
assumption about Hispanic workers and the percentage of them who are illegal.
Further, the government assumes, because these workers are "illegal," we pay
them less than we would have to pay other workers (again, false). Therefore,
using a questionable application of the forfeiture statute, the government
maintains that Tyson should forfeit excess profits earned as a result of this
alleged activity. In the history of immigration enforcement, the largest fine
ever levied is $1.9 million. Yet, using new "forfeiture" math, the prosecutor is
seeking many, many times this amount.

Finally, the way in which the government conducted this investigation raises
alarming questions about the attitude toward and the treatment of immigrants in
the U.S. The most egregious claim throughout this process has been that we
engaged in "smuggling." While a handful of plant managers accepted an illegal
offer from undercover agents, not one was involved in the "smuggling" of illegal
immigrants. If any smuggling occurred at all, it was done by the government's
undercover agents.

One has to ask, why is the U.S. government spending time, money and manpower
enticing poor immigrants to cross our border, helping to provide them with
forged documentation and then entrapping the companies willing to provide them
jobs? Why is one branch of the government targeting Hispanic workers and the
companies that employ them, while the president is proposing an amnesty program
aimed at breaking down the barriers to legal entry and employment?

At Tyson Foods, we have reaffirmed our commitment to work diligently to ensure
corporate compliance with all federal, state and local laws and regulations.
While federal prosecutors may have "stung" three of our plant managers, we
believe a fair hearing of the facts of this case will vindicate our company. We
only hope that the government's claims and actions will receive further scrutiny
as well.

LOAD-DATE: January 9, 2002

LANGUAGE: English

NOTES: COMMENTARY; Ken Kimbro is senior vice president of human resources at
Tyson Foods Inc., Springdale, Ark.

                  Copyright 2002 St. Louis Post-Dispatch, Inc.


                              104 of 275 DOCUMENTS

                       St. Louis Post-Dispatch (Missouri)

             September 20, 2000, Wednesday, FIVE STAR LIFT EDITION

SENATE REVIVES BILL TO INCREASE VISAS FOR HIGHLY SKILLED WORKERS;
DEMOCRATIC AMENDMENTS COULD TIE UP THE MEASURE

BYLINE: The Associated Press

SECTION: NEWS, Pg. A11

LENGTH: 458 words

DATELINE: WASHINGTONLEGISLATION; HOUSE BILL; H1B; VISAS; SKILLED; IMMIGRANTS


The Senate revived legislation Tuesday to let computer software and other
high-tech companies bring in more foreign workers. The measure still faces high
hurdles: Some lawmakers are determined to tie it to other immigration issues.

Senators decided 97-1 to force a vote this week on whether they should consider
the high-tech worker visa bill known as H1B. Only Sen. Ernest Hollings, D-S.C.,
voted against the bill.

H1B visas allow skilled workers to enter the United States for specified periods
to do specific jobs for which employers say American workers are unavailable.

The technology industry says the need is as high as 300,000 workers a year.
Labor unions say the high-tech industry recruits overseas mainly to hire a less
expensive work force.

Democrats want amendments, however, to deal with other immigration questions,
mainly involving Hispanics. Republicans say that if Democrats succeed, it
probably will kill the measure for the year.

Negotiations are under way. "We're still talking," said John Czwartacki,
spokesman for Senate Majority Leader Trent Lott, R-Miss.

"We're taking it one step at a time," said Ranit Schmelzer, spokesman for
Minority Leader Tom Daschle, D-S.D.

President Bill Clinton predicted Saturday that Congress would pass the bill and
did not mention linkages to other immigration issues.

The House has yet to consider the H1B visa bill, but "if the Senate can pull a
clean H1B bill through, I think it would facilitate our ability in the House,"
said House Majority Leader Dick Armey, R-Texas.

The House members pushed through three immigration bills Tuesday, including one
to stop what some lawmakers called unfair deportation of aliens for past crimes.

In 1996, Congress broadened the number of crimes that would trigger deportation
and included retroactivity provisions, which led to the deportation of some
noncitizens who had steered clear of trouble after earlier minor brushes with
the law.

"Under current law, many legal residents can be deported for minor offenses that
were not deportable offenses when they pled guilty to them," said Rep. Martin
Frost, D-Texas, a supporter of fixing the 1996 law. "The bill will bring
sensible relief for those who have paid for past infractions and will give
people a chance to remain in the country."

The bill, which now goes to the Senate, also would allow aliens deported for
minor offenses under the 1996 law to appeal for the right to return.

The House also decided to make it easier for foreign-born adoptees to get
American citizenship, including automatic citizenship for some, and extended
until 2003 a program that sets aside 10,000 visas a year for foreign religious
workers to conduct activities in the United States.

LOAD-DATE: November 2, 2000

LANGUAGE: English

                  Copyright 2000 St. Louis Post-Dispatch, Inc.


                              105 of 275 DOCUMENTS

                       St. Louis Post-Dispatch (Missouri)

                 August 10, 2001 Friday Five Star Lift Edition

U.S., MEXICAN LEADERS FIND COMMON GROUND ON IMMIGRATION PROPOSALS ;
 GUEST WORKER PROGRAM WOULD MATCH MIGRANTS WITH EMPLOYERS' NEEDS

BYLINE: From News Services

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. A2

LENGTH: 421 words

DATELINE: WASHINGTON


U.S. and Mexican leaders reached broad agreement Thursday on the principles
behind proposals to streamline Mexican immigration into the United States,
officials from both countries said.

The proposals include a guest worker program that would match U.S. employers
hungry for labor with Mexican workers who might otherwise risk their lives by
slipping across the border to work illegally in the United States.

Secretary of State Colin Powell and Attorney General John Ashcroft discussed the
proposals with Mexican Foreign Minister Jorge Castaneda and Interior Minister
Santiago Creel at the State Department on Thursday.

The migration issue has been a sore point in cross-border ties for years. The
meeting was partly aimed at laying the groundwork for talks next month in
Washington between President George W. Bush and Mexican President Vicente Fox.

"We want to make sure that we have a humane approach to the solution of the
migration challenge," Powell said. "We want to make sure that migration to the
United States from Mexico is safe, legal, orderly and dignified."

Whatever reforms are instituted, Powell said they must respect "the enormously
valuable role that Mexican immigrants continue to play in helping us in building
our nation."

At the same time, he said the administration wants to ensure that the reforms do
not disadvantage American workers.

Officials indicated that there was no discussion on the number of Mexicans who
might benefit from reforms.

Fox said in late July that all Mexicans working in the United States, estimated
at 3 million, should be legalized in recognition of their contribution to the
U.S. economy.

Mexican workers, he said, "shouldn't have to walk around like criminals or stay
hidden."

Another Mexican concern is the increasing number of would-be migrants who die
from exposure while attempting to cross the border or suffer mistreatment once
they reach U.S. soil.

Anti-immigrant groups and many members of Congress are opposed to any change
beyond allowing some Mexicans to stay as temporary laborers.

Granting legal residency to all Mexican immigrants now living in the United
States is "very bad policy," says Sen. Phil Gramm, a Republican from Bush's home
state of Texas. "It rewards lawlessness."

The two Mexican officials at Thursday's meeting highlighted what they said were
the important steps being taken in the defense of Mexican workers. Ashcroft said
progress has been made recently in border safety as well as curtailing illegal
drug trafficking.

LOAD-DATE: August 10, 2001

LANGUAGE: English

GRAPHIC: PHOTO; Photo from AGENCE FRANCE-PRESSE - Jorge Castaneda (left),
Mexican foreign minister, speaks to reporters as Secretary of State Colin Powell
(center) and Attorney General John Ashcroft look on after meetings at the State
Department in Washington Thursday.

                  Copyright 2001 St. Louis Post-Dispatch, Inc.


                              106 of 275 DOCUMENTS

                       St. Louis Post-Dispatch (Missouri)

                   October 21, 2001 Sunday Three Star Edition

FOREIGN WORKERS SEE STEPPED-UP INS SCRUTINY;
 FROM DOCTORS TO ATHLETES, VISITORS SHOULD PREPARE FOR CLOSER REVIEWS, DELAYS

BYLINE: Virgina Baldwin Gilbert Of The Post-Dispatch

SECTION: BUSINESS; Pg. F1

LENGTH: 1553 words


Jason Gudmundson knows firsthand what the U.S. Immigration and Naturalization
Service means by a "heightened state of alert" at the Canadian border since the
terrorist attacks last month.

Gudmundson, a native of Manitoba, was bound for the Missouri River Otters hockey
training camp in St. Peters when he was turned back at a U.S. checkpoint. The
hockey teams he played for last year had kept a document that should have been
stapled to his passport.

The agent noted Gudmundson's attached visitors visa and accused him of working
in the United States illegally last season. What's more, if Gudmundson could not
prove that he had obtained the proper work visa, he would be barred from
entering the United States for three years.

So, he stopped at the roadside in no-man's land between Canadian and U.S.
checkpoints. He made several cell-phone calls before the president of his latest
team, the Memphis RiverKings, faxed the missing document to the U.S. checkpoint.

"I was sweating it for a while," Gudmundson said.

In four years playing hockey for a U.S. college and two years with minor-league
teams, he hadn't experienced difficulty entering the United States.

"They're checking more tightly now," he said. "They don't just give you the
benefit of the doubt."

Elaine Comis, a spokeswoman for the INS in Washington, said procedures,
processes and policies for obtaining work visas have not changed since the
terrorist attacks last month. INS agents always have checked to see that
employers had bona fide work for an applicant and that the applicant had the
necessary education and qualifications for the job, she said.

But employers and attorneys for foreign nationals disagree. They see increased
scrutiny of requests to work or to visit the United States on business.

"It's nothing overt," said Crystal Williams, a spokeswoman for the American
Immigration Lawyers Association, based in Washington. "People are encountering
problems that they didn't encounter before. It may be tied to Sept. 11, but it
may be something else and just seems coincidental."

Andrea Schwartz, an immigration attorney representing several companies and
individuals, has maintained an office in Chesterfield since she moved to San
Francisco five years ago. "I've seen a lot of requests for additional
information that seemed inappropriate," Schwartz said, including asking a
scientist with a medical degree and a doctoral degree for an original copy of
her bachelor's degree diploma.

Attorneys with the Immigration Lawyers Association are advising clients to "put
together more evidence, be prepared to jump through more hoops and show more
proof of whatever the point is," Williams said.

"People in the INS are feeling they're being blamed" for terrorists getting into
the country, Williams said. "The inclination is to be very, very conservative in
how you give out those visas."

Close scrutiny

Through embassies and consulates around the world, the State Department issues
visas for visitors, students and temporary workers entering the United States.
But the INS processes the paperwork and staffs the checkpoints.

Because of the terrorist attacks and the continuing threats from abroad, several
bills are pending in Congress to tighten procedures for allowing people into the
country and to keep better track of them while they're here.

Most of the lawyers and the employers declined to identify people or companies
by name while they are trying to get approval. But they cited several examples:

Julian Rachlin, a Russian violinist who lives in Germany, had to cancel an
appearance with the St. Louis Symphony in late September because he couldn't get
his visa processed in time.

An information-systems expert born in India who holds a British passport had no
trouble two years ago getting a visa to work for a St. Louis-based company. Now,
he has received a promotion, but the INS is balking at approving an amendment to
his paperwork. He might lose his job if he can't convince immigration officials
that he has the proper visa.

A company from Turkey that has done business in the United States for years has
been asked for the first time to submit payroll records and other documents to
prove that it's a legitimate company that employs and pays the people it says it
does.

An scientist from India, bound for a scientific conference at the Donald
Danforth Plant Science Center in Creve Coeur, had to ask the center to send a
more detailed invitation so he could prove his reasons for wanting to visit the
United States. Now, the center's executives worry about getting credentials for
other scientists to attend upcoming conferences.

Another scientist, born in China but a citizen of Denmark, has been waiting
since January for approval to conduct research in the United States under a
National Institutes of Health grant. In the past month, the requests for
information have increased, said Schwartz, the attorney with a Creve Coeur
office. Though the woman's two doctoral degrees have been certified as
equivalent by U.S. institutions, the INS sent more questions about her
educational background.

"They're asking for repetitive information that is clearly already in their
files," Schwartz said.

Also, she noted an increase in typographical errors in the paperwork processed
by INS personnel: a visa issued for 2003 instead of this year, an incorrectly
typed birthdate.

"I think they're understaffed, with no ability to accommodate the greater
workload," Schwartz said.

Last week, immigration lawyers and their clients expressed "a collective sigh"
of frustration, Williams said. INS processing centers around the country stopped
accepting mail for three days after workers at the East Coast processing center
in Vermont found a package with white powder, which they feared contained
anthrax spores.

"We heard about it because our members got calls from Federal Express that our
packages were being turned away," Williams said.

An spokeswoman for the INS confirmed the mail shutdown. Centers were closed Oct.
13-15 in Dallas; Lincoln, Neb.; and Laguna Nigel, Calif. The center north of St.
Albans, Vt., began accepting mail again Tuesday, said Callie Gagnon, spokeswoman
for the eastern regional INS office. "They have field guidance on mail-handling
procedures in place. And the tests (of the white powder) came back negative."

Gagnon said INS employees were taking the increased tension in stride. "We're in
a heightened state of alert along our borders, but everyone is pitching in. .o.o
I don't see morale waning. I see everybody wanting to do what they can. They're
willing to work together, and they're working hard."

Game plan

Besides attending to the usual details of running a minor-league team, River
Otters coach Mark Reeds must be versed in immigration procedures. The team,
which plays at the Family Arena in St. Charles, has approval for 16 work visas
for foreign nationals on a team of 20 players, though they're not all being
used. The present roster includes 13 Canadians, six Americans and one European,
whose paperwork is pending.

Players with a contract get temporary work visas that expire at the end of
postseason play in May or June. Players trying out -- they don't have a contract
when they enter the United States -- must get a visitors document, called a B1
visa.

After they make the team, the office applies for the work visa. Players that
don't make the cut -- nine Canadians this year -- must head back home before
their 30-day visitors visas expire and turn them in at the border.

Reeds, a native of Toronto, got a green card, a more permanent immigrant-worker
status, when he played for the St. Louis Blues. He spent six of his eight
National Hockey League seasons with the Blues and rejoined the organization's
farm system as a player-coach in 1992.

Now, he doesn't worry so much about immigration documents. "I married an
American," he said.

Gudmundson stands among the players who survived the cut, and he is playing
right wing for the Otters this season.

As soon as his temporary-work visa comes in, Gudmundson said, "I'm going to
staple it to my passport myself so it's there the next time I come across."

==================

Coming to America

Foreign nationals coming to the United States for business or work obtain visas
typically in these categories:

* B1, for tourists and business travelers. Immigration officials appear to
require more proof that these people intend to return home at the end of their
business or vacation.

* H2A, for farm workers.

* H2B, for other temporary seasonal workers employed by landscapers, ski
resorts, construction trades and minor-league teams. Lawyers say these visas are
a lot of trouble to obtain, considering the short period for which they are
valid.

* H1B, for highly skilled technical workers and other professionals whose jobs
require a specialized degree. These include systems engineers, software
developers, researchers and teachers.

* L, for employees of multinational corporations who transfer from an overseas
branch to a U.S. headquarters or branch.

* P, for people of international renown, such as musicians, major-league
athletes, and many entertainers and their retinues.

* O, for people of extraordinary ability: the superstars of movies, sports,
music, science and business.

LOAD-DATE: October 21, 2001

LANGUAGE: English

NOTES: Reporter Virginia Baldwin Gilbert:; E-mail: vgilbert@post-dispatch.com;
Phone: 314-340-8345

GRAPHIC: PHOTO; (1)Color Photo by WENDI FITZGERALD / POST-DISPATCH - Jason
Gudmundson of the Missouri River Otters, a team in the United Hockey League,
joined the squad for training camp after a difficult time getting through a U.S.
border checkpoint.; (2) Photo Headshot - Mark Reeds - river Otters coach;

                  Copyright 2001 St. Louis Post-Dispatch, Inc.


                              107 of 275 DOCUMENTS

                       St. Louis Post-Dispatch (Missouri)

                 October 21, 2001 Sunday Five Star Lift Edition

FOREIGN WORKERS SEE STEPPED-UP FEDERAL SCRUTINY;
 FROM DOCTORS TO ATHLETES, VISITORS SHOULD PREPARE FOR CLOSER INS REVIEWS,
DELAYS

BYLINE: Virginia Baldwin Gilbert Of The Post-Dispatch

SECTION: BUSINESS; Pg. F1

LENGTH: 1510 words


Jason Gudmundson knows firsthand what the U.S. Immigration and Naturalization
Service means by a "heightened state of alert" at the Canadian border since the
terrorist attacks last month.

Gudmundson, a native of Manitoba, was bound for the Missouri River Otters hockey
training camp in St. Peters when he was turned back at a U.S. checkpoint. The
hockey teams he played for last year had kept a document that should have been
stapled to his passport.

The agent noted Gudmundson's attached visitors visa and accused him of working
in the United States illegally last season. What's more, if Gudmundson could not
prove that he had obtained the proper work visa, he would be barred from
entering the United States for three years.

So, he stopped at the roadside in no-man's land between Canadian and U.S.
checkpoints. He made several cell-phone calls before the president of his latest
team, the Memphis RiverKings, faxed the missing document to the U.S. checkpoint.

"I was sweating it for a while," Gudmundson said.

In four years playing hockey for a U.S. college and two years with minor-league
teams, he hadn't experienced difficulty entering the United States.

"They're checking more tightly now," he said. "They don't just give you benefit
of the doubt."

Elaine Comis, a spokeswoman for the INS in Washington, said procedures,
processes and policies for obtaining work visas have not changed since the
terrorist attacks last month. INS agents always have checked to see that
employers had bona fide work for an applicant and that the applicant had the
necessary education and qualifications for the job, she said.

But employers and attorneys for foreign nationals disagree. They see increased
scrutiny of requests to work or to visit the United States on business.

"It's nothing overt," said Crystal Williams, a spokeswoman for the American
Immigration Lawyers Association, based in Washington. "People are encountering
problems that they didn't encounter before. It may be tied to Sept. 11, but it
may be something else and just seems coincidental."

Andrea Schwartz, an immigration attorney representing several companies and
individuals, has maintained an office in Chesterfield since she moved to San
Francisco five years ago. "I've seen a lot of requests for additional
information that seemed inappropriate," Schwartz said, including asking a
scientist with a medical degree and a doctoral degree for an original copy of
her bachelor's degree diploma.

Attorneys with the Immigration Lawyers Association are advising clients to "put
together more evidence, be prepared to jump through more hoops and show more
proof of whatever the point is," Williams said.

"People in the INS are feeling they're being blamed" for terrorists getting into
the country, Williams said. "The inclination is to be very, very conservative in
how you give out those visas."

Close scrutiny

Through embassies and consulates around the world, the State Department issues
visas for visitors, students and workers entering the United States. But the INS
processes the paperwork and staffs the checkpoints.

Because of the terrorist attacks and the continuing threats from abroad, several
bills are pending in Congress to tighten procedures for allowing people into the
country and to keep better track of them while they're here.

Most of the lawyers and the employers declined to identify people or companies
by name while they are trying to get approval. But they cited examples:

* Julian Rachlin, a Russian violinist who lives in Germany, had to cancel an
appearance with the St. Louis Symphony in late September because he couldn't get
his visa processed in time.

* An information-systems expert born in India who holds a British passport had
no trouble two years ago getting a visa to work for a St. Louis-based company.
Now, he has received a promotion, but the INS is balking at approving an
amendment to his paperwork. He might lose his job if he can't convince officials
that he has the proper visa.

* A company from Turkey that has done business in the United States for years
has been asked for the first time to submit payroll records and other documents
to prove that it's a legitimate company that employs and pays the people it says
it does.

* A scientist from India, bound for a scientific conference at the Donald
Danforth Plant Science Center in Creve Coeur, had to ask the center to send a
more detailed invitation so he could prove his reasons for wanting to visit the
United States.

* Another scientist, born in China but a citizen of Denmark, has been waiting
since January for approval to conduct research in the United St ates under a
National Institutes of Health grant. In the past month, the requests for
information have increased, said Schwartz, the attorney with a Creve Coeur
office. Though the woman's two doctoral degrees have been certified as
equivalent by U.S. institutions, the INS sent more questions about her
educational background.

"They're asking for repetitive information that is clearly already in their
files," Schwartz said. Also, she noted an increase in typographical errors in
the INS paperwork.

"I think they're understaffed, with no ability to accommodate the greater
workload," she said.

Last week, immigration lawyers and their clients expressed "a collective sigh"
of frustration, Williams said. INS processing centers around the country stopped
accepting mail for three days after workers at the East Coast processing center
in Vermont found a package with white powder, which they feared contained
anthrax spores.

"We heard about it because our members got calls from Federal Express that our
packages were being turned away," Williams said.

An spokeswoman for the INS confirmed the mail shutdown. Centers were closed Oct.
13-15 in Dallas; Lincoln, Neb.; and Laguna Nigel, Calif. The center north of St.
Albans, Vt., began accepting mail again Tuesday, said Callie Gagnon, spokeswoman
for the eastern regional INS office. "They have field guidance on mail-handling
procedures in place. And the tests (of the white powder) came back negative."

Gagnon said INS employees were taking the increased tension in stride. "We're in
a heightened state of alert along our borders, but everyone is pitching in. . .
. I don't see morale waning. I see everybody wanting to do what they can.
They're willing to work together, and they're working hard."

Game plan

Besides attending to the usual details of running a minor-league team, River
Otters coach Mark Reeds must be versed in immigration procedures. The team,
which plays at the Family Arena in St. Charles, has approval for 16 work visas
for foreign nationals on a team of 20 players, though they're not all being
used. The present roster includes 13 Canadians, six Americans and one European,
whose paperwork is pending.

Players with a contract get temporary work visas that expire at the end of
postseason play in May or June. Players trying out -- they don't have a contract
when they enter the United States -- must get a visitors document, called a B1
visa.

After they make the team, the office applies for the work visa. Players that
don't make the cut -- nine Canadians this year -- must head back home before
their 30-day visitors visas expire and turn them in at the border.

Reeds, a native of Toronto, got a green card, a more permanent immigrant-worker
status, when he played for the St. Louis Blues. He spent six of his eight
National Hockey League seasons with the Blues and rejoined the organization's
farm system as a player-coach in 1992. Now, he doesn't worry so much about
immigration documents. "I married an American," he said.

Gudmundson stands among the players who survived the cut, and he is playing
right wing for the Otters this season.

As soon as his temporary-work visa comes in, Gudmundson said, "I'm going to
staple it to my passport myself so it's there the next time I come across."

========

Coming to America

Foreign nationals coming to the United States for business or work obtain visas
typically in these categories:

* B1, for tourists and business travelers. Immigration officials appear to
require more proof that these people intend to return home at the end of their
business or vacation.

* H2A, for farm workers.

* H2B, for other temporary seasonal workers employed by landscapers, ski
resorts, construction trades and minor-league teams. Lawyers say these visas are
a lot of trouble to obtain, considering the short period for which they are
valid.

* H1B, for highly skilled technical workers and other professionals whose jobs
require a specialized degree. These include systems engineers, software
developers, researchers and teachers.

* L, for employees of multinational corporations who transfer from an overseas
branch to a U.S. headquarters or branch.

* P, for people of international renown, such as musicians, major-league
athletes, and many entertainers and their retinues.

* O, for people of extraordinary ability: the superstars of movies, sports,
music, science and business.

LOAD-DATE: October 21, 2001

LANGUAGE: English

NOTES: Reporter Virginia Baldwin Gilbert:; E-mail: vgilbert@post-dispatch.com;
Phone: 314-340-8345

GRAPHIC: PHOTO; PHOTO by WENDI FITZGERALD / POST-DISPATCH - Jason Gudmundson of
the Missouri River Otters, a team in the United Hockey League, joined the squad
for training camp after a difficult time getting through a U.S. border
checkpoint.

                  Copyright 2001 St. Louis Post-Dispatch, Inc.


                              108 of 275 DOCUMENTS

                       St. Louis Post-Dispatch (Missouri)

                 January 28, 2002 Monday Five Star Lift Edition

LAW & ORDER

BYLINE: Valerie Schremp and Susan Weich

SECTION: ST. CHARLES COUNTY POST; Law & Order Column; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 1014 words


PORTAGE DES SIOUX

Wood River woman is charged with stealing

Norine L. Pikey, 46, of Wood River, was charged with stealing after police said
that on Dec. 17 she went into Kaki's Bar & Grill in Portage des Sioux and stole
$1,565.80 in cash. The St. Charles Sheriff's Department said she entered the bar
through a back-office window she had unlocked earlier while at the bar and stole
a cash box, a register drawer, a bank deposit bag and a plastic trash can. She
confessed to the crime and returned $1,087.20 of the money to police. Her bond
was set at $20,000.

ST. CHARLES

Traffic stop yields van full of illegal aliens

A routine traffic stop by a St. Charles patrol officer revealed a van full of
illegal aliens, police say.

On Jan. 19, Officer Grant Jansen stopped a 1987 Ford Aerostar van with Arizona
plates in the eastbound lanes of Interstate 70, just west of the Earth City
Expressway exit. The driver and the passenger of the car were from Arizona, but
neither owned the van. The men provided conflicting stories about the reason
they were in St. Louis, so Jansen asked them if he could search the vehicle.

They agreed, and Jansen found 10 illegal aliens - five women and five men - in
the back of the van. The group had been hidden by the dark tinted windows on the
van. The driver admitted that he was transporting the people to Washington,
D.C., for an undetermined amount of money. An agent with the Immigration and
Naturalization Services responded to the scene, and all of the occupants of the
van were escorted to the police station.

Further investigation revealed that the driver and front-seat passenger had
prior arrests for drug trafficking. The driver also is a previously deported
felon who had served federal time for drug trafficking, police say. The driver
could face a 20-year federal prison sentence if convicted of harboring and
transporting illegal aliens.

Chester Moyer, agent in charge for the INS, said that all 12 people were being
held by the INS in jails scattered around the state.

ST. CHARLES COUNTY

Man gets 5 years in break-in and assault

A man found guilty of breaking into a home with two others and assaulting four
men inside with pipes and pieces of lumber was sentenced Friday to five years in
prison.

St. Charles Circuit Court Judge Lucy Rauch sentenced Orlando Ray, 29, of the
7200 block of Fox Chase Drive in St. Charles, after a jury found him guilty in
November of one count of burglary, three counts of assault and three counts of
armed criminal action.

After Ray heard the verdict and a bailiff came to take him to jail, prosecutors
said he elbowed the bailiff in the chest and struggled as another bailiff came
to handcuff him. Ray faces one count of assaulting a law-enforcement officer, a
misdemeanor, after that incident.

The original assault happened on Aug. 14, 2000. Ray and two others broke into a
home in the 2500 block of North River Road, after a confrontation a day or two
before. Ray's brother, DaJuan Ray, 21, also faces several charges in the case,
and investigators were trying to find a third man believed to have been
involved. The four victims suffered injuries ranging from bruises, a cracked
skull, a broken nose and a spleen injury.

ST. CHARLES COUNTY

Mother of teen settles wrongful-death lawsuit

The mother of Rebekah Inahara-Higgs, 15, of St. Charles, has settled a
wrongful-death lawsuit filed against Kendra Mertell, 16, who was the driver of a
car involved in an accident in which Inahara-Higgs was killed.

The settlement, which was filed this month by Elizabeth Higgs, says that Mertel
will pay up to $25,000 for claims and damages. Inahara-Higgs, of the 100 block
of South Seventh Street in St. Charles, was killed Aug. 31, 2001, in an accident
on Interstate 70 one mile west of Mid Rivers Mall Drive. She was one of three
passengers in a 1993 Hyundai Excel driven by Mertell, of O'Fallon. Mertell was
westbound on the highway about 9:20 p.m. when she attempted to pass another
vehicle on the right but could not get around it.

Her car then moved back to the left, and she lost control, driving off the left
side of the road and hitting the median wall. The car overturned several times,
coming to rest on its wheels.

O'FALLON

Ex-roofing salesmen face charges of stealing

Two former salesmen for the Show Me Construction & Roofing Co. in O'Fallon were
charged with stealing, after police say they had customers write checks and then
cashed the checks for themselves.

John E. Bishop, 35, and Gregory G. Griffith, 34, both of the 3600 block of Harry
S. Truman Boulevard in St. Charles, were charged Thursday.

Police said that Bishop had a homeowner write a check for $3,300 made payable to
the owner of the construction company, J. Bishop. The actual owner of the
company, Anthony Gilmore, told police that Bishop is not an owner of the company
and that the money was never paid to the company.

Police said that Griffith had one woman write three checks totaling $10,758.54
and had her make them out to him.

Griffith's bond was set at $10,000 and Bishop's at $5,000.

ST. PETERS

Man who stole before faces new charges

A man who has at least 18 prior charges for stealing and who has spent three
years in prison for stealing has been charged with stealing again. This time St.
Peters police say he took three Sony PlayStation 2 entertainment systems from
the Costco warehouse.

Joshua L. McGhee, 25, of Warrenton, was charged with one count of stealing after
police say he took PlayStation units from the store on Jan. 22, 23 and 24. His
bond was set at $5,000.

O'FALLON

Man is charged with swinging bat at girlfriend

Charles E. Pugh, 31, of the 300 block of Woodlawn Avenue in O'Fallon, was
charged with armed criminal action after police said that on Tuesday he swung a
baseball bat at his girlfriend's head. The girlfriend told police that Pugh did
not hit her because she moved; she said that she called police because she
feared for her life.

Pugh was in the St. Charles County Jail on Friday in lieu of a $10,000 bond.

LOAD-DATE: January 28, 2002

LANGUAGE: English

                  Copyright 2002 St. Louis Post-Dispatch, Inc.


                              109 of 275 DOCUMENTS

                       St. Louis Post-Dispatch (Missouri)

                August 18, 2000, Friday, FIVE STAR LIFT EDITION

FORMER GUARD AT NAZI CAMP COULD FACE DEPORTATION;
APPEALS COURT RULES AGAINST ST. PETERS MAN

BYLINE: Tim Bryant; Of The Post-DispatchHOLOCAUST; WAR CRIMES; WWII

SECTION: METRO, Pg. C1

LENGTH: 402 words


Michael Negele of St. Peters could face deportation after a federal appeals
court upheld a ruling Thursday depriving him of his U.S. citizenship for trying
to hide his record as a Nazi concentration camp guard.

Negele, now 80, is a retired aircraft worker. He was a Waffen SS guard at two
concentration camps in World War II. He got a visa to enter the United States in
1950 and became a naturalized citizen in St. Louis in 1955.

The decision by a three-judge panel of the 8th U.S. Circuit Court of Appeals
backs a ruling in July 1999 by U.S. District Judge E. Richard Webber, who wrote
that Negele had acquiesced "in conduct contrary to civilization and human
decency."

Negele's lawyer, Warren Hoff, said he had yet to study the 8th Circuit ruling
and would decide later whether to appeal. Once all appeals are completed, the
government could begin an effort to deport Negele.

Justice Department lawyers who pushed the case against the St. Peters man were
unavailable Thursday in Washington.

Testifying before Webber last year, Negele said he never misled the immigration
authorities who allowed him to enter the United States without knowing he served
as a concentration camp guard.

Negele testified that when he sought a visa, he told immigration officials he
had served in the Romanian and German armies from February, 1942, until May,
1945, the month the war in Europe ended. The officials never asked him to give
details of his service. The Justice Department argued, and courts agreed, that
Negele hid his Nazi past, thereby getting his visa and eventual citizenship
illegally.

Negele, an ethnic German, was born in Romania. He testified that he was drafted
into the Romanian army in 1942. In 1943, as part of an agreement between Germany
and Romania involving ethnic Germans, Negele was drafted into the German army
and assigned to the SS Death's Head Battalion, he said.

The Germans sent him to Sachsenhausen, a labor camp for Jews near Berlin, where
he learned to handle a guard dog.

In June 1944, the SS transferred him and his dog to the Theresienstadt
internment camp in Nazi-occupied Czechoslovakia.

Writing for the 8th Circuit, Judge Kermit Bye said that the Nazi extermination
of "vast populations" is "one of the most deplorable and grotesque chapters in
human history."

"As this appeal demonstrates, that genocide continues to effect lives even
today," Bye added.

LOAD-DATE: August 18, 2000

LANGUAGE: English

                  Copyright 2000 St. Louis Post-Dispatch, Inc.


                              110 of 275 DOCUMENTS

                       St. Louis Post-Dispatch (Missouri)

               October 14, 2000, Saturday, FIVE STAR LIFT EDITION

LAWMAKERS QUESTION GROWING TREND OF JUDGES IGNORING FEDERAL GUIDELINES FOR;
SENTENCING

BYLINE: The Associated Press

SECTION: NEWS, Pg. 2

LENGTH: 417 words

DATELINE: WASHINGTONDOJ; COURT; SENTENCE; SENTENCING GUIDELINES; LEGISLATORS


* More criminals have been receiving lenient sentences. The Justice Department
cites an overload of illegal immigration cases in the Southwest as a reason.

Lawmakers on Friday questioned a growing trend of judges ignoring federal
sentencing guidelines in favor of more lenient sentences.

The Justice Department said the overload of illegal immigration cases in the
Southwest is a major factor.

Of 55,000 criminal sentencings in federal courts last year, only 65 percent were
within the guidelines of the U.S. Sentencing Commission, down from 82 percent in
1989, according to recently updated statistics from the commission. Judges went
above the guidelines in 0.6 percent of cases. More than one-third of sentences
were below the guidelines.

"Criminals are getting a break as fairness in sentencing is becoming more
elusive every year," Sen. Strom Thurmond, R-S.C., said at a hearing of the
Senate Judiciary criminal justice oversight subcommittee that he heads. "The
Sentencing Commission and the Department of Justice must address these
problems."

Thurmond criticized the Justice Department for last year appealing only 19 of
the 8,000 lower or "downward departure" sentences that did not involve a
defendant getting a reduced sentence for cooperating with authorities.

Witnesses from the seven-member Sentencing Commission, created as part of a 1984
law to make sentencing more uniform, and the Justice Department s aid they were
concerned with the trend. "But it should not set off any alarm bells," said John
Steer, vice chairman of the commission. "The guideline system is still
fundamentally sound."

Much of the growth in lower sentences, he said, can be attributed to the sharp
rise in immigration cases in the Southwest. Deportations last year accounted for
almost 20 percent of cases under the guidelines, compared with 0.2 percent in
1992. Arizona departed from guidelines in two-thirds of cases last year,
followed by Southern California at 58 percent.

Laird Kirkpatrick of the Justice Department's criminal division said that while
Congress and the White House have increased law enforcement efforts in Southwest
border states in recent years, there has not been a parallel increase in judges
and attorneys to handle the vastly expanded caseloads.

He said one reason for the low rate of appeals was a 1996 Supreme Court decision
giving local judges more leeway in making exceptions to the guidelines. "We like
to take cases up where we think we can win," he said.

LOAD-DATE: November 2, 2000

LANGUAGE: English

NOTES: NATION/WORLD

                  Copyright 2000 St. Louis Post-Dispatch, Inc.


                              111 of 275 DOCUMENTS

                       St. Louis Post-Dispatch (Missouri)

           November 20, 2001 Tuesday Illinois Five Star Lift Edition

GOP REP. JIM DURKIN ENTERS RACE FOR U.S. SENATE ;
 HE SERVES AREA WEST OF CHICAGO

BYLINE: The Associated Press

SECTION: METRO; Pg. D1

LENGTH: 279 words

DATELINE: WESTCHESTER, ILL.


State Rep. Jim Durkin on Monday become the latest Republican to join the U.S.
Senate race, touting his background as a prosecutor.

"I will support our military personnel by giving them a salary which will bring
the brightest and best to service," he told supporters at the Westchester Park
District gymnasium, where he accused Democratic U.S. Sen. Dick Durbin of
compromising national defense by voting to slash defense budgets, and
disregarding the need for strong immigration laws.

"These are times when our elected federal officials must examine and strengthen
the weak immigration laws which have allowed over 8 million illegal aliens to
enter the country," Durkin said.

Durkin, of Westchester, joins businessmen James Oberweis and John Cox in seeking
the Republican nomination to oppose Durbin in the election in November next
year.

Durkin is a former assistant Cook County state's attorney and (assistant
Illinois attorney general.)

He has represented his state House district, west of Chicago, for the past seven
years.

Durbin, a first-term senator, already has a war chest of $3 million, is a
hard-working campaigner and has developed a national reputation in the
Democratic Party.

In announcing his candidacy earlier this month, Oberweis, 55, a stockbroker and
chairman of the dairy that bears his family's name, pledged support for the Bush
administration's fight against terrorism.

Cox is a wealthy, anti-abortion businessman who got only 10 percent of the vote
last year in a failed primary bid to succeed retiring Rep. John Porter of
Wilmette.

Durkin planned to travel to central and Southern Illinois today to introduce
himself to voters.

LOAD-DATE: November 20, 2001

LANGUAGE: English

NOTES: Note: due to a production error, the test in parentheses was omitted form
this story in the newspaper.

                  Copyright 2001 St. Louis Post-Dispatch, Inc.


                              112 of 275 DOCUMENTS

                       St. Louis Post-Dispatch (Missouri)

                 June 28, 2001 Thursday Five Star Lift Edition

IMMIGRATION SERVICE ARRESTS 7,898 PEOPLE IN 3-WEEK STING;
 IT IS CALLED LARGEST OPERATION EVER

BYLINE: The Associated Press

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. A9

LENGTH: 310 words

DATELINE: WASHINGTON


Almost 8,000 people from 39 countries were arrested this month in what the
Immigration and Naturalization Service calls its largest international
anti-smuggling operation.

The three-week sting involved law enforcement agencies in the United States,
Canada and 12 Latin American and Caribbean countries.

"Operation Crossroads International provides us very important lessons about one
of the great, great problems we have today on human smuggling. This
multibillion-dollar global industry is becoming increasingly sophisticated and
is often intertwined with other criminal activities," said Kevin Rooney, acting
commissioner of the immigration service.

Officials said 75 smugglers and vendors of illegal documents were arrested
during the operation. Thirty-eight of them face smuggling charges, two in the
United States. Fourteen face charges on other immigration-related violations.
The remaining suspects face other charges.

In 13 cases, officials also seized illegal drugs valued at $9 million, the
agency said.

The arrests were largely made through checking of documents at hotels, airports,
highway checkpoints and safe houses - where smugglers stored immigrants while
moving them - in the other countries. Immigration service officers also helped
some of the countries to check passengers' documents at international airports.

"The message is clear - the United States is committed with its partners to
pursuing smugglers wherever they operate," said Hipolito Acosta, the agency's
director in Mexico City, who oversaw the operation.

The countries involved were Colombia, Costa Rica, the Dominican Republic,
Ecuador, Guatemala, Haiti, Honduras, Jamaica, Mexico, Panama, Peru and El
Salvador.

Of the 7,898 arrested, seven were U.S. citizens and most were arrested in
Mexico. The majority came from Honduras, El Salvador and Guatemala.

LOAD-DATE: June 28, 2001

LANGUAGE: English

                  Copyright 2001 St. Louis Post-Dispatch, Inc.


                              113 of 275 DOCUMENTS

                       St. Louis Post-Dispatch (Missouri)

                   January 25, 2002 Friday Three Star Edition

FOREIGNERS ENSLAVED IN U.S. CAN APPLY FOR SPECIAL VISAS ;
 VICTIMS OF SMUGGLERS CAN STAY IF DEPORTATION WOULD CAUSE SEVERE HARM

BYLINE: The Associated Press

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. A9

LENGTH: 403 words

DATELINE: WASHINGTON


Attorney General John Ashcroft approved on Thursday new rules setting up special
immigration visas for people smuggled into the United States and forced into
prostitution, domestic service or farm labor.

These "T-visas," established under a federal law enacted in 2000, will allow
victims to remain in the United States if they can convince immigration
authorities that they would face "extreme hardship involving unusual and severe
harm" if returned to their native countries.

After three years, victims can apply to remain in America permanently. In most
cases, they also can apply to have their spouses and children join them in the
United States. Applicants younger than 21 can ask to have their parents join
them.

"America will not stand idly by as those who seek to profit from modern-day
slavery ignore the humanity of their prisoners and show their disdain for the
rule of law," Ashcroft said.

Immigration Commissioner James Ziglar called the new visas "a powerful new tool
to protect the most vulnerable victims and prevent future trafficking."

Ashcroft said as many as 50,000 people - most of them women and children - were
brought into the United States each year, although the government will approve
only 5,000 of the new visas annually. The Immigra tion and Naturalization
Service is setting up a waiting list if more than 5,000 victims apply.

Ashcroft had promised earlier that the first applicant for these new visas would
be Phanupong "Got" Khaisri, 4, an AIDS-stricken Thai boy who was used by
smugglers in Los Angeles. The immigration service had denied Got asylum, but a
federal judge blocked his return to Thailand last summer.

Got was 2 years old, malnourished, HIV-positive and suffering from a severe ear
infection when he arrived at Los Angeles International Airport in April 2000. He
was accompanied by a couple who claimed to be his parents, but officials
determined that he was being used in a scheme to smuggle the woman into the
country. His own mother had rented him out to the smugglers.

Ashcroft also cited the case of Maria Choz, 19, who was kidnapped from her
parents' home in Guatemala three years ago and smuggled into Fort Myers, Fla.
Ashcroft said Choz was forced to labor in tomato fields during the day, then
turn over her earnings to her abductor and perform sexual favors for him at
night.

A federal jury last year convicted Choz's abudctor, Jose Tecum.

LOAD-DATE: January 25, 2002

LANGUAGE: English

NOTES: A shorter version of this story appeared in the FIVE STAR LIFT edition on
Page A4.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO; Photo from AGENCE FRANCE-PRESSE - Attorney General John Ashcroft
concludes a signing ceremony for new visa rules Thursday in Washington. With him
is Mike Becraft, deputy commissioner of the Immigration and Naturalization
Service.

                  Copyright 2002 St. Louis Post-Dispatch, Inc.


                              114 of 275 DOCUMENTS

                       St. Louis Post-Dispatch (Missouri)

                  July 21, 2002 Sunday Early Five Star Edition

PAKISTANI "GOOD GUY" IS DEPORTED IN INS CRACKDOWN;
 AS HE TELLS IT, TRAFFIC JAM THAT KEPT HIM FROM HEARING WAS DOWNFALL

BYLINE: Kathy Gannon The Associated Press

SECTION: NEWS ; Pg. A8

LENGTH: 594 words

DATELINE: PESHAWAR, PAKISTAN


He went to the United States in 1991, seeking political asylum after being
beaten and jailed as a student activist supporting former Prime Minister Benazir
Bhutto's liberal-leaning party.

Last month, S.M. Durrani returned to Pakistan in handcuffs, guarded by U.S.
marshals, with 130 other illegal immigrants rounded up after the terrorist
attacks of Sept. 11.

"The person who came to arrest me said, 'You're a good guy, but because of your
Muslim brothers, you are paying for this,'" said Durrani, a Muslim who had been
managing a service station in Anaheim, Calif. "You knew it was because of
September 11."

Durrani's nightmare began April 2, when a knock at the door of his home in San
Bernardino, Calif., about 70 miles east of Los Angeles, interrupted his slumber.

"Are you Durrani?" the two men asked. They were from the Immigration and
Naturalization Service.

Durrani had applied for political asylum in 1992. But he missed a second hearing
in Los Angeles on his application because, he said, of a tr affic jam. The judge
had adjourned the hearing and issued a deportation order.

"I didn't know what to do, so I didn't do anything. They sent me a letter. I
knew I had been deported, but I was working. I had a new baby. I know I should
have done something then, but I didn't. I was scared," he said.

Durrani did not go into hiding, even after Sept. 11, figuring he had been in the
United States so long that authorities would not pursue him. He and his American
wife, whom he would not identify, had another baby. He never changed the address
on his driver's license. "That's how they found me," he said.

A Justice Department official said the United States has strengthened efforts to
track people skirting deportation orders.

After his arrest, Durrani eventually was taken to an immigration detention
center in Lancaster, Calif., outside Los Angeles, where he shared a room with 64
other men facing immigration violations, he said. Most of the detainees were
Muslims, he said.

"It seemed like everyone who was there was named Mohammed," he said.

"There were some with green cards," he said, referring to permanent residence
papers. "There was one man who had a valid green card but was being sent back
because he had sent money to Afghanistan and to the Palestinians."

Durrani unsuccessfully appealed his deportation order for almost three months.
He was allowed visits from his wife, but he decided not to see his two children
- a 6-year-old daughter and a 2-year-old son.

"They wouldn't let me touch my children so I wouldn't let them come to visit,"
he said. "They would think that I didn't love them if I didn't hug them or kiss
them. They would remember me there in these bright orange clothes. I couldn't
bear it."

Last month, the detainees suddenly were told they were leaving. They were bused
June 18 to Los Angeles, their hands and ankles shackled.

In Los Angeles, he was told his wife could bring luggage weighing no more than
40 pounds. But he never saw her nor his luggage.

His wife said later that she was forbidden to see him and was instructed to take
the luggage home with her.

Durrani still is fighting his deportation. His wife is afraid to come to
Pakistan, said Durrani, and is now staying with relatives near the Afghanistan
border.

"She doesn't know Pakistan," he said. "Everything she reads and hears has scared
her, about women not having any rights and attacks on women. I can't make her
understand that that is only a small part of our society.

"She is afraid of Pakistan, and I am afraid of America."

LOAD-DATE: July 21, 2002

LANGUAGE: English

                  Copyright 2002 St. Louis Post-Dispatch, Inc.


                              115 of 275 DOCUMENTS

                       St. Louis Post-Dispatch (Missouri)

                January 10, 2002 Thursday Five Star Lift Edition

FOOD STAMPS GET WHITE HOUSE ATTENTION;
 PLAN INVOLVES IMMIGRANTS AND WOULD LIKELY PLEASE HISPANIC VOTERS

BYLINE: The Associated Press

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. A6

LENGTH: 374 words

DATELINE: WASHINGTON


The administration of President George W. Bush wants to reverse part of the
welfare overhaul of 1996 and restore food stamps for 363,000 legal immigrants,
an idea that probably will be well-received by Hispanic voters this election
year.

Immigrants who have lived in the country for at least five years would be
eligible for the benefits under the proposal that will be part of Bush's fiscal
2003 budget. Under current rules, adult immigrants must have worked in the
country for at least 10 years, no matter how long they have lived in the United
States, or be a refugee or member of the military to qualify for benefits.

A senior administration official, who described the proposal Wednesday on the
condition of anonymity, said the White House wanted the rule change included in
an overhaul of farm and nutrition policy now pending in Congress.

"I'm not shocked because President Bush has in the past recognized that this was
a community that he needs to be accountable to ... and that this is a
constituency he would like to appeal to," said Tanya Broder, an attorney with
the National Immigration Law Center. The Los Angeles-based advocacy group wants
benefits restored to all immigrants.

Many farm workers, whose jobs are seasonal, could benefit from the rule change,
she said.

The White House proposal sets up a potential battle with Senate Democratic
leaders, who have only proposed cutting the work requirement from 10 years to
four years. That plan would benefit about 65,000 immigrants. Democrats have
resisted more generous changes that would cut the amount of money available for
farm subsidies.

About 800,000 immigrants were removed from the food stamp rolls in 1996,
according to the Agriculture Department. Two years later, benefits were restored
to about 175,000 immigrants, mostly children and older people who were in the
country before enactment of the law.

The administration's proposal would cost $2.1 billion over 10 years. The
food-stamp program costs about $17 billion annually.

Food stamp rolls fell from 25.5 million in 1996, when Congress overhauled the
welfare system, to below 17 million early last year. By October, with the
nation's economy slumping, the number swelled to 18.4 million.

LOAD-DATE: January 10, 2002

LANGUAGE: English

                  Copyright 2002 St. Louis Post-Dispatch, Inc.


                              116 of 275 DOCUMENTS

                       St. Louis Post-Dispatch (Missouri)

                 January 13, 2002 Sunday Five Star Lift Edition

NORMALCY IS RETURNING TO OVERSEAS REFUGEE OFFICES

BYLINE: Karen Branch-Brioso Post-Dispatch Washington Bureau Bill Smith Of The
Post-Dispatch Contributed To This Report.

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. A10

LENGTH: 793 words

DATELINE: WASHINGTON


After Sept. 11, circuit-riding U.S. immigration officers who handle refugee
applications worldwide were stopped in their tracks by the threat of terrorism.
Since then, only two U.S. refugee offices abroad -- in Vienna and Havana -- have
continued to process applications.

That's about to change, said Kimberly Weissman, a spokeswoman for the
Immigration and Naturalization Service.

"We expect in the next few weeks to start sending our officers back to other
locations," Weissman said Friday. After Sept. 11, "the State Department and INS
were conducting a safety review. As we are clearing sites for our officers to
return, we look forward to sending officers back."

It's all part of the creeping back to normalcy that refugees have witnessed
since Nov. 21. On that day, President George W. Bush issued his belated
"determination on refugee numbers": the annual document in which the chief
executive dictates how many refugees the United States will accept for the
budget year.

Bush's order -- allowing up to 70,000 refugees to enter the United States in the
fiscal year that began Oct. 1 -- lifted the ban on refugee travel imposed Sept.
28 by Deputy Secretary of State Richard Armitage. The ban left stranded 20,000
anxious refugees whose claims of fear of persecution had been verified by the
U.S. government before Sept. 11, a State Department official said.

There hasn't exactly been a flood of refugees allowed in since. Roughly 800
refugees have entered the country through Dec. 31, said Lavinia Limon, director
of the nonprofit Immigration and Refugee Services of America, which has
resettled 101 of them. But now -- very slowly, the State Department, INS and
refugee advocates all acknowledge -- refugees are beginning to see a change for
the better.

"The process is certainly slower than it has been," said the State Department
official, who spoke on condition of anonymity. "We're moving as quickly as
possible to get people into the country. We've always had a tradition of
providing a safe haven to the persecuted, but at the same time we want to assure
the American people that we're not allowing those who pose a danger to enter our
country through this generous program."

The generosity, overall, has been diminished. Bush's total allotted number of
refugees for this year is about 10,000 less than last year. And the security
review of the program has led to tougher scrutiny for refugees from certain
countries -- apparently those with histories of harboring terrorists -- although
the State Department official would not comment on which countries.

State Department and INS officials also declined to tell refugee relocation
groups like Limon's.

"What we were told is refugees from certain places will be undergoing a more
in-depth security review," Limon said. "We asked, 'Which places?' They said,
'That's classified.' But, duh, it doesn't take a rocket scientist to figure it
out."

Limon said the 101 refugees that her group has resettled since Sept. 11 have
come from Croatia, Vietnam, Cuba, Russia, Austria and Uganda. "Nobody from
Afghanistan, nobody from Iraq, Iran, Lebanon, Egypt."

In St. Louis, the International Institute of Metro St. Louis is still awaiting a
number of Afghan refugees stranded in Pakistan who had approval to arrive before
Sept. 11. Only recently have any refugees started arriving at all, said Suzanne
LeLaurin, who oversees the institute's refugee program.

"We've had a few arrivals, none from Pakistan," LeLaurin said. "The only ones
that we had come through are Bosnians. They're only trickling in now."

LeLaurin doubts whether many will arrive before next month. Once the institute
is notified that a refugee family is coming to St. Louis, the agency scrambles
to rent an apartment, buy furniture and stock a refrigerator with enough
groceries for one to two days, she said. A representative of the institute meets
the families at the airport and takes them to their apartment. A social worker
then helps the family buy groceries and teaches them how to use public
transportation.

The institute's offices on South Grand enroll refugee children in school, set up
English classes for adults and help them find jobs, LeLaurin said.

For some Afghan refugees, their situation is only complicated by the success of
U.S. troops in removing the Taliban government. The State Department official
said that has created an option for the refugees other than the United States.

"Post-Sept. 11, INS is no longer doing interviews, with everything going on in
the country there," the official said. "And now, a lot of Afghan refugees are
repatriating. We just don't really know at this point. We can't predict how many
will still want to come here -- as opposed to returning to Afghanistan."

LOAD-DATE: January 13, 2002

LANGUAGE: English

NOTES: SO NEAR TO FREEDOM; Reporter Karen Branch-Brioso: E-mail:
kbranch@post-dispatch.com Phone: 202-298-6880

TYPE: PROFILE; U.S. IMMIGRATION BAN; AFGHAN REFUGEES; SIDEBAR STORY

                  Copyright 2002 St. Louis Post-Dispatch, Inc.


                              117 of 275 DOCUMENTS

                       St. Louis Post-Dispatch (Missouri)

                January 22, 2002 Tuesday Five Star Lift Edition

NO 9/11 TERRORISTS WERE IMMIGRANTS

BYLINE: Anna E. Crosslin

SECTION: EDITORIAL; Commentary Column; Pg. B17

LENGTH: 736 words


FIGHTING TERROR

Recently, an insidious ad campaign has been launched by United to Secure
America, a Washington, D.C., based lobbying coalition. In the ads, the
organization preys on America's fears by linking terrorism and America's legal
immigration program. However, none of the terrorists from the Sept. 11 tragedies
entered the U.S. as a legal immigrant. All the terrorists came as visitors or
students or even without documents. A legal immigrant is admitted permanently to
the United States -- on track to become an American citizen after five years of
residency. The legal immigration system is so complex and slow-moving that no
terrorist would waste time on this admissions route when other, easier ones
exist.

Legal immigrants fall into several categories. To qualify for the largest
subset, which is family reunification, all applicants must have a sponsor. A
sponsor is a close relative who is either a U.S. citizen or Permanent Resident
(a "green card" holder). Currently, only spouses, parents, sons, daughters,
sisters and brothers are eligible.

Even after a valid application is filed, processing by the Immigration and
Naturalization Service is slow and full of frustration. The number of
applications far exceeds the number of available visas. For instance, once the
INS approves an application for the Filipino brother or sister of an adult U.S.
citizen, the applicant still has to wait more than 20 years to obtain a U.S.
immigrant visa.

Refugee resettlement is another immigration subset. Terrorists are even less
likely to come as refugees. An applicant must demonstrate that he or she has a
well-founded fear of persecution to qualify for the U.S. resettlement program.
Even then, only a small percent of those who qualify are actually selected. For
instance, a Congolese family who arrived in St. Louis last September was one of
nine families selected for the U.S. program from a refugee camp of 1,200. And
because the refugee program is a humanitarian admissions program, its focus is
on resettling the most vulnerable among refugees -- war widows and their
children, the elderly and the like.

There are a few additional categories within legal immigration, including a
complex labor (employment) certification process. None of these subsets is easy
to negotiate, and the odds of successfully obtaining a visa are small.

So, from where did the terrorists come and what can we do to better protect
ourselves from future attacks? In a nutshell, they all entered the United States
through temporary rather than immigrant visa processes or they slipped into our
country without documentation.

Annually, about a million people are admitted to the United States as
immigrants. However, millions of others come to America on a variety of
temporary visas, including visitors, foreign students and temporary workers (a
different category from labor certification). While most arrivals are not
terrorist threats, it is relatively simple for terrorists to use temporary visas
for entry, because we have inadequate tracking and reporting systems. Thus, it's
simple for evil-doers to overstay their visas and to disappear if they have the
financial means to do so. And since neither our Canadian nor Mexican borders are
secure, terrorists can slip into the U.S. without any documentation at all.

So, why would potential terrorists bother to apply for admission through the
legal immigrant or refugee resettlement programs with easier, faster ways to get
in? They wouldn't. The U.S. government would serve us better by focusing its
limited time and funds on removing loopholes and developing tracking and
reporting systems to meet the problems already identified in the temporary visa
processes.

The ads sponsored by United to Secure America focus on newcomers who are playing
by the rules. These newcomers are, in fact, the shopkeepers, doctors and
engineers around you -- families seeking to make better lives for themselves
while becoming good citizens.

The anti-immigrant message is not new -- it's just got a new angle by feeding on
our fears of terrorism. The coalition's members have historically supported
English-only legislation, zero population growth and the like. Don't let them
profit from the Sept. 11 tragedies to achieve their purpose of limiting
immigration, when immigrants had nothing to do with the abominable tragedies in
New York, Pennsylvania and Washington.

LOAD-DATE: January 22, 2002

LANGUAGE: English

NOTES: Anna E. Crosslin is president of the International Institute, St. Louis.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO; File Photo by JERRY NAUNHEIM JR. /POST-DISPATCH - Father Lloyd
Lopez of Belize, a new American citizen, receives a commemorative American flag
from Jameel Spann, 15, at the conclusion of the naturalization service at the
Old Courthouse downtown. Father Lopez is the oldest and last of his eight
brothers and sisters to become an American citizen.

                  Copyright 2002 St. Louis Post-Dispatch, Inc.


                              118 of 275 DOCUMENTS

                       St. Louis Post-Dispatch (Missouri)

                February 7, 2002 Thursday Five Star Lift Edition

ASHCROFT ORDERS SHAKEUP OF IMMIGRATION APPEALS BOARD;
 HE SAYS BODY HAS HUGE BACKLOG OF CASES, 10,000 OF THEM OVER 3 YEARS OLD

BYLINE: Karen Branch-Brioso Post-Dispatch Washington Bureau

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. A5

LENGTH: 807 words

DATELINE: WASHINGTON


Attorney General John Ashcroft denounced on Wednesday a backlog of appeals at an
obscure board that reviews immigration court rulings. He announced reforms in
the board's procedures and a sharp cut in the board's membership, from 23 to 11.

The Board of Immigration Appeals "is broken in several respects," Ashcroft said
at a news conference. He said the board's backlog has reached 56,000 cases -
34,000 of them more than a year old, 10,000 more than three years old and "some"
more than seven years old.

"Both a cause and a consequence of this backlog is the fact that the board takes
an inordinately long time to resolve cases," he said. "It's often said that
justice delayed is justice denied. But when a case takes seven years, justice
isn't merely denied, it's derailed."

Most of the 23 positions on the board are appointees of former Attorney General
Janet Reno. The appeals panel most often rules in deportation cases.

Ashcroft presented his action as part of the Justice Department's restructuring
as a result of the attacks of Sept. 11. He said the bottleneck at the appeals
panel threatens national security.

But critics called his order the latest in a series of moves that the critics
say has threatened due-process rights of non-citizens.

In late October, Ashcroft issued an order giving himself the power to overrule
immigration judges' decisions to grant bond to people arrested on immigration
charges after Sept. 11. The organization that represents the nation's more than
211 immigration judges reacted by appealing to Congress to make them and the
immigration appeals board independent of the Justice Department.

Ashcroft already has the authority to overrule appeals board decisions, but the
power was used sparingly by attorneys general until Reno. She did so eight times
in her eight years in office. Ashcroft opted to review five appeals board
decisions personally in December.

Stephen Yale-Loehr, a Cornell University law school professor who represents the
American Immigration Lawyers Association, told Congress Wednesday that
Ashcroft's order to slash the number of appeals board members while asking them
to drastically reduce the caseload will have a chilling effect .

"We fear that board members would be forced to rubber-stamp immigration judges'
decisions without thorough, thoughtful review and analysis," Yale-Loehr said
before the House immigration subcommittee. "Board members often make decisions
that will determine whether someone who has been persecuted and tortured will
live or die, whether a U.S. family will be divided, or whether a permanent
resident who has lived here for decades will be returned to a country where
he/she has no ties."

But Ashcroft said there is plenty of evidence that the board can streamline its
ways without affecting due process rights. He cited an outside audit by the
Andersen LLP auditing company of the board's "pilot" program to increase
efficiency. The company deemed the program "an unqualified success" for helping
reduce backlog without adversely affecting appellants' rights.

Ashcroft's pending order will make permanent those procedures that allow a
single board member to make judgment on less complicated cases. A review by
three-member panels would only be allowed in these instances:

* To settle inconsistencies between rulings of different immigration judges to
resolve ambiguities in the immigration laws.

* To decide appeals involving matters of national importance.

* To correct a decision "that is plainly not in conformity with the law."

* To correct a factual determination that is "clearly erroneous."

Ashcroft said with that tougher screening standard in place, reducing the board
membership to 11 will not cause a problem. The board, like the Immigration and
Naturalization Service, falls under the attorney general's oversight of the
Justice Department but is independent of the immigration service.

Originally a five-member board, it more than quadrupled in size to 21 under
Reno. She appointed 16 of the current 19 members (there are four vacancies on
the board). Ashcroft has named two. The board's workload has more than doubled
in the past decade, to almost 30,000 appeals a year.

Before Sept. 11, Ashcroft approved two new slots for the board, boosting it to
23, according to the Executive Office for Immigration Review. But no more.

"The increased size of the board had no appreciable impact on the annual
completion of cases," Ashcroft said. "We now know that the backlog is not a
personnel problem; rather, it is fundamentally a problem of the procedure."

After the new rules take effect sometime in April, the current board will have
six months to reduce the backlog so that all appeals are determined within 10
months, Ashcroft said: "The board will then be returned to the appropriate size
of 11 members."

LOAD-DATE: February 7, 2002

LANGUAGE: English

NOTES: WAR ON TERROR; Reporter Karen Branch-Brioso; E-mail:
kbranch@post-dispatch.com; Phone: 202-298-6880

                  Copyright 2002 St. Louis Post-Dispatch, Inc.


                              119 of 275 DOCUMENTS

                       St. Louis Post-Dispatch (Missouri)

                February 11, 2002 Monday Five Star Lift Edition

JUSTICE ON THE CHEAP?

SECTION: EDITORIAL; Pg. B8

LENGTH: 391 words


IMMIGRATION

ATTORNEY GENERAL John D. Ashcroft has issued new rules altering the nation's
immigration appeals board. The focus is on speed and saving money. The risk is
that thousands of people won't be afforded due process of law.

The rules introduced last week call for all immigration appeals to be reviewed
by a single board member instead of the current panel of three. One judge will
either decide the cases or find that they are appropriate for review by a
three-member panel. Mr. Ashcroft said the change would help reduce a backlog of
56,000 cases. More than half of them are at least a year old, and more than
10,000 are more than three years old.

Once the backlog is cut, the attorney general wants to trim the appeals board to
11 judges from the current 19. (The board is supposed to have 23 judges but
currently has four vacancies.) The new plan will save the government $30 million
a year in salaries and the cost of detaining immigrants during appeals, Mr.
Ashcroft said.

Mr. Ashcroft is correct to speed up the process. Immigrants with a valid legal
basis for their appeals should see their cases resolved more quickly, and those
who violate the laws will be removed promptly from consideration. At the same
time, judges shouldn't be required to rush to judgment. Some immigrants, if
deported, could face torture or death in the countries they fled. Placing
life-or-death decisions in the hands of a single person in the name of
expediency is too risky.

Critics of the attorney general's plan also fear that once the backlog is
cleared, Mr. Ashcroft will get rid of judges who have ruled in favor of
immigrants. They also wonder if current judges, worried about their jobs, might
be tempted to rule more often for the government than the immigrants. Retaining
judges based on seniority would reduce that risk.

As the number of immigrants to the United States continues to grow, so too will
the number of deportation cases that end up being appealed. Halving the number
of judges might save money, but innocent people looking for better lives may end
up paying the price.

Mr. Ashcroft says he wants an immigration court system that is fair, prompt and
efficient. Those are all appropriate goals. The challenge is to be sure he
doesn't settle for justice on the cheap. The cost in human terms would be too
great.

LOAD-DATE: February 11, 2002

LANGUAGE: English

TYPE: EDITORIAL

                  Copyright 2002 St. Louis Post-Dispatch, Inc.


                              120 of 275 DOCUMENTS

                       St. Louis Post-Dispatch (Missouri)

               February 13, 2002 Wednesday Five Star Lift Edition

2 OFFICIALS SAY THEY'LL KEEP PROMISE TO ALLOW 70,000 REFUGEES IN U.S.;
 PACE HAS SLOWED SINCE TERRORIST ATTACKS

BYLINE: Karen Branch-Brioso Post-Dispatch Washington Bureau

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. A9

LENGTH: 571 words

DATELINE: WASHINGTON


Facing a bipartisan barrage with biblical admonishments, immigration and State
Department officials vowed Tuesday to keep a Bush administration promise to
allow 70,000 refugees into the country by Oct. 1.

It will be a tough promise to keep, they acknowledged.

"We had a slow start because of September 11," said Immigration and
Naturalization Service Commissioner Jim Ziglar, who promised the Senate
Judiciary subcommittee on immigration that he would do better. "We are moving
aggressively to change that. ... This is an all-American college try to reach
this goal."

After a State Department order that halted the flow of refugees for two months
after the terrorist attacks, only 2,800 refugees with well-founded fears of
persecution have stepped onto U.S. soil. Almost halfway through the budget year,
that makes just 4 percent of the 70,000 whom President George W. Bush said he
would allow to enter.

"Last year at this time, the United States had admitted more than 14,000
refugees to this country," said Sen. Edward Kennedy, D-Mass., chairman of the
immigration subcommittee.

That trickle of refugees for this year sent Sen. Sam Brownback, R-Kan., to the
Bible's book of Jeremiah and the Lord's command to "go do justice and
righteousness ... do no wrong to the stranger, the orphan or the widow."

"'Is that not what it means to know Me?' " Brownback quoted the Lord to Ziglar
and Arthur Dewey, assistant secretary of state for refugees, saying that heavily
scrutinized refugee applicants are the least likely to be terrorists.

The halt in refugee admissions stranded 44 St. Louis-bound Afghans in Pakistan -
most of them women and children. Seventeen have made it to St. Louis since then,
said Suzanne LeLaurin, who oversees the refugee program for the International
Institute of St. Louis.

"We're very concerned about the slow pace, because the refugees who are caught
up in limbo have fled persecution and they're generally not in good living
situations, so we're very concerned for their safety," LeLaurin said. "It's
ironic that the INS is saying we can't go in and interview refugees in certain
situations because it's not safe. We're delighted the INS and State Department
are trying to change that."

Ziglar, in particular, made the most promises to accelerate the process. After
Sept. 11, the INS stopped processing refugee applications in every place but
Vienna, Austria, and Havana. But he said the agency now has reopened processing
offices in Moscow; Nairobi, Kenya; and Zagreb, Croatia. Soon to reopen, Ziglar
vowed, are offices in Pakistan; Cairo, Egypt; and Belgrade, Yugoslavia.

The INS chief said he is training 60 new "circuit-riders" - the INS officers
deployed for temporary periods to nations without permanent refugee offices. By
mid-March, they are to join the corps of 100 officers already assigned to the
task of interviewing refugee applicants.

"It's a substantial increase," Ziglar said.

Also on the drawing board, he said, are plans to add to the four arrival sites
for refugees. Now, refugees must funnel through either Chicago, New York, Miami
or Los Angeles.

Dewey also made a promise - far less specific.

Brownback told him that "70,000 out of 14 million refugees worldwide doesn't
strike me as a particularly high number. ... I'm concerned about the widows and
the orphans. Don't you think we can do better for them?"

Dewey quietly answered: "We can do better."

LOAD-DATE: February 13, 2002

LANGUAGE: English

NOTES: Reporter Karen Branch-Brioso:; E-mail: kbranch@post-dispatch.com; Phone:
202-298-6880

GRAPHIC: PHOTO; Photo headshot - (Jim) Ziglar; INS commissioner addresses
senators

                  Copyright 2002 St. Louis Post-Dispatch, Inc.


                              121 of 275 DOCUMENTS

                       St. Louis Post-Dispatch (Missouri)

                  February 24, 2002 Sunday Three Star Edition

326 ARE HELD IN SEPT. 11 QUESTIONING

BYLINE: The Associated Press

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. A6

LENGTH: 216 words

DATELINE: NEWARK, N.J.


U.S. immigration officials say they are still holding 326 people detained for
questioning after the Sept. 11 attacks, down from about 460 early last month.

A Justice Department official who spoke on the condition of anonymity said
Friday that about 200 of those still held are of the most interest to the FBI
and that most of the rest should be released soon.

Almost all of the recent decline is due to detainees who accepted voluntary
departure orders or were deported, said INS spokesman Russ Bergeron.

At its height in late November, the government dragnet had taken in about 1,100
people for questioning. Most were held in county jails in New Jersey.

The overwhelming majority were found to have no involvement, and were handed
over to the Immigration and Naturalization Service for immigration violations,
usually for overstaying tourist or work visas.

Rights groups say the new figures show that the mass detentions were
discriminatory and provided few links to terrorism.

"We've been saying since Sept. 11 that they're focusing on the wrong group,"
said Sohail Mohammed, an immigration attorney who represented about two dozen
detainees. "You rounded up a thousand people and hardly found anything. It shows
how desperate they are to show that they're doing something."

LOAD-DATE: February 24, 2002

LANGUAGE: English

                  Copyright 2002 St. Louis Post-Dispatch, Inc.


                              122 of 275 DOCUMENTS

                       St. Louis Post-Dispatch (Missouri)

                  March 8, 2002 Friday Five Star Lift Edition

ADVOCATES SEEK TO RESTORE SAFETY NET FOR IMMIGRANTS

BYLINE: Karen Branch-Brioso Post-Dispatch Washington Bureau

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. A1

LENGTH: 1291 words

DATELINE: WASHINGTON


* States that replaced lost benefits now face budget crises that make keeping up
payments more difficult.

For Han Le, May 12 will mark seven years since he came to St. Louis as a refugee
from Vietnam.

It also will mark the end of the $545 monthly check the federal government
provides him as one of the nation's elderly poor.

The 1996 welfare reform law that barred most legal immigrants from receiving
public benefits allowed refugees to keep theirs -- for a time. That time is
almost up for the 71-year-old Le, who came to the United States as part of a
special program for refugees from Communist re-educa tion camps.

Under the law, the only way Le can keep getting a check is if he becomes a U.S.
citizen, something he wants but cannot do.

"He says that since he's so old, he can't learn enough English to pass the
citizenship test, so after May . . . he will go back to Vietnam to live with
relatives," said Ngoc Doan, Le's caseworker at the International Institute of
Metro St. Louis. "He feels bad, but he has no choice. It's his only income."

Congress is poised to renew the expiring welfare reform law this year.

But there's been little talk of restoring benefits to pre-1996 levels - when
poor legal immigrants and refugees like Le were on similar footing with
citizens.

And many states - Missouri and Illinois among them - that replaced some of those
benefits to immigrants are now facing budget crises that will make it harder to
keep up the payments.

As a result, refugees like Le face the prospect of losing job training, health
care and cash assistance, while thousands of legal immigrants who need such help
won't get it.

A familiar debate

Some lawmakers believe that providing immigrants entrance to a land of
opportunity is benefit enough - and allowing them access to welfare only makes
the United States "a welfare magnet" for poor immigrants.

"For 100 years, the policy in this country has been to not admit those who may
become public charges - and deporting those who become public charges," said
Rep. Thomas Tancredo, R-Colo., a longtime advocate of strict immigration
controls.

But advocates for immigrants, such as Cecilia Munoz of the National Council of
La Raza, say that it's unfair for the federal government to ban them from
getting welfare when they're down on their luck.

"Legal immigrants pay taxes, they register for Selective Service," said Munoz,
whose nonprofit group works to reduce poverty among Hispanics in America. "We
should give them the same access to the safety net. . . . Immigrants are not
talking about a different set of standards. We're simply talking about equity."

Michael Fix of the Urban Institute, a Washington-based social policy think tank,
estimates that a third of the 3 million immigrants who have arrived here since
1996 are eligible for aid, based on their incomes. But Fix estimates that "less
than a quarter, 10 to 20 percent" of them, have applied.

In the case of immigrants and refugees like Le who arrived when they were
elderly, the prospect of losing benefits such as Supplemental Security Income
can be devastating, said Ann Rynearson of the International Institute.

"They never worked here," she said. "They never have been to school."

Elderly refugees can take the citizenship test in their native language, but
only after they have been in the country for 15 years.

State response

State officials are among the strongest advocates for restoring welfare benefits
to immigrants.

The 1996 law amounted to a $24 billion cut to immigrant benefits in the first
year. States such as Illinois and Missouri have filled in some of the gaps from
their own coffers, offering poor immigrants access to grocery coupons, health
care, job training or temporary cash payments.

Illinois initially kicked in $10 million a year to replace many of the federal
cuts, said Edwin B. Silverman, chief of the state Bureau for Refugees and
Immigrants Services. That amount dwindled to $2.5 million last year for about
15,000 immigrants.

Silverman attributes the drop, in part, to a good economy that lifted many
immigrants above the poverty line, as well as Congress' restoration of benefits
to some immigrants - mainly the disabled and those who arrived before Aug. 22,
1996, when the law was signed.

Missouri took over the temporary cash payments to poor legal immigrants. The
state pays almost $1.5 million a year for the benefits, said Janel Luck, deputy
director of the state Division of Family Services.

"That's about 500 households we serve in any given month," Luck said. The
average client in the program is a single mother, 31, with two children and an
11th-grade education, according to a state analysis conducted for the
Post-Dispatch.

That state aid is now in jeopardy because of the recession, which is forcing
budget cuts and at the same time pushing more people out of jobs and into
poverty.

"Now, states are confronting very difficult budget situations, and the pressure
is even more on states to make up the difference," said Sheri Steisel, director
of the human services committee for the National Conference of State
Legislatures.

In 1997, Texas was one of the first states that replaced aid for elderly and
disabled immigrants who lost food stamps. "The federal government is shirking
its responsibility," then-Gov. George W. Bush said.

As president, Bush wants to restore food stamp benefits to legal imm igrants -
but only to those who have lived in the country for at least five years. He
supports the same restriction for other benefits as well.

Eric Bost, one of Bush's point men in the welfare debate, said the plan "strikes
the balance in terms of helping people to help themselves."

But some key Senate Democrats, including Majority Leader Tom Daschle of South
Dakota, spoke out this week against Bush's plan, in part because it fails to
restore benefits for legal immigrants.

Bush's proposal notes that one unintentional result of the welfare reform law
has been a sharp decrease in use of food stamps: "Only about half of the
families leaving welfare receive the food stamps for which their low income
qualifies them."

Some states, like Illinois, have noticed similar trends. Silverman's office
surveyed eligible populations to find out why they're not applying for the
replacement benefits the state provides.

"New arrivals were not only confused as to what they may or may not be eligible
for," Silverman said. "They also felt intimidated by the fear that applying for
benefits might jeopardize their future application for citizenship or might
result in their deportation."

Illinois set up special liaisons across the state to let poor immigrants know
that they could access benefits without fear. They work with local groups, such
as the Immigration Project in Granite City.

Daniel Juarez, coordinator of the Immigration Project, has spread the word
across Southern Illinois, including the Mexican immigrant population in Fairmont
City.

"We're in a campaign of talking to the communities to tell them to go apply for
public benefits, because a lot of them aren't applying," said Juarez, whose
audience is often families supporting four or five children on a $13,000 salary.
"They're afraid."

For elderly refugees like Le, another type of fear -that of losing benefits - is
setting in.

"The recent refugee groups - the Somalis and Kurds, and particularly the
Bosnians and Vietnamese - are running into this," said Rynearson, of the
International Institute. "The one group I see that is absolutely suicidal is the
elderly. Many of them were tortured and heavily brainwashed, so they had very
good reasons for coming here, and going back (to Vietnam) is not a light thing
to be doing."

LOAD-DATE: March 13, 2002

LANGUAGE: English

NOTES: THE DEBATE OVER WELFARE REFORM; Reporter Karen Branch-Brioso; E-mail:
kbranch@post-dispatch.com; Phone: 202-298-6880

GRAPHIC: PHOTO; Color PHOTO by JERRY NAUNHEIM JR. / POST-DISPATCH - Han Le, 71,
a Vietnamese refugee, holds 11-month-old Sandy Nguyen, a child of the family
with whom he lives on Keokuk Street. Le's $545 monthly checks will be cut off
May 12.

TYPE: PROFILE ; WELFARE REFORM

                  Copyright 2002 St. Louis Post-Dispatch, Inc.


                              123 of 275 DOCUMENTS

                       St. Louis Post-Dispatch (Missouri)

                    March 8, 2002 Friday Three Star Edition

ADVOCATES SEEK TO RESTORE SAFETY NET FOR IMMIGRANTS

BYLINE: Karen Branch-Brioso Post-Dispatch Washington Bureau

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. A1

LENGTH: 1294 words

DATELINE: WASHINGTON


* States that replaced lost benefits now face budget crises that make keeping up
payments more difficult.

For Han Le, May 12 will mark seven years since he came to St. Louis as a refugee
from Vietnam.

It also will mark the end of the $545 monthly check the federal government
provides him as one of the nation's elderly poor.

The 1996 welfare reform law that barred most legal immigrants from receiving
public benefits allowed refugees to keep theirs -- for a time. That time is
almost up for the 71-year-old Le, who came to the United States as part of a
special program for refugees from Communist re-educa tion camps.

Under the law, the only way Le can keep getting a check is if he becomes a U.S.
citizen, something he wants but cannot do.

"He says that since he's so old, he can't learn enough English to pass the
citizenship test, so after May . . . he will go back to Vietnam to live with
relatives," said Ngoc Doan, Le's caseworker at the International Institute of
Metro St. Louis. "He feels bad, but he has no choice. It's his only income."

Congress is poised to renew the expiring welfare reform law this year. But
there's been little talk of restoring benefits to pre-1996 levels -- when poor
legal immigrants and refugees like Le were on similar footing with citizens.

And many states - Missouri and Illinois among them - that replaced some of those
benefits to immigrants are now facing budget crises that will make it harder to
keep up the payments.

As a result, refugees like Le face the prospect of losing job training, health
care and cash assistance, while thousands of legal immigrants who need such help
won't get it.

A familiar debate

Some lawmakers believe that providing immigrants entrance to a land of
opportunity is benefit enough - and allowing them access to welfare only makes
the United States "a welfare magnet" for poor immigrants.

"For 100 years, the policy in this country has been to not admit those who may
become public charges - and deporting those who become public charges," said
Rep. Thomas Tancredo, R-Colo., a longtime advocate of strict immigration
controls.

But advocates for immigrants, such as Cecilia Munoz of the National Council of
La Raza, say that it's unfair for the federal government to ban them from
getting welfare when they're down on their luck.

"Legal immigrants pay taxes, they register for Selective Service," said Munoz,
whose nonprofit group works to reduce poverty among Hispanics in America. "We
should give them the same access to the safety net. ... Immigrants are not
talking about a different set of standards. We're simply talking about equity."

Michael Fix of the Urban Institute, a Washington-based social policy think tank,
estimates that a third of the 3 million immigrants who have arrived here since
1996 are eligible for aid, based on their incomes. But Fix estimates that "less
than a quarter, 10 to 20 percent" of them, have applied.

In the case of immigrants and refugees like Le who arrived when they were
elderly, the prospect of losing benefits such as Supplemental Security Income
can be devastating, said Ann Rynearson of the International Institute.

"They never worked here," she said. "They never have been to school."

Elderly refugees can take the citizenship test in their native language, but
only after they have been in the country for 15 years.

State response

State officials are among the strongest advocates for restoring welfare benefits
to immigrants.

The 1996 law amounted to a $24 billion cut to immigrant benefits in the first
year. States such as Illinois and Missouri have filled in some of the gaps from
their own coffers, offering poor immigrants access to grocery coupons, health
care, job training or temporary cash payments.

Illinois initially kicked in $10 million a year to replace many of the federal
cuts, said Edwin B. Silverman, chief of the state Bureau for Refugees and
Immigrants Services. That amount dwindled to $2.5 million last year for about
15,000 immigrants.

Silverman attributes the drop, in part, to a good economy that lifted many
immigrants above the poverty line, as well as Congress' restoration of benefits
to some immigrants - mainly the disabled and those who arrived before Aug. 22,
1996, when the law was signed.

Missouri took over the temporary cash payments to poor legal immigrants. The
state pays almost $1.5 million a year for the benefits, said Janel Luck, deputy
director of the state Division of Family Services.

"That's about 500 households we serve in any given month," Luck said. The
average client in the program is a single mother, 31, with two chil dren and an
11th-grade education, according to a state analysis conducted for the
Post-Dispatch.

That state aid is now in jeopardy because of the recession, which is forcing
budget cuts and at the same time pushing more people out of jobs and into
poverty.

"Now, states are confronting very difficult budget situations, and the pressure
is even more on states to make up the difference," said Sheri Steisel, director
of the human services committee for the National Conference of State
Legislatures.

In 1997, Texas was one of the first states that replaced aid for elderly and
disabled immigrants who lost food stamps. "The federal government is shirking
its responsibility," then-Gov. George W. Bush said.

As president, Bush wants to restore food stamp benefits to legal immigrants -
but only to those who have lived in the country for at least five years. He
supports the same restriction for other benefits as well.

Eric Bost, one of Bush's point men in the welfare debate, said the plan "strikes
the balance in terms of helping people to help themselves."

But some key Senate Democrats, including Majority Leader Tom Daschle of South
Dakota, spoke out this week against Bush's plan, in part because it fails to
restore benefits for legal immigrants.

Applications are dropping

Bush's proposal notes that one unintentional result of the welfare reform law
has been a sharp decrease in use of food stamps: "Only about half of the
families leaving welfare receive the food stamps for which their low income
qualifies them."

Some states, like Illinois, have noticed similar trends. Silverman's office
surveyed eligible populations to find out why they're not applying for the
replacement benefits the state provides.

"New arrivals were not only confused as to what they may or may not be eligible
for," Silverman said. "They also felt intimidated by the fear that applying for
benefits might jeopardize their future application for citizenship or might
result in their deportation."

Illinois set up special liaisons across the state to let poor immigrants know
that they could access benefits without fear. They work with local groups, such
as the Immigration Project in Granite City.

Daniel Juarez, coordinator of the Immigration Project, has spread the word
across Southern Illinois, including the Mexican immigrant population in Fairmont
City.

"We're in a campaign of talking to the communities to tell them to go apply for
public benefits, because a lot of them aren't applying," said Juarez, whose
audience is often families supporting four or five children on a $13,000 salary.
"They're afraid."

For elderly refugees like Le, another type of fear - that of losing benefits -
is setting in.

"The recent refugee groups - the Somalis and Kurds, and particularly the
Bosnians and Vietnamese - are running into this," said Rynearson, of the
International Institute. "The one group I see that is absolutely suicidal is the
elderly. Many of them were tortured and heavily brainwashed, so they had very
good reasons for coming here, and going back (to Vietnam) is not a light thing
to be doing."

LOAD-DATE: March 13, 2002

LANGUAGE: English

NOTES: THE DEBATE OVER WELFARE REFORM; Reporter Karen Branch-Brioso; E-mail:
kbranch@post-dispatch.com; Phone: 202-298-6880

GRAPHIC: PHOTO; Color PHOTO by JERRY NAUNHEIM JR. / POST-DISPATCH - Han Le, 71,
a Vietnamese refugee, holds his grandson, 11-month-old Sandy Nguyen, at their
home on Keokuk Street. Le's $545 monthly checks will be cut off May 12.

TYPE: PROFILE ; WELFARE REFORM

                  Copyright 2002 St. Louis Post-Dispatch, Inc.


                              124 of 275 DOCUMENTS

                       St. Louis Post-Dispatch (Missouri)

                  March 8, 2002 Friday Five Star Lift Edition

WELFARE REFORM AND IMMIGRANTS

BYLINE: Karen Branch-Brioso

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. A9

LENGTH: 356 words


The 1996 welfare reform law ended most legal immigrants' access to welfare
benefits, at least until they have been in the country for five years. (Illegal
immigrants never qualified, except for emergency aid.)

Refugees - those allowed into the United States because they were found to have
valid fears of persecution - were allowed to continue receiving public benefits,
with a cutoff caveat. Refugees who began receiving benefits after Aug. 22, 1996,
the day the law was signed, lose their benefits after the seventh anniversary of
their arrival.

Congress has since restored many benefits to legal immigrants who arrived before
the law was signed. The law expires in October. Here is a look at the benefits
and eligibility for legal immigrants:

Temporary Assistance for Needy Families - Cash assistance to poor families as
well as job training, education, transportation and child care to aid them in
getting a job. Benefits were cut to most recipients - citizens or noncitizens -
after five years. Legal immigrants who arrived here after the law was signed are
barred from receiving these benefits for five years.

Food stamps - Coupons or debit cards to buy groceries. Legal immigrants who
arrived after the law was signed are barred from receiving food stamps until
they've worked here for 10 years.

Supplemental Security Income - Cash assistance to poor elderly, disabled or
blind. Legal immigrants who arrived after the law was signed are barred from
applying for this aid until they become citizens. Refugees who began receiving
SSI after the law was signed will lose these benefits once they've been here for
seven years.

Medicaid - Health insurance program for the poor. Legal immigrants who arrived
after the law was signed cannot apply for Medicaid for five years. But all
noncitizens have access to emergency benefits.

State Children's Health Insurance Program - Health coverage for poor, uninsured
children. Legal immigrants who arrived after the law was signed cannot apply for
benefits for five years. But immigrants' children who were born here qualify,
even if their parents and older siblings do not.

LOAD-DATE: March 13, 2002

LANGUAGE: English

TYPE: PROFILE ; WELFARE REFORM ; SIDEBAR STORY

                  Copyright 2002 St. Louis Post-Dispatch, Inc.


                              125 of 275 DOCUMENTS

                       St. Louis Post-Dispatch (Missouri)

                  March 31, 2002 Sunday Five Star Lift Edition

AT A GLANCE

BYLINE: From News Services

SECTION: NEWS; Nation At A Glance Column; Pg. A8

LENGTH: 557 words


WASHINGTON

Pakistani who jumped ship is arrested, officials say

One of four Pakistani crewmen who jumped ship in a Virginia port was arrested
Saturday in Texas, immigration officials said.

Ahmad Salman's arrest was based on leads developed by Immigration and
Naturalization Service investigators at a bus station in Norfolk, Va., said
agency spokesman Bill Strassberger. Salman was arrested at midday without
incident at an apartment building in San Antonio where he was staying with an
acquaintance, Strassberger said. He was being held without bond pending further
proceedings.

The case prompted demands for stricter security because of reports that an
immigration official improperly allowed the men to come ashore. An INS inspector
failed to get authorization before granting a special waiver allowing them off
the ship, according to a Justice Department official.

The Pakistanis were crewmen aboard a Russian cargo ship sailing under the
Maltese flag that docked in Norfolk on March 15. The men disappeared, although
none was thought to be dangerous, INS officials said. The three others were
identified as Mohammad Nazir, Adnan Ahmad and Ghulam Qadar.

NEW YORK

Judge rejects free-speech defense in riot case

Judges ruling in separate cases refused to dismiss charges against two
defendants accused of praising the World Trade Center attacks who claimed their
free-speech freedoms were violated by their arrests.

The judges said First Amendment rights did not apply because the defendants knew
their words were likely to provoke anger or violence. Trials are pending.

In one case, Reggie Upshaw was charged with disorderly conduct and inciting a
riot after allegedly praising the attacks to a crowd of about 50 people near
Times Square a few days after Sept. 11.

Authorities quoted Upshaw as saying: "It's good that the World Trade Center was
bombed. More cops and firemen should have died. More bombs should have been
dropped, and more people should have been killed." Police said the crowd around
Upshaw made threatening remarks.

In a decision released Friday, Judge William Harrington wrote that Upshaw
claimed his language was "of a political nature, intended to spur debate and
thought." But the judge ruled that the words "were plainly intended to incite
the crowd to violence, and not simply to express a point of view."

The decision echoed a similar recent Manhattan Criminal Court ruling involving a
man arrested Oct. 4 near the trade center ruins. William Harve y allegedly said
the attacks were revenge for American treatment of Islamic nations.

Judge Neil Ross ruled that the time and place of the speech made it reasonable
to infer that Harvey knew "that public annoyance and alarm would result."

NEW YORK

Better view of recovery work is being created

Victims' families will be able to watch World Trade Center recovery operations
from the 20th floor of a building on the perimeter of the site starting April 8.

The Lower Manhattan Development Corporation is building an observation room next
to its offices, officials said Friday.

Families have been frustrated that little of the work can be seen from the
outdoor platform at the southwest corner of Liberty and West streets.

The final push in the excavation is focused on a subterranean area that used to
be the basement of the south tower.

LOAD-DATE: March 31, 2002

LANGUAGE: English

                  Copyright 2002 St. Louis Post-Dispatch, Inc.


                              126 of 275 DOCUMENTS

                       St. Louis Post-Dispatch (Missouri)

                 April 3, 2002 Wednesday Five Star Lift Edition

IRISH CITIZEN COUNTS ON COURT TO STOP DEPORTATION OVER DWIS ;
 DECISION HINGES ON WHETHER VIOLATION IS RULED VIOLENT

BYLINE: Tim Bryant Of The Post-Dispatch

SECTION: METRO; Pg. B1

LENGTH: 546 words


In a case that could affect other immigrants in a seven-state region, an Irish
citizen jailed in Missouri faces deportation for having felony convictions of
driving while intoxicated.

Frank P. Byrne remains in federal custody at the jail in Montgomery City, Mo.,
pending the outcome of his case before the 8th U.S. Circuit Court of Appeals in
St. Louis.

Byrne's court-appointed lawyer, Tim Wichmer of St. Louis, said Tuesday that
Byrne would be deported unless the 8th Circuit overturns a finding by
immigration authorities that the DWI convictions amount to a violent crime.

Byrne, 41, has lived in the United States since 1985.

"The question is, do you take this person, who has been here legally for a
couple of decades, (and) tack on a lifelong exile with no chance of ever coming
back?" Wichmer said.

Byrne entered the United States as a visitor in Newark, N.J., on March 15, 1985,
according to a Board of Immigration Appeals brief filed with the 8th Circuit. He
became a lawful permanent resident the following year.

Wichmer said Byrne came to the United States to marry an American. The woman,
now divorced from Byrne, lives with the couple's 12-year-old son in Arizona. She
has legal custody of the child, but Byrne pays child support. Byrne has spent
time in the St. Louis area, Wichmer said.

In March 1998, Byrne was found to be a "persistent offender" for a DWI
conviction, his third, in Jackson County Circuit Court, in Kansas City. He got a
three-year prison sentence.

After completing the sentence at the Moberly Correctional Center, he w as taken
into custody by the Immigration and Naturalization Service and jailed in
Montgomery City. On July 10, 2000, an immigration judge found Byrne deportable.

In his appeal to the immigration board, Byrne argued that a felony DWI
conviction was not a crime of violence and, therefore, not an "aggravated
felony" that triggers deportation. The board upheld the immigration judge's
decision and dismissed Byrne's appeal.

To bolster its case that felony DWI is a violent crime, the board said in its
8th Circuit brief that each year, accidents involving drunken drivers killed
25,000 people, hurt nearly a million and caused $5 billion in property damage.

By its nature, the immigration board argued, felony DWI under Missouri law
"involves a substantial risk that physical force against a person or property by
another may be used during the course of committing the offense."

Wichmer said: "I understand that nobody likes to feel sorry for the drunk
driver. But (Byrne) didn't hurt anybody here. Does the punishment fit the
crimes?"

Wichmer said he hoped the 8th Circuit joins five other federal appeals courts,
including the 7th Circuit in Chicago, in finding that felony DWI is not a
violent crime that makes an alien deportable. Byrne's case could affect
thousands of others, Wichmer added.

The 8th Circuit - made up of Missouri, Arkansas, Iowa, Minnesota, North Dakota,
South Dakota and Nebraska - had yet to decide when it would hear Byrne's case.
If deported, he will in effect be exiled from the United States for life,
Wichmer said. Byrne would be barred for 10 years from seeking readmission.

"His son would be in his 20s before he has even a shot at getting back," Wichmer
said.

LOAD-DATE: April 3, 2002

LANGUAGE: English

NOTES: Reporter Tim Bryant: E-mail: tbryant@post-dispatch.com Phone:
314-621-5154

                  Copyright 2002 St. Louis Post-Dispatch, Inc.


                              127 of 275 DOCUMENTS

                       St. Louis Post-Dispatch (Missouri)

                 April 4, 2002 Thursday Five Star Lift Edition

AT A GLANCE

BYLINE: From News Services

SECTION: NEWS; Nation At A Glance Column; Pg. A4

LENGTH: 609 words


DETROIT

Judge rules against closing immigration hearings

Justice Department policy to close immigration hearings deemed of "special
interest" to the investigation into the terrorist attacks of Sept. 11 is
unconstitutional, a federal judge in Detroit ruled Wednesday.

The ruling, in a consolidated lawsuit involving a Lebanese detainee and Detroit
news outlets, represented the first federal decision against tactics employed by
the government in the terrorist investigation, which has been criticized by
civil liberties advocates for its secrecy.

The judge, Nancy Edmunds, rejected the government's argument that the closed
hearings were necessary to protect national security and the integrity of the
investigation.

The Justice Department has indicated it will appeal. It remained unclear what
immediate effect the ruling would have on the policy, which has led to the
closure of hundreds of hearings.

WASHINGTON

Prisoner held in Cuba claims U.S. citizenship

One of the 300 prisoners the U.S. military is holding in Cuba claims he was born
in Louisiana to Saudi parents and is an American citizen, a Pentagon spokesman
said Wednesday. The claim, if true, could lead to his transfer from the
detention center at a Navy base.

The Justice Department found a birth certificate in the state that appears to
match the man's claim, Defense Department spokesman Bryan Whitman said. Whitman
declined to identify the prisoner.

The man says he was born in Baton Rouge, La., while his parents were working in
the state, and accompanied them to Saudi Arabia when he was a toddler, Whitman
said.

Children born in the United States automatically are American citizens. If the
detainee's claim is true, he would be a U.S. citizen unless he had renounced or
otherwise changed that citizenship.

The detention center at the base in Guantanamo Bay, Cuba, is not meant to hold
U.S. citizens, military officials have said.

NEW YORK

Embassy bombing suspect admits stabbing guard

A purported key backer of Osama bin Laden pleaded guilty Wednesday to stabbing a
prison guard in the eye with a sharpened comb, leaving him brain-damaged.

Mamdouh Mahmud Salim entered the plea in U.S. District Court in Manhattan.

Prosecutors allege that Salim is a founding member of bin Laden's al-Qaida
organization. He had been scheduled to go to trial next week on charges of
maiming the guard in November 2000 as part of a wider plot to take hostages and
win the release of other prisoners at the Metropolitan Correctional Center.

Salim, 45, entered the guilty plea to charges of conspiracy to murder and
attempted murder. The charges carry a penalty of up to life in prison plus 20
years. Sentencing was set for Aug. 5.

At the time of the attack, Salim was awaiting trial on other conspiracy charges
involving the bombings in August 1998 of two U.S. embassies in Africa. Those
charges are pending.

WASHINGTON

Man gets 15 months for illegal gun possession

A St. Louis native, Mujahid Abdulqaadir Menepta, was sentenced Wednesday to 15
months in prison for illegal possession of three guns that were discovered in
his Norman, Okla., home in a post-Sept. 11 sweep.

Federal agents first detained Menepta, 51, as a material witness after he spoke
publicly of his friendship with terrorism suspect Zacarias Moussaoui. Menepta,
known as Melvin Lattimore until his conversion to Islam in 1989, befriended
Moussaoui last year at a Norman mosque.

Federal agents never linked Menepta to terrorism. But they did charge him with a
crime after a search of his home turned up the guns. He cannot legally own
firearms as a felon with a 30-year-old robbery conviction.

LOAD-DATE: April 4, 2002

LANGUAGE: English

NOTES: WAR ON TERROR

                  Copyright 2002 St. Louis Post-Dispatch, Inc.


                              128 of 275 DOCUMENTS

                       St. Louis Post-Dispatch (Missouri)

                  April 9, 2002 Tuesday Five Star Lift Edition

IMMIGRATION OFFICIALS TOUGHEN RULES; STUDENTS MUST GET VISAS BEFORE CLASSES ;
 AGENCY ALSO PROPOSES STRICTER LIMITS FOR OTHERS

BYLINE: The Associated Press

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. A4

LENGTH: 471 words

DATELINE: WASHINGTON


Immigration officials tightened visa rules for foreign students Monday and
proposed a 30-day limit to the time millions of tourists and business people may
stay in the country.

Effective immediately, foreigners wishing to study in the United States must get
a student visa before beginning classes. Previously, students could request a
visa and begin course work while their application was processed.

The Immigration and Naturalization Service believes requiring approval before
students enroll will ensure they have received appropriate security checks
before entering the country.

The INS also is proposing that people who want to switch from a tourist or
business visa to a student visa return to their home country to apply. A person
now can switch while in America. In return, the INS says it would speed up
decisions on such requests, issuing them within 30 days.

Two of the Sept. 11 hijackers, Mohammed Atta of Egypt and Marwan Al-Shehhi of
the United Arab Emirates, came to the United States on visit or visas and later
applied for student visas. They began training at a Florida flight school in
July 2000, more than a year before the INS approved their student visas.

At the time of the attacks, about 600,000 foreign students were enrolled in U.S.
colleges and universities. INS officials acknowledged they could not verify the
whereabouts of many and promised changes to better track them.

The INS also is proposing to reduce from six months to 30 days the time a
business traveler or tourist may stay in America. And the agency will make it
more difficult to extend a stay.

Visitors would have to show unexpected or compelling reasons for an extension,
such as the need for medical treatment or a delay in completing a business
matter, according to an INS official. The maximum length of a visa extension
would be reduced from one year to six months.

The changes could have a huge impact on the many thousands of people who spend
more than a month visiting family in America. Also affected would be young
people and retirees from foreign lands who come to the United States each year
and for months of sightseeing.

The INS says about 10 million people received tourist visas in 2000, the latest
year with available data, and three-quarters of them stayed less than a month.
An additional 2.5 million traveled to America on business and stayed an average
13 days.

Under another rule being proposed the INS wants to require people who get final
deportation orders to surrender within 30 days. Those who don't would be denied
any chance to appeal or seek asylum.

Now, about 90 percent of nondetained individuals who receive final deportation
orders fail to surrender, according to the INS. Those who do often appeal or
seek asylum.

The proposed rules are open to public comment for 30 days.

LOAD-DATE: April 9, 2002

LANGUAGE: English

NOTES: WAR ON TERROR

                  Copyright 2002 St. Louis Post-Dispatch, Inc.


                              129 of 275 DOCUMENTS

                       St. Louis Post-Dispatch (Missouri)

                 April 11, 2002 Thursday Five Star Lift Edition

HOUSE COMMITTEE BACKS BILL TO BREAK UP IMMIGRATION AGENCY;
 AGENCY WOULD BE DIVIDED INTO TWO SEPARATE SERVICES UNDER JUSTICE DEPT.

BYLINE: The Associated Press

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. A9

LENGTH: 367 words

DATELINE: WASHINGTON


The embattled Immigration and Naturalization Service would be dissolved under a
bill approved by a House committee Wednesday, to be replaced by two new agencies
that would divide immigration enforcement and citizenship services.

The Judiciary Committee voted 32-2 to send the bill to the full House. The bill
is sponsored by the committee's chairman, Rep. James Sensenbrenner, R-Wis. The
committee's overwhelming endorsement was seen as a sign of congressional
discontent with the agency and with the admin istration's plan to fix it from
the inside.

James Ziglar, the Immigration Service commissioner, wants to divide the agency's
functions administratively but keep the agency intact. Ziglar said President
George W. Bush's administration has no position on Sensenbrenner's bill.

Committee members said they had heard too many ineffective overhaul plans for
the agency over the years.

"The (immigration service) has reorganized itself numerous times in the past two
decades, but the agency is still in a deep quagmire," said Sensenbrenner. "I
don't think any additional attempt at internal reorganizing can pull the
(agency) out of this morass in which it finds itself."

Under Sensenbrenner's bill, the immigration service would be abolished, and the
bureaus of Citizenship and Immigration Services and of Immigration Enforcement
would take over its responsibilities.

The new agencies would remain under Justice Department control but report to a
new associate attorney general for immigration affairs.

The immigration service has been criticized for years because of huge backlogs
of applications for such benefits naturalization or permanent residence.
Lawmakers say they have the political momentum to abolish the agency because the
terrorist attacks of Sept. 11 heightened the need to protect the nation's
borders.

"I believe now we can begin to fix this problem and help restore the public
confidence in our immigration system," said Rep. Sheila Jackson Lee, D-Texas.

Supporters and critics agree that the service has conflicting missions to help
immigrants enter and stay in the country and to identify and keep out those who
try to enter illegally or may pose a danger.

LOAD-DATE: April 11, 2002

LANGUAGE: English

                  Copyright 2002 St. Louis Post-Dispatch, Inc.


                              130 of 275 DOCUMENTS

                       St. Louis Post-Dispatch (Missouri)

                    April 26, 2002 Friday Three Star Edition

HOUSE VOTES TO REPLACE INS WITH 2 AGENCIES

BYLINE: The Associated Press

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. A13

LENGTH: 535 words

DATELINE: WASHINGTON


The Immigration and Naturalization Service would be replaced by new agencies
separately handling immigration and deportations under a bill the House
overwhelmingly passed Thursday.

Rep. James Sensenbrenner, R-Wis., who pushed the measure through faster than the
White House wanted but eventually got its blessing, called for abolishing an
embattled INS that he described as an "undesirable and unwanted stepchild."

"It carries out neither of its crucial missions effectively, enforcing our
immigration laws or providing services to immigrants playing by the rules," said
Sensenbrenner, chairman of the House Judiciary Committee.

The GOP-controlled House passed the bill 405-9. It now goes to the Senate.

The Democratic-led Senate will begin work next week on its own version.
Immigration Commissioner James Ziglar is to appear Thursday before the Senate
Judiciary immigration subcommittee.

Both the House bill and a Senate measure sponsored by the subcommittee chairman,
Sen. Edward Kennedy, D-Mass., would eliminate Ziglar's position.

Under Sensenbrenner's plan, the Justice Department would form a single agency to
enforce laws and keep unqualified people from entering the United States. A
second agency would smooth the way to possible citizenship for legal immigrants.

Many in Congress believe that abolishing the immigration service is necessary
because of a series of foul-ups.

Notice of previously approved visa extensions for two of the 19 Sept. 11
hijackers was mailed months after the attacks. Also, a government aviation
newsletter was still being mailed to a third hijacker long after his death.

The immigration service also has been criticized for years because of huge
backlogs of applications for naturalization or permanent residence.

Sensenbrenner's plan would establish a new associate attorney general's position
to oversee the new agencies. Kennedy's would rely on what he said would be a
stronger immigration affairs director.

Sensenbrenner pushed his bill forward even though Ziglar told the House
Judiciary Committee that the Bush administration had its own plan.

The White House and the Justice Department, in return, refused to ask for any
changes to the bill. They waited until hours before the vote to publicly endorse
the GOP-pushed bill. Even then, Attorney General John Ashcroft said officials
would work with the Senate or a House-Senate negotiating committee to make the
changes they want.

The administration wants to remove the House's limitations on whom the president
can place in charge of the immigration agency and wants that official to have
more power than Sensenbrenner's bill would allow.

Seven Democrats voted against the bill, including Rep. Melvin Watt of North
Carolina.

"You've got one inefficient, unproductive (agency) now. It seems to me what
you're going to end up with is two inefficient agencies," Watt said.

The other Democrats who voted against the bill were Reps. Zoe Lofgren of
California, Patsy Mink and Neil Abercrombie of Hawaii, Earl Pomeroy of North
Dakota, Eva Clayton of North Carolina and Mike Honda of California. GOP Rep. Jim
Kolbe of Arizona and independent Rep. Bernie Sanders of Vermont also voted
against the bill.

LOAD-DATE: April 26, 2002

LANGUAGE: English

                  Copyright 2002 St. Louis Post-Dispatch, Inc.


                              131 of 275 DOCUMENTS

                       St. Louis Post-Dispatch (Missouri)

                  April 29, 2002 Monday Five Star Lift Edition

REFORMING THE GATEKEEPERS

SECTION: EDITORIAL; Pg. B6

LENGTH: 454 words


IMMIGRATION

LAST WEEK, congressional bipartisanship, which disappeared long before Osama bin
Laden did, returned with a vengeance. The House voted 405 to 9 -- four hundred
and five to nine -- to restructure the Immigration and Naturalization Service.
You can begin to understand why by dialing 800-375-5283.

That will connect you to the ironically-named INS National Customer Service
center. People have been known to call this number and be placed on hold for
days. We were lucky-- we waited patiently through the voice mail menu and then
pressed the number for more information. We got a split second of recorded music
and then were disconnected.

Eight years ago, an investigation by The New York Times called the INS "perhaps
the most troubled major agency in the federal government." The investigation
concluded that the agency is "broadly dysfunctional. ... an agency in disarray.
It lurches from one immigration emergency to the next, its employees
demoralized, its mission unfulfilled."

Things have only gotten worse since. Still, the INS might have continued
lurching forward had it not chosen to mail visa extensions to Mohamed Atta and
Marwan al-Shehhi last month. Not only were they dead, but the INS sent their
visa extensions to Florida flight school where they practiced flying hijacked
airliners into the World Trade Center. This was the last straw for the House,
though members could have asked any of the 8 million Americans who sought
immigration services last year about their experiences. The INS, which has a
$6.2 billion annual budget and 37,000 employees, has two main functions: keeping
illegal aliens out and helping legal aliens get in. Often it seemed like they
had the process reversed. Four out of five aliens who try to cross the border
from Mexico are successful. Legal immigrants and their sponsors endure endless
forms, endless waits and endless frustration.

The bill passed by the House would divide the INS into two bureaus, one to deal
with legal immigrants, the other to deal with illegals. Each would report to an
assistant attorney general in charge of immigration affairs. Attorney General
John D. Ashcroft supports the concept, but argues that the new bureaus need more
authority. Sen. Edward M. Kennedy, D-Mass., co-sponsor of a similar bill that
will be heard by the Senate this week, agrees.

That John Ashcroft and Ted Kennedy would agree on anything indicates the depth
of the problem. The Senate should see to it that America's gatekeepers not only
get the enforcement powers they need, but also the manpower, budget and
management skills to enforce the laws fairly. That means protecting civil rights
as well as borders, providing service as well as justice.

LOAD-DATE: April 29, 2002

LANGUAGE: English

TYPE: EDITORIAL

                  Copyright 2002 St. Louis Post-Dispatch, Inc.


                              132 of 275 DOCUMENTS

                       St. Louis Post-Dispatch (Missouri)

                     May 5, 2002 Sunday Three Star Edition

THOMPSON SAYS HE SUPPORTS WELFARE FOR LEGAL IMMIGRANTS;
 HE ALSO SAYS HE BACKS HIGHER TAX ON CIGARETTES

BYLINE: The Associated Press

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. A16

LENGTH: 487 words

DATELINE: WASHINGTON


Health and Human Services Secretary Tommy Thompson says he supports restoring
welfare benefits for legal immigrants, siding with Democrats who want to give
states this option.

He also said he would back higher taxes on cigarettes as a way of discouraging
smoking, although he cautioned that he was not speaking on that subject for the
White House.

On welfare, Thompson said Friday that he did not share the views of other
Republicans who say immigrants should rely on friends and relatives who brought
them here for needed help.

"If states want to do it, they should have the opportunity," he said. "We're not
pushing it, but if it passes, it's going to be included."

The administration's welfare plan continues a five-year ban on welfare for
immigrants, which was put into place as part of the 1996 welfare overhaul.
Congress is renewing that law and considering changes, and many Democrats want
to reopen the program to immigrants.

This change would cost no federal money but would give states permission to use
their share of welfare money from the federal government for these benefits.

Noncitizens also are excluded from Medicaid, and adding them back would cost the
federal government billions of dollars. Thompson said he has no philosophical
objection to lifting the ban. "It's dollars, money," he said.

President George W. Bush pushed for and won a partial restoration of food stamp
benefits for immigrants, which were also cut off in 1996.

Thompson also:

* Said he would support higher taxes on cigarettes.

"Why not? I'm for it, but I'm talking as Tommy Thompson now, not as a member of
the administration," he said.

Thompson was asked about the cigarette tax after discussing his initiative to
get Americans to refrain from smoking, eat right, exercise and go to the doctor
in order to prevent health problems.

The federal cigarette tax was increased in 1997 to pay for a children's health
insurance program, but the White House and most Republicans are loath to support
any sort of tax increase.

* Rebutted rumors that he is not enjoying his job.

"I'm enjoying myself, contrary to what a lot of people have written and said,"
he said, adding that he's buying a condo in nearby Alexandria, Va. "I love the
department. I love being involved in policy.

"I told the president I would give him two years, and my two years are not up,"
he added.

* Predicted that Congress would act this year to add prescription drugs to
Medicare, despite differences over how much money to spend and what other
changes are needed to the program.

He noted that many members of Congress who ran for office on helping elderly
Americans pay for prescription drugs through Medicare are up for re-election
this year.

"Are they going to be satisfied with going back and saying, 'Trust me one more
time'? Come August, September, the pressure is going to be very high to deliver
on prescription drugs," he said.

LOAD-DATE: May 5, 2002

LANGUAGE: English

                  Copyright 2002 St. Louis Post-Dispatch, Inc.


                              133 of 275 DOCUMENTS

                       St. Louis Post-Dispatch (Missouri)

                   May 19, 2002 Sunday Five Star Lift Edition

JUDGE UPHOLDS JAILING OF HAITIANS

BYLINE: The Associated Press

SECTION: NEWSWATCH; Pg. B7

LENGTH: 198 words

DATELINE: MIAMI


A federal judge has rejected a lawsuit challenging a secret decision by the
administration of President George W. Bush to indefinitely jail Haitians who
apply for political asylum after they have been caught trying to enter the
United States illegally.

U.S. District Judge Joan Lenard accepted the Justice Department argument that
immigration "strikes at the heart of a nation's sovereignty" and deferred to the
executive branch.

Immigration attorneys sued over a decision in December to keep Haitian asylum
seekers behind bars until their cases are decided in order to discourage a
feared mass exodus from the Caribbean nation afflicted with political upheaval
and poverty.

That means Haitians are being treated differently from asylum seekers from other
countries, who are generally freed until their asylum requests are decided.
Immigration attorneys attacked the policy change as unconstitutional and
discriminatory.

The judge, who threw the case out Friday without a hearing, concluded that the
courts are not the right place for jailed Haitians to be seeking help.

"It's a deeply disappointing decision," said Cheryl Little of the Florida
Immigrant Advocacy Center.

LOAD-DATE: May 20, 2002

LANGUAGE: English

                  Copyright 2002 St. Louis Post-Dispatch, Inc.


                              134 of 275 DOCUMENTS

                       St. Louis Post-Dispatch (Missouri)

                 May 22, 2002 Wednesday Five Star Lift Edition

APPEAL BOARD REVERSES DECISION ON DEPORTATIONS BASED ON DUI CONVICTIONS

BYLINE: Peter Shinkle Of The Post-Dispatch

SECTION: METRO; Pg. B3

LENGTH: 370 words


A little-known federal appeal board has reversed its own ruling on whether
aliens can be deported for drunken driving. As a result, it appears that an
Irishman with three felony DUI convictions in Missouri may stay here.

The Board of Immigration Appeals ruled April 4 in a case from Massachusetts that
driving under the influence does not constitute a crime of violence and is
therefore not grounds for deportation. The board reviews decisions made by the
Immigration and Naturalization Service.

Before that ruling, the Justice Department argued in a case in the 8th U.S.
Circuit Court of Appeals in St. Louis that Frank P. Byrne should be deported.
Now, the department wants the Board of Immigration Appeals to take a look.

"It's just a matter of time before the Board of Immigration Appeals terminates
the case," said Byrne's attorney, Tim Wichmer of Clayton. "It's a win, a total
win."

The INS released Byrne from custody in St. Louis on April 18. Byrne is on parole
from his state prison sentence and living in Kansas City.

Byrne, 41, said that during the case INS officials promised him legal documents
so he could pursue his appeal, but then failed to provide them. "I felt like
they were pounding me into giving up the opportunity to fight," he said.

Heather Phillips, an attorney for the Justice Department, said that depending on
a review of how Byrne's case fits with the Massachusetts decision, he still
might be deported.

The law on this issue has been unsettled. Four federal appellate courts - the
2nd, 5th, 7th and 9th circuits - have ruled that DUI convictions are not a
foundation for deportation; two others said they are.

The board's decision April 4 overturned a precedent it set in 1999 that regarded
driving under the influence as a crime of violence. It said the reversal ensures
uniform treatment of aliens nationwide.

INS spokeswoman Karen Kraushaar said figures were not readily available on DUI
deportations. But of the 174,430 people deported in the year that ended Sept.
30, 1,325 were for traffic offenses, she said.

Byrne has been a permanent U.S. resident since 1986, and lived in St. Louis for
periods in 1998 and 1999. His DUI convictions were in Jackson County.

LOAD-DATE: May 22, 2002

LANGUAGE: English

NOTES: Reporter Peter Shinkle:; E-mail: pshinkle@post-dispatch.com; Phone:
314-340-8215

                  Copyright 2002 St. Louis Post-Dispatch, Inc.


                              135 of 275 DOCUMENTS

                       St. Louis Post-Dispatch (Missouri)

                  June 6, 2002 Thursday Five Star Lift Edition

LAW PROFESSOR FROM UMKC IS SHAPING IMMIGRATION POLICY ;
 HE HAS WHITE HOUSE FELLOWSHIP

BYLINE: Karen Branch-Brioso Post-Dispatch Washington Bureau

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. A1

LENGTH: 792 words

DATELINE: WASHINGTON


Kris Kobach was a relative unknown when he took a temporary job at the Justice
Department just days before the terrorist attacks of Sept. 11. But immigration
advocates have since become very familiar with the Missouri law professor's name
-- as a detail man behind the department's controversial new immigration
policies.

"He's quite well-known," said Angela Kelley, deputy director of the
pro-immigrant advocacy group, the National Immigration Forum. "Many of the
post-Sept. 11 actions by the Justice Department that take aim at immigrants have
been attributed to him. He's the brains behind them."

Kelley and other advocates are not enamored of Kobach's work.

"He's showing a profound disrespect and disregard for the realities of
immigrants and refugees in this country. He's come out of nowhere."

But the 36-year-old Kobach is getting major kudos from Justice Department
leaders for his work. His academic credentials are impressive: a bachelor's
degree from Harvard, a doctorate in political science from Oxford and a law
degree from Yale. That resumO helped catapult the professor at the University of
Missouri at Kansas City into an elite category of 12 White House fellows, chosen
from hundreds of applicants nationwide. Their one-year fellowship began Sept. 1;
each was assigned to a Cabinet member or the White House.

"We did not pick him. I actually didn't know him prior to him getting here, even
though I'm from Kansas City," said David Israelite, Attorney General John
Ashcroft's deputy chief of staff. "We learned about what his talents were, and
then he got significantly involved in those areas. Kris Kobach comes to us with
a very impressive legal background, and he's been working on a number of
immigration matters. (He's) a very sharp guy."

Kobach did not respond to requests for an interview.

He's no stranger to controversy. Kobach, the son of a Topeka, Kan., car dealer,
won his first political race in April 1999 - to the Overland Park City Council.
The same month, he wrote an opinion piece for the Kansas City Star critical of
both the Missouri and the Kansas legislatures suggesting that "sloppy lawmaking"
was the result of the low number of lawyers in both statehouses.

The Missouri Legislature's response: a vote to cut $2.9 million from UMKC, where
Kobach taught constitutional law. They thought better of it later and restored
the funding.

Now, even the lawmaker who sponsored the cuts is a fan. Rep. Dennis Bonner,
D-Independence, said he met Kobach that summer at the law school, where Bonner
happened to be a part-time student.

"I was signed up for a fall class with him, and I went in and I said, 'I'll just
drop it,' but he said no," Bonner said. "I have nothing but good things to say
about him. Whatever impact he's had on these new policies, I'm sure has been one
of professionalism. As Americans, I think we're all lucky to have him there. I'm
sure the university will be glad to get him back, but I'll be a little surprised
if he does."

Indeed, Kobach's brief tenure in public service is an ambitious one. Eleven
months after his election to the city council, he filed to run for a Kansas
state Senate seat but lost in the Republican primary. His resumO says he was the
"youngest faculty member to achieve the rank of tenured full professor" at UMKC.

And he has not been shy about expressing his opinion on national issues. During
Ashcroft's heated confirmation hearings last year, Kobach defended his
boss-to-be, citing research in interviews with the national media to debunk
suggestions that Ashcroft was racist because as a senator he had blocked Judge
Ronnie White's nomination to the federal bench.

Quoted in salon.com, Kobach noted that Ashcroft had voted for 26 of 28 black
judges nominated during President Bill Clinton's administration.

The White House fellowships, created when Lyndon B. Johnson was president, have
a reputation for producing national leaders. Two current Cabinet members are
alumni fellows: Secretary of State Colin Powell was chosen for the 1972-73
class; Labor Secretary Elaine Chao in 1983-84.

Another alum of the White House fellowships - Chief Judge Deanell Reece Tacha of
the 10th U.S. Circuit Court of Appeals - prodded Kobach to apply.

"He has an enormous amount of what I call constructive energy," said Tacha, who
hired Kobach as her clerk after he graduated from law school. "He does very
rigorous research, and I thought he had exactly the right talents and abilities
for the program. (It) was a life-changing program for me ... At the Department
of Labor, I worked on a lot of really major labor issues at the time. And now
Kris is right at the cutting edge of policy. I would not be surprised at all to
see him go on in public service."

LOAD-DATE: June 6, 2002

LANGUAGE: English

NOTES: Reporter Karen Branch-Brioso E-mail: kbranch@post-dispatch.com Phone:
202-298-6880

GRAPHIC: PHOTO; Photo Headshot - (Kris) Kobach, Some advocates for immigrants
aren't impressed

TYPE: PROFILE; NEW ANTI-TERRORIST TRACKING SYSTEM; NATIONAL SECURITY ENTRY-EXIT
REGISTRATION SYSTEM; KRIS KOBACH; SIDEBAR STORY

                  Copyright 2002 St. Louis Post-Dispatch, Inc.


                              136 of 275 DOCUMENTS

                       St. Louis Post-Dispatch (Missouri)

                  June 11, 2002 Tuesday Five Star Lift Edition

AT A GLANCE

BYLINE: From News Services

SECTION: NEWS; Nation/World At A Glance Column; Pg. A9

LENGTH: 343 words


WASHINGTON

Yemenis face searches as they enter, leave U.S.

Acting on "credible information" from law enforcement, Immigration and
Naturalization Service agents are searching all citizens of Yemen before they
enter or leave the United States.

A Justice Department official speaking on condition of anonymity said Monday
that the INS has asked commercial airlines and large U.S. charter flight
operators to notify the agency when they have Yemeni passengers.

A spokeswoman for the Air Transportation Association of America, which
represents all major U.S. commercial airlines, confirmed its members are
cooperating with the immigration service.

The Justice Department source would not say which law enforcement agency sought
the search of Yemeni nationals or why. Yemeni passengers and their baggage are
being searched and their passports and other documents checked, he said.

Yemen has condemned the Sept. 11 attacks, but al-Qaida operatives and armed
groups linked to the terrorist network are known to operate there. Eleven months
before the attacks on Washington and New York, terrorists blasted a hole in the
side of the destroyer Cole during a refueling stop in Yemen, killing 17 sailors.

MOROCCO

Three suspected al-Qaida members are arrested

Morocco has arrested three Saudis suspected of being members of al-Qaida
planning "terrorist attacks" on U.S. and British ships in the Straits of
Gibraltar, a senior government official said Monday.

"Morocco's security services have dismantled a network of al-Qaida who planned
terrorist attacks on U.S. and British warships crossing the Straits of
Gibraltar. ... It was a successful operation," said the official, who declined
to be named. He was speaking at a private briefing in Skhirat, 15 miles south of
Rabat.

The official said the three men, holding Saudi passports, were arrested in
Morocco last month. He declined to name them, saying only they were between the
ages of 25 and 35.

He said the men planned to sail small dinghies carrying explosives into the
Straits of Gibraltar.

LOAD-DATE: June 11, 2002

LANGUAGE: English

NOTES: WAR ON TERROR

                  Copyright 2002 St. Louis Post-Dispatch, Inc.


                              137 of 275 DOCUMENTS

                       St. Louis Post-Dispatch (Missouri)

                   June 22, 2002 Saturday Three Star Edition

LAW OFFICERS ARREST HUNDREDS OF FOREIGNERS IN CRACKDOWN ON ALIENS WITH EXPIRED
VISAS

BYLINE: The Associated Press

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 26

LENGTH: 372 words

DATELINE: NEWARK, N.J.


* About 700 of 1,000 "absconders" on a government list have been rounded up in a
new get-tough policy. Critics say those arrested aren't terrorists and are being
made scapegoats.

For years, foreigners arrested in the United States for overstaying their visas
have often been let go with a promise that they leave the country. Not
surprisingly, many never did leave.

For the past six months, however, the government has been quietly re-arresting
many of these "absconders" on a Justice Department list about 1,000 names long.

"We believe some of them have information that could assist our campaign against
terrorism," Deputy Attorney General Larry Thompson wrote in a Jan. 25 memo sent
to the Immigration and Naturalization Service, the FBI, the U.S. Marshals
Service and other agencies.

As of Friday, 708 of the approximately 1,000 people on the government list had
been arrested under what is being called the Alien Absconder Apprehension
Initiative, INS spokeswoman Nancy Cohen said.

INS spokesman Russ Bergeron and other immigration officials would not say if any
of those arrested had links to terrorism.

Attorneys for immigrants said the government is arresting foreigners to give the
appearance it is winning the war on terrorism.

"It's just a public relations stunt," said Sohail Mohammed, an immigration
lawyer who has represented many New Jersey detainees caught in the government's
post-Sept. 11 sweep.

"The problem is the government has no clue who is coming or going across its
borders."

As many as 314,000 absconders are in the United States, according to Justice
Department estimates, and about 5,900 of those are from nations where Osama bin
Laden's terrorist network is known to operate.

Once they are taken into custody, the FBI is notified. If the illegal immigrants
are cleared by the FBI, they are held until they can be deported.

"These guys are being scapegoated," said Sandra Nichols, a New York immigration
lawyer who represents several alien absconders being held in New Jersey jails.
"They're being treated excessively harshly because it's easier to do that than
to look at how our government dropped the ball before Sept. 11. These guys are
not terrorists. They're all overstays."

LOAD-DATE: June 22, 2002

LANGUAGE: English

NOTES: NATION / WORLD

                  Copyright 2002 St. Louis Post-Dispatch, Inc.


                              138 of 275 DOCUMENTS

                       St. Louis Post-Dispatch (Missouri)

                 June 27, 2002 Thursday Five Star Lift Edition

ADMINSTRATION DEFENDS HOLDING SECRET HEARINGS

BYLINE: The Associated Press

SECTION: NEWS ; Pg. A6

LENGTH: 264 words

DATELINE: WASHINGTON


Irreversible damage to national security would result if news reporters or the
public are allowed into immigration hearings for foreign terrorism suspects, the
administration argued before the Supreme Court Wednesday.

The high court could rule as soon as today on whether to block a federal judge's
ruling against the government on the issue.

"If these proceedings are opened to the public during the critical phase of the
urgent threat to national security, terrorist organizations will have direct
access to information about the government's ongoing investigation," Solicitor
General Theodore Olson wrote in an emergency court filing.

That sensitive information could include the identities of foreign detainees,
evidence of their links to terrorism and clues to how much the government knows
about wider terrorist operations, Olson wrote.

The detention issue is the first time the Supreme Court has directly considered
a dispute arising from the government's response to the attacks on Sept. 11. The
administration first took the matter to the high court last week.

Civil rights and media organizations are seeking names and other information for
an unknown number of foreigners held by the Immigration and Naturalization
Service since Sept. 11.

Some may have ties to terrorists, and the government could close such hearings
on a case-by-case basis, U.S. District Judge John Bissell ruled last month. But
Bissell said it is unconstitutional to impose a blanket policy closing all
detention or deportation hearings that the government calls special-interest
cases.

LOAD-DATE: June 27, 2002

LANGUAGE: English

                  Copyright 2002 St. Louis Post-Dispatch, Inc.


                              139 of 275 DOCUMENTS

                       St. Louis Post-Dispatch (Missouri)

                  July 9, 2002 Tuesday Five Star Lift Edition

ST. PETERS MAN WITH NAZI PAST IS ORDERED OUT OF U.S.;
 81-YEAR-OLD WAS GUARD AT CONCENTRATION CAMPS DURING WORLD WAR II

BYLINE: Peter Shinkle Of The Post-Dispatch

SECTION: METRO ; Pg. B1

LENGTH: 531 words


A federal immigration judge has ordered the deportation of an 81-year-old St.
Peters man who served as a guard at two Nazi concentration camps during World
War II.

Immigration Judge Bruce W. Solow ordered Michael Negele deported to Romania,
where he was born. The deportation proceedings began last year after a federal
appeals court upheld a 1999 ruling by U.S. District Judge Richard Webber that
revoked Negele's citizenship.

The courts found that Negele hid his Nazi past when he applied for a visa to
enter this country in 1950 and applied to become a naturalized citizen in 1955.
Negele testified that he never misled authorities. And his attorneys argued that
the government had failed to prove that Negele had participated in abusive
treatment of prisoners.

But Solow, in his ruling, said that Negele was "armed with a trained attack dog
that had the capability of inflicting great bodily harm on prisoners," and that
that was sufficient to find that he assisted in persecution.

Justice Department spokeswoman Jill Stillman said Monday that Negele is a "Nazi
war criminal" and as such can be deported under a 1978 law.

Negele and his attorney, Warren Hoff, could not be reached for comment.

Solow is an immigration judge in Miami who was appointed to a St. Louis
immigration court to handle the Negele case. He issued his ruling Wednesday; the
Justice Department announced it Monday.

Solow's ruling found that Negele served from November 1943 through June 1944 as
an armed SS Death's Head Batallion guard of prisoners at the Sachsenhausen
concentration camp near Berlin. There, he was selected for training in the use
of a guard dog.

Solow also said Jews and others from throughout Europe suffered physical abuse
and death at Sachsenhausen because they were considered enemies of the Nazi
state.

The ruling said Negele later served through the end of the war as a guard of
prisoners at the Theresienstadt Jewish ghetto near Prague, which held Jews as
part of the Nazi regime's persecution of the Jewish people.

Theresienstadt functioned as a way station for the Nazi extermination facilities
at Auschwitz and Treblinka. About 10,000 prisoners died in the ghetto, and
thousands more passed through Theresienstadt en route to extermination
elsewhere.

The judge's ruling cited Nazi documents found by the Justice Department's Office
of Special Investigations.

Assistant Attorney General Michael Chertoff said in a statement that Negele bore
some responsibility for the countless deaths and the brutality carried out under
the Nazi regime's genocidal plan.

"Guards such as Negele made these crimes possible and are not entitled to the
privilege of continued U.S. residence," he said.

Eli Rosenbaum, director of the Justice Department's Office of Special
Investigations, said "time has not diminished our resolve to hold accountab le
those who helped make the Holocaust a reality. This ruling is an important step
in this continuing effort."

Sixty-eight Nazi persecutors have been stripped of U.S. citizenship, and 56 have
been removed from this country since the Office of Special In vestigations began
its operations in 1979, the Justice Department said.

LOAD-DATE: July 9, 2002

LANGUAGE: English

NOTES: Reporter Peter Shinkle: E-mail: pshinkle@post-dispatch.com Phone:
314-621-5804

                  Copyright 2002 St. Louis Post-Dispatch, Inc.


                              140 of 275 DOCUMENTS

                       St. Louis Post-Dispatch (Missouri)

                July 9, 2002 Tuesday Illinois Five Star Edition

MAN WITH NAZI PAST IS ORDERED OUT OF U.S.;
 ST. PETERS RESIDENT WAS GUARD AT TWO CONCENTRATION CAMPS;
 HE APPLIED FOR VISA IN 1950

BYLINE: Peter Shinkle Of The Post-Dispatch

SECTION: METRO ; Pg. B3

LENGTH: 559 words


A federal immigration judge has ordered the deportation of an 81-year-old St.
Peters man who served as a guard at two Nazi concentration camps during World
War II.

Immigration Judge Bruce W. Solow ordered Michael Negele deported to Romania,
where he was born. The deportation proceedings began last year after a federal
appeals court upheld a 1999 ruling by U.S. District Judge Richard Webber that
revoked Negele's citizenship.

The courts found that Negele hid his Nazi past when he applied for a visa to
enter this country in 1950 and applied to become a naturalized citizen in 1955.

Negele testified that he never misled authorities. And his attorneys argued that
the government had failed to prove that Negele had participated in abusive
treatment of prisoners.

But Solow, in his ruling, said that Negele was "armed with a trained attack dog
that had the capability of inflicting great bodily harm on prisoners," and that
that was sufficient to find that he assisted in persecution.

Justice Department spokeswoman Jill Stillman said Monday that Negele is a "Nazi
war criminal" and as such can be deported under a 1978 law.

Negele and his attorney, Warren Hoff, could not be reached for comment.

Solow is an immigration judge in Miami who was appointed to a St. Louis
immigration court to handle the Negele case.

He issued his ruling Wednesday; the Justice Department announced it Monday.

Solow's ruling found that Negele served from November 1943 through June 1944 as
an armed SS Death's Head Batallion guard of prisoners at the Sachsenhausen
concentration camp near Berlin.

There, he was selected for training in the use of a guard dog.

Solow also said Jews and other civilians from throughout Europe suffered
inhumane forms of physical abuse and death at Sachsenhausen because they were
considered enemies of the Nazi state.

The ruling said Negele later served through the end of the war as a guard of
prisoners at the Theresienstadt Jewish ghetto near Prague, which held Jews as
part of the Nazi regime's persecution of the Jewish people.

Theresienstadt functioned as a way station for the Nazi extermination facilities
at Auschwitz and Treblinka.

About 10,000 prisoners died in the ghetto, and thousands more passed through
Theresienstadt en route to extermination elsewhere.

The judge's ruling cited Nazi documents found by the Justice Department's Office
of Special Investigations.

Assistant Attorney General Michael Chertoff said in a statement that Negele bore
some responsibility for the countless deaths and the brutality carried out under
the Nazi regime's genocidal plan.

"Guards such as Negele made these crimes possible and are not entitled to the
privilege of continued U.S. residence," he said.

Eli Rosenbaum, director of the Justice Department's Office of Special
Investigations, said "time has not diminished our resolve to hold accountable
those who helped make the Holocaust a reality. This ruling is an important step
in this continuing effort."

Stillman said the department has a legal mandate to remove from the United
States those who engaged in Nazi persecution of Jews and others.

Sixty-eight Nazi persecutors have been stripped of U.S. citizenship, and 56 have
been removed from this country since the Office of Special Investigations began
its operations in 1979, the Justice Department said.

LOAD-DATE: July 9, 2002

LANGUAGE: English

NOTES: Reporter Peter Shinkle: E-mail: pshinkle@post-dispatch.com Phone:
314-621-5804

                  Copyright 2002 St. Louis Post-Dispatch, Inc.


                              141 of 275 DOCUMENTS

                       St. Louis Post-Dispatch (Missouri)

                 August 26, 2002 Monday Five Star Lift Edition

AFGHAN DETAINEE HELD IN ILLINOIS IS TRANSFERRED DAYS BEFORE HEARING HERE;
 HE COULD BE DEPORTED WITHIN WEEKS, SAYS OFFICIAL IN AFGHAN CONSULATE

BYLINE: Imran Vittachi Of The Post-Dispatch

SECTION: NEWS ; Pg. A6

LENGTH: 644 words

DATELINE: ULLIN, ILL.


Just days before Attorney General John Ashcroft and immigration officials were
due to tell a federal judge in East St. Louis why they needed to keep an Afghan
national in custody for more than 10 months, he was moved to Texas.

The Immigration and Naturalization Service has held Mohamad Dawlatzai, 38, under
a pending deportation order since October. In April, he filed a complaint in
U.S. District Court.

The complaint alleges that Ashcroft and the INS have violated Dawlatzai's Fifth
Amendment right to "due process" by detaining him for more than six months at
the Tri-County Detention Center in Ullin.

On Aug. 12 or 13, the INS moved Dawlatzai and 103 other foreign detainees to
Haskell, Texas. Three weeks earlier - on July 23 - U.S. District Judge G.
Patrick Murphy in East St. Louis gave Ashcroft and the INS until late August to
respond to Dawlatzai's complaint.

Dawlatzai was arrested in 1994 at O'Hare Airport in Chicago when Customs
officers found heroin in his suitcase. He was convicted in 1995 a nd served six
years in prison.

After his release on Oct. 29 last year, INS officers arrested him on a pending
deportation order and sent him to Tri-County.

Despite Dawlatzai's criminal conviction, the U.S. Supreme Court has said that a
detainee who is held for more than six months can demand that the government
explain why the detainee's release would threaten national security.

If the government cannot make a persuasive argument, the detainee must be
released.

The timing of Dawlatzai's transfer to Texas was a coincidence, said Cindy
O'Connell, deputy director of the INS' Chicago district office.

His transfer was purely the result of his narcotics conviction, she said. She
also said she would have to examine Dawlatzai's file to learn why it had taken
more than 10 months to arrange his expulsion.

O'Connell said she was unaware of Dawlatzai's complaint against Ashcroft.

The complaint lodged by Dawlatzai "had nothing to do with his being moved," said
O'Connell. "We just needed beds."

Before Dawlatzai was moved, he had agreed to an interview with a Post-Dispatch
reporter on Aug. 15. It took INS officials several days to approve the
interview, but he was moved to Texas before it took place.

Jack Parks, an INS official who works at Ullin, told the Post-Dispatch on Aug.
15 that its mid-July interview with Dawlatzai during Saturday public visitation
hours had not been authorized.

Parks said the reporter would not be allowed to visit any other Ullin inmates
without prior INS permission.

During the "unauthorized" interview, Dawlatzai granted permission to the
reporter to meet with him during visiting hours. The reporter also identified
himself to a guard at Tri-County.

"I don't know why I'm here," Dawlatzai said. "I'm confused.

Dawlatzai is a former mujahedeen guerrilla who said that he had fought the Red
Army in the 1980s during the Soviet occupation of his homeland. He arrived in
the United States as a refugee in 1993. But he said he is willing to return to
Afghanistan if he must. Dawlatzai said he wanted to use carpentry and building
skills he learned in prison to help rebuild his country.

He may get that chance. A few days after Dawlatzai was moved to Texas, the INS
notified the Afghan consulate in New York for the first time that it was
proceeding with his deportation order.

Faridun Kul of the consulate's office said Dawlatzai could be deported "within
two to three weeks."

If that happens, he will leave behind his Afghan-born wife, who is a naturalized
American, and their 8-year-old son, who was born here.

Dawlatzai's wife, who asked to remain anonymous, said in a telephone interview
that her marriage had been arranged by family.

"I feel hopeless," she said. "The whole time he has been (in jail), I hardly
knew him. But I cannot go back with him to Afghanistan. It is not safe."

LOAD-DATE: August 26, 2002

LANGUAGE: English

TYPE: PROFILE; MOHAMAD DAWLATZAI

                  Copyright 2002 St. Louis Post-Dispatch, Inc.


                              142 of 275 DOCUMENTS

                       St. Louis Post-Dispatch (Missouri)

                  June 24, 2001 Sunday Five Star Lift Edition

BOOM IN OTHER U.S. CITIES HASN'T MATERIALIZED HERE, CENSUS NUMBERS SHOW

BYLINE: Phillip O'Connor Of The Post-Dispatch

SECTION: METRO; Pg. C1

LENGTH: 1386 words


* Some say the immigrant population hasn't swelled here because the area is far
from any natural overseas port of entry or from traditional migratory labor
routes.. Experts suggest the slower economy here also is a factor.

The immigration boom that swelled some of the nation's fastest growing
metropolitan areas and helped make up for decades of flight to suburbs in many
others largely bypassed St. Louis during the 1990s.

Among the 25 largest metropolitan areas, the St. Louis region ranked third from
the bottom in the number of immigrants gained, according to Census Bureau
estimates up to 1999. Only the Pittsburgh and Cleveland areas drew fewer
foreign-born people. St. Louis would have been even closer to the bottom if not
for about 13,100 refugees resettled from overseas during the 1990s.

But even that influx of Bosnian, Vietnamese, Russian and Iraqi refugees and
other immigrants did not prevent St. Louis from experiencing the fourth-largest
population loss over the past decade among large cities nationwide. Meanwhile,
the metropolitan area experienced less growth than many others.

Demographers, planners, academics and others offer a variety of theories for the
lack of immigrants settling in the region.

The metropolitan area sits a great distance from any natural overseas port of
entry or from traditional migratory labor routes. It also lacks any large
established ethnic communities like Spanish Harlem in New York, Chinatown in San
Francisco or Little Havana in Miami.

And unlike Chicago, Seattle or Los Angeles, St. Louis lacks any recent history
as a gateway for immigrants.

"There's been no big immigrant experience here that would create word of mouth
that would want to make other immigrants move here," said David Laslo, an
analyst with the Public Policy Research Center at the University of Missouri at
St. Louis.

Little here for low-skilled

Experts also point to a local economy that grew more slowly during the past
decade than those of many other American cities. That made St. Louis a less
attractive destination for job-seekers. The area also offers little in the way
of garment shops, meat packing, seasonal agriculture or other piecework that
often are strong draws for low-skilled immigrant workers.

With few low-skill jobs available, immigrants who move to St. Louis tend to be
better-educated, professionals or to have certain skills that make for better
employment opportunities.

In many cases, those higher-paid immigrants are spreading out across the St.
Louis region, following a growing pattern among recent arrivals to bypass
traditional ethnic enclaves in urban neighborhoods in favor of the suburbs.

"The people who come here are pretty much already acculturated and don't want to
just go to a nice, safe situation where they don't have to speak English," said
Ann Rynearson, director of cultural and community services for the International
Institute, a St. Louis refugee relocation agency.

Rynearson believes the Census Bureau estimates are just plain wrong and that the
number of immigrants here is much higher. More detailed numbers on the immigrant
population will be available later this year when figures from the 2000 census
are released for all immigrants. Figures are currently available for Asians and
Hispanics. International Institute officials conservatively estimate that
100,000 foreign-born people live in the metropolitan area. Of those, nearly
47,000 are refugees.

The 2000 census figures that show St. Louis gained only 2,000 Hispanics in the
last 10 years are ridiculous, Rynearson said.

"Just drive down Cherokee Street," she said, in reference to the burgeoning
Hispanic commercial district.

Contrasts with early history

The apparent lack of a current-day wave of immigrants to St. Louis stands in
broad contrast with the city's early history, when a huge influx of Germans,
Irish and other Europeans built the churches, parks and industries that helped
muscle the city onto the world stage.

On the eve of the Civil War, St. Louis ranked first in the nation in the
proportion of foreign-born people. By 1900, the city still stood seventh among
the 25 largest American cities in number of foreign-born people and 17th in
percentage of foreign-born.

The lack of immigrant growth in the region today contrasts with the swelling of
immigrant numbers in places such as New York, Boston and Chicago that is helping
those cities halt decades of population loss by compensating for white flight to
the suburbs.

At the same time, second-tier cities, including Las Vegas, Phoenix, Denver and
Charlotte, N.C., also recorded huge population increases largely because of an
influx of immigrants.

"The traditional white-black mix in a lot of cities is being enriched with
Asians and Hispanics, including some huge concentrations in places you might not
necessarily think," said Sam Davis, a U.S. Census Bureau demographer.

One out of every 10 U.S. residents - about 28 million - is foreign-born,
according to a recent Census Bureau report.

Most of the cities that rank near the bottom in attracting large numbers of
immigrants are industrial centers that once relied on foreign-born workers to
operate factories and mills, such as Baltimore, Cincinnati and Detroit.

"Clearly, these were all cities that 100 years ago were immigrant hubs, and
there's no reason why they couldn't be again," said Mike Duncan, a St. Louis
County planner.

Some cities, including Boston, Philadelphia and Pittsburgh, are aggressively
recruiting newcomers in hopes of adding to their labor forces and reviving urban
neighborhoods.

Such workers will become even more important as baby boomers begin to retire and
the demand for both skilled and unskilled labor increases.

No such coordinated effort is under way in St. Louis, officials say.

Francis Yueh, who came to America 15 years ago from Taiwan, considers St. Louis
a well-kept secret.

"To immigrants outside of this country, St. Louis is not really well known,"
Yueh said. "So when people elect to come to this country, St. Louis is not on
the top of the list."

Yueh, who settled in the St. Louis area after completing college, now works as a
computer programmer for a bank.

"The longer we stay here the more we love St. Louis," he said. "We have no
problems like in a big city with gangs or violence."

The city's cultural attractions, affordable housing and other amenities also
make St. Louis a great place to live, Yueh said.

"In a large city, you get lost," he said. "If a city is too small, you cannot
find a job. St. Louis is a very good size."

Yueh expressed surprise that the area ranked low in the number of immigrants. He
said the Asian population seems to be growing by leaps and bounds.

It has been. According to 2000 census figures, the region's Asian and Hispanic
population each grew by 50 percent over the past decade. Still, combined they
make up only 3 percent of the region's population.

Hema Patel said she can walk into her local grocery at midnight and chances are
she'll run into an Indian acquaintance. Patel, 35, came to the U.S. in 1979 to
attend school. She and her family operate two stores that cater to the Indian
population.

"I live in Maryland Heights, and I think half the population is from India," she
said. "It's like Little India here."

Some, like Rynearson, think the gradual immigrant growth occurring here may be
to the city's benefit.

"We've been able to gradually absorb the newcomers," she said.

In doing so, the St. Louis region avoided the problems encountered by many
metropolitan areas, where education and social service systems were overwhelmed
by large numbers of immigrants.

Still, Duncan, the St. Louis County planner, said he doubted that any of the
cities that experienced large population growth would trade places with St.
Louis. In many cases, immigrants are providing the entrepreneurial efforts that
are helping to revitalize once-declining areas, he said.

"It's always been one of America's advantages that immigrants are risk-takers,"
Duncan said. "That kind of spirit and energy is the kind of thing that's hard to
quantify, but it's the kind of thing you want in your community. Having that
makes up for having to spend more money on public transportation or
English-as-second-language classes in the schools."

LOAD-DATE: June 24, 2001

LANGUAGE: English

NOTES: INFLUX OF IMMIGRANTS; Reporter Phillip O'Connor:; E-mail:
poconnor@post-dispatch.com; Phone: 314-340-8321

GRAPHIC: PHOTO, GRAPHIC; (1) Color Photo by J.B. FORBES / POST-DISPATCH -
Enrique Valencia, 24, weighs pork for a customer at the Carniceria El Torito, a
Mexican grocery, on Cherokee Street at Iowa Avenue on Thursday. Valencia came to
St. Louis from Mexico a couple years ago. Census figures indicate the area
gained 2,000 Hispanic immigrants in the last decade, but one official who works
with immigrants here says that figure is low.; ; (2) Graphic/chart - Number of
new immigrants from 1990-99, according to the U.S. Census Bureau; New York
.....................  974,599; Los Angeles-Long Beach .......  902,097; Chicago
......................  366,607; Miami ........................ 337,174;
Washington ...................  240,117; Orange County, Calif. ........
233,168; Houston ......................  209,859; San Diego ....................
164,016; Boston .......................  137,313; Oakland, Calif. ..............
135,027; Dallas ....................... 132,574; Riverside-San Bernardino,
Calif. 119,038; Philadelphia .................  91,672; Atlanta
......................  82,580; Seattle-Bellevue-Everett .....  79,353;
Nassau-Suffolk, N.Y. ......... 70,812; Detroit ......................  68,449;
Phoenix-Mesa .................  62,280; Minneapolis- St. Paul ........  45,981;
Tampa-St. Petersburg, Fla. ...  42,826; Denver ....................... 41,029;
Baltimore ....................  32,727; St. Louis ....................  25,310;
Cleveland ....................  17,247;
Pittsburgh ...................    8,935

TYPE: PROFILE; IMMIGRATION; ST. LOUIS AREA

                  Copyright 2001 St. Louis Post-Dispatch, Inc.


                              143 of 275 DOCUMENTS

                       St. Louis Post-Dispatch (Missouri)

               August 17, 2000, Thursday, FIVE STAR LIFT EDITION

BOSNIAN YOUTH HELPS YOUNG IMMIGRANTS ADJUST HERE;
HE WORKS WITH A RED CROSS PROGRAM THAT ALLOWS TEENS TO LEARN THEIR NEW CULTURE

BYLINE: Greg Jonsson; Of The Post-DispatchIMMIGRANTS; FOREIGNERS; REFUGEES;
TEENAGERS; STUDENTS; RESETTLEMENT; ACCLIMATING

SECTION: METRO, Pg. B1

LENGTH: 462 words


* He works with a Red Cross program that allows teens to learn their new
culture.

Being a teen-ager is tough anyway, but being one in a strange place where you
don't know the language, the city or even the sports teams is even harder.

That's why Dario Petric decided to help.

Petric, 17, came to St. Louis from Germany after his family fled war-ravaged
Bosnia. After two years here, he knows which high schools are which, what the
Gateway Arch is and how to play baseball and football.

But 15 Bosnian, Afghan and Iranian teens who recently arrived in Missouri didn't
know such things. So Petric joined an American Red Cross and International
Institute program to help the young refugees adjust to American culture.

"I work with the new teen-agers to show them their new home," said Petric, who
speaks three languages. "They ask, 'What is the Arch?' They don't know anything
about this land. I was their connection."

The new St. Louisans hit the mall, the library and most popular of all, Six
Flags St. Louis, during the six-week program. They also began learning English,
CPR and the rules of baseball, to give them "a jump-start on school," said Dana
Wright, coordinator of the program for the Red Cross.

The program wound down Wednesday with an awards ceremony at Tower Grove Park.
Students received framed awards, and Target provided each one with a backpack
full of school supplies. Most will enter the eighth or ninth grade at area
middle and high schools.

Petric said the program would give the new arrivals a leg up that he didn't have
when he arrived.

"They landed on this ground and they don't know anything about it. They're
strangers," Petric said. "But teen-agers learn quickly. They know the basic
stuff. I told them how it will be in school, that it will be hard for awhile,
and then they'll get used to it."

Soon after the dignitaries left Wednesday's awards ceremony, a water-balloon
fight broke out, then a watermelon-eating contest. Petric emerged wet and
stained red from the activities.

Petric said many of the teens were shy and nervous at first. Besides the
culture, they didn't know each other. Now they chase each other with water
balloons in flowing alliances. They yell, switching from their native languages
to English and back again without taking a breath.

They also are getting used to the culture. Some want to be baseball stars,
others doctors and one wants to go to California to be an actor.

And that was the goal of the 2-year-old program.

"It's really helped them get used to the environment and the way of life here,"
said Basadi Ntshutelang, 34, who came here recently from Botswana in southern
Africa. She also is helping with the program. "They've met new friends and
different people."

LOAD-DATE: August 17, 2000

LANGUAGE: English

GRAPHIC: PHOTO COLOR PHOTO by J.B. FORBES/POST-DISPATCH - Three teens who moved
here recently from Bosnia have fun on a hot afternoon Wednesday at Tower Grove
Park. They were participating in an awards ceremony and farewell picnic for
about 15 teen immigrants sponsored by the American Red Cross and International
Institute. They are (from left) Ermin Brkic, 15, Said Hodzic, 15, and Asmir
Muratovic, 13.

                  Copyright 2000 St. Louis Post-Dispatch, Inc.


                              144 of 275 DOCUMENTS

                       St. Louis Post-Dispatch (Missouri)

               August 24, 2000, Thursday, FIVE STAR LIFT EDITION

RETHINKING BILINGUAL EDUCATION

SECTION: EDITORIAL, Pg. B6

LENGTH: 369 words



PROPOSITION 227

CALIFORNIA'S bitter debate over bilingual education, which culminated two years
ago in the passage of Proposition 227, seethed with anti-immigrant undertones.
At times, bilingual education seemed to serve as a proxy for immigrants
themselves, an easy target for voters fed up with foreigners and an easy way for
politicians to exploit their anger.

When 61 percent of voters approved the measure in June 1998 and most bilingual
classes were declared off-limits, many educators forecast disaster for
California's million Spanish-speaking students. Critics said the immediate
immersion in English would devastate those students and their academic careers.

Last week, California's standardized test scores surfaced and the doomsday
predications fizzled. Not only did statewide test scores improve overall for
California students, but non-English speakers posted gains that roughly matched
those of fluent English speakers. And according to an Associated Press interview
with Ron Unz, the software millionaire who fi nanced the drive to end bilingual
education, scores improved most in the school districts that followed
Proposition 227 and its mandate for immersion most closely.

Critics quickly registered their reservations. The current standardized test
does not adequately gauge the progress of non-English speakers. The scores still
are too abysmally low to celebrate, and the gains were concentrated in the early
grades. California's new push toward accountability -- with its increased
emphasis on test preparation and smaller class sizes -- deserves more credit
than Proposition 227.

Those qualms are valid, and at least one -- the concern about the current test's
appropriateness for assessing the progress of limited-English students -- has
sparked a move by California officials to develop a more accurate measure.

For now, though, these tests remain the most reliable gauge available. And they
suggest that, at the very least, the end of bilingual education may not hurt
immigrant academic success. In fact, they imply exactly the opposite: That early
immersion may be the best way to ensure that students master their new language
and succeed in their new home.

LOAD-DATE: August 24, 2000

LANGUAGE: English

                  Copyright 2000 St. Louis Post-Dispatch, Inc.


                              145 of 275 DOCUMENTS

                       St. Louis Post-Dispatch (Missouri)

                  August 27, 2000, Sunday, THREE STAR EDITION

DROWNING OF CUBAN BROTHERS HIGHLIGHTS OPPOSITION TO U.S. IMMIGRATION POLICY

BYLINE: The Associated Press

SECTION: NEWS, Pg. A14

LENGTH: 531 words

DATELINE: COLON, CUBACUBA; U.S. IMMIGRATION POLICY; DEATHS


Daisy Bueno watched her two sons walk out of their simple wooden home two weeks
ago, lured by what she calls a "cruel" promise of residency in the United
States.

She choked back tears explaining why she never saw them again: their shark-torn
bodies appeared a day later in the Florida Straits.

The deaths of the two young men on Aug. 9 - less than two months after Cuba won
a standoff over the custody of 6-year-old Elian Gonzalez - highlight the island
nation's next battle: U.S. immigration policy on Cubans.

A billboard in Havana shouts "Down with the Cuban Adjustment Act," the U.S. law
that guarantees refugee status to Cubans - if they can make it across a
shark-infested stretch of ocean to America.

In an editorial Friday, the Cuban government newspaper, Granma, called it "The
Killer Law."

Cubans who have been unable to obtain a U.S. visa to emigrate see the law as
their only chance for economic advancement after living in a country where most
jobs are low-paying government positions.

Cuban President Fidel Castro complains that the law not only puts the lives of
Cubans at risk, it serves as a means for his political enemies to characterize
all people leaving Cuba as political refugees fleeing repression.

Bueno, the mother of Alexei Rodriguez, 20, and Juan Carlos Rodriguez, 23, says
of the law, "I think it's cruel." Bueno spoke in her tiny house in Colon, 100
miles east of Havana. Her sons' beds were neatly made, their clothes still
carefully hung in the closet.

"It's very dangerous, and it has destroyed many families, especially mothers,"
Bueno said. Her sons' dog, Chester, a boxer, gazed expectantly toward the door.

Asked about the U.S. policy, Niobel Gonzalez, Bueno's only surviving child,
said, "I think what all Cubans think, that it's unfair. The majority (of those
who try the crossing) don't get across the ocean."

There are no moves in Congress to change the law, which Havana says violates
U.S.-Cuba migration accords.

Bueno and Niobel say their family has received clothing and medicine from
relatives who made the journey to Miami in the 1980s.

Bueno said it might have been their success that inspired Alexia and Juan Carlos
to set off on their perilous journey without telling her. "I would have told
them not to do it," she said.

The Cuban government sees the new battle against the Cuban Adjustment Act as a
continuation of the fight over Elian, who was returned to Cuba on June 28 after
a seven-month custody battle.

Cubans have been asked to sign an oath that formalizes the government's
opposition to U.S. laws meant to isolate Cuba.

"The combat for the return of the kidnapped Cuban boy has become the first
episode of a much more prolonged struggle," the oath reads, adding that the case
has "unleashed a great battle . . . to end the causes which have led to so cruel
and sad an event."

But in the Bueno household, the debate over the Cuban Adjustment Act has ended.

Asked if she would ever try to emigrate to the United States - even legally -
Bueno gives an emphatic "no."

"I'm staying here. I think that if they tried and didn't make it, I don't want
to have anything to do with that place."

LOAD-DATE: August 27, 2000

LANGUAGE: English

                  Copyright 2000 St. Louis Post-Dispatch, Inc.


                              146 of 275 DOCUMENTS

                       St. Louis Post-Dispatch (Missouri)

               September 11, 2000, Monday, FIVE STAR LIFT EDITION

BUSINESS SERVICES FOR ST. LOUIS' IMMIGRANT ENTREPRENEURS CAN BE SPARSE

BYLINE: Elizabeth Freeman; Special To The Post-DispatchLBIZ; FOREIGNER; LANGUAGE
BARRIER; SMALL BUSINESS; START-UP; FUNDING PROBLEMS

SECTION: BUSINESS PLUS, Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1452 words


* Some business owners say the local governments should offer more services,
such as translation help. But local business officials say they have received
few requests to help non-English speakers set up businesses.

English is the international language of commerce.

However, if you don't speak English, even as a second language, how difficult is
it to set up a business in the metropolitan St. Louis area?

A limited command of English can be a formidable barrier to getting appropriate
business certification and licensing in this area to establishing a business,
some entrepreneurs say. But the hard-charging work ethic common to
small-business owners should enable them to work through, or around, language
barriers, others say.

Neither St. Louis City nor St. Louis County government have a formal mechanism
or liaison to address the needs of non-English-speaking business people.

As a result, many immigrants have turned to family, friends and natives of their
country who speak English.

When Alem Boric, a Bosnian, came to St. Louis in October 1998, he spoke no
English. Boric, who formerly owned a small game business in Bosnia, settled in
St. Louis because he had a cousin here.

Initially, Boric worked at a series of jobs, progressively improving his
English. When he came up with the idea of opening Europa Market on Gravois
Avenue in January 1999, he sought the help of Bosnian friends who spoke fluent
English.

Boric's business, which specializes in retail and wholesale food from Europe,
also sells foreign-language newspapers, videos, music cassettes, CDs and cooking
supplies.

"Every Bosnian's case is different, and it helps to have an established friend
who knows what's going on," said Boric. "It's hard to know about some things."

He said government could offer translation services to assist
non-English-speaking business owners.

"It would be a good idea to have some kind of public office to provide
translation services and to explain things like contracts," he said. "We really
don't have an organization for Bosnians here, and it's hard to know about
certain things like laws."

For their part, government officials say there are options for entrepreneurs
with limited English skills.

Gary O'Grady, vice president of business development for the St. Louis County
Economic Council, said his office hasn't received requests to help people who
speak little or no English set up businesses. In such cases, O'Grady recommends
contacting either the International Institute or the region's World Trade
Center, which could serve as a liaison to providers of translation services.
Costs for translation services vary depending on whether the translation
services provided will be oral, written or involve technical material. The
International Institute provides translation services in about 50 languages at a
cost of about $ 40 an hour, said Suzanne LeLaurin, the organization's director
of social work.

Robert Porter Jr., a business development specialist with the Business A
ssistance Office in St. Louis, says no formal provisions are in place to address
the needs of business people who speak little or no English. He noted that
several Hispanic business people have served as translators.

"I can see the need for translation services down the road if we are to become
an international city, but most business owners know some English," Porter said.

Tai Tran, owner of Mekong Restaurant and Kim Chi, a jewelry and gift shop, both
on South Grand Boulevard, agrees that language barriers can be difficult to
overcome.

Tran, a native of Vietnam, settled with relatives in Dayton, Ohio, after moving
to the United States in 1975.

When he came to St. Louis for a job in 1985, he spoke some English.  Although
his English had improved by 1990 when he planned to open his restaurant, Tran
says it was still difficult to negotiate the maze of rules and regulations
necessary to open a restaurant in St. Louis.

"Even with English, you have problems," said Tran, "because you don't know who
to talk to about ordinances.

"It would be good to have an organization to help people doing business. This
kind of information is very hard to find out, and I had to do it myself."

Hector Medina said he found the help he needed to set up his business f rom
friends, not from city government.

Medina, originally from Mexico's state of Michoacan, came to St. Louis in 1995
to work in the restaurant industry.

After he spent three years working for someone else, his wife suggested that
they start a business selling tamales. When Medina learned about a retail space
on Cherokee Street that was too large for just selling tamales, he decided about
two years ago to open El Torito, a market specializing in Mexican products and
prepared Mexican food for carryout.

"The business grows little by little, and a friend of mine became my partner to
help me start the business," he said. "It was hard to get started. You work many
hours."

Gilberto Pinela, president of the Hispanic Chamber of Commerce of Metropolitan
St. Louis and host of "Commercio Hispano," a radio business program aired in
both Spanish and English on KXEN radio (1010 AM), said he would like to see
bilingual government workers be available to help people understand
certification and licensing needs.

Pinela, a native of Puerto Rico, owns The Greenery Plant Company and a
communications business devoted to the development of Hispanic programming for
radio and television.

"Initially, Spanish (speaking) bilingual personnel would be helpful to work with
business people," said Pinela. "Eventually, I believe multilingual resources
would be helpful, too. "We have a large Spanish-speaking population here and
it's important for them to have someone to relate to."

The chamber helps Spanish-speaking business people with business networking and
understanding the services and programs offered by the U.S. Small Business
Administration and local governments. He said the chamber has
business-to-business and youth mentoring programs.

The chamber has almost 70 members, some of whom are not Hispanic.

"Nationally, Hispanic consumers spend over $ 420 billion yearly for consumer
goods," Pinela said. "Right now, corporate America is beginning to recognize
that. I am very spirited about the future of Hispanics in St. Louis, especially
in the business community.

"We have a hard-working group of people who want to contribute to the economy
and have a tremendous entrepreneurial spirit. We have to realize that potential
and begin to maximize it."

The International Institute in St. Louis has a microenterprise program for
refugees who want to set up a small business, said Ann Rynearson, director of
cultural and community services. The program, which began in 1997, has helped
almost 100 people. It offers technical support, training and development
assistance and help in putting together a business plan and obtaining
credentials and licenses.

The microenterprise program services are available to anyone who has come to St.
Louis within five years of gaining refugee designation from the federal
Immigration and Naturalization Service.

Jerry Lash, manager of marketing and finance for the SBA in St. Louis, says the
agency offers written materials in Spanish and has made offers within the
Bos-nian and Vietnamese communities in St. Louis to educate interested
individuals about setting up a small business.

While the SBA has no formal multilingual program, Lash believes using each
ethnic community's translation resources is most effective.

St. Louis Aldermanic President and mayoral candidate Francis Slay said city
government should do more to help non-English-speaking entrepreneurs.

"I think city government needs to have someone within the mayor's staff whose
specific responsibility it is to pay attention to non-Englis h-speaking or
ethnic businesses to improve government services and make sure that they can
help them to improve themselves and the neighborhoods they are in," he said.

Fatima Adegboye, a Nigerian who came to St. Louis in 1981 from Iowa, spoke
English as a second language when she came to the United States. She owns a
clothing business, African Images, in University City.

Adegboye believes determination to succeed is the most important quality for
business people who speak little or no English.

"America is not a land of opportunity if you don't work at it," she said. "You
could complain, but it is not about what the government is not doing.

"You may not be able to communicate fluently, but language is a means of
communication, not a barrier. You will be able to get your message across, one
way or another."

LOAD-DATE: September 11, 2000

LANGUAGE: English

GRAPHIC: PHOTO Color Photos by WENDI FITZGERALD / Post-Dispatch
 (1) Fatima Adegboye stands among mannequins in her store, African Images,
located in University City. Adegboye says determination is the most important
quality for immigrant business owners who speak little or no English. "You may
not be able to communicate fluently, but language is a means of communication,
not a barrier."
 (2) Alem Boric owns the Europa Market on Gravois Avenue. After he came here
from Bosnia in 1998, he learned English while working at different jobs.
English-speaking Bosnians helped him open his store in 1999. The market sells
European food and foreign-language newspapers and magazines.
 (3) Lorena Mondragon, 8, waits by the spices at El Torito, a Mexican market on
Cherokee Street. Owner Hector Medina and his wife were going to start a business
selling tamales, but a larger retail space opened up and the Medinas decided to
open a market.
 (4) The El Torito market on Cherokee Street caters to the St. Louis Hispanic
community. Francisco Solis Moreno takes a break from his job as a butcher.
Moreno speaks no English; customers speak to him in Spanish. Owner Hector Medina
moved here in 1995 from Mexico and opened El Torito three years later. (* Note:
This photo ran only on the Business Plus front page as a COVER PHOTO only.)


                  Copyright 2000 St. Louis Post-Dispatch, Inc.


                              147 of 275 DOCUMENTS

                       St. Louis Post-Dispatch (Missouri)

              September 24, 2000, Sunday, EARLY FIVE STAR EDITION

OUTREACH EFFORT REGISTERS 40 IMMIGRANTS TO VOTE IN THIS FALL'S ELECTIONS;
LOCAL AID OFFICIAL SAYS VOTING BLOC IS LIKELY TO EXPAND IN NEXT DECADE

BYLINE: Jim Getz; Of The Post-Dispatch55; 70; 44; POLITICS

SECTION: METRO, Pg. B1

LENGTH: 781 words


Sada Abdi grasped a voter punch for the first time Saturday and stabbed a hole
in a ballot: Betsy Ross for first lady.

Community organizer Karen Heitzman, who had shown Abdi how to vote, guided her
to a large ballot box perched on a nearby table.

"Can I put it in there?" Abdi asked quietly.

"Sure," replied Heitzman. "Go right ahead."

Abdi, satisfied she had completed the lesson, dropped the fake ballot into a
slot on top of the box.

Once a Somalian, Abdi, 45 and a seamstress, has been an American citizen for 11
years. Too busy to register to vote, she said.

But on Saturday, she was one of about 40 such people who took advantage of a
community outreach at the International Institute of Metro St. Louis to register
to vote in time for the election Nov. 7.

Forty new voters might not seem like that many. But they are a tiny symbol of a
potential voting population that could explode over the next decade into several
thousand, transforming politics in St. Louis.

"There are potentially thousands of voters out there," said Anna Crosslin,
president of the Institute, who believes immigrants could greatly shape local
elections to come. "How many thousands, I don't know. The (2000) census may help
us determine that. But how many elections are determined by a dozen votes?"

An analysis by the Post-Dispatch of data from the U.S. Immigration and
Naturalization Service shows that more than 7,700 immigrants were granted legal
permanent residence in St. Louis from Oct. 1, 1989, to Sept. 30, 1998.

It could take as long as two years from the application to the granting of legal
permanent residence. And that status is the doorway to citizenship -- and the
right to vote. After gaining permanent status, an immigrant must live in the
United States for an additional five years before applying for citizenship. Then
that process can take an additional year or two.

Given those time lags, the figures for permanent residents do not reflect the
size of the immigrant population beyond the mid-1990s.

Crosslin - whose institute alone sponsored and resettled more than 6,400
refugees in the St. Louis area from 1995-99 - said the immigrant population has
increased dramatically in the second half of the decade.

That increase could mean a lot of votes, she said, and local politicians already
are taking heed.

In the Bevo Mill neighborhood, she said, mailbox after mailbox sports a Bosnian
name, and aldermen are showing up to community meetings in such neighborhoods.

"They're realizing this is their constituency," Crosslin said.

Indeed, one of the translators on hand Saturday, Tai Tran, a fixture among
Vietnamese immigrants in St. Louis since 1985 and owner of the Mekong Restaurant
on South Grand Boulevard, knows Rep. Richard Gephardt, D-south St. Louis County.

"I've met him several times and admire him very much," Tran said. "He is one of
the true leaders."

But the importance of the immigrant population goes beyond name-dropping, Tran
emphasized.

"We know in the city the immigrant population is going up," he said. "We need
the voice of the immigrants to keep the multicultural activities in the city."

Crosslin said that voice often is muted because new immigrants never register to
vote. They either are not sure how private their vote will be or are embarrassed
to ask how to punch a vote card correctly.

Asking for help might not dawn on people who come from a culture where voting is
not an option.

Hence the Community Links registration outreach.

"I can tell you that our estimates of new Americans who reside in city
neighborhoods are in excess of 35,000 people," she said. "And I'm not talking
about the whole Hispanic population in the Cherokee area that could double that
number."

The first group of people are refugees admitted by act of Congress; the second
group includes anything from citizens to undocumented immigrants. Many in that
65,000 to 70,000 are, of course, too young to vote - but they won't be by the
end of the decade.

Al Gore, however, can count on four votes Nov. 7. Vahid Susic, his wife, Sadeta
Susic, Esad Muhic and Fadil Softic - all from Bosnia but now proud Americans -
proclaim their allegiance to the Democrats, believing they help people more than
Republicans. The Susics became citizens on Friday and registered to vote right
away.

Thanh Nguyen, 67, is voting for the GOP. "He likes the Republicans," Tai Tran
translated, "because their policies against Communism have been very strong."

But for Fadil Softic, voting comes down to just one thing: "I am proud," he said
in English and with a smile that nearly beamed, "to be a citizen of the United
States."

LOAD-DATE: November 2, 2000

LANGUAGE: English

GRAPHIC: MAP, GRAPHIC (1) Map by the POST-DISPATCH - Where immigrants live in
the city of St. Louis
 This map shows distribution of immigrants who were granted legal permanent
residency from Oct. 1, 1989 to Sept. 30, 1998
 One dot = 50 immigrants
 Source: Immigration and Naturalization Service, analysis by Jim Getz
 (2) Graphic chart - Where St. Louis immigrants came from
 Those who were granted legal permanent residency from Oct. 1, 1989 to Sept. 30,
1998

 Vietnam: 2,398
 Bosnia-Herzegovina: 1,100
 Soviet Union: 349
 Ethiopia: 283
 People's Republic of China: 241
 Unknown: 226
 Albania: 218
 Russia: 188
 Iraq: 184
 Somalia: 157
 Mexico: 154
 All Others*: 2,208
 * From more than 100 nations
 Source: Immigration and Naturalization Service, analysis by Jim Getz

                  Copyright 2000 St. Louis Post-Dispatch, Inc.


                              148 of 275 DOCUMENTS

                       St. Louis Post-Dispatch (Missouri)

               September 24, 2000, Sunday, FIVE STAR LIFT EDITION

OUTREACH EFFORT REGISTERS 40 IMMIGRANTS TO VOTE IN THIS FALL'S ELECTIONS;
LOCAL AID OFFICIAL SAYS VOTING BLOC IS LIKELY TO EXPAND IN NEXT DECADE

BYLINE: Jim Getz; Of The Post-Dispatch55; 70; 44; POLITICS

SECTION: METRO, Pg. B1

LENGTH: 717 words


Sada Abdi grasped a voter punch for the first time Saturday and stabbed a hole
in a ballot: Betsy Ross for first lady.

Abdi, a Somalian-American who has never voted in a real election, was one of 40
immigrant-citizens who practiced on a sample ballot and registered to vote at an
outreach event at the International Institute of Metro St. Louis, 3654 South
Grand Boulevard.

Forty new voters might not seem like that many. But they are a tiny symbol of a
potential voting population that could explode over the next decade into several
thousand, transforming politics in St. Louis.

"There are potentially thousands of voters out there," said Anna Crosslin,
president of the Institute. "How many thousands, I don't know. The (2000) census
may help us determine that. But how many elections are determined by a dozen
votes?"

An analysis by the Post-Dispatch of data from the U.S. Immigration and
Naturalization Service shows that more than 7,700 immigrants were granted legal
permanent residence in St. Louis from Oct. 1, 1989, to Sept. 30, 1998.

It can take as long as two years from the application to the granting of legal
permanent residence. And that status is the doorway to citizenship -- and the
right to vote. After gaining permanent status, an immigrant must live in the
United States for an additional five years before applying for citizenship. Then
that process can take an additional year or two.

Crosslin -- whose institute alone sponsored and resettled more than 6,400
refugees in the St. Louis area from 1995-99 -- said the immigrant population
here increased dramatically in the second half of the decade.

That increase could mean a lot of votes, she said, and local politicians already
are taking heed.

In the Bevo Mill neighborhood, she said, mailbox after mailbox sports a Bosnian
name, and aldermen are showing up to community meetings in such neighborhoods.

"They're realizing this is their constituency," Crosslin said.

Indeed, one of the interpreters on hand Saturday, Tai Tran, a fixture among
Vietnamese immigrants in St. Louis since 1985 and owner of the Mekong Restaurant
on South Grand Boulevard, knows Rep. Richard Gephardt, D-south St. Louis County.

"I've met him several times and admire him very much," Tran said. "He is one of
the true leaders."

But the importance of the immigrant population goes beyond name-dropping, Tran
emphasized.

"We know in the city the immigrant population is going up," he said. "W e need
the voice of the immigrants to keep the multicultural activities in the city."

Crosslin said that voice often is muted because new immigrants who become
citizens often do not register to vote. They either are not sure how private
their vote will be or are embarrassed to ask how to punch a vote card correctly.

Asking for help might not dawn on people who come from a culture where voting is
not an option, she said. "And, No. 2, if they sign up, they're not sure what
they're obligating themselves to," she added.

Hence the outreach effort to register voters.

The potential is huge, Crosslin believes.

"I can tell you that our estimates of new Americans who reside in city
neighborhoods are in excess of 35,000 people," she said. "And I'm not ta lking
about the whole Hispanic population in the Cherokee area that could double that
number."

From among the new voters at the International Institute Saturday, Al Gore can
count on the support of four come Nov. 7: Vahid Susic, his wife Sadeta Susic,
Esad Muhic and Fadil Softic . They are all from Bosnia and now are proud
Americans. They proclaimed their allegiance to the Democrats, saying they help
people more than Republicans.

Dung Nguyen, 47, who became a U.S. citizen three years ago after arrivin g from
Vietnam six years earlier, also will vote for the Democrats.

"I will vote Democratic because I see the economy doing well and people are
afraid of change," he said.

But his fellow Vietnamese-American, Thanh Nguyen, 67, is voting for the GOP.

"He likes the Republicans," Tai Tran translated, "because their policies against
communism have been very strong."

But for Fadil Softic, voting comes down to just one thing: "I am proud," he said
in English and with a smile that nearly beamed, "to be a citizen of the United
States."

LOAD-DATE: November 2, 2000

LANGUAGE: English

GRAPHIC: MAP, GRAPHIC (1) Map by the POST-DISPATCH - Where immigrants live in
the city of St. Louis
 This map shows distribution of immigrants who were granted legal permanent
residency from Oct. 1, 1989 to Sept. 30, 1998
 One dot = 50 immigrants
 Source: Immigration and Naturalization Service, analysis by Jim Getz
 (2) Graphic chart - Where St. Louis immigrants came from
 Those who were granted legal permanent residency from Oct. 1, 1989 to Sept. 30,
1998

 Vietnam: 2,398
 Bosnia-Herzegovina: 1,100
 Soviet Union: 349
 Ethiopia: 283
 People's Republic of China: 241
 Unknown: 226
 Albania: 218
 Russia: 188
 Iraq: 184
 Somalia: 157
 Mexico: 154
 All Others*: 2,208
 * From more than 100 nations
 Source: Immigration and Naturalization Service, analysis by Jim Getz

                  Copyright 2000 St. Louis Post-Dispatch, Inc.


                              149 of 275 DOCUMENTS

                       St. Louis Post-Dispatch (Missouri)

                September 26, 2000, Tuesday, THREE STAR EDITION

10,000 LIBERIANS COULD BE FORCED TO LEAVE U.S. FOR HOMELAND;
SPECIAL IMMIGRATION STATUS EXPIRES ON FRIDAY

BYLINE: The Associated Press

SECTION: NEWS, Pg. A2

LENGTH: 386 words

DATELINE: NEW YORKDESCENDANTS; SLAVERY; IMMIGRATION POLICY; RESIDENT; STATUS;
FEAR


Barring last-minute intervention by the White House or Congress, about 10,000
Liberians living in the United States may have to return to their shattered
homeland when their special immigration status expires on Friday.

The prospect frightens many of the Liberians, who fled their country's unrest
and have since grown accustomed to life in the United States.

"I don't want to go," said Edwina Manley, 18, a high school senior and mother of
a newborn son. "I want to give my child all the chances that w ere given to me."

Manley barely remembers Liberia. Her grandparents brought her to the United
States in 1987, two years before the West African nation descended into a
seven-year civil war in which an estimated 200,000 people were killed.

When they arrived, Manley and her grandparents were given visitor's visas but
soon received temporary protective status, which allowed them to live and work
in the United States until the political situation in Liberia stabilized.

Sporadic fighting over the years secured the special status for more than a
decade, until last year. The State Department then said it believed Liberia was
stable enough for residents to return and terminated the special immigration
status.

Shortly after that decision, however, fighting erupted again and Liberians in
the United States were given a one-year reprieve. It expires Friday.

"We are well aware the deadline is due to expire, and we are actively evaluating
the situation," said P.J. Crowley, spokesman for the National Security Council.

While Liberia is largely at peace, much of the country is still without
electricity or passable roads and supplies remain short. Border attacks have
also increased and there have been reports of growing instability and fighting
in Lofa County, a remote and bandit-ridden part of northern Liberia.

Last week, the U.N. refugee agency scaled back its operations along the
Guinea-Liberia border after its senior diplomat there was killed.

Liberians in the United States would be expected to leave by Friday unless they
have applications for asylum or refugee status pending, the Immigration and
Naturalization Service said. The agency admitted it lacks the manpower to
enforce the deadline, but an illegal stay in the United States could hurt their
chances of re-entry.

LOAD-DATE: November 2, 2000

LANGUAGE: English

                  Copyright 2000 St. Louis Post-Dispatch, Inc.


                              150 of 275 DOCUMENTS

                       St. Louis Post-Dispatch (Missouri)

                October 2, 2000, Monday, FIVE STAR LIFT EDITION

SENATE CONSIDERS HIGH-TECH IMMIGRANTS

BYLINE: The Associated Press

SECTION: BUSINESS PLUS, Pg. 13

LENGTH: 236 words

DATELINE: WASHINGTONNATIONAL IMMIGRATION POLICY; LEGISLATION PROPOSAL


Senators probably will make a final decision this week on increasing the number
of immigrant high-tech workers for technology companies, Senate Majority Leader
Trent Lott said.

Senate Democrats on Wednesday lost their final attempt to attach other
immigration legislation to the bill that would have mainly affected Hispanics.

After that victory, and procedural votes on Wednesday and Thursday, Lott,
R-Miss., announced that a final vote on the bill would likely come as early as
Tuesday.

The bill to provide more six-year visas is sought by software and other
high-tech companies.

Under present law, the government issued 115,000 of the "H1B" visas this year
for skilled workers from abroad. Under the legislation, that ceiling was to fall
to 107,500 beginning Sunday, and to 65,000 in the fiscal year after that. The
legislation would grant about 200,000 high-tech visas for each of the next three
years.

Technology companies contend that 300,000 jobs are going unfilled for lack of
qualified workers; labor unions argue the companies want more immigrants to put
downward pressure on the wages of Americans holding the same jobs.

Democrats have pledged to sustain a presidential veto of one of the must-pass
spending bills if it does not include grants of amnesty to more illegal
immigrants and offer permanent residency to more political refugees from Central
America and the Caribbean.

LOAD-DATE: November 2, 2000

LANGUAGE: English

NOTES: TECHNOLOGY & YOU

                  Copyright 2000 St. Louis Post-Dispatch, Inc.


                              151 of 275 DOCUMENTS

                       St. Louis Post-Dispatch (Missouri)

                October 13, 2000, Friday, FIVE STAR LIFT EDITION

GRAND SOUTH GRAND COMES TO LIFE THROUGH THE WORK OF IMMIGRANTS

BYLINE: Ben LookerURBAN NEIGHBORHOOD; BUSINESS; DISTRICT; IMMIGRANTS; RETAIL
TRADE SCHOOLS

SECTION: EDITORIAL, Pg. D15

LENGTH: 758 words



URBAN DEVELOPMENT

TWO decades ago, the commercial and residential areas surrounding South Grand
Boulevard were in trouble. In the early 1900s, rapid development brought
bakeries, music schools, tailors, dentists, drug stores and saloons to the
street, but by the late 1960s most of these businesses had closed.

But foreign immigration in the late '80s and early '90s helped the area acquire
a critical mass of both foreign- and U.S.-born consumers and residents. South
Grand's numerous pedestrians now find an eclectic mix of shops and restaurants,
many catering to niche interests or bearing the stamp of immigrant ownership.
Today, many St. Louisans speak enthusiastically about the area's commercial
liveliness, drawing contrasts between the South Grand of today and the moribund
street of the past.

Many immigrant groups have supported the vibrance of older urban areas and,
through their presence and investment, initiated or furthered revitalization
projects. St. Louis continues to bleed U.S.-born residents, but some of this
loss is offset by an inflow of immigrants. The area around South Grand, in
particular, has been boosted by a concentration of newcomers from many nations.

The area's unique flavor results, in part, from the many institutions that have
been developed by and in response to the immigrant presence. These institutions
range from the International Institute to churches, restaurants, clinics and
organizations that are, in varying degrees of formality, places for immigrant
interaction and association.

The process of assimilation that takes place in these immigrant communities
affects the entire social environment of the boulevard. One social process
transpiring around South Grand is the assimilation of older institutions to
redefined spaces. For example, Messiah Lutheran School, near Tower Grove Park,
has recently sought to diversify its student population to reflect the polyglot
district surrounding it. Over three years, Messiah's non-white enrollment has
jumped from 20 percent to 65 percent. Messiah's rapid transformation serves as
illustration for how change in the area affects existing institutions.
Flexibility and adaptation are a must for survival and participation, and local
residents have begun to recognize that immigrants are key to the area's
stability.

South Grand's physical environment has also proved conducive to the area's
revival. Local merchant and residential associations have embraced the
redevelopment principle of "keeping the old with the new," echoing a main
precondition for urban diversity outlined by urban commentator Jane Jacobs in
1960: "Cities need old buildings so badly it is probably impossible for vigorous
streets and districts to grow without them. . . . If a city area has only new
buildings, the enterprises that can exist there are automatically limited to
those that can support the high costs of new construction."

Because of South Grand's plethora of aging but usable buildings, businesses
geared towards ethnic minorities and non-mainstream clientele can open and
survive. If the street was filled with new construction (as is the case with all
too many "redevelopment zones"), only highly capitalized chains, many of which
refuse to invest in older urban areas, could succeed. For example, the high rent
of newer buildings in Clayton shuts out unusual or non-mainstream businesses,
leaving a narrow range of activities and shoppers.

However, trends that have seen virtually all non-specialty retail shops migrate
to suburban shopping centers also afflict South Grand. In 1993, South Grand's
Sears department store shut its doors, and the old Woolworth's building still
sits empty. As in most urban districts, one would be hard pressed to purchase
towels, a rake or running shoes on South Grand. The dearth of non- specialty
retail shows that South Grand is not immune to the business migrations that have
drained most cities, but the street's renewed vibrance along non-retail lines
serves as model for the economic functions urban areas can still perform.

The processes that have helped revitalize South Grand raise important questions
about the nature of vital urban space. How do distinct social and ethnic groups
construct communities within diverse and sometimes hostile environments? How do
multiple communities interact in a single urban space? By examining the
contributing players and institutions of the district's renaissance, St.
Louisans may find a more workable model for successful urban environments.

LOAD-DATE: November 2, 2000

LANGUAGE: English

NOTES: Ben Looker recently graduated from Washington University, with majors in
urban studies and music. He is now in a master's program in Contemporary Urban
Studies at Goldsmiths College, University of London.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO (1) PHOTO by KEVIN MANNING / POST-DISPATCH - At Siete Mares
restaurant on 3204 South Grand, Camilia and Sonia Trogler roll napkins and
silverware. They are the daughters of the owner, Sonia Trogler, who with her
husband immigrated from Nicaragua.
 (2) PHOTO by ROBERT COHEN / POST-DISPATCH - Charlene Tran, a student at Messiah
Lutheran School, 2900 South Grand, raising the flag last November.
 (3) PHOTO by JAMIE RECTOR / POST-DISPATCH - Thuy Truong (far right) carrying a
parade flag celebrating Vietnamese culture during the Parade of Nations in the
Grand South Grand business district last June.

TYPE: Commentary Column

                  Copyright 2000 St. Louis Post-Dispatch, Inc.


                              152 of 275 DOCUMENTS

                       St. Louis Post-Dispatch (Missouri)

                October 29, 2000, Sunday, FIVE STAR LIFT EDITION

OFFICER ENJOYS THE TASK OF SERVING AS A LIAISON TO IMMIGRANTS;
"BOSNIAN BARRY" BREAKS DOWN BARRIERS, BUILDS TRUST

BYLINE: Phillip O'Connor; Of The Post-DispatchCITY OF ST. LOUIS; POLICE OFFICER;
LIAISON; IMMIGRANTS; BOSNIAN

SECTION: METRO, Pg. E1

LENGTH: 1016 words


As police searched in recent days for a half-dozen men wanted for last week's
brutal attack at a Bevo neighborhood bar frequented by Bosnians, Officer Barry
LaLumandier's pager droned almost constantly.

"Bosnian Barry," as many know him, serves officially as the St. Louis
Metropolitan Police Department's liaison to new Americans. But the title hardly
defines the job.

As the point man in a program designed to help police open a line of
communication to recent immigrants, LaLumandier finds himself, at times, serving
as a diplomat, psychologist, social worker, furniture mover, chauffeur and, on
occasion, police officer.

During the past week, he's been working the phones as a go-between, providing
Bosnians with as much information as he can about the police investigation while
relaying tips from the community regarding the suspects.

He calls the assignment his best in 29 years with the department and said he's
received an education in world politics and cultural awareness to rival that
available in any classroom.

"What's really neat is I'm afforded the opportunity to sit down with these
people and try to really understand our differences," he said. "I absolutely
learn something every day."

LaLumandier is stationed in a spartan office at the International Institute of
Metro St. Louis, which is collaborating with the police and the St. Louis
Association of Community Organizations to teach crime prevention and safety to
refugees.

LaLumandier comes in frequent contact with people from Ethiopia, Vietnam, Laos,
Somalia, Eritrea, Sierra Leone, Afghanistan and elsewhere who are making south
St. Louis the city's newest melting pot.

Most refugees arrive in St. Louis frightened, suspicious of strangers and
reluctant to reach out for help. Some were driven out of their homelands at
gunpoint and with nothing but the clothes on their backs. Many spent time in
squalid refugee camps before coming to the United States.

Many suffer varying degrees of post-traumatic stress disorder, LaLumandier said.

LaLumandier works to break down those barriers and earn the immigrants' trust.
He's learned to say hello and thank you in most of the languages and admits to
acquiring a taste for both Vietnamese and Bosnian food during his two years on
the job.

But his job isn't always easy. Even the clothes he wears can make it hard to
establish a relationship.

While his pressed sky-blue shirt, creased navy pants, shiny black boots, badge
and sidearm might be reassuring to most Americans, many refugees associate a
uniform with fear - and even terror.

Anna Crosslin, head of the International Institute, says, "You have to remember
a lot of these people are coming from places where people in uniform are part of
the problem, not part of the solution."

Jasminka Grubor, a Bosnian outreach worker at the institute who works with
LaLumandier, agreed that he often faces an uphill battle in establishing
positive relationships.

"After the war, a lot of people don't trust too much and don't know how to deal
with the law and what the consequences are," Grubor said. "I think it's getting
better. But I think for trust, it takes a long time."

Customs can clash

Some of LaLumandier's days are mundane, spent on the telephone relaying
information to supervisors, helping new arrivals understand the complex American
legal system or responding to complaints. Just as some immigrants find it
difficult to adjust to America, some Americans find it difficult to adjust to
immigrants.

"They'll see their new neighbors doing something they don't understand and want
to complain," LaLumandier said. "We get call after call after call about shoes
on the front porches of Muslims."

The popular Bosnian custom of cooking a goat over an outdoor fire also prompted
numerous complaints.

"Once they find out it's a religious or cultural thing, they stop calling," he
said.

On other days, LaLumandier might meet new arrivals at the airport, transport
crime victims to court hearings or help a family unload a truck of donated
furniture. He'll often team with a social worker or an interpreter and visit
homes, speak to community groups or distribute fliers containing safety tips or
good-neighbor information in a variety of languages.

His worst days typically involve domestic abuse or child endangerment calls.
Some immigrants have trouble understanding that leaving their children alone in
an apartment all day or striking their wife or child is not allowed in this
country.

"Sometimes I'll have to tell them I'm not trying to change their religion, I'm
trying to teach them American law," LaLumandier said.

Though at times his work is frustrating, LaLumandier finds it rewarding. On his
best days, he can save a life.

Vesna Sopovic, 44, met LaLumandier after her then-teenage son began spending all
his money on drugs.

"Everybody told me that I just needed to kick him out from the house and let him
go on his way, and I didn't like that way," said Sopovic, a Bosnian refugee. "I
tried everything."

Then a friend put her in contact with LaLumandier, who visited the woman and her
son in their home to explain the dangers and consequences of his behavior.

"It was amazing when Mr. Barry came the first time to my house," Sopovic said.
"My son was so scared. That was the best thing that happened."

Her son has since moved out, but Sopovic said LaLumandier and a social worker
continue to visit about once a week and keep tabs on him.

Sopovic said LaLumandier is "doing his job, but most important thing is that you
can feel that his heart is involved.

"It is most important that he is a very good person, not just a policeman. He
tries to understand what we're dealing with. It's really har d to start a new
life. Mr. Barry is my friend. He saved my life."

========

Sunday profile

Name: Barry LaLumandier

Age: 50

Family: The St. Louis native is married and has three daughters.

Career: St. Louis police officer for 29 years, including stints as a patrolman
and as a school-beat and public affairs officer.

LOAD-DATE: November 2, 2000

LANGUAGE: English

GRAPHIC: PHOTO (1) Color photo headshot - Barry LaLumandier
 (2) Photo by WENDI FITZGERALD/POST-DISPATCH - Officer Barry LaLumandier, the
police department's liaison to new Americans, listens last week to Nadsida Husic
at her home in south St. Louis. Husic has been in the United States for five
years.

                  Copyright 2000 St. Louis Post-Dispatch, Inc.


                              153 of 275 DOCUMENTS

                       St. Louis Post-Dispatch (Missouri)

               November 12, 2000, Sunday, FIVE STAR LIFT EDITION

IMMIGRANTS GET CHANCE TO LEARN MORE ABOUT SCHOOLS HERE

BYLINE: Michelle Meyer; Of The Post-DispatchEDUCATION FAIR; FOREIGN STUDENTS

SECTION: METRO, Pg. F4

LENGTH: 452 words


Mohamad Suleiman is confused by an educational system that is foreign to him.

Suleiman moved from Afghanistan in September with his wife, Jomna, and their
10-year-old daughter and 9-year-old twin sons. He wants to attend college and
learn about future educational opportunities for his children. "It is difficult
for me because of the language barrier but also because I am not familiar with
the application process here," Suleiman said with the help of a translator. "The
education system here is very different from Afghanistan."

In an effort to learn more, Suleiman attended the Educational Opportunity Fair
that the International Institute of St. Louis sponsored Saturday. The fair, held
at the institute at 3654 South Grand Boulevard, was organized to inform
immigrants about local schools, financial aid resources and accreditation.

Hundreds of people attended, representing at least 15 nations. Translators were
available. The fair included 33 schools offering a variety of programs from
kindergarten through college.

"Over the years, we've realized there's a real gap between the foreign-born
families and the schools," said Anita Barker, program coordinator of the
Education Department. "Many families want to explore educational opportunities
in the community beyond the public schools, but they are faced with huge burdens
such as language barriers, transportation difficulties and trouble getting
access to the information they need."

When immigrants arrive here, the institute concentrates on teaching bas ic
survival skills, such as learning to speak English and how to find a job, said
Anna Crosslin, head of the International Institute. "But after that initial
assistance, many families flounder as they try to integrate into the community,
because they don't understand how things work here."

Bosnian Nevzeta Hasanovic, 21, who moved to St. Louis with her family in
October, said, "I've really been waiting for a day like this. It's difficult for
me to make the time to go to all the schools on my own. And I don't feel really
comfortable (being) the only Bosnian among Americans. This was very helpful to
me."

The fair also offered an opportunity for participating schools. "It's a chance
for us to get a broader picture of what nationalities are in the area and how we
can serve these communities better," said Doug Thaman, principal of St. Louis
Charter School.

"If we work together, there are ways we can open doors," said Katherine Betz,
head of Rossman School in west St. Louis County. "It's an ongoing challenge as
we try to serve a broad population. The foreign families don't always know there
are lots of options out there, but I hope we can change that."

LOAD-DATE: November 12, 2000

LANGUAGE: English

                  Copyright 2000 St. Louis Post-Dispatch, Inc.


                              154 of 275 DOCUMENTS

                       St. Louis Post-Dispatch (Missouri)

               November 14, 2000, Tuesday, FIVE STAR LIFT EDITION

TIGHT PRESIDENTIAL ELECTION PUZZLES SOME IMMIGRANTS IN ST. LOUIS;
DESPITE CONFUSION, THEY BELIEVE DEMOCRATIC SYSTEM WILL MAKE THINGS WORK

BYLINE: Theresa Tighe; And Phillip O'ConnorLOCAL REACTION; POLITICAL PROCESS;
PRESIDENTIAL; ELECTION CAMPAIGN 2000; ELECTION 2000; POLITICS; VOTE; RECOUNT
CLOSE RACE; LAWSUIT; COURT RULING

SECTION: NEWS, Pg. A7

LENGTH: 642 words


Confused or bewildered by the ongoing tussle for votes between George W. Bush
and Al Gore?

Consider the plight of recent refugees and immigrants who are observing or
participating in their first American presidential election.

The Post-Dispatch gathered the impressions of a half-dozen people Friday at the
International Institute of Metropolitan St. Louis, a refugee resettlement
agency. Two were from Iraq. The others were from Bosnia, Peru, Somalia and
Vietnam.

For some, reports of voting irregularities brought back bad memories of
manipulated elections in their homelands. Others are certain that the country
will weather this problem just as it has countless others in its history.

Alan Noory stayed up until 5 a.m. Wednesday watching election returns even
though he hadn't cast a ballot. Noory, 34, an Iraqi Kurd, has lived in St. Louis
nearly three years and isn't yet eligible to vote.

"I feel unfortunate not to be able to vote," he said. "I came from a country
where voting is just a dream."

Still, he admits he was shocked to learn that the winner of the popular vote
doesn't automatically become president. He opposes the Electoral College method
of election and believes the Constitution should be changed.

"My idea of a nation is one vote for everybody," Noory said.

Noory said that officials should take as much time as necessary to ensure that
the correct man wins.

"I know firsthand what a tragedy it is not to trust the person elected
president," Noory said.

Dzevada Ball of Fenton said that the election reminds her of Bosnia before its
civil war.

"It makes me a little nervous," said the 25-year-old, who came to the United
States six years ago and cast her first presidential vote Tuesday.

In Bosnia, election fraud is common, especially vote counting, she said.

She's suspicious that the majority of the voting problems in this election are
in Florida, where the governor, Jeb Bush, is the brother of GOP candidate George
W. Bush. She is also bothered that Bush is the son of a former president. She
said that in her homeland, family was at the bottom of everything. If a man was
the chief of police, his brother would be the captain and his son the
lieutenant, she said.

"There is something fishy going on in Florida," Ball said.

Originally from Peru, Cesar Figari voted in an American election for the second
time Tuesday. "Voting is a statement of your conscience," Figari, of Ballwin,
said.

Hap Dinh, 65, is another first-time voter. The former Vietnamese refugee is
taking the uproar in stride, certain that the institutions of his new country -
the Constitution, Congress and the American public backed by more than 200 years
of democracy - will make things work.

"I am very proud to participate in (the) activities of a country and people I
respect," said Dinh, of Affton.

Kadar Hussien, 43, is a refugee from Somalia. He cast his first vote Tuesday and
waited with the rest of America for a winner to be declared. He thinks that
unfulfilled expectations have fueled unrest. He believes the election situation
will get better only if "some people are allowed to vote again."

Saad Hussein was thrilled and confused in casting his first vote.

"I'm thinking, 'Did I do the right thing or the wrong thing?'" said Hussein, who
twice asked poll judges for help in marking his "butterfly-style" ballot.

The ballot is similar to those used in Palm Beach County, Fla., where officials
rejected 19,120 ballots on election night because more than one presidential
candidate was selected.

"It was very confusing," Hussein said. "Even Americans seemed confused."

Despite any reservations about the American system, Hussein, who came from Iraq
eight years ago, said that he would never go back.

"Back there (it) is terrible," he said. "Even our birds dream to leave."

LOAD-DATE: November 14, 2000

LANGUAGE: English

NOTES: ELECTION 2000

                  Copyright 2000 St. Louis Post-Dispatch, Inc.


                              155 of 275 DOCUMENTS

                       St. Louis Post-Dispatch (Missouri)

              November 23, 2000, Thursday, FIVE STAR LIFT EDITION

IMMIGRANTS TAKE TO A HOLIDAY OF HOPE;
AMERICA USED TO BE CALLED THE NEW WORLD; FOR THESE PEOPLE, IT STILL IS

BYLINE: Diana Aitchison; Of The Post-DispatchALIENS; HOLIDAYS

SECTION: NEWS, Pg. A1

LENGTH: 338 words


For thousands of refugees and immigrants in St. Louis, this Thanksgiving holiday
means more than turkey, pumpkin pie and making way for a rounder waistline.

To these new arrivals, many from Third World nations or war-ravaged countries,
Thanksgiving is about hope and new beginnings.

They are thankful for simple things like basic human rights and freedoms that
many Americans may take for granted.

Today, St. Louisans will count their blessings and ignore their calories. And
many of those snapping the wishbone will have desires much different from the
nation's newest residents. They are thankful for the opportunity to educate
their children, to own a car, to live in a safe neighborhood free from bombs and
snipers.

For many immigrants, the International Institute of Metropolitan St. Louis is
ground zero. Last year, more than 7,000 people from around the globe -- Bosnia,
the Caribbean, Africa, Russia, Asia -- were helped by the institute to become
more self-sufficient.

At the institute, the tired and poor get job and medical information, assistance
with language and briefed in the ways of American life, including that most
American of holidays, Thanksgiving. There may be no other celebration whose
theme is more relevant to the poignant feelings expressed by these immigrants.

Anita Barker, a 10-year veteran of the institute and head of its education
department, says Thanksgiving has become her favorite holiday thanks to working
with immigrants.

"Since being here I've never seen Thanksgiving in quite the same light," she
said. "When I meet these people, I am reminded of terrible conditions in
troubled countries. They taught me that Thanksgiving is a time to reflect on who
you are, where you've been and who you want to be."

Each year, language students at the institute are asked to write an essay to
express a sentiment of thanks. These "reflection papers" give a glimpse into the
lives of new Americans. The essays are also a reminder of basic rights often
taken for granted here.

LOAD-DATE: November 25, 2000

LANGUAGE: English

NOTES: A THANKSGIVING WISH

GRAPHIC: PHOTO COLOR PHOTO by LAURIE SKRIVAN / POST-DISPATCH - Ramiza Sejfic
(left) and Sulejmana Hodzic, who both came to the United States from Bosnia,
gave thumbs up to their first Thanksgiving feast, served Tuesday at the
International Institute, 3654 South Grand Boulevard in St. Louis. The institute
is this area's largest resettlement agency for immigrants.

                  Copyright 2000 St. Louis Post-Dispatch, Inc.


                              156 of 275 DOCUMENTS

                       St. Louis Post-Dispatch (Missouri)

              November 23, 2000, Thursday, FIVE STAR LIFT EDITION

NEW ST. LOUISANS EXPRESS GRATITUDE, DREAMS

SECTION: NEWS, Pg. A14

LENGTH: 863 words


* The International Institute of Metropolitan St. Louis asked immigrants
learning English to write a "sentiment of thanks." Here are summaries and
excerpts from some of their responses.

BOSNIA

Alija Kopic-Osmanovic, 39, was a transportation civil engineer in Bosnia for
seven years before the war. He and wife Edina, now 32, fled their small town of
Teslic with their daughter during the fighting. The family lived in Germany then
moved to North Carolina. There, they felt alone in an unfamiliar world with a
"new language, new culture, new habits, everything was strange for us," he
wrote.

They knew only one other Bosnian.

Last year, when he discovered he had 30 relatives in St. Louis, a city with an
entire Bosnian enclave, he was elated. "I'm like again born!" he wrote. Alija
quit his job as a carpenter and arrived in St. Louis three weeks ago. The family
now includes another daughter, 16 months old.

"I hope this is last time that I must change country and look for new
beginning," he wrote. He is now seeking a job in his career field. This
Thanksgiving, he is thankful for Dawn Crisholt, a woman in North Carolina who
pulled his family through a perplexing and lonely year. His Th anksgiving wish:
"For all people whose name is refugee to find a safe place in this world."

VIETNAM

Nguyet Do Thu and her husband immigrated to the United States to join their
children, who had left Vietnam by boat in 1987. This Thanksgiving, they want to
thank the people of St. Louis for providing a "lovely and tranquil city" where
they were able to obtain "a nice house and a comfortable car." They desire good
jobs and "hope our children become successful soon." Do Thu adds: "We're proud
to be Americans. The United States is our second country. We love this country
very much! God bless America."

ALBANIA

While some refugees can't say enough about their new-found happiness, others
appreciate the basics. Gergi Bullari, 23, arrived in St. Louis in June. He works
two jobs and is thankful for the opportunity "to believe in the place where I
work."

RUSSIA

In Oksana Nelson's native land, food is scarce and bread lines are commonplace.
She arrived in St. Louis eight months ago. She is thankful for St. Louis and its
"700 Italian restaurants . . . Ted Drewes . . . and the Budweiser brewery."
Mostly, she appreciates the teachers who spend many hours helping her learn
English.

CONGO

Safari M. Hussein, 42, lives with his mother, wife and brother in St.  Louis.
While many are thankful for possessions, Hussein's needs are simple and his
words few. This Thanksgiving, he thanks God for a "job and freedom."

BOSNIA

Mediha Ramadanovic, 27, fled from war-torn Bosnia first to Germany. Last month,
she and her parents arrived in St. Louis. She is thankful for the chance to have
"a better future" with the hope of going to college.

VIETNAM

Trinh Nguyen was a teacher in Vietnam before she took a 28-hour journey to St.
Louis. Here she joined other family members. "In America," she writes, "I like
freedom; everything is good for me."

LAOS

Khampho Van Phayboun, 44, is a student in the advanced English class. She is
grateful to have escaped "danger" in Laos and is thankful to have arrived
"safely to the United States." Mostly, she is appreciative that her children are
doing well in school. "I am thankful for America," she writes. "God bless
America."

TUNISIA

Raouf Gassoumi, 22, arrived in July with his family. He is "thankful to God" for
good health, new friends and -- above all, "for freedom."

AFGHANISTAN

Hoora Dost, 36, is a student who hopes to one day own a car, then get a job. She
is thankful for the opportunity to learn English and to live in St. Louis.

BOSNIA

Though Amela Haudric, 19, misses her small town of Fenica and the Bosnian
friends she left behind, she has adapted to life in St. Louis, especially the
local Bosnian culture of restaurants, businesses and grocery stores. "Now," she
writes, "I am thankful for everything."

JORDAN

Nuha Abu Shameh, 30, attended college and taught school in Jordan before coming
to the United States with her family. She is proud of her progress in English
class. "I thank my God" each day for the blessings she has found in St. Louis.
"I am very happy now," she writes.

CONGO

Lucie Kagarama, 19, left her home in Africa eight months ago. Compared to the
struggles in her homeland, she says, "St. Louis is nice and calm, and people are
simple and kind." She plans to study hard, attend college and "have a great
job." Ultimately, she writes, "I hope that my children will have a better life."

Irina Radko, 18, arrived in March with her family. In Ukraine, her family had a
difficult time finding work. They came to the United States to find jobs and the
opportunity to educate their children. "I think in this country I can dream
about my future because I can have one," she writes. "I want believe that my
dreams will be real. My plan for future is to go to community college. My dream
is to be a translator. I know I need better English for this and I know it is
only dream now. But maybe in future."

LOAD-DATE: November 23, 2000

LANGUAGE: English

GRAPHIC: PHOTO (1) PHOTO by LAURIE SKRIVAN/POST-DISPATCH - Edina Kopic-Osmanovic
and her husband, Alija, were tired at their home in St. Louis after a long night
with a sick child. The couple fled from fighting in Bosnia in the early 1990s,
then spent eight years in Germany and some time in North Carolina. They have
been in St. Louis only a few weeks but hope to make the city their home. "My
husband and I have been through a lot," Edina Kopic-Osmanovic said. "I am happy
here. . . . I hope they (their two children) can have a better life than the one
we both had."
 (2) PHOTO by LAURIE SKRIVAN/POST-DISPATCH - Oswald Gahimo, a native of Congo,
arrived in St. Louis in August with his four children. "God alone knows how He
talked through the American government to take me out of the Congolese prison
and to bring me here in St. Louis with my family. . . . God bless America,"
Gahimo said.

                  Copyright 2000 St. Louis Post-Dispatch, Inc.


                              157 of 275 DOCUMENTS

                       St. Louis Post-Dispatch (Missouri)

                December 1, 2000, Friday, FIVE STAR LIFT EDITION

MAJOR PROPOSALS MADE BY PRESIDENT-ELECT FOX

BYLINE: Associated PressNEW PRESIDENT; MEXICO; POLITICS; GOVERNMENT;
RELATIONSHIP UNITED STATES; INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS; FOREIGN; AFFAIRS

SECTION: NEWS, Pg. A3

LENGTH: 279 words


* ECONOMY: Reduce poverty by 30 percent, create more than 1 million jobs a year,
open oil and electricity sectors to some private investment, revamp tax system,
establish microlending program to provide credit for the poor, work toward
eventual common market with United States and Canada that could include free
movement of workers.

* OIL: Continue close relationship with OPEC while opposing sharp increases in
crude oil prices.

* JUSTICE: Overhaul police forces top to bottom, splitting attorney gene ral's
office between police and prosecutors, create force similar to the FBI,
establish secretariat for law enforcement.

* CORRUPTION: Create posts of federal comptroller and special adviser on
judicial reform, establish congressional "Transparency Commission" to dig into
past scandals.

* DRUGS: Remove army from anti-drug duties, pressure U.S. to contribute more to
fight, encourage United States to end policy of "certifying" foreign anti-drug
efforts.

* FOREIGN POLICY: Forge more trade-oriented ties around world, oppose U.S.
embargo on Cuba.

* EDUCATION: Create broad scholarship program to help poor children go to
college.

* REBELS: Implement peace accords with rebels and withdraw army from parts of
Chiapas state, restart negotiations with Zapatista rebels.

* INDIANS: Create new office on Indian affairs, establish incentives for
export-oriented businesses in heavily Indian areas.

* IMMIGRANTS: Pressure United States to issue more temporary work visas to
Mexicans, eventually open border; end mistreatment of Central American
immigrants crossing Mexico; pressure United States to treat Mexicans better
regardless of legal status.

LOAD-DATE: December 1, 2000

LANGUAGE: English

                  Copyright 2000 St. Louis Post-Dispatch, Inc.


                              158 of 275 DOCUMENTS

                       St. Louis Post-Dispatch (Missouri)

                January 8, 2001, Monday, FIVE STAR LIFT EDITION

DEMOCRATS TURN UP HEAT OVER CHAVEZ, ASHCROFT NOMINATIONS;
THEY QUESTION CHAVEZ'S AID TO ILLEGAL IMMIGRANT WHO DID CHORES AT HER HOUSE

BYLINE: The Associated Press

SECTION: NEWS, Pg. A1

LENGTH: 923 words

DATELINE: AUSTIN, TEXASNOMINEE; LABOR SECRETARY; CONTROVERSY; DEMOCRAT;
QUESTIONS


Foreshadowing difficult confirmations, Democrats stepped up attacks Sunday on
two of President-elect George W. Bush's most conservative Cabinet nominees --
John Ashcroft as attorney general and Linda Chavez as labor secretary.

The heat was turned up as Bush's transition team acknowledged that Chavez had
provided housing and financial aid to an illegal immigrant from Guatemala.

The disclosure of the arrangement with the Guatemalan woman in the early 1990s
sent the Bush camp scurrying to defend Chavez. It disclosed that Chavez also had
provided support to two Vietnamese refugees and for the children of a Puerto
Rican woman living in New York.

Even as Democrats pledged to explore Chavez's relationship with the woman, a
Democratic senator said that while he once was inclined to support the
nomination of Ashcroft, he may wind up opposing it.

The senator, Joe Biden of Delaware, is the ranking Democrat on the Judiciary
Committee, which will review Ashcroft's nomination. Biden said he was rethinking
his position because of new information that had come to light in the past two
weeks.

Democrats criticized Ashcroft for his views on abortion and his record on civil
rights issues.

Sen. John Kerry, D-Mass., called the selection of Ashcroft "a divisive, not
unifying nomination."

Kerry, appearing on NBC's "Meet the Press," said he was concerned about
Ashcroft's opposition, while a senator, to an openly gay ambassador and to the
appointment of David Satcher, an African-American, as surgeon general.

Biden, also appearing on "Meet the Press," acknowledged that he said just before
Christmas that he was inclined to vote for Ashcroft "unless there's something I
don't know."

He said Sunday he has since learned some things about Ashcroft he did not know
and "I may oppose his nomination."

As for Chavez, transition team spokesman Tucker Eskew confirmed the central
elements of an ABC report that the Guatemalan woman, Marta Mercado, was in the
United States illegally, had lived in the Chavez home in the early 1990s and had
performed odd jobs around the house.

Eskew said Chavez had taken in the illegal immigrant as an act of charity, not
as an employee or as a "nanny" for her son, who was then about 13 years old.

Chavez defended her actions in a phone interview Sunday night with The
Washington Post. "If someone came to me needing shelter and needing a helping
hand even under the same circumstances, I would try to help them," she said.

Chavez refused to go into detail about the time Mercado spent in her home, but,
she said, "I would not turn away from my door a woman who had no place to live
and who had been badly mistreated and needed help."

Eskew said Bush "has absolute confidence not only in Ms. Chavez but as to her
ultimate confirmation."

"This is not a 'nanny problem,'" Eskew insisted.

That was a reference to the case of Zoe Baird, President Bill Clinton's nominee
for attorney general, in 1993. Baird withdrew after reports that she had hired
an illegal immigrant as a nanny and did not pay the employer's share of Social
Security taxes.

Senate Democratic leader Tom Daschle said the accusation against Chavez, if
true, raised questions about Chavez's qualifications to lead the Labor
Department.

"I think it would present very serious problems," Daschle, D-S.D., said on CBS'
"Face the Nation."

Democratic attacks on Ashcroft and Chavez previewed likely bruising confirmation
hearings.

Bush advisers viewed the growing opposition to Chavez as the more serious of the
two. With the Senate divided 50-50 between Republicans and Democrats, Chavez
does not enjoy the general level of good will that Ashcroft does as a former
senator. He lost re-election last fall.

Chavez, 53, is a former official in President Ronald Reagan's administration
whose nomination has drawn sharp opposition from labor unions.

Eskew, the transition spokesman, said Chavez provided shelter and financial
assistance to the Guatemalan woman for about a year.

"Ms. Chavez did not employ this woman as a housekeeper or anything else," he
said. "On an irregular basis, she was given spending money. On an irregular
basis, she did chores around the house."

He said the money was mainly for "living expenses and to help her feed herself"
and not compensation for the chores.

He said Chavez suspected at the time that the woman was in the country illegally
but did not focus on it because she did not consider her an employee.

"She didn't know for a fact" that the woman was undocumented, Eskew added. Twice
before, Chavez provided shelter and financial support to those in need, Eskew
said. In the late 1970s, she took two Vietnamese brothers into her home and
helped support them "for a number of weeks."

AFL-CIO President John Sweeney previously called Chavez's nomination "an insult
to American working men and women."

On Sunday, the labor union said in a statement that, "Unfortunately, her
explanation sounds too much like the explanation of employers who have tried to
skirt the law by saying that individuals are not their employees."

Also Sunday:

* Sen. Edward M. Kennedy, D-Mass., the temporary chairman of the Senate Health,
Education, Labor and Pensions Committee, called the claim against Chavez "a very
troubling new allegation which needs to be fully addressed at the time of the
hearings."

* The Rev. Jesse Jackson called the arrangement "indentured servitude," telling
ABC "This Week" that, as labor secretary, "This woman must now enforce the law."

LOAD-DATE: January 8, 2001

LANGUAGE: English

GRAPHIC: PHOTO Color Photo - (Linda) Chavez, Labor secretary nominee

                  Copyright 2001 St. Louis Post-Dispatch, Inc.


                              159 of 275 DOCUMENTS

                       St. Louis Post-Dispatch (Missouri)

                  January 8, 2001, Monday, THREE STAR EDITION

DEMOCRATS TURN UP HEAT OVER CHAVEZ, ASHCROFT NOMINATIONS;
THEY QUESTION CHAVEZ'S AID TO ILLEGAL IMMIGRANT WHO DID CHORES AT HER HOUSE

BYLINE: The Associated Press

SECTION: NEWS, Pg. A1

LENGTH: 936 words

DATELINE: AUSTIN, TEXASNOMINEE; LABOR SECRETARY; CONTROVERSY; DEMOCRAT;
QUESTIONS


Foreshadowing difficult confirmations, Democrats stepped up attacks Sunday on
two of President-elect George W. Bush's most conservative Cabinet nominees --
John Ashcroft as attorney general and Linda Chavez as labor secretary.

The heat was turned up as Bush's transition team acknowledged that Chavez had
provided housing and financial aid to an illegal immigrant from Guatemala.

The disclosure of the arrangement with the Guatemalan woman in the early 1990s
sent the Bush camp scurrying to defend Chavez. It disclosed that Chavez also had
provided support to two Vietnamese refugees and for the children of a Puerto
Rican woman living in New York.

Even as Democrats pledged to explore Chavez's relationship with the woman, a
Democratic senator said that while he once was inclined to support the
nomination of Ashcroft, he may wind up opposing it.

The senator, Joe Biden of Delaware, is the ranking Democrat on the Judiciary
Committee, which will review Ashcroft's nomination. Biden said he was rethinking
his position because of new information that had come to light in the past two
weeks.

Democrats criticized Ashcroft for his views on abortion and his record on civil
rights issues.

Sen. John Kerry, D-Mass., called the selection of Ashcroft "a divisive, not
unifying nomination."

Kerry, appearing on NBC's "Meet the Press," said he was concerned about
Ashcroft's opposition, while a senator, to an openly gay ambassador and to the
appointment of David Satcher, an African-American, as surgeon general.

Biden, also appearing on "Meet the Press," acknowledged that he said just before
Christmas that he was inclined to vote for Ashcroft "unless there's something I
don't know."

He said Sunday he has since learned some things about Ashcroft he did not know
and "I may oppose his nomination."

As for Chavez, a Bush transition spokesman confirmed the central elements of an
ABC report that the Guatemalan woman was in the United States illegally, had
lived in the Chavez home in the early 1990s and had performed odd jobs around
the house.

But the spokesman, Tucker Eskew, denied that Chavez considered the woman an
employee. Eskew portrayed the relationship as "an act of charity and
compassion."

"This is not a 'nanny problem,'" Eskew insisted.

That was a reference to the case of Zoe Baird, President Bill Clinton's nominee
for attorney general, in 1993. Baird withdrew after reports that she had hired
an illegal immigrant as a nanny and did not pay the employer's share of Social
Security taxes.

Senate Democratic leader Tom Daschle said the accusation against Chavez, if
true, raised questions about Chavez's qualifications to lead the Labor
Department.

"I think it would present very serious problems," Daschle, D-S.D., said on CBS'
"Face the Nation."

Democratic attacks on Ashcroft and Chavez previewed likely bruising confirmation
hearings.

Bush advisers viewed the growing opposition to Chavez as the more serious of the
two. With the Senate divided 50-50 between Republicans and Democrats, Chavez
does not enjoy the general level of good will that Ashcroft does as a former
senator. He lost re-election last fall.

Chavez, 53, is a former official in President Ronald Reagan's admini stration
whose nomination has drawn sharp opposition from labor unions.

Eskew, the transition spokesman, said Chavez provided shelter and financial
assistance to the Guatemalan woman for about a year.

"Ms. Chavez did not employ this woman as a housekeeper or anything else," he
said. "On an irregular basis, she was given spending money. On an irregular
basis, she did chores around the house."

He said the money was mainly for "living expenses and to help her feed herself"
and not compensation for the chores.

He said Chavez suspected at the time that the woman was in the country illegally
but did not focus on it because she did not consider her an employee.

"She didn't know for a fact" that the woman was undocumented, Eskew added. He
said Chavez only realized this for sure a few years later when the woman, who
had returned to Guatemala, called to request assistance for coming back to the
United States legally to work.

"Ms. Chavez at the time looked into it and reported back that it would take
years to do that," Eskew said.

Twice before, Chavez provided shelter and financial support to those in need,
Eskew said. In the late 1970s, she took two Vietnamese brothers into her home
and helped support them "for a number of weeks."

Again, in the early 1990s, she took in two grade-school-age children of a Puerto
Rican woman and helped pay for their private-school education, Eskew said.

"She has a big heart," Eskew said.

AFL-CIO President John Sweeney previously called Chavez's nomination "an insult
to American working men and women."

On Sunday, the labor union said in a statement that, "Unfortunately, her
explanation sounds too much like the explanation of employers who have tried to
skirt the law by saying that individuals are not their employees."

Also Sunday:

* Sen. Edward M. Kennedy, D-Mass., the temporary chairman of the Senate Health,
Education, Labor and Pensions Committee, called the claim against Chavez "a very
troubling new allegation."

* Sen. Barbara Boxer, D-Calif., appearing on CNN's "Late Edition," said of the
arrangement between Chavez and the illegal immigrant: "It doesn't sound good to
me - somebody who lived with you, did some chores around your house? She really
didn't get paid, she just got some living money? It doesn't sound good for a
labor secretary. I'll tell you that right now."

LOAD-DATE: January 8, 2001

LANGUAGE: English

GRAPHIC: PHOTO Color Photo headshot - (Linda) Chavez, Labor secretary nominee

                  Copyright 2001 St. Louis Post-Dispatch, Inc.


                              160 of 275 DOCUMENTS

                       St. Louis Post-Dispatch (Missouri)

                 January 11, 2001, Thursday, FIVE STAR EDITION

WORLD

BYLINE: From News ServicesRUSSIA; KIDNAPPING; HUMANITARIAN WORKER; US; CITIZEN;
GANG VIOLENCE; IVORY COAST; AFRICA; MEXICO; PLAN; UNITED STATES; MEXICO; GUEST
WORKER; COLOMBIA SOUTH; AMERICA; RELEASE HOSTAGES; GENERAL; CHILEAN DICTATOR;
ILL HEALTH

SECTION: NEWS, Pg. A7

LENGTH: 570 words



EUROPE

RUSSIA

Humanitarian worker is kidnapped in Chechnya

An American working to restore medical care in war-shattered Chechnya was
kidnapped by masked gunmen who pulled him from his car and forced him into
another vehicle, officials said Wednesday.

Kenny Gluck, 38, was traveling Tuesday in a four-car convoy of aid workers near
the town of Stariye Atagi, south of the regional capital Grozny, when
unidentified men opened fire on them, according to the aid group Doctors Without
Borders.

Other foreign and local employees traveling in the group escaped unharm ed.
Hundreds of people have been kidnapped by armed bands for ransom, especially
after the expulsion of Russian troops in a 1994-96 war.

AFRICA

IVORY COAST

Gangs of youths target immigrant neighborhoods

Some immigrants fled their homes in Abidjan on Wednesday after roaming bands of
youths began threatening and beating foreigners, whom they accused of backing a
failed coup in the West African nation.

Dozens of university students swept through run-down apartment buildings Tuesday
in the Riviera suburb of Abidjan, the country's main city. Witnesses said they
were looking for immigrants after government ministers said evidence suggested
that the plotters of a coup attempt late Sunday had foreign support.

Paramilitary police dispersed the students, but a smaller group returned
Wednesday and harassed street vendors, witnesses said. Many immigrants piled
their belongings into vehicles and left.

NORTH AMERICA

MEXICO

U.S. senators promise "guest-worker program"

A group of U.S. senators promised a new era in U.S.-Mexico relations Wednesday,
pledging to forge a guest-worker program to bring Mexican workers legally into
the United States.

The five senators also praised Vicente Fox, saying his new presidency wi ll end
decades of stagnation in the countries' relations.

The delegation of four Republicans and one Democrat, led by Sen. Phil Gramm,
R-Texas, said they also would work to eliminate a U.S. drug certification law
that has created years of tension between the two countries. Under the program,
the State Department annually evaluates the drug-fighting performance of other
countries.

SOUTH AMERICA

COLOMBIA

Soldiers free hostages held by guerrilla group

Colombian soldiers swooped down near a blocked-off highway and freed 56 hostages
held by Colombia's second-largest guerrilla group, authorities said Wednesday.

Less than seven minutes after the choppers landed, the insurgents from the
National Liberation Army, or ELN, fled into the mountains, said the operation's
commander, Col. Edgar Ceballos.

One guerrilla was killed and all the hostages - men, women and children- were
freed unhurt at the roadblock outside Barbosa, 150 miles northwest of Bogota,
Ceballos said.

CHILE

Pinochet enters hospital to undergo tests

Gen. Augusto Pinochet entered a military hospital in Santiago early Wednesday to
undergo neurological and mental tests that may be his final hope to avoid trial
on human rights charges.

The tests are to determine if the aging former strongman is fit to stand trial.

Judge Juan Guzman is seeking to indict him on homicide and kidnapping charges
related to the "Caravan of Death," a military commando raid that executed 55
political prisoners shortly after the 1973 coup that brought Pinochet to power.

LOAD-DATE: January 11, 2001

LANGUAGE: English

NOTES: NATION & WORLD

GRAPHIC: PHOTO Photo headshot - (Kenny) Gluck
 Was pulled from his car

TYPE: World Briefs Column

                  Copyright 2001 St. Louis Post-Dispatch, Inc.


                              161 of 275 DOCUMENTS

                       St. Louis Post-Dispatch (Missouri)

                 January 23, 2001, Tuesday, THREE STAR EDITION

WORLD

BYLINE: From News ServicesGERMANY; GOVERNMENT; ESTABLISHMENT; VICTIMS; FUND
VIOLENCE; ARREST; SUSPECT; DEATH; ILLEGAL; IMMIGRANTS NETHERLANDS; ILLEGAL
ALIENS; UNITED NATIONS REPORT; FOREST US; GREAT BRITAIN; AIR RAIDS; IRAQ;
AIRCRAFT MILITARY AIRPLANES; FREE RIDES; SUBWAY; MEXICO

SECTION: NEWS, Pg. A4

LENGTH: 621 words



EUROPE

BERLIN

Government sets up fund for victims of rightists

Germany opened a $ 4.76 million government fund Monday to aid victims of growing
far-right violence, which has targeted foreigners and other minorities.

Justice Minister Herta Daeubler-Gmelin called the fund "a human and political
sign of solidarity with the victims." People who have been injured, threatened
or defamed by rightist extremists can submit claims.

German politicians and civic leaders have grappled for months with ways to break
the worst surge in far-right offenses since a wave of attacks shortly after
German unification in 1990.

NETHERLANDS

Chief suspect in deaths of 58 aliens is arrested

Dutch law enforcement authorities have arrested the chief suspect in the deaths
of 58 illegal Chinese immigrants last year, Dutch media reported Monday.

Dutch television quoted investigators in the Netherlands' human smuggling task
force as saying a 36-year-old Rotterdam man was arrested Sunday night in the
town of Heesch, 55 miles south of Amsterdam.

According to the TV report, the man was being held on suspicion of manslaughter,
human smuggling and leadership of a criminal organization held responsible for
the deaths of the Chinese immigrants. Their bodies were discovered in June in
the back of a refrigerated truck in the British port of Dover after a ferry
crossing over the North Sea from Rotterdam. Six other suspects are scheduled to
go on trial at a Rotterdam court on March 5.

ITALY

Rate of loss of forests is down, U.N. report says

The world's forests are still vanishing, but at a slower rate than five years
ago, U.N. experts reported Monday.

They said the world has been losing more than 22 million acres of forest a year
since 1995, 20 percent less than in the previous five-year period.

Forests are disappearing most rapidly in Africa and Latin America, the
Rome-based Food and Agriculture Organization report said. In Asia, new
plantations are helping make up for loss of natural forests, it said. The planet
now has 64,585 square feet of forest per person, the report said. It said the
amount is shrinking by 129 square feet every year.

MIDDLE EAST

IRAQ

U.S., British jets target civilian sites, media say

Iraq claimed Monday that U.S. and British warplanes had bombed civilian
buildings in the northern and southern parts of the country.

No casualties were reported in the airstrikes, the second since the inauguration
Saturday of President George W. Bush.

The government controlled Iraqi News Agency said civil and service installations
were bombed in both the northern and southern no-fly zones but did not specify
exactly where. On Saturday, Iraq said six people were killed and three injured
in airstrikes by U.S. and British warplanes over southern Iraq.

NORTH AMERICA

MEXICO

Union subway workers let passengers ride free

Tens of thousands of Mexico City residents got a free ride to work on Monday
when the subway workers' union staged a partial strike.

Workers in many stations allowed passengers through the turnstiles without the
usual 15-cent tickets. City officials said the workers' move was an attempt to
strong-arm the administration into giving the union control over a key job, that
of the subway's income chief.

"We have to put ourselves in control of those areas because it is where the
money that comes from the ticket booths is handled," Mayor Andres Manuel Lopez
Obrador was quoted as telling the government news agency Notimex. "That cannot
be managed by the union." He denied union claims that the city was failing to
provide the subway workers with adequate quantities of uniforms and boots.

LOAD-DATE: January 23, 2001

LANGUAGE: English

NOTES: NATION & WORLD

TYPE: World Briefs Column

                  Copyright 2001 St. Louis Post-Dispatch, Inc.


                              162 of 275 DOCUMENTS

                       St. Louis Post-Dispatch (Missouri)

               February 16, 2001, Friday, FIVE STAR LIFT EDITION

METROWATCH

SECTION: METRO, Pg. B2

LENGTH: 426 words



ST. LOUIS

Volunteers will help immigrants with taxes

Representatives of Volunteer Agency for Tax Assistance will be on hand Saturday
to assist recent immigrants and refugees in reading and filling out their income
tax forms.

Representatives will be available from 9 a.m. to 3 p.m. at the International
Institute, 3654 Grand Avenue. They will be available to answer questions and to
help prepare returns for first-time filers who are clients of the Institute.

Many of those expected to seek help are from Bosnia, Somalia and Middle Eastern
countries. For more information, call 314-773-9090.

ST. LOUIS AREA

I-70 will be closed at Goodfellow

The Missouri Department of Transportation will close Interstate 70 at Goodfellow
Boulevard this weekend to tear down half of the bridge over the highway.

Road crews will close the east half of the bridge after this morning's rush
hour. Traffic will then be diverted to the west half of the bridge.

Starting at 8 p.m. today, the road crews will close the highway and detour
traffic in both directions on the entrance and exit ramps. The highway is
expected to reopen by 6 a.m. Monday.

The Goodfellow bridge project is part of the $ 150 million restoration of I-70
and is expected to be complete by late 2002.

SPRINGFIELD, Ill.

Audit is critical of pension fund spending

An audit has uncovered improper travel spending by the state teachers pension
fund.

Auditor General William Holland said Wednesday that employees of the Teachers'
Retirement System traveled overseas without getting the required approval
beforehand.

Workers traveled to Ireland, England and Scotland to check on the pension fund's
investments. The travel cost $ 8,426.

Auditors also checked 25 travel vouchers and found that 12 spent too much on
hotel rooms.

SPRINGFIELD, Ill.

State records another increase in AIDS cases

More vigilance in tracking AIDS may account for the increase in reported cases
in Illinois for the second year in a row, state public health officials said
Thursday.

The number of new cases reported in 2000 jumped 14 percent to 1,781, the
Department of Public Health said. But only 36 percent of the cases reported last
year were diagnosed in 2000.

Similarly, 41 percent of the 1,557 cases reported in 1999 were diagnosed that
year.

Health officials believe the increase is due in part because of an effort in
1999 to inform local health departments about new reporting procedures that
identify individual cases through confidential numbering.

LOAD-DATE: February 16, 2001

LANGUAGE: English

GRAPHIC: PHOTO Photo by ANDREW CUTRARO/POST-DISPATCH - Man dies in apartment
fire in St. Louis - After being rescued Thursday from a fire in her apartment
building, Sherry Johnson reacts to news that her neighbor, Tom Hooper, had been
pulled from the burning building in the 2900 block of Lemp Avenue in St. Louis.
Hooper later was pronounced dead, fire officials said.

TYPE: MetroWatch Column

                  Copyright 2001 St. Louis Post-Dispatch, Inc.


                              163 of 275 DOCUMENTS

                       St. Louis Post-Dispatch (Missouri)

                   March 5, 2001, Monday, THREE STAR EDITION

VOLUNTEERS ARE SOUGHT TO TEACH ENGLISH TO REFUGEES, IMMIGRANTS

SECTION: METRO, Pg. C20

LENGTH: 137 words


Volunteer teachers are needed to help women in St. Louis who are refugees and
immigrants waiting to learn English.

The Immigrant & Refugee Women's Program, a nonprofit organization, is seeking
volunteers to work with women from low-income families who have legally lived in
the United States from one month to several years.

The goal is to help the women improve their English and teach them practical
skills.

Almost 200 women have participated in the home-education program since it was
started in 1995 by Sister Elise Silvestri. The program is now working with 50
women from Bosnia, Vietnam, Somalia, Kurdistan, Ethiopia, Eritrea, Mexico,
Albania and Congo.

Women interested in becoming volunteers should call Sister Silvestri at
314-631-4124 or write her at 624 West Ripa Avenue, St. Louis, Mo. 63125.

LOAD-DATE: March 5, 2001

LANGUAGE: English

                  Copyright 2001 St. Louis Post-Dispatch, Inc.


                              164 of 275 DOCUMENTS

                       St. Louis Post-Dispatch (Missouri)

                 March 5, 2001, Monday, FIVE STAR LIFT EDITION

THIS WEEK IN ST. LOUIS BUSINESS

BYLINE: Compiled By Jo KrummrichLBIZ; MEETINGS; ATTENDANCE FIGURES

SECTION: BUSINESS PLUS, Pg. 2

LENGTH: 478 words



Conventions

(Estimated attendance in parentheses.)

Cortext Mind Matters Educational Seminar - Today and Tuesday, St. Louis Airport
Marriott. (200)

Immigration & Naturalization Services Annual Meeting - Today-Friday, Regal
Riverfront. (100)

National Rural Electric Cooperative Association Tech-Advantage Conference -
Tuesday through Saturday, no designated headquarters. (600)

Conference Resources International ABB Power T&D Co. Meeting - Tuesday through
Saturday, Adam's Mark Hotel. (200)

ITC Travel and Tours Chugach Electric Association Meeting - Tuesday through
March 14, Radisson Hotel & Suites Downtown. (20)

National Pest Management Association Midwest Regional Meeting - Wednesday
through Friday, Regal Riverfront Hotel. (350)

National Rural Electric Cooperative Association Pre-Training Conference -
Thursday through Saturday, no designated headquarters. (300)

American Christian Writers Annual Christian Writers Conference - Thursday
through Saturday, Holiday Inn Airport West. (60)

R.J. O'Brien & Associates Introducing Broker Conference - Friday and Saturday,
Regal Riverfront. (175)

Knights of Columbus-4th Degree Annual Meeting - Friday through Sunday, Radisson
Hotel & Suites Downtown. (800)

Madame Alexander Doll Club Meeting - Friday and Saturday, Sheraton Clayton Plaza
Hotel. (150)  R.J. O'Brien & Associates Midwest Brokers - Friday and Saturday,
Regal Riverfront Hotel. (150)

Sigma Phi Gamma-Delta Beta Annual Meeting - Friday through Sunday, Radisson
Hotel & Suites Downtown. (60)

North Carolina Electric Cooperative Annual Meeting - Friday through Wednesday,
Hyatt Regency St. Louis. (450)

National Rural Electric Cooperative Association National Annual Meeting - Sunday
through Wednesday, Adam's Mark Hotel. (13,000)

Meetings

Society for Marketing Professional Services - 11:30 a.m. Thursday, Holiday Inn,
Collinsville. Jim Pennekamp, executive director of Southwestern Illinois
Leadership Council, speaks on "Project Opportunities in Southwestern Illinois."
Information: Kathy Hunt at 314-241-8120.

Conferences

Self-Publishing Workshop - Thursday, Borders Books & Music, 11745 Olive
Boulevard. Workshop sponsored by the St. Louis Publishers Association.
Information: 314-275-7728.

EEO Update - Thursday, AAIM Learning Center, 3700 South Lindbergh Boulevard.
Seminar sponsored by AAIM Management Association. Information: 314-968-5360.

The Innovations in Warehousing Management in Supply Chain Integration - Friday,
Busch Memorial Center, St. Louis University. Conference sponsored by the St.
Louis University Consortium for Supply Chain Management Studies. Call
314-977-7155.

Trends in Communication - Saturday, The Viking Holiday Inn, Watson and
Lindbergh. Workshop sponsored by the National Federation of Press
Women-Missouri. Information: Karen Zarky at 314-353-1666.

LOAD-DATE: March 5, 2001

LANGUAGE: English

NOTES: BUSINESS TRAVEL

TYPE: This Week in St. Louis Business Column

                  Copyright 2001 St. Louis Post-Dispatch, Inc.


                              165 of 275 DOCUMENTS

                       St. Louis Post-Dispatch (Missouri)

                 March 9, 2001, Friday, FIVE STAR LIFT EDITION

POPULATIONS OF HISPANICS, BLACKS ARE VIRTUALLY EVEN, CENSUS SAYS;
INCREASE IN HISPANICS CAME MUCH FASTER THAN CENSUS OFFICIALS EXPECTED

BYLINE: Karen Branch-Brioso; Post-Dispatch Washington Bureau

SECTION: NEWS, Pg. A2

LENGTH: 487 words

DATELINE: WASHINGTONDEMOGRAPHICS; RACE; ETHNICITY; CULTURE; DIVERSITY
IMMIGRATION; SPANISH; ESPANOL; LATINO; LATINA; CHICANO CHICANA; LANGUAGE


The 2000 census counted 35.3 million Hispanics in the United States, placing
their numbers on a statistically even par with African-Americans at a far faster
pace than demographers had predicted, early results from the national count
show.

The census counted 34.7 million to 36.4 million blacks, which means that
Hispanics may have overtaken African-Americans as the nation's largest minority
group. Demographers expected that to occur by 2005, and the 2000 Hispanic count
took them by surprise, surpassing the bureau's earlier estimates by more than
2.5 million.

Officials said the "greater uncertainty" of immigration data - particularly that
of undocumented immigration - is the probable reason for the difference between
the estimates and the actual count of Hispanics.

"They update the population every year by taking the 1990 (census) base, and
they add and subtract births, deaths and immigration, and the weakest link in
the formula is immigration," said Roberto Ramirez, a survey statistician for the
Ethnic and Hispanic Statistics Branch of the Census Bureau. "A higher proportion
of immigrants are Hispanic."

The black and Hispanic census counts were released in tables March 1 that
contained partial race and ethnic data from the once-a-decade count. More
complete numbers detailing both race and ethnicity will be released Monday.

That data will provide a clearer portrait of the nation's diversity, including,
for the first time, counts of people who are of more than one race.

That change explains the range of population counts for African-Americans. The
lower figure - 34.7 million - reflects those who described themselves as black
only. The higher number - 36.4 million - includes those who checked off both
black and at least one other race category on their census forms.

The black only count for 2000 showed an increase of 4.7 million, or 16 percent,
over the past decade. However, if multiracial African-Americans are included,
the black population grew by 6.4 million, or 22 percent.

For Hispanics, the count showed an increase of 58 percent - 12.9 million - over
1990.

The Hispanic category further complicates the national portrait. Hispanic is not
a race, but an ethnicity to describe those of Spanish-language descent. So
Monday's numbers will also show Hispanics who are black, white, Asian or another
racial group, or of multiple racial categories.

With the numbers of blacks and Hispanics this close, just which group is larger
may be a matter of opinion, according to Jorge del Pinal, assistant chief for
the Census Bureau's Population Division.

How, for example, would black Hispanics be counted?

"You'll have to account for the overlap," said del Pinal, who prefers to leave
the question for others to answer. "It depends on how many blacks who are mixed
with other races you would say are really black or not. People vary in their
opinion on that."

LOAD-DATE: March 9, 2001

LANGUAGE: English

GRAPHIC: PHOTO PHOTO by THE ASSOCIATED PRESS - Mahmoud Salem, an Egyptian, and
his wife, Magnolia Salem, a Colombian, operate the Latino Market in Springfield,
Mo. The store caters to a growing Hispanic population in southwestern Missouri.

                  Copyright 2001 St. Louis Post-Dispatch, Inc.


                              166 of 275 DOCUMENTS

                       St. Louis Post-Dispatch (Missouri)

               March 28, 2001, Wednesday, FIVE STAR LIFT EDITION

GREEN CARD RULES

BYLINE: Associated PressIMMIGRATION LAWS; SHORTAGE; SKILLED; WORKERS DEMAND;
RULES; REGULATIONS; INS; WORK VISAS; PERMITS; EMPLOYMENT; COMMITTEE; FOR
ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT; REPORT; NEED; IMMIGRANT; LABOR; CED

SECTION: BUSINESS, Pg. C1

LENGTH: 161 words


* An employer may sponsor an employee, but only if the U.S. Labor Department has
certified the job is real and there is a shortage of American citizens available
to fill it.

* For skilled workers, the wait for a green card may be six months to three
years, during which time the immigrant cannot work, according to Bill
Strassberger, an Immigration and Naturalization Service spokesman. For unskilled
workers, the wait can be even longer.

* The Legal Immigration Equity Act allows an illegal immigrant with a sponsor to
apply for a green card without leaving the country.

* A U.S. citizen can sponsor a spouse, parents, siblings or children, but legal
permanent residents may sponsor only spouses and unmarried children. No one may
sponsor an uncle or a grandfather.

* The wait to receive a green card can be long -- up to 20 years for a sibling
from a country with a lot of people immigrating to the United States, such as
Mexico or the Philippines.

LOAD-DATE: March 28, 2001

LANGUAGE: English

                  Copyright 2001 St. Louis Post-Dispatch, Inc.


                              167 of 275 DOCUMENTS

                       St. Louis Post-Dispatch (Missouri)

                 April 1, 2001, Sunday, FIVE STAR LIFT EDITION

JOB CUTS IDLE MANY IMMIGRANTS WORKING IN HIGH-TECH INDUSTRY;
SOME ARE HEADING HOME AFTER BEING BROUGHT HERE TO FUEL THE NEW ECONOMY

BYLINE: The Associated Press

SECTION: NEWS, Pg. A3

LENGTH: 692 words

DATELINE: SAN FRANCISCOALIENS; IMMIGRANTS; FOREIGNERS; INS; GOVERNMENT BUSINESS;
STATUS; EMPLOYMENT


Ajay Jindal arrived last spring from India and tapped the Silicon Valley gold
rush as a computer programmer at $ 80,000 a year - 10 times what he earned back
home.

Swept up in the giddy rise of the high-tech economy, the 24-year-old persuaded
his friends to leave steady jobs in India for the lure of American riches.

How times have changed. Jindal hasn't worked as a Java programmer since January,
and some of his friends arrived to find no work at all. Last week, he twice
rented a car to take his roommates to the airport for the one-way trip home.

"They came in December, and my company says, 'We can't hold you guys, goodbye,'"
Jindal said. "I am all alone now."

And he wonders if he won't be far behind.

Growing numbers of immigrant workers brought to the United States to propel the
high-tech economy ever higher are sitting idle - and even heading home - because
of the recent job-cutting frenzy.

Particularly hard hit are job shops that hire out temporary computer programmers
and engineers for projects at larger firms.

Many of these shops rely on workers who came to the United States on H-1B work
visas. Recipients can stay six years, and more than 400,000 now live in this
country after emigrating from places such as India, China and Eastern Europe.

American companies say they import these workers because they can't find enough
skilled American workers to fill high-tech jobs.

No one is sure what percentage of H-1B workers end up at job shops. What's clear
is that there isn't enough work to keep them all busy.

The trouble began in December and accelerated last month, as major players, such
as Cisco and Intel, announced cuts of up to 5,000 employees each. Spokesmen for
both companies said those cutbacks are likely to include H-1B workers.

Such job cuts have crippled the hundreds of job shops that have sprung up since
the mid-'90s. Some job shops consist of little more than a list of workers who
sit "on the bench" waiting for a call. Others employ dozens of programmers and
engineers full time.

Employers say there is still demand for the most highly skilled programmers and
engineers. But those with less specialized skills suffer.

To keep afloat, many job shops keep workers "on the bench" for longer periods at
low pay. They also cut their rates - for example, from $ 60 to $ 30 per hour for
a programmer who develops Microsoft Windows-compatible applications.

"Everybody's trying to squeeze more for less," said B. Lindsay Lowell, a
Georgetown University demographer. "The soft underbelly of the industry are
these job shops."

But the job shops survive because they offer a flexible labor pool at marketable
rates. Lowell's research shows that temporary workers earn about half the salary
of permanent workers. He also found that 15 percent o f H-1B workers do
temporary work - three times the rate of nonimmigrant tech workers.

With some shops saying revenue has fallen as much as 60 percent, demand for even
the most specialized H-1B workers has dropped by half. The Immigration and
Naturalization Service reported last week that 16,000 new H-1B workers came to
the United States last month - down from 32,000 in February 2000.

Although the INS doesn't track how many H-1Bs return home before their visas
expire, laid-off H-1B workers who stay risk getting caught in a confusing web of
INS regulations.

If an H-1B's employer fires the worker and then notifies the INS, the worker
will have about 90 days - the time it takes to process the change - before
leaving the country, according to INS spokeswoman Eyleen Schmidt. Workers can
appeal such revocations, but they have to show they stopped working under
"extraordinary circumstances," she said.

That burden of proof angers H-1B worker advocates.

"If you can't find another job within the magic time period, after that you'll
be out," said Murali Krishna Devarakonda, an H-1B software developer who speaks
for an advocacy group called the Immigrant Support Network.

"Imagine someone who's been here for five years, with their family, kids, in
society. We are at the total mercy of the employers and the economy."

LOAD-DATE: April 1, 2001

LANGUAGE: English

                  Copyright 2001 St. Louis Post-Dispatch, Inc.


                              168 of 275 DOCUMENTS

                       St. Louis Post-Dispatch (Missouri)

               April 18, 2001, Wednesday, FIVE STAR LIFT EDITION

DATABASE CREATED BY ELLIS ISLAND, MORMON CHURCH CAN HELP PEOPLE TRACK THEIR;
ANCESTORS

BYLINE: The Associated Press

SECTION: NEWS, Pg. A2

LENGTH: 275 words

DATELINE: SALT LAKE CITYFAMILY TREE; GENEALOGY; FAMILY HISTORY; RECORDS WEB
SITE; DATABASE; IMMIGRATION RECORDS


Tracking ancestors who entered the country through Ellis Island used to mean
poring through endless reels of microfilm.

Now, it can be as simple as a few clicks of a computer mouse.

On Tuesday, Ellis Island officials and the Mormon Church introduced a database
containing arrival records for the 22 million immigrants who entered the port of
New York from 1892 to 1924. The database includes 70 percent of all U.S.
arrivals recorded during that period.

The database is expected to be up and running today. When fully operational in
about a month, the database will be available both to Ellis Island visitors and
on the Internet. The Web site address is www.ellisislandrecords.org.

"This is the tool everybody's waiting for to go back to Ellis Island and find
their ancestors," said Wayne Metcalfe, who helped direct the project for the
Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints.

The searchable database includes immigrants' names, their port of origin, age,
nationality, hometown and marital status.

Visitors to the new American Family Immigration History Center at Ellis Island
can take home printouts of the information and purchase a copy of the original
immigration records and a photo of the ship that brought their ancestors to the
United States. Online visitors will be able to order the records and photos in
about a month.

Until now, Ellis Island information was only available on microfilm at the
National Archives in Washington or at the Mormon Church's Family History Library
in Salt Lake City. The church encourages members to try to identify ancestors,
so they can be baptized into the faith after death.

LOAD-DATE: April 18, 2001

LANGUAGE: English

                  Copyright 2001 St. Louis Post-Dispatch, Inc.


                              169 of 275 DOCUMENTS

                       St. Louis Post-Dispatch (Missouri)

                   May 3, 2001, Thursday, THREE STAR EDITION

U.S. REVIEWS RULES FOR HEALTH SERVICE ACCESS BY NON-ENGLISH SPEAKERS

BYLINE: The Associated Press

SECTION: NEWS, Pg. A9

LENGTH: 362 words

DATELINE: WASHINGTONFOREIGNERS; IMMIGRANTS; NATIVE LANGUAGE; MEDICAL; SERVICES;
PUBLIC HEALTH; CIVIL RIGHTS


The Department of Health and Human Services is reviewing Clinton-era guidelines
aimed at making sure that health care and other services are available to people
who have trouble speaking English.

Contending they would have to hire costly translators, doctors want the
department to put on hold guidelines for complying with long-standing civil
rights law. Advocates for immigrants say the guidelines are not onerous and are
needed so people get services they are due.

Department officials said Wednesday that they are reviewing the matter.

The guidelines, years in the making, were issued last summer after President
Bill Clinton signed an executive order directing federal agencies to ensure that
non-English speakers have equal access to federal services.

Legislation introduced this year by Rep. Bob Stump, R-Ariz., would repeal that
order.

Immigrant advocates met with White House officials Wednesday and said they were
not told what President George W. Bush might do on the issue. But Scott
McClellan, a White House spokesman, said later that there were no plans to
repeal the order.

Still, advocates are nervous about the department guidelines, which could be
softened or put on hold even if the executive order remained in place.

"If you go around the country and you ask people who work with immigrants ...
the Number 1 concern you will hear is that language is a barrier," said Josh
Bernstein of the National Immigration Law Center.

Title VI of the 1964 Civil Rights Act prohibits denial of federal s ervices
based on national origin, among other things. Courts have said that includes the
ability to speak English.

The result is an unfunded federal mandate, complains the American Medical
Association, along with 50 other groups representing doctors and dentists, and
all 50 state medical societies.

Specifically, they are concerned about patients in Medicaid, the government
health program for the poor that typically pays doctors very little.

In their letter to Health and Human Services Secretary Tommy Thompson, the
groups cited a case in which a physician spent $ 237 for an interpreter and was
paid just $ 38 for the visit.

LOAD-DATE: May 3, 2001

LANGUAGE: English

                  Copyright 2001 St. Louis Post-Dispatch, Inc.


                              170 of 275 DOCUMENTS

                       St. Louis Post-Dispatch (Missouri)

                 May 17, 2001, Thursday, FIVE STAR LIFT EDITION

MISSOURI: RACIAL, ETHNIC DIVERSITY IS BELOW U.S. AVERAGE

BYLINE: Phillip O'Connor; Of The Post-Dispatch

SECTION: NEWS, Pg. A1

LENGTH: 724 words


* The state is also older, partly because of smaller numbers of young Hispanic
immigrants.

A Missourian is more likely to be white, older and live alone than the average
U.S. resident, and is less likely to be Hispanic or Asian or to have children,
according to 2000 census figures released today.

Missouri residents also are slightly more likely to own their homes.

Many of the differences between the state and the nation can be attributed, in
part, to the wave of immigration that bypassed Missouri in the past decade.

"Missouri is not getting its proportionate share of immigrants," said Campbell
Gibson, a U.S. Census Bureau demographer. "The state is not nearly as racially
and ethnically diverse as the rest of the U.S."

Hispanics also tend to be younger and have higher birth rates than whites, which
would lead to a lower median age, Gibson said.

The median age in Missouri is 36.1 years. That means that half of the state's
5.6 million residents counted last year are older and half are younger.

Nationally, the median age is 35.3, an increase of 2.5 years since 1990.

Census figures show that 85 percent of Missourians are white, compared with 75
percent for the U.S. population nationwide.

While Hispanics fueled significant growth in many areas across the United
States, the trend is not evident in Missouri. Hispanics account for 12.5 percent
of the nation's residents, but only 2 percent of Missourians.

Even so, the number of Hispanics in Missouri nearly doubled during the decade to
more than 118,000. Of those, nearly 78,000 identified themselves as Mexican,
almost twice the number that did so in the 1990 census.

The number of Asians statewide grew by more than a third during the decade to
more than 61,000. But Asians still account for only 1 percent of the state's
population, compared with 3.6 percent nationwide.

Vietnamese grew the fastest among Asian groups in Missouri to 10,600, 1.5 times
larger than the number in 1990.

Asians from India were the second fastest growing group, doubling to more than
12,000.

Despite those gains, 13,600 Chinese still make up the state's largest Asian
group. The number of Japanese fell slightly, the only Asian group to decline
statewide.

By far, the most growth in Missouri and the United States occurred among people
age 45 to 54.

Nationally, the population of those 45 to 54 increased 49 percent. In Missouri,
the group grew by 42 percent.

The numbers are indicative of the entry into this age group of the first of the
baby boom generation - those born from 1946 to 1964.

Meanwhile, those in the 25- to 34-year-old age group lost some of their clout.
In 1990, the age group accounted for 16.7 percent of all the state's residents.
Last year, they accounted for only 13.2 percent, the largest proportional drop
among any age group. Again Gibson cited Missouri's lack of immigrants, many of
whom fall into that age range. The decline also reflects fewer births during the
1970s and 1980s.

Missouri consistently ranks among the top in states with the largest percentage
of elderly, especially among the very old, state demographer Ryan Burson said.

In the United States, one out of every 66 people is 85 or older. In Missouri,
the figure is one out of every 57.

The census also shows that many of the state's older residents are clustered
near recreational lakes and in rural northern counties.

The trends are indicative of the growing number of retirees moving into the
state and the flight of the young out of many rural areas, Burson said.

Missourians also are slightly more likely to own their homes. Nationally, 66
percent of homes are owner occupied. In Missouri, the figure is 70 percent.

And Missouri homes are more likely to be occupied by a single resident.

Nationally, the percentage of single-person households is nearly 26 percent. In
Missouri, the figure is slightly higher. The difference figure could be
indicative of the state's large percentage of elderly residents, Gibson said.

Those living alone tend to be young adults and the elderly, he said.

Females continue to slightly outnumber males in Missouri, although men are
closing the gap.

In most other measures, such as household size and percent age of married
couples, residents of the Show-Me State are not unlike most U.S. residents.

LOAD-DATE: May 17, 2001

LANGUAGE: English

NOTES: CENSUS 2000 Reporter Phillip O'Connor: E-mail: poconnor@post-dispatch.com
Phone: 314-340-8321 YEAR 2000 CENSUS DATA ANALYSIS; IMMIGRATION; SETTLEMENT;
PATTERNS URBAN DENSITY; FOREIGN INFLUENCE; AGE

                  Copyright 2001 St. Louis Post-Dispatch, Inc.


                              171 of 275 DOCUMENTS

                       St. Louis Post-Dispatch (Missouri)

                    May 22, 2001 Tuesday Three Star Edition

ASHCROFT NOTES CLOSER TIES IN VISIT TO MEXICO

BYLINE: The Associated Press

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. A4

LENGTH: 252 words

DATELINE: MEXICO CITY


John Ashcroft stressed border security and safe immigration Monday in his first
journey outside the United States as attorney general, a trip he said was
symbolic of closer relations with Mexico.

Fresh from a tour of the two countries' common border, Ashcroft said President
George W. Bush's administration will send Congress a program that would grant
Mexican immigrants guest worker visas.

He said Bush's administration is not demanding any specific measures to reduce
illegal immigration in return, although officials would like to see both
countries dedicate more resources to border areas.

"As did President Bush, I chose Mexico as my first international visit, to
underscore the importance of the bilateral relationship," Ashcroft said.

Bush visited Mexico on Feb. 16, meeting with Vicente Fox less than three months
after the Mexican president took office and pledging closer cooperation with the
United States' southern neighbor.

Ashcroft spoke after a two-hour meeting with his Mexican counterpart, Rafael
Macedo, that focused on drugs and weapons trafficking, money laundering and
joint efforts to educate prosecutors and police. Ashcroft refused to comment on
reports that the U.S. Secret Service was going to set up an office in Mexico or
that the FBI would establish a permanent training facility for Mexican police.

The two men issued a joint statement saying "since the start of the
administrations of George W. Bush and Vicente Fox, relations have been
intensified on all levels."

LOAD-DATE: May 22, 2001

LANGUAGE: English

NOTES: Note: a shorter version of this article appeared in the FIVE STAR LIFT
Edition, page A5.

                  Copyright 2001 St. Louis Post-Dispatch, Inc.


                              172 of 275 DOCUMENTS

                       St. Louis Post-Dispatch (Missouri)

                   May 28, 2001 Monday Five Star Lift Edition

VIETNAMESE HERE SEE NEED FOR CENTER THEY CAN CALL SECOND HOME ;
 GATHERING PLACE WOULD BE OASIS FROM ASSIMILATION

BYLINE: Repps Hudson Of The Post-Dispatch

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. A12

LENGTH: 887 words


Leaders of the Vietnamese community agree on one thing after the deaths April 29
of five men from carbon monoxide poisoning:

Their young people need a community center, a place where they can come and go,
meet their friends from the metro area, have parties, learn about the culture
they left behind in Vietnam and study their native language.

As immigrants who arrived here in their teens, many are most comfortable
speaking Vietnamese when they want to relax and have fun. They also don't like
always having to explain their food, their music and their traditions to
non-Vietnamese, as they might if they were out together in the city.

They want a sanctuary where they can just be themselves. A community center
would allow them to do that.

"We just go to school and work," explained Bao Nguyen as he ate a bowl of tasty
noodle soup in the small basement of St. Thomas of Aquin Catholic Church after
Mass on a recent Sunday. With 200 Vietnamese families, the church for several
years has been known as a leading gathering point for this immigrant Catholic
community.

Bao Nguyen, 24, may be typical of many young men and women who come from Vietnam
in their teens. A 1996 graduate of Soldan International Studies High School,
he's a junior at the University of Missouri at St. Louis, majoring in management
information systems. Like many, he learned English as a teen, which made
studying in schools here doubly hard.

"If kids arrive here after the fifth grade, we've found that it severely
diminishes their chances of graduating with their class and age group," said
Anna Crosslin, director of the International Institute of Metropolitan St.
Louis, 3654 South Grand Boulevard, a leading immigrant resettlement agency.

As a Catholic, Bao Nguyen, his family and others like them also faced severe
government-sanctioned discrimination in education, jobs and religious freedom in
Vietnam. Those classic reasons for uprooting themselves from their native
country also may have caused families to fracture, with the father coming to the
United States to work, then bringing his family, a person or two at a time, to
this country. Or perhaps several brothers and sisters had to be left behind.

Often the goal remains to reunite the family and re-create many features of life
back home while striving to buy a home and a car, both symbols of stability and
success in this country. Then the parents frequently will push the children to
seek a college degree and a good job to help support other members of the
family.

Moving to the United States is both a daring and a traumatic transition, from a
traditional, agricultural society to a modern, postindustrial one like the
United States.

"The living styles are different," said Bao Nguyen. "In Vietnam, my family were
farmers. We'd work in the fields and then go back home at night. Here it's very
different. Sometimes it's hard for parents to accept."

Community leaders such as the Rev. Chau Minh Pham of St. Thomas of Aquin parish
say the deaths of the five men were a wake-up call to adults to provide more
activities for young people.

And Chau.

Vuong Nguyen, a restaurateur who is president of the Vietnamese Catholic
Community, said, "We do not have much time to talk to them, to discuss with them
this or that issue." He said the congregation bought a brick duplex across the
street from the church for $1 from the city, then put $100,000 in materials and
work into fixing it up so young people would have a place for Sunday school
classes and other church activities.

Asked if the entire community, more than 5,500 strong (according to the 2000
census), will be able to build a meeting place and recreation center, Vuong
Nguyen shook his head.

"It's too expensive," he said. "We can't afford to pay the people to run it."

But two centers do exist. One is the Vietnamese Center for Community Activities,
a storefront at 4067 South Grand that provides a variety of services, all free.
They include medical exams, translations, elderly and youth activities,
Vietnamese and English classes and Vietnamese music. That center opened last
summer.

Dr. Khai Huynh, a senior fellow with Pharmacia Corp., heads the all-volunteer
center.

"We need help from the federal government, to give us a place to go," said
Huynh, whose center now is supported by several nonprofit organizations, such as
the International Institute.

"We have no one for counseling, to deal with the kids," he said. "Many people
come to me to talk about it."

Another gathering place is the newly relocated Catholic Community Services
Vietnamese Center in the St. Francis de Sales Catholic Church at Gravois and
Ohio avenues. Mary Inez Thai, the director, said the budget was less than
$200,000.

"We have been present in the community for five years, for low-income people to
get access to health care and social services," said Thai. "Those are our most
immediate needs. Then we have a great need for a community center, for the kids
after school and work."

For now, that after-school spot seems to be the AMF Western Lanes at 4041
Bingham Avenue. Four of the dead Vietnamese men bowled there in a league the
bowlers named The Asian Have-A-Ball League, said Patty Burger, manager. "We
opened Thanksgiving at 5 p.m.," said Burger. "By 5:15, we had 36 lanes of
Asians."

LOAD-DATE: May 28, 2001

LANGUAGE: English

NOTES: BETWEEN TWO CULTURES

GRAPHIC: PHOTO; Photo by ROBERT COHEN/POST-DISPATCH - After two weeks away,
Vuong Luong, 15, and his friends returned to Western Lanes on Tuesday for league
play. Luong's brother Thanh, 19, was among the five Vietnamese men who died of
carbon monoxide poisoning April 29. All five bowled at the lanes.

                  Copyright 2001 St. Louis Post-Dispatch, Inc.


                              173 of 275 DOCUMENTS

                       St. Louis Post-Dispatch (Missouri)

                  May 29, 2001 Tuesday Five Star Lift Edition

DESPERATE IMMIGRANTS MEET DEATH YEAR AFTER YEAR ON SOUTHWEST BORDER

BYLINE: Pauline Arrillaga And Giovanna Dell'orto The Associated Press

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. A4

LENGTH: 1016 words

DATELINE: WELLTON, ARIZ.


IN THE NEWS: DEATH AT THE BORDER

Nine hundred and ninety-one people have died crossing the Southwest border since
1998. Immigrant-rights activists blame the deaths on an intense enforcement
strategy that has led migrants to turn to more remote routes in deserts and
mountains. But U.S. immigration officials blame the problem on smugglers who
abandon migrants in desolate terrain with few supplies and little water.

* They brave the dangers for menial jobs that still beat anything they can find
back home.

The agent was on routine patrol, checking for footprints on a dirt road just
north of the Cabeza Prieta National Wildlife Refuge. This time, amid the harsh
desert that Border Patrol agents call "The Devil's Path," he found more than
fresh tracks.

A man rose from the brush, waving his arms to get the agent's attention. Three
others crouched in the scant shade, weak and shriveled. One was barefoot.

It was 10 a.m., and the mercury was already above 100. Water, they begged. Did
he have any water?

The migrants had trekked five days across 30 miles of unforgiving desert, over
rocks and sand, past cactus and palo verde trees. The mountains provided some
relief from the scorching sun, but the washes were dry and there were no water
tanks.

They'd made it halfway between the Mexico border and the Arizona interstate. But
others - "a bunch," they said - had been left behind. The agent radioed for
help.

Over the next day and night, searching "footprint-by-footprint," authorities
found 26 men. Fourteen of them died, and at least one person was believed still
missing.

Once more, a border that holds the promise of a better life had instead brought
death.

Most disturbing about the recent deaths of 14 illegal immigrants in the Arizona
desert is not that it happened, but that it happens so often.

Year after year, men, women and children brave heat, cold, rivers, deserts,
unscrupulous smugglers and angry ranchers to journey to the United States for
menial jobs that still beat anything they can find back home.

And year after year, they die. Since 1998, 991 people have died crossing the
2,000-mile-long Southwest border, most from heat exposure or drowning, according
to the Border Patrol. More than 5,000 others were rescued by agents.

Immigrant-rights activists blame the deaths on an enforcement strategy that has
more than doubled the number of border agents over the past six years to 8,802,
funneling most to the popular crossing points of San Diego, Douglas, Ariz., and
McAllen and El Paso, Texas. With those entryways shut off, migrants have turned
to smugglers and more remote routes in the deserts and mountains.

John Hunter, a San Diego businessman who led an effort to install emergency
water stations in the California desert last year, called the la test deaths the
"inevitable" result of U.S. immigration policy.

"We're just trying to stop the bleeding," he said.

However, immigration officials shift the blame to smugglers who take thousands
of dollars to ferry unsuspecting migrants up north and then leave them in
desolate terrain with few supplies and little water.

"The enforcement strategy is not leading these people into the desert," said
Sharon Gavin, spokeswoman for the Immigration and Naturalization Service's
western region. "By having more agents out along the border, we are rescuing
thousands of people who have been abandoned by smugglers."

Others note that migrant deaths have long been an unintended and tragic
consequence of illegal immigration. Before the shift to remote locales, imm
igrants were killed dashing across the border into traffic in San Diego or by
border bandits stalking the Texas boundary.

With the shift to more treacherous terrain, efforts have been stepped up in past
years to warn migrants of the dangers of crossing.

The U.S. Immigration Service and Mexico's State Department worked together to
produce public service announcements that run on television and radio stations
throughout Mexico. One features the wife and children of a man who died of heat
exposure. Another, titled "This is the border, this is the truth," shows graphic
images of fatal car accidents and re-enactments of people stranded in the
desert.

"We try to show that this is not some piece-of-cake walk across the border, come
to the land of gold," Gavin said. "You're in an entirely isolated, desolate area
- sometimes with no shade.

"We want them to know if you're even thinking about doing this, understand what
the dangers are."

Not everything is known yet about the ordeal this latest group faced during
their five days in the desert of southwestern Arizona. The stories relayed from
survivors to investigators, Mexican officials and a Catholic priest describe an
arduous journey, desperate attempts to survive and, for some, a gruesome death.

A few hours after that initial rescue, agents found 17 more people nine miles
south of the first group. Eight were alive, although one died en route to the
hospital. Scattered among them were nine others in different states of
decomposition.

One of the deceased was face down in a shallow ditch that authorities believe he
dug to try to escape the sun. Another had clawed through the sand with his hands
- a phenomenon known as "swimming" in search of water.

And it was another triple-digit day.

The Rev. Javier Perez, a Catholic priest, calls it a miracle that some survived.
Doctors say they all would have died if they hadn't been found when they were.
For now, the 12 survivors remain in the hospital, receiving treatment for kidney
damage and severe dehydration. Eventually, following questions by authorities,
they will be sent back to Mexico.

The tragedy has prompted renewed pledges from U.S. and Mexican authorities to
work together toward economic and political solutions to reduce illegal
immigration, to find and prosecute smugglers and to spread the word that
crossing the border can be deadly.

"One death on this border is one death too many," Johnny Williams, head of the
INS' western region, said at a joint news conference with Mexican officials.

LOAD-DATE: May 29, 2001

LANGUAGE: English

NOTES: IN THE NEWS: DEATH AT THE BORDER

GRAPHIC: PHOTO; Color Photo by THE ASSOCIATED PRESS - Mexican citizens wait for
a chance to cross into the United States from just outside Tijuana, Mexico, on
May 17. The U.S. immigration agency and Mexico have produced public service
announcements warning of the dangers of crossing the border.

TYPE: PROFILE; IMMIGRATION

                  Copyright 2001 St. Louis Post-Dispatch, Inc.


                              174 of 275 DOCUMENTS

                       St. Louis Post-Dispatch (Missouri)

                    May 30, 2001 Wednesday Five Star Edition

BALANCED BUDGETS, JOB CREATION ARE FOX'S VISION FOR MEXICO;
 HE ALSO SEEKS GREATER INTERNATIONAL INVOLVEMENT

BYLINE: The Associated Press

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. A12

LENGTH: 319 words

DATELINE: MEXICO CITY


President Vicente Fox revealed his vision for Mexico on Tuesday, declaring an
end to big government and a drive for balanced budgets and more jobs.

Fox's six-year National Development Plan also seemed to promise a more active
role abroad. Reluctance to intervene in other countries' affairs has been a
cornerstone of Mexican foreign policy, but Fox's plan replaced it with a
commitment to "promote human rights and democracy abroad."

"There will no longer be a paternalist government, but one that shares
responsibility," Fox said during a nationally televised speech.

Fox's 25-year projection sticks to his free-market ideals, with education,
balanced budgets and job creation by private companies heading a list of
priorities. But Fox noted that his administration "cannot leave everything to
the market, nor everything to the state."

Fox's election last July ended a 71-year hold on power by the Institutional
Revolutionary Party. While calling for sweeping changes, Fox also seemed to try
to mollify loyalists of that party: "We are not trying to erase the past," he
said. But he also declared, "We will not allow anyone to block the road of
democracy."

The plan's No. 2 foreign policy goal is protecting Mexican immigrants abroad.
Fox's top adviser on the issue promised to create a new special prosecutor's
office to protect immigrant rights.

The adviser, Juan Hernandez, said it was unclear whether the new office would
try to hire U.S. lawyers to bring suits in the United States against those
accused of abusing immigrants. Mexico has done that only once in the past.

Rivals to Fox's National Action Party responded cautiously to the plan.

One point likely to spark debate was dropping reference to nonintervention as
the heart of Mexican foreign policy. Mexico often cited that principle in
opposing the U.S. embargo of Cuba and the U.S. role in the Central American wars
of the 1980s.

LOAD-DATE: May 30, 2001

LANGUAGE: English

                  Copyright 2001 St. Louis Post-Dispatch, Inc.


                              175 of 275 DOCUMENTS

                       St. Louis Post-Dispatch (Missouri)

                   June 1, 2001 Friday Five Star Lift Edition
                              Correction Appended

NATION

BYLINE: From News Services

SECTION: NEWS; Nation Briefs Column; Pg. A6

LENGTH: 593 words


EAST

WASHINGTON

Sen. Jeffords reports multiple death threats

Vermont Sen. James M. Jeffords has received multiple death threats since
announcing last week that he is leaving the Republican Party, an aide said
Thursday.

Erik Smulson, Jeffords' press secretary, said the threats had been received at
the senator's offices in Washington and in Montpelier, Vt.

A security detail of U.S. Capitol police accompanied Jeffords on Capitol Hill
late last week. Lt. Dan Nichols of the Capitol police said the protection "will
remain in place until the threat diminishes."

WASHINGTON

New visa plan favors the wealthy, groups charge

Immigration groups charged Thursday that the government is giving the rich and
famous special treatment under Premium Processing, a new program launched today.
It allows foreign celebrities, athletes and executives to get their working
visas in 15 days for a $1,000 payment.

The visa application process takes three months for most foreigners.

"This basically says, if you have money, we'll let you into our country as soon
as we can," said Arthur Gonzalez, a spokesman for the Northern California
Coalition for Immigrant Rights. "If you don't have money, you can wait."

Jennifer Talles, a spokeswoman for the Western Association for Immigration
Rights said, "Why do we need a program that tells immigrants we value them based
on how much money they have?"

WASHINGTON

Fired jail guards say they were following orders

Three jail guards fired for strip- searching visiting students said Thursday
that they had done what they were told to do.

At least nine boys claim to have been strip-searched May 17 on a field trip to
the D.C. Jail. There also have been accusations that other students - including
at least one girl - were strip-searched during other jail tours.

The guards said officials from the District of Columbia Corrections Department
and school employees had instructed them to treat the visiting Evans Middle
School students as they would prisoners. The goal, they said, was to deter the
children from a life of crime.

SOUTH

MIAMI

Cuban agents weren't spying on U.S., lawyers say

Defense attorneys for Cuban secret agents said in closing arguments Thursday
their clients were never ordered to collect U.S. secrets and were only trying to
protect their country from violent extremists.

Attorney Philip Horowitz, whose client infiltrated a group of Cuban exiles, said
the agents were "Cuba's early warning system of insurrection from the north."
Horowitz represents Rene Gonzalez, one of two men accused of acting as
unregistered foreign agents.

Another man, Gerardo Hernandez, is accused of murder conspiracy for helping plan
an encounter between a Cuban MiG and two U.S. civilian planes that killed four
Miami fliers in 1996. Hernandez was also charged with espionage conspiracy,
along with two men accused of infiltrating U.S. military bases.

WEST

SEATTLE

Appeals ruling is blow to logging companies

Logging on thousands of acres in the Northwest was halted Thursday by a federal
appeals court, which upheld a requirement for comprehensive new studies to
protect fish from the potentially devastating impact of timber harvests.

The ruling from the 9th U.S. Circuit Court of Appeals is one of the strongest
blows dealt by the Endangered Species Act to logging in recent years.

The ruling is expected to significantly delay at least two dozen timber sales in
central Oregon - and potentially as many as 170 logging plans on federal lands
in Oregon, Washington and northern California.

LOAD-DATE: May 20, 2003

LANGUAGE: English

NOTES: NATION & WORLD

CORRECTION: The story below contains quotations by representatives of two
immigration groups whose existence cannot be verfied by The Associated Press.
The former AP reporter, Christopher Newton, who wrote the story was unwilling or
unable to provide proof of their or its authenticity.

                  Copyright 2001 St. Louis Post-Dispatch, Inc.


                              176 of 275 DOCUMENTS

                       St. Louis Post-Dispatch (Missouri)

                     June 3, 2001 Sunday Three Star Edition

MEXICAN VILLAGES MOURN FOR RELATIVES LURED NORTH TO THEIR DEATHS IN DESERT;
 COLLAPSE OF CROP PRICES LEADS FARMERS TO MIGRATE ILLEGALLY TO UNITED STATES

BYLINE: The Associated Press

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. A7

LENGTH: 493 words

DATELINE: EL EQUIMITE, MEXICO


Even as Raymundo Barreda and his 15-year-old son were lowered into their graves
Friday, relatives still agonized over the economic pressures that drove the
would-be immigrants from their lush homeland into the unforgiving Arizona
desert.

Raymundo Barreda and Raymundo Jr. were among 11 people buried Friday who came
from these tranquil villages in the mountains of Veracruz state.

"Their journey is over, their walking is done," the Rev. Isaias Huerta Campo
said at the Barredas' funeral.

Father and son were buried side by side in a brick tomb dug by their neighbors
from their own red earth and covered by boards cut from their native forests.
Family and friends wept and tossed flowers into the grave.

Huerta said he had officiated at 15 funerals so far this year in his parish in
nearby San Pedro for migrants who died in the United States in accidents or in
border violence.

As the Barredas were laid to rest, nearly simultaneous funerals were held in
neighboring villages for men who died in the same journey.

"There are so many funerals, everywhere you look," Huerta said.

To the living, many of whom get by on a dollar a day and some of whom think of
going north, he had other words: "I tell my parishioners don't go. But if you
have to, I understand."

The migrants' deaths represent a strange paradox in this verdant territory,
where exotic purple, yellow and white flowers sprout by the rocky roadsides but
making a living is a daily struggle.

"Oh, there's plenty of work here, but there's no money," said Vicente Hernandez
of San Pedro, about a half-mile from El Equimite. His son Lorenzo, 34, was among
those who died in the desert in Arizona on May 24.

Other parts of Mexico have a long tradition of young men traveling north to work
part of the year in the United States, but most families here have stayed put,
depending on their coffee, citrus and bananas crops.

But with the recent collapse of prices for those products - and U.S. work
opportunities - an increasing number each year now make the dangerous odyssey.

"There are a lot of us who are just giving up on farming," Andres Hernandez said
Thursday as chickens, pigs and horses wandered through the yard where his
younger brother Lorenzo lay in a coffin.

Lorenzo was one of 26 immigrants who crossed the border into the Cabeza Prieta
National Wildlife Refuge in southwestern Arizona on May 19. They were found by
the U.S. Border Patrol four scorched days later. Of the 14 found dead, all but
three came from Veracruz state.

Filadelfo Landa, the brother-in-law of Raymundo Barreda Sr., noted a sad irony
of the North American Free Trade Agreement, which slashed at limits on movement
of goods and capital between Mexico and the United States while leaving
restrictions on labor intact.

"We have a free trade agreement with the United States, but that's just a cruel
joke for farmers here," he said. "Products can cross the borders, but they
(workers) can't."

LOAD-DATE: June 4, 2001

LANGUAGE: English

GRAPHIC: PHOTO; Color Photo by THE ASSOCIATED PRESS - The bodies of two illegal
immigrants are loaded onto a plane Wednesday at the airport in Tucson, Ariz. The
two were among 14 who died out of 26 who crossed the border into desert of the
Cabeza Prieta National Wildlife Refuge in southwestern Arizona on May 19. They
were found dead four days later.

                  Copyright 2001 St. Louis Post-Dispatch, Inc.


                              177 of 275 DOCUMENTS

                       St. Louis Post-Dispatch (Missouri)

                    June 24, 2001 Sunday Three Star Edition

BOOM IN OTHER U.S. CITIES HASN'T MATERIALIZED HERE, CENSUS NUMBERS SHOW

BYLINE: Phillip O'Connor Of the Post-Dispatch

SECTION: METRO; Pg. C1

LENGTH: 1547 words


Some say the immigrant population hasn't swelled here because the area is far
from any natural overseas port of entry or from traditional migratory labor
routes.. Experts suggest the slower economy here also is a factor.

The immigration boom that swelled some of the nation's fastest growing
metropolitan areas and helped make up for decades of flight to suburbs in many
others largely bypassed St. Louis during the 1990s.

Among the 25 largest metropolitan areas, the St. Louis region ranked third from
the bottom in the number of immigrants gained, according to Census Bureau
estimates up to 1999. Only the Pittsburgh and Cleveland areas drew fewer
foreign-born people. St. Louis would have been even closer to the bottom if not
for about 13,100 refugees resettled from overseas during the 1990s.

But even that influx of Bosnian, Vietnamese, Russian and Iraqi refugees and
other immigrants did not prevent St. Louis from experiencing the fourth-largest
population loss over the past decade among large cities nationwide. Meanwhile,
the metropolitan area experienced less growth than many others.

Demographers, planners, academics and others offer a variety of theories for the
lack of immigrants settling in the region.

The metropolitan area sits a great distance from any natural overseas port of
entry or from traditional migratory labor routes. It also lacks any large
established ethnic communities like Spanish Harlem in New York, Chinatown in San
Francisco or Little Havana in Miami.

And unlike Chicago, Seattle or Los Angeles, St. Louis lacks any recent history
as a gateway for immigrants.

"There's been no big immigrant experience here that would create word of mouth
that would want to make other immigrants move here," said David Laslo, an
analyst with the Public Policy Research Center at the University of Missouri at
St. Louis.

Little here for low-skilled

Experts also point to a local economy that grew more slowly during the past
decade than those of many other American cities. That made St. Louis a less
attractive destination for job-seekers. The area also offers little in the way
of garment shops, meat packing, seasonal agriculture or other piecework that
often are strong draws for low-skilled immigrant workers.

With few low-skill jobs available, immigrants who move to St. Louis tend to be
better-educated, professionals or to have certain skills that make for better
employment opportunities.

In many cases, those higher-paid immigrants are spreading out across the St.
Louis region, following a growing pattern among recent arrivals to bypass
traditional ethnic enclaves in urban neighborhoods in favor of the suburbs.

"The people who come here are pretty much already acculturated and don't want to
just go to a nice, safe situation where they don't have to speak English," said
Ann Rynearson, director of cultural and community services for the International
Institute, a St. Louis refugee relocation agency.

Rynearson believes the Census Bureau estimates are just plain wrong and that the
number of immigrants here is much higher. More detailed numbers on the immigrant
population will be available later this year when figures from the 2000 census
are released for all immigrants. Figures are currently available for Asians and
Hispanics. International Institute officials conservatively estimate that
100,000 foreign-born people live in the metropolitan area. Of those, nearly
47,000 are refugees.

The 2000 census figures that show St. Louis gained only 2,000 Hispanics in the
last 10 years are ridiculous, Rynearson said.

"Just drive down Cherokee Street," she said, in reference to the burgeoning
Hispanic commercial district.

Contrasts with early history

The apparent lack of a current-day wave of immigrants to St. Louis stands in
broad contrast with the city's early history, when a huge influx of Germans,
Irish and other Europeans built the churches, parks and industries that helped
muscle the city onto the world stage.

On the eve of the Civil War, St. Louis ranked first in the nation in the
proportion of foreign-born people. By 1900, the city still stood seventh among
the 25 largest American cities in number of foreign-born people and 17th in
percentage of foreign-born.

The lack of immigrant growth in the region today contrasts with the swelling of
immigrant numbers in places such as New York, Boston and Chicago that is helping
those cities halt decades of population loss by compensating for white flight to
the suburbs.

At the same time, second-tier cities, including Las Vegas, Phoenix, Denver and
Charlotte, N.C., also recorded huge population increases largely because of an
influx of immigrants.

"The traditional white-black mix in a lot of cities is being enriched with
Asians and Hispanics, including some huge concentrations in places you might not
necessarily think," said Sam Davis, a U.S. Census Bureau demographer.

One out of every 10 U.S. residents -- about 28 million -- is foreign-born,
according to a recent Census Bureau report.

Most of the cities that rank near the bottom in attracting large numbers of
immigrants are industrial centers that once relied on foreign-born workers to
operate factories and mills, such as Baltimore, Cincinnati and Detroit.

"Clearly, these were all cities that 100 years ago were immigrant hubs, and
there's no reason why they couldn't be again," said Mike Duncan, a St. Louis
County planner.

Some cities, including Boston, Philadelphia and Pittsburgh, are aggressively
recruiting newcomers in hopes of adding to their labor forces and reviving urban
neighborhoods.

Such workers will become even more important as baby boomers begin to retire and
the demand for both skilled and unskilled labor increases.

No such coordinated effort is under way in St. Louis, officials say.

"Life here is easy"

Francis Yueh, who came to America 15 years ago from Taiwan, considers St. Louis
a well-kept secret.

"To immigrants outside of this country, St. Louis is not really well known,"
Yueh said. "So when people elect to come to this country, St. Louis is not on
the top of the list."

Yueh, who settled in the St. Louis area after completing college, now works as a
computer programmer for a bank.

"The longer we stay here the more we love St. Louis," he said. "We have no
problems like in a big city with gangs or violence."

The city's cultural attractions, affordable housing and other amenities also
make St. Louis a great place to live, Yueh said.

"In a large city, you get lost," he said. "If a city is too small, you cannot
find a job. St. Louis is a very good size. Summer is too hot and winter is too
cold, but life here is easy and peaceful, and people are friendly even."

Yueh expressed surprise that the area ranked low in the number of immigrants. He
said the Asian population seems to be growing by leaps and bounds.

It has been. According to 2000 census figures, the region's Asian and Hispanic
population each grew by 50 percent over the past decade. Still, combined they
make up only 3 percent of the region's population.

Hema Patel said she can walk into her local grocery at midnight and chances are
she'll run into an Indian acquaintance. Patel, 35, came to the U.S. in 1979 to
attend school. She and her family operate two stores that cater to the Indian
population.

"I live in Maryland Heights, and I think half the population is from India," she
said. "It's like Little India here."

Some, like Rynearson, think the gradual immigrant growth occurring here may be
to the city's benefit.

"We've been able to gradually absorb the newcomers," she said.

In doing so, the St. Louis region avoided the problems encountered by many
metropolitan areas, where education and social service systems were overwhelmed
by large numbers of immigrants. The smaller numbers also have made it easier for
St. Louis to absorb the new cultures into the urban tapestry without losing the
region's historic identity, Rynearson said.

Still, Duncan, the St. Louis County planner, said he doubted that any of the
cities that experienced large population growth would trade places with St.
Louis. In many cases, immigrants are providing the entrepreneurial efforts that
are helping to revitalize once-declining areas, he said.

"It's always been one of America's advantages that immigrants are risk-takers,"
Duncan said. "That kind of spirit and energy is the kind of thing that's hard to
quantify, but it's the kind of thing you want in your community. Having that
makes up for having to spend more money on public transportation or
English-as-second-language classes in the schools."

=====================

Number of new immigrants from 1990-99, according to the U.S. Census Bureau


New York    974,599
Los Angeles-Long Beach 902,097

Chicago 366,607

Miami 337,174

Washington 240,117

Orange County, Calif. 233,168

Houston 209,859

San Diego 164,016

Boston 137,313

Oakland, Calif. 135,027

Dallas 132,574

Riverside-San Bernardino, Calif. 119,038

Philadelphia 91,672

Atlanta 82,580

Seattle-Bellevue-Everett 79,353

Nassau-Suffolk, N.Y. 70,812

Detroit 68,449

Phoenix-Mesa 62,280

Minneapolis- St. Paul 45,981

Tampa-St. Petersburg, Fla. 42,826

Denver 41,029

Baltimore 32,727

St. Louis 25,310

Cleveland 17,247

Pittsburgh 8,935

LOAD-DATE: June 24, 2001

LANGUAGE: English

NOTES: INFLUX OF IMMIGRANTS; Reporter Phillip O'Connor:; E-mail:
poconnor@post-dispatch.com; Phone: 314-340-8321

GRAPHIC: PHOTO; Color Photo by J.B. FORBES / POST-DISPATCH - Enrique Valencia,
24, weighs pork for a customer at the Carniceria El Torito, a Mexican grocery,
on Cherokee Street at Iowa Avenue on Thursday. Valencia came to St. Louis from
Mexico a couple years ago. Census figures indicate the area gained 2,000
Hispanic immigrants in the last decade, but one official who works with
immigrants here says that figure is low.

TYPE: PROFILE; IMMIGRATION; ST. LOUIS AREA

                  Copyright 2001 St. Louis Post-Dispatch, Inc.


                              178 of 275 DOCUMENTS

                       St. Louis Post-Dispatch (Missouri)

                  June 24, 2001 Sunday Early Five Star Edition

NATION

BYLINE: From News Services

SECTION: NEWS; Nation Briefs Column; Pg. A6

LENGTH: 600 words


WEST

BLAINE, Wash.

Two men are arrested in slaying of toddler

After a weeklong manhunt, authorities near the Canadian border have arrested two
men accused of killing an Albuquerque, N.M., toddler in what police believe was
an attack intended for rival drug dealers living nearby.

Jesus Barthelemy, 27, and Libore Manuel Espinoza, 28, were stopped on an
interstate in northern Washington on Friday, said Roy Hoffman of the U.S.
Customs Service. The driver of the vehicle also was arrested.

Barthelemy and Espinoza, both Cuban refugees, were arrested on murder warrants
in the death of Joslin Cisneros, 2. The girl was killed and her mother and
sister were wounded Monday night as they watched television in their living
room.

LOS ANGELES

French citizen wins political asylum

An immigration judge has approved political asylum for a French citizen who
claimed he was targeted by authorities there for trying to expose judicial
corruption and a child sex ring.

Political asylum is typically reserved for people who can show prior persecution
or a well-founded fear of persecution if they return to their native country. It
is rarely won by West Europeans.

The Immigration and Naturalization Service, which opposed asylum for Karim
Christian Kamal, has not decided whether to appeal, a spokeswoman said.

Kamal claims he was targeted by French authorities because he exposed a
pedophile ring that ensnared his daughter. He claims that while he and his
family lived in France, his ex-wife involved their daughter in the ring.

DENVER

More flight cancellations are on tap after storm

More cancellations and flight delays are expected for this week at Denver
International Airport as several airlines reshuffle their fleets and work to
repair dozens of aircraft damaged in a freakish hailstorm Wednesday night.

Frontier Airlines, which lost three of 27 planes because of hail, expected to
cancel four to six flights a day through July 1.

The cancellation schedule changes daily, a Frontier spokeswoman said.

A spokeswoman for United Airlines, which had 32 planes damaged in the storm,
could not say how many flights would be affected in the coming days.

United has placed 23 aircraft from its reserve ranks into service to pick up the
slack.

SOUTH

KENNESAW, Ga.

Nazi culture course is pulled from catalog

School officials worried that a course titled "The Culture of Nazi Germany"
would give Kennesaw State University an anti-Semitic image have pulled the class
from the fall catalog.

The university has been sued at least five times in the past decade by former
professors claiming anti-Semitism, said Ed Rugg, chief academic officer.

A course title and description emphasizing "Nazi" could be misinterpreted and
has the potential to scare off donors, Rugg wrote in an e-mail to the department
chairwoman who authorized the course, The Atlanta Journal-Constitution reported
Saturday.

EAST

KATONAH, N.Y.

White House spokesman Fleischer becomes ill

White House spokesman Ari Fleischer nearly collapsed while delivering the
commencement speech for his old high school and had to be helped from the
podium.

Fleischer, 40, was reciting passages from his 1978 Fox Lane High School yearbook
Friday night when he fell silent for about 20 seconds, grew pale, then slumped
over.

Emergency medical technicians jumped onstage, sat him down, removed his tie and
jacket and had the stage lights dimmed to cool him.

Fleischer later attributed his wooziness to heat, long working hours and lack of
sleep. He received treatment at an ambulance but refused to be taken to a
hospital.

LOAD-DATE: June 24, 2001

LANGUAGE: English

                  Copyright 2001 St. Louis Post-Dispatch, Inc.


                              179 of 275 DOCUMENTS

                       St. Louis Post-Dispatch (Missouri)

                 July 4, 2001 Wednesday Five Star Lift Edition

INDEPENDENCE DAY CARRIES ADDED MEANING FOR 70 NEWLY NATURALIZED METRO AREA
CITIZENS;
 RESTAURATEUR FROM BULGARIA IS THRILLED, BUT CEREMONY IS BITTERSWEET FOR ONE
FAMILY

BYLINE: Greg Jonsson Of The Post-Dispatch

SECTION: METRO; Pg. B1

LENGTH: 644 words


Independence Day is just another day off work to many Americans.

For Latchesar Dichev Kaymakanov, one of 70 new citizens naturalized at a
ceremony Tuesday at the Old Courthouse, today is the first full day of a new
life.

"I feel like a new person," said Kaymakanov, moments after receiving his
citizenship certificate. "I feel like a real person now. Like the judge said, we
are not subjects, we are citizens."

Every month, the Immigration and Naturalization Service holds ceremonies to
swear in and welcome new citizens. But only the ceremonies near Flag Day,
Independence Day and the anniversary of the Constitution are at the Old
Courthouse.

The men, women and children at Tuesday's ceremony were born as far away as
India, Vietnam, Bosnia and Kenya and as close as Canada, Jamaica, Mexico and
Haiti -- 30 countries in all. In their new lives in America, they are teachers,
students, engineers and pastors.

They left their homelands for different reasons, and some have fared better than
others in St. Louis, but all seemed hopeful as U.S. District Court Judge Stephen
N. Limbaugh declared them citizens.

They smiled and laughed as the judge called them "fellow Americans" for the
first time.

Kaymakanov, 47, came to the United States from Bulgaria in 1995 and was joined
by his wife and two daughters. He wanted to offer his children a better
education and a brighter future.

His 20-year-old daughter, Latchesara Latchesarova Kaymakanova, also became a
citizen Tuesday.

When Kaymakanov arrived in America, he began working at Mario's Pizza in
Chesterfield for $4.25 an hour. A few years later, he bought the restaurant.

"My dad came here with $125 in his pocket, and now he owns his own business,"
said Kaymakanova, an international business student at Webster University.
"That's not possible anywhere else in the world."

They planned to celebrate the special Independence Day at their home in
Chesterfield with family and friends.

"We're going to barbecue," Kaymakanova said. "We're doing it the American way."

But for one family from Bosnia, the ceremony was bittersweet.

Ekrem and Ulfeta Ducanovic and their son, Hajrudin, have found opportunity and
tragedy in America.

In 1998, their 11-year-old daughter, Selma, was kidnapped from their home near
Bevo Mill and murdered. The Ducanovics now live in south St. Louis County.

Limbaugh, the judge who declared the family citizens Tuesday, also was the judge
who presided over the sentencing of the man who pleaded guilty to kidnapping and
killing their daughter. In February 2000, Limbaugh sentenced David Ray Martin to
life in prison without parole.

"I feel great, but something is missing in my heart," Ulfeta Ducanovic said.

Ibrahim Albert, originally from Egypt, viewed Tuesday's ceremony as a chance to
play an active role in this country's political system.

"It gives us the opportunity to really become part of society," said his wife,
Linda Albert, who is from Canada. "We really noticed it when the elections came
and we couldn't vote. It's an opportunity to fully participate."

For others, life in America will change little.

Elementary school teacher Samer Zoughaib, who has lived in the United States
since 1984, said the biggest difference for him will come when he visits
Lebanon, where he grew up. In the past, he has been denied visas and detained
for hours or days in Germany and France as he tried to travel to Lebanon.

Customs agents there saw his Lebanese passport and treated him like a terrorist,
he said. He hopes he and his wife, originally from Kirkwood, will be treated
equally now that he can get a U.S. passport.

"I'm probably not going to wake up tomorrow and feel any different," said
Zoughaib, 33. "Being able to leave and enter the country will be the difference.
For the first time, I won't have to look over my shoulder all the time."

LOAD-DATE: July 4, 2001

LANGUAGE: English

NOTES: Reporter Greg Jonsson:; E-mail: gjonsson@post-dispatch.com; Phone:
314-340-8253

GRAPHIC: PHOTO; Color Photo by ROBERT COHEN / POST-DISPATCH - Red, white and
new; The Ducanovic family had mixed emotions at naturalization ceremonies at the
Old Courthouse on Tuesday. Ulfeta Ducanovic brought her two children, Hajrudin
(center) and Selma, to St. Louis in 1994 while husband Ekrem (left) was still
fighting in the war in Bosnia. Selma was kidnapped and killed in 1998. "One
person is missing today, you know," said Ulfeta (right), wiping away a tear.

                  Copyright 2001 St. Louis Post-Dispatch, Inc.


                              180 of 275 DOCUMENTS

                       St. Louis Post-Dispatch (Missouri)

             July 4, 2001 Wednesday Illinois Five Star Lift Edition

FOURTH CARRIES ADDED MEANING FOR 70 NEWLY NATURALIZED CITIZENS HERE;
 CEREMONY IS BITTERSWEET FOR ONE BOSNIAN FAMILY

BYLINE: Greg Jonsson Of The Post-Dispatch

SECTION: METRO; Pg. B4

LENGTH: 606 words


Independence Day is just another day off work to many Americans.

For Latchesar Dichev Kaymakanov, one of 70 new citizens naturalized at a
ceremony Tuesday at the Old Courthouse, today is the first full day of a new
life.

"I feel like a new person," said Kaymakanov, moments after receiving his
citizenship certificate. "I feel like a real person now. Like the judge said, we
are not subjects, we are citizens."

Every month, the Immigration and Naturalization Service holds ceremonies to
swear in and welcome new citizens. But only the ceremonies near Flag Day,
Independence Day and the anniversary of the Constitution are at the Old
Courthouse.

The men, women and children at Tuesday's ceremony were born as far away as
India, Vietnam, Bosnia and Kenya and as close as Canada, Jamaica, Mexico and
Haiti - 30 countries in all. In their new lives in America, they are teachers,
students, engineers and pastors.

They left their homelands for different reasons, and some have fared better than
others in St. Louis, but all seemed hopeful as U.S. District Court Judge Stephen
N. Limbaugh declared them citizens.

They smiled and laughed as the judge called them "fellow Americans" for the
first time.

Kaymakanov, 47, came to the United States from Bulgaria in 1995 and was joined
by his wife and two daughters. He wanted to offer his children a better
education and a brighter future.

His 20-year-old daughter, Latchesara Latchesarova Kaymakanova, also became a
citizen Tuesday.

When Kaymakanov arrived in America, he began working at Mario's Pizza in
Chesterfield for $4.25 an hour. A few years later, he bought the restaurant.

"My dad came here with $125 in his pocket, and now he owns his own business,"
said Kaymakanova, an international business student at Webster University.
"That's not possible anywhere else in the world."

They planned to celebrate the special Independence Day at their home in
Chesterfield with family and friends.

"We're going to barbecue," Kaymakanova said. "We're doing it the American way."

But for one family from Bosnia, the ceremony was bittersweet.

Ekrem and Ulfeta Ducanovic and their son, Hajrudin, have found opportunity and
tragedy in America.

In 1998, their 11-year-old daughter, Selma, was kidnapped from their home near
Bevo Mill and murdered. The Ducanovics now live in south St. Louis County.

Limbaugh, the judge who declared the family citizens Tuesday, also was the judge
who presided over the sentencing of the man who pleaded guilty to kidnapping and
killing their daughter. In February 2000, Limbaugh sentenced David Ray Martin to
life in prison without parole.

"I feel great, but something is missing in my heart," Ulfeta Ducanovic said.

Ibrahim Albert, originally from Egypt, viewed Tuesday's ceremony as a chance to
play an active role in this country's political system.

"It gives us the opportunity to really become part of society," said his wife,
Linda Albert, who is from Canada. "We really noticed it when the elections came
and we couldn't vote. It's an opportunity to fully participate."

For others, life in America will change little.

Elementary school teacher Samer Zoughaib, who has lived in the United States
since 1984, said the biggest difference for him will come when he visits
Lebanon, where he grew up. In the past, he has been denied visas and detained
for hours or days in Germany and France as he tried to travel to Lebanon.

Customs agents there saw his Lebanese passport and treated him like a terrorist,
he said. He hopes he and his wife, originally from Kirkwood, will be treated
equally now that he can get a U.S. passport.

LOAD-DATE: July 4, 2001

LANGUAGE: English

NOTES: Reporter Greg Jonsson:; E-mail: gjonsson@post-dispatch.com; Phone:
314-340-8253

                  Copyright 2001 St. Louis Post-Dispatch, Inc.


                              181 of 275 DOCUMENTS

                       St. Louis Post-Dispatch (Missouri)

                   July 9, 2001 Monday Five Star Lift Edition

REFUGEES FIND HOPE IN NEW CITY, NEW LIFE (1 OF 2 ARTICLES)

BYLINE: Ahmad F. Barkzai

SECTION: EDITORIAL; Commentary Column; Pg. B7

LENGTH: 517 words


IMMIGRATION

I was born with civil war in my country, Afghanistan, and grew up there. Due to
the intensity and severity of the war, we had to leave for Pakistan and later
for India. In India, we were accepted to immigrate to the United States as
refugees. Our destination was St. Louis. The name was familiar to me but I knew
nothing about it. My curiosity took me to different Internet cafes to search
about St. Louis. I usually got pictures of the Arch about which I had dreamt a
lot a long time ago. A few months later I found myself under the splendid Arch
in St. Louis.

At first I was very concerned about dealing with a new country, people and new
culture and customs, but very soon I noticed that people are friendly and
helpful. Whenever I had a question or misunderstanding, people answered or
corrected me with a smiling face. I felt relieved.

My largest worry is security. Sometimes I don't feel secure when I go some
places, especially at night. The biggest obsticle I have faced is that I cannot
work in the field I studied and worked in, because I am new and do not have
American experience.

I was impressed seeing tall buildings, large highways and huge supermarkets and
stores because I had never seen such things in my country, Pakistan or India.
Everything was a new experience for me.

One of the things I liked very much was a public library. I remember the first
time I approached a public library and I did not have appropriate documents to
obtain a membership. The clerk still allowed me to work on a computer, and I was
very pleased. Although I could speak English before coming to the United States,
my English has improved much since moving here.

Life has been challenging for us for many reasons. We came to the United States
with many expectations. For one thing, the government in our country subsidized
everything such as transportation, education and utilities. We had to pay for
these things in St. Louis. I saw many challenges blocking my progress, but I was
encouraged hearing the American expression, "You can make it."

I started working and, for the first time, realized the significance and value
of working and being self-reliant in a new environment. Obtaining the same
rights and privileges as an American has been very encouraging for me, too. The
only difference between an American and me was that I had to begin to build my
life from zero. Fortunately the cost of living in St. Louis is not high. That
makes it easier for us to cope with all the challenges we encounter and to
establish a new, prosperous life here.

Our feelings and sentiments had been hurt back in our country, so we needed a
shoulder to cry on. Fortunately we found people who listened to us and
sympathized and showed us the way to erase those bad recollections.

Some of my hopes came true, but some disappeared -- maybe I had hoped wrong or
maybe I lacked knowledge about St. Louis. Now I feel myself a free man in a free
country and free city where numerous opportunities are available. By using these
opportunities I want to establish a prosperous and blissful life.

LOAD-DATE: July 20, 2001

LANGUAGE: English

NOTES: The above articles were contributed by the International Institute of St.
Louis, which helps refugees learn English, find housing and jobs and counsels
newcomers. Last year, more than 8,500 immigrants and refugees from 60 countries
received services at the institute.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO; Photo not Available tms; Photo Headshot - Ahmad F. Barkzai --
Afghanistan

TYPE: PROFILE; IMMIGRATION

                  Copyright 2001 St. Louis Post-Dispatch, Inc.


                              182 of 275 DOCUMENTS

                       St. Louis Post-Dispatch (Missouri)

                   July 9, 2001 Monday Five Star Lift Edition

REFUGEES FIND HOPE IN NEW CITY, NEW LIFE (2 OF 2 ARTICLES)

BYLINE: Asmira Redzic

SECTION: EDITORIAL; Commentary Column; Pg. B7

LENGTH: 500 words


IMMIGRATION

I've been here about a month and maybe it's not much time to be able to make my
own opinion about life in St. Louis as well as the U.S.A., but you can notice
some differences from the first moment.

Before I came here, I didn't have any idea what America looked like. I had seen
many movies, but thought that they were only movies. Now many things from the
movies are real for me. For example, to see lightning and thunder like happens
here. It's really scary, but amazing at the same time. I thought the sky was
touching the Earth, and it would crush me.

There are more things that many foreigners are scared of or complain about, but
I think it's because these things are strange for us, and we need to get used to
them.

I say every bad side has a good side. A car is not so necessary in my country as
in the United States, but everybody here can afford a car. And the construction
of houses is different. In Bosnia, all houses have an area in which people enter
the house, take their shoes off and then go into living room through another
door. In St. Louis houses, you enter directly into a living room, and you can
almost see what every room looks like. Many Bosnian women complain about this. I
like the big spaces that we can find everywhere. The streets, rooms, stores,
parking zones, even refrigerators are big.

Almost everything here has order by law. Traffic is one simple example. There
are light signals and signs that make driving easier.

In Bosnia, all parents take care of their children. There is no doubt about
that, but children are not protected by the law like here. To not be allowed to
leave your child alone at home, even if he or she is 11 years old, and go
shopping, was for many Bosnian refugees something new. That is something like a
rule for American people. This rule has good intentions, and I like it.

Americans do seem to want to avoid hurting someone's feelings. They are always
very polite. But at the same time, it makes me confused because Bosnians say
what they think directly.

Other Bosnians have a more difficult time because they must start from the
beginning, like a child, learning a language. They must earn some money to buy a
house that they already had in Bosnia, go into the store with the fear of being
misunderstood, get used to this weather, and so on. But everybody needs time to
assimiliate into the country.

What's really funny is that America offers so much that people don't even
notice. Everybody has the same rights, whatever their religion or nationality.
Everybody can go to college, whenever they want to, no matter how old they are.
Everybody can get a job and make progress. America and St. Louis are much more
than I expected. It takes, but it also gives. I can make my dream come true if
I'm ready to try and give my best. And that is to learn English, go to a
college, have a good job, try different thing s and have a good life. All doors
are open. I've only got to choose my door and go through it.

LOAD-DATE: July 20, 2001

LANGUAGE: English

NOTES: The above articles were contributed by the International Institute of St.
Louis, which helps refugees learn English, find housing and jobs and counsels
newcomers. Last year, more than 8,500 immigrants and refugees from 60 countries
received services at the institute.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO; Photo not Available tms; Photo Headshot - Asmira Redzic --
Bosnia

TYPE: PROFILE; IMMIGRATION; SIDEBAR STORY

                  Copyright 2001 St. Louis Post-Dispatch, Inc.


                              183 of 275 DOCUMENTS

                       St. Louis Post-Dispatch (Missouri)

                   July 9, 2001 Monday Five Star Lift Edition

IT TAKES A CITY (AND A LOT OF HARD WORK) TO ATTRACT IMMIGRANTS

BYLINE: Don Hammonds

SECTION: EDITORIAL; Commentary Column; Pg. B7

LENGTH: 514 words

DATELINE: PITTSBURGH


IMMIGRATION

Immigration is the new "darling" being courted by cities everywhere. But what
must a city do to become attractive to immigrants?

A look at two medium-sized cities -- St. Louis and Pittsburgh -- can be
instructive in understanding the allure of immigration.

Pittsburgh received something of a black eye when The New York Times ranked it
last among the 25 biggest metropolitan areas in terms of the number of
immigrants to arrive here. The net international migration into the city was
8,935 persons. or about 0.4 percent of the 1999 area population of 2,331,336.
St. Louis, with a 1999 population of 2,591,456, did somewhat better with a net
international migration of 25,310, or 1.0 percent.

A cursory look at both cities suggests a number of factors that should work in
their favor in drawing foreign-born residents. Both have high-quality,
affordable housing, rich cultural institutions, prestigious universities and
strong biotechnology and medical research industries. One would think these
quality-of-life features would be draws to immigrant groups seeking new homes.

So how do these two cities do better at attracting immigrants?

* The first place to look for an explanation -- and the first place to start
making changes -- is the structure of the local economy. Moreover, the cities
that are doing well in attracting immigrants have strong entrepreneurial
components and plenty of venture capital to help finance start-ups.

* Second only to jobs, image affects how likely foreign-born people are to
locate in a city, according to the World Affairs Council in Pittsburgh. To be
blunt, it's tough to draw people to your doorstep when few of those looking to
move even know you exist.

Lovely as they are to those of us in the know, neither St. Louis nor Pittsburgh
has a high national or international profile. The lack of energetic, concerted
national and international promotional campaigns means you're pretty much
leaving people to base their opinions on what they've heard.

* Word of mouth among family members and friends figures largely for
foreign-born would-be residents. As a result, Pittsburgh organizations are
laying the groundwork for making the most of groups that already are here, such
as the highly educated Indian and Asian communities.

* The urgency of getting more foreign-born residents into the Pittsburgh area
has reached the leaders of local foundations -- and they are responding. The
Heinz endowment, for example, recently announced a series of grants to get
things going.

The World Affairs Council of Pittsburgh was given $150,000 to reach out to local
international groups and offer community education about the benefits of
diversity.

* Those who arrive in St. Louis and Pittsburgh will want to know about
resources, support groups and services that are available to help them get
settled. And they should be able to access that information from distant locales
before they arrive. Pittsburgh is preparing a global Web site that includes
community resources and service listings. St. Louis should do likewise.

LOAD-DATE: July 9, 2001

LANGUAGE: English

NOTES: Don Hammonds is an associate editor and member of the Pittsburgh
Post-Gazette editorial board. He was an urban affairs writer for the St. Louis
Globe Democrat.

TYPE: PROFILE; IMMIGRATION; SIDEBAR STORY

                  Copyright 2001 St. Louis Post-Dispatch, Inc.


                              184 of 275 DOCUMENTS

                       St. Louis Post-Dispatch (Missouri)

                 July 14, 2001 Saturday Five Star Lift Edition

SOME IMMIGRANTS HAIL DECISION ON GAMES, WHILE OTHERS SAY IT LEGITIMIZES CHINA'S
RIGHTS ABUSES

BYLINE: Phillip O'Connor Of The Post-Dispatch Tonya Sydnor Of The Post-Dispatch
Staff Contributed To This Story.

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 11

LENGTH: 712 words


* Opponents cite China's suppression of civil liberties. Others say the decision
will encourage China to continue improving its human rights records.

It would be understandable to see Grace Lo marching alongside those opposed to
the 2008 Olympic Games in Beijing.

When Lo was a small child, her family fled China for Taiwan to escape the
communist takeover led by Mao Tse-tung.

But Lo is one of several China natives now living in the St. Louis area who
expressed pleasure Friday about the International Olympic Committee's decision
to award the Summer Games to the land of their birth.

"When I see China, I don't see the government, I see the people of China." said
Lo, a Ralston Purina Co. employee who has lived in the United States for about
30 years. "The Olympics are not awarded to the government, but to the Chinese
people.

"It definitely will be a milestone. The Olympic Games will open China to the
world more than ever and will improve social, economic and human rights
accordingly."

Others criticized the committee's decision to award the Games to Beijing.

Opponents cite China's history of human rights abuses and suppression of civil
liberties. They contend awarding the Games to China legitimizes the actions of
the communist government and could lead to even more abuses.

On Friday afternoon, a group of 14 Falun Gong practitioners held a news
conference along the St. Louis riverfront to raise awareness of Falun Gong
persecutions in China.

Though Falun Gong practitioners insist they are nonpolitical and only care about
their freedom to practice here and abroad, many had mixed emotions about
awarding the Olympics to China.

Fei Lin, of Oakland, Calif., said after the news conference that he believed the
decision might draw more attention to the Chinese government and its human
rights policies. But he is afraid practitioners in China will experience more
violence as government officials attempt to cover up evidence of persecutions.

"It might help to expose what leaders are doing now, but I'm afraid from now
until 2008, things will be intensified," Lin said. "The Chinese government will
try to eliminate all of its problems and that could make things even worse."

Larry Liu, a graduate student at Washington University who attended the Falun
Gong news conference, said he hoped officials would monitor China to ensure the
government would not renege on its promise to improve human rights policies.

"As a Chinese citizen, I'm glad to hear that the 2008 Olympics will held there,
but I wish to urge the international community to monitor."

Immigration attorney Tony Gao said it would be wrong for the world's most
populous nation and a traditional Olympic powerhouse to be denied the games
based on politics and protests.

"China deserves the chance to hold this event," said Gao, who was born in
Beijing, raised in Shanghai and moved to the United States in 1988. "It's long
overdue."

"China is moving in the right direction in economic rights and human rights. How
much better? Better is better. I wish it was much better, but it will take
time."

Others said it was unreasonable to single out China for human rights abuses that
also occur in other parts of the world. They also said it was unfair to use the
United States as the basis for measuring human rights progress in China.

"We tend to use 250 years of accomplishments to measure China, which has just 25
years of progress," said George S. Wang, dean of the business division at
Meramec Community College. "Sometimes, we tend to be too anxious and expect too
much. Overall, human rights in China are not perfect, but they are improving."

Wang was born about 130 miles south of Beijing and lived in Taiwan before moving
to the United States as a student. He believes using the Games as a tool to
force political or societal change is wrong.

"The people want this Game, not the government," Wang said. "It's a great thing
for many Chinese, regardless of their political thinking or religious
background. China is still of the Third World. It's still a poor country. It has
accomplished a lot in the last 20 years, including human rights. And the
majority of people want the Games held in China so they c an show the world how
much they have accomplished."

LOAD-DATE: July 14, 2001

LANGUAGE: English

NOTES: COVER STORY; Reporter Phillip O'Connor:; E-mail:
poconnor@post-dispatch.com; Phone: 314-340-8321

GRAPHIC: PHOTO; Photo by KAREN ELSHOUT/POST-DISPATCH - Falun Gong practitioners
demonstrate postures at a news conference Friday downtown to call attention to
persecution of the group in China. Some practitioners said later they opposed
the decision to award the Olympics to Beijing.

                  Copyright 2001 St. Louis Post-Dispatch, Inc.


                              185 of 275 DOCUMENTS

                       St. Louis Post-Dispatch (Missouri)

                 July 19, 2001 Thursday Five Star Lift Edition

A-B PURSUES BECK'S FOR EDGE IN IMPORT MARKET ;
 ST. LOUIS BREWER COULD ADD SOLID GERMAN BRAND TO PREMIUM OFFERINGS

BYLINE: Thomas Lee Of The Post-Dispatch

SECTION: BUSINESS; Pg. C1

LENGTH: 838 words


Call it a potential homecoming of sorts.

Since Brauerei Beck & Co., the German maker of Beck's beer, said Monday that it
might be for sale, Anheuser-Busch Cos., whose founding families immigrated from
Germany, has emerged as a front-runner to buy it, according to industry experts
and a spokeswoman for Beck's beer.

Experts say such a deal would be a stunning coup for the St. Louis-based
company, which is a relative lightweight at international beer sales despite the
lofty title of the world's largest brewer.

It might also signal a new aggressiveness on the part of A-B to pursue
acquisitions overseas, especially as the industry consolidates.

In the United States, a deal for Beck's would give Anheuser-Busch a leg up
against foreign imports in the superpremium category.

"Is it worth acquiring? Absolutely," said Tom Pirko, a beverage-industry
consultant based in California. "Beck's would add significantly to the A-B
package."

Stephen J. Burrows, president and chief executive of Anheuser-Busch
International Inc., said Wednesday that the company "does not comment on
speculation or rumors about mergers, acquisitions or other business
partnerships."

This isn't the first time Anheuser-Busch has pursued Beck's. Previously, the
brewer talked with Beck's about buying a minority stake in the company.

Despite its profitability, Beck's has been caught between the industry's
equivalent of a rock and a hard place. It is Germany's fifth-largest brewery,
unable to gain market share against the hodgepodge of major players and local
breweries that make up the ultracompetitive German beer industry.

Though Beck's is Germany's largest exporter, analysts say the company lacks the
necessary distribution system to expand its business overseas, a key point
because Beck's relies on its exports to generate profits and also to offset flat
domestic sales.

Sixty percent of Beck's sales comes from exports. The largest customer is the
United States, followed by Britain and Italy.

"Beck's has not grown as fast as other imports," said Benj Steinman, editor of
Beer Marketer's Insights, noting the imports achieve double-digit growth in the
United State every year. "It doesn't have the scale against Corona or Heineken."

So, how does Beck's fit into Anheuser-Busch's international strategy?

Experts are unsure. It's no secret that A-B has cast glances overseas, where
demand for beer is expected to grow 3 percent a year, nearly twice the rate of
growth in the United States.

But the company has indicated that it sees most of that potential within nations
in South America and Asia, such as China, which the company expects to become
the world's largest beer market.

Anheuser-Busch would have a significantly more difficult time competing in
Europe, particularly in Germany, where beer is considered a national commodity.

Sales of foreign imports pose a significant threat to A-B, growing at a
double-digit pace each year, a rate the company cannot match despite its
dominance in the United States. Imports make up 10 percent of beer sales in this
country.

Beck's, the seventh-largest imported beer in the United States, would let A-B
distributors offer customers a respected foreign brand to complement its other
premium offerings, which include Michelob, Tequiza, "Doc" Otis, and Killarney's.

Anheuser-Busch "has been trying to get an import to their distributors for a
while," said Eric Shepard, vice president and executive editor of Beer
Marketer's Insights. Beck's, he said, also would help A-B to persuade more
distributors to sell its products exclusively.

Whatever the rationale, one thing is clear: By purchasing Beck's, Anheuser-Busch
would emerge as a major global deal broker, experts said.

Its highest-profile maneuver has been a 50.2 percent stake in Modelo, Mexico's
largest beer company and maker of the Corona Extra brand, the top-selling import
in the United States.

In the past five years, the company has invested more than $1 billion in Modelo.
According to a German magazine, A-B might pay as much as $860 million to buy
Beck's.

"This might signal confidence (on A-B's part) to be more aggressive," said Bill
Finnie, a former director of strategic planning for Anheuser-Busch. "They are
going after a Germany, for goodness' sake. That is the heart of the beer world."

======================

Top-selling beer brands

1. Budweiser (United States)

2. Bud Light (United States)

3. Asahi Super Dry (Japan)

4. Skol (Brazil)

5. Corona Extra (Mexico)

6. Heineken (Netherlands)

7. Brahma Chopp (Brazil)

8. Miller Lite (United States)

9. Coors Light (United States)

10. Polar Polar (Venezuela)

Source: Impact Databank

=======================

Top imported beer brands

1. Corona Extra (Mexico)

2. Heineken (Netherlands)

3. Labatt's Blue (Canada)

4. Tecate (Mexico)

5. Guinness Stout (Ireland)

6. Foster's (Australia)

7. Beck's (Germany)

8. Bass Ale (Great Britain)

9. Amstel Light (Netherlands)

10. Molsen Ice (Canada)

Source: Beer Marketer's Insights

LOAD-DATE: July 19, 2001

LANGUAGE: English

NOTES: Reporter Thomas Lee: E-mail: tlee@post-dispatch.com Phone: 314-340-8209

GRAPHIC: GRAPHIC; Graphic / Charts (See text field.); (1) Top-selling beer
brands; Source: Impact Databank; (2) Top imported beer brands; Source: Beer
Marketer's Insights

                  Copyright 2001 St. Louis Post-Dispatch, Inc.


                              186 of 275 DOCUMENTS

                       St. Louis Post-Dispatch (Missouri)

                  August 5, 2001 Sunday Five Star Lift Edition

IMMIGRANTS, MEXICAN RELATIVES VISIT ACROSS FENCE;
 U.S. CRACKDOWN ON CROSSINGS FORCES FAMILIES TO KEEP THEIR DISTANCE

BYLINE: The Associated Press

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. A4

LENGTH: 701 words

DATELINE: BORDER FIELD STATE PARK, CALIF.


Enrique Sandoval and his sister are seeing each other for the first time in nine
years, but they can't embrace.

They stand on opposite sides of a 12-foot-high fence that divides the United
States from Mexico on a grassy plateau near the Pacific Ocean.

Sandoval's U.S. residency permit prohibits him from re-entering the country if
he leaves. His sister, Maria Encarnacion, doesn't have a visa to enter the
United States.

So, like many others, they spend the afternoon visiting through a chain-link
fence under the watchful eyes of Border Patrol agents.

"It's not bad. It's a beautiful park and nobody bothers us," said Sandoval, 44,
the owner of a San Diego house-painting business.

Sandoval and his wife, Gloria, have pulled lawn chairs, a small folding table
and a large cooler to the edge of Border Field State Park. His sister is inches
away in Tijuana, Mexico, in a neighborhood of expensive homes, a bull ring and
restaurants with ocean views.

Sandoval, who came to the United States illegally 23 years ago, praises the
Border Patrol for keeping the park safe.

His sister, who lives in Guadalajara, is visiting Tijuana for three weeks.
Sandoval's brother lives in Tijuana. Sandoval said he planned another visit in
the park and is grateful for the opportunity.

"We're close, but we're far," he said.

Such meetings have become common, in part because a U.S. crackdown on illegal
immigration has made it more difficult for people to cross back and forth
between the two countries.

Afternoon in the park

But that same crackdown also has made it possible for families to visit the
park, where people can be found chatting through the fence most weekend
afternoons.

Before late 1994 - when the United States doubled the patrol agents in San Diego
and added lights, motion sensors and new fencing - the park was a no man's land
of smugglers and immigrants and bandits who preyed on them.

Crowds of migrants gathered to storm the border at night, seeking to overwhelm
the few agents on patrol. So many migrants and smugglers gathered that food
vendors lined up in Tijuana.

"It was chaotic down there," said Border Patrol agent Fernando Grijalva. "I
don't miss those days at all."

As part of Operation Gatekeeper, the United States installed a steel wall made
of surplus Navy landing mats that begins some 50 yards out in the ocean and runs
along the border.

Several sections of chain link fence were left in the state park, forming
windows where families and friends can maintain limited contacts.

The security has caused illegal immigration to dwindle to almost nothing, and
makes for some odd picnics. Sandoval could only watch as his sister's young
children played in the grass with his brother's family.

"Like being in jail"

At the same spot a day earlier, Linda and Tony Simiano of Los Angeles spread
blankets just inches from her brother and his wife, Guillermo and Sofia Ramirez,
who had come to Tijuana from Ensenada, 70 miles to the south.

Through a small hole carved at the base of the fence, Linda Simiano passed
slices of pepperoni pizza on a paper plate to her brother and sister-in-law.

"It's a little like being in jail," Guillermo Ramirez said with a laugh. "But
it's good to see my sister."

Most others are reluctant to discuss their lives, fearing repercussions that
could hurt their immigration status.

Similar scenes occur in Calexico, 125 miles to the east, and elsewhere along the
border. But nowhere is there such a picturesque, well-tended area as this, close
to a major urban area, cooled by ocean breezes.

The California park is spotless, its picnic tables mostly empty. Except for
horseback riders, the beach draws few people because of strong currents and
sewage spills from Tijuana's wastewater treatment system.

On the Mexican side, the beach is crowded. The area, known as Playas de Tijuana,
bustles with a volleyball tournament and the rhythmic sounds of a mariachi band.

Mexican activists routinely demonstrate on the Tijuana side against U.S.
immigration policy, once posting the names of immigrants who have died crossing
the border since 1994. Today, the words "Alto a Guardian," or "Stop Gatekeeper,"
are emblazoned on the Mexican side.

LOAD-DATE: August 5, 2001

LANGUAGE: English

GRAPHIC: PHOTO; Photo by THE ASSOCIATED PRESS - Relatives meet at a fence at the
U.S.-Mexico border in Tijuana, Mexico, last month. In the foreground are Sofia
and Guillermo Ramirez of Ensenada, Mexico, and on the other side of the fence,
Linda and Tony Simiano of Los Angeles.

                  Copyright 2001 St. Louis Post-Dispatch, Inc.


                              187 of 275 DOCUMENTS

                       St. Louis Post-Dispatch (Missouri)

                  August 6, 2001 Monday Five Star Lift Edition

NEARLY 1 IN 5 SCHOOLCHILDREN SPEAKS LANGUAGE OTHER THAN ENGLISH AT HOME ;
 CENSUS FINDINGS BUILD ON DATA SHOWING A BOOM IN IMMIGRANT POPULATION

BYLINE: The Associated Press

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. A5

LENGTH: 287 words

DATELINE: WASHINGTON


Nearly one-fifth of America's school-age children speak a language other than
English at home, says a Census Bureau report. The study also says more than 13.3
million immigrants landed in the United States from 1990 to 2000.

The numbers reflect youngsters, age 5 to 17, who receive most of their formal
education in English but speak a second language with their families: about 9.8
million, or 18 percent of that group, compared with 14 percent in the 1990
census.

Close to seven in 10 of the children spoke Spanish at home, the 2000 survey
found, and two-thirds of that group rated themselves as speaking English very
well. Fluency declines as people get older, as 50 percent of those age 18 to 64
who spoke Spanish at home described themselves as speaking English very well.

In the 2000 survey, more than 30.5 million Americans were foreign born, about 11
percent of the country's household population of 273.4 million. More came from
Mexico than anywhere else. The survey did not offer estimates on the number of
undocumented immigrants in America.

Estimates from the wide-ranging nationwide survey being released today come as
lawmakers and advocacy groups debate how to shape policy on immigration and
bilingual education.

Results from the Census 2000 Supplementary Survey are in line with earlier
estimates of the foreign-born population.

Survey information was gathered separately from the 2000 census and provides
estimates of demographic trends expected to be reflected in additional census
data due out next year.

Much of the recent attention on the census from Congress and the White House has
focused on figures that showed the Hispanic population grew 58 percent over the
1990s to 35 million.

LOAD-DATE: August 8, 2001

LANGUAGE: English

TYPE: PROFILE; CENSUS 2000; SURVEY RESULTS; SIDEBAR STORY

                  Copyright 2001 St. Louis Post-Dispatch, Inc.


                              188 of 275 DOCUMENTS

                       St. Louis Post-Dispatch (Missouri)

                    August 26, 2001 Sunday Five Star Edition

POLICE STOP LOOK-ALIKES IN SEARCH FOR ACCUSED KILLER

BYLINE: The Associated Press

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. A7

LENGTH: 427 words

DATELINE: SACRAMENTO, CALIF.


Police are taking no chances in the national manhunt for the Ukrainian immigrant
wanted in the slayings of six relatives, stopping people on streets and
detaining airport passengers who look like the suspect.

Dozens of tips have been pouring in by the hour about the possible whereabouts
of Nikolay Soltys, 27, who has been on the run since Monday, when authorities
say he slashed the throats of his pregnant wife, aunt, uncle and two young
cousins.

He was later seen with his 3-year-old son, but the boy's slashed body later
turned up at a rural trash heap.

Law officers say the manhunt has been hampered by language, cultural barriers
and distrust. Sacramento County sheriff's deputies have fielded complaints from
several people stopped because they resemble him.

"Anybody who's going to have a few cocktails and drive over the weekend, don't
do it in a green Ford Explorer. They are all being stopped," said Sacramento
County Sheriff's Capt. John McGinness.

That was the last vehicle in which Soltys was seen. Police suspect he may have
owned it without registering it and may have access to other unregistered
vehicles.

Authorities at both Los Angeles International Airport and Dulles International
Airport near Washington have detained men until thumbprint checks confirmed they
weren't Soltys.

San Francisco police sent uniformed and undercover officers into Russian and
Ukrainian neighborhoods with wanted posters in English and Russian. Authorities
have made similar efforts in Seattle, Charlotte, N.C., and Binghamton, N.Y.,
areas where Soltys once lived or has relatives.

Russian- and Ukrainian-speaking officers borrowed from several agencies have
joined about 100 police searching Sacramento, which has as many as 75,000
Ukrainian and Russian immigrants.

Soltys now tops the FBI's Most Wanted list, and the reward for his capture has
grown to $70,000. Television's "America's Most Wanted" was to air the case
nationally Saturday night.

Due partly to his background, Soltys can't be tracked by some typical methods,
said acting Chief Deputy U.S. Marshal Tom Figmik. He has no known credit cards.
His checking account has little money and hasn't been touched.

Investigators are increasingly frustrated by what they call a slow pace of
cooperation from relatives and other members of the community, although
Ukrainians say they are cooperating fully.

"It goes to the level of trust, their trust of us and their loyalty to him,"
McGinness said. "What's perceived as loyalty may actually be more fear of him
than loyalty to him."

LOAD-DATE: August 26, 2001

LANGUAGE: English

GRAPHIC: PHOTO; Photo headshot - (Nikolay) Soltys; Suspected of killing six
relatives in California

                  Copyright 2001 St. Louis Post-Dispatch, Inc.


                              189 of 275 DOCUMENTS

                       St. Louis Post-Dispatch (Missouri)

                September 2, 2001 Sunday Five Star Lift Edition

IMMIGRATION ISSUE WILL DOMINATE FOX'S STATE VISIT;
 BUT HE AND BUSH DO NOT EXPECT AN AGREEMENT SOON

BYLINE: The Associated Press

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. A9

LENGTH: 487 words

DATELINE: WASHINGTON


It will be a state visit with all the trappings: an elaborate arrival ceremony
on the White House south lawn for the visiting foreign dignitary, a 21-gun
salute, a review of troops and, in the evening, a glittering state dinner.

And as is typical for such visits, substantive issues will be discussed. But
when President George W. Bush sits down with Mexico's President Vicente Fox on
Wednesday, the main item on the agenda - Mexican immigration - will have as much
to do with domestic policy as foreign affairs.

Bush acknowledged on Friday that the problem of 3 million Mexicans living
illegally in the United States is proving too complex to reach agreement in time
for the meeting.

Rather than the detailed immigration proposals Bush had hoped to announ ce this
week, the two presidents will outline only broad principles for change.

"Immigration is one that is a complex issue," Bush said. "President Fox knows
that the issue will require more than just the administration's involvement; it
requires a willing Congress to address the issue."

Bush and Fox both want to reform the current system to make it legal, safe and
humane. But if they are to get anywhere, they will have to deal with those such
as Rep. Tom Tancredo, R-Colo., chairman of the congression al immigration reform
caucus.

He says there is an "immigration crisis" in this country because of the
"massive" numbers who arrive on America's shores illegally. He believes they
should be deported and has introduced legislation to impose a five-year freeze
on immigration, exempting only close family members of U.S. citizens.

Tancredo's views may not be mainstream, but many others share his concerns about
current high migration levels - and the prospect that Bush wants to legalize
many of those who came here without documents.

Many in Congress and elsewhere - businesses, labor activists and civil rights
groups - agree with Bush and Fox that the current system is deeply flawed.
Administration officials say opinions on Capitol Hill are so diverse that
obtaining a majority will be a daunting task.

Fox is expected to have an attentive audience Thursday when he makes his case on
migration and other issues before a joint session of Congress.

Bush and Fox agreed in February to look at migration reform. Now, more than six
months later, little headway has been made on the details, and some believe a
concrete proposal won't be ready until late 2002.

Immigration will dominate the talks between Bush and Fox, but U.S. officials
said a host of other cross-border issues will be dealt with - drug trafficking,
truck safety, the environment, water and energy.

Cabinet officers from both countries and lower level officials meet at the State
Department on Tuesday.

When Fox and Bush meet the following day, they will have a modest goal on the
migration question: an agreement on basic principles that will govern future
deliberations.

LOAD-DATE: September 2, 2001

LANGUAGE: English

                  Copyright 2001 St. Louis Post-Dispatch, Inc.


                              190 of 275 DOCUMENTS

                       St. Louis Post-Dispatch (Missouri)

                September 4, 2001 Tuesday Five Star Lift Edition

NEWFOUND FRIENDS ASSIST CHINESE IMMIGRANTS AFTER DRUNKEN DRIVER TORE THEIR
FAMILY APART

BYLINE: Bill Smith Of The Post-Dispatch

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. A1

LENGTH: 1639 words


* Arriving here as a Washington University research scientist, Zhaofeng Cao was
realizing a dream. Now, two years after his death, his wife and son must decide
whether they want to stay or go back to China.

In the weeks after her husband's death, the envelope lay unopened inside Suchun
He's apartment in Clayton.

She can't remember how many times she picked it up and stared at it, reading and
rereading the hospital's return address in the upper left corner.

"Open it," her friends would tell her.

"No," she told them. She was afraid. She knew what was inside.

"I could not open," she said in soft, halting English. "I know my husband die,
but I not want to read that my husband die."

It took three months, she said, before she could summon the courage to tear
through the seal and pull out the brief, businesslike letter.

It was not a death certificate at all, but a simple notice asking her to pick up
her husband's personal belongings.

"The letter say hospital has husband's glasses, watch and passport," she said.
"They say OK if I get them.

"But when I come, they say 'too long of time,'" she said. "They say they throw
away.'"

Next month -- Oct. 2 -- will mark the second anniversary of her hu sband's
death. He was killed by a drunken driver when the man's van crossed the center
line and struck the couple's gray Mazda on a rainy Saturday afternoon near the
intersection of Hanley Road and Delmar Boulevard.

Suchun He, who had arrived in St. Louis from China just four months earlier to
be with her husband, was driving. Her husband, Zhaofeng Cao, 36, was in the
front passenger seat. It was just before 3 p.m. and they were heading toward a
Chinese grocery on Olive Boulevard to do some weekend shopping.

Their 8-year-old son, Qian Cao, was not in the car.

By the time Suchun He saw the yellow and red Chevy van, it was too late. It was
right on top of them. Both were wearing seat belts.

When she finally awoke three days later, Suchun He was lying in a hospital bed
with multiple fractures of her arms and legs and severe internal injuries. Her
husband was dead.

Months would pass before she would be able to walk again on her own. The long,
red scars still snake across her arms and legs.

Even now, Suchun He, 38, says she can scarcely believe what the past two years
have brought.

"I miss my husband," she says. "He is very very young. His whole life, he work
hard, study, study, study, not take a rest.

"If my husband had not come here, we would still have a happy family."

She is sad, but she is sometimes angry, too. "In China, nobody drinks and
drives. Everyone is afraid of government. You kill somebody in China, you are in
big trouble."

When Cao was granted a visa to come to the United States as a research scientist
in 1998, it was the realization of a nearly impossible dream.

Born into a family of poor peasants in China's Hunan Province, he faced
overwhelming odds even to attend a Chinese university.

St. Louis immigration attorney James Z. Liang said that Cao came "a very long
way" from his humble beginnings.

"He had to be very very smart or work very very hard," Liang said.

"You can't imagine the hardships of a peasant in a Chinese village in the
1980s."

Ultimately, he received a master's degree from Beijing University and a
doctorate from Hunan University Medical School, where he worked as a teacher and
researcher in the field of neurophysiology.

In May 1998, he came to Washington University Medical School as a resear ch
scientist under a two-year visa.

His family joined him a year later.

He was a model employee, says his supervisor and friend, Mark Wardell.

"He was a delight," Wardell said. "He was a mainstay at the lab. He was a person
with a very positive and very optimistic attitude at work, and he was an
extraordinary family man."

An exciting time

Cao's hope, his wife says, was to introduce his son to America and the American
school system. He told the boy that one day he wanted him to return to the
United States to attend college.

It was an exciting time for their family, Suchun He said. She was awed by
American grocery stores and shopping malls and amazed at the cleanliness. They
met friends in the local Chinese community and at the university.

Their son enrolled at Clayton's Glenridge Elementary School, where he excelled
in academics.

The family traveled to Chicago with a local church group. Slowly, Suchun He
began to pick up bits of English.

She was homesick for China, but her family was together.

On the day of the accident, Suchun He and her husband had been to the Soulard
Farmers Market and to the Kmart and Sam's stores on Manchester Road in the city.
It was a typically American Saturday.

Suchun He said she saw the van cross the center line. She remembers trying to
step on the brake. Then, she says, she remembers nothing.

"I open my eyes and I ask if my husband OK."

Recalling the incident, she reached for a roll of toilet tissue, pulled off a
piece and wiped it over her eyes.

She still has her husband's medical books, his neckties, an extra pair of
eyeglasses and his briefcase.

"He was a very nice man," she said. "He always gave people help."

The accident merited only a few short paragraphs on the inside of the
Post-Dispatch, but both the Chinese and St. Louis communities quickly embraced
Suchun He and her son.

Members of a local Buddhist group, the Buddhist Tzu Chi Foundation, offered
their help, showing up at Barnes-Jewish Hospital shortly after the accident and
raising money for the family. Wardell and Washington University began the
delicate, painstaking process of trying to get emergency visas for family
members to come from China to help with Suchun He's recovery and rehabilitation.

Clayton schools started fund drives that raised more than $4,000. The Chinese
community raised another $12,000.

"She asked for nothing," Wardell said. "It just appeared."

In recent months, area residents who did not know Suchun He before the accident
have come forward.

Several have bought her household items, given clothing to her and her son and
offered her rides to doctors' appointments.

One, Amy Koman of Clayton, was so taken with the family's story that she opened
her family's carriage house to them rent free.

"I am lucky," Suchun He said. "God saw me and sent good people to me. Sometimes
I tell God, 'Thanks, God.' "

Seeking legal status

Since her husband's death two years ago, Suchun He and her son have been living
illegally in the United States. Their temporary visa expired the moment that Cao
was killed on the rain-slickened University City roadway.

But, immigration attorney Liang says, the U.S. Immigration and Naturalization
Service is "very sympathetic" to the family and thus far, at least, has not
tried to deport them.

Until recently, the St. Louis County prosecuting attorney's office and a lawyer
in a civil case against the drunken driver of the van convinced immigration
officials that it was important that the family remain in the United States
until the cases were settled.

Now that those cases are complete, Liang is working to keep Suchun He and Qian
in the United States, citing Suchun He's need for continuing medical care here.
She remains in pain.

Liang also hopes to get her a permit that would allow her to work legally in the
United States.

By legalizing their stay here, Liang says, it may be easier for Qian to one day
return to the United States to attend college.

The driver of the van that struck the couple's car, Jackie L. Rusan of Weston
Place in Richmond Heights, was sentenced to three years in prison for
involuntary manslaughter earlier this year, a punishment that Suchun He believes
is much too lenient for tearing her family apart. She has collected $33,000 from
a settlement with Rusan's insurance carrier - $16,500 for her husband's death
and $16,500 for her injuries - the maximum allowed under Rusan's minimal
coverage.

The money is in a bank account, she says. She will not touch it.

"This is not my money," she said. "It is my husband's money and Qian's money,
money for Qian's education."

She spends almost nothing on herself. She wears a pair of tennis shoes that were
hand-me-downs to her son and that he has now outgrown.

She will not ask for rides and prefers to walk "so I will not bother anyone."
Still, she remains dependent on others to help her do banking and to translate
for her when she sees her doctors.

If it was up to her, Suchun He said, she probably would go back to China. While
her English is improving, it remains difficult to communicate.

She misses her family.

But if they go back, especially as illegal immigrants, she worries that it could
jeopardize Qian's chance to return to America.

And she will do nothing to risk that chance. After all, it was her husband's
dream.

"He studies hard; he works hard," she said of her son. "Just like his dad."

Qian spends his free time working on his father's computer, practicing his
violin and reading, especially science fiction. The two often will walk to a
local bookstore on Sundays and spend the day there, reading together.

Qian says he will be happy to remain in the United States, but he would be just
as happy to go back to China.

He loved his father very much, he said. He remembers how he taught him to
roller-skate and how his father would sometimes let him win when they played
chess.

He loves his mother, too.

"He is a good boy," his mother said. "I hope he can grow up very good.

"I will do my best," she said. "I will work harder. I will work harder so Qian
can grow up and do good things for everybody.

"Like his father."

Friends have opened a college fund for Qian Cao at the Bank of America, Account
No. 003476785516. Contributions should be marked "For Deposit only for the
benefit of Qian Cao."

LOAD-DATE: September 4, 2001

LANGUAGE: English

NOTES: Reporter Bill Smith:; E-mail: billsmith@post-dispatch.com; Phone:
314-340-8125

GRAPHIC: PHOTO; (1) Color PHOTO by J.B. FORBES/POST-DISPATCH - Suchen He listens
as her son, Qian Cao, 10, practices the violin last week in their apartment in
Clayton. "He studies hard; he works hard," Suchen He said of her son. "Just like
his dad." She said she misses her family in China but worries that if they go
back, it could jeopardize Qian's chance to return to America.; (2) Color Photo
by J.B. FORBES/POST-DISPATCH - Qian Cao, 10, works on his Chinese math with his
mother, Suchun He, at their apartment in Clayton. Suchun He says that Chinese
math is more advanced than what Qian is learning here, and that he needs to keep
up with his studies so he won't be behind if the two go back to China.

TYPE: PROFILE; ZHAOFENG CAO; SUCHEN HE; QIAN CAO

                  Copyright 2001 St. Louis Post-Dispatch, Inc.


                              191 of 275 DOCUMENTS

                       St. Louis Post-Dispatch (Missouri)

                September 10, 2001 Monday Five Star Lift Edition

MALE POPULATION IS CLOSING IN ON FEMALE POPULATION, CENSUS SHOWS ;
 ANALYSTS CREDIT FALLING DEATH RATES, IMMIGRATION

BYLINE: The Associated Press

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. A8

LENGTH: 256 words

DATELINE: WASHINGTON


The gap between the number of men and women in the United States narrowed during
the 1990s as immigration and falling death rates helped increase the male
population, the 2000 census shows.

There were 138.1 million men in 2000, a 14 percent increase from 1990, according
to a Census Bureau report released today. Women numbered 143.4 million, a 13
percent increase from 1990.

That works out to 96.3 men for every 100 women in 2000. The gap has been closing
steadily since 1980, when the male-female ratio was 94.5 to 100.

Death rates for men are declining at a faster pace than for women, said Renee
Spraggins, a bureau analyst. People are living longer thanks to healthier
lifestyles and medical technology.

Immigration also has brought more men into the country, Spraggins said.
Historically, male immigrants tend to settle into a home and job first before
the rest of the family arrives.

Demographers have said the Hispanic population, which increased 58 percent
during the decade to 35.3 million, increased at a faster-than-expected rate
because of immigration.

The male-female ratio for Hispanics in 2000 was 105.9 to 100. By comparison, the
ratio for Americans who chose only non-Hispanic white as their race was 95.7 to
100.

Other highlights included:

* By state, Alaska had the highest male-female ratio, with 107 men for every 100
women. Rhode Island had the lowest, 92.5 to 100.

* For cities of 100,000 or more, Salinas, Calif., had the highest ratio, 113.7
to 100; Gary, Ind., had the lowest, 84.6 to 100.

LOAD-DATE: September 10, 2001

LANGUAGE: English

                  Copyright 2001 St. Louis Post-Dispatch, Inc.


                              192 of 275 DOCUMENTS

                       St. Louis Post-Dispatch (Missouri)

               September 13, 2001 Thursday Five Star Lift Edition

TOUGHER SEARCHES SLOW CROSSINGS OF U.S.-CANADIAN BORDER ;
 OFFICIALS ARE INVESTIGATING WHETHER HIJACKERS ENTERED FROM CANADA

BYLINE: The Associated Press

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. A7

LENGTH: 643 words

DATELINE: LACOLLE, QUEBEC


Long lines and stringent searches slowed traffic along the U.S.-Canadian border
Wednesday, but vehicles moved in both directions a day after the worst terrorist
attack in U.S. history.

Officials warned that the world's longest undefended border would be more
tightly patrolled and that travelers should expect to wait for hours. At some
crossings, lines of vehicles stretched for miles. At others, traffic moved with
minimal delays.

After a U.S. request for stepped-up border security, meantime, authorities in
Tijuana. Mexico, said Wednesday that they had rounded up 48 migrants from Iraq
and elsewhere in the Middle East.

U.S. officials said Wednesday that they were investigating whether a group of
hijackers had crossed the Canadian border at a checkpoint and made their way to
Boston, where two flights, one each on American and United airlines, were
hijacked and flown into the World Trade Center.

Prime Minister Jean Chretien said that Canadian security forces had no
information about that.

The allegation raised concerns that liberal immigration and refugee policies in
Canada enable terror groups to organize north of the border and infiltrate the
United States.

U.S. Ambassador Paul Cellucci said the United States and Canada must work
together to coordinate immigration policies and improve intelligence and
security networks.

"We want to stop them before they get to the border, and that requires resources
for intelligence and law enforcement," he said.

Osama bin Laden, the Afghanistan-based Islamic militant, is considered the most
likely figure behind a string of attacks against U.S. targets. Two former
Montreal residents with alleged links to the Saudi exile have been convicted on
U.S. terrorism charges.

Hundreds of thousands of people cross the U.S.-Canada border daily, reflecting
the close ties between North American allies who share the world's largest trade
relationships -- worth more than $1 billion a day.

While air travel across the border remained suspended, road traffic proceeded
under tighter security Wednesday.

Mike McMullen, the U.S. chief inspector, described Wednesday's traffic as normal
and said searches had caused some delays.

Dawneen MacKenzie, a spokeswoman for Livingston International Inc., which
facilitates trade between the United States and Canada, said major slowdowns had
occurred along the border.

Trucks were waiting 12 hours at the Niagara Falls border point, and the line was
15 miles long in Sarnia, Ontario, she said. At the crossing from British
Columbia into Blaine, Wash., the wait was six hours or more, she said.

Most of those detained in Tijuana appeared to be Iraqi Chaldean Christians, a
Catholic group that frequently seeks U.S. asylum because of alleged persecution
in their home country.

Security remained tight all along the 2,100-mile U.S.-Mexican border after
Tuesday's terrorist attacks as U.S. inspectors checked every suspicious bag and
searched all cars and trucks, instead of the usual random checks.

The San Ysidro port of entry east of San Diego was closed for 11/2 hours Tuesday
after officials there received a bomb threat.

In Ciudad Juarez, across from El Paso, Texas, many people who normally cross
daily into the United States stayed away or walked across the border bridges to
avoid long traffic delays.

Those who did brave the journey faced an hours-long wait to get across, but most
were patient and understanding of America's need for increased security.

On Tuesday, Mexican immigration agents received an anonymous phone tip that the
Iraqis were staying in a shabby border hotel waiting to cross into U.S.
territory.

That and other searches Wednesday turned up 41 Iraqis, two Israelis, three
Jordanians and two Armenians. Zarate said that all lacked proper immigration
documents and that it was unclear how they had entered Mexico.

LOAD-DATE: September 13, 2001

LANGUAGE: English

NOTES: AMERICA UNDER ATTACK: PURSUING THE ATTACKERS

GRAPHIC: PHOTO; Photo by MORRIS LAMONT / THE ASSOCIATED PRESS - U.S.-bound
trucks are lined up about 17 miles from Michigan in Reeces Corners, Ontario, on
Wednesday as heightened security checks at border crossings slowed traffic in
and out of the United States.

TYPE: PROFILE; TERRORIST ATTACK ON THE U.S.; WORLD TRADE CENTER; PENTAGON;
SIDEBAR STORY

                  Copyright 2001 St. Louis Post-Dispatch, Inc.


                              193 of 275 DOCUMENTS

                       St. Louis Post-Dispatch (Missouri)

              September 19, 2001 Wednesday Five Star Lift Edition

3 ARE CHARGED IN DETROIT; FBI DETAINS 75 IN HIJACKING CASE ;
 4 OTHERS ARE UNDER ARREST AS MATERIAL WITNESSES IN THE CASE

BYLINE: Karen Gullo The Associated Press

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. A7

LENGTH: 987 words

DATELINE: WASHINGTON


Attorney General John Ashcroft has expanded the investigation of last week's
twin terrorist attacks to draw on the resources of every U.S. attorney in the
country.

In addition, authorities in Michigan filed the first charges in the case after
finding three men in Detroit with what officials said were false immigration
papers and airport diagrams.

FBI agents raided a residence in Detroit looking for one of the nearly 200
witnesses being sought in the investigation. Instead, they found the three men
and a cache of documents. The three were charged with having false immigration
papers.

The investigation has detained 75 people for questioning and has four people
under arrest as material witnesses, law enforcement officials said Tuesday.

The government also announced a new policy that gives immigration authorities 48
hours -- or longer in emergencies -- to decide whether to charge an alien with
status violations. Authorities must now act within 24 hours.

Many of those questioned in the Sept. 11 attack were being detained on
immigration violations.

Ashcroft said he would use "every legal means at our disposal to prevent further
terrorist activity by taking people into custody who have violated the law and
who may pose a threat to America."

He said publicly for the first time that authorities are checking whether more
flights beyond the four that crashed last Tuesday were targeted for hijackings
but noted the possibility had not yet been corroborated.

The restructuring of the investigation includes the creation of anti-terrorism
task forces by every U.S. attorney office in the country.

"These task forces will be a part of a national network that will coordinate the
dissemination of information and the development of a strategy to disrupt,
dismantle and punish terrorist organizations throughout the country," he said.

The government searched for more than 190 people who investigators believe may
have information about the attack or who may have assisted the hijackers.

The effort was being aided by a grand jury in White Plains, N.Y. Officials said
other grand juries would likely be used around the country to issue subpoenas
and gather evidence.

The three Detroit men were arrested on charges of identity fraud and misuse of
visas.

During a search of the men's residence, FBI agents found a day planner
containing notations on the "American base in Turkey," the "American foreign
minister" and "Alia Airport," Jordan, according to an FBI affidavit filed in the
case.

"The day planner also contained handwritten sketches of what appeared to be a
diagram of an airport flight line, to include aircraft and runways," the
affidavit said.

Court records said the FBI seized documents suggesting the men helped prepare
food for planes at Detroit Metropolitan Airport and collected information about
an American military base in Turkey, a U.S. foreign minister, an airport in
Jordan and diagrams of aircraft location and runways. The affidavit did not
explain the reference to "U.S. foreign minister."

Federal documents identified the men as Karim Koubriti, 23; Ahmed Hannan, 33;
and Farouk Ali-Haimoud, 21.

Among the four material witnesses under arrest is Albader Alhazmi, 34, a Saudi
national and Saudi-trained doctor who was doing a medical residency in radiology
at University of Texas Health Science Center, a law enforcement official said.
He was being held in New York.

Alhazmi did not show up for his job on Sept. 11. He had been working at a
military hospital at Lackland Air Force Base in San Antonio during the week
before the attacks, said an official at the medical center.

Medical Center president Francisco Cigarroa said the FBI seized a computer from
the center's main library and copied information from files in the radiology
department.

Investigators also remained interested in the first man who was arrested last
week on a material witness warrant, the officials said.

The man, of Middle Eastern descent, has not been identified. He had been stopped
by police at John F. Kennedy International Airport in New York with a fake
pilot's license. None of the 75 taken into custody for immigration violations
has been charged in connection with the hijackings, a Justice Department
official said.

Oklahoma link

Meanwhile, evidence emerged Tuesday that the FBI had tracked the activities of
one Arab man who was seeking jetliner training from Minnesota to Oklahoma in the
weeks before the Sept. 11 attacks.

The FBI came by the Airman Flight School in Norman, Okla., about two weeks
before the terrorist attacks, inquiring about Zacarias Moussaoui, who is now in
custody in New York in the investigation.

The FBI had a picture of Moussaoui and asked if people at the school could
identify him, said admissions director Brenda Keene. They asked about his
mannerisms and what he did at the school, she said.

Moussaoui was detained Aug. 17 in Minnesota on immigration issues after he
aroused suspicions by seeking to buy time on a flight simulator for jet liners
at a Minnesota flight school, law enforcement officials said.

In other developments:

* The FBI has asked U.S. banks and foreign banks with U.S. operations to report
transactions in their records by individuals who have been named as under
investigation in connection with the attacks.

* FBI cybercrime specialists have tracked down hundreds of e-mails from the
hijackers and their associates, who used both public and private e-mail systems
to communicate, an FBI official said, speaking on condition of anonymity.

* Agents sought five men whose names are included in a list of nearly 200 people
wanted for questioning about the attacks. The men have all booked tickets on a
flight this Saturday from San Antonio to Denver and then from Denver to San
Diego, The Miami Herald reported. The paper said investigators are concerned the
men may be part of a plan for additional hijackings.

LOAD-DATE: September 19, 2001

LANGUAGE: English

NOTES: AMERICA RESPONDS

GRAPHIC: PHOTO; Photo from AGENCE-FRANCE PRESSE - Workers at the site of the
World Trade Center terrorist attack pass a container reserved for aircraft parts
Tuesday. The poster at right shows searchers what the flight recorders of the
two airliners that slammed into the twin towers would look like.

TYPE: PROFILE; TERRORIST ATTACK; WORLD TRADE CENTER; PENTAGON; AMERICA RESPONDS;
SIDEBAR STORY

                  Copyright 2001 St. Louis Post-Dispatch, Inc.


                              194 of 275 DOCUMENTS

                       St. Louis Post-Dispatch (Missouri)

               September 23, 2001 Sunday Early Five Star Edition

IMMIGRANTS DECLINE TO CHANGE APPEARANCE, DESPITE HARASSMENT

BYLINE: The Associated Press

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. A12

LENGTH: 380 words

DATELINE: NEW YORK


Layla El-Wafi decided to keep wearing the headscarf used by Muslim women despite
the "dirty remarks and dirty looks" from strangers.

She also wears an American flag pin - partly to show solidarity, but partly as a
defensive measure: In the new war on terrorism, this city of immigrants has
become a place where some fear losing the very thing many came here for.

"I don't want to feel that I can't have the kind of freedom of expression we
guarantee to everyone," said El-Wafi, whose family begged her to modify her
appearance.

" I'm proud to be an American," she said. "I hate to feel that people are
counting me as 'the other."

Across the country, reports of bias incidents against people who appear to be
Middle Eastern have risen since the Sept. 11 terrorist attacks, despite appeals
for tolerance from President Bush and other top U.S. officials.

Mayor Rudolph Giuliani has made similar pleas in New York, where as much as
one-third of the population is foreign-born. Police reports of bias incidents
since the attacks number in the dozens - from anti-Muslim graffiti to a
baseball-bat assault on a turban-wearing Sikh.

The backlash is mild compared to two killings, in Texas and Arizona, that may
have been motivated by anti-Arab sentiment. But Sikhs, Muslims, and other
immigrants say they are greatly affected by increasing petty harassment in a
city that prides itself on tolerance.

"My business is down 60 to 70 percent," said Izmar Yalai, who runs the
Afghanistan Kebab House in Manhattan. "They stand outside and look. And then
they just walk away. I know they have anger and resentment. But we are as much
American as any of them!

Amrik Singh Chawla, a financial consultant who is Sikh, was headed to the Trade
Center to catch a train when he saw the second hijacked plane hit the building.
Chawla ran for his life, dodging debris falling from the sky.

Amid the chaos, two men chased him, calling him a terrorist and demanding that
he remove his turban. He got away, but said he has been harassed on other days
as well.

Chawla, who was born in India but has lived here since, has decided to keep
wearing his turban. To abandon his identity out of fear, he said, would be to
capitulate to the terrorists and renounce the freedoms America stands for.

LOAD-DATE: September 24, 2001

LANGUAGE: English

NOTES: AMERICA RESPONDS

                  Copyright 2001 St. Louis Post-Dispatch, Inc.


                              195 of 275 DOCUMENTS

                       St. Louis Post-Dispatch (Missouri)

                  September 23, 2001 Sunday Three Star Edition

U.S. GIVES DETAILS ON ARRESTED MIDDLE EASTERNERS

BYLINE: Washington Post

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. A8

LENGTH: 335 words


The Justice Department provided on Friday the first glimpse of 80 foreign
nationals it has rounded up in connection with the Sept. 11 terrorist strikes,
releasing documents that show they include numerous Middle Easterners who
arrived on visitors' visas as well as two Pakistanis who sneaked over the
Mexican border shortly before the attack.

Authorities provided the nationalities and alleged infractions of 33 of the 80
people who are being held on immigration charges but withheld their names for
privacy reasons. In addition, U.S. authorities have arrested at least six people
as material witnesses in the case.

A U.S. official said some of the people in the group may eventually be found to
have no relation to the airplane attacks.

But "there's a belief we have some very probable terrorists in the group," said
the official, speaking on the condition of anonymity.

The 33 people whose immigration violations were detailed Friday included six
Jordanians and six Egyptians, as well as citizens of Israel, Iran, India, Saudi
Arabia and other countries. Most entered the United States legally on temporary
visas for work or tourism and stayed longer than they were allowed, according to
the documents.

But the list included some unusual cases too: a pair of Pakistanis who sneaked
across the Mexican border near Brownsville, Texas, on Aug. 24, less than three
weeks before the terrorist attack; two Egyptians who crossed the border
illegally near Laredo, Texas, on Sept. 14, three days after the attack; and a
Syrian who crossed the Canadian border without a visa on Sept. 8.

The FBI has drawn up a list of more than 240 people sought for questioning in
the hijackings of the four jets that crashed into the World Trade Center, the
Pentagon and a field in Pennsylvania. It was unclear how many of the 80 detained
on immigration infractions are part of that list.

Meanwhile, the FBI's investigation has extended to U.S. military installations,
private flight academies, and driving schools.

LOAD-DATE: September 24, 2001

LANGUAGE: English

NOTES: AMERICA RESPONDS

                  Copyright 2001 St. Louis Post-Dispatch, Inc.


                              196 of 275 DOCUMENTS

                       St. Louis Post-Dispatch (Missouri)

              September 26, 2001 Wednesday Five Star Lift Edition

...AND (WE MUST) PROTECT OUR CONSTITUTIONAL RIGHTS

BYLINE: Angie O'Gorman

SECTION: EDITORIAL; Commentary Column; Pg. B7

LENGTH: 629 words


AMERICA'S WAR ON TERRORISM - IMMIGRATION

At times such as these, the wise know we must protect ourselves from our own
excesses as well as from the extremism of others. And it is precisely for times
such as these that the Constitution enshrined a system of due process, including
court procedures, where guilt and innocence are adjudicated by parties other
than law enforcement agencies.

Attorney General John Ashcroft has proposed the removal of legal protections and
due process rights from immigrants. Whether a visitor or a lawful permanent
resident, a foreign-born person who is "certified" through the justice
department as someone who might engage at some level in acts of terrorism, could
be detained indefinitely by the Immigration and Naturalization Service and
deported. No court proceedings are required, no conviction, no opportunity for
all sides to examine the evidence. As a matter of fact, no evidence need be
provided. Suspicion would be sufficient.

In the aftermath of the 1993 bombing of the World Trade Center, Congress passed
the 1996 Anti-Terrorism and Effective Death Penalty Act, which allows the use of
"secret evidence" in cases where immigrants are suspected of terrorist
activities. Neither the accused nor their attorneys are allowed to inspect the
evidence, and judicial review of the resulting deportation is not allowed.
Subsequently, courts repeatedly struck down the use of secret evidence. Ashcroft
would remove the even more basic due process requirement of producing evidence
to the court, let alone the accused.

The Mobilization Against Terrorism Act, introduced into the House this week,
mirrors some of Ashcroft's proposals and modified others. But the legislation
keeps the concept of deportation-by-suspicion and applies a definition of
terrorism that includes, "any activity, a purpose of which is the opposition to
. . . the government of the United States by . . . other than lawful means." By
this definition, nonviolent civil disobedience becomes terrorism.

Systems without checks and balances become abusive. That is why we have the
Constitution. Ashcroft and the sponsors of the terrorism act are asking that
such checks and balances be removed at a time when they are most needed.

Lawful permanent residents are our immigrant neighbors, our mothers and fathers,
our children, our parents. Thousands of Missouri families have lawful permanent
resident members. Have we come to the point where the knock on the door at
night, the removal of family members from the home, the lack of access to
evidence and finally deportation can result from suspicion alone? And let there
be no doubt, a person deported due to suspicion of terrorist activities will
never be allowed to re-enter the United States. The separation from family will
be permanent.

And what of the family members left behind? What shadow will such suspicions
cast over their future? What neighborly whisperings will turn life into terror
for them?

Suspicion has already resulted in immigrant deaths around the country. Locally,
men claiming to be FBI agents have come knocking on the doors of Afghan
refugees. Flashing badges no one could read. Asking questions no one could
understand.

One refugee woman was stopped by police on a St. Louis City street and asked her
nationality. One Sudanese applicant for an airport job was detai ned by airport
security. Women wearing foreign dress have been stopped and threatened on our
streets, veils ripped from their heads. This is the atmosphere that
judgment-by-suspicion generates. Unchecked, suspicion will become terrorism too.

The greatest danger in our efforts against terrorism is the threat of becoming
terrorists ourselves. If we succumb, the perpetrators of the Sept. 11 attacks
will have won.

LOAD-DATE: September 26, 2001

LANGUAGE: English

NOTES: AMERICA'S WAR ON TERRORISM; Angie O'Gorman, St. Louis, provides legal
assistance to immigrants and refugees. She is currently working to link persons
trained in nonviolent defense with foreign-born persons fearing attack.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO; AFP Photo - Attorney General John Ashcroft testified Monday
before the House Judiciary Committee about legislative proposals to combat
terrorism.

TYPE: PROFILE; TERRORIST ATTACK ON THE U.S.; AMERICA RESPONDS; IMMIGRATION

                  Copyright 2001 St. Louis Post-Dispatch, Inc.


                              197 of 275 DOCUMENTS

                       St. Louis Post-Dispatch (Missouri)

                 September 27, 2001 Thursday Three Star Edition

FOREIGN VISITORS CAN EXPECT HEIGHTENED SCRUTINY;
 FOCUS WILL PROBABLY SHIFT FROM CRIMINAL DEPORTATION TO VISA VIOLATIONS

BYLINE: Karen Branch-Brioso Post-Dispatch Washington Bureau

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. A1

LENGTH: 1437 words

DATELINE: WASHINGTON


CRACKDOWN ON VISAS

Opposition to strict tracking of foreign visitors to the United States is giving
way since the Sept. 11 terrorist attacks in New York and Washington.

The most immediate reaction will likely be computerized tracking of foreign
students at U.S. schools and efforts to keep tabs on all non-citizens here, even
when they leave the country. Congress passed laws to do both five years ago. But
enforcement of the laws has been delayed by intensive lobbying efforts from
educators and border business interests.

"It's fair to say that Sept. 11 pretty much ended the debate," said Doris
Meissner, former Immigration and Naturalization Service commissioner.

The proof is in a Sept. 20 statement from the Association of International
Educators, the most vocal opponent of requiring foreign students to report their
whereabouts and study plans while in the United States: "The time for debate on
this matter is over, and the time to devise a considered response to terrorism
has arrived."

Victor Johnson, the group's policy director, said the association still strongly
believes it's wrong to single out foreign students -- who represent 567,000 of
the more than 30 million visitors to the United States each year: "But the
chances of successfully opposing the implementation are zero now."

Immigration experts believe that new fears of foreign terrorist threats will
prompt stricter controls in the United States, where past policies have focused
more on scrutiny of visitors who enter and far less on when they leave and their
whereabouts while they're here. Crackdowns rarely occur unless foreign visitors
commit crimes. Visa violations, however, have gone largely ignored.

"The tendency was to ignore interior enforcement and focus instead on
deportation of criminal aliens," said Susan Forbes Martin, director of
Georgetown University's Institute for the Study of International Migration.
"There was a tendency to ignore those who were overstaying their visas for work
purposes. The same loopholes that exist in U.S. immigration policy are the
loopholes that terrorists can easily walk through."

Sen. Christopher "Kit" Bond, R-Mo., is among those members of Congress who
believe it's time for stricter enforcement. He'll launch a statewide tour of
immigration offices today to seek input for a bill he plans to file next week
that would require:

* A 30-day waiting period for all visa applicants to ensure that U.S. consular
officers abroad have time for proper background checks.

* New high-tech visas with bar codes to identify the bearer by either a
fingerprint or facial screening.

* Full funding for the computerized entry-and-exit visa system to track those
who overstay their visas.

Citing that "several" of the suspected Sept. 11 hijackers had overstayed student
or tourist visas, Bond said it is "intolerable" that "right now we have no
ability to identify, locate or remove foreigners who deliberately remain in this
country long after their tourist or student visas expire."

The entry-and-exit system he wants to fund is one that Congress put in place in
1996 as part of a larger crackdown on illegal immigration. That system has been
implemented, in part, by a handful of airports that send computerized lists of
passengers to immigration officials. But border business interests that depend
on efficient movement of people and goods through land checkpoints were
successful at delaying the plan.

As the law stands now, it won't be fully in effect until the end of 2005.

But the events of Sept. 11 are expected to speed that transition.

"It was going to be phased in over a number of years, but I think the events of
the last couple weeks have superseded that, and there will be an effort to
implement (it) sooner," said Rep. Lamar Smith, R-Texas, a longtime champion of
the system. "It means, inevitably, we won't be in a position of waving strangers
across the border without stopping them."

Miguel Conchas, president of the Laredo Chamber of Commerce, said the crackdown
has already started at the city's four border crossings with Mexi co. Since
Sept. 11, U.S. immigration officials have been taking more time to screen
traffic - and once minutes-long waits have stretched to hours.

"If you're going to delay everybody crossing even by one minute, that,
multiplied by thousands, is a nightmare, and usually our businesses would be
screaming bloody murder," Conchas said.

But he says he has heard few complaints about the bottlenecks. "Right now, we
support anything the country can do to create security and safety for everyone,"
he said.

Conchas said opposition has given way to inevitability. The chamber, he said,
will instead focus its lobbying efforts on getting faster visa technology to
avoid congestion at the border crossings.

Gene McNary, the St. Louis lawyer who served as chief of the Immigration and
Naturalization Service from 1988 to 1993, believes that past political obstacles
to the changes have indeed given way in light of recent events.

"Border control has never been an essential function of the federal government.
We didn't want to ruffle the feathers of the Mexicans. The State Department was
so determined to exercise diplomacy," McNary said. "The time has come to say
diplomacy be damned."

He expects a strengthening of State Department rules on issuing visas and
much-improved technology and budgets for screening applicants. Until now, McNary
said, the main role for visa officers has been to check that the applicants have
sufficient ties and finances in their home country to ensure that they would
return after visiting the United States.

"Well, most terrorists are well-off, and they're going to be able to show that
stuff and, if not, they'll come up with phony documents," McNary said. "I think
the time has come to use the technology to make sure we're secure."

Sen. Edward Kennedy, D-Mass., who chairs the Senate committee overseeing
immigration, has introduced a bill to give consular agents access to FBI
criminal databases for their background checks of visa applicants.

Meissner, the INS director during President Bill Clinton's administration,
believes that the most effective anti-terrorist measures should be in screening
visa applicants - not foreign visitors already on U.S. soil. She noted that the
State Department assigns "the most junior officers" to screen applicants.

Consular officials already compare visa applicants' names and dates of birth
with a database of "millions of names of people refused visas, deportees,
criminals, drug suspects, human rights violators and suspected terrorists,"
Meissner said. "As sound and as good as these screening devices have been,
they're only as good as the names in the system. That brings us to intelligence.
The immigration issues are critical - but they are by no means adequate as being
a frontline response to terrorism."

Johnson, of the Association of International Educators, believes that
immigration approaches - like tracking the whereabouts of foreign students - are
a questionable solution.

"I don't care what kind of monitoring and tracking system you set up for foreign
students, as long as it's the case that 99 percent of the people who come here
on temporary visas come on visas other than student visas, you have accomplished
nothing as far as anti-terrorism," he said. "If you just apply it to one group
of people, that's not a serious anti-terrorism strategy, that's just for show."

But since one suspected hijacker was in the United States on a student visa -
and never showed up at the school - educators see the tracking system as
inevitable. That's the case for David Currey, director of International Student
and Scholar Services at the University of Missouri at Columbia, which has about
1,300 international students.

===

Immigration laws

Immigration laws passed by Congress in 1996 have yet to be put into effect.

One law would collect the following information on foreign students:

* Identity and current U.S. address.

* Date student visa was issued.

* Academic status (e.g., full-time or exchange).

* Disciplinary action taken by the educational institution against the student.

Another would require the government to establish a computerized system to track
a foreign visitor's date of arrival and date of departure. The deadlines for
putting the program in place have been extended to:

* Dec. 31, 2003, for airports and seaports.

* Dec. 31, 2004, for the 50 land border ports of entry serving the highest
numbers of arriving and departing aliens.

* Dec. 31, 2005, for all ports of entry into the United States.

LOAD-DATE: September 27, 2001

LANGUAGE: English

NOTES: AMERICA RESPONDS

                  Copyright 2001 St. Louis Post-Dispatch, Inc.


                              198 of 275 DOCUMENTS

                       St. Louis Post-Dispatch (Missouri)

                September 28, 2001 Friday Five Star Lift Edition

BOND WANTS TOUGHER RULES FOR STUDENT, WORK VISAS

BYLINE: William C. Lhotka Of The Post-Dispatch

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. A5

LENGTH: 321 words


Under get-tough immigration proposals made Thursday by Sen. Christopher "Kit"
Bond, schools would have to tell federal officials if students with visas fail
to show up to attend classes.

And employers would have 14 days to report terminations of people with work
visas.

Those are part of a package Bond plans to submit to Congress next week. He
discussed his ideas Thursday with Immigration and Naturalization Service
officials in St. Louis, Kansas City and Springfield, Mo.

Also proposed by Bond, R-Mo., is a measure to require a 30-day waiting period in
foreign countries for all visa applicants, to provide time for deeper background
checks. New high-tech visa cards would carry photographs and thumbprints.

One of the suspected hijackers in the terrorist attacks Sept. 11 had entered the
country on a student visa but never went to class.

Bond's proposal would require educational institutions, including flight
schools, to inform the INS within 30 days if a student visa holder fails to
appear within two weeks of enrollment.

Chester Moyer, the officer in charge of the INS for eastern Missouri and
southern Illinois, said foreign students now must report the name of the school
where they enroll and changes of schools, which means they could be out of
contact for years.

Victor Johnson, policy director of the Association of International Educators,
complained this week that it would be wrong to single out 567,000 foreign
students from among 30 million visitors to the United States each year.

St. Louis University spokesman Jeff Fowler said about half the 90 foreign
students accepted there in an average year go elsewhere without telling the
school.

No one was available to comment for Washington University, which also has a
significant international enrollment.

Until 1986, a law required foreign workers to check in with the INS annually. It
was often ignored and rarely enforced, Moyer said.

LOAD-DATE: September 28, 2001

LANGUAGE: English

NOTES: AMERICA RESPONDS; Reporter William C. Lhotka:; E-mail:
blhotka@post-dispatch.com; Phone: 314-615-3283

                  Copyright 2001 St. Louis Post-Dispatch, Inc.


                              199 of 275 DOCUMENTS

                       St. Louis Post-Dispatch (Missouri)

                 October 5, 2001 Friday Five Star Lift Edition

BOND PLAN WOULD TRACK, SCREEN ALIENS MORE CLOSELY;
 MEASURE WOULD BE ATTACHED TO ANTI-TERRORISM BILL

BYLINE: Karen Branch-Brioso Post-Dispatch Washington Bureau

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. A9

LENGTH: 527 words

DATELINE: WASHINGTON


Enlisting a Democrat and a moderate Republican as allies, Sen. Christopher "Kit"
Bond, R-Mo., introduced a plan Thursday to better screen foreign visitors to the
United States and track them once they arrive.

Bond said his legislation was inspired by the Sept. 11 terrorist attacks
allegedly carried out by 19 foreign visitors - some of whom had overstayed their
tourist or student visas. He intends to attach the measures to an anti-terrorism
bill expected to be taken up next week in both the House and Senate.

"Now that we all know how real a threat these illegal aliens can be, I hope we
can include these provisions in the anti-terrorism bill," said Bond as he
unveiled the plan with Sens. Kent Conrad, D-N.D., and Olympia Snowe, R-Me.

The proposed legislation would accelerate the enforcement of laws passed in 1996
that required monitoring of all foreign students at U.S. colleges and
universities. The laws also required the Immigration and Naturalization Service
to keep tabs on other foreign visitors to crack down on those who overstayed
their visas.

Bond's plan would require the federal government to "immediately" implement the
system at all U.S. airports, seaports and land borders. It also would expand the
student-tracking system to include "flight schools, language schools, trade
schools and vocational schools."

Several of the suspected hijackers from the Sept. 11 attacks attended flight
schools in the United States. One, Hani Hanjour, entered the country on a visa
to study English at an Oakland, Calif., college but never showed up at the
school. Hanjour is believed to have helped hijack the flight that crashed into
the Pentagon.

Bond's bill would require schools to notify the INS within 30 days if a foreign
student fails to show up for class. Their names would be entered into an FBI
database.

Sen. Diane Feinstein, D-Calif., has worked with Snowe on a similar plan that
would also place a six-month moratorium on foreign student visas while
security-tracking is put into place. Bond believes that to be too drastic a
measure: "Ninety-nine percent of the foreign students here are a very vital part
of U.S. relations," he said.

Snowe emphasized her support of another part of Bond's plan designed to keep
terrorists from entering the country. It would require federal agencies -
including the INS, FBI, the Central Intelligence Agency and Department of
Defense - to regularly share their information on potential terrorists with the
State Department. The information would go into an existing database available
at all U.S. embassies and consulates that issue visas.

"Now, we have a situation where no law requires agencies like the FBI and CIA to
share information on dangerous aliens applying for either immigrant or
non-immigrant visas," Snowe said. "Think about what that means. We know that at
least 16 of the 19 suspected hijackers entered the U.S. on non-immigrant visas."

Conrad said, "We're not talking about witch hunts. We're talking about common
sense. We ought to be able to shut out known terrorists before they come in and
share information that can prevent terrorism, and, we hope, save lives."

LOAD-DATE: October 5, 2001

LANGUAGE: English

NOTES: Reporter Karen Branch-Brioso; E-mail: kbranch@post-dispatch.com; Phone:
202-298-6880

                  Copyright 2001 St. Louis Post-Dispatch, Inc.


                              200 of 275 DOCUMENTS

                       St. Louis Post-Dispatch (Missouri)

               October 31, 2001 Wednesday Five Star Lift Edition

AGENCY STEPS UP INQUIRIES ON FOREIGN STUDENTS;
 MIZZOU HAS BEEN ASKED FOR DATA ON 1,300 AT ITS CAMPUS

BYLINE: Susan C. Thomson Of The Post-Dispatch

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. A2

LENGTH: 437 words


Even before President George W. Bush proclaimed Monday a crackdown on U.S. visas
for foreign students, some U.S. colleges and universities were already feeling
the squeeze.

Jim McCartney, interim director of the International Center at the University of
Missouri at Columbia, said the Immigration and Naturalization Service made a
special request to his office about 10 days ago for data on each of the campus's
1,300 foreign students.

McCartney said the agency asked for copies of each student's visa d ocuments
plus a transcript, the student's current program and number of credit hours
being taken. To comply within the agency's two-week deadline, "We've got three
people who aren't doing anything but standing at the copy machine," McCartney
said.

St. Louis University has received since Sept. 11 "moderately more" calls than
usual from the immigration agency, just checking to see whether individual
students are enrolled, spokesman Jeff Fowler said.

The agency long has had the legal right to certain types of information about
foreign students, and colleges are obliged to keep it and give it to the agency
when it asks. Administrators who work with foreign students at colleges in the
St. Louis area say the agency has always asked for the information -
periodically. They also say they are hearing on their professional grapevine
that the immigration agency has been extra active in requesting information in
the past seven weeks.

Agency spokeswoman Elaine Komis would say only that, because of the terrorist
attacks of Sept. 11, the agency has been seeking information that it had not
sought before.

MU's McCartney said he had "no notion" how the agency was choosing schools for
scrutiny or why it had selected Mizzou.

Bert Barry, director of international services at Webster University, said the
school had been "fortunate - knock on wood - that we haven't had such a request"
from the immigration agency.

Student visas have come to public attention since Sept. 11 because two of the
terrorists involved in the attacks may have used them to enter the country
initially. Barry and his counterparts at other colleges say the immigration
agency's current system for tracking foreign students is so full of loopholes
that holders of student visas can easily enter and stay without ever registering
for a class.

Toni Liston, international student services adviser at Southern Illinois
University at Edwardsville, said the immigration service has never had "the
money, the computers, the wherewithal" to monitor foreign students. She said its
current system suffers from lags of two to four years.

LOAD-DATE: October 31, 2001

LANGUAGE: English

NOTES: AMERICA RESPONDS; Reporter Susan C. Thomson:; E-mail:
sthomson@post-dispatch.com; Phone: 314-209-1315

                  Copyright 2001 St. Louis Post-Dispatch, Inc.


                              201 of 275 DOCUMENTS

                       St. Louis Post-Dispatch (Missouri)

                   November 4, 2001 Sunday Three Star Edition

U.S. REVIEWS PROGRAM ALLOWING FOREIGNERS TO VISIT WITHOUT VISAS;
 SLOVENIA, PORTUGAL WILL BE FIRST COUNTRIES ASSESSED

BYLINE: The Associated Press

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. A8

LENGTH: 274 words

DATELINE: WASHINGTON


Concerned about the entry of ineligible immigrants, U.S. officials will set out
for Slovenia and Portugal this weekend to begin reviewing a program that allows
people from 29 countries to visit the United States without visas, the State
Department said Friday.

Also scheduled for reviews over the coming year are Italy, Uruguay, Argentina
and Belgium, State Department spokesman Richard Boucher said. A review of all
participating countries will take five years.

The visa waiver program allows people with passports to enter and stay for 90
days. About 23 million people used the program last year.

The inspection will include a look at the number of overstays from each country
and the host country's system of issuing passports, Boucher said.

The goal is to ensure that host country policies meet the convenience and the
safety of the travelers as well as guarding against travel by terrorists and
others who are ineligible, he said.

Countries that do not meet standards can be dropped.

Fifteen of the 19 hijackers who participated in the Sept. 11 terrorist attacks
came to the United States from Saudi Arabia. Since Saudi Arabia does not
participate in the waiver program, all 15 were required to obtain visas. U.S.
officials have not said where the other four came from.

Countries participating in the waiver program are: Andorra, Argentina, Austria,
Australia, Belgium, Brunei, Denmark, Finland, France, Germany, Iceland, Ireland,
Italy, Japan, Liechtenstein, Luxembourg, Monaco, The Netherlands, New Zealand,
Norway, Portugal, San Marino, Singapore, Slovenia, Spain, Sweden, Switzerland,
the United Kingdom and Uruguay.

LOAD-DATE: November 4, 2001

LANGUAGE: English

                  Copyright 2001 St. Louis Post-Dispatch, Inc.


                              202 of 275 DOCUMENTS

                       St. Louis Post-Dispatch (Missouri)

                 November 4, 2001 Sunday Five Star Lift Edition

REFUGEES HERE EXPRESS FEARS, HOPES IN WAKE OF ATTACKS ;
 FORUM IS DESIGNED TO AID UNDERSTANDING OF MUSLIMS

BYLINE: D. Paul Harris Of The Post-Dispatch

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. A12

LENGTH: 615 words


Fais Akbari, an Afghan refugee who arrived in the United States less than a
month ago, is excited about his future here and was glad to have the opportunity
Saturday to express his emotions.

"I came here to raise up my children," Akbari said through an interpreter. "I
feel that I am already at home. Until the American government tells me to go,
this is my homeland."

Akbari was among the speakers Saturday at a program that brought together
immigrants and refugees of the local Afghan, Somali and Iraqi communities to
express their fears and to discuss living in this country since the terrorist
attacks Sept. 11. The panel discussion was at St. Louis University.

Angie O'Gorman of the Immigration Law Project at Legal Services of Eastern
Missouri coordinated the program. O'Gorman said the program was the first of
several designed to help St. Louisans learn more about the experience of Muslims
here and how "we can be of some support to these three communities in
particular."

"We cannot learn your experiences from anyone else but you," said O'Gorman, as
she opened the discussion standing before about 110 people from various
nationalities.

The program featured a panel discussion with a speaker and interpreter from each
of the three communities. The program concluded with a discussion about how the
community should respond to the concerns of the immigrants and refugees. But the
speakers, like Akbari, provided the drama and passion of the day.

One was Khalil Hassan, a social worker in St. Louis who was born in Iraq. Hassan
spoke of some difficult moments with his 12-year-old daughter.

"My daughter is like any other kid," said Hassan. "She likes Nelly and the
Backstreet Boys and things like that.

"On Sept. 12 at dinner time, my daughter said to me with tears in her eyes,
'Your people did it.' Of course, I had to think about how to deal with this
issue," said Hassan. "We spent two hours trying to explain to her the situation.

"On Sept. 13 at dinner time again," he said, "a call came from her teacher
asking how she was doing. The minute she heard that her teacher called, she was
devastated, wondering why her teacher didn't call any of the other students,
only her. But it was a call out of love and concern because of some of the
things other students may have said to her.

"My daughter said she wished that she had blue eyes and blond hair. I said to
her, 'You are beautiful ... your hair is beautiful. You can go to a salon and
change the color of your hair, but that doesn't change who you are inside.'

"For us, that was more devastating than you can know."

Abdirahman Farah, a retired businessman from Somalia, has lived in the United
States since 1996. He practices Islam. He spoke through an interpreter.

"War is no good," he said as he began to sob. "It's not good for any human
being. We feel bad to share religion with the people who caused the Sept. 11
tragedy.

"Since then, we get scared. Scared to send out children to school, but we still
send them to school."

Homa Zafer, an Afghani refugee, is a medical interpreter for Barnes-Jewish
Hospital.

"Sept. 11 was a tragedy for all the people of the world," said Zafer,
"especially for the Afghan refugees here because we are suspects of terrorism.
We received several calls from (Afghan) people who were harassed. They were
afraid. They were thinking that maybe the United States government would change
toward them and would deport them back to Afghanistan or Pakistan, which was
really a scare for them."

O'Gorman said the discussion was most successful in helping people to become
more human to each other.

"I think that instead of seeing refugees we now know people," she said.

LOAD-DATE: November 4, 2001

LANGUAGE: English

NOTES: AMERICA RESPONDS

                  Copyright 2001 St. Louis Post-Dispatch, Inc.


                              203 of 275 DOCUMENTS

                       St. Louis Post-Dispatch (Missouri)

                November 4, 2001 Sunday Early Five Star Edition

REFUGEES EXPRESS FEARS, DESIRES IN WAKE OF ATTACKS;
 FORUM IS DESIGNED TO AID UNDERSTANDING OF MUSLIMS

BYLINE: D. Paul Harris Of The Post-Dispatch

SECTION: METRO; Pg. C4

LENGTH: 483 words


Fais Akbari, an Afghan refugee who arrived in the United States less than a
month ago, is excited about his future here and was glad to have the opportunity
Saturday to express his emotions.

"I came here to raise up my children," Akbari said through an interpreter. "I
feel that I am already at home. Until the American government tells me to go,
this is my homeland."

Akbari was among the speakers Saturday at a program that brought together
immigrants and refugees of the local Afghan, Somali and Iraqi communities to
express their fears and to create dialogue about living in this country since
the terrorist attacks Sept. 11. The panel discussion was at St. Louis
University.

Angie O'Gorman of the Immigration Law Project at Legal Services of Eastern
Missouri coordinated the program. O'Gorman said the program is the first of
several designed to help St. Louisans learn more about the experience of Muslims
here and how "we can be of some support to these three communities in
particular."

"We cannot learn your experiences from anyone else but you," said O'Gorman, as
she opened the discussion standing before about 110 people from various
nationalities.

The program featured a panel discussion with a speaker and interpreter from each
of the three communities. The program concluded with a discussion about how the
community should respond to the concerns of the immigrants and refugees. But the
speakers, like Akbari, provided the drama and passion of the day.

One was Khalil Hassan, a social worker in St. Louis who was born in Iraq. Hassan
spoke of some difficult moments with his 12-year-old daughter.

"My daughter is like any other kid," said Hassan. "She likes Nelly and the
Backstreet Boys and things like that.

"On Sept. 12 at dinner time, my daughter said to me with tears in her eyes,
'Your people did it.' Of course, I had to think about how to deal with this
issue," said Hassan. "We spent two hours trying to explain to her the situation.

"On Sept. 13 at dinner time again," he said, "a call came from her teacher
asking how she was doing. The minute she heard that her teacher called, she was
devastated, wondering why her teacher didn't call any of the other students,
only her. But it was a call out of love and concern because of some of the
things other students may have said to her.

"My daughter said she wished that she had blue eyes and blond hair. I said to
her, 'You are beautiful ... your hair is beautiful. You can go to a salon and
change the color of your hair, but that doesn't change who you are inside.'

"For us, that was more devastating than you can know."

Abdirahman Farah, a retired businessman from Somalia, has lived in the United
States since 1996. He practices Islam.

"War is no good," he said as he began to sob. "It's not good for any human
being. We feel bad to share religion with the people who caused the Sept. 11
tragedy."

LOAD-DATE: November 4, 2001

LANGUAGE: English

                  Copyright 2001 St. Louis Post-Dispatch, Inc.


                              204 of 275 DOCUMENTS

                       St. Louis Post-Dispatch (Missouri)

                  November 15, 2001 Thursday Five Star Edition

NATION/WORLD

BYLINE: From News Services

SECTION: NEWS; Nation/World Briefs Column; Pg. A12

LENGTH: 661 words


WASHINGTON

Gephardt, Daschle plan talks in Mexico with Fox

The top two congressional Democrats plan to go to Mexico this weekend to meet
with President Vicente Fox and other senior Mexican officials to discuss
immigration, border security and other issues.

House Minority Leader Richard Gephardt, D-Mo., and Senate Majority Leader Tom
Daschle, D-S.D., will leave Friday for the three-day trip.

Although the Sept. 11 attacks changed the national agenda, "our partnership with
Mexico is just as strong as it was before the attacks and in some ways maybe
stronger," Gephardt said.

PHILADELPHIA

Longtime fugitive Einhorn gets new murder trial

A judge granted a new trial Wednesday for Ira Einhorn, a one-time hippie guru
and longtime fugitive who was convicted in absentia in 1977 for the murder of
his girlfriend.

Einhorn, 61, jumped bail and fled the United States in 1981, shortly before he
was scheduled for trial in Pennsylvania. He was convicted in absentia in 1993
and sentenced to life in prison for the murder of Holly Maddux. Hermummified
remains were found stuffed in a steamer trunk in the couple's apartment in
Philadelphia 18 months after Einhorn said she went to the store and never
returned.

In 1998, Pennsylvania enacted a law providing for a retrial upon his request.
The move was made to satisfy a French requirement that foreign nationals not be
extradited based on trials in absentia.

In issuing his decision, Common Pleas Judge D. Webster Keogh said he would wait
to address other issues raised in court filings by Einhorn's attorneys,
including the constitutionality of the 1998 law.

LOUISVILLE, Ky.

Artificial heart patient suffers a stroke

Robert Tools, the first patient to receive a totally implantable artificial
heart, suffered a stroke Sunday and remains in serious condition, surgeons at
Jewish Hospital in Louisville, Ky., said Wednesday.

The cause of the damage was a blood clot of undetermined origin that lodged in
an artery on the left side of Tools' brain, said Dr. Laman Gray, one of the
surgeons. Tools' right arm and leg were paralyzed by the stroke, and he was
still unable to speak by Tuesday, Gray said, adding that his patient had
recovered some movement in his leg.

Tools, 59, received the device, which is powered by a small battery under the
skin, on July 2. Until Sunday, he had been doing quite well, and had made 20
excursions outside the hospital, said Dr. Robert Dowling. In the last two weeks,
Tools was beginning to gain weight - a sign of recovery from his pre-implant
condition, Dowling said.

LOS ANGELES

Ex-fugitive withdraws guilty plea of conspiracy

Former Symbionese Liberation Army fugitive Sara Jane Olson has asked to withdraw
a guilty plea and be tried on charges of attempting to blow up police cars in a
conspiracy to murder officers in the 1970s.

The new twist in the long-running case surfaced in a motion unsealed Wednesday
that asked Superior Court Judge Larry Paul Fidler to withdraw her plea, which
was entered Oct. 31, immediately repudiated outside court, and then reaffirmed
in court Nov. 6.

Olson, 54, said that her plea to two charges in the original five-count
indictment was cowardice and that she had "found the courage to take what I know
is the honest course." She asked to go to trial on all charges, including three
that were being dropped.

BRITAIN

Ming jar bought for $145 sells for $1 million

A jar bought in an antique shop for $145 sold Wednesday for more than $1 million
after experts identified it as a 500-year-old Ming dynasty rarity.

Sotheby's auction house had estimated the jar's worth at $390,000, but it
reached a sale price of $1.09 million after a 7-minute bidding battle.

The jar, found on the back shelf of a shop selling European ceramics, dates from
the 1465-87 reign of the emperor Chenghua, said Julian King, Sotheby's Chinese
ceramics specialist.

The jar was bought by London art dealers Eskenazi Ltd.

LOAD-DATE: November 15, 2001

LANGUAGE: English

                  Copyright 2001 St. Louis Post-Dispatch, Inc.


                              205 of 275 DOCUMENTS

                       St. Louis Post-Dispatch (Missouri)

               November 17, 2001 Saturday Five Star Lift Edition

10 ISRAELIS DETAINED HERE REMAIN BEHIND BARS

BYLINE: Phillip O'Connor Of The Post-Dispatch

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 7

LENGTH: 650 words


* An Israeli Embassy official says the detentions are related to visa
violations, and that none of the 10 has been questioned about the attacks on
Sept. 11. But back in Israel, rumors swirl about reasons for the delay in their
release.

The visit to America to meet relatives was to have been their last great
adventure before returning home to marry and settle down.

But a young Israeli couple's dream trip turned into a nightmare Nov. 2 when the
man was taken into custody at a St. Louis area mall by immigration agents.

Today, he sits in the Mississippi County jail, in southeast Missouri. She sits
in an apartment working frantically for his release and the release of nine
other Israelis detained here this month. She asked that her name not be used,
fearing it could endanger her fiance's case.

The nine men and one Israeli woman picked up in the St. Louis area are part of a
larger group of Israelis detained nationwide since the terrorist attacks Sept.
11. Published reports have put the number of those detained at close to 100.

Almost all are young adults, held on charges of violating their tourist visas by
holding jobs in the United States. Some already have been released on bond or
deported. But many others continue to be held.

On Wednesday, an Immigration and Naturalization Service attorney requested a
delay in setting bond for any of the 10 detained in St. Louis, citing an ongoing
investigation, according to an attorney for some of those in custody. The INS
official provided the court no other information about the investigation, the
attorney said.

The group is next scheduled to appear before an immigration judge Nov. 28.
Spokesmen for the INS and the Department of Justice declined to comment.

Back home in Israel, parents of many of those detained in the St. Louis area
have set up a "war room" to constantly monitor their children's situation in the
United States.

"They're just thinking of this as such a crisis that needs to be dealt with,"
said Barbara Bleisch, an immigration attorney who is working with the families.
"They're strategizing."

Meanwhile, an Israeli Embassy official traveled from Chicago to meet Wednesday
with many of those detained here.

"They made a mistake for which we are very sorry," said David Roet, deputy
general consul in Chicago. "As a government representative of Israel, we don't
have any complaints regarding the way they are treated or have any reason to
suspect that they are being held for any other reason than visa violations."

He said none of those held here was questioned in any way about the terrorist
attacks Sept. 11.

He attributed any delay in their release to an overtaxed legal system and
increased security precautions.

"We, as Israelis, certainly understand that," Roet said.

Still, questions swirl at home.

"Their parents are saying the rumor in Israel is that there's suspicion that
there's a bin Laden operative in the United States now on an Israeli passport,
and that's what they're looking for," Bleisch said.

This month, Attorney General John Ashcroft dismissed reports of any such manhunt
for terrorists holding Israeli passports.

Still, the young bride-to-be worries.

"I understand the situation that America is in right now and I understand people
being scared, but when I walk around the streets with my friends, I'm afraid to
speak my language because I could be arrested and held for 48 hours just because
of my Hebrew," said the woman, 21.

Her fiance was detained when he went to the mall with two other Israel is who
worked there in violation of their visas. She was not with him at the time and
said he had gone to the mall to shop, not to work.

"This is the first time I understand how it feels not to be able to speak your
language because of fear, to know that someone can come in my house and arrest
me because I'm Israeli," she said. "I'm not angry, but I'm very sad."

LOAD-DATE: November 20, 2001

LANGUAGE: English

NOTES: AMERICA RESPONDS; Reporter Phillip O'Connor:; E-mail:
poconnor@post-dispatch.com; Phone: 314-340-8321

                  Copyright 2001 St. Louis Post-Dispatch, Inc.


                              206 of 275 DOCUMENTS

                       St. Louis Post-Dispatch (Missouri)

               November 22, 2001 Thursday Five Star Lift Edition

POLICE IN OREGON WON'T HELP FBI QUESTION IMMIGRANTS;
 IT BREAKS LAW TO QUESTION MIDDLE EASTERN MEN ARBITRARILY, CHIEF SAYS

BYLINE: The Associated Press

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. A7

LENGTH: 335 words

DATELINE: PORTLAND, ORE.


Portland police are refusing to help the FBI question Middle Eastern immigrants
hauled in as part of the terror investigation. They said the practice violates
Oregon law.

The Justice Department asked local law enforcement agencies around the country
for help tracking down 5,000 men for questioning about the Sept. 11 terrorist
attacks. But acting Police Chief Andrew Kirkland refused.

"The law does not allow us to go out and arbitrarily interview people whose only
offense is immigration or citizenship," he said Tuesday.

U.S. Attorney Michael Mosman, the chief federal prosecutor in Oregon, said the
questioning is legal, but added: "I'm supportive of their right to decide not to
do this particular task."

The FBI declined to comment.

Mayor Vera Katz on Wednesday said the city objected to certain questions that
would be asked of those on the list. She did not offer details but said police
may reconsider if the questions are changed.

Civil rights activists applauded the city's decision.

"These young men of Middle Eastern descent are being rounded up for questioning
without any basis or suspicion or probable cause. So basically it comes down to
racial profiling. It isn't OK with African-Americans so it shouldn't be OK for
any other racial group or ethnic group," said Zaha Hassan of the Middle East
subcommittee of the National Lawyers Guild.

Mosman said the list of 5,000 was drawn up to gather information and denied it
was akin to profiling. "It's just because we know less than we need to know
about terrorism, and this is a way to learn more," he said.

In San Francisco, police spokesman Jim Deignan said the FBI had made no formal
request for help from the city, but "we'll cooperate with the federal
authorities."

In Minneapolis, police spokeswoman Cyndi Montgomery said the police chief would
look closely at any request to help with interviews.

"The department hasn't made a decision as to whether such interviews might
conflict with racial profiling policies," she said.

LOAD-DATE: November 22, 2001

LANGUAGE: English

NOTES: AMERICA RESPONDS

                  Copyright 2001 St. Louis Post-Dispatch, Inc.


                              207 of 275 DOCUMENTS

                       St. Louis Post-Dispatch (Missouri)

                November 25, 2001 Sunday Five Star Lift Edition

MURDERER'S CASE DREW PRIOR CRITICISM FOR INS

BYLINE: Deirdre Shesgreen

SECTION: NEWSWATCH; Pg. B4

LENGTH: 220 words

DATELINE: WASHINGTON


Before Sept. 11, Exhibit A in the case for overhauling the Immigration and
Naturalization Service was the case of Angel Maturino Resendiz, a Mexican
national better known as the "railway killer."

In 1999, Texas police got a warrant for Resendiz's arrest for a murder in
Houston and asked INS officials to help catch him.

Border Patrol agents arrested Resendiz on June 1 of that year trying to
illegally cross into New Mexico, but because INS officials had failed to put a
"look out" notice in its computer tracking system, the agents didn't realize he
was wanted for murder.

The border patrol deported him, but he soon returned to the United States
surreptitiously and committed several more murders, including two in Illinois,
before surrendering on July 13.

Resendiz was sentenced to death last year for killing a Houston-area doctor. He
has been charged in Illinois in the deaths on June 15, 1999, of George Morber
Sr., 79, and Morber's daughter, Carolyn Frederick, 51, in Gorham, Ill., about 80
miles southeast of St. Louis.

Glenn Fine, the Justice Department Inspector General, said a review of the
incident found that INS employees had not been properly trained to use the
computer tracking system and the agency had done little to make sure agents were
educated and aware of the system's potential.

LOAD-DATE: November 25, 2001

LANGUAGE: English

GRAPHIC: PHOTO; Photo by THE ASSOCIATED PRESS - Angel Maturino Resendiz is
escorted from a plane by Texas Ranger Drew Carter (left) to a car after arriving
in Houston on July 13, 1999. The drifter from Mexico was convicted later of
killing several people in the United States and was sentenced to death.

                  Copyright 2001 St. Louis Post-Dispatch, Inc.


                              208 of 275 DOCUMENTS

                       St. Louis Post-Dispatch (Missouri)

               November 29, 2001 Thursday Five Star Lift Edition

FIVE ISRAELI DETAINEES EXPECT TO LEAVE COUNTRY SOON

BYLINE: Elizabethe Holland Of The Post-Dispatch

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. A9

LENGTH: 413 words


Five Israelis detained for nearly a month in the wake of the terrorist attacks
on charges of tourist visa violations expect to leave the country soon. Two
others still have hearings scheduled.

Nine Israeli men and one Israeli woman, who were taken into custody in the St.
Louis area, had been scheduled to appear Wednesday in closed hearings before an
immigration judge in St. Louis to determine their status. Attorneys for each of
the 10 could not be reached. But Barbara Bleisch, an attorney present at the
hearings, said five of the detainees agreed to leave voluntarily, meaning they
were to post bond and leave the country within a short time.

Release bonds were set for two others, she said, allowing for their release but
requiring them to appear for future hearings. The two wanted to look into
possible defenses to fight the charges against them, she said.

Bleisch said she did not know the status of the other three Israelis.

Regional spokesmen for the Immigration and Naturalization Service were
unavailable for comment. A national INS representative, Russ Bargain in
Washington, said he knew nothing about the cases because they did not register
"high enough on our radar."

The group is part of a larger group of Israelis detained nationwide since Sept.
11. Nearly all of those detained have been young adults held on charges of
violating their tourist visas by holding jobs in the United States.

The fiancee of one of the men scheduled for future hearings in St. Louis said
Wednesday that he refused to plead guilty to any violations. She said her fiance
insists he was not working illegally while in America and wants to fight the
allegation that he was.

The woman did not want her or her fiance's name used for fear it might adversely
affect his case.

The two came to the United States to meet relatives before returning to their
homeland to marry. Their plans were disrupted when the man was taken into
custody by immigration agents Nov. 2 at an area mall.

Since then, the woman has been working for his release from the Mississippi
County Jail and the release of others picked up under similar circumstances.

"I've just been on the phone all the time and visiting the jail and just going
crazy," she said.

After her fiance's final hearing, the woman said, the two will return home with
plans never to return to St. Louis.

Another Israeli suspected of visa violations was picked up in the St. Louis area
Tuesday. Bleisch is representing him.

LOAD-DATE: November 29, 2001

LANGUAGE: English

NOTES: AMERICA RESPONDS; Reporter Elizabethe Holland:; E-mail:
eholland@post-dispatch.com; Phone: 314-340-8259

                  Copyright 2001 St. Louis Post-Dispatch, Inc.


                              209 of 275 DOCUMENTS

                       St. Louis Post-Dispatch (Missouri)

               December 5, 2001 Wednesday Five Star Lift Edition

EGYPTIAN MAN IS RETURNING HOME AFTER TWO MONTHS IN MISSOURI JAIL

BYLINE: Elizabethe Holland And Tim O'Neil Of The Post-Dispatch

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. A14

LENGTH: 351 words


Without being given a chance to pack his belongings or say farewell to friends,
an Egyptian native who had been detained in Missouri for 2 1/2 months left St.
Louis en route to his home country Tuesday in the company of two federal agents.

Osama El Far, 30, had been held since Sept. 24 after federal officials
confronted him at the end of his overnight shift at Lambert Field and questioned
him regarding the terrorist attacks Sept. 11. He worked at the airport for a
commuter airline.

El Far maintained that he had no connection to the incidents but did admit to
violating immigration laws by staying after his 1996 student visa expired and
getting a job. El Far is one of hundreds of Middle Eastern men detained across
the country after the terrorist attacks.

El Far agreed to leave the country voluntarily but was ordered to be accompanied
by Immigration and Naturalization Service agents on an American Airlines flight
to New York's John F. Kennedy Airport and up until the time he left the country
for Cairo on EgyptAir. His EgyptAir flight was scheduled to depart at 10 p.m.
Tuesday.

El Far expressed mixed feelings about his pending departure in a telephone
interview Monday from the Mississippi County Jail in Charleston, Mo., where he
had been detained.

"It got to the point that I was about to despair to get out," said El Far, who
lived in University City while working as an airplane mechanic for Trans States
Airline. "I was really getting scared.

"I had a very bad experience with the authority, but I still love America and
admire the American people. A lot of them helped me out and prayed for me. ...
But it's God's will that I couldn't stay here any longer."

Upset that El Far was being held without sufficient explanation, J. Justin
Meehan, one of his attorneys, asked the U.S. District Court on Nov. 26 for a
hearing to force an explanation of the detention. El Far said he believed that
request was what led the government to agree to let him go.

Meehan said Tuesday that he would file for a dismissal on his request as soon as
he learns El Far has made it to Egypt.

LOAD-DATE: December 5, 2001

LANGUAGE: English

NOTES: AMERICA RESPONDS; Reporter Elizabethe Holland:; E-mail:
eholland@post-dispatch.com; Phone: 314-340-8259; Reporter Tim O'Neil:; E-mail:
toneil@post-dispatch.com; Phone: 314-340-8132

GRAPHIC: PHOTO; Color Photo headshot - (Osama) El Far; "I still love America"

                  Copyright 2001 St. Louis Post-Dispatch, Inc.


                              210 of 275 DOCUMENTS

                       St. Louis Post-Dispatch (Missouri)

                  December 16, 2001 Sunday Three Star Edition

FLORIDA MAKES DRIVERS LICENSES HARDER TO GET

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. A4

LENGTH: 310 words

DATELINE: MIAMI (AP)


Rules added after Sept. 11 to make it more difficult for would-be terrorists to
get Florida driver's licenses and IDs were put into effect early because
immigrants were rushing to beat the deadline.

"It looked like a last-minute rush to get in under the old rules so we went
ahead and implemented (the new rules) since we've got the equipment and trained
people on site," Robert Sanchez, spokesman for the Florida Department of Motor
Vehicles, said Friday.

Under the old rules, anyone with the proper documents could walk into a driver's
license office and walk out with a permit or photo identification the same day.

Now, non-citizens receive a 30-day temporary paper permit. During that time, the
applicants' documents are copied and crosschecked with immigration authorities.
If everything matches, the applicants are mailed a license.

The changes will make it easier for officials to verify an applicant's
immigration status and ties the expiration of their driver's licenses to the
expiration of their visas.

The changes were prompted by the fact that 13 of the 19 terrorists involved in
the Sept. 11 attacks were known to have Florida ID cards or driving permits.

Gov. Jeb Bush ordered the changes, saying non-citizens should not receive
licenses that expire after their visas.

"People were using this ID to commit acts of war against our country, to provide
identification to access things which ultimately brought tremendous grief and
hardship to a lot of people," he said.

Scores of immigrants waited in long lines Friday to apply for driver's permits
or IDs, even after the changes took effect several days earlier than planned.

"It's good that they take these measures, but not that they restrict things so
much," said Bert Sosa, 37, a Cuban immigrant who waited more than an hour to
apply for his tractor-trailer driving permit.

LOAD-DATE: December 16, 2001

LANGUAGE: English

NOTES: AMERICA RESPONDS

GRAPHIC: PHOTO; Photo by the Associated Press - Tony Latour (left) of the
Florida Department of Motor Vehicles, checks indentification cards belonging to
Lisabeth Elias on Friday in Miami as Elias and others wait for drivers licenses.

                  Copyright 2001 St. Louis Post-Dispatch, Inc.


                              211 of 275 DOCUMENTS

                       St. Louis Post-Dispatch (Missouri)

               December 19, 2001 Wednesday Five Star Lift Edition

SAUDI PRINCESS LIVING IN FLORIDA IS CHARGED WITH BEATING AND PUSHING HER MAID

BYLINE: The Associated Press

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. A12

LENGTH: 236 words

DATELINE: ORLANDO, FLA.


A Saudi princess has been charged with beating her maid and pushing her down a
flight of stairs.

Princess Buniah al-Saud, 41, the niece of King Fahd, was arrested Monday on
charges of aggravated battery. She could face 15 years in prison.

She was also charged Tuesday with stealing $6,000 worth of electronic equipment
from her chauffeur, whose apartment she was staying in.

She was ordered freed on $5,000 bail Tuesday and told to surrender her passport.

The Saudi Embassy in Washington said the princess had diplomatic immunity. But
the Immigration and Naturalization Service said al-Saud failed to notify the
agency of her itinerary in America, thereby leaving her without diplomatic
immunity.

To claim diplomatic immunity, a person must be accredited with his or her
embassy or consulate and must be in the host country fulfilling a diplomatic
function, according to the State Department.

The princess has been living in Orlando while studying English at the University
of Central Florida.

Neighbors called 911 on Friday after Memet Ismiyati, al-Saud's Indonesian maid,
36, ran crying from the apartment she shared with the princess. She told
deputies that al-Saud beat her, hit her head against a wall and pushed her down
a flight of stairs. Ismiyati was treated at a hospital and released.

When deputies went to the princess' apartment Friday, she denied striking or
pushing the maid.

LOAD-DATE: December 19, 2001

LANGUAGE: English

                  Copyright 2001 St. Louis Post-Dispatch, Inc.


                              212 of 275 DOCUMENTS

                       St. Louis Post-Dispatch (Missouri)

                 August 26, 2002 Monday Five Star Lift Edition

JAIL IN TINY ILLINOIS TOWN HAS INFLUX OF INS PRISONERS;
 ALIENS OF 40 NATIONALITIES ARE BEING HOUSED IN ULLIN

BYLINE: Imran Vittachi Of The Post-Dispatch

SECTION: NEWS ; Pg. A1

LENGTH: 1416 words

DATELINE: ULLIN, ILL.


Corn, wheat and soybean fields blanket the landscape that holds a transient
population of foreigners stranded as they await a forced exit from the United
States.

These are the fields of lost dreams for the nationals of more than 40 countries
who, as unwanted aliens, are jailed within the whitewashed walls of Ullin's
Tri-County Detention Center.

The privately run jail is a low-rise, compact building with barred skylights,
lockdown cells and fences topped with razor coils. Since last year's terrorist
attacks, its prisoner list appears to include more Arab and Muslim names than
before Sept. 11.

Surrounding Pulaski County owns the jail, contracting it out to the U.S.
Marshal's Service and the Immigration and Naturalization Service. The INS is
Tri-County's best customer. Most of the jail's inmates are INS detainees, who
were arrested in one of the three states that make up the Chicago district --
Illinois, Indiana and Wisconsin.

The past year has brought a bumper-crop of INS arrivals, compared to the
previous three years since the jail opened in 1999, said Gil Walker, chairman
and chief executive of GRW Corp., a Tennessee company that staffs and runs the
jail.

"Demand for service has increased since Sept. 11," he said.

Walker estimated that the inmate population and number of Arab and Muslim
detainees at Tri-County had risen by 10 percent since September.

But officials of the Justice Department deny that its immigration and security
agencies are singling out Arabs or Muslims for deportation.

The foreign men (the jail does not house women) may spend anywhere from two
weeks to 10 months inside Tri-County as they wait for a one-way ticket home. INS
officials say that the foreigners are being held there and at other jails and
prisons nationwide for violating immigration law and nothing else.

Either they've overstayed their visas, or they've committed crimes that the INS
says qualifies them for expulsion.

The detainees awaiting a one-way ticket home rarely go outside into the small
enclosure that serves as the jail's recreation yard. So they are virtually
invisible to the people of Ullin, a dirt-poor patch of the American heartland,
155 miles southeast of St. Louis near where the Ohio and Mississippi rivers
meet.

Ullin has 550 residents. Downtown, squashed against the Illinois Central
Railroad tracks, is a tight circle of narrow streets and local businesses. The
highlights include Porky's Fine Food Restaurant, a general store and an outlet
that distributes animal feed products.

Moved to Texas

"Before we moved that bunch the other day, I counted 42 nationalities," said
Jack Parks, a liaison officer with the Immigration and Naturalization Service
who is stationed at the jail.

Parks took visiting journalists from St. Louis on a tour inside. He looked down
from a hidden overhead surveillance room at a group of Laotian, Cambodian and
Vietnamese detainees.

Parks was referring to 104 INS detainees who'd just been transferred from Ullin
to a holding facility in Texas. They were moved because of a space shortage for
the region's growing population of detainees, he said.

They had been arrested under federal deportation orders. And since the agency
has no detention facility of its own in the district, it must rent space from 30
correctional facilities, including the Ullin jail, said Marilu Cabrera, an INS
spokeswoman in Chicago.

One of the detainees transferred to Texas was an Afghan, Mohamad Dawlatzai.
Before his transfer on Aug. 12, a Post-Dispatch reporter interviewed him at
length. He reported that in early August, 10 newcomers - all Arabs or Muslims -
arrived at Ullin.

Dawlatzai has been in INS custody since last October, when he was released from
an Illinois prison after serving six years for drug smuggling.

He said that he's seen many nationals of Arab countries or countries with large
Muslim populations arriving or passing through the jail during his stay there.
When he was first interviewed in mid-July, he estimated that 30 to 40 of the
jail's maximum of around 200 inmates were Arabs or Muslims.

Dawlatzai said that no federal law enforcement officers had questioned him about
whether he's had ties with anti-American terrorist groups.

But Arshad-Abdul Wahid, a 21-year-old detainee from Pakistan, said that the FBI
agents had asked him and other Muslims similar questions.

"They asked me which mosque I went to in Chicago," said Wahid, a detainee
arrested by the INS for overstaying his student visa. "They asked, 'Do you know
anyone connected to terrorism?' I said I don't know. They asked everybody here
the same question."

INS faces criticism

Since Sept. 11, immigration lawyers in both St. Louis and Chicago say they have
noticed an increase in cases involving aliens from Arab and predominantly Muslim
countries. Lawyers say the heavier caseloads mean longer delays for clients to
get their day in court.

Yaser Tabbara is a Syrian-American lawyer in training with Heartland Alliance.
The group is a nonprofit organization in Chicago that gives legal help to
undocumented aliens.

Tabbara said he suspected that the INS was under pressure from the Justice
Department to detain Arab and Muslim aliens living in the Chicago area's
Arab-American strongholds.

He said the government was using the pretext of the INS enforcing immigration
violations as a way to round up and kick out Arabs and Muslims who may be seen
as posing a domestic security threat.

"If the INS is to apply the law and apprehend all people (non-Arabs and
non-Muslims as well), the INS wouldn't have enough space to detain those
numbers," Tabbara said. He often drives the 350 miles down Interstate 57 to
Ullin, where he conducts informational sessions with the jail's Arab and Muslim
inmates.

Justice Department spokesman Jorge Martinez called absurd the suggestion that
the INS was singling out Arabs and Muslims in enforcing immigration law, or
prosecuting aliens who commit crimes or overstay their visas.

"The Justice Department exists to uphold the laws of the United States of
America - not to engage in racial profiling," Martinez said.

Michael Heston, director of the district office of the INS in Kansas City (which
covers Missouri and Kansas), declined the Post-Dispatch's request under the
Freedom of Information Act to disclose the names and nationalities of more than
170 people detained in his jurisdiction in mid-July.

He cited the detainees' rights to privacy.

Immigration lawyers and constitutional rights experts claim that changes made to
immigration laws in 1996 have resulted in a big jump in the number of aliens
being detained because of alleged violations and crimes. As a result, sources
said, Arab and Muslim detainees now have to wait longer for their day in court.

Lawyers point to the change made in 1996 that broadened the term "aggravated
felony." The definition sets out some of the rules that trigger detention and
deportation orders. It has fueled soaring detention rates.

Because of the change, immigration lawyers say, the government can round up and
expel aliens convicted of felonies as well as those who have committed some
lesser crimes.

Of the 19,137 aliens who were detained by the INS last year, the Bureau of
Justice Statistics said that 14.5 percent of them had been convicted of property
offenses.

Jail boosts economy

Detaining more aliens has been a boon for Pulaski County and the private company
that runs Ullin's jail.

In the late 1990s, Pulaski County was designated as part of an economic
empowerment zone by the federal government as a way to help boost its economy.

That meant the people who built the Tri-County jail got incentives for putting
it in Pulaski County.

And Pulaski County got 50 new jobs to staff and guard the jail, and an increase
in demand for local services.

Both Walker and Gerry Wozniak, the jail's administrator, are proud of how they
run the Ullin jail. They said they strive to ensure that the inmates who are
slated for deportation are made as comfortable as possible during their stays
there.

Their cultural needs and customs are accommodated. For example, every Friday the
loft in the cellblock's library is reserved for group prayers among the resident
Muslims. Tri-County officials also said they offered training for inmates in
things like English language and computer courses.

"We're a kind of an innkeeper," Walker said. "We don't just warehouse inmates.
All we do is give them a chance to get their lives turned around."

LOAD-DATE: August 27, 2002

LANGUAGE: English

NOTES: Reporter Imran Vittachi; E-mail: ivittachi@post-dispatch.com

GRAPHIC: MAP, GRAPHIC GRAPHIC GRAPHICS
(1) Post-Dispatch Graphic , Map - Ullin, Illinois
(2) Graphic , Chart - Federa immigration suspects
From 1996 to 2000, the number of people suspected of an immigrationoffense as
the most series charge they were facing more than doubled
(1985 to 2000)
2000 - 16,495
Bureau of Justice Statistics

                  Copyright 2002 St. Louis Post-Dispatch, Inc.


                              213 of 275 DOCUMENTS

                       St. Louis Post-Dispatch (Missouri)

                 August 26, 2002 Monday Five Star Lift Edition

JAIL IN TINY ILLINOIS TOWN HAS INFLUX OF INS PRISONERS;
 ALIENS OF 40 NATIONALITIES ARE BEING HOUSED IN ULLIN

BYLINE: Imran Vittachi Of The Post-Dispatch

SECTION: NEWS ; Pg. A1

LENGTH: 1416 words

DATELINE: ULLIN, ILL.


Corn, wheat and soybean fields blanket the landscape that holds a transient
population of foreigners stranded as they await a forced exit from the United
States.

These are the fields of lost dreams for the nationals of more than 40 countries
who, as unwanted aliens, are jailed within the whitewashed walls of Ullin's
Tri-County Detention Center.

The privately run jail is a low-rise, compact building with barred skylights,
lockdown cells and fences topped with razor coils. Since last year's terrorist
attacks, its prisoner list appears to include more Arab and Muslim names than
before Sept. 11.

Surrounding Pulaski County owns the jail, contracting it out to the U.S.
Marshal's Service and the Immigration and Naturalization Service. The INS is
Tri-County's best customer. Most of the jail's inmates are INS detainees, who
were arrested in one of the three states that make up the Chicago district --
Illinois, Indiana and Wisconsin.

The past year has brought a bumper-crop of INS arrivals, compared to the
previous three years since the jail opened in 1999, said Gil Walker, chairman
and chief executive of GRW Corp., a Tennessee company that staffs and runs the
jail.

"Demand for service has increased since Sept. 11," he said.

Walker estimated that the inmate population and number of Arab and Muslim
detainees at Tri-County had risen by 10 percent since September.

But officials of the Justice Department deny that its immigration and security
agencies are singling out Arabs or Muslims for deportation.

The foreign men (the jail does not house women) may spend anywhere from two
weeks to 10 months inside Tri-County as they wait for a one-way ticket home. INS
officials say that the foreigners are being held there and at other jails and
prisons nationwide for violating immigration law and nothing else.

Either they've overstayed their visas, or they've committed crimes that the INS
says qualifies them for expulsion.

The detainees awaiting a one-way ticket home rarely go outside into the small
enclosure that serves as the jail's recreation yard. So they are virtually
invisible to the people of Ullin, a dirt-poor patch of the American heartland,
155 miles southeast of St. Louis near where the Ohio and Mississippi rivers
meet.

Ullin has 550 residents. Downtown, squashed against the Illinois Central
Railroad tracks, is a tight circle of narrow streets and local businesses. The
highlights include Porky's Fine Food Restaurant, a general store and an outlet
that distributes animal feed products.

Moved to Texas

"Before we moved that bunch the other day, I counted 42 nationalities," said
Jack Parks, a liaison officer with the Immigration and Naturalization Service
who is stationed at the jail.

Parks took visiting journalists from St. Louis on a tour inside. He looked down
from a hidden overhead surveillance room at a group of Laotian, Cambodian and
Vietnamese detainees.

Parks was referring to 104 INS detainees who'd just been transferred from Ullin
to a holding facility in Texas. They were moved because of a space shortage for
the region's growing population of detainees, he said.

They had been arrested under federal deportation orders. And since the agency
has no detention facility of its own in the district, it must rent space from 30
correctional facilities, including the Ullin jail, said Marilu Cabrera, an INS
spokeswoman in Chicago.

One of the detainees transferred to Texas was an Afghan, Mohamad Dawlatzai.
Before his transfer on Aug. 12, a Post-Dispatch reporter interviewed him at
length. He reported that in early August, 10 newcomers - all Arabs or Muslims -
arrived at Ullin.

Dawlatzai has been in INS custody since last October, when he was released from
an Illinois prison after serving six years for drug smuggling.

He said that he's seen many nationals of Arab countries or countries with large
Muslim populations arriving or passing through the jail during his stay there.
When he was first interviewed in mid-July, he estimated that 30 to 40 of the
jail's maximum of around 200 inmates were Arabs or Muslims.

Dawlatzai said that no federal law enforcement officers had questioned him about
whether he's had ties with anti-American terrorist groups.

But Arshad-Abdul Wahid, a 21-year-old detainee from Pakistan, said that the FBI
agents had asked him and other Muslims similar questions.

"They asked me which mosque I went to in Chicago," said Wahid, a detainee
arrested by the INS for overstaying his student visa. "They asked, 'Do you know
anyone connected to terrorism?' I said I don't know. They asked everybody here
the same question."

INS faces criticism

Since Sept. 11, immigration lawyers in both St. Louis and Chicago say they have
noticed an increase in cases involving aliens from Arab and predominantly Muslim
countries. Lawyers say the heavier caseloads mean longer delays for clients to
get their day in court.

Yaser Tabbara is a Syrian-American lawyer in training with Heartland Alliance.
The group is a nonprofit organization in Chicago that gives legal help to
undocumented aliens.

Tabbara said he suspected that the INS was under pressure from the Justice
Department to detain Arab and Muslim aliens living in the Chicago area's
Arab-American strongholds.

He said the government was using the pretext of the INS enforcing immigration
violations as a way to round up and kick out Arabs and Muslims who may be seen
as posing a domestic security threat.

"If the INS is to apply the law and apprehend all people (non-Arabs and
non-Muslims as well), the INS wouldn't have enough space to detain those
numbers," Tabbara said. He often drives the 350 miles down Interstate 57 to
Ullin, where he conducts informational sessions with the jail's Arab and Muslim
inmates.

Justice Department spokesman Jorge Martinez called absurd the suggestion that
the INS was singling out Arabs and Muslims in enforcing immigration law, or
prosecuting aliens who commit crimes or overstay their visas.

"The Justice Department exists to uphold the laws of the United States of
America - not to engage in racial profiling," Martinez said.

Michael Heston, director of the district office of the INS in Kansas City (which
covers Missouri and Kansas), declined the Post-Dispatch's request under the
Freedom of Information Act to disclose the names and nationalities of more than
170 people detained in his jurisdiction in mid-July.

He cited the detainees' rights to privacy.

Immigration lawyers and constitutional rights experts claim that changes made to
immigration laws in 1996 have resulted in a big jump in the number of aliens
being detained because of alleged violations and crimes. As a result, sources
said, Arab and Muslim detainees now have to wait longer for their day in court.

Lawyers point to the change made in 1996 that broadened the term "aggravated
felony." The definition sets out some of the rules that trigger detention and
deportation orders. It has fueled soaring detention rates.

Because of the change, immigration lawyers say, the government can round up and
expel aliens convicted of felonies as well as those who have committed some
lesser crimes.

Of the 19,137 aliens who were detained by the INS last year, the Bureau of
Justice Statistics said that 14.5 percent of them had been convicted of property
offenses.

Jail boosts economy

Detaining more aliens has been a boon for Pulaski County and the private company
that runs Ullin's jail.

In the late 1990s, Pulaski County was designated as part of an economic
empowerment zone by the federal government as a way to help boost its economy.

That meant the people who built the Tri-County jail got incentives for putting
it in Pulaski County.

And Pulaski County got 50 new jobs to staff and guard the jail, and an increase
in demand for local services.

Both Walker and Gerry Wozniak, the jail's administrator, are proud of how they
run the Ullin jail. They said they strive to ensure that the inmates who are
slated for deportation are made as comfortable as possible during their stays
there.

Their cultural needs and customs are accommodated. For example, every Friday the
loft in the cellblock's library is reserved for group prayers among the resident
Muslims. Tri-County officials also said they offered training for inmates in
things like English language and computer courses.

"We're a kind of an innkeeper," Walker said. "We don't just warehouse inmates.
All we do is give them a chance to get their lives turned around."

LOAD-DATE: August 26, 2002

LANGUAGE: English

NOTES: Reporter Imran Vittachi; E-mail: ivittachi@post-dispatch.com

GRAPHIC: MAP, GRAPHIC GRAPHIC GRAPHICS
(1) Post-Dispatch Map - Ullin, Illinois
(2) Graphic , Chart - Federa immigration suspects
From 1996 to 2000, the number of people suspected of an immigrationoffense as
the most series charge they were facing more than doubled
(1985 to 2000)
2000 - 16,495
Bureau of Justice Statistics

                  Copyright 2002 St. Louis Post-Dispatch, Inc.


                              214 of 275 DOCUMENTS

                       St. Louis Post-Dispatch (Missouri)

                 February 3, 2002 Sunday Five Star Lift Edition

U.S., MEXICO MOVE FORWARD ON PUSH FOR IMMIGRATION ACCORD ;
 PRESIDENTS WILL MEET ON ISSUE NEXT MONTH

BYLINE: Karen Branch-Brioso Post-Dispatch Washington Bureau

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. A18

LENGTH: 839 words

DATELINE: WASHINGTON


Once-stalled talks on a U.S.-Mexico guest-worker accord gained significant
momentum last week with a White House announcement that the nations' presidents
will discuss the issue on March 22 - and public assurances from the immigration
chief.

"Some people believe that our talks with Mexico have died in the wake of Sept.
11. I assure you that this is not the case," Immigration and Naturalization
Service Commissioner James Ziglar told a crowd of immigration advocates and
lawyers gathered Friday at a Washington forum. "We should move forward - not
because it's in Mexico's interest, but because it's in the United States'
interest. These workers are important to the U.S. economy."

The terrorist attacks of Sept. 11, carried out by foreign visitors, put
temporary brakes on President George W. Bush's vow to bring "normalization" for
some of the millions of undocumented Mexican workers in the United States. But
the talks returned among mid-level administration officials Nov. 20, right after
a three-day visit to Mexico by House Minority Leader Richard Gephardt, D-Mo.,
and Senate Majority Leader Tom Daschle, D-S.D.

Although it hasn't publicly set a deadline, the administration appears on track
to produce an agreement this year. With intensively competitive elections this
fall that could shift control of the House and Senate to either party, the issue
has implications far beyond the economic. The significant growth in the Latino
vote may prove decisive. Such immigration pacts - long associated with Democrats
- have found a Republican ally in a president who hails from a border state.

"Bottom line, it's become a major battleground between the two parties," said
Sergio Bendixen, a consultant and pollster who specializes in the Hispanic
market. If the 2001 elections showed anything, he said, it is that "the Hispanic
electorate has become one of the major battlegrounds in American politics."

Mayoral elections in Houston, New York and Los Angeles showed the "fluidity" of
the Hispanic vote, Bendixen said, with large blocs voting for conservative
mayoral candidates in New York and Houston and liberals in L.A.: "Immigration
has proven to be the baseline issue for Hispanic voters. Immigration for
Hispanics is what civil rights is to blacks."

But the post-Sept. 11 strategy is distinct. Before Bush travels to Monterrey,
Mexico, to meet with Mexican President Vicente Fox, Homeland Security Director
Tom Ridge will go to Mexico City to establish border security. Ziglar, who
participated in the latest round of U.S.-Mexico talks Wednesday in Washington,
said the law-enforcement accord will go hand-in-hand with an immigration pact.

"If we could find a way to move a substantial portion of the current illegal
flow from Mexico into legal channels via some kind of temporary-worker program
and combine that with a new cooperative law enforcement arrangements with
Mexico, we could benefit the U.S. economy, we could substantially reduce illegal
immigration," Ziglar said. "And, it could enable the Border Patrol and other law
enforcement agencies to focus on the bad guys coming across - not on the flow of
people who just want to get into this country to work."

Democrats, too, have continued the call. In a Democratic response tailored to
Hispanic media, Gephardt answered Bush's Saturday radio address with a call "to
bring justice to our immigration laws - to reward those families who work hard,
pay taxes, and contribute to our economy and our culture."

Despite the efforts by both parties, plans for the accord will hit some
resistance by longtime proponents of immigration curbs who have been emboldened
in the post-Sept. 11 atmosphere. The Congressional Immigration Reform Caucus,
led by Rep. Tom Tancredo, R-Colo., has grown to 50 members from a pre-Sept. 11
membership of 15. Among the new members are Rep. Todd Akin, R-Town and Country,
and Rep. David Phelps, D-Eldorado.

Offering amnesty to workers employed illegally in the United States will be a
central sticking point on either side of the aisle, according to Steven
Camarota, research director for the Center for Immigration Studies, which favors
stricter immigration controls.

"If it's a straight guest-worker problem, the Democrats are going to balk, and
if you bring in the green cards (that provide legal access for non-citizens to
work anywhere), the Republicans will balk," said Camarota, who believes a
guest-worker program would only serve to lower wages for all unskilled workers -
U.S. citizens or no. "The bottom line here is Mexican immigration generally
makes poor people poorer without creating significant economic benefits."

Also at issue will be whether to extend any guest-worker program to other
undocumented workers, something Ziglar did not address. Working with Mexico, the
source for an estimated 3.9 million of the 8.7 million undocumented immigrants
living in the United States, is clearly his focus.

"We need to bring those folks into the light," Ziglar said, "to give them a
status that makes sense."

LOAD-DATE: February 4, 2002

LANGUAGE: English

NOTES: Reporter Karen Branch-Brioso:; E-mail: kbranch@post-dispatch.com; Phone:
202-298-6880

                  Copyright 2002 St. Louis Post-Dispatch, Inc.


                              215 of 275 DOCUMENTS

                       St. Louis Post-Dispatch (Missouri)

                   February 3, 2002 Sunday Three Star Edition

U.S., MEXICO MOVE FORWARD ON PUSH FOR IMMIGRATION PACT;
 PRESIDENTS WILL MEET ON ISSUE NEXT MONTH

BYLINE: Karen Branch-Brioso Post-Dispatch Washington Bureau

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. A4

LENGTH: 646 words

DATELINE: WASHINGTON


Once-stalled talks on a U.S.-Mexico guest-worker accord gained significant
momentum last week with a White House announcement that the nations' presidents
will discuss the issue on March 22 - and public assurances from the immigration
chief.

"Some people believe that our talks with Mexico have died in the wake of Sept.
11. I assure you that this is not the case," Immigration and Naturalization
Service Commissioner James Ziglar told a crowd of immigration advocates and
lawyers gathered Friday at a Washington forum. "We should move forward - not
because it's in Mexico's interest, but because it's in the United States'
interest. These workers are important to the U.S. economy."

The terrorist attacks of Sept. 11, carried out by foreign visitors, put
temporary brakes on Bush's vow to bring "normalization" for some of the millions
of undocumented Mexican workers in the United States. But the talks returned
among mid-level administration officials Nov. 20, right after a three-day visit
to Mexico by House Minority Leader Richard Gephardt, D-Mo., and Senate Majority
Leader Tom Daschle, D-S.D.

Although it hasn't publicly set a deadline, the administration appears on track
to produce an agreement this year. With intensively competitive elections this
fall that could shift control of the House and Senate to either party, the issue
has implications far beyond the economic. The significant growth in the Latino
vote may prove decisive. Such immigration pacts - long associated with Democrats
- have found a Republican ally in a president who hails from a border state.

"Bottom line, it's become a major battleground between the two parties," said
Sergio Bendixen, a consultant and pollster who specializes in the Hispanic
market. If the 2001 elections showed anything, he said, it is that "the Hispanic
electorate has become one of the major battlegrounds in American politics."

Mayoral elections in Houston, New York and Los Angeles showed the "fluidity" of
the Hispanic vote, Bendixen said, with large blocs voting for conservative
mayoral candidates in New York and Houston and liberals in L.A.: "Immigration
has proven to be the baseline issue for Hispanic voters. Immigration for
Hispanics is what civil rights is to blacks."

But the post-Sept. 11 strategy is distinct. Before Bush travels to Monterrey,
Mexico, to meet with Fox, Homeland Security Director Tom Ridge will go to Mexico
City to establish border security. Ziglar, who participated in the latest round
of U.S.-Mexico talks Wednesday in Washington, said the law-enforcement accord
will go hand-in-hand with an immigration pact.

"If we could find a way to move a substantial portion of the current illegal
flow from Mexico into legal channels via some kind of temporary-worker program
and combine that with a new cooperative law enforcement arrangements with
Mexico, we could benefit the U.S. economy, we could substantially reduce illegal
immigration," Ziglar said. "And, it could enable the Border Patrol and other law
enforcement agencies to focus on the bad guys coming across - not on the flow of
people who just want to get into this country to work."

Democrats, too, have continued the call. In a Democratic response tailored to
Hispanic media, Gephardt answered Bush's Saturday radio address with a call "to
bring justice to our immigration laws - to reward those families who work hard,
pay taxes, and contribute to our economy and our culture."

Despite the efforts by both parties, plans for the accord will hit some
resistance by longtime proponents of immigration curbs who have been emboldened
in the post-Sept. 11 atmosphere. The Congressional Immigration Reform Caucus,
led by Rep. Tom Tancredo, R-Colo., has grown to 50 members from a pre-Sept. 11
membership of 15. Among the new members are Rep. Todd Akin, R-Town and Country,
and Rep. David Phelps, D-Eldorado.

LOAD-DATE: February 3, 2002

LANGUAGE: English

NOTES: Reporter Karen Branch-Brioso:; E-mail: kbranch@post-dispatch.com; Phone:
202-298-6880

                  Copyright 2002 St. Louis Post-Dispatch, Inc.


                              216 of 275 DOCUMENTS

                       St. Louis Post-Dispatch (Missouri)

               October 4, 2000, Wednesday, FIVE STAR LIFT EDITION

SENATE APPROVES VISAS FOR MORE FOREIGN WORKERS;
LOW UNEMPLOYMENT RATES, DEMAND FOR HIGH-TECH WORKERS SPUR BILL

BYLINE: Bart Jansen; The Associated Press

SECTION: BUSINESS, Pg. C1

LENGTH: 790 words

DATELINE: WASHINGTONSKILLED LABOR POOL; SENATE VOTE; FOREIGN WORKERS; TECHNOLOGY
WORKERS VISA INCREASE; SENATE APPROVAL


High-tech companies could bring in nearly 600,000 new skilled foreign workers
over the next three years and also hire thousands more foreign students from
U.S. graduate schools under a bill the Senate passed Tuesday.

The 96-1 vote reflected broad election-year support for the technology industry,
which increasingly is flexing its political muscle through lobbying and campaign
donations to both parties.

With U.S. unemployment rates holding steady near a 30-year low, companies in
Silicon Valley and along other burgeoning high-tech corridors say they need the
additional workers with six-year H-1B visas to fuel their continuing rapid
growth.

"The short-term problem is how to fill the key positions immediately so that we
don't lose opportunities to foreign competitors or so that we don't force
American businesses to move offshore to where skilled workers might live," said
Sen. Spencer Abraham, R-Mich.

Despite the overwhelming Senate vote, obstacles remain in the House, where
Republican leaders have differed over measures aimed at assuring that the
skilled immigrants don't displace American workers.

A bill from Rep. Lamar Smith, R-Texas, that was approved by the Judiciary
Committee would require companies using visas to increase the median pay of
their U.S. workers in addition to establishing job projections for them. The
industry opposes Smith's bill.

The House Rules Committee chairman, Rep. David Dreier, R-Calif., who cosponsored
another visa bill, called the Senate version "dynamite" and said House leaders
would find a way to get it passed.

Industry advocates -- including Microsoft and Sun Microsystems, the U.S. Chamber
of Commerce and the National Association of Manufacturers -- praised the Senate
vote and called for the House to follow suit.

"If we want the United States to maintain its technological advantage, employers
must be allowed to hire the professionals they need," said Paula Collins,
director of government relations for Texas Instruments.

Technology businesses have more than doubled their political contributions
during the past two years, according to the independent Center for Responsive
Politics. The companies have given candidates $ 22.1 million since the start of
last year, with Democrats getting a little more than half of that.

Computer software and other high-tech companies contend that 300,000 jobs are
going unfilled for a lack of qualified workers. But labor unionsargue that the
companies want more immigrants to keep down wages of Americans holding the same
jobs.

While lifting the ceiling entirely on the H-1B visas, Smith's bill requires
employers to pay the immigrants at least $ 40,000 a year and not use them to
replace Americans on their payrolls. Companies also would have to document that
they have at least $ 250,000 in capital to participate in the program.

Sen. Ernest F. Hollings, D-S.C., cast the lone vote against the bill. Sens.
Dianne Feinstein, D-Calif.; Edward M. Kennedy, D-Mass., and Joseph Lieberman,
D-Conn., did not vote.

The Senate bill would allow the Immigration and Naturalization Service to issue
up to 195,000 new H-1B visas annually for the next three years to skilled
foreign workers. The bill also would exempt from the cap foreign graduates of
U.S. master's or doctoral programs or foreign workers at U.S. colleges,
providing another source of labor to high-tech companies.

Under present law, the government issued 115,000 H-1B visas during the fiscal
year that ended Saturday. With no new legislation, the ceiling would fall to
107,500 this year and to 65,000 next year.

===

Highlights of the Senate visas bill

The high-tech visa bill passed by the Senate would:

* Raise the number of new six-year H-1B visas that the Immigration and
Naturalization Service can issue annually to 195,000 for the next three years.

* Exempt from the cap foreigners who received at least a master's degree from a
U.S. college or university, or who work for a U.S. institution of higher
education.

* Extend a $ 500 fee for each visa. The fees are projected to generate $ 450
million over the three years to pay for 60,000 scholarships for U.S. students
and training programs for 150,000 U.S. workers.

* Allow extensions of a year or more for workers who have experienced delays in
INS processing.The extensions are to give the employers time to work on the
workers' behalf to obtain other kinds of visas.

* Make the Department of Labor responsible for investigating the program.
Fraudulently obtained visas would be returned to the available pool.The
Department of Labor would be responsible for investigating the program.
Fraudulently obtained visas would be returned to the pool available.

LOAD-DATE: November 2, 2000

LANGUAGE: English

NOTES: TECHNOLOGY & YOU

GRAPHIC: GRAPHIC AP Graphic/Chart - Filling the labor pool pool
 Source: U.S. Immigration and Naturalization Service
 The Senate passed a bill Tuesday that could increase the number of skilled
foreign workers allowed to enter the United States under six-year H-1B visas.
Here are the number of H-1B visas approved each year.
 Bar chart for 1992 through 2000 shows maximum number of visas allowed (in
thousands).


                  Copyright 2000 St. Louis Post-Dispatch, Inc.


                              217 of 275 DOCUMENTS

                       St. Louis Post-Dispatch (Missouri)

                 March 23, 2001, Friday, FIVE STAR LIFT EDITION

MEXICAN LEADER HAILS MIGRANT WORKERS IN CALIFORNIA;
VICENTE FOX PLEDGES TO WORK ON ISSUES AFFECTING THEIR LIVES

BYLINE: The Associated Press

SECTION: NEWS, Pg. A7

LENGTH: 437 words

DATELINE: FRESNO, CALIF.NORTH AMERICA; SOUTH OF THE BORDER; LABOR; HISPANIC
LATINAS; LATINOS; AGRICULTURE; FARMS; VINEYARDS


Often scorned at home and ignored in the United States, migrant laborers found
themselves celebrated as heroes Thursday by Mexican President Vicente Fox.

Nearly 3,000 people crowded into a convention hall to hear Fox, who praised
field workers and promised to work on issues that matter most in their lives.
About 2,000 more listened outside through loudspeakers.

Fox pledged to push Mexico's Congress to allow people to vote from outside the
country, to work with U.S. officials on a solution to long-s tanding disputes
over immigration and to make it easier for expatriates to return to Mexico.

"You are important, believe me, very important," Fox said, as cheers drowned out
his words.

Such talk is a change for Mexican leaders. Money sent home by exp atriates is
one of Mexico's largest sources of income. But past leaders did little to court
the men and women who fled their homes to work long hours and difficult jobs in
the United States.

Fox campaigned in California last May and views expatriates as a source of
financial and moral support for his right-of-center National Action Party and
its legislative agenda.

"You are permanent ambassadors of Mexican culture," he told the crowd. "You have
become a link between the United States and Mexico."

Fox pledged that Mexican consulates would do more to investigate civil rights
abuses against Mexicans in the United States, and he said he would devote more
money to rural Mexico so people might not have to leave.

Fox was expected to visit an elementary school in San Fernando with President
George W. Bush's wife, Laura, and attend a town hall meeting in Los Angeles with
Gov. Gray Davis.

Fox's visit brought out protesters for and against immigration. Some argued that
Fox wasn't doing enough to help the field workers, while others regarded the
workers as part of an "invasion by Mexico." But the majority of people at the
event in Fresno seemed enthusiastic, saying Fox's visit gave overdue attention
to immigrant laborers.

"Finally, we have a president who seems concerned with the plight of poor
people," said Jessie Oviedo, 56, who came to the United States from Mexico as a
child and worked as a farm laborer before eventually landing a government
clerical job.

"This is a big day for us," said Emilio Bolanos, 80, who showed up at the
convention center at 6 a.m. for a front-row seat. "President Fox represents the
future."

Fox's tour also represents the growing influence of Latinos in the nation's most
populous state. The governor noted that more than a third of California's 34
million residents are of Mexican descent.

LOAD-DATE: March 23, 2001

LANGUAGE: English

GRAPHIC: PHOTO PHOTO by THE ASSOCIATED PRESS - Mexican President Vicente Fox and
3-year-old Luis Piedad Ayala of Avenal, Calif., gesture to a crowd at a rally in
Fresno, Calif., on Thursday.

                  Copyright 2001 St. Louis Post-Dispatch, Inc.


                              218 of 275 DOCUMENTS

                       St. Louis Post-Dispatch (Missouri)

                  May 31, 2001 Thursday Five Star Lift Edition

IT TAKES THE WORLD TO TUCK THE LITTLE RESORT TOWN OF BRANSON IN FOR THE NIGHT;
 FOREIGNERS ARE RECRUITED TO SERVICE THE 22,000 HOTEL AND MOTEL ROOMS

BYLINE: Connie Farrow Associated Press Writer

SECTION: BUSINESS; Pg. C1

LENGTH: 632 words

DATELINE: BRANSON, MO.


Even with dips in the economy and a long string of layoffs, resorts and
restaurants across the country are desperate for workers to fill seasonal jobs
for relatively low wages.

Many are recruiting foreign workers, hoping to draw them to sparsely populated
towns like Branson that swell during tourist season.

"Branson has about 22,000 hotel, motel rooms, and the city has a population of
about 4,600 people," said Steve Marshall, manager of Chateau On The Lake. "If
you do the math, the entire population of Branson couldn't make up all the beds
that need to be made up."

According to the U.S. Labor Department, workers from Austria, Australia, Canada,
the Czech Republic, England, Indonesia, Jamaica, Mexico, Russia and elsewhere
are employed to fill the temporary needs of small resort towns each year.

And while the nation's unemployment rate jumped to a 2 1/2-year high of 4.5
percent last month, not enough U.S. citizens are willing to wash dishes and
clean bathrooms said John Young, who runs HELP, an employment company in
Goffston, N.H.

"These businesses are hurting for workers," Young said.

Many foreign workers are hired for jobs that otherwise would go unfilled and for
wages that often exceed the national minimum of $5.15 per hour by a couple of
dollars. They're allowed to stay only for a year to ensure they don't cost
Americans longer-term jobs or drive down wages.

The Labor Department also caps the number of foreign workers hired as relief
during peak and seasonal periods at 66,000 people each year.

The prospect of making $7.65 an hour and being able to visit the United States
was enough to entice Olive James to leave Montego Bay, Jamaica, to help clean
Chateau On The Lake's 301 guest rooms.

She and 23 other Jamaicans were hired through Young's company in May.

"I like the atmosphere," the 41-year-old James said as she removed towels from a
guest's room. "My dream is to know America."

To hire international workers, businesses must work through the Labor
Department's Alien Labor Certification Program. Employers must show they have
exhausted efforts to recruit qualified U.S. workers and offer the prevailing
wage for an occupation in an area.

The Immigration and Naturalization Service screens potential workers for disease
and criminal records. The workers are assigned to work at a specific business
and perform a specific job.

At Al's Oasis in Oacoma, S.D., general manager Steve Mueller plans to have 13
international workers washing dishes, cleaning bathrooms and doing other jobs at
the restaurant, gift shop and grocery by mid-June. Wages will average $6.75 an
hour.

Mueller looked abroad because too many positions were going unfilled at the
complex that is popular with hunters, anglers and others on their way to the
Missouri River.

"There aren't too many fathers and mothers who tell their sons and daughters, 'I
want you to grow up and be a dishwasher,'" Mueller said.

At the Sun Valley ski resort in the Idaho Rockies, about 600 workers are hired
each year from more than a dozen countries, personnel director Kim Hayes said.

"We don't recruit international workers," said Hayes. "Most find us through the
Internet and word of mouth."

Businesses find foreign employees to be reliable and hardworking, said David
Scibilia, a manager for Norseman Resorts in the seaside community of Ogunquit,
Maine.

Scibilia began recruiting Jamaican women three years ago to clean rooms at the
chain's Ogunquit River Plantation and Norseman Motor Inn. He also hired 10 men
this year to cook, help with grounds keeping and haul supplies.

"The town has about 900 residents, but it can have as many as 30,000 tourists on
any given day in peak season," Scibilia said. "We just couldn't get all the work
done without their help."

LOAD-DATE: May 31, 2001

LANGUAGE: English

GRAPHIC: PHOTO; THE ASSOCIATED PRESS Photos; (1) Luke Moss of Birmingham,
England, prepares a dish in the kitchen at Big Cedar Lodge in Branson, Mo. Moss
was recruited from an English culinary school to work 11 months in the three Big
Cedar restaurants. Even with dips in the economy and a long string of layoffs,
resorts and restaurants across the country are desperate for workers to fill
seasonal jobs. Many are recruiting foreign workers, hoping to draw them to
sparsely populated towns like Branson that swell during tourist season.; (2)
Jerri Nikka (right) checks Todd Atisdel into the Big Cedar Lodge in Branson, Mo.
Nikka is from Finland and is part of a group of international workers recruited
to fill jobs in the resort town. Resorts and restaurants across the country are
desperate for workers to fill seasonal jobs for relatively low wages.

TYPE: PROFILE; BRANSON, MISSOURI; FOREIGN WORKERS

                  Copyright 2001 St. Louis Post-Dispatch, Inc.


                              219 of 275 DOCUMENTS

                       St. Louis Post-Dispatch (Missouri)

                  July 5, 2001 Thursday Five Star Lift Edition

ASIANS ARE AMONG FASTEST GROWING RACIAL GROUPS IN THE ST. LOUIS AREA;
 THEY CAME TO FILL JOB VACANCIES, ESCAPE CONFLICTS

BYLINE: Phillip O'Connor Of The Post-Dispatch

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. A1

LENGTH: 1376 words


Credit people like Sundar Swaminathan for making Asians one of the fastest
growing racial groups in St. Louis over the past decade.

The native of India is among a wave of foreign workers who arrived in the area
in the past few years to help fill vacancies, mostly in the information
technology industry.

The surge in Indian workers helped increase the number of Asians in St. Louis
and St. Louis County by two-thirds, to 29,497, and by more than 50 percent in
the metropolitan area, according to figures from the 2000 Census.

While Asians still represent a small percentage of the area's total population,
less than 2 percent, nearly one out of every two Asians in Missouri lives in
either the city or county.

Despite their relatively small numbers, members of this diverse group --
including Chinese, Japanese, Koreans, Thais, Filipinos, Indians and a dozen
other ancestries -- are making their mark on the region.

From the blocks-long stretch of Chinese businesses along Olive Boulevard in
University City to the new Hindu Temple and Muslim mosque nestled among the
woods in west St. Louis County to the Sunday morning Vietnamese Mass at St.
Thomas Aquinas Catholic Church in south St. Louis, these newest immigrants are
planting family roots, subtly altering the architectural landscape and slowly
weaving their way into the intellectual, spiritual and cultural fabric of the
community.

"It's the surprising diversity that makes the numbers really rich," said Anna
Crosslin, head of the International Institute of St. Louis, a refugee relocation
agency. "We have as much diversity as you might find in Chicago. It's just that
we don't have the large numbers you might find in a city like that."

St. Louis long has had small numbers of Asians, especially doctors, college
professors, chemists and other scientists. Many arrived in the mid- to
late-1960s when changes in immigration laws increased immigration from the
Eastern Hemisphere.

"People were screened not only in terms of numbers, but who they were, what they
were bringing and what they could provide for the country," said Uma Segal, an
associate professor of social work at the University of Missouri at St. Louis
and author of a book on Asian immigration.

As a result, many of those who came decades ago were highly educated and highly
skilled professionals needed to fill gaps in the work force. Others arrived in
St. Louis as college or medical school students and stayed on after graduation.

"The pull of a job"

"A lot of it has to do with opportunities," said Kathy Steiner-Lang, director of
the Office for International Students and Scholars at Washington University,
which has about 800 students from Asia. "There is the pull of a job right in
front of them. If they went right home, it might be much harder to find a
position."

Attracted by the suburban schools and larger houses, many of those Asian workers
arriving earlier bypassed the city altogether or eventually moved to West
County.

Today, the largest concentrations of Asian homeowners can be found in
Chesterfield and Town and County. The largest concentrations of Asian renters
can be found in Maryland Heights, University City and in the Central West End
near the universities and hospitals.

"Part of the American dream is to have the house and the white picket fence in
the suburbs," Segal said. "As people established themselves, they moved out from
being renters in inner cities because that's not the perception of being
established in the United States."

The boom in high-tech industries during the 1990s drew another wave of well-paid
workers looking for the amenities West County offers.

Like many of the newest immigrants, Swaminathan settled in Chesterfield. The
lure of working in the United States is powerful, he said. In India, recent
college graduates and young professionals face stiff competition for few jobs.
The average salary in the computer field in India is about $300 a month, he
said. Here, an information technology worker can expect a starting annual salary
of about $45,000 and supervisors can earn up to around $130,000.

Economic opportunity isn't the only factor fueling the surge in Asian
population. Global conflict also plays a role.

The number of Vietnamese living in St. Louis during the decade more than tripled
to 3,300. American-born children of refugees resettled to the city during the
1980s account for much of that growth, Crosslin said.

Many of those residents have settled in neighborhoods along South Grand
Boulevard near Gravois Avenue, not far from the International Institute.

"There's not so much a recognizable neighborhood, but there are organizations in
the city that form a sense of community for that population and keep them
attracted to living here," Crosslin said.

Chinese immigration to St. Louis during the decade may have come, in part, as a
result of the crushing of the 1989 Tiananmen Square protests, said Wen Hwang,
director of the St. Louis Chinese Journal, a weekly Chinese-language
publication.

"After that, I think a lot of people applied for asylum," Hwang said. "They
think maybe the (Chinese) government would do something to them."

The Journal's office is located along the stretch of Olive Boulevard in
University City that is home to more than a dozen Chinese businesses and the
Chinese Culture Center. Yet, most Chinese live in West County, where, Hwang
said, they are drawn by the strong reputation of the schools. She said more than
a half-dozen Chinese churches and Buddhist temples now serve Chinese residents.

"Most of the Chinese are having their children here," Hwang said. "That's a sign
the community is pretty stable."

In Maryland Heights, 7 percent of the population is Asian, the highest
percentage of any city with more than 2,500 residents.

Residents say the city's growing Indian population is visible in the parks and
on the streets especially in the southern part of Maryland Heights.

Cricket players occasionally occupy the open expanses near Dorsett and McKelvey
roads. On weekday mornings, bus stops in the area are often crowded with Indians
on their way to work in Clayton or downtown St. Louis. The area is now home to
an Indian restaurant and stores offering Indian compact discs, movies and hot
spicy pickles from home.

The city recently received a request to sponsor a permanent cricket field.

"There's a real sense the community is becoming more diverse," said Maryland
Heights City Administrator Mark Levin. "With that diversity comes all ranges of
new opportunities."

Making inroads

St. Louis Asians are only now beginning to make cultural and social inroads into
the majority population, Segal said. Most first-generation immigrants tend to
interact only with others like themselves, she said.

"The first generation was worried about making a new life for themselves and
their family, earning a living and preserving their culture," Segal said.

But those behaviors and traditions often change in subsequent generations.

"The children of the immigrants of the 1960s are just as comfortable with the
majority society, if not more comfortable, than they are with their own ethnic
group," Segal said.

Segal said some Asian parents refer to this second generation as bananas -
yellow on the outside but white on the inside.

"That's a real concern for the first generation because they see their children
losing the values and traditions of the first generation or they never get
instilled," she said.

While Asians are often perceived as being well-paid professionals, they
represent only part of the community, Segal said.

"The other is the whole group that comes in as the family streams of these
people who are not established, who are not as well-educated and who are more
dependent," Segal said.

They can include siblings or other extended family members. In some cases, those
family members struggle financially. Some live in poverty but may not readily
come to the attention of the public or social workers, she said.

"There's a tendency among Asians not to use services outside their own
community," Segal said. "There's a whole face-saving tradition." The number of
Asians here who are struggling is small, "but it exists and it's growing," she
said.

LOAD-DATE: July 24, 2001

LANGUAGE: English

SERIES: CENSUS 2000: WHO WE ARE; St. Louis and St. Louis County Asian population

NOTES: CENSUS 2000; * Note: The THREE STAR edition ran this as the last
paragraph:; . . . The number of Asians here who are struggling is small, "but it
exists and it's growing," she said. "They can be potential problems down the
road."

GRAPHIC: PHOTO, GRAPHIC; (3) 2001 Graphic FILED: Census tms; (1) Color Photo by
KEVIN MANNING /POST-DISPATCH - Chandersekar, an Indian construction worker,
stretches a tarp around a facade at the Hindu Temple of St. Louis, 725 Weidman
Road in west St. Louis County. Indian immigrants say higher salaries and more
job opportunities are drawing them to the United States.; ; (2) Graphic/Chart -
CENSUS 2000; Total Asian population;
St. Louis County    St. Louis;1990   14,022        1990  3,670;2000  22,606
        2000  6,891;; (3) Post-Dispatch Graphic/Chart - A growing Asian
population; Source: U.S. Census Bureau; Top six Asian nationalities in St. Louis
County; Pct. change;
1980     1990    2000    1990-2000;Chinese    1,894   3,952   6,875
+74;Indian     1,867   3,005   6,197      +106;Vietnamese   577      821   1,557

       +90;Filipino   1,486   1,806   2,276        +26;Japanese     830   1,208
   1,137        -6;Korean     1,146    1,813   2,348       +30;; Top six Asian
nationalities in St. Louis; ; Pct. change;
1980    1990    2000    1990-2000;Chinese      524      785   1,038
+32;Indian       257     366     845       +131;Vietnamese   183     999   3,319

      +232;Filipino     287      403     454       +13;Japanese     167     227
     217        -4;Korean        154     220     289       +31

TYPE: PROFILE; CENSUS 2000; ASIAN POPULATION; ST. LOUIS AND ST. LOUIS COUNTY

                  Copyright 2001 St. Louis Post-Dispatch, Inc.


                              220 of 275 DOCUMENTS

                       St. Louis Post-Dispatch (Missouri)

                October 29, 2000, Sunday, FIVE STAR LIFT EDITION

CLINTON SIGNS BILL BY GOP LAWMAKER TARGETING VIOLENCE AGAINST WOMEN

BYLINE: From News Services

SECTION: NEWS, Pg. A6

LENGTH: 441 words

DATELINE: WASHINGTONWOMEN'S RIGHTS; LEGISLATION; CLINTON ADMINISTRATION


President Bill Clinton signed legislation reinforcing the Violence Against Women
Act by covering women abused by their boyfriends, helping battered immigrant
women and attacking international traffic in human beings.

The new law, Clinton said in his weekly radio address Saturday, is "the most
significant step we've ever taken to secure the health and safety of women at
home and around the world."

Domestic violence is the No. 1 health risk for women between the ages of 15 and
44, Clinton said. Almost one-third of women killed in the United States are
victims of husbands, ex-husbands or boyfriends.

"Every 12 seconds, another woman is beaten," he said. "That's nearly 900,000
victims every year."

The anti-violence law also contains a provision to help stop what Clinton called
the "insidious global practice" of trafficking in human beings.

"Every year, 1 million or more women, children and men are forced or tricked
into lives of utter misery - into prostitution, sweatshop work, domestic or farm
labor or debt bondage," he said. "This is slavery, plain and simple."

He said thousands of people were brought to the United States each year for some
of the purposes that are banned by the anti-violence law.

Sex trafficking is said to be a top source of income for organized crime. The
law provides for punishment of up to life imprisonment for traffickers, makes
assistance available for victims who wish to sue their captors, provides shelter
and authorizes changes in immigration laws to allow relief from rapid
deportation so human smuggling cases can be prosecuted.

It also increases U.S. assistance to other countries to help them track down and
punish offenders and provides sanctions for nations that refuse to act against
the practice.

"Domestic violence is a criminal activity," Clinton said. "It devastates its
victims and affects us all. It increases health costs, keeps people from showing
up to work, prevents them from performing at their best."

Rep. Chris Smith, R-N.J., who sponsored the bill, said the measure was
tantamount to declaring "war on those who prey on women."

Sex trafficking is believed to involve over 1 million women and young girls
worldwide, an estimated 50,000 of whom are forced into prostitution or other
forms of slave labor in the United States alone.

"Let those who rape, batter, exploit, and abuse women and girls be put on notice
- we're coming after you to put you in jail," Smith said.

The broad legislation also contains a provision to make it easier for former
hostages and other victims of terror to collect compensation from nations that
sponsor such acts.

LOAD-DATE: November 2, 2000

LANGUAGE: English

                  Copyright 2000 St. Louis Post-Dispatch, Inc.


                              221 of 275 DOCUMENTS

                       St. Louis Post-Dispatch (Missouri)

                March 24, 2001, Saturday, FIVE STAR LIFT EDITION

NATION & WORLD BRIEFS

BYLINE: From News ServicesNATIONAL; CURRENT NEWS

SECTION: NEWS, Pg. 2

LENGTH: 1368 words



NATION

MIAMI

Wife of alleged spy for Cuba is awarded millions

A woman who sued Cuba after she unwittingly married an alleged Cuban spy was
awarded $ 20 million in punitive damages Friday.

Invoking a federal anti-terrorism law, Circuit Judge Alan Postman ordered the
amount paid to Ana Margarita Martinez in addition to the $ 7.1 million in
compensatory damages he awarded to her earlier this month.

Martinez, 40, will try to collect the money from Cuban assets frozen in the
United States. The Anti-Terrorism and Effective Death Penalty Act of 1996 allows
courts to compensate victims of terrorism.

Martinez sued in 1999, claiming she had been used as a political pawn by Juan
Pablo Roque, her husband, and by his employers, the Cuban government.

Roque, a former Cuban Air Force major, staged a defection in 1992 by swimming
from Cuba to the U.S. naval base at Guantanamo Bay in Cuba. Once in Miami, he
romanced and married Martinez as part of his cover, prosecutors say. Later,
Roque slipped out of Miami and returned to Cuba.

DETROIT

12 are charged with smuggling illegal aliens

Twelve people have been indicted on charges of smuggling more than 200 South
Koreans and Chinese into the United States via Canada.

Seven people from Canada and five from the United States were charged with
conspiracy to smuggle aliens and related charges, authorities said Friday.

Authorities believe the smugglers took the immigrants across the U.S.-Canada
border in vans or small boats. Sometimes as many as 27 South Koreans and Chinese
stayed at a suburban Detroit apartment, U.S. Attorney Saul Green said. Green
said authorities were arresting suspects Friday. It was not clear how many were
in custody.

LITTLE ROCK, Ark.

Judge throws out  anti-sodomy measure

A judge threw out Arkansas' anti-sodomy law Friday, saying it unfairly singles
out homosexuals for prosecution.

No one has been prosecuted under the 1977 law. But seven homosexuals brought a
lawsuit challenging the law, saying they feared being charged and convicted and
losing their jobs or professional licenses.

Pulaski County Circuit Judge David Bogard said the Arkansas Legislature erred
when it barred consensual, noncommercial sexual activities between pe ople of
the same sex while permitting the same activities among heterosexuals.

The Arkansas law carried a $ 1,000 fine and up to a year in jail. The state
argued that the government had an interest in criminalizing behavior that most
of its citizens would find morally inappropriate, but Bogard disagreed.

Texas, Oklahoma and Kansas are the only other states that outlaw sodomy between
same-sex partners.

WASHINGTON

Deadline is set for illegal immigrants

Eligible illegal immigrants wanting to attain legal resident status by paying a
fine and staying in the country must apply for immigrant visas by April 30,
officials said Friday.

The Immigration and Naturalization Service released official rules for a law
signed in December by President Bill Clinton. The law has made it easier for
certain illegal immigrants to become legal by allowing them to apply in the
United States.

Previously, immigrants had to return to their home countries to apply. That
risked a 10-year ban from returning if they were found to have been in the
United States illegally.

WORLD

INDONESIA

Police crack down on latest Borneo violence

An outbreak of violence in a town on Borneo island claimed at least 12 lives and
prompted police to send in hundreds of reinforcements, authorities said Friday.

Gangs of native Dayaks slaughtered more than 450 people in a campaign to drive
settlers from Madura island from the Indonesian half of Borneo earlier this
year. More than 70,000 migrants have fled the region since the killings began
Feb. 18.

Police said 600 officers were sent to the town of Kualakapuas in Central
Kalimantan province, 540 miles northeast of Jakarta, to halt attacks by Dayaks.
Police and soldiers were ordered to shoot Dayak rioters on sight. About 700
Madurans took refuge in the town's sports stadium after fleeing their homes.

Dayak natives on Borneo, who resent competition from settlers for land and jobs,
have vowed to kill any Madurese who stay or try to return.

GUATEMALA

Prosecutors target military boss in bishop's slaying

Prosecutors say a former military intelligence chief ordered the 1998 slaying of
a bishop who headed the human rights office of Guatemala's Roman Catholic
Church.

On the first full day of trial for five people accused of killing Bishop Juan
Gerardi, the three-judge panel listened as a court officer began painstakingly
reading hundreds of pages of indictments outlining the prosecution case.

Gerardi, 75, was bludgeoned to death in the garage of his seminary two days
after he issued a report implicating the military in 90 percent of the 200,000
deaths during Guatemala's 36-year civil war.

The indictment accuses former military intelligence chief Disrael Lima of
ordering and orchestrating the killing because he was afraid Gerardi would
testify against him in the future.

Lima and his son, active army Capt. Byron Lima, are charged with murder, as are
the Rev. Mario Orantes, Gerardi's assistant, and Jose Obdulio Villanueva, a
former member of the presidential security team. Seminary cook Margarita Lopez
is charged as an accessory.

GUYANA

Governing party wins 3rd consecutive term

Guyana's governing party has won a third consecutive term, according to official
results released Friday, keeping a majority in parliament. However, the racially
charged elections prompted accusations of fraud and touched off riots.

The results of Monday's vote return to power President Bharrat Jagdeo and his
People's Progressive Party, which is largely backed by Guyanese of East Indian
descent.

The announcement comes a day after police fired tear gas and pellets at
stone-throwing black protesters in Georgetown who said their votes weren't
counted. At least two were injured.

Elections in the English-speaking South American country often have been
disputed and volatile. Citizens of African descent - about 39 percent of the
population - historically vote for the opposition People's National Congress,
while the 47 percent of East Indian ancestry usually back the governing party.

SWITZERLAND

Law is passed to legalize abortion until 12th week

Years after most of Europe legalized abortion, the Swiss parliament voted Friday
to permit women to end pregnancy until the 12th week.

But a key political party immediately announced it would force a national
referendum on the issue, delaying for years a decision on when - or whether -
the law will take effect.

Closing its spring session Friday, the National Council - parliament's larger
chamber - opted by 107 to 69 votes to legalize abortion without obliging women
first to seek neutral advice at a state-approved center. The other house, the
Council of States, approved the proposal 22-20.

Although abortion is legal in most European countries, the Swiss - who only gave
women the right to vote in 1971 - have a long history of taking their time in
trying to balance strong views in legislation. Although technically illegal,
abortion is widely practiced in Switzerland.

The centrist Christian People's Party - a member of the four-party coalition
government - said it would collect the necessary 100,000 signatures to require a
referendum on the law.

BRITAIN

Region gets record amount of rainfall

The skies over England and Wales poured down more rain in the past 12 months
than in any year on record, the government meteorological office said Friday.

Average rainfall was 51 inches between April 1, 2000, and March 20, 2001, the
most since meteorologists began keeping track in 1766. The previous record of 50
inches of rain was set in 1872. The heavy rains have caused occasional floods
and landslides.

The country also set records for the wettest April, at 5.6 inches, and wettest
fall season, with 18 inches of rain.

Rainfall in Scotland and Northern Ireland was excluded because records there do
not go back as far.

LOAD-DATE: March 24, 2001

LANGUAGE: English

NOTES: Nation/World

GRAPHIC: PHOTO Photo by the ASSOCIATED PRESS -  Gabriel Levinson, 5, of Salinas,
Kan., sits Friday on the lap of her grandfather, state Rep. Bill Levinson,
D-Junction City, at his desk in the Kansas House in Topeka. She was on spring
break from kindergarten.

TYPE: Nation/World Briefs Column

                  Copyright 2001 St. Louis Post-Dispatch, Inc.


                              222 of 275 DOCUMENTS

                       St. Louis Post-Dispatch (Missouri)

                  March 24, 2001, Saturday, THREE STAR EDITION

NATION & WORLD BRIEFS

BYLINE: From News ServicesLAWSUIT; ESPIONAGE; SMUGGLING; U.S. - CANADIAN; BORDER
HOMOSEXUALS; ARKANSAS; IMMIGRANTS; CITIZENSHIP; ASIA; CENTRAL AMERICA; MURDER
SUSPECT; AFRICA; ELECTION; RESULT; EUROPE ABORTION LAW; GREAT BRITAIN;
PRECIPITATION

SECTION: NEWS, Pg. 2

LENGTH: 1367 words



NATION

MIAMI

Judge awards millions to wife of Cuban spy

A woman who sued Cuba after she unwittingly married an alleged Cuban spy was
awarded $ 20 million in punitive damages Friday.

Invoking a federal anti-terrorism law, Circuit Judge Alan Postman ordered the
amount paid to Ana Margarita Martinez in addition to the $ 7.1 million in
compensatory damages he awarded to her earlier this month.

Martinez, 40, will try to collect the money from Cuban assets frozen in the
United States. The Anti-Terrorism and Effective Death Penalty Act of 1996 allows
courts to compensate victims of terrorism.

Martinez sued in 1999, claiming she had been used as a political pawn by Juan
Pablo Roque, her husband, and by his employers, the Cuban government.

Roque, a former Cuban Air Force major, staged a defection in 1992 by swimming
from Cuba to the U.S. naval base at Guantanamo Bay in Cuba. Once in Miami, he
romanced and married Martinez as part of his cover, prosecutors say. Later,
Roque slipped out of Miami and returned to Cuba.

DETROIT

12 are charged with smuggling illegal aliens

Twelve people have been indicted on charges of smuggling more than 200 South
Koreans and Chinese into the United States via Canada.

Seven people from Canada and five from the United States were charged with
conspiracy to smuggle aliens and related charges, authorities said Friday.

Authorities believe the smugglers took the immigrants across the U.S.-Canada
border in vans or small boats. Sometimes as many as 27 South Koreans and Chinese
stayed at a suburban Detroit apartment, U.S. Attorney Saul Green said. Green
said authorities were arresting suspects Friday. It was not clear how many were
in custody.

LITTLE ROCK, Ark.

Judge throws out anti-sodomy measure

A judge threw out Arkansas' anti-sodomy law Friday, saying it unfairly singles
out homosexuals for prosecution.

No one has been prosecuted under the 1977 law. But seven homosexuals brought a
lawsuit challenging the law, saying they feared being charged and convicted and
losing their jobs or professional licenses.

Pulaski County Circuit Judge David Bogard said the Arkansas Legislature erred
when it barred consensual, noncommercial sexual activities between people of the
same sex while permitting the same activities among heterosexuals.

The Arkansas law carried a $ 1,000 fine and up to a year in jail. The state
argued that the government had an interest in criminalizing behavior that most
of its citizens would find morally inappropriate, but Bogard disagreed.

Texas, Oklahoma and Kansas are the only other states that outlaw sodomy between
same-sex partners.

WASHINGTON

Deadline is set for illegal immigrants

Eligible illegal immigrants wanting to attain legal resident status by paying a
fine and staying in the country must apply for immigrant visas by April 30,
officials said Friday.

The Immigration and Naturalization Service released official rules for a law
signed in December by President Bill Clinton. The law has made it easier for
certain illegal immigrants to become legal by allowing them to apply in the
United States.

Previously, immigrants had to return to their home countries to apply. That
risked a 10-year ban from returning if they were found to have been in the
United States illegally.

WORLD

INDONESIA

Police crack down on latest Borneo violence

An outbreak of violence in a town on Borneo island claimed at least 12 lives and
prompted police to send in hundreds of reinforcements, authorities said Friday.

Gangs of native Dayaks slaughtered more than 450 people in a campaign to drive
settlers from Madura island from the Indonesian half of Borneo earlier this
year. More than 70,000 migrants have fled the region since the killings began
Feb. 18.

Police said 600 officers were sent to the town of Kualakapuas in Central
Kalimantan province, 540 miles northeast of Jakarta, to halt attacks by Dayaks.
Police and soldiers were ordered to shoot Dayak rioters on sight. About 700
Madurans took refuge in the town's sports stadium after fleeing their homes.

Dayak natives on Borneo, who resent competition from settlers for land and jobs,
have vowed to kill any Madurese who stay or try to return.

GUATEMALA

Prosecutor targets military boss in bishop's slaying

Prosecutors say a former military intelligence chief ordered the 1998 slaying of
a bishop who headed the human rights office of Guatemala's Roman Catholic
Church.

On the first full day of trial for five people accused of killing Bishop Juan
Gerardi, the three-judge panel listened as a court officer began painstakingly
reading hundreds of pages of indictments outlining the prosecution case.

Gerardi, 75, was bludgeoned to death in the garage of his seminary two days
after he issued a report implicating the military in 90 percent of the 200,000
deaths during Guatemala's 36-year civil war.

The indictment accuses former military intelligence chief Disrael Lima of
ordering and orchestrating the killing because he was afraid Gerardi would
testify against him in the future.

Lima and his son, active army Capt. Byron Lima, are charged with murder, as are
the Rev. Mario Orantes, Gerardi's assistant, and Jose Obdulio Villanueva, a
former member of the presidential security team. Seminary cook Margarita Lopez
is charged as an accessory.

GUYANA

Governing party wins 3rd consecutive term

Guyana's governing party has won a third consecutive term, according to official
results released Friday, keeping a majority in parliament. However, the racially
charged elections prompted accusations of fraud and touched off riots.

The results of Monday's vote return to power President Bharrat Jagdeo and his
People's Progressive Party, which is largely backed by Guyanese of East Indian
descent.

The announcement comes a day after police fired tear gas and pellets at
stone-throwing black protesters in Georgetown who said their votes weren't
counted. At least two were injured.

Elections in the English-speaking South American country often have been
disputed and volatile. Citizens of African descent - about 39 percent of the
population - historically vote for the opposition People's National Congress,
while the 47 percent of East Indian ancestry usually back the governing party.

SWITZERLAND

Law is passed to legalize abortion until 12th week

Years after most of Europe legalized abortion, the Swiss parliament voted Friday
to permit women to end pregnancy until the 12th week.

But a key political party immediately announced it would force a national
referendum on the issue, delaying for years a decision on when - or whether -
the law will take effect.

Closing its spring session Friday, the National Council - parliament's larger
chamber - opted by 107 to 69 votes to legalize abortion without obliging women
first to seek neutral advice at a state-approved center. The other house, the
Council of States, approved the proposal 22-20.

Although abortion is legal in most European countries, the Swiss - who only gave
women the right to vote in 1971 - have a long history of taking their time in
trying to balance strong views in legislation. Although technically illegal,
abortion is widely practiced in Switzerland.

The centrist Christian People's Party - a member of the four-party coalition
government - said it would collect the necessary 100,000 signatures to require a
referendum on the law.

BRITAIN

Region gets record amount of rainfall

The skies over England and Wales poured down more rain in the past 12 months
than in any year on record, the government meteorological office said Friday.

Average rainfall was 51 inches between April 1, 2000, and March 20, 2001, the
most since meteorologists began keeping track in 1766. The previous record of 50
inches of rain was set in 1872. The heavy rains have caused occasional floods
and landslides.

The country also set records for the wettest April, at 5.6 inches, and wettest
fall season, with 18 inches of rain.

Rainfall in Scotland and Northern Ireland was excluded because records there do
not go back as far.

LOAD-DATE: March 24, 2001

LANGUAGE: English

NOTES: NATION/WORLD

GRAPHIC: PHOTO Photo by THE ASSOCIATED PRESS - Gabriel Levinson, 5, of Salinas,
Kan., sits Friday on the lap of her grandfather, state Rep. Bill Levinson,
D-Junction City, at his desk in the Kansas House in Topeka. She was on spring
break from kindergarten.

TYPE: Nation/World Briefs Column

                  Copyright 2001 St. Louis Post-Dispatch, Inc.


                              223 of 275 DOCUMENTS

                       St. Louis Post-Dispatch (Missouri)

                   July 19, 2001 Thursday Three Star Edition

NATION

BYLINE: From News Services

SECTION: NEWS; Nation Briefs Column; Pg. A11

LENGTH: 607 words


EAST

WASHINGTON

Report issues warning of possible terrorist actions

Strong indications of possible imminent terrorist actions against the United
States in the Arabian Peninsula were reported Wednesday by the State Department.

Saudi Arabia and Kuwait were the focus of attention, a senior official said, but
he could not rule out the other five countries on the peninsula. The warning
followed a communications intercept, said the official, who asked not to be
identified.

The warning made no direct reference to Osama bin Laden, the Saudi exile
terrorist. But the official noted that the new warning is a supplement - not a
replacement - for a June 22 warning in which there was a specific reference to
bin Laden and the potential threat from extremist groups associated with him.

WASHINGTON

Ashcroft orders crackdown on human trafficking

Attorney General John Ashcroft directed law officers Wednesday to protect people
forced to work for little or no pay in U.S. factories, farms, strip clubs,
brothels and other businesses.

In an effort to deter forced immigrant labor, prosecutors will pursue the
captors using a law Congress passed last year that allows sentences of up to
life in prison for human trafficking and provides restitution to victims,
Ashcroft said.

A report released by the State Department last week found that 23 countries are
not doing enough to combat international trafficking in humans. The report said
the United States is a transit and destination point, with up to 50,000 people
brought into the country each year. Ashcroft noted recent cases involving farm
workers in Florida, factory employees in American Samoa and strip club dancers
in Alaska.

WASHINGTON

Mosquito-borne virus is detected in dead crow

Health officials in the nation's capital said Wednesday that the West Nile Virus
has been detected in a bird in one of the city's residential neighborhoods.

The mosquito-borne virus can cause potentially fatal influenza-like symptoms in
people. It was detected in a crow's carcass found July 10 and submitted for
testing to a regional laboratory in Maryland.

The infected crow was discovered in the same area where another infected bird
was found last year. Officials have placed traps to collect adult mosquitos in
the area, about four miles northeast of the U.S. Capitol. The disease has not
claimed any human lives in the district. There were a total of 78 cases and
eight deaths reported nationally between 1999 and 2001.

MIDWEST

CINCINNATI

Two die, one is missing as a result of storms

Thunderstorms dumped up to 6 inches of rain on suburban Loveland, killing a man
and his daughter and knocking out power to 26,000 customers.

The deluge also swept away a 16-year-old girl who was missing and believed dead
Wednesday, authorities said. She was among four people in a sport utility
vehicle that was caught by high water. The others got out safely but she tumbled
into deep water and was washed under a bridge.

Authorities said the bodies of Ronald Davenport, 48, and his 21-year-old
daughter, Anna, were found in seven feet of water after a nearby creek knocked
in part of a wall and flooded their basement late Tuesday.

SOUTH

BUFFALO, Texas

Oil well explosion kills two, injures five

An oil well exploded Wednesday, killing two people and injuring five others,
authorities said.

Tela Mange, a spokeswoman for the Department of Public Safety, said the cause of
the accident was under investigation. The victims of the explosion were not
identified and the well was not on fire.

Buffalo is a central Texas town of about 2,000 people and is 100 miles southeast
of Dallas.

LOAD-DATE: July 19, 2001

LANGUAGE: English

NOTES: NATION & WORLD

                  Copyright 2001 St. Louis Post-Dispatch, Inc.


                              224 of 275 DOCUMENTS

                       St. Louis Post-Dispatch (Missouri)

                 January 7, 2002 Monday Five Star Lift Edition

FELONS SHOULDN'T BE ABLE TO EVADE DEPORTATION

BYLINE: Michelle Malkin Copyright Creators Syndicate Inc.

SECTION: EDITORIAL; Michelle Malkin Column; Pg. B9

LENGTH: 620 words

DATELINE: WASHINGTON


IMMIGRATION

If homeland defense means anything, it means being able to dictate who can and
cannot call our country home. The case of Melanie Jeanbeaucejour shows that
America does not yet have the guts or willpower to swiftly throw out unwelcome
guests.

Jeanbeaucejour is an immigrant nanny from Haiti. She was convicted of killing an
18-month-old baby in upstate New York. A U.S. immigration judge ordered her
deported back to her native land more than two years ago. But thanks to a trio
of pro-alien, Janet Reno-installed bureaucrats, Jeanbeaucejour continues to
enjoy the sweet life in America.

Washington Times reporter Jerry Seper exposed Jeanbeaucejour's outrageous case
in August. She was convicted of seconddegree manslaughter in 1995 after
admitting that she beat and shook an 18-month-old baby under her care until he
stopped breathing. "I hit him two or three times with my fist on the top of his
head. I did this to stop him from crying. It did not work," she told Monroe
County, N.Y., investigators. "I do not know how long I shook the baby, but I did
not stop until he was unconscious," her po lice statement said, according to the
Times.

One official told the Times he had "never seen such a brutal beating involving a
baby."

As punishment for the taking of an innocent child's life, Jeanbeaucejour
received a measly six-year sentence. She served just two years. After her
release, the U.S. Immigration and Naturalization Service argued that as a
convicted criminal alien resident, Jeanbeaucejour should be returned to her
native Haiti. INS won a deportation order from U.S. immigration judge Phillip
Montante.

But the deportation process is an endless litigious morass designed to keep
unwanted aliens in this country as long as possible. Jeanbeaucejour conjured up
a sob story about the "extreme hardship" her husband and five children would
suffer if she were deported. So much for the emotional hardship this killer
nanny caused the family of the toddler she violently beat to death. Never mind
the danger she poses to other American babies.

Jeanbeaucejour successfully lobbied the Board of Immigration Appeals, an obscure
federal bureaucracy of judges who are independent of INS and have the power to
overturn deportation orders. A panel of three concluded that Jeanbeaucejour's
crime "does not constitute a crime of violence" and is not an aggravated felony
subject to deportation guidelines.

The judges who support Jeanbeaucejour -- Cecilia Espenoza, Lory D. Rosenberg and
Gustavo Villageliu -- were all appointed to the Board of Immigration Appeals by
Clinton Attorney General Janet Reno. Legal analyst Beverley Lumpkin says that
Espenoza and Rosenberg are known as "reflexive advocates for aliens who just
don't care about the facts of a case."

The INS appealed the murderer-friendly trio's ruling to the full board last
summer. President George W. Bush recently appointed two new members, but the
rest of the appellate body and its managing office, the Executive Office for
Immigration Review, consist of like-minded immigration activists and Department
of Justice careerists. For four months, the appeal gathered dust.

Attorney General John Ashcroft is now reportedly reviewing the Jeanbeaucejour
case. But if Ashcroft punts it back to the appeals board, its final decision can
then be appealed to the federal courts.

Meanwhile, Jeanbeaucejour breathes free and easy in our homeland.

Any attempt at immigration reform will fail if the secretive, superfluous and
soft-on-crime Board of Immigration Appeals is neglected. The board should be
swept clean of Reno-Clinton activists -- or better yet, abolished. It's time to
stop putting alien rights over American lives.

LOAD-DATE: January 8, 2002

LANGUAGE: English

NOTES: COMMENTARY; cre8ors@aol.com

                  Copyright 2002 St. Louis Post-Dispatch, Inc.


                              225 of 275 DOCUMENTS

                       St. Louis Post-Dispatch (Missouri)

                 January 13, 2002 Sunday Five Star Lift Edition

SO NEAR TO FREEDOM;
 THE BAN ON REFUGEE TRAVEL

BYLINE: Phillip O'Connor Of The Post-Dispatch

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. A1

LENGTH: 2361 words

DATELINE: QUETTA, PAKISTAN


* Aneesa Popal and her children have been on the run since 1996, when the
Taliban killed her husband. In June, the United States granted them refugee
status, but they never made it here.

Pierre King arrived at a run-down bus station here before dawn on Sept. 12 with
news he dreaded delivering.

As an operations officer for the International Organization for Migration, King
had traveled from Islamabad to help a desperate group of 100 Afghan refugee
families board buses for a 13-hour drive south to the airport in Karachi. There,
they were to take a flight that would mark a chance to begin life anew, where
they could live in peace.

Among those who gathered that morning were about half of a group of 44 people,
most of them widows with young children, bound for St. Louis. The rest had
assembled in Islamabad.

They'd endured war, the death of loved ones, beatings, harrowing escapes and a
harsh, inhumane existence.

Now, only a bus ride and a flight stood between them and freedom.

But just hours before, King had watched the footage of one jumbo jet and then
another slamming into the soaring silver towers of the World Trade Center. He
had seen the towers crumble, and with them the dreams of those he now had to
face.

King sensed immediately that many of the families already knew what was coming.
All through the night, news of the attacks and the decision to close American
airspace had filled the Pakistani airwaves. Many of those gathered on the
roadside that morning carried no luggage, and the crowd contained fewer children
than he'd expected.

He recalled that the air carried a chill.

The crowd circled before him. He summoned his courage and he spoke.

He remembered the silence and the wide-open eyes that seemed to hang on his
every word.

Through a translator, he told them the flight had been canceled because of the
attack and that planes were not being allowed to land in the United States. He
heard gasps and saw tears. Some seemed to be in shock.

Like most refugees who are destined for permanent resettlement, many in the
crowd that morning had given up their living quarters, quit whatever menial job
they might have had and disposed of almost all their possessions. Rules allowed
each refugee to take only about 60 pounds of belongings to start a new life.

The refugees peppered King with questions. When will we go? How will we live?
What can we do?

He told them he didn't have answers, that events were beyond his control. He
told them to care for each other. In his heart, he knew their long days of
suffering would continue.

One family's story

Aneesa Popal and her four excited children stood in the crowd that morning,
their life's belongings packed into four suitcases. The family had no television
and hadn't been listening to their radio.

On Thursday, the 40-year-old widow sat in the family's home in Quetta, trying to
make sense of what has become of her life. Once within hours of arriving in St.
Louis, she now has no idea what the future holds.

The family's story offers a glimpse into the tragedy and trauma suffere d by so
many refugees who endure the ravages of war. It's also typical of the
nightmarish existence that many of those now trapped here deal with every day.

Popal's plight began in 1996 when the Taliban and the mujahedeen battled for
control of Kabul, the Afghan capital. On Oct. 5 of that year, Taliban soldiers
barged into a government building and into the office of her husband, Noor
Ahmed, 42, a judge. They shot him dead.

That same day, Popal arrived back in Kabul with her children after a 10-day
visit with her father and other relatives in Mazar-e-Sharif.

She didn't worry when her husband didn't come home from work at 4 p.m. as usual.

"I thought maybe there was much work for him at the office," she recalled.

Later that night, a co-worker arrived at her door with the news.

Family and friends soon filled her home, offering what little comfort they
could.

At the hospital the next day, Popal saw his bullet-riddled body. Recalling the
scene last week, both she and her two daughters quietly sobbed.

That January, Popal gave birth to a son, Shabeer Ahmed.

Because she was also a judge, Popal feared for her own life. And with rape
commonplace among the marauding Taliban, she worried for the safety of her
eldest daughter, Rahish, then 14.

In March 1997, the widow gathered her children, including the newborn, fled the
family's large, comfortable home and headed back north to Mazar-e-Sharif, where
her father and other relatives lived.

"I thought there was no one left for me," she said.

But death would follow along the same road.

Taliban terror

In 1998, the Taliban came to Mazar-e-Sharif.

"When Taliban came to Mazar I saw so many dead bodies I lost my senses," Popal
said.

On Aug. 5, fearing what might happen, Popal's father moved her and her children
to a small village about five hours away, where he thought they would be safe.

Three days later, Taliban soldiers came to her father's home in Mazar and
demanded to take away Popal's 25-year-old sister, inevitably to be raped. When
her brother, 30, objected, they shot and killed him. They then turned, shot and
killed her sister.

News of the deaths didn't reach Popal in the village for several days.

Soon after, she packed up the family once again and began a 10-day journey
southwest to Herat, then southeast to Kandahar, across the Pakistan border to
Quetta and finally northeast to Preshawar. There, the family stayed with
friends. But Popal was unable to find work. After four months, her friends told
Popal they could no longer afford for her and her family to stay.

They advised the former family-court judge to go back to Quetta, where she might
find work as a tailor.

Popal sold jewelry and her wedding ring, used the money to buy a sewing machine,
and headed for Quetta.

The family arrived in this gritty, teeming city with no place to live. Asking
around, Popal found that a Pakistani doctor had a room for rent. When the doctor
met the family, she took pity on their dire circumstances. She gave them money,
food and a place to live at reduced rent.

"It was like an angel God gave us," she said.

Popal began making dresses, which her young daughters decorated with intricate
bead work.

Their work earned just enough to pay for the room and one meal a day.

The doctor knew that Popal's children faced a bleak future in Pakistan. Many
women here are treated as second-class citizens or worse, and the widow could
not afford schooling for any of the children. Only her eldest daughter, Rahish,
had ever received formal education, making it halfway through high school before
having to quit when the Taliban overran Mazar-e-Sharif, closed all the schools
and ordered women to stay home.

At the doctor's urging, Popal went to the United Nations office in Quetta and
applied for refugee status in April 2000.

Over the next year, the family attended a series of interviews with United
Nations officials, humanitarian agencies and U.S. government officials.

On June 20, 2001, a letter arrived from the U.S. Immigration and Naturalization
Service. Popal opened the crisp white envelope with trembling hands.

The two-paragraph, typewritten letter carried a simple message: "The Immigration
Officer has determined that the case is tentatively approved."

"I thought: Today, I have a new life," she recalled. "I will work, my children
will have an education and I will serve my life for America because they are
doing this for me."

Less than three months later, the family received a telephone call telling them
to be at the bus station the next day.

The family sold everything, including the sewing machine.

"We all cried"

At the bus station that morning, the family wore new clothes purchased for the
trip.

She remembers the crowd gathering around Pierre King, of the migration
organization. She remembers the words being spoken.

"I thought there was no blood in my body," she said. "We all cried."

With no home to return to, the family moved in with friends.

But soon, news got out in the neighborhood that the family had been leaving for
the United States.

Quetta is one of the major breeding grounds of the Taliban movement. The city is
home to many of the madrassas, or religious schools, that helped foster Islamic
extremism and foment hatred toward the West. On Sept. 11, many here celebrated
in the streets, burned police cars and a theater that featured English-speaking
movies, and damaged a fire station, several banks, shops and other businesses.

When U.S. airstrikes began on Afghanistan on Oct. 7, the city again erupted in
rioting and flames. Some locals estimate that half or more of the city's
residents support the Taliban.

Fearing reprisals by the Taliban, Popal's hosts told the family to leave. Over
the next 18 days, the family moved three times from the homes of friends, all of
whom feared the Taliban.

With no sewing machine, the family's savings dwindled. They sold the new clothes
they had purchased for the trip to America. Popal's 11-year-old son, Ajmeer
Ahmed, took a job sweeping up and making tea and meals at a workshop owned by
the husband of another friend. He works from 7 a.m. to 4 p.m. For his labor, he
receives 1,000 rupees a month, about $16.

On Thursday, he returned home from work barely able to stay awake.

Outside, the shouts and laughter of children at play floated in the warm air.
Ajmeer didn't join them.

"I have no time for fun," he said.

No flowers, no trees

The family now lives at the end of a long, narrow alley, nearly in the shadow of
a mosque and madrassa backed by Jamaat-e-Islami, a political group that is one
of the most militant Taliban support groups.

The area is a smog-choked ghetto full of militant young men who cast dangerous
looking stares. A dead-bolted door leads from the alley into a barren concrete
courtyard, surrounded by high walls that keep the small space in constant
shadows.

Their home consists of two small rooms.

In the front room, a soiled, white-lace curtain covers the only window, offering
a view of the desolate courtyard. A copy of the Quran in a decorated velvet
covering rests on a shelf above the door.

The family spends most of its time in the larger, 12-by-15-foot back room, where
white paint flakes from cracked concrete walls smudged black with grime. Mold
creeps upward from a cold concrete floor covered with borrowed carpets. A single
fluorescent bulb casts a sickly pale light in the room.

On one wall, a baby-blue teddy bear and pictures of the Mona Lisa and a small
baby torn from magazines provide the room's only decoration.

On the opposite wall, a veil and a sweater hang on broken hooks.

This is where they spend most of their lives, fearful of any knock at their
door.

When recent visitors stepped outside into the enclosed courtyard, Popal asked
that they come back inside fearing neighbors in the rooms above might see them
and report the presence of Americans to the Taliban.

Popal rarely allows Rahish, now 20, or her 15-year-old sister, Breshna, to
venture out.

"I'm very bored in this place," Rahish said. "I want to live free, to see the
flowers and the trees."

At night, the family sometimes ventures upstairs to watch CNN, American
television programs and movies on a neighbor's television.

"I want them to go to school and have jobs," Popal said of her children.

No going back

Despite continuing security problems and the tenuous presence of humanitarian
groups in some areas of Afghanistan, an estimated 80,000 Afghans have returned
to their homeland since the end of November, including about 35,000 from
Pakistan, according to the United Nations High Commissioner for Refugees.

Popal has no intention of returning.

"Twenty years of war is enough," she said. "I have no trust."

She talked of seeing recent television images from Afghanistan where women are
still dressed in burqas and of hearing reports that women still fear leaving
their homes.

"There is no peace," she said. "I don't believe we can be happy in Afghanistan.

"If I see there is security and peace, especially for my children, my girls, I
would like to see my homeland again. But I don't trust Afghanistan. I don't want
to lose any more. I've lost so many."

In Washington, government officials say the U.S.-aided overthrow of the Taliban
has complicated the refugee application process for Afghans, in part because
some would-be refugees are rethinking their departures. The Immigration and
Naturalization Service says that the application process for refugees from
across the globe, which has been largely suspended since Sept. 11, is returning
to normal. But the prospect for a quick departure for the Afghan group is dim,
INS officials say.

The Popal family knows nothing about St. Louis. Shown a map of the United
States, and asked if they knew the location of the city, the mother pointed to
Louisiana. They huddled close when shown photographs on a computer of the
downtown skyline, Soulard Market, Forest Park and other sights. They giggled and
pointed and spoke excitedly among themselves.

The family's dreams are simple.

"I miss education," Rahish said. "I want to work side-by-side with men, to walk
on the street. I'm very worried about my brothers. They've not gone to school."

She talked of the respect afforded women in the United States.

"I never saw happiness in my life in Afghanistan," Rahish said, choking back a
sob before burying her face in a white shawl she wore around her neck.

If she makes it to the states, Breshna hopes to become a doctor and help poor
people, wherever they may be.

Eleven-year-old Ajmeer Ahmed's goal is "to get an education, to prove myself in
front of my family, to become a wealthy man and take care of them."

Shabeer Ahmed, 5, wants to go to school, play soccer and cricket.

Their mother dreams of her children learning English and going to college. She
hopes to return to her career as a judge.

For now, they sit and wait, and wait, and wait, their dreams delayed.

"My hope is that Americans are very good people and they will give us another
chance to go to America," Popal said.

LOAD-DATE: January 13, 2002

LANGUAGE: English

NOTES: SO NEAR TO FREEDOM; Reporter Phillip O'Connor: E-mail:
poconnor@post-dispatch.com Phone: 314-340-8321

GRAPHIC: PHOTO, MAP; Color Photos by ANDREW CUTRARO / POST-DISPATCH; (1) Aneesa
Popal, an Afghan refugee who was to come to St. Louis on Sept. 12, sits in the
two-room apartment she shares with her four children in Quetta, Pakistan. The
family lives in fear of the neighbors, all of whom support the Taliban. Popal's
son, Shabeer Ahmed, 5, is in the doorway.; (2) The Popal family's resettlement
documents are pictured, along with a handbook of American customs written in
Farsi. (3) Aneesa Popal and her daughter, Rahish, 20, sit and weep in the
two-room apartment where they have been living since their dream of coming to
America was shattered by the terrorist attacks of Sept. 11. "I'm very bored in
this place," said Rahish, whose father, a judge, was slain by the Taliban in
Afghanistan. "I want to live free, to see the flowers and the trees."; (4)
Shabeer Ahmed, 5, paces around the 12-foot-by-10-foot courtyard of the family's
apartment as his sister, Breshna, 15, watches. Their brother, Ajmeer Ahmed, 11,
has a job at the workshop of a family friend. He works from 7 a.m. to 4 p.m. and
earns about $16 a month.; ; (5) Color Map - REFUGEE FAMILY'S FLIGHT; (Map of
Afghanistan and Pakistan showing the route of the Popal family's flight); Fled
Taliban in 1997: Kabul, Afghanistan; Fled Taliban in 1998: Mazar-e-Sharif,
Afghanistan; (Moved to Herat, Afghanistan then on to Kandahar, Afghanistan.
Crossed the border to Quetta, Pakistan then moved again to Peshawar, Pakistan.
Returned once more to Quetta.)

TYPE: PROFILE; U.S. IMMIGRATION BAN; AFGHAN REFUGEES; THE POPAL FAMILY

                  Copyright 2002 St. Louis Post-Dispatch, Inc.


                              226 of 275 DOCUMENTS

                       St. Louis Post-Dispatch (Missouri)

               January 16, 2002 Wednesday Five Star Lift Edition

LEAVING LIMBO

SECTION: EDITORIAL; Pg. B6

LENGTH: 455 words


REFUGEES

SLOWLY, the ball is rolling again for refugees stuck in limbo after Sept. 11.
For Aneesa Popal, an Afghan war widow with four children, the process has been
painfully slow, but at least now there is a renewed sense of hope that change
will come soon.

Ms. Popal and her children, who range in age from 5 to 20, are among about
22,000 refugees throughout the world whose relocation to the United States had
been approved by the U.S. State Department Sept. 11. About 125 of them,
including Ms. Popal's family, were bound for St. Louis.

Post-Dispatch staff writer Phillip O'Connor this week detailed the Popal
family's plight. Having spent more than a year working toward final approval to
come to the United States, the family's hopes were dashed the day planes crashed
into the World Trade Center, the Pentagon and a grassy field in Pennsylvania.
The sad irony is that they were trying to escape the repressive Taliban regime.

In the wake of the national tragedy, the State Department froze all immigration.
But after putting in place new security measures, in late November the ban on
receiving refugees was eased. Added background checks made the already
cumbersome process even slower. People already approved had to be screened anew.
Since the ban was lifted, fewer than 800 refugees have come to the United
States, compared to about 10,000 who usually come in the last quarter of the
year. Only 17 refugees came to St. Louis during the last three months of 2001.

The State Department says the added security is necessary to make sure no
would-be terrorists slip in. The government also wanted to make sure immigration
agents were safe as they interviewed refugee candidates in potentially hostile
locales.

But according to experts at the International Institute, which has helped
thousands of immigrants relocate to St. Louis, refugees are unlikely to be
terrorists. People hoping to gain refugee status often spend years in camps,
waiting to get clearance to come to the United States. For most, the odds of
that happening are extremely long. In contrast, terrorists hoping to do harm on
American soil are much more likely to try to enter the country on student or
tourist visas, or simply drive across porous Mexican or Canadian borders, where
cash and cover await them.

For national security reasons as well as safety's sake, extraordinary
precautions are prudent. The key is how to balance necessary caution with
compassion for those fleeing oppression, starvation and years of suffering.

Ms. Popal, and others like her who already have security clearance, should have
to wait no longer. And the American people should welcome these new
freedom-seekers, just as they have done for generations.

LOAD-DATE: January 16, 2002

LANGUAGE: English

TYPE: EDITORIAL

                  Copyright 2002 St. Louis Post-Dispatch, Inc.


                              227 of 275 DOCUMENTS

                       St. Louis Post-Dispatch (Missouri)

                 January 18, 2002 Friday Five Star Lift Edition

IMMIGRATION OPPONENTS PURCHASE ADS IN MISSOURI;
 COALITION WANTS TO STEM FLOW OF IMMIGRANTS

BYLINE: Jo Mannies Post-Dispatch Political Correspondent

SECTION: METRO; Pg. C2

LENGTH: 304 words


Television viewers and newspaper readers in Missouri are among the first in the
nation to see new ads that call for more restrictions in immigration.

The ads are sponsored by United to Secure America, a Washington-based coalition
of groups that are anti-immigration or seek to curb the nation's population
growth.

The group appears to have purchased ad time on several local stations. It also
placed an ad in Wednesday's Post-Dispatch.

Coalition spokesman Dan Stein said the television and newspaper ads are aimed at
persuading the Congress and President George W. Bush to take action.

The newspaper ad reads: "Call Congress now and demand a reduction in immigration
to a number we can safely manage." The ad states that the federal government's
immigration system "is too overwhelmed to protect us" and existing laws aren't
enforced.

The TV and print ads feature photos of some of the terrorists in the hijacking
of planes that crashed into the World Trade Center, the Pentagon and in rural
Pennsylvania on Sept. 11.

Stein said the coalition was concerned that Bush was more interested in wooing
Mexican leaders than in imposing controls on illegal immigrants. The Senate also
has appeared to be reluctant to act on a House-passed bill that does impose some
restrictions, he said.

He declined to say why Missouri was selected for the ads, but noted that many of
its television stations reach viewers in neighboring states. Stein also wouldn't
disclose how much was being spent to air the ad, how long it would air on
Missouri stations and how many other states also may be selected for TV or
newspaper ad buys.

The coalition claims to have 250,000 members. Its groups include the Federation
for American Immigration Reform, Americans for Immigration Control, Negative
Population Growth and NumbersUSA.com.

LOAD-DATE: January 18, 2002

LANGUAGE: English

                  Copyright 2002 St. Louis Post-Dispatch, Inc.


                              228 of 275 DOCUMENTS

                       St. Louis Post-Dispatch (Missouri)

                   January 20, 2002 Sunday Three Star Edition

U.S. AGENCY IS TIGHTENING FOREIGN ADOPTION PROCEDURES;
 CHANGES AIM TO ENSURE CHILDREN BEING ADOPTED ARE ORPHANS

BYLINE: The Associated Press

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. A11

LENGTH: 349 words

DATELINE: WASHINGTON


Immigration and Naturalization Service Commissioner James Ziglar is drafting
changes to international adoption procedures to better ensure that the children
U.S. parents adopt are orphans.

"As it is now, you can literally go through an adoption and then find out the
child can't come to the United States, because they don't qualify as an orphan,"
Ziglar said Friday.

The immigration agency last month indefinitely suspended issuing adoption visas
for Cambodian children, amid concerns that some children were bought or stolen.

"Obviously, if the child has been stolen, we don't ever want to be party to
anything that would aid and abet that, and I would hope that parents who want to
adopt overseas would not want to look the other way just because of their own
interest in having a child."

The immigration agency requires a two-step process for adopting foreign
children. Parents first apply to the agency, which verifies the prospective
parents' eligibility after they show that they are financially stable and that
they have submitted to a home visit. Once the adoption is complete, the adoptive
parents apply for a visa for the child. That triggers a check on the child's
background by U.S. officials.

"Unfortunately, in the middle here, people have already connected to this kid,
and that's when they find out this kid is not legitimately an orphan," Ziglar
said.

Though details are being worked out, Ziglar wants prospective adoptive parents
to get the visa before they complete the adoption. That would allo w U.S.
officials to verify the child is legitimately an orphan before the parents
travel to the foreign country to get physical custody of the child.

In the past 10 years, the number of children adopted internationally by
Americans has tripled, with 18,541 such adoptions from October 1999 to October
2000.

Ziglar said he has dispatched more government officials to Cambodia, Thailand
and Vietnam to review pending adoptions to ensure that the children are orphans.
He said the immigration agency has alerted the Cambodian government to some of
the problems.

LOAD-DATE: January 20, 2002

LANGUAGE: English

                  Copyright 2002 St. Louis Post-Dispatch, Inc.


                              229 of 275 DOCUMENTS

                       St. Louis Post-Dispatch (Missouri)

                January 22, 2002 Tuesday Five Star Lift Edition

LETTERS TO THE EDITOR

SECTION: EDITORIAL; Pg. B16

LENGTH: 1026 words


Anti-immigration ad is misleading

"We can't control terrorists if we don't control immigration," said the ad on
Page F4 of your Jan. 20 issue. The ad carried photos of 15 men who allegedly
were responsible for the evil our country suffered on Sept. 11.

"30 million foreign nationals cross our borders yearly," the ad stated, without
mentioning that many of those do so legally and return to their countries after
visiting, spending their money, studying, working the fields or doing business.

The ad pointed out -- describing it as a problem -- that "1 million immigrants
are admitted each year." Although that number was far above the number of which
I was a part in 1946, it did not indicate whether the problem consisted of the
fact that those same immigrants were admitted to do the most menial, or
advanced, jobs that our society requires.

But the big irony was that, although the ad called attention to terrorism,
nowhere did it show photos of Timothy McVeigh or of the American-born Enron
executives whose lies have destroyed the lives of several honest compatriots.

Granted that a nation has a right to protect its borders and that, perhaps, as
the ad states, the Immigration and Naturalization Service may not have been able
to do its job. But doesn't it follow that an ad that pretends to educate people
should point to the multiple sides of an issue rather just present half-truths,
McCarthy-style, hoping that people will act against a problem that may, or may
not, be there?

Manuel L. Ponte, Olivette

Questions of life

Questions for consideration on the anniversary of Roe v. Wade:

When does a human life, biologically, begin? Is life a continuum from conception
until natural death?

Is the measure of our humanness dependent on our external appearances?

Do we believe that the inalienable rights of life, liberty and the pursuit of
happiness belong to all humans or to only a chosen few?

Is there an intrinsic dignity common to all human life? Would this dignity
demand that life at all its stages be worthy of respect?

Why are we as a society willing to choose death as a solution to a problem?

Dette Reh, Ladue

Fake clinics

As the Missouri regional organizing intern at the National Abortion and
Reproductive Action League, I feel compelled to respond to Michelle Malkin's
Jan. 14 column regarding crisis pregnancy centers.

Neither NARAL nor so-called radical feminists "push abortion as the only
acceptable choice," as Malkin claims. The pro-choice movement is pro-choice, not
pro-abortion. Organizations such as NARAL support every woman's fundamental
right to make her own choices about pregnancy and childbearing, including
abortion. To make these decisions, women must have access to non-biased
information.

A woman's right to choose is threatened by crisis pregnancy centers that lure
women to their facilities under false pretenses, deprive them of accurate
information needed to make a fully informed choice and use fear tactics to
dissuade women from choosing legal abortion.

Malkin's claim that these centers discuss "options, including adoption, abortion
and parenthood" is false. The centers refuse to provide abortion referrals,
discourage women from using birth control and usually do not have medical
professionals on staff.

It is time to stop supporting fake clinics that mislead and intimidate
vulnerable women.

Vanessa Jackson, St. Louis

No favoritism

The Jan. 18 editorial and news story concerning the guilty pleas of former
Councilman Robert A. Young IV and Michael Saggio suggested there was an effort
by my office to show favoritism to them because we did not give advance notice
to the press of the plea discussions or of their court appearances.

These claims are not accurate and fail to consider fully the legal and ethical
duties of federal prosecutors.

First, all potential guilty pleas are discussed privately between prosecutors
and defense counsel. When a guilty plea is finalized, it is presented in court
and made available to the public. In this case, Young and Saggio agreed to waive
their right to be indicted by a grand jury and agreed to enter guilty pleas
immediately.

On Jan. 17, they arrived at and departed from the building from public
entrances, and the proceedings occurred in open court. No charges were filed
against them until the court accepted their waivers of indictment that morning.
Immediately after they waived indictment, the charges were filed, and Young and
Saggio entered guilty pleas. Within an hour, we made the court filings available
to the press and answered all appropriate questions.

As federal prosecutors, we are generally prohibited by the Privacy Act, the
grand jury secrecy requirements of the Federal Rules of Criminal Procedure,
Department of Justice policy and state bar ethics rules from making public
announcements before charges are actually filed. These laws and policies are in
place, in large part, to protect the reputations of people who have not been
charged with a crime.

The guiding principles adopted by this office include respect for the rule of
law and treating all those who come before us, whether "high-placed" or not,
with dignity and fairness. We hope to fulfill these principles by complying with
the law and by respecting the rights of the people we investigate. Because one
of our purposes is to deter crime, we will continue to prosecute aggressively
and publicize our activities to th e fullest extent allowed.

Ray Gruender

United States Attorney

Eastern District of Missouri

St. Louis

Unfair Ford cartoon

As a Lincoln Mercury dealer, I take offense at the Jan. 14 editorial cartoon
representing the elimination of the Mercury Villager and Cougar. These vehicles
are low volume in sales and as a result are not profitable for dealers and Ford
Motor Co.

You insult Ford employees by representing the Ford worker as you do. Elimination
of vehicles and plant closings are a result of economics.

When vehicles are eliminated, people have a tendency not to buy the already
existing ones. You owe all Ford employees and dealership employees an apology
for this cartoon.

Butch Peterson, Collinsville

LOAD-DATE: January 22, 2002

LANGUAGE: English

TYPE: LETTERS

                  Copyright 2002 St. Louis Post-Dispatch, Inc.


                              230 of 275 DOCUMENTS

                       St. Louis Post-Dispatch (Missouri)

                January 22, 2002 Tuesday Five Star Lift Edition

HOMELAND INSECURITY

SECTION: EDITORIAL; Pg. B16

LENGTH: 525 words


IMMIGRATION

AN ADVERTISING campaign that attacks the nation's immigration system is
misleading and irresponsible in its conclusion that reducing immigration would
make us safer. The ads, paid for by a group called United to Secure America, are
running nationally on TV and in newspapers, including the Post-Dispatch.

They are misleading because they lump together under one term -- immigrants --
two separate categories of people: immigrants and visa violators. In so doing,
the sponsors of the ad are pandering to xenophobia born out of the Sept. 11
attacks.

The numbers in the advertisements are correct. The nation does admit nearly 1
million immigrants a year. And the government has identified, but cannot locate,
300,000 people whose temporary visas have expired.

But neither number has any bearing on the other. Immigrants are people who
undergo a complicated and lengthy process to move to the United States
permanently. Visa holders -- typically tourists, business people or students --
are approved to stay for a specific period of time. Some overstay their visas,
but the vast majority do not. More than 31.4 million people came to the U.S.
holding these limited-term visas in 1999.

The ads, which contain the pictures of 15 of the Sept. 11 terrorists, prey on an
already nervous American populace, sowing the seeds of fear and mistrust against
people hoping to enter this country for the same reason immigrants have for
generations. None of alleged hijackers entered the United States as an
immigrant. Immigrants work hard to come to the United States through a process
that takes years. Once they arrive, most set out to become productive,
tax-paying members of society.

The ads assert that "one of the lessons America learned on Sept. 11 is that our
immigration system is too overwhelmed to protect us... Clearly, our immigration
policies no longer work in our favor." The ad then argues for a reduction in
immigration "to a safe number we can manage."

The Justice Department has detained more than 1,000 people on immigrati on
charges in its effort to find those responsible for the attacks. So far, only
one person, Zacarias Moussaoui, stands charged with knowledge of the Sept. 11
plot. Mr. Moussaoui, who entered the United States last year on a student visa,
is charged with plotting with Osama bin Laden and his al-Qaida network to hijack
the planes. Tighter immigration restrictions would not have kept Mr. Moussaoui
-- or any of the Sept. 11 hijackers -- out of the country.

But the United States does need to set up a much better tracking system for
those with temporary visas, rather than further restricting the relatively small
number of immigrants. There is also much room for improvement in the security of
our northern and notoriously porous southern borders.

A campaign designed to turn American people against those seeking to share the
promise of a better life is contrary to the principles of truth and justice on
which our nation was founded. In our efforts to make our nation more safe and
secure, we must be careful not to shut out those who will make it stronger and
richer by their presence.

LOAD-DATE: January 22, 2002

LANGUAGE: English

TYPE: EDITORIAL

                  Copyright 2002 St. Louis Post-Dispatch, Inc.


                              231 of 275 DOCUMENTS

                       St. Louis Post-Dispatch (Missouri)

                 January 30, 2002 Wednesday Three Star Edition

SECURITY PLAN FOR OLYMPICS ISN'T CHANGING, OFFICIALS SAY

BYLINE: The Associated Press

SECTION: SPORTS; Pg. B14

LENGTH: 290 words

DATELINE: SALT LAKE CITY


Top Olympic security officials said Tuesday there have been no major changes to
their plans to protect the Winter Games despite asking for additional federal
agents.

U.S. Attorney General John Ashcroft toured Olympic venues last week and had some
questions for the local security officials.

While Ashcroft said he was very impressed with the security operation overall,
he did express concern about certain areas outside Olympic venues where people
will gather to celebrate, said Robert Flowers, commissioner of the Utah Olympic
Public Safety Command.

"He should come out and ask those questions," Flowers said.

The additional security officers, between 30 and 90 of them, will come from the
U.S. Immigration and Naturalization Service, Flowers said.

Their duties will have nothing to do with illegal immigrants, he said.

"This just happened to be a resource we could tap," Flowers said.

Flowers refused to say where the INS officers will be deployed, but he did say
it was outside of Salt Lake City.

Local and state resources have always been stretched thinly in the security
plan, especially in smaller cities with venues such as Park City, where events
such as ski jumping, luge, bobsled, snowboard and moguls are to be held.

Some of the federal and out-of-state reinforcements Olympic planners had been
counting on were lost to military call-ups after the Sept. 11 terrorist attacks,
Flowers said. "This really isn't news for us," Flowers said.

Ashcroft expected security planners would be fine-tuning their plan "up to and
throughout the Olympic events," said Barbara Comstock, spokeswoman for the
Justice Department. The Olympic Public Safety Command is "more than up to the
task and will set a new standard."

LOAD-DATE: January 30, 2002

LANGUAGE: English

                  Copyright 2002 St. Louis Post-Dispatch, Inc.


                              232 of 275 DOCUMENTS

                       St. Louis Post-Dispatch (Missouri)

                  February 9, 2002 Saturday Three Star Edition

EYE SCAN MAKES DEBUT IN SECURITY CHECKS AT LONDON'S HEATHROW AIRPORT

BYLINE: The Associated Press

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 7

LENGTH: 241 words

DATELINE: LONDON


* A video camera that takes a close-up of the iris will allow 2,000 frequent
fliers to make a speedy pass through passport checks.

Immigration officials have begun testing a security system that scans a
passenger's eye as an alternative to checking passports at London's Heathrow
Airport.

The device, on a five-month trial, which began Friday, will allow up to 2,000
frequent visitors to pass through immigration simply by staring into a video
camera that takes a close-up image of the iris. The system was developed by
EyeTicket Corp. of McLean, Va.

"Although this particular trial is about simplifying a passenger's progress
through the airport, we will also consider whether in the longer term this sort
of technology could have wider security benefits," said Mike Temple, managing
director of Heathrow.

Passengers will undergo identity checks by an immigration officer before being
able to use the equipment. A digital image of each passenger's iris is then
stored in a computer database.

Once enrolled, passengers simply look into the camera from a distance of about
10 inches, and their identities are verified in seconds.

If the iris patterns match, an entry ticket is automatically printed and a
barrier opens, allowing the traveler out of the immigration hall.

Enrolled passengers still will need to carry their passports on each trip.

The trial is open to passengers who travel with British Airways and Virgin
Atlantic.

LOAD-DATE: February 9, 2002

LANGUAGE: English

NOTES: A shorter version of this story appeared in the Five Star Lift edition.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO; Photo by THE ASSOCIATED PRESS - A woman has her eye scanned in
the new iris recognition system at London's Heathrow Airport on Friday, the
first day the screening system was used.

                  Copyright 2002 St. Louis Post-Dispatch, Inc.


                              233 of 275 DOCUMENTS

                       St. Louis Post-Dispatch (Missouri)

               February 14, 2002 Thursday Five Star Lift Edition

NAIL SALONS OFFER PAMPERING FOR CLIENTS, PATH TO MIDDLE CLASS FOR VIETNAMESE

BYLINE: Theresa Tighe Of The Post-Dispatch Jennifer LaFluer Of The Post-Dispatch
Staff Provided Computer Analysis For This Article. Information For This Article
Was Taken From The San Jose Mercury News And The Magazine Nails.

SECTION: WEST POST; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1172 words


* About 400 people with Vietnamese surnames are manicurists in St. Louis and St.
Louis County. "It's been a pattern throughout history: An ethnic group fills a
niche," said Ann Rynearson of the International Institute.

Marian Whitner admired her perfectly shaped fingernails, each painted with a
deep purple-red polish called Cognac.

Lien Tran, the owner and operator of Perfect Nail in Crestwood, manicured those
nails. Tran is a Vietnamese immigrant.

If you get a manicure in St. Louis or St. Louis County, chances are about one in
three that the manicurist will be a Vietnamese immigrant or the child of one,
according to a Post-Dispatch analysis of Vietnamese surnames on state manicurist
licenses from the Missouri Department of Economic Development's Division of
Professional Registration.

The same pattern holds nationally. Overall, fewer than 1 percent of the people
in St. Louis and St. Louis County are Vietnamese.

So for many Vietnamese, nail salons have been the ticket to middle-class life.
About 400 people with Vietnamese surnames are manicurists in St. Louis and St.
Louis County.

A good manicurist can make between $25,000 and $30,000 a year, and salon owners
can make more.

"It's been a pattern throughout history: An ethnic group fills a niche," said
Ann Rynearson, an anthropologist and senior vice president with the
International Institute, which resettles refugees.

Rynearson said that in the St. Louis area, refugees from the Middle East had
gone into the food-shop business, many Indians operated motels and Koreans often
ran beauty-supply houses.

The Vietnamese went into the nail business in the 1980s in southern California,
which had one of the largest Vietnamese communities outside of Vietnam, says
Cyndy Drummey, publisher of Nails magazine, one of several trade publications.
One of the magazines is published in Vietnamese, and California's state test for
manicurists is given in Vietnamese and other languages.

Drummey said that many of the Vietnamese who had come to this country had
training in personal care. She also said Vietnamese operators had cut prices and
increased the availability of manicures. They have opened many limited-service
salons that specialize in nails. Until then, people got manicures in beauty
parlors and barber shops.

In the first Vietnamese shops, people had two choices: manicures or acrylic
tips. Over the years, services have increased to include pedicures, air-brushed
and stenciled designs, and other methods of nail enhancement. Vietnamese
immigration provided an ever-growing labor pool willing to work long hours for
low wages. Within a decade, the nail-care market in California was saturated,
and trained Vietnamese technicians began to move to other states.

Tom Phan, the owner of Beautiful Nails and Hair in Brentwood, came to St. Louis
in 1996 from California because of the overloaded California market.

"A lot of people were doing this, and the prices were coming down," he said.

Phan's salon is sleek, like a modernistic factory for beautiful hands and feet.
All the stations are white and curved, and 16 manicurists, all Vietnamese,
constantly work on clients' hands. The manicure area backs into six cushioned,
black pedicure chairs.

About 100 clients come each day. The work is split evenly between manicures and
pedicures.

Men make up about 20 percent of the clientele. A client can have an acrylic nail
put on the big toe for $5. The price of a full-set of acrylic nails for the
hands is $26.

Phan, 40, said he hired Vietnamese workers.

"My people work hard; they work long hours," he said.

Phan, who also lives in Brentwood, was one of the boat people who came to this
country in 1980.

Drummey said the businesses' low overhead, minimal startup costs and low
training requirements attracted the Vietnamese. Another plus was that in this
line of work, the language barrier wasn't a problem. "Hello" and "goodbye" can
suffice.

Tran, who fled from Vietnam six days before the government of South Vietnam
capitulated to Communist forces, said she had become a nail technician because
she had always wanted to be her own boss.

But it took a while. After she came to St. Louis in 1975, she worked as a
cleaning lady and later as a substitute teacher. She said nail technicians made
more money than substitute teachers.

In 1993, she enrolled in a nails course at the National Academy of Beauty of Art
in Concord Village.

She finds working with nails a natural extension of her culture. She said that
in Vietnam, a pretty girl must have pretty nails, teeth and hair.

To become a manicurist, one must take a 400-hour course, which costs about
$1,200, and must pass a licensing exam.

Tran, 53, who lives in St. Louis, said an operator could furnish and start a
shop for about $25,000. Her shop has blue velvet chairs with ivory lace doilies.
She charges $20 for a set of acrylic nails.

Even with the capital, it can sometimes be hard to start a nail salon.

Last fall, St. Louis aldermen approved a plan that included a ban on nail salons
in the Gravois business district at the request of the Gravois Business
Association.

Association President Jennifer Bess explained, "The business association had
been warned that in the past in other neighborhoods, that nail salons had been
fronts."

She would not specify for what.

Another neighborhood activist, who asked not to be identified, said some salons
had been fronts for drug deals. Some had become hangouts, and others had put up
bars and garish signs.

Drummey, of Nails magazine, registered disbelief at the charges.

"I never heard of any city having problems of salons involved in that kind of
activity," she said.

Both Phan and Tran believe the secret of success in their business is service.

"People don't care about price," Phan said. "They care about service."

Added Tran: "You have got to be patient and courteous. A customer has to feel
pleased with the nail tech."

=================

Safe nail care

Pam Hoelscher, executive director of the Missouri State Board of Cosmetology,
says most of the complaints - perhaps as high as 70 percent - that her board
gets are about nail salons. The usual subjects are lack of sanitation or a
license. The following is a list of tips for getting the safest manicure or
pedicure.

* Make sure the salon has a license. It should be posted in the reception area.
Make sure your cosmetologist has a posted license.

* If the towels aren't clean or if the instruments appear unsanitized, go
somewhere else. Same goes for strong odors.

* Don't be afraid to ask your nail technician how the instruments have been
disinfected.

* Before you start, both you and the nail technician should wash your hands.

* You should not feel any pain or burning when an electric file is being used.

* Don't let someone cut off your calluses with a razor blade. The old practice
is considered unsafe.

-- Information for this article was taken from the San Jose Mercury New s and
the magazine Nails.

LOAD-DATE: February 15, 2002

LANGUAGE: English

NOTES: Reporter Theresa Tighe: E-mail: ttighe@post-dispatch.com Phone:
314-340-8129

GRAPHIC: PHOTO; (1) Color Photo by HILLARY LEVIN - At Beautiful Nails and Hair
in Brentwood, manicurist San Tran works with a customer as owner Tom Phan
(background) talks on the phone. Tran and Phan both emigrated from Vietnam. The
salon has a steady stream of walk-in customers.; (2) Color Photo by TED DARGAN /
POST-DISPATCH - Lien Tran works on the nails of a customer at Perfect Nail in
Crestwood. (NOTE: this photo only appeared in the South Post and North Post
versions of this story.); (3) Photo by HILLARY LEVIN - At Beautiful Nails and
Hair, Katie Andrews (left) and Halana Perez, both of St. Louis, talk as
pedicurists (back to front) Vo Tien, Vo Kieu and Vo Yen work on their
customers.; (4) Color Photo by TED DARGAN / POST-DISPATCH - Lien Tran is careful
to treat her customers with patience and courtesy, she says.; (5) PHOTO BY
HILLARY LEVIN - Manicurist Harry Tran wears a mask to protect himself against
dust from the electric nail file he often uses. Here Tran polishes the acrylic
nails of a customer at Beautiful Nails and Hair. Tran emigrated from Vietnam six
years ago. (NOTE: this photo only appeared in the South Post version of this
story.)

TYPE: PROFILE; LIEN TRAN; OWNER, PERFECT NAIL

                  Copyright 2002 St. Louis Post-Dispatch, Inc.


                              234 of 275 DOCUMENTS

                       St. Louis Post-Dispatch (Missouri)

                  February 17, 2002 Sunday Three Star Edition

ADVOCATES URGE CHANGES IN HANDLING OF ILLEGAL CHILD IMMIGRANTS IN U.S.;
 MEASURES IN CONGRESS WOULD SHIFT ROLE OF INS

BYLINE: Marc Levy The Associated Press

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. A12

LENGTH: 766 words

DATELINE: HARRISBURG, PA.


Last July, four teen-agers from the impoverished African country of Tanzania
walked away from an international Boy Scout jamboree in Virginia in hopes of
staying in the United States and getting an education.

When they saw reports of their disappearance on television, they turned
themselves in.

More than six months later, the boys remain in an Immigration and Naturalization
Service detention center in Pennsylvania while their attorneys and the INS argue
over whether they can stay in the country. A decision could be months away.

Advocates of quicker, more humane treatment of unaccompanied youngsters who are
in the United States illegally say the case is not uncommon.

"Our immigration system treats children as aliens first, and then children as an
afterthought, to a certain degree," said Chris Nugent, who runs the American Bar
Association's immigration pro bono project.

Such cases have prompted an internal review of INS policies, a push by legal
organizations and nonprofit groups to establish a lawyer-referral system, and
legislation in Congress to change the duties of the INS.

The legislation would break off the role of custodian and caregiver from the
INS, which is also the chief law enforcer dealing with juveniles who are in this
country illegally.

Supporters of the bills - introduced over a year ago, but delayed by the attacks
of Sept. 11 - argue that the INS is not equipped to look out for children, and
that caring for youngsters while prosecuting them represents a conflict of
interest. A hearing on the matter by the Senate Judiciary Committee is set for
Feb. 28.

Andrew Morton, a Washington lobbyist who is serving without compensation as the
Tanzanian boys' attorney, said the youngsters, ages 16 and 17, do not want to go
back to their homeland for fear of reprisals for embarrassing their government.
He said their parents want the boys to be released to a foster family and
allowed to remain in the United States.

The reasons for the Tanzanian boys' extended detention are in dispute.

Morton said that he found a foster family last August willing to take the boys
in while their case wends it way through the courts. But he said the INS
believes the boys have relatives living illegally in the Washington area, and
the agency may be holding the youngsters in an attempt to get the family members
to turn themselves in.

Children's advocates call the practice "baiting" and say it is widely used by
the INS.

The INS denied it engages in baiting. The agency says it does not discuss
specific cases. But a government source speaking on the condition of anonymity
said the INS would release the boys to a foster family if it received a
statement from their parents asking the agency to do so.

Generally, the INS works with nonprofit organizations to try to find homes for
juveniles while their cases proceed. That is what was done with Elian Gonzalez,
the 6-year-old Cuban boy who lived with relatives in Miami. The INS also works
with nonprofit organizations to find lawyers willing to represent illegal
immigrants for free.

But it can be difficult to find attorneys for each of the more than 20,000
immigrants in INS custody at any one time, INS spokeswoman Karen Kraushaar said.
And while illegal aliens have the right to retain an attorney, the government is
under no obligation to appoint one for them at taxpayer expense.

In general, about 65 percent of the unaccompanied alien juveniles scooped up by
the INS - a total of 4,500 to 5,000 a year, most of them 14 to 16 years old -
get placed with immediate blood relatives in the United States within days or
weeks.

With appeals, asylum cases can drag on for months or years.

Critics of the INS cite the cases of a 16-year-old Guatemalan boy and an
8-year-old Nigerian girl.

The boy, who was badly abused by his parents, has been held for eight months -
in adult jails and detention centers - while the INS waits for the boy's
brother, an illegal immigrant living in the United States, to turn himself in,
according to advocates. The Nigerian girl, who was abandoned by her parents, was
in custody for eight months before being placed with an aunt in Connecticut,
advocates said.

Under a bill in Congress, the Justice Department's Office of Children's Services
would take custody of the children and find someone to take care of them, while
the INS would prosecute them. The legislation would also require that each child
be provided with a pro bono attorney.

Advocates are also pushing for the establishment of a separate immigration court
docket to speed up juvenile cases.

LOAD-DATE: February 17, 2002

LANGUAGE: English

                  Copyright 2002 St. Louis Post-Dispatch, Inc.


                              235 of 275 DOCUMENTS

                       St. Louis Post-Dispatch (Missouri)

                February 25, 2002 Monday Five Star Lift Edition

COLLEGE GIVES IMMIGRANTS BOOST IN ENGLISH;
 NUMBER OF STUDENTS NEARLY DOUBLED SINCE '95

BYLINE: Susan C. Thomson Of the Post-Dispatch

SECTION: METRO; Pg. B1

LENGTH: 943 words


They are your neighbors, come to St. Louis from all over the world, speaking
Serbo-Croatian, Russian, Vietnamese or one of about 90 other native languages.
Now they've come to St. Louis Community College with the common goal of
bettering their English, the better to navigate their adopted country.

In the metropolitan area, the college leads in offering academic courses in
English as a second language - ESL for short. Unlike the ESL courses many
schools offer under the headings of continuing or adult basic education, these
courses in reading, writing, pronunciation and grammar come with real homework
and grades, plus credits that may count toward a college degree.

As immigration to St. Louis has grown and changed, so has the college's program.
When Sharon Person began teaching ESL classes there 10 years ago, Russians were
the largest single group in her classes. Of late, Bosnians have overtaken them.

From 1995 to 2000, the latest year for available figures, the number of ESL
students on the college's three campuses together increased to 449 from 254. The
Forest Park campus, where Person directs the ESL program, offers more classes
than the other two combined, and gets the greatest number and variety of
students. With students of all backgrounds, skin colors and accents, the
college's ESL classes look and sound like a small United Nations. All the work
is done in English.

Among the 20 students in teacher Eve Fonseca's grammar course, for instance, are
students whose first languages are Serbo-Croatian, Russian, French, Chinese,
Arabic, Polish, Vietnamese, Spanish and Bulgarian.

Fonseca speaks clearly but conversationally, slowing down only for a dictation
exercise. Phrase by phrase, she reads through a short paragraph as the students
write what they hear. Don't worry about punctuation, she tells them.

"What about spelling?" a mischievous student asks. Giggles. It goes without
saying that spelling counts.

One of Fonseca's students is Iliya Naydenov, from Bulgaria. In this country for
a year and a half, he is taking ESL classes while working in a classy downtown
restaurant. He says he would like to follow up with college classes in business.

Person says about 70 percent of the college's ESL students are U.S. citizens or
permanent U.S. residents. That distinguishes them from "international students,"
who come to this country on student visas for the main purpose of going to
school.

"Our program was designed to meet the needs of the immigrant population," Person
said. The students range from age 17 up. They bring varied educational
backgrounds, everything from high school to doctoral level studies. Students are
tested before they enter the program to ensure they have some English fluency.
Those who don't are referred to less demanding continuing or adult basic
education classes.

The tests also help determine how many and what kind of classes they need to
prepare for regular college classes.

Although some simply want to improve their reading and writing, others want to
go on for degrees, either from the community college or a four-year school.

Marta Beirne, from Colombia, wants to segue into the radiology technology
program at Forest Park. Miguel Cruz, born in New York of Puerto Rican parents,
and prodded by a daughter who is a physician, wants to go on to nursing school.

Beirne and Cruz are among a dozen students in a pronunciation class Keith Hulsey
teaches. According to the note cards students have filled out for him, other
students hail from Morocco, Vietnam, Bosnia, Spain, Bangladesh, Ukraine, Laos
and Ecuador. They have been in St. Louis anywhere from one week to five years.
One is an au pair, two are restaurant employees, and another works "at the
mall." Most list no jobs on their cards.

Hulsey begins with some general chat of the how-was-your-weekend variety.

Hulsey's class is studying English vowels, a peculiarly mercurial species. As
Hulsey's lesson points out, the "a" in "father" makes the same sound as the "o"
in "not." And, even more mind-boggling, the "oe" in "does," "oo" in "flood," "a"
in "what" and "u" in "cut," the "o" in "wonderful" all make the same sound.

Working from a handout of simple words and sentences, the students do their best
to say the vowels correctly. If they don't at first, Hulsey prods them gently
until they do. Some students hang back shyly. Others seem more eager to try than
fearful of being embarrassed.

Their words flow more freely when Hulsey opens the class for discussion of a
"case" - a few paragraphs describing a hypothetical accident involving a car and
a truck. The students divide themselves into small groups to debate which
vehicle is at fault, and then they reconvene to share their collective opinions
and, in some cases, change their individual minds.

Person says ESL is one of the fastest growing fields of study in community
colleges nationwide.

Southwestern Illinois College's ESL courses are all of the adult basic education
sort. But Pat Hunsaker, who directs the program, says that with students coming
to campus speaking about 30 different languages, there will be a need before
long to offer more structured classes.

St. Charles Community College offers both types of classes. Gayle Feng-Checkett,
who oversees the college's small but growing academic ESL program, points to
people from Mexico, Korea, Pakistan, Saudia Arabia, Afri ca, Asia, Bosnia,
Bulgaria and Russia who are putting down roots in and around St. Charles County.

"The message I like to get across is that these are members of our community,
hence part of our mission, part of the population we should be serving," she
says.

LOAD-DATE: February 25, 2002

LANGUAGE: English

NOTES: Reporter Susan C. Thomson:; E-mail: sthomson@post-dispatch.com; Phone:
314-209-1315

GRAPHIC: PHOTO; Color Photo by DAWN MAJORS/POST-DISPATCH - Ahmed Ali (center),
20, originally of Ethiopia, is in his second semester of English as a second
language at St. Louis Community College at Forest Park. On Thursday, Ali and
classmate Abdul Miakhel (foreground), 25, of Afghanistan, get a lesson in
English sentence structure.

                  Copyright 2002 St. Louis Post-Dispatch, Inc.


                              236 of 275 DOCUMENTS

                       St. Louis Post-Dispatch (Missouri)

                  March 10, 2002 Sunday Five Star Lift Edition

HUNDREDS OF SEPT. 11 DETAINEES WAIT IN JAIL;
 AUTHORITIES HAVE LITTLE OR NO EVIDENCE THEY COMMITTED SERIOUS CRIMES

BYLINE: The Associated Press

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. A14

LENGTH: 567 words

DATELINE: NEWARK, N.J.


Khalid Musa was like a lot of other Middle Eastern men who came to the United
States last summer: young, eager to see relatives and hoping to make a few
dollars while they were here.

And he is like a lot of other Middle Eastern men who have been sitting in jail
cells in the United States since last fall. They have been caught up in a wave
of mass detentions, leaving hundreds still behind bars on immigration charges,
with little or no evidence linking them to a serious crime, let alone the Sept.
11 attacks.

Musa, 23, is a Saudi native who has Australian citizenship but lives in Jordan.
He was arrested Oct. 4 as the government's roundup of recent immigrants shifted
into high gear.

At its peak, the roundup took in more than 1,100 foreigners, mostly of Arab or
South Asian descent. Hundreds have since been released or deported, but the
Justice Department says about 326 remain in custody, most of them in New Jersey
jails.

Special Agent Sandra Carroll, a spokeswoman from the Newark FBI office, defended
the post-Sept. 11 dragnet, noting that the agency had received thousands of tips
and leads from the public, many of which resulted in arrests.

"We're doing our job, investigating Sept. 11 and anthrax, and because we're
finding individuals as a result of our investigation who have violated
immigration law, one doesn't take away from the other," she said.

Carroll could not offer an estimation of how many of those arrested after Sept.
11 were charged with crimes other than immigration violations.

Musa's only transgression was staying in the U.S. beyond the 90 days permitted
under a waiver program that admits people from certain countries without
requiring a visa.

Musa was cleared by the FBI in November, but he remains in jail on the
immigration charges. In mid-February, his lawyer sued the U.S. Immigration and
Naturalization Service to get him deported.

INS spokesman Russ Bergeron disputed claims by detainees' advocates that the
wave of arrests bogged down the system. He noted that the 326 Sept. 11 detainees
still in custody in late February represented only a fraction of the nation's
total immigration detainee population of more than 20,000.

Bergeron also said immigration lawyers are often incorrect in saying their
clients have been cleared by the FBI. "They may have dealt with a local field
agent who said he wasn't interested anymore in their client, but the information
gathered by the field office has to be vetted against all the information that
has been gathered nationwide," Bergeron said.

The government has taken advantage of the secrecy and indefinite suspensions
permitted under the much looser immigration law, instead of the more rigorous
provisions of criminal law. It often refuses to release detainees' names,
countries of origin, what they were charged with, or at times even how many were
being held.

While the detentions may be legal, rights groups say they're far from just. The
government "rounded up a thousand people and hardly found anything," said New
Jersey immigration attorney Sohail Mohamed.

The American Civil Liberties Union's New Jersey chapter is suing in an effort to
get names of all INS detainees.

But INS spokesman Bergeron said the paucity of information will continue.

"Clearly, it is not in the interest of that investigation, the war, or the
United States to provide information to our enemies," he said.

LOAD-DATE: March 10, 2002

LANGUAGE: English

NOTES: 9.11.01: SIX MONTHS LATER

                  Copyright 2002 St. Louis Post-Dispatch, Inc.


                              237 of 275 DOCUMENTS

                       St. Louis Post-Dispatch (Missouri)

                March 13, 2002 Wednesday Five Star Lift Edition

FLIGHT SCHOOL GETS PAPERS ON HIJACKERS' VISA APPROVALS

BYLINE: From News Services

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. A2

LENGTH: 417 words

DATELINE: MIAMI


Exactly six months after terrorists Mohamed Atta and Marwan Al-Shehhi flew two
jetliners into the World Trade Center, the Florida flight school that trained
the men received paperwork showing that their student visas had been approved.

The two suicide hijackers had applied for the visas through their flight school,
Huffman Aviation International, in August 2000. But because of backlogs and an
antiquated processing system at the Immigration and Naturalization Service,
documentation of the approval did not arrive at the Venice, Fla., flight school
until Monday.

Atta and Al-Shehhi trained at Huffman in July 2000. U.S. authorities say Atta
was aboard American Airlines Flight 11, which struck the north tower, and that
Al-Shehhi was aboard United Airlines Flight 175, which struck the south tower 17
minutes later.

The two initially entered the United States on visitor's visas but applied for
an M-1 student visa, given to immigrants attending U.S. technical schools.

A spokesman for the immigration service, Russ Bergeron, said the INS already had
notified the men and the school last summer about the approvals.

The INS approved Atta's request in July and Al-Shehhi's request in August,
Bergeron said.

"The important thing to recognize is the decisions to change their status were
made ... before Sept. 11, and at the time there was no information made
available to INS regarding these people and their link to terrorism," Bergeron
said.

Both men were cleared to stay in the United States until Oct. 1, 2001, according
to the forms, which were provided to The Associated Press by Rudi Dekkers, the
school's owner and president.

Bergeron attributed the embarrassing delay to a backlog of documents at a
federal paperwork processing center in London, Ky.

Rep. John Conyers, the top Democrat on the House Judiciary Committee, said the
visa notice was a sign of the Bush administration's "misguided focus in pursuit
of homeland security."

"I am astonished that while the INS is fixated on detaining and rounding up
countless Arab-Americans without any justification, it has failed to take basic
steps to ensure that visas are not issued to known terrorists," said Conyers,
D-Mich.

Dekkers said Atta and Al-Shehhi completed the paperwork on Aug. 29, 2000, just
before they began their six-month flight instruction program at the school.

Dekkers, who said he faced scrutiny in the media after the attacks for admitting
the students, said the forms showed he had followed the law.

LOAD-DATE: March 13, 2002

LANGUAGE: English

NOTES: WAR ON TERROR

GRAPHIC: PHOTO; (1) Photo headshot -(Mohamed )Atta, Aboard American Airlines
Flight 11; (2) Photo headshot - (Marwan) Al-Shehhi, Aboard United Airlines
Flight 175

                  Copyright 2002 St. Louis Post-Dispatch, Inc.


                              238 of 275 DOCUMENTS

                       St. Louis Post-Dispatch (Missouri)

                   March 14, 2002 Thursday Three Star Edition

BUSH ORDERS IMMIGRATION INQUIRY;
 HE SAYS HE IS "PLENTY HOT" OVER VISAS FOR HIJACKERS

BYLINE: Sonya Ross The Associated Press

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. A1

LENGTH: 730 words

DATELINE: WASHINGTON


President George W. Bush said Wednesday that he was "plenty hot" to learn that
student visas for two Sept. 11 hijackers were delivered months after they flew
planes into the World Trade Center.

He ordered Attorney General John Ashcroft to investigate and urged reform of the
Immigration and Naturalization Service.

Bush described the matter as "a wake-up call for those who run the INS." He said
the agency has antiquated information systems and needs an upgrade. "They got
the message, and hopefully, they'll reform as quickly as possible," Bush said.

The president said he was "stunned, and not happy" when he learned that no one
intercepted the visas for Mohamed Atta and Marwan Al-Shehhi before they arrived
at a Florida flight school Monday.

"Let me put it another way: I was plenty hot," Bush said at a news conference in
the White House briefing room.

Before Bush spoke, Ashcroft directed Justice Department Inspector General Glenn
A. Fine to find out why immigration officials failed to pull the notification
letters and why there was such a long delay in processing them.

The president ordered Ashcroft, whose department includes the INS, and Homeland
Security Director Tom Ridge to investigate and report back to him.

Bush said he was unhappy that the visas remained in the immigration pipeline
even though the names on the forms were widely known. He said INS Commissioner
James Ziglar was responsible for "this embarrassing disclosure" but should be
given a chance to rectify the problem.

"His responsibility is to reform the INS. Let's give him time to do so. He
hasn't been there that long," Bush said.

Sen. Bob Graham, D-Fla., chairman of the Senate Intelligence Committee, said he
would propose changes in the way the INS issues and monitors student visas.
Specifically, Graham called for cross-checking records among police departments,
intelligence agencies and Interpol, the global law enforcement arm, "to provide
a more complete profile of prospective immigrants."

On Monday, exactly six months after the attacks, Huffman Aviation in Venice,
Fla., received student visa approval forms for Atta, 33, and Al-Shehhi, 23. The
men were aboard separate hijacked planes that struck the World Trade Center
towers, killing thousands.

The pair trained at Huffman in 2000 and early 2001 and sought student visas so
they could attend technical schools. The visa for Atta, of Egypt, was approved
in July 2001, and a visa for Al-Shehhi, of United Arab Emirates, was approved
the following month, said Russ Bergeron, an immigration agency spokesman.

Bergeron described the paperwork the flight school received as a backstop on
notification the INS gave the men and the school last summer. He said the INS
had no information "regarding these people and their link to terrorism" when the
visas were granted.

INS officials assured a Kentucky congressman on Wednesday that a federal
processing center in London, Ky., was not responsible for the delayed paperwork.
The agency said Affiliated Computer Services Inc. processed and returned the
documents to the INS within the time stipulated by its contract, said Dan
DuBray, spokesman for Rep. Harold Rogers, R-Ky.

"We were very concerned about the impression that this contractor was given the
blame for the agency's process," DuBray said. "The contractor performed the
contract the way it was supposed to."

Affiliated Computer Services has a five-year, $75 million contract with the INS
to process paperwork involving foreigners visiting the United States. Lesley
Pool, the company's chief marketing officer, said the data it processes belong
to its clients, and "our role is purely handling the paper."

Rep. Mark Foley, R-Fla., whose district borders the flight school, said the INS
can't blame a lack of money or equipment.

"How this wasn't discovered by even a rank-and-file worker is beyond my
comprehension," Foley said. "Anything with Mohamed Atta's name on it should send
alarm bells blasting."

Senate Majority Leader Tom Daschle, D-S.D., called the hijacker visas "one of
the most embarrassing incidents since 9/11." He called for Ridge to testify
before Congress on issues involving his office.

According to the visa forms, provided to The Associated Press by flight school
owner Rudi Dekkers, both Atta and Al-Shehhi were cleared to remain in the United
States until Oct. 1, 2001.

LOAD-DATE: March 14, 2002

LANGUAGE: English

                  Copyright 2002 St. Louis Post-Dispatch, Inc.


                              239 of 275 DOCUMENTS

                       St. Louis Post-Dispatch (Missouri)

                 March 16, 2002 Saturday Five Star Lift Edition

INS REASSIGNS 4 OVER HIJACKER VISA FOUL-UP

BYLINE: From News Services

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 9

LENGTH: 476 words

DATELINE: WASHINGTON


* No one was fired by the Immigration and Naturalization Service. The agency
would not identify the four employees.

The Immigration and Naturalization Service reassigned four midlevel managers
Friday in the wake of the sending of visa approval notices for two Sept. 11
hijackers six months after they flew airliners into the World Trade Center.

The Immigration Service commissioner, James Ziglar, said the breakdown that led
to the notices being issued was a "breakdown in communication" that is
"unacceptable and will not be allowed." No one was fired.

Attorney General John Ashcroft also asked Congress on Friday to give him back
authority to fire INS employees for violations of Justice Department rules. Such
power was not included in the current budget proposal.

"It is essential that I have the authority to quickly discipline or terminate
individuals for acts of negligence, mismanagement or disregard for Department of
Justice policies," Ashcroft said.

"Today, more than ever, we need to ensure that America's borders are secure and
that proper enforcement actions are being taken against those unlawfully present
in the United States," Ashcroft wrote in a letter to Congress.

On Monday, Huffman Aviation in Venice, Fla., received student visa approval
forms for Mohamed Atta and Marwan al-Shehhi, two of the terrorists who flew
hijacked jetliners into the World Trade Center. The two had trained at Huffman
in 2000 and early 2001 and applied for visas to attend technical schools.

The changes at INS, affecting four career employees, came two days after
President George W. Bush ordered Ashcroft to investigate the latest
embarrassment to hit the agency. Officials did not identify the four employees
who were reassigned, citing privacy laws.

The four had managed immigration operations that have come under recent
criticism: regional service centers, including the one that mailed out the visas
to the hijackers; INS activities abroad as well as refugees and asylum seekers;
daily operations throughout the agency; and INS inspection teams at ports of
entry.

Ashcroft has asked the Justice Department inspector general to inve stigate what
happened. On Thursday, the attorney general had threatened to "hold individuals
accountable" and called this week's incident "inexcusable, in my judgment."

Immigration officials have said that the visa for Atta, an Egyptian, was
approved in July and the visa for al-Shehhi, from the United Arab Emirates, in
August.

The paperwork received by the flight school was a routine repeat of
notifications the INS gave to the men and the school last summer.

Rep. Mark Foley, R-Fla., said there needs to be "a complete top-to-bottom
scrubbing of an agency completely sullied."

Foley, whose congressional district borders the flight school, called the
reassignments a "strong first step."

LOAD-DATE: March 16, 2002

LANGUAGE: English

NOTES: WAR ON TERROR

                  Copyright 2002 St. Louis Post-Dispatch, Inc.


                              240 of 275 DOCUMENTS

                       St. Louis Post-Dispatch (Missouri)

                  March 17, 2002 Sunday Five Star Lift Edition

IMMIGRATION AGENCY IS HINDERED BY ITS OUTDATED TECHNOLOGY;
 CONGRESS DELAYED PROGRAMS SUCH AS ONE TO TRACK FOREIGN STUDENTS

BYLINE: Karen Branch-Brioso Post-Dispatch Washington Bureau

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. A1

LENGTH: 1302 words

DATELINE: WASHINGTON


President George W. Bush said he was stunned last week when a Florida flight
school received visa approval notices for two terrorists -- six months after the
men crashed airliners into the World Trade Center towers.

Attorney General John Ashcroft called for an investigation.

"Fortunately, I only damaged the television set in a minor way when I got the
news," Ashcroft said.

The flight school owner who received the visa notices, Rudi Dekkers, was also
surprised when he saw the names "Mohamed Atta" and "Marwan Al-Shehhi" on the
paperwork. But the timing?

"That didn't surprise me at all," he said.

Dekkers and others who deal with the U.S. Immigration and Naturalization Service
long ago became accustomed to the delays and lack of communications that have
plagued almost every area of the agency's functions - from citizenship
applications to changes in foreign-student visas to detaining illegal aliens.

Even before last week's embarrassment, both the Bush administration and Congress
had proposed to revamp the troubled agency.

Communication breakdowns - between humans and, particularly, computer systems -
have led to a number of scathing condemnations of the immigration service. Among
them:

* Despite police requests, the agency never placed a criminal alert next to its
fingerprint records of Angel Maturino Resendiz, aka Rafael Resendez, the Mexican
national with a two-decade rap sheet in seven states, including Missouri. He was
caught eight times trying to enter the United States illegally but was released
in Mexico, even after he was accused of murder. Resendiz returned to the United
States to commit several murders, two in Illinois, before he turned himself in.

* In testimony before Congress last year, Glenn Fine, Justice Department
inspector general, noted that despite several years of recommendations, the
immigration service and the FBI still had not integrated their fingerprint
databases to track criminal aliens.

* A 1998 report showed that the immigration service and State Department never
performed terrorism checks on most asylum applicants - which led to the entry
into the United States of a man later arrested for a plot to bomb the New York
City subway.

The Immigration and Naturalization Service is not alone in its technological
lapses and dependence on paper-based files. The misplacement of files that led
to a delay in the execution of Oklahoma City bomber Timothy McVeigh was
attributed, in large part, to the FBI's failure to maintain complete electronic
case files.

Skipping the 20th century

But even as the immigration service's caseload numbers have swelled, along with
its budget and employees, it has been consistently late in getting the
technology needed to keep pace, according to former and current immigration
officials.

"When I was commissioner, we were a light-year behind in technology in an agency
that probably had the same kind of workload as Social Security or the IRS," said
Gene McNary, the former St. Louis County executive who led the agency from 1989
to 1993.

"The Justice Department, when it goes to Congress for funding, thinks in terms
of FBI and DEA - the agencies that go after the bad guys. Immigration has always
been back-burner, and, yet with a tremendous responsibility. If there was a
problem on the southwest border, or if Haitians took to the boats, there would
be a crisis, and money was shifted from information systems. So INS has had to
catch up. During my time, we'd always say we hoped to go from the 19th century
to the 21st century in technology. We skipped the 20th century altogether."

Still, the agency's budget has ballooned over the decade - from $1.5 billion to
$5.5 billion this year - with millions set aside along the way for technology
upgrades. When McNary left in 1993, he said, there was a plan in the works for a
computer system to track foreign students. In a massive shuffling of immigration
laws three years later, Congress required the agency to put the system into
place - as well as a computerized system to track immigrants when they leave,
and not just when they enter the country.

But until Sept. 11, Congress had repeatedly approved delays in the programs.
Higher education lobbyists didn't like the foreign-student tracking. Business
interests in border states didn't want the delays that they believed would hurt
businesses who depend on easy flow of traffic from Mexico and Canada.

The terrorist attacks led to a change of heart. Now border security plans in
Congress suggest having an entry-exit system in place by next fall. The
foreign-student tracking database is set for January.

A Kentucky company, Affiliated Computer Services Inc., landed a $74 million
agency contract last October to convert paper forms into computer images. The
company will scan in arrival and departure forms for foreign visitors - as well
as the visas for foreign students studying at vocational schools.

The terrorists' visas

Ironically, Affiliated Computer Services was the same private company that
inadvertently launched last week's uproar; it handled the visa documents for
Atta and Al-Shehhi.

The immigration service, which had no knowledge that the men had ties to
terrorism, approved the visas last summer, a year after Atta and Al-Shehhi
applied and months after their training ended.

The government's contract with Affiliated Computer required the documents to be
stored six months before they were mailed out. The act of terrorism that made
Atta and Al-Shehhi household names did nothing to stop the plodding agency's
process.

Problem is, the agency forgot to tell Affiliated Computer contractor to cancel
the mailing.

"The breakdown in communication, highlighted by this week's events at INS, is
unacceptable and will not be allowed," Commissioner James Ziglar said in the
statement announcing his replacement of four agency administrators.

Lesley Pool, chief marketing officer for Affiliated Computer Services, noted
that the new contract limits the storage time for visa copies to 30 days.

Proposals for change

Now, more than ever, following through with the technology is crucially
important in an agency that last year processed 8 million applications such as
visas and citizenship petitions. Agency officials conduct more than 500 million
inspections at airports, seaports and border crossings every year. They seize
more than 1 million illegal immigrants on the Mexican border alone.

Rep. John Shimkus, R-Ill., said technology is what prompted him on Tuesday to
become the latest co-sponsor of a bill sponsored by Rep. George Sensenbrenner,
R-Wis. The bill would abolish the immigration service and place its functions
under two separate agencies: one for services and one for enforcement. The bill
also would set up an Internet-based system for all it service functions.

Shimkus says his constituents in Southern Illinois often complain of having to
travel to Chicago to apply for INS services. A Shimkus staff member also had a
beef with the agency during her adoption of a Chinese girl.

"She made all the applications, and they lost the file - and she had to start
all over again," Shimkus said. "If you go to an electronic database system you
should have better control of files."

Bush's plan would keep the INS but separate the service and enforcement
functions with separate lines of authority for each.

Some worry that the solution could make the problem worse.

Fine, the Justice Department inspector general, has testified before Congress
that the separation of the agency's functions could hamper improvements in
communication.

"Both enforcement and service agencies require access to many of the same INS
databases and documents," he said. "Breaking the INS into two agencies could
potentially exacerbate coordination problems."

LOAD-DATE: March 17, 2002

LANGUAGE: English

NOTES: Reporter Karen Branch-Brioso:; E-mail: kbranch@post-dispatch.com; Phone:
202-298-6880

TYPE: PROFILE; IMMIGRATION AND NATURALIZATION SERVICE

                  Copyright 2002 St. Louis Post-Dispatch, Inc.


                              241 of 275 DOCUMENTS

                       St. Louis Post-Dispatch (Missouri)

                  March 18, 2002 Monday Five Star Lift Edition

GAY TRAILBLAZER PREFERS LABEL OF "GOOD AND COMPASSIONATE"

BYLINE: Lorraine Kee Of The Post-Dispatch

SECTION: EVERYDAY MAGAZINE; Pg. D1

LENGTH: 1425 words


* Marcelo Tenorio, 39, a Brazilian now living in the Metro East area, was a
cause celebre in 1993 when he became what may be the first person to be granted
asylum by a U.S. immigration judge in a decision based solely on sexual
persecution in the emigre's homeland.

Today, Marcelo Tenorio lives what he considers a contented life. He works as a
personal care attendant, enjoys a tight circle of friends and adores his cocker
spaniel, named Michael Jackson.

They live in a house in the Metro East area with an elderly landlord.

"I'm happy all the time," said Tenorio, 39, sitting at one end of a couch in a
friend's home.

Still, Tenorio is friendly but guarded during an interview, which takes place at
the friend's house and not his own place because his landlord do esn't want
trouble. Even Tenorio, at first, isn't sure he wants to go forward. He's unsure
what he will get out of opening up.

But he warms up a little, enough to give a glimmer of his life since he was once
a cause celebre in the gay rights movement. He sits in the neat, cozy living
room and appears fit, under the plaid shirt and slacks. His hair is in braids,
which he did himself the night before. Few people here know about Tenorio's old
life. And it doesn't matter to his friends now. They see him as a good and
compassionate person, not a trailblazer.

A decade ago though, Tenorio awoke to a knock at the door of his apartment in
San Francisco that would thrust him into the forefront of the gay rights
movement.

"It was a nice knock," Tenorio recalled. Even so, he wasn't expecting anyone at
that hour -- 7 in the morning. Any uneasiness subsided when he saw through the
peephole a friendly-looking woman on the other side.

"I'm looking for Marcelo Tenorio," he remembered her saying. "He's a painter,
and I wanted him to paint my house."

At the time, he needed the money. When he opened the door, two big men rushed
in. They identified themselves as agents with the U.S. Immigration and
Naturalization Service.

"I start to cry," Tenorio recalled. "I was like, 'that's the end of my life.' "

He thought he might be deported, back to Brazil. Actually, his new life was just
beginning.

Persecuted social group

After his arrest in 1992, Tenorio sought asylum in this country. He was among a
new, small group of gays seeking refuge on the basis of sexual persecution in
their home countries. Widely recognized as the first case of its kind was the
matter of Fidel Armando Toboso-Alfonso, who came to the United States from Cuba
during the Mariel boatlift in 1980. Toboso-Alfonso said he was fleeing gay
persecution in Cuba and an immigration judge withheld his deportation in 1986
though he wasn't granted asylum.

Tenorio, who had come here illegally in 1990 with the help of friends in the
United States, may have been the first granted asylum by an immigration judge.

"I believe it was the first case in which an immigration judge granted asylum
based solely on a person's sexual orientation," said Jon Davidson, senior
counsel with the Lambda Legal Defense and Education Fund, a New York-based legal
defense organization for lesbians and gays. Davidson is based in Lambda's Los
Angeles office.

Under immigration law, asylum is granted to refugees who can prove past
persecution in their home country or a well-founded fear of persecution because
of their race, religion, nationality, political opinion or membership in a
particular social group.

At the time, gays were not considered members of a persecuted social group, said
Sydney Levy, spokesman for the San Francisco-based International Gay and Lesbian
Human Rights Commission. The commission is an advocacy group that also documents
cases of persecution.

Seeking asylum on the basis of being a member of a particular social group is
cited the least by refugees because it is the least defined of the grounds for
asylum, making it difficult to prove, said Stephen Legomsky, professor of
international and comparative law at Washington University. Before the matters
of Toboso-Alfonso and Tenorio, only a few groups (including women and elite
social groups) had been able to use it successfully, Legomsky said.

Tenorio's case made headlines from New York to Rio de Janeiro. He pulled
clippings from a case, including one from The New York Times. In San Francisco,
he told his story not only to an immigration judge but also at a news
conference.

In Rio de Janeiro, he'd just left a gay disco late one night in 1989 to catch a
bus when a car pulled up beside him. The men inside started screaming slurs at
him and then jumped out and beat him before one of them stabbed him in the side.
He woke up in the hospital the next morning, too afraid to report the incident
to police.

"The police don't come and ask you . . . the only thing they're going to say to
you is that it's because you're in a gay area," Tenorio said. "You cannot fight
with them. If you are going to argue with them, they're going to put you in
jail.

"I went home and started to live my life again."

Or so he thought. He never went back to that bar and was out of work for two
weeks. And he was even more wary about "looking too gay" in public. Two men
could never hold hands on the streets of Rio de Janeiro without being harassed,
despite that city's reputation for openness because of its carnival parade, he
said.

"I was scared," Tenorio said.

He said he'd applied to come to the United States legally -- for a tourist visa
-- but was always turned down. Rightfully turned down, he added, because
authorities suspected that if he came here he would never go back to Brazil. He
wouldn't have.

Tenorio said he imagined this country to be a place where he could be more open
about his sexual orientation. Where, he imagined, he could walk down the street
holding the hand of his partner. Where he would not be assaulted because he was
gay. Where the police would protect him if someone harassed him. The American
tourists in Brazil had always been so accepting.

"So I always wanted," he said, "a place of freedom where I could live."

Eventually some of those tourists-turned-friends would help him get out of
Brazil into Mexico and then from Mexico to San Diego.

"It cost about $50,000 to pay for me to come here," said Tenorio, who won't
divulge much else about the journey.

San Francisco, America, was everything he'd imagined it would be. He felt free
to be himself. Until that is, the day the INS came knocking.

Freedom found, pets lost

To this day, Tenorio isn't sure how reporters got wind of his story. He believes
his friends in San Francisco got in touch with gay activists who in turn leaked
his story to reporters. Immigration matters aren't typically published, which
partly explains why there are no reliable numbers for how often gay refugees
have cited persecution in their home countries as grounds for asylum.

In July 1993, Judge Philip P. Leadbetter granted Tenorio's request for asylum.
The INS appealed, but six years later the Board of Immigration Appeals dismissed
the case. Meanwhile, in June 1994, Attorney General Janet Reno made the
Toboso-Alfonso case a legal precedent.

Reno's decision does not guarantee asylum to gays but "at least you now had
equal (legal) footing," said Levy, for the gay and lesbian human rights
commission.

A couple of years ago, Tenorio moved to the St. Louis area to be with his
partner. Mostly, he has found the freedom he left Brazil to find.

"I can tell everybody I'm gay," Tenorio said.

He has been free to be himself. Well, almost free. His Metro East community is a
conservative one compared with San Francisco, where he once felt free to hold
hands with a partner on the street. And he recalled another instance when "I
felt it's not too free to do what you want," he said.

"That's when they took my animals away from me," Tenorio said.

In January, he was notified by the Metro East city of O'Fallon that he was
violating zoning regulations for a residential neighborhood by caring for too
many cats and dogs -- 128 cats and 18 dogs -- under one roof. Tenorio has since
moved, but before he did he arranged to have the animals sent to shelters where
they would be cared for and not euthanized.

By his own admission, finding places for the strays was a lot of work and
expense. And he still misses them.

"I want to protect them," said Tenorio, adding that he had been an orphan
himself. "It's like my nature. They're innocent. I want to take care of those
animals. I felt like I would give them the world."

Or at least a better life.

LOAD-DATE: March 18, 2002

LANGUAGE: English

NOTES: Reporter Lorraine Kee:; E-mail: lkee@post-dispatch.com Phone:
314-340-8255

GRAPHIC: PHOTO; Color Photo by J.B. FORBES / POST-DISPATCH - Marcelo Tenorio,
who experienced a breakthrough in the push for gay rights when he became one of
the first people to be granted U.S. asylum because of gay harassment in his
homeland, Brazil, talks about his ordeal from a friend's home in the Metro East
area. Tenorio lived in San Francisco at the time an immigration judge granted
him asylum.

TYPE: PROFILE; MARCELO TENORIO; U.S. ASYLUM FROM SEXUAL PERSECUTION

                  Copyright 2002 St. Louis Post-Dispatch, Inc.


                              242 of 275 DOCUMENTS

                       St. Louis Post-Dispatch (Missouri)

                  March 25, 2002 Monday Five Star Lift Edition

BUSH WANTS MORE TRADE IN CENTRAL AMERICA;
 PRESIDENT MEETS LEADERS IN EL SALVADOR

BYLINE: Sonya Ross The Associated Press

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. A1

LENGTH: 719 words

DATELINE: SAN SALVADOR, EL SALVADOR


President George W. Bush held out the promise Sunday of expanded trade to
Central American nations, saying countries once decimated by civil war now
deserve jobs as a reward for the way they have "changed old ways and have found
new wealth and new freedom."

Bush paid a six-hour visit to El Salvador to discuss the possibilities of a
Central American trade pact with Salvadoran President Francisco Flores and other
leaders from the region. The sessions closed a four-day tour of Latin America in
which Bush pushed open markets, anti-terrorism efforts and more foreign aid for
developing nations that flush out corruption.

Bush also pledged Sunday to pursue a trade agreement for all the Americas and
promote immigration policies that would establish temporary protective status
for some immigrants whose visas have expired. He also promised to increase to
$100 million, from $67 million, the assistance to help El Salvador's recovery
from two earthquakes early last year.

Over lunch with the leaders of El Salvador, Belize, Guatemala, Nicaragua, Costa
Rica, Honduras and Panama, Bush said he wanted to energize Congress behind the
regional trade proposal that he submitted in January, although the matter, for
now, is "at the working level," said Sean McCormack, a White House spokesman.

Secretary of State Colin Powell acknowledged Sunday that no Central American
trade deal was likely to be reached soon. The administration has a number of
trade agreements lined up and is trying to craft them into one trade policy
before entering trade talks, he said.

"He'll want to hear from the leaders . . . and then we'll take those messages
back, as we structure our overall trade policy," Powell said.

Bush noted that millions of Salvadorans living in the United States were
propping up El Salvador's economy by sending almost $2 billion a year back to
their families. He suggested that more trade would give these workers the option
of finding employment in their native land that pays enough to sustain a high
quality of life.

"Trade means jobs," Bush said. "Trade means people who want to work are more
likely to find jobs in both countries."

Flores agreed. "The only way to come out of poverty is through work," he said.
Just the fact that Bush expressed a desire for a trade pact "will cause
investors to approach our countries to be in the region when the treaty takes
effect," he said.

Even as they spoke, the newspaper La Prensa Grafica reported polls Sunday that
showed more than half of Salvadorans would like to move to the United States.
Peaceful protesters took to the streets to decry U.S. economic and cultural
outreach as a corrosive presence in Salvadoran society - and to pay homage to
late Archbishop Oscar Arnulfo Romero, a critic of government repression who was
assassinated 22 years ago Sunday.

As much as Bush advocated knocking down trade barriers, he also faced criticism
that he has erected two new ones, in the form of tariffs on imported steel and
Canadian softwood lumber. The administration said the tariffs were imposed
because of unfair trading practices. They also make it easier politically for
some lawmakers to give him more authority to negotiate trade agreements.

Bush said he envisioned strong ties of "commerce and culture and kinship" with
Central America, building on relations with El Salvador. Regional leaders
already have responded with finance ministers' meetings in Washington, El
Salvador and Nicaragua.

"Many countries in this region have changed old ways and have found new wealth
and new freedom," Bush said. "In this coming decade, El Salvador and the United
States, and nations throughout this hemisphere are committed to maintaining and
extending this progress. Greater trade can help us accomplish this goal."

Democrats have accused Bush of making the Latin American trip to pander to
Hispanic voters.

Bush said he was disappointed by the criticism. "When I first got elected, I
said the best foreign policy for the United States is to have a prosperous,
peaceful and free neighborhood," he said.

Bush also praised El Salvador as "one of the really bright lights in Latin
America," primarily because its people managed to turn their country around
within a decade, despite the twin devastation of civil war and earthquakes.

LOAD-DATE: March 25, 2002

LANGUAGE: English

GRAPHIC: PHOTO; THE ASSOCIATED PRESS Photos; (1) Photo - Children wave U.S. and
Salvadoran flags to celebrate the arrival of President George W. Bush in San
Salvador on Sunday.; (2) Color Photo - President George W. Bush and El
Salvador's President Francisco Flores take part in an arrival ceremony at the
airport in San Salvador on Sunday. (* Note: This photo ran only in the THREE
STAR edition, page A1.)

                  Copyright 2002 St. Louis Post-Dispatch, Inc.


                              243 of 275 DOCUMENTS

                       St. Louis Post-Dispatch (Missouri)

                 March 28, 2002 Thursday Five Star Lift Edition

FOUR ALLEGEDLY DUPED IMMIGRANTS WHO WANTED TO BE U.S. CITIZENS ;
 VICTIMS WERE SWORN IN BY BOGUS JUDGE, AUTHORITIES SAY ;
 SOME REPORTEDLY PAID $25,000

BYLINE: The Associated Press

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. A11

LENGTH: 268 words

DATELINE: LOS ANGELES


Four people were charged with taking money from immigrants seeking to become
U.S. citizens and then staging bogus naturalization ceremonies complete with
fake judges.

A yearlong investigation dubbed "Operation Charade" led to the arrests Tuesday
of Elzbieta Malgorzata Bugajska, 50; John Patrick Bradley, 56; Yolanda Miel
Lubiano, 62; and Lorena Velasquez Garcia, 39, a 15-year employee of the Social
Security Administration.

Most of the victims were Koreans and Filipinos who were promised that their
immigration applications would receive fast-track processing.

The scam included giving victims a quiz on American history and politics and
leading them in the Pledge of Allegiance during staged ceremonies, Assistant
U.S. Attorney Andrew Cowan said. Some of those who were duped paid as much as
$25,000, authorities said.

Immigration and Naturalization Service investigators said victims told them of a
swearing-in ceremony at Lubiano's home in October 2000. At the ceremony, Bradley
wore a judge's robe and conferred "citizenship" on 14 people, authorities said.

Authorities also accused Bugajska of selling immigrants genuine Social Security
cards, allegedly obtained from Garcia, for $750.

All four defendants are charged with one count of mail fraud, and Bugajska and
Bradley are also charged with impersonating federal judges.

Bugajska, a Polish citizen, is the suspected leader of the scheme. She
masqueraded as an immigration consultant, Cowan said.

The indictment alleges that the ring defrauded at least 25 immigrants, but
investigators believe there may be many more.

LOAD-DATE: March 28, 2002

LANGUAGE: English

                  Copyright 2002 St. Louis Post-Dispatch, Inc.


                              244 of 275 DOCUMENTS

                       St. Louis Post-Dispatch (Missouri)

                 March 30, 2002 Saturday Five Star Lift Edition

FIVE CALIFORNIA SLAYINGS TIED TO RUSSIAN MOB ARE SAID TO BE AN ABERRATION

BYLINE: The Associated Press

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 23

LENGTH: 525 words

DATELINE: LOS ANGELES


* Officials have arrested six Russian men as suspects in the kidnappings and
killings of five immigrants, saying they are part of organized crime. But
violence is rare for America's Russian mob, authorities say.

Five Los Angeles residents vanish over a span of six months. Faxes from Russia
demand millions in ransom; one desperate family wires $200,000 to various banks.

Four of the five are Russian immigrants. All five turn up dead, their corpses
bound and dumped in a reservoir in California's Sierra foothills.

Authorities say the kidnappings are part of a Russian organized crime plot, and
they have arrested six Russian men as suspects.

But as ruthlessly efficient as the crime might appear, experts and federal
authorities say violence is rare for America's Russian mob. They also say the
criminals lack the efficient edge of La Cosa Nostra or the drug cartels south of
the border.

The kidnappers even left a credit card and money trail that investigators could
follow.

"Russian organized crime just isn't that organized," says William Callahan, a
former federal prosecutor in New York. "They are clannish and thuggish - but
they have never developed the organization of the old Italian Mafia."

What passes for the Russian mob in America is believed to be hundreds or
thousands of small criminal enterprises, connected by blood, religion, ethnicity
or expediency. They are a growing presence among Eastern European immigrants in
New York, Los Angeles, Miami, Toronto and Portland, says American University's
Louise Shelley, an expert on international crime.

Experts say most Russian-speaking criminals are clever opportunists who grew up
in a society where scamming the government was a way of survival. They prefer
fraud over kidnapping, deceit over muscle.

"We haven't run across a lot of stuff that has been heinous and bloody," said
Larry Cho, an assistant U.S. attorney in Los Angeles. "If you can make millions
defrauding the government, why get your hands dirty?"

Los Angeles Police Lt. Dan Hooper says that the Russians "are intelligent
people, and they come over here and see all these programs are offered by the
country and the state. And they see these programs aren't policed well, and they
just jump in with both feet."

A Medicaid scam in Los Angeles in 1996 reaped millions before authorities broke
it up. One group recently scammed a small fortune from California's recycling
program.

Less sophisticated mobsters resort to old-fashioned shakedowns for pro tection
money in the ethnic neighborhoods of Hollywood and Brooklyn's Brighton Beach.

Now, Russian-speaking criminals are branching out into vice. Some use false
documents to smuggle Eastern European women into the country and set them up as
prostitutes.

"They are really good at forgery and fraudulent production of immigration
documents," says Los Angeles' Hooper.

Which is why the recent murders stand out.

The bodies were found in New Melones Lake near Sacramento between October and
last week. The six men in custody are charged with hostage-taking or receiving
ransom money. The kidnapers demanded more than $5.5 million in ransom.

LOAD-DATE: March 30, 2002

LANGUAGE: English

NOTES: NATION / WORLD

GRAPHIC: PHOTO; Photo by THE ASSOCIATED PRESS - Pedestrians walk past a grocery
store window in Little Russia in West Hollywood, Calif., earlier this week. The
text is in English and Cyrillic, a Slavic alphabet still used in Russia. The
Russian mob is a growing presence among Eastern European immigrants in Los
Angeles, police say.

                  Copyright 2002 St. Louis Post-Dispatch, Inc.


                              245 of 275 DOCUMENTS

                       St. Louis Post-Dispatch (Missouri)

                 April 11, 2002 Thursday Five Star Lift Edition

ANTI-CLINTON GROUP RAISES NEW COMPLAINT ABOUT ELIAN GONZALEZ CASE

BYLINE: The Associated Press

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. A2

LENGTH: 313 words

DATELINE: MIAMI


The head of the Immigration and Naturalization Service ordered the destruction
of an e-mail that a group describing itself as a legal watchdog argues could
have bolstered the request for asylum filed for Elian Gonzalez during the Cuban
boy's stay in Miami.

A handwritten notation at the bottom of an Immigration Service memo dated Dec.
29, 1999, said that Doris Meissner, then the agency's commissioner, ordered the
memo destroyed the next day, said Judicial Watch, a group that filed dozens of
lawsuits against President Bill Clinton.

Meissner said Wednesday that she did not recall ordering that a specific
document be destroyed but described a standing policy that no notes be taken or
memos disseminated about the boy's case because of the sensitivity of the issue.

Elian Gonzalez was rescued at sea off Florida in November 1999 after his mother
and most of the other passengers traveling illegally from Cuba to the United
States died when their boat capsized. The boy was temporarily placed with
relatives in Miami who, backed by other Cuban exiles, fought to keep the child
in the United States.

A copy of the 1991 memo survived. It discussed the possibility that Elian's
father at one time sought a visa to move to the United States. It also discussed
allegations that the Cuban government had been coercing the father, Juan Miguel
Gonzalez.

If coercion could be shown, the e-mail memo said, the Immigration Service could
"potentially accept the child's asylum application and advise that there is no
prohibition on age to child filing application. As such PA should proceed."

"PA" apparently refers to "political asylum."

The memo was written by Immigration Service attorney Rebeca Sanchez Roig, who
added the handwritten notation to a printout some time later.

Meissner said the memo showed that the decision to return the boy to Cuba was
much debated.

LOAD-DATE: April 11, 2002

LANGUAGE: English

                  Copyright 2002 St. Louis Post-Dispatch, Inc.


                              246 of 275 DOCUMENTS

                       St. Louis Post-Dispatch (Missouri)

                  April 29, 2002 Monday Five Star Lift Edition

RETIRED LIBRARIAN IS TIRELESS IN EFFORTS OF FOREIGN EXCHANGE

BYLINE: Esther Talbot Fenning Special To The St. Charles County Post

SECTION: ST. CHARLES COUNTY POST; Neighbors Column; Pg. 7

LENGTH: 802 words


* Jenny Preston teaches beginner classes in English to area immigrants, sponsors
foreign students and volunteers to help refugees.

Jenny Preston has been fascinated with foreign culture since she was a high
school sophomore and had to compile international scrapbooks from National
Geographic photographs as a history assignment.

Preston, 62, went on to study French at the University of Caen in Normandy,
France, and to graduate from Lindenwood College with a degree in French.

She is a retired librarian who has a strong background in helping to make
foreigners feel at home on American soil.

She participated in the St. Louis Chapter of the American Field Service, a high
school exchange program, and served as a volunteer with the International
Institute, a refugee resettlement center in St. Louis. She remains active in the
Washington University Host Program, where she currently sponsors a Greek student
and three Koreans.

And she kept the scrapbooks.

The English as a Second Language program at St. Charles Community College is
making use of Preston's skills. After volunteering as a teacher's helper in the
program, she was given a class of her own and eventually put on the payroll.

She currently teaches four beginner classes in English. The majority of her
students are from Mexico, she said, with others from countries throughout South
America and Asia. Preston described her job as "endlessly fascinating."

Her students' ages range from 16 to 66 years. There are housewives and
restaurant workers, landscapers, horse trainers and cleaning service employees.

Preston says most of her students and most foreigners who live in St. Charles
are immigrants rather than refugees.

"Immigrants choose to come here. They have a strong family network, and they
have some idea of what they are getting into," she explained. "They're trying
very hard to learn English so they can cope with this culture and get better
jobs."

Preston explained that the International Institute services refugees who would
not have chosen to leave their countries, such as the Bosnians who fled during
the war in their homeland.

"They've lost their homes, family connections and money," Preston said. "They
are under a time constraint to learn the language and culture so that they can
get jobs and earn money.

"This lends a good deal of urgency to the learning and assimilation process."

Preston said that ESL instructors teach by using charades, pictures and
bilingual dictionaries when the explication is too abstract. Words and verbs are
taught in the context of life situations.

There are units on food and supermarkets, for example. Another is on health.
They learn the parts of the body, how to make a doctor's appointment and how to
say what hurts.

Then there are names, addresses, and Social Security and telephone numbers that
are so crucial in American society.

"We also work on a family unit, which is something they can easily identify,"
she said.

After she retired from her job as manager of the information systems library at
McDonnell Douglas, Preston turned her home in Lafayette Square into a bed and
breakfast establishment. She had worked on the restoration of the home for 19
years and ran the bed and breakfast from 1994 to 1998.

"It was a fabulous experience, and I just loved it," she said.

Preston is the daughter of Virginia Terry of St. Charles. Terry is the retired
librarian for the St. Charles City School District. Before moving to St. Charles
18 months ago, Preston and her husband, Bob Adams, lived on the 25th floor of
the Mansion House overlooking the St. Louis riverfront.

Preston has a variety of interests. She is a voracious reader of mysteries and
likes to embroider. She and her husband deliver meals on wheels once a week to
shut-ins.

The ESL enrollment for this academic year at St. Charles Community college is
256 students - compared with 68 last year, according to college data. The
students represent 42 countries.

The learning climate is a classic example of the American melting pot, Preston
said, where students from hostile countries work side by side.

Preston said that teaching English to foreign students is rewarding and
enlightening. "It's wonderful to watch them gain confidence in English," she
said. "We don't fully appreciate how complex our language is until we try to
teach it to someone who has never spoken it."

===

Jenny Preston

* Occupation: Teaches English as a Second Language at St. Charles Community
College.

* Age: 62.

* Residence: St. Charles.

* Volunteer background: Has been involved in foreign exchange programs and
teaching for the International Institute -a refugee resettlement center in St.
Louis and the Washington University Host Program, where she currently sponsors a
Greek student and three Koreans.

LOAD-DATE: April 29, 2002

LANGUAGE: English

NOTES: NEIGHBORS

GRAPHIC: PHOTO; Photo by NICK KRUG - Jenny Preston, a St. Charles resident and
English as a Second Language teacher at St. Charles Community College, describes
a kitchen utensil that she has asked her students to identify in a class last
Thursday.

TYPE: PROFILE; JENNY PRESTON

                  Copyright 2002 St. Louis Post-Dispatch, Inc.


                              247 of 275 DOCUMENTS

                       St. Louis Post-Dispatch (Missouri)

                  May 2, 2002 Thursday Five Star Lift Edition

CRESTWOOD ELEMENTARY STUDENTS STUDY FOREIGN LANGUAGE: ENGLISH CHILDREN OF
IMMIGRANTS GET SPECIAL HELP TO LEARN NEW WAY TO SPEAK, READ, WRITE, ABSORB NEW
CULTURE AS WELL AS SCHOOLWORK

BYLINE: Theresa Tighe Of The Post-Dispatch

SECTION: SOUTH POST; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 460 words


Chris Sengsouriya, 6, is from a Laotian family, and at the beginning of this
school year Chris already knew some English. Now he knows more.On a recent day,
speaking English without an accent, he told his kindergarten teacher that he
would rather eat his cookies than share them.

Chris is one of 40 children who have immigrant parents and attend Crestwood
Elementary School in the Lindbergh School District. The children are learning to
speak, read and write English. The district has nearly 2,000 elementary-school
students.

The majority of the English-as-a-second-language children, 80 percent, are
Bosnian or Croatian. St. Louis is a refugee resettlement area for those two
countries. Many of them live in apartments in the district, including Concord
Village, Grantwood Village and Gravois View.

Children also come to the program from Romania, Korea, Vietnam, Laos, Albania
and China. The family's native language is spoken in most homes. Among the most
interesting of the fledgling English speakers are the kindergartners who at the
start know little English, although some of their families, such as Chris', are
bilingual.

The school's principal, Sue Sullivan, recalled how things were before the
program began.

"I saw kindergartners who at first understood nothing," she said. "They were
scared. Some of the kids hid under the table."

But the kindergartners also have an advantage. Barb Eckenfels, kindergarten
teacher for the program, said that studies showed that the younger the children
were, the more quickly they learned a language. She that some of her Bosnian
pupils were trilingual. In their journey to America, the families stopped in
Germany, where the children picked up some German. At six years, the children
speak some German, some English and some Bosnian.

In the Lindbergh District, the kindergartners also spend time in a regular class
being immersed in English.

The English-as-a-second-language classes are small. Six students come to
Eckenfels' morning class, and six to the afternoon class. First using pictures
and charades, Eckenfels teaches the basic language of a school. The words:
pencil, crayon, coat, backpack, bathroom.

She reads the children stories. They draw their favorite parts and dictate in
English a synopsis of the action in their pictures. Their teacher or an aide
types it into a computer. Then the children read what they have written.

At the beginning of the year, Chris could write only a sentence or two.
Recently, after reading "Where the Wild Things Are," he drew a monster and wrote
these all-American words:

"My wild thing is a monster. He lives in my house. He eats chicken nuggets and
ice cream from McDonald's. He plays Mario. He has hair like a rhino. He likes to
eat my shoes."

LOAD-DATE: May 2, 2002

LANGUAGE: English

NOTES: Reporter Theresa Tighe:; E-mail: ttighe@post-dispatch.com; Phone:
314-340-8129

GRAPHIC: PHOTO; (1) Color photos by BY DAVID KENNEDY -; Pictures from a book
amuse (from left) assistant teacher Jennifer Richardet, Alisa Modronja, Sandra
Mijatovic and Mateo Vushaj at Crestwood Elementary School, where the children of
immigrant parents are in a special program to help them learn English.; Chris
Sengsouriya, 6, from Laos, laughs at winning an alphabet bingo game at Crestwood
Elementary. Kindergartners whose families are from other countries spend half a
day in regular activities and the other half in a class in English as a second
language.; (2) Photos by DAVID KENNEDY -; Kindergarten teacher Barb Eckenfels
works with Chris Sengsouriya, 6, from Laos.; Alisa Modronja, 6, from Bosnia, and
Sandra Mijatovic, 6, from Croatia, team up on a matching game.; Mateo Vushaj, 6,
from Albania, listens for his letters as he plays alphabet bingo.

                  Copyright 2002 St. Louis Post-Dispatch, Inc.


                              248 of 275 DOCUMENTS

                       St. Louis Post-Dispatch (Missouri)

                  May 9, 2002 Thursday Five Star Lift Edition

BORDER CONTROL BILL PASSES HOUSE, MOVES ON TO BUSH;
 IT CALLS FOR INCREASING STAFF, TAMPERPROOF VISAS

BYLINE: The Associated Press

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. A8

LENGTH: 341 words

DATELINE: WASHINGTON


The House gave final congressional approval Wednesday to legislation that would
increase the force guarding U.S. borders and require foreign visitors to carry
tamperproof passports and visas.

The 411-0 vote sent the bill to President George W. Bush for his signature.

The House already had passed the bill twice. "The third time is the charm," said
Rep. James Sensenbrenner, R-Wis., the House Judiciary Committee chairman.

Rep. Sheila Jackson Lee, D-Texas, said the legislation "addresses some gaping
holes in the system, that even without the horrific tragedy of Sept. 11, it was
our responsibility to address."

Stalled since December

The House had been holding up the bill because the Democratic-controlled Senate
wanted a provision to allow the Justice Department to ignore federal bidding
requirements on a computer system to be used by government agents for screening
visa applicants.

The chairman of the House Government Reform Committee, Rep. Dan Burton, R-Ind.,
objected to the exemption. Early Tuesday, the Senate authorized the House to
take the language out to clear the way for House action.

Bush is expected to sign the bill, which has been stalled in Congress since
December.

"This is important and long overdue legislation," Sensenbrenner said.

Increases wages

The border security bill would boost the pay of border patrol agents and allow
the Immigration and Naturalization Service to hire 200 new investigators and
another 200 inspectors.

It also would require the immigration agency to establish a foreign-st udent
tracking system that records the acceptance of aliens by educational
institutions, the issuance of student visas and the enrollment of aliens at
schools. Several hijackers involved in the attacks on Sept. 11 were in the
country on student visas.

The bill also would require that passports issued after 2003 be tamper-resistant
and that visitors carry documents that can be read by machine and identify the
bearer with biometrics, such as face recognition or retinal scanning technology.

LOAD-DATE: May 9, 2002

LANGUAGE: English

                  Copyright 2002 St. Louis Post-Dispatch, Inc.


                              249 of 275 DOCUMENTS

                       St. Louis Post-Dispatch (Missouri)

                  May 11, 2002 Saturday Five Star Lift Edition

ASHCROFT HAS PLAN TO TRACK FOREIGN STUDENTS IN U.S.

BYLINE: The Associated Press Matthew Franck Of The Post-Dispatch Contributed To
This Story.

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 7

LENGTH: 486 words

DATELINE: WASHINGTON


* The new system aims to ensure that students who are visiting the country are
who they claim to be, he says.

Attorney General John Ashcroft announced on Friday a system to track hundreds of
thousands of foreign students, saying it will allow the United States to "gain a
measure of assurance that the students who are visiting our country are who they
purport to be."

Ashcroft said the Internet-based system will provide rapid access to information
about a student.

"We do not currently have a system that efficiently verifies if a student is in
fact studying at an institution," Ashcroft said.

Schools will be required to notify the Immigration and Naturalization Service
within 24 hours if a foreign student drops out or doesn't show up, and to report
the student's status after each term. A student will have 30 days rather than
six months to show up on campus after entering the country.

Three of the 19 hijackers in the attacks of Sept. 11 were in the United States
on student visas. One entered on a student visa but failed to show up at the
campus where he was supposed to study.

Immigration officials say a version of the system will be available July 1, and
all schools should be participating by Jan. 30.

The system will link every U.S. consulate with every immigration agency port of
entry and all 74,000 educational institutions eligible to host foreign students,
said Terry Hartle, senior vice president of the American Council on Education.
The group includes colleges, universities, technical schools and high schools
and its members took part in discussions on the plan.

The immigration agency has acknowledged major gaps in tracking foreign students.
Last month, it put new restrictions on student visas, requiring any foreigner
wishing to study in the United States to have an approved student visa before
taking courses. Students previously could begin class es while waiting for visa
applications to be approved.

University administrators in the St. Louis area agree that compliance will be a
chore.

Kathy Steiner-Lang, Washington University's director of the Office of
International Students and Scholars, said the short time frame will require more
work in dealing with the school's 2,000 foreign students and scholars.

"But if it's required, it's something we will do," she said.

Bert Barry of Webster University said he believes the new requirements are
excessive, forcing universities to essentially police foreign students.

Barry, who heads international services for Webster's 400 foreign students, said
he's been told schools will have to keep tabs on the family members that
accompany foreign students in the United States.

He doubts many schools can afford to maintain that kind of oversight,
particularly under the deadlines required by the government.

"What you are seeing is something that could make student exchanges burdensome
and difficult," Barry said.

LOAD-DATE: May 11, 2002

LANGUAGE: English

NOTES: WAR ON TERROR

                  Copyright 2002 St. Louis Post-Dispatch, Inc.


                              250 of 275 DOCUMENTS

                       St. Louis Post-Dispatch (Missouri)

                 May 15, 2002 Wednesday Five Star Lift Edition

SPANISH-SPEAKING BOOM HAS COMMUNITIES STRUGGLING TO ADJUST

BYLINE: The Associated Press

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. A7

LENGTH: 446 words

DATELINE: WASHINGTON


With the rapid growth of the Hispanic population in the 1990s came an increase
in the number of U.S. residents speaking Spanish at home, new census figures for
Illinois and 12 other states show.

But the effects of that trend go far beyond what language is spoken around the
family dinner table.

In places such as Santa Ana in California - one of the states to receive the
detailed data Tuesday - many city workers are now required to know two
languages, and businesses are making changes to attract new clients.

Meanwhile, some communities in the Midwest and South that attracted large waves
of Hispanic immigrants only in the 1990s are struggling to break down language
barriers, said William Frey, a demographer at the Milken Institute, a think tank
based in Santa Monica, Calif.

In Granite City, Ill., Daniel Juarez runs the Immigration Project, which helps
immigrants in Southern Illinois gain citizenship. Many of his clients came to
work in the area's plant and tree nurseries; others are migrant farm workers.

More than 1.2 million Illinois residents speak Spanish at home, though nearly
half of them live in Chicago.

When it comes to services, Hispanics in the downstate area that the Immigration
Project serves are still being neglected, said Juarez, an immigrant from Peru.
"They struggle for services because (the population) is still growing," he said.

In Jackson, Miss., Hispanic newspaper publisher Luis Espinoza said, "I know soon
I will have to fill my pages with more news." He is the sole employee of a
12-page tabloid he started last year to bridge the communications gap with the
area's Latinos.

Nationally, the Hispanic population rose 58 percent during the decade to 35.3
million. Latinos now rival blacks as the nation's largest minority group.

The latest figures come from detailed census "long-form" data being released by
the Census Bureau over the next month. Missouri and 36 other states will get
their numbers by early next month.

Some highlights so far:

* In Indiana, the percentage of residents age 5 and older who speak Spanish at
home increased to 3 percent from 2 percent in 1990. Translated into hard
numbers, the number of Spanish-speaking residents more than doubled, to 185,000.

* In California, 12.4 million residents said they spoke a language other than
English at home. Of that total, 65 percent spoke Spanish.

* In Oregon, a smaller percentage of those speaking Spanish at home say they can
also speak English "very well" - 46 percent, down from 56 percent a decade
earlier.

The figures may also stir more debate on the best way for U.S. schools to
educate students with little or no knowledge of English.

LOAD-DATE: May 16, 2002

LANGUAGE: English

GRAPHIC: GRAPHIC; The Associated Press Graphic / Chart - (Spanish speakers);
Here are the percentages of people 5 and older who speak Spanish at home,
according to data from the U.S. Census Bureau. The figures are for only the 13
states that have received census "long-form" data.;
STATE       1990   2000;Alaska        2.0    2.9;California 20.0 25.8;
Hawaii       1.3    1.7;Illinois      6.9   10.9;Indiana      1.8
3.3;Mississippi  1.1     1.9;Montana      1.1    1.5;Nevada       7.7   16.2;N.
Dakota     0.7    1.4;Oregon       3.1    6.8;S. Dakota    0.8
1.4;Washington   3.2    5.8;Wisconsin    1.7    3.4

                  Copyright 2002 St. Louis Post-Dispatch, Inc.


                              251 of 275 DOCUMENTS

                       St. Louis Post-Dispatch (Missouri)

                   May 19, 2002 Sunday Five Star Lift Edition

COLLEGES SEE NO BIG DROP IN ENROLLMENT

BYLINE: Susan C. Thomson Of The Post-Dispatch

SECTION: NEWSWATCH; Pg. B1

LENGTH: 961 words


STUDENT VISAS

THE NEWS: U.S. officials are watching foreign students and student visas
closely. And this month the Immigration and Naturalization Service set a January
deadline for a new data system that will keep tabs on foreign students.

THE ISSUE: While college officials say there's been no large drop in enrollment,
some worry that greater scrutiny of visas could slow down the process and lead
to fewer foreign students.

With the U.S. government keeping ever closer watch on foreign students in this
country, colleges are watching for possible declines in their international
enrollments when school opens in fall.

So far, college officials in the St. Louis area say they've seen no big drops,
though the proof will come only when they count students at the start of the
fall semester.

Of most concern are the extra time and red tape now involved in getting student
visas. "We're having visa problems with some of our students from the Middle
East," said Larry Dietz, vice chancellor for student affairs at Southern
Illinois University at Carbondale. "There's not as quick a turnaround (in
processing visas) as in the past."

SIUC registered 1,800 graduate and undergraduate foreign students this past
school year, most of them from the Pacific Rim. After Sept. 11 the campus
suspended a relatively new drive to recruit students from countries like the
United Arab Emirates, Saudi Arabia and Kuwait, but that's back on now, Dietz
said. Even though international applications are up a bit from this time a year
ago, Dietz is of a mind to "wait and see" about fall enrollment.

So is Kathy Steiner-Lang, director of the international office at Washington
University, which had 1,200 foreign students this year. Like Dietz, she has seen
a slowdown in the granting of some student visas -- not just from Middle Eastern
countries but even from Germany, for instance.

Procedures vary from country to country and among the various U.S. consulates
that grant visas.

Steiner-Lang says the effect of visa delays on enrollment is the biggest unknown
at this point. If international students haven't planned far enough ahead, they
may be out of visas -- and luck -- for the fall semester.

In a nation unnerved by the attacks of Sept. 11, and news that one of the
hijackers had entered the country on a student visa, some international students
who have already passed the visa hurdle and started studying here are finding
themselves uncomfortably conspicuous and suspect.

FBI agents appeared unannounced at the home of a Middle Eastern man studying
aviation at St. Louis University and took him in for questioning. Embarrassed,
the man has become much more guarded in his interactions with his neighbors and
fellow students, said Jennifer Ewald, director of the university's international
center.

SLU junior Shariq Naseem of Pakistan and senior Katharina Panjaitan of Indonesia
had always flown about the world unimpeded. Not after Sept. 11.

On both ends of a year-end trip home, Naseem got more than the usual once-over
from airport security. At Newark he was sniffed by dogs and questioned before
being allowed on his international flight. How much money did he have? Who was
supporting him? At Zurich before his U.S.-bound flight back he was questioned
again, for half an hour.

Naseem shrugs off the scrutiny. "I was expecting it," he said.

Panjaitan was the only non-American on a spring-break church mission to Belize.
At every airport on the trip, she said, after showing her passport she was
selected for a "random check," taken aside and patted down.

As a result of that experience, Panjaitan says she's "not brave enough to go
home" to Indonesia right now for fear that she'll not be allowed back to finish
her studies.

Ewald understands the fear. About a half-dozen of SLU's 800 international
students have been denied immediate re-entry into the U.S., some for a few days
and some for an entire semester, she said.

Ewald said she's hoping to increase SLU's international enrollment by 10 percent
next year but, under the circumstances, will be happy if it holds steady. Next
year, foreign students will come under the additional burden of a new federal
data collecting system that will keep electronic tabs on them. Colleges had seen
such a system coming -- but probably not before the end of next year. Then
earlier this month the U.S. Immigration and Naturalization Service sprung a
surprise, telling them to get online by January.

Colleges say this will take some doing, both in time and computer software.

Once up and running, the new system will give the INS more information about
students than before -- and more quickly. For instance, Steiner-Lang said, the
agency will know immediately if a student has dropped below the full-time
enrollment required to get and keep a visa.

All possible hitches considered, Steiner-Lange is advising international
students once they arrive to be deliberate about following INS rules and to keep
their visas and passports current and with them when they travel.

Figures from the New York-based Institute of International Education show
international enrollment growing at a faster clip than overall U.S. college
enrollment. In 2000-01 there were 547,867 foreign students -- more than ever --
enrolled in U.S. colleges. They were a record 3.9 percent of the total.

Institute president Allen E. Goodman expects the upswing to continue. Sure, he
agreed, "Not everyone who applies for a (student) visa is going to get one." But
he said visa applications -- in his view, "a cake walk," compared with the
complexities of U.S. college applications -- aren't going to be deterrents.

The U.S. remains "the number one destination for education," he said. "I'm not
betting that's going to change."

LOAD-DATE: May 20, 2002

LANGUAGE: English

NOTES: FOREIGN STUDENTS; Reporter Susan C. Thomson covers higher education for
the Post-Dispatch.; Reporter Susan C. Thomson:; E-mail:
sthomson@post-dispatch.com; Phone: 314-209-1315

                  Copyright 2002 St. Louis Post-Dispatch, Inc.


                              252 of 275 DOCUMENTS

                       St. Louis Post-Dispatch (Missouri)

                  May 23, 2002 Thursday Five Star Lift Edition

LAW & ORDER

SECTION: METRO; Law & Order Column; Pg. C2

LENGTH: 520 words


ST. LOUIS

Man is critically injured when his pickup collides with ambulance

A man was critically injured Wednesday when his pickup collided with a St. Louis
Fire Department ambulance that was responding to a call with its lights and
siren on, authorities said.

The collision occurred about 5 p.m. at Olive Street and Vandeventer Avenue in
midtown. Firefighters had to cut open the blue Ford pickup to rescue the driver,
who was taken to St. Louis University Hospital.

The ambulance was northbound on Vandeventer and the pickup was westbound on
Olive. The impact knocked the pickup onto its side.

Fire Capt. Bob Hennicke said the ambulance was headed to an urgent trauma call
in the 8500 block of North Broadway, about 3 1/2 miles away. He said the
ambulance had stopped before it entered the intersection.

Authorities were trying to determine which vehicle had a green light.

Witnesses said the two medics got out of their ambulance and tried to help the
injured man. Authorities said Mike Beckenholdt, a paramedic, and William
Hoelzel, an emergency medical technician, were taken to St. Louis University
Hospital for treatment.

ST. LOUIS

Immigrant felon wins bid for permanent residency

Patrick Byrne, an Irishman convicted of three felony drunken driving charges,
has won his bid to remain a permanent resident of the United States, his
attorney said Wednesday.

An immigration judge had ordered Byrne deported on the grounds that his
conviction was a crime of violence. But in the wake of a recent precedent, the
Board of Immigration Appeals dropped the deportation proceedings, said Byrne's
attorney, Timothy Wichmer.

Byrne, a former St. Louis resident, now lives in Kansas City.

BRENTWOOD

UMB branch at Brentwood Promenade is robbed

Police and FBI agents were looking late Wednesday for a man who robbed the
United Missouri Bank branch at 9 Brentwood Promenade Court of an undisclosed
amount of money.

The robbery occurred about 3:55 p.m. Wednesday.

Anyone with information about the robbery is asked to call Brentwood Police at
314-961-4700, or the FBI at 314-231-4324.

CENTREVILLE

Suspect is charged in killing of homeowner

Authorities have charged Fernandez Usery, 29, of the 5300 block of Audubon
Avenue in Washington Park, in connection with the shooting death early Sunday of
Henry Carpenter, 48, in front of Carpenter's house in Centreville.

Police arrested Usery on Monday at a house that police said was two doors down
from Carpenter's, in the 500 block of South 39th Street. He has been charged so
far with aggravated discharge of a firearm and aggravated unlawful use of a
weapon by a felon.

Usery, who is held at the St. Clair County Jail in lieu of $500,000 bail, has
faced prior weapons charges in Washington Park and East St. Louis, said
Centreville police Detective Sgt. Steven Brown.

Police said they expected additional charges to emerge from a grand jury
hearing. Authorities said Usery and Carpenter might have been involved in a drug
deal when Carpenter was shot, although no narcotics were found at the scene.
Police said robbery was the likely motive.

LOAD-DATE: May 23, 2002

LANGUAGE: English

                  Copyright 2002 St. Louis Post-Dispatch, Inc.


                              253 of 275 DOCUMENTS

                       St. Louis Post-Dispatch (Missouri)

                   May 27, 2002 Monday Five Star Lift Edition

BOSNIAN IMMIGRANT BECOMES POLICE OFFICER;
 SANELA KONJEVIC HAD BEST ACADEMIC RECORD AT THE ST. LOUIS POLICE ACADEMY

BYLINE: Donald E. Franklin Of The Post-Dispatch

SECTION: METRO; Pg. D1

LENGTH: 368 words


When Sanela Konjevic and her mother left Bosnia six years ago to start new lives
here, they joined thousands of refugees from the war-torn country who now call
St. Louis home.

On Thursday, Konjevic, now 22, became the first Bosnian immigrant to be sworn in
as a St. Louis police officer. She was among the 27 graduates of the St. Louis
Police Academy.

"I wanted to be a police officer since I was 10 years old, but I never knew that
I was going to come here to become a police officer," Konjevic said after the
Police Department's badge ceremony at Harris-Stowe State College.

Konjevic's mother, Haseba Hukic, was speechless and near tears as she watched
her daughter march across the stage. Later in the colorful ceremony, the
auditorium erupted in applause when Konjevic was recognized for having the best
academic record of the Police Academy graduates.

Her average score over the 31-week training program was 98.1 percent, academy
officers said.

"I owe a lot to my parents," said Konjevic. In addition to her mother,
Konjevic's brother, Samir, 25, is with her in St. Louis. The family has lost
contact with her father, who was taken prisoner by the Serb army in 1992,
Konjevic said.

Anna Crosslin, president of International Institute of St. Louis, estimates that
more than 35,000 Bosnian immigrants live in the St. Louis area. The institute
sponsors refugee relocation programs.

Crosslin recalls how Konjevic assumed leadership roles as she and her family
were adjusting to St. Louis customs. She was quick to learn English and was the
first president of the International Police Explorer's Post founded by the
institute five years ago, Crosslin said.

Konjevic also worked at the Police Department's 911 center, where the ability to
speak Bosnian and English is helpful to Bosnians who can't speak English,
Crosslin said.

Konjevic is a junior in the Pierre Laclede Honors College at the University of
Missouri at St. Louis, where she is studying criminal justice and business.

She looks forward to a career with the Police Department and expects to be
assigned to areas where she can help her fellow immigrants. Today is Konjevic's
first day on the job at the South Patrol Division.

LOAD-DATE: May 27, 2002

LANGUAGE: English

NOTES: Reporter Donald E. Franklin: dfranklin@post-dispatch.com Phone:
314-340-8222

GRAPHIC: PHOTO; Color Photo by JAMIE RECTOR / POST-DISPATCH - St. Louis police
Officer Sanela Konjevic, 22, at St. Louis Police Department headquarters
downtown on Friday. She is the first Bosnian immigrant to become a city police
officer.

TYPE: PROFILE; SANELA KONJEVIC; BOSNIAN IMMIGRANT; ST. LOUIS POLICE ACADEMY
GRADUATE

                  Copyright 2002 St. Louis Post-Dispatch, Inc.


                              254 of 275 DOCUMENTS

                       St. Louis Post-Dispatch (Missouri)

                 June 5, 2002 Wednesday Five Star Lift Edition

AT A GLANCE

BYLINE: From News Services

SECTION: NEWS; At A Glance Column; Pg. A4

LENGTH: 812 words


WASHINGTON

Many Muslim visa holders could face new regulations

The Justice Department will propose new regulations this week that would require
tens of thousands of Muslim and Middle Eastern visa holders to register with the
government and be fingerprinted, administration officials said Tuesday.

The initiative is designed for "individuals from countries who pose the highest
risk to our security," including most visa holders from Saudi Arabia, Pakistan
and many other Muslim nations, officials said.

More than 100,000 foreigners, including students, workers, researchers and
tourists, all foreigners from designated countries who do not hold green cards,
would likely be covered by the plan, an official said.

Anti-terrorism teams made up of federal, state and local officers that have been
formed in most larger cities since the attacks on Sept. 11 would help
immigration officials register visa holders already living here, using
procedures similar to those employed to find 5,000 mainly Middle Eastern men who
were sought for interviews after the attacks.

Violators could be fined, refused re-entry into the United States or,
potentially, deported, officials said.

SAN FRANCISCO

Colonel is suspended over letter calling Bush "a joke"

An Air Force colonel has been suspended for writing a letter in which he called
President George W. Bush "a joke" and accused him of allowing the Sept. 11
attacks to happen because "his presidency was going nowhere."

The letter from Lt. Col. Steve Butler was published May 26 in The (Monterey
County) Herald. "He did nothing to warn the American people because he needed
this war on terrorism," Butler wrote. "His daddy had Saddam and he needed Osama.
His presidency was going nowhere. ... This guy is a joke."

Butler had been vice chancellor for student affairs at the Defense Language
Institute in Monterey. He was suspended May 29 pending an investigation, an Air
Force spokeswoman said. Military law prohibits "contemptuous words" against the
president and other top political leaders.

WASHINGTON

White House threatens veto of anti-terrorism bill

The Bush administration threatened Tuesday to veto the Senate's $31.4 billion
anti-terrorism bill, setting up an election-year duel over a package that the
White House says has grown too costly.

The bill's defenders, most of them Democrats, pressed ahead anyway and fired
back at Republicans who promised to offer amendments cutting the bill's price
tag. "It's easy to sit around and carp and complain and criticize," said Senate
Appropriations Committee Chairman Robert Byrd, D-W.Va., the bill's chief
architect.

Bush asked Congress in March for $27.1 billion in anti-terrorism spending for
the rest of the federal fiscal year, which ends Sept. 30. The White House budget
office said senior advisers would urge President George W. Bush to veto the
measure as written by the Democrat-dominated Senate. "The Senate bill includes
scores of unneeded items that total billions of dollars - all classified as an
'emergency,'" the statement said.

NEW YORK

Researchers will track kids who lost parents in attack

A group of children who lost parents in the attack Sept. 11 on the World Trade
Center will be tracked for two years by psychiatrists studying grief and its
effect on child development.

Seven children - whose parents were firefighters, police officers and office
workers killed in the twin towers - so far are participating in the study, which
began last month at Weill Medical College of Cornell University's Childhood
Bereavement Program.

Researchers hope to attract about 50 families, according to Dr. Cynthia Pfeffer,
a professor of psychiatry who has extensively studied childhood bereavement.

"We're going to be evaluating them at six-month intervals on their emotional,
physical and social development," Pfeffer said.

BOSNIA-HERZEGOVINA

Authorities raid offices of Islamic charity

Authorities in Sarajevo raided three offices of an Islamic charity, seizing
computers and documents as part of a crackdown on organizations suspected of
links to terrorist groups, officials said Tuesday.

Police raided two offices of the Al-Haramain Islamic Foundation in Sarajevo on
Monday, and a third office in Travnik, some 40 miles northwest of Sarajevo, the
Interior Ministry said. After similar raids in March, the U.S. Treasury
Department froze the charity's assets. Treasury Secretary Paul O'Neill said at
the time that some money from the foundation's offices in Bosnia and Somalia had
been diverted to support terrorist activities.

Raids on other Bosnian charitable groups have led to arrests in the United
States. Letters, weapons, a military manual and photos of Osama bin Laden found
in the March 19 raid at the offices of Benevolence International Foundation led
to charges against the charity's chief executive in Illinois.

LOAD-DATE: June 5, 2002

LANGUAGE: English

NOTES: WAR ON TERROR

GRAPHIC: PHOTO; Photo from THE ASSOCIATED PRESS - Soldiers from Turkey walk
across the tarmac of Kabul Airport shortly after arriving Tuesday in the Afghan
capital. Turkey will take over command of the international peacekeeping force
in Afghanistan this month. The British have been leading the 18-nation,
4,500-member force responsible for security in Kabul.

                  Copyright 2002 St. Louis Post-Dispatch, Inc.


                              255 of 275 DOCUMENTS

                       St. Louis Post-Dispatch (Missouri)

                  June 10, 2002 Monday Five Star Lift Edition

IMMIGRANTS FEAR STEPS TO THWART TERRORISTS WILL HURT CIVIL RIGHTS ;
 AT FESTIVAL OF NATIONS, MANY PAN ASHCROFT PLAN

BYLINE: Imran Vittachi Of The Post-Dispatch

SECTION: METRO; Pg. B1

LENGTH: 505 words


Afghan refugee Ahmad Barekzai came to St. Louis in search of American freedoms.

That was in 1999, after he had spent eight years as a refugee in India and
Pakistan from Afghanistan's mujahedeen and Taliban rulers. So far, Barekzai
says, he's gotten a warm welcome in the United States, like the one he got
Saturday as he marched with the Afghan contingent in the city's third annual
Parade of Nations.

Clad in a sky blue and white Hawaiian shirt, the 28-year-old International
Institute case officer staffed the Afghanistan booth at the institute-organized
Festival of Nations in Tower Grove Park. Embroidered vests and slippers were
among the Afghan crafts Barekzai hawked.

But Barekzai, who is working with some of the 200 Afghan refugee families in the
area, worries about the anti-terrorism measures proposed by Attorney General
John Ashcroft. For him, fingerprinting and monitoring of noncitizens of Middle
Eastern or South and West Asian origins could mar his dream of becoming an
American.

"Yes, it is a big concern, civil rights," said Barekzai, who is still seeking a
green card. "Now, the FBI -- they have the permission to record whatever I say
on the phone. . . . If I surf the Internet, they can track me down and (monitor)
what I'm doing on the Internet. If I go to the bank, then they probably can
check what kind of transactions I make."

Barekzai was among immigrants from the Middle East or West Asia who voiced
concerns that Ashcroft's proposals would target Arabs and Muslims in the
aftermath of Sept. 11.

At the Egyptian gift stand, Frederick Sadooji, 48, and Refat Malek, 64, were
selling curios around an ancient Egypt theme, including a gold and black Sphinx
statue sculpted from redwood.

Malek, an accountant and Coptic Christian who arrived in St. Louis 33 years ago,
is proud of the country that took him in. He reported that fello w Americans
have treated his family well since September.

"I think it's a very good idea," he said, when asked about Ashcroft's plan. But
he added the new measures should be applied broadly. "But not just people from
the Middle East. Everybody."

Sadooji, a registered nurse and former U.S. serviceman in Operation Desert Storm
in 1991, was adamant that the U.S. government should do everything to prevent
future terrorist acts. He said he wouldn't mind if Egyptians and other Arabs are
singled out at U.S. ports for fingerprinting, provided such measures could be
justified for stopping terrorism.

The weekend festival, which featured food and musical and dance performances
from at least a dozen countries, had proceeded without any problems, organizers
and St. Louis police said Sunday afternoon.

On Saturday, the festival drew some 8,000 visitors, said Anna Crosslin, who
heads the International Institute. She reported no problems over the weekend or
during a similar festival last October.

"(People) who come to our festival tend to distinguish between the terrorist
acts and St. Louisans who happen to be of Middle Eastern heritage," she said.

LOAD-DATE: June 10, 2002

LANGUAGE: English

NOTES: Reporter Imran Vittachi: E-mail: ivittachi@post-dispatch.com Phone:
314-340-8110

TYPE: PROFILE; AHMAD BAREKZAI

                  Copyright 2002 St. Louis Post-Dispatch, Inc.


                              256 of 275 DOCUMENTS

                       St. Louis Post-Dispatch (Missouri)

                  June 14, 2002 Friday Five Star Lift Edition

TODAY'S OBSERVANCES

BYLINE: Mary Delach Leonard

SECTION: EVERYDAY MAGAZINE; Pg. D1

LENGTH: 285 words


NOON, Old Courthouse, 11 North Fourth Street, downtown St. Louis: The U.S.
Immigration and Naturalization Service and the National Park Service will
commemorate the day with a naturalization ceremony for new citizens in the
rotunda of the Old Courthouse at 1 p.m. The Air Guard Band of the Central States
will perform patriotic music beginning at noon. A 20-by-36-foot, 33-star
garrison flag has been suspended from the fifth-level balcony in the rotunda and
will be displayed through July 18.

6:30 p.m. Illinois 159, Maryville: The George Rogers Clark Chapter of the Sons
of the American Revolution will hold its annual Madison County ceremony in front
of Maryville's City Hall. There will be patriotic music and a display of flags
from all 50 states.

History

Flag Day observances date to 1885, when Bernard Cigrand, a Wisconsin
schoolteacher, held a Flag Birth Day for his pupils and began lobbying for a
National Flag Day. President Woodrow Wilson established Flag Day as a national
observance in 1916, but the nation didn't officially celebrate the holiday until
1949, when Congress passed the National Flag Day Bill. June 14 was chosen
because it was on that date in 1777 that the Continental Congress adopted the
Stars and Stripes as the nation's offic ial flag.

Retiring flags

Old Glory should never look old. If the flag on your porch is weathered and
frayed, it's time to replace it. The Flag Code requires that flags be destroyed
in a dignified way, preferably by burning. The Madison County Sons of the
American Revolution will accept old flags for proper disposal; just bring them
to today's observance in Maryville. Many local American Legion and VFW posts
also provide the service.

LOAD-DATE: June 18, 2002

LANGUAGE: English

TYPE: PROFILE ; FLAG DAY; SIDEBAR STORY

                  Copyright 2002 St. Louis Post-Dispatch, Inc.


                              257 of 275 DOCUMENTS

                       St. Louis Post-Dispatch (Missouri)

                 June 27, 2002 Thursday Five Star Lift Edition

NATURALIZATION CEREMONY AT OLD COURTHOUSE WILL GIVE FAIR ITS TRADITIONAL START

SECTION: GET OUT ; Pg. X3

LENGTH: 277 words


One of the difficulties about having a Fourth of July celebration in downtown
St. Louis is contending with Fair St. Louis.

The Old Courthouse, owned and operated by the National Park Service -- which
also owns and operates the Gateway Arch grounds -- doesn't sweat it. It goes on
with its "Historic Fourth of July Celebration."

As it has every year before the area celebrates America, it prepares dozens of
American newbies for a Fourth of July.

At 1 p.m. Wednesday, in a ceremony on the Old Courthouse steps, about 75 new
U.S. citizens will be sworn in. The ceremony will be conducted by the
Immigration and Naturalization Service.

Activities during Fair St. Louis include the American Experience at the
Jefferson National Expansion Memorial.

Each day, the National Park Service at the Old Courthouse and the Gateway Arch
will present a variety of free programs and exhibits. The courthouse rotunda
will be decorated with 19th-century patriotic displays, and volunteers clad in
historic garb will serve as hosts to visitors. A 36-by-30-foot flag will hang in
the rotunda. History tours will run all day each day.

The National Park Service will conduct its presentations at the two tents on the
lawns north of the Arch.

Programs and exhibits will be open from 11 a.m. to 7 p.m. each day of the fair.
The exhibit tent and Kids' Corner will feature information on the country's
national parks, as well as interactive games.

Everything is free. Following are the schedules.

================

"Historic Fourth of July Celebration"

Where: Old Courthouse, Fourth and Market streets

When: 8 a.m. to 5 p.m. Wednesday through Sunday

How much: Free

LOAD-DATE: June 27, 2002

LANGUAGE: English

NOTES: A GUIDE TO FAIR ST. LOUIS

TYPE: PROFILE; A GUIDE TO FAIR ST. LOUIS

                  Copyright 2002 St. Louis Post-Dispatch, Inc.


                              258 of 275 DOCUMENTS

                       St. Louis Post-Dispatch (Missouri)

                 June 27, 2002 Thursday Five Star Lift Edition

HOMELAND SECURITY PLAN ISN'T SET IN STONE, RIDGE SAYS;
 SOME IN CONGRESS DON'T WANT NEW DEPARTMENT TO ABSORB SO MANY AGENCIES

BYLINE: The Associated Press

SECTION: NEWS ; Pg. A6

LENGTH: 489 words

DATELINE: WASHINGTON


Homeland security chief Tom Ridge assured Congress Wednesday that President
George W. Bush would accept changes to his proposal for a Homeland Security
Department.

At several hearings on Capitol Hill, lawmakers raised questions ranging from who
should issue visas to which agency should combat boll weevils.

So far, the doubts appear to pose little threat to the legislation. Still, Ridge
emphasized that Bush's plan wasn't set in stone. He told the House Judiciary
Committee, "By definition, it's a work in progress."

Ridge continued to resist suggestions that the FBI, the CIA and other
intelligence agencies be brought under the new department's authority. FBI
director Robert Mueller and CIA chief George Tenet are likely to reinforce that
message in testimony today.

Wednesday morning, Ridge told a Senate hearing he favored keeping the
Immigration and Naturalization Service intact in the new agency.

But later, Ridge told the House Judiciary Committee that Bush still supported
splitting the immigration agency into separate border control and citizenship
offices, as the House voted to do earlier this year.

Earlier, Sen. Patrick Leahy, D-Vt., said the new department must be subject to
whistle-blower protection laws and the Freedom of Information Ac t, which
critics say the plan omits.

"What this does is put the new department above the law," said Leahy, chairman
of the Senate Judiciary Committee.

Ridge said the agency would be subject to the whistle-blower law. But he
defended a proposal to exempt from public inspection certain information about
vulnerability to terrorism. Disclosing such information, Ridge said, could "draw
a roadmap of critical infrastructure vulnerabilities."

Which agency should have control over issuing visas in foreign c ountries was
also debated. Rep. Dave Weldon, R-Fla., said that duty should go to the new
Homeland Security Department instead of staying in the State Department, which
he said was unable to screen out terrorists.

The lead State Department witness at a subcommittee hearing of the House
Government Reform Committee was the undersecretary for management, Grant Green.
She said decisions on who should get visas are only as good as the background
information that visa officers get. She said that before the 19 hijackers
involved in the attacks of Sept. 11 got their visas, no law enforcement agency
had singled them out as terrorists.

At a House Agriculture Committee hearing, farm groups and many lawmakers
objected to shifting the Agriculture Department's plant and animal health
division to the new department. In addition to border inspections, the division
deals with eradication of pests and diseases affecting the food and fiber
supply, such as cotton boll weevils and citrus canker.

Lawmakers from farm states fear these programs could become lower priorities.
Rep. Charles Stenholm, D-Texas, said, "Even in wartime, cows must be milked."

LOAD-DATE: June 27, 2002

LANGUAGE: English

                  Copyright 2002 St. Louis Post-Dispatch, Inc.


                              259 of 275 DOCUMENTS

                       St. Louis Post-Dispatch (Missouri)

                 June 29, 2002 Saturday Five Star Lift Edition

SUPREME COURT WILL HEAR CASE CENTERED ON RIGHTS OF IMMIGRANTS

BYLINE: The Associated Press

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 433 words

DATELINE: WASHINGTON


* Jailing of lawbreakers without bail before deportation hearings is at issue.

The Supreme Court jumped into the debate over the rights and treatment of
immigrants who break the law when it agreed Friday to hear a case with added
resonance since the government began detaining foreigners in terrorism
investigations.

The action came in the court's final day of business before breaking for the
summer. The court said it will decide if the government can jail foreign
criminals without bail pending a deportation hearing. Prosecutors have lost
several constitutional challenges to such detentions in federal court.

The issue predates Sept. 11 and the subsequent roundup and detention of possible
terrorism suspects but raises some of the same civil liberties questions posed
on behalf of immigrants recently held on secret charges.

Separately Friday, the court temporarily blocked a judge from opening secret
detention or deportation hearings for those picked up since Sept. 11. The court
acted at the request of the Bush administration, which argued that national
security would be damaged by allowing reporters to attend.

Civil rights and media organizations are seeking names and other information on
an unknown number of foreign nationals held by the Immigration and
Naturalization Service since Sept. 11.

"If these proceedings are opened to the public during the critical phase of the
urgent threat to national security, terrorist organizations will have direct
access to information about the government's ongoing investigation," says a
court filing from Theodore Olson, the top Supreme Court lawyer for President
George W. Bush.

In that case and in the appeal the high court accepted Friday, the Bush
administration seeks an across-the-board policy that would allow at least
temporary detention of foreign nationals without an assessment of whether each
person being held is dangerous or likely to flee.

"Courts have not looked well on those kind of blanket assertions of power,
except when an extraordinary need is shown," said Elliot Mincberg of the
lobbying group People for the American Way.

Dan Stein of the Federation for American Immigration Reform said government has
extensive power in immigration cases and should be able to exercise it. The
group supports stricter immigration laws.

The secret hearings issue apparently marks the Supreme Court's first
intervention in a case directly related to the attacks of Sept. 11. Friday's
action was not a ruling, but it may indicate the court expects to confront the
same case again when lower court appeals are over.

LOAD-DATE: June 29, 2002

LANGUAGE: English

NOTES: TOP OF THE NEWS

                  Copyright 2002 St. Louis Post-Dispatch, Inc.


                              260 of 275 DOCUMENTS

                       St. Louis Post-Dispatch (Missouri)

                 July 3, 2002 Wednesday Five Star Lift Edition

COLLEGES START USING ONLINE SYSTEM FOR TRACKING FOREIGNERS;
 SCHOOLS WILL PROVIDE GOVERNMENT WITH DATA ON INTERNATIONAL STUDENTS

BYLINE: Karen Branch-Brioso Post-Dispatch Washington Bureau

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. A5

LENGTH: 558 words

DATELINE: WASHINGTON


One day into the federal government's high-tech push to track foreign students,
Peggy Hudson of Lewis and Clark Community College in Godfrey, Ill., breathed a
sigh of frustration.

"I've been working on that all day," said Hudson, enrollment director for a
college with just five to 10 international students in any given school year.
"I'm having trouble filling out the (online) enrollment form."

But she's upbeat about the Immigration and Naturalization Service's new system,
which is aimed at preventing terrorism by helping to close long-existing gaps in
the tracking of foreign visitors to the United States.

"My opinion is: When all the kinks are worked out, it's going to be better,
because it will offer us a better way of keeping track of them. ...

I'm kind of excited about it," she said.

The Student and Exchange Visitor Information System is an Internet-driven method
that all U.S. schools with international students must use come Jan. 30. Schools
will use the system to alert immigration officials of foreign students' campus
addresses, course schedules and any disciplinary action taken against them - or
if they fail to show up at school.

One of the Sept. 11 hijackers had entered the country on a student visa, but he
never appeared at the California school where he enrolled. The new system will
require schools to alert the immigration service electronically when that
happens - and law enforcement will be alerted of no-shows.

This week, some schools got an early chance to join the system and kiss their
paper-based tracking systems goodbye. Just 38 applied to do so Monday - the Web
site's first day - according to Terrance O'Reilly of the immigration service.

But schools with large foreign-student populations, such as Washington
University, didn't even try. Right now, the only way schools can communicate
with the new system is by entering student records one by one on the Web site.
That's fine for Lewis and Clark, but Washington University prefers to wait until
the system can accept hundreds of records simultaneously.

"We're dealing with about 2,200 people - 1,200 students and 1,000 scholars - and
so the only way we can do this is through the batch process," said Kathy
Steiner-Lang, director of Washington University's Office for International
Students and Scholars.

Bill Strassberger, a spokesman for the immigration service, said he expects that
kink to be worked out by sometime in the fall - too late for the preliminary
enrollment now under way.

Toni Liston, director of the international student services office at Southern
Illinois University at Edwardsville, said for larger schools, compatible
software will be costly.

"The ones I have seen ranged anywhere from $4,000 to $30,000 - so we're doing a
lot of shopping and that's going to continue through the summer and fall,"
Liston said.

Hudson said Lewis and Clark has too few students to need a software upgrade. And
despite Tuesday's daylong ordeal with the online registration form, she believes
it will help schools like hers in ways that have nothing to do with terrorism.
The paper-intensive process of transferring an international student to a
four-year college is one example.

"It just seems like it will be so much easier than filling out forms, and it
looks like a cleaner way to transfer students," Hudson said.

LOAD-DATE: July 3, 2002

LANGUAGE: English

NOTES: Reporter Karen Branch-Brioso; E-mail: kbranch@post-dispatch.com; Phone:
202-298-6880

                  Copyright 2002 St. Louis Post-Dispatch, Inc.


                              261 of 275 DOCUMENTS

                       St. Louis Post-Dispatch (Missouri)

                  July 4, 2002 Thursday Five Star Lift Edition

SADDAM'S STEPSON IS ARRESTED IN MIAMI ON IMMIGRATION CHARGES

BYLINE: The Associated Press

SECTION: NEWS ; Pg. A5

LENGTH: 150 words


Saddam Hussein's stepson was arrested Wednesday on immigration charges in Miami,
where he had enrolled to take classes at a flight school, federal authorities
said.

According to the Immigration and Naturalization Service, the Iraqi leader's
stepson was traveling as a tourist and had not applied for a student visa that
would have allowed him to take courses.

Mohammad Saffi, a citizen of New Zealand who has worked as a commercial airline
pilot, planned to take a course at Aeroservice Aviation Center, said James
Goldman, an INS assistant director for investigations.

Goldman said Saffi was seeking recertification training at the flight school.
FBI spokeswoman Judy Orihuela said he is employed by an airline in New Zealand.

Saffi, 36, also failed to tell customs agents of his intent to take courses when
he arrived Tuesday in Los Angeles on a flight from New Zealand, Goldman said.

LOAD-DATE: July 5, 2002

LANGUAGE: English

                  Copyright 2002 St. Louis Post-Dispatch, Inc.


                              262 of 275 DOCUMENTS

                       St. Louis Post-Dispatch (Missouri)

                  July 4, 2002 Thursday Five Star Lift Edition

NEW CITIZENS TAKE OATH DOWNTOWN

BYLINE: From Staff Reports

SECTION: METRO ; Pg. B1

LENGTH: 478 words


* Sixty-five immigrants endured the July heat in the Old Courthouse to raise
their hands, recite the Oath of Allegiance and become Americans.

The 65 people assembled Wednesday afternoon in the rotunda of the Old Courthouse
along with friends and onlookers had two things in common.

All were suffering from the July heat building up in the 19th-century rotunda,
which isn't air-conditioned.

And each one was eagerly enduring the sweat because they were at the end of
their journey. Journeys that began when they had emigrated from Vietnam, El
Salvador, Bangladesh or other far-off places. Journeys that would end in a few
moments with a federal judge telling them to raise their hands and recite the
Oath of Allegiance.

"I feel very proud," Claro Pumares Hernandez, 71, said after the ceremony. He
grew up in Manila in the Philippines. A mechanic, he had earned about $20 a
month, not nearly enough when he became ill and needed medication. He came to
St. Louis in 1987.

He had wanted to raise his hand and become a citizen three years ago but got too
sick to attend the ceremony. The next year, a daughter got cancer and he went to
Washington to stay by her bedside. Last October, the Immigration and
Naturalization Service sent a letter asking if he was still interested.

"He was so happy," said a daughter, Gladys Shelton of Overland.

"He said, 'I have waited so long.' "

Also at the ceremony was Dr. Justin Osarenmwindamwen Ogbevoen. Perusing a list
of those about to take the oath, he said, "I have the longest name here." He's
44, lives in Olivette, and brought his 3-year-old son, Iyayi.

He came from Nigeria to St. Louis 13 years ago for postgraduate work -- he's a
pediatrician -- and was pleased to be celebrating Independence Day here at a
time when many are wondering where terrorists will attack next.

"It means a lot to me -- America is very secure," he said.

Gregory Bunimovich, 50, of St. Louis County, was there with his wife, daughter
and son. He grew up in Siberia to become a chemical engineer, but said being
Jewish kept him from promotions. "I couldn't be a high manage r," he said. He
came here nine years ago "to realize my potential."

Ronnen Isakov, 31, was born in Israel and grew up in South Africa. "The right to
vote is something I wish I could have had years ago," he said.

Now he lives in University City with his wife, Lara Isakov, a physician, and
Avital, their 3-month-old daughter.

"She's very excited, too," Lara Isakov said, nodding toward Avital, who was
sound asleep.

The Oath of Allegiance has two parts: First, you renounce allegiance to any
foreign power. Then you swear to defend the United States.

Finally, after 39 minutes in the heat and reciting the Pledge of Allegiance, the
new citizens heard U.S. District Judge E. Richard Webber say the word they had
come to hear:

"Congratulations!"

LOAD-DATE: July 5, 2002

LANGUAGE: English

GRAPHIC: PHOTO; Color PHOTO by LAURIE SKRIVAN / POST-DISPATCH - Surrounded by
his family and friends, Dr. Justin Ogbevoen holds his certificate of U.S.
citizenship after a naturalization ceremony in the Old Courthouse on Wednesday.

                  Copyright 2002 St. Louis Post-Dispatch, Inc.


                              263 of 275 DOCUMENTS

                       St. Louis Post-Dispatch (Missouri)

                   July 5, 2002 Friday Five Star Lift Edition

DEPORTATION TO NEW ZEALAND IS LIKELY FOR SADDAM'S STEPSON AFTER ARREST;
 INS SAYS HE LACKED STUDENT VISA TO TAKE COURSES AT FLORIDA FLIGHT SCHOOL

BYLINE: The Associated Press

SECTION: NEWS ; Pg. A4

LENGTH: 390 words

DATELINE: MIAMI


Saddam Hussein's stepson will likely be deported back to New Zealand after his
arrest on immigration charges, federal authorities said.

Mohammed Nour al-Din Saffi, a citizen of New Zealand who has worked in
commercial aviation, planned to attend classes at Aeroservice Aviation Center,
said James Goldman, an assistant director for investigations at the Immigration
and Naturalization Service.

FBI spokeswoman Judy Orihuela said one of the Sept. 11 hijackers trained at the
same flight school. The South Florida Sun-Sentinel identified the hijacker as
Ziad Jarrah, who is believed to have commandeered the plane that crashed in
Pennsylvania.

According to the INS, the Iraqi leader's stepson was traveling as a tourist and
had not applied for a student visa that would have allowed him to take courses.

There was no evidence that Saffi was connected to any terrorist group.

Goldman said Saffi was seeking recertification training at the flight school.
The FBI said he is employed by an airline in New Zealand.

Saffi, 36, failed to tell customs agents of his intent to take courses when he
arrived Tuesday in Los Angeles on a flight from New Zealand, Goldman said.

Orihuela, the FBI spokeswoman, said Saffi was tracked Wednesday as he flew from
Los Angeles to Miami International Airport. He was taken into custody at a motel
shortly after he arrived.

Saffi was at Krome Detention Center in Miami-Dade County and was being processed
for deportation to New Zealand, Goldman said.

The Weekend Herald, a newspaper in New Zealand, reported in December that Saffi
worked for Air New Zealand as an engineer and had lived in the country six
years.

The paper said officials in New Zealand had investigated Saffi after Sept. 11
when they learned he was Saddam's stepson. No action was taken, the paper said.

Mohammed Saffi is the eldest son of Samira al-Shahbandar, Saddam's second wife.
His father is Nour al-Din Saffi, an aviation engineer and former head of Iraqi
Airways.

According to sources in Baghdad and in Iraqi exile circles, Saddam forced Nour
al-Din Saffi to divorce al-Shahbandar in the late 1970s before Saddam married
her. He has since married again.

Mohammed Saffi is believed to have left Iraq after the 1991 Gulf War - first to
neighboring Jordan and then to New Zealand - after an argument with his mother.

LOAD-DATE: July 5, 2002

LANGUAGE: English

GRAPHIC: PHOTO; Photo by THE ASSOCIATED PRESS - Mohammed Nour al-Din Saffi, the
stepson of Iraqi leader Saddam Hussein, is pictured in December in New Zealand.
Saffi has worked for Air New Zealand as an engineer, a newspaper reported.

                  Copyright 2002 St. Louis Post-Dispatch, Inc.


                              264 of 275 DOCUMENTS

                       St. Louis Post-Dispatch (Missouri)

                    July 6, 2002 Saturday Three Star Edition

MEXICO SAYS FEWER MIGRANTS ARE DYING WHILE TRYING TO CROSS THE U.S. BORDER

BYLINE: The Associated Press

SECTION: NEWS ; Pg. 25

LENGTH: 383 words

DATELINE: MONTERREY, MEXICO


The number of migrants dying while trying to illegally cross into the United
States is declining, apparently because of a better understanding of the dangers
of the desert, the Mexican government says.

But human rights say the number of crossings might have declined in recent
months because of heightened security following the attacks of Sept. 11 and the
U.S. economic downturn.

The foreign department said in a news release Thursday that 167 migrants of all
nationalities died trying to cross the U.S. border in the first half of the
year, and 117 were Mexicans.

It said 210 Mexicans died during the same period in 2001 and 283 during the
first half months of 2000. It did not give figures for other nationalities.

The number represents deaths on both sides of the border.

Arrests by the U.S. Border Patrol this year have dropped to their lowest level
in nearly a decade, another indication that there may be fewer deaths because
fewer people are crossing.

"Because a lot more INS agents are out there, they could be rescuing more
people," suggested Steven Camarota, Center for Immigration Studies in
Washington.

Previously death tolls had been increasing, largely because a growing number of
people were trying to avoid detection by taking a more chall enging route
through remote deserts and mountains.

The greatest death toll so far this year has been in the Arizona desert region
of the Tohono O'odham Indian Reservation, where 55 people had died from
dehydration, the foreign department said.

The agency said the reduced death toll was because of official efforts "to alert
migrants to the danger of crossing high-risk sites such as unpopulated areas,
deserts, mountains or rivers and canals."

Mexican authorities started putting up solar-powered rescue towers in June to
provide water and maps to migrants lost in the desert.

For the past few years, church and other independent groups on both sides of the
border have placed water stations in the desert in the summer and left blankets
along crossing areas in the mountains in the winter.

While Mexican officials say they are trying to stem dangerous border crossings,
they also complain that the U.S. border policy increases the risks of death by
criminalizing people who hold millions of jobs in the United States.

LOAD-DATE: July 6, 2002

LANGUAGE: English

                  Copyright 2002 St. Louis Post-Dispatch, Inc.


                              265 of 275 DOCUMENTS

                       St. Louis Post-Dispatch (Missouri)

                   July 7, 2002 Sunday Five Star Lift Edition

LA GUNMAN WAS NEARLY DEPORTED IN '96;
 BUT YEAR LATER HE GAINED RESIDENCY THROUGH WIFE

BYLINE: The Associated Press The Los Angeles Times Contributed To This Report.

SECTION: NEWS ; Pg. A2

LENGTH: 459 words

DATELINE: LOS ANGELES


The government had started deportation proceedings in 1996 against the Egyptian
immigrant who gunned down two people at Los Angeles International Airport. But
the following year, the man gained U.S. residency because his wife received a
valid visa, officials said Saturday.

It was unclear what caused the Immigration and Naturalization Service to reject
Hesham Mohamed Hadayet's first petition for residency and begin the deportation
process, said INS spokesman Francisco Arcaute.

A year later, in 1997, Hadayet was granted permanent resident status because his
wife, Hala, had become a permanent resident, Arcaute said. The INS allows
foreign nationals to work and live in the United States if they have a relative
who is a U.S. citizen or permanent resident.

Hadayet's uncle, Hassan Mostaffa Mahfouz, said in an interview in Egypt that
Hadayet was happy in the United States and had about a year remaining before he
qualified for U.S. citizenship.

Hadayet was the fourth person in line Thursday at the ticket counter for El Al,
Israel's national airline, when he began firing, killing two people and wounding
three others, authorities said. He fired off 10 or 11 bullets before he was shot
dead by an El Al security guard.

In response to the shooting, the new U.S. Transportation Security Administration
announced Saturday that it would station armed law enforcement officers at
airport ticket counters and other public areas of airports.

A suspicious piece of luggage forced an evacuation of a section of the Tom
Bradley Terminal at 4:30 p.m. local time Saturday.

The bag was found on the departure level near the Thai Airways ticket counter,
said airport spokesman Tom Winfrey. Scores of people were led out of the
building, but international flights continued to come and go, he said.

The evacuation was called off about an hour later, when a bomb squad determined
that the luggage contained no explosives. The bag contained a broken bottle of
liquor, Winfrey said.

FBI agent Richard Garcia said Saturday that it still wasn't known why Hadayet
targeted the El Al ticket area.

Hadayet walked into the airport armed with a .45-caliber semiautomatic Glock
pistol, a 9 mm handgun and a 6-inch hunting knife.

His wife and sons, Adam, 8, and Omar, 14, were visiting family in Egypt at the
time.

The FBI has searched the family's apartment and seized a computer, books,
binders and other material but released no details Saturday.

Results from an autopsy conducted Saturday found that Hadayet died of a gunshot
wound to the abdomen, said Dr. James Ribe of the Los Angeles County Coroner's
Office.

Abdul Zahav, a man who said he worked for Hadayet until he was fired two years
ago, said Hadayet once told him he hated all Israelis.

LOAD-DATE: July 9, 2002

LANGUAGE: English

GRAPHIC: PHOTO; (1) Photo by THE ASSOCIATED PRESS - Policeman Don Bender and his
dog Tosca patrol near the El Al ticket counter on Saturday at Los Angeles
International Airport. A gunman killed two people and injured three others there
Thursday.; (2) Photo headshot - (Hesham Mohamed) Hadayet - FBI is searching for
motive

                  Copyright 2002 St. Louis Post-Dispatch, Inc.


                              266 of 275 DOCUMENTS

                       St. Louis Post-Dispatch (Missouri)

                  July 7, 2002 Sunday Early Five Star Edition

LA GUNMAN WAS NEARLY DEPORTED IN '96

BYLINE: The Associated Press Jerri Stroud Of The Post-Dispatch Contributed To
This Report.

SECTION: NEWS ; Pg. A2

LENGTH: 433 words

DATELINE: LOS ANGELES


The government had started deportation proceedings in 1996 against the Egyptian
immigrant who gunned down two people at Los Angeles International Airport. But
the following year, the man gained U.S. residency because his wife received a
valid visa, officials said Saturday.

It was unclear what caused the Immigration and Naturalization Service to reject
Hesham Mohamed Hadayet's first petition for residency and begin the deportation
process, said INS spokesman Francisco Arcaute.

A year later, in 1997, Hadayet was granted permanent resident status because his
wife, Hala, had become a permanent resident, Arcaute said. The INS allows
foreign nationals to work and live in the United States if they have a relative
who is a U.S. citizen or permanent resident.

Hadayet's uncle, Hassan Mostaffa Mahfouz, said in an interview in Egypt that
Hadayet was happy in the United States and had about a year remaining before he
qualified for U.S. citizenship.

Hadayet was the fourth person in line Thursday at the ticket counter for El Al,
Israel's national airline, when he began firing, killing two people and wounding
three others, authorities said. He fired off 10 or 11 bullets before he was shot
dead by an El Al security guard.

In response to the shooting, the new U.S. Transportation Security Administration
announced Saturday that it would station armed law enforcement officers at
airport ticket counters and other public areas of airports.

FBI agent Richard Garcia said Saturday that it still wasn't known why Hadayet
targeted the El Al ticket area. A former employee of Hadayet's has said Hadayet
harbored anti-Israel feelings.

Authorities also had not ruled out terrorism as a motive, and they were
considering the possibility that Hadayet was despondent over his personal or
business affairs. Israeli officials said they would consider the attack an act
of terror unless it was proved otherwise.

Hadayet walked into the airport armed with a .45-caliber semiautomatic Glock
pistol, a 9 mm handgun and a 6-inch hunting knife.

His wife and sons, Adam, 8, and Omar, 14, were visiting family in Egypt at the
time.

The FBI has searched the family's apartment and seized a computer, books,
binders and other material but released no details Saturday.

Abdul Zahav, a man who said he worked for Hadayet until he was fired two years
ago, said Hadayet once told him he hated all Israelis.

A bumper sticker on Hadayet's front door read, "Read the Koran." However,
Hadayet was apparently an unknown in the mosques attended by most of Southern
California's 1 million Arab-Americans.

LOAD-DATE: July 8, 2002

LANGUAGE: English

GRAPHIC: PHOTO; (1) Photo headshot - (Hesham Mohamed) Hadayet - FBI is searching
for motive; (2) Photo by the Associated Press - Policeman Don Bender and his dog
Tosca patrol near the El Al ticket counter on Saturday at Los Angeles
International Airport. A gunman killed two people and injured three others there
Thursday.

                  Copyright 2002 St. Louis Post-Dispatch, Inc.


                              267 of 275 DOCUMENTS

                       St. Louis Post-Dispatch (Missouri)

                   July 11, 2002 Thursday Three Star Edition

HOUSE PANELS OK PLAN FOR SCREENING VISA APPLICATIONS

BYLINE: The Associated Press

SECTION: NEWS ; Pg. A5

LENGTH: 289 words

DATELINE: WASHINGTON


Applications for visas that let millions of foreigners enter the United States
each year would be screened for terrorist threats by the new Homeland Security
Department under legislation approved Wednesday by two House committees.

The approval came from the Judiciary and International Relations committees. It
blocked an effort by several high-ranking lawmakers to strip the visa program
totally from the State Department. That agency issued visas to 12 of the 19
terrorists involved in the attacks of Sept. 11.

The visa plan was among several changes recommended by House committees for the
new Cabinet-level department sought by President George W. Bush. More panels are
set to consider other parts of the proposal today.

But whether any of these changes will remain in the legislation as it moves
through Congress remains an open question.

The Judiciary Committee took the most drastic steps. It voted to keep most of
the Federal Emergency Management Agency independent and to move the Secret
Service from the Treasury Department to the Justice Department.

The panel also recommended moving the Immigration and Naturalization Service's
enforcement arm into the new Homeland Security Department but leaving its
immigrant services work within the Justice Department.

Bush had called for all of these agencies - FEMA, Secret Service and all of INS
- to be moved into the Homeland Security Department.

On the visa issue, several House members have harshly criticized the State
Department as lax.

But Rep. Henry Hyde, R-Ill., chairman of the International Relations Committee,
argued that moving the visa program out of the State Department would require a
large new bureaucracy and cause huge administrative problems.

LOAD-DATE: July 11, 2002

LANGUAGE: English

                  Copyright 2002 St. Louis Post-Dispatch, Inc.


                              268 of 275 DOCUMENTS

                       St. Louis Post-Dispatch (Missouri)

                 July 17, 2002 Wednesday Five Star Lift Edition

THOSE SEEKING U.S. CITIZENSHIP FACE LONGER WAIT SINCE 9-11

BYLINE: Christopher Newton The Associated Press

SECTION: NEWS ; Pg. A7

LENGTH: 443 words

DATELINE: WASHINGTON


The number of people seeking U.S. citizenship has soared since the terrorist
attacks of Sept. 11. But the government is taking longer to approve applicants,
as it seeks to weed out potential terrorists.

Numbers released Tuesday by the Immigration and Naturalization Service reflect
an America changed by the events of Sept. 11.

Immigration officials reported 519,523 applications for citizenship in the
eight-month period that ended May 31 - a jump of 65 percent over the same period
a year before.

Even so, the number of people who got citizenship in the eight months - 337, 590
- dropped by 10 percent from the same period a year earlier.

In the days after the attacks, the government slowed the screening process
because of fears of further terrorism, officials said.

At the same time, larger numbers of immigrants sought citizenship - partly to
show patriotism and partly to avoid a federal dragnet that has detained
thousands of immigrants on technicalities since Sept. 11.

The reasoning was spelled out by Ismat Bayumi, 37, of Dallas, who works with
people seeking citizenship through the Catholic Charities. He said, "People are
eager to apply for naturalization because of the problems they run into, or they
have a friend who had a problem with INS."

Bayumi arrived in the United States in 1996, seeking asylum from Sudan, and
became a citizen May 23. He had applied for citizenship in November, as soon as
he had lived legally inside the United States for five years, as required.

Lisa Gonzales admits that she came to Houston illegally 12 years ago. Even so,
she applied for citizenship on Sept. 13.

"On Sept. 11, I felt as American as anyone ever has," Gonzales said. "This is my
war, too."

Justice Department officials cite both the increase in applications and a
post-Sept. 11 directive urging greater caution in the approval process.

Los Angeles INS official Francisco Arcaute says that since Sept. 11, he has been
moved as he watched men and women grasp their citizenship certificates.

He said, "These people become the best Americans, because they've had to
sacrifice their homeland, and they didn't just inherit U.S. citizenship."

Backlogs for naturalization applications once stretched as long as two years.
The INS began making headway during President Bill Clinton's administration.
President George W. Bush has pushed to reduce it to six months.

Luis Gutierrez of Latinos Progresando in Chicago said patriotism had motivated
many of those seeking citizenship since Sept. 11. He said, "People wanted to
show their pride in this country. I think some people also are scared they may
be losing some of their rights."

LOAD-DATE: July 17, 2002

LANGUAGE: English

NOTES: NATIONAL FOCUS

GRAPHIC: PHOTO, GRAPHIC; (1) Photo by ODELL MITCHELL JR./POST-DISPATCH - This
certificate of U.S. citizenship was given to Erika Hartley of Glen Carbon, a
native of Germany, after she took the oath of allegiance in March.  GRAPHIC
GRAPHICS; (2) Graphic / Bar Chart by THE ASSOCIATED PRESS - More applications,
fewer approvals; Applications for U.S. citizenship rose during the first eight
months of this fiscal year compared with 2001. But the number of people awarded
citizenship dropped.; Oct-May FY 2001 - Applications for naturalization -
314,971; Oct-May FY 2001 - People awarded citizenship - 377,014; Oct-May FY 2002
- Applications for naturalization - 519,523; Oct-May FY 2002 - People awarded
citizenship - 337,590; Source: Immigration and Naturalization Service

                  Copyright 2002 St. Louis Post-Dispatch, Inc.


                              269 of 275 DOCUMENTS

                       St. Louis Post-Dispatch (Missouri)

                    July 28, 2002 Sunday Three Star Edition

HISPANIC NEWSPAPER BEGINS PUBLICATION IN SPRINGFIELD, MO.;
 LAST FALL'S FIRST EDITION HAD 40 COPIES; THE MOST RECENT CONSISTED OF 2,000

BYLINE: Connie Farrow The Associated Press

SECTION: METRO ; Pg. C6

LENGTH: 759 words

DATELINE: SPRINGFIELD, MO.


Requests for help from pregnant immigrants who spoke little English led to the
birth of Springfield's first Hispanic newspaper.

Roberto Velazquez and his wife, Maria Del Rosario Velazquez, were often
approached by women at church for help in finding Spanish-speaking doctors. With
three children of their own, they gladly offered advice.

The couple soon realized there were many other questions they could help answer
for newcomers from Mexico. Both had lived and worked in the United States for
more than 15 years and had dealt with immigration before becoming citizens.

"It's hard when you don't speak very good English," Roberto Velazquez said. "You
don't know who to go to for help or who to trust."

Last November, the couple used their personal computer to produce their first
edition of Semanario-Orgullosamente Latino - meaning Biweekly, proud to be
Latino. It was filled with tips on finding medical care, as well as businesses
that had Spanish-speaking employees. They used their personal printer to create
40 copies on 8-inch-by-10-inch paper.

"We distributed them outside of church," Roberto Velazquez said.

The couple interviews representatives of various agencies, such as the
Immigration and Naturalization Service. They then translate the infor mation
into Spanish.

Most stories are in simple, question and answer format, though the publication
recently featured a nine-part series about citizens who had moved to southwest
Missouri from Mexico and the struggles they faced.

The couple even use a variety of public service announcements, including one
from Children's Trust Fund warning against leaving children alone in cars.

"People need the information, but if they can't read English it is of no use,"
Roberto Velazquez said.

The two eventually got more adept at using computer software to create the
newspaper. Their third edition grew to 120 copies. This time, they gave it away
to area Mexican restaurants and stores in Springfield and nearby Monett that
catered to Hispanics.

"It was like a game," Roberto Velazquez said. "We were having fun with it."

Word spread and the paper grew. They purchased a business-quality copier and
began soliciting advertising to help cover costs.

The seventh edition of Semanario-Orgullosamente Latino was printed more than two
months later in a tabloid format. The couple packed their three children in the
car and spent the day driving to neighboring cities, asking business owners to
give their papers to interested customers.

Some 1,000 copies were distributed in Nixa, Purdy, Cassville, Carthage, Aurora
and Webb City.

The increased Hispanic population in southwest Missouri has created a niche
market for such publications, said Robert L. Norton, professor of Spanish at
Southwest Missouri State University in Springfield.

"It costs a lot of money to publish a paper," he said. "The fact that such
publications exist shows there is a need for media that communicates to the
Hispanic community."

In 25 counties that make up southwest Missouri, the number of Hispanics grew
from 7,579 in 1990 to 22,058 in 2000, according to the U.S. Census. Greene
County - anchored by county seat Springfield - saw a 150 percent increase over
the period, going from 1,775 to 4,434.

Another publication catering to Hispanics is produced in McDonald County, which
saw a nearly 1,600 percent spike from 121 Hispanics counted in 1990 to 2,030 in
2000.

They are largely attracted by jobs in construction and the poultry industry,
Norton said. While they enjoy living in the United States, many struggle with
the language and yearn for things that remind of home.

That's where the Velazquezes come in. Both have college degrees, although
neither studied journalism. He has a degree in computer engineering, while she
studied education.

"People are gaining confidence in us - they trust us to help them," said Maria
Del Rosario Velazquez.

Their newspaper has grown to 2,000 copies. Advertising still covers their costs,
allowing them to give it away. It's professionally printed, and the couple are
working to switch to the broadsheet format used by most newspapers.

"We still do it all - from writing to delivery," Roberto Velazquez said.

Luis Cobayashi, owner of Luis Co. in Springfield, regularly advertises in
Semanario. Customers have told him they sought him out for auto repairs because
he speaks Spanish.

"It makes it easier to understand what needs to be fixed," he said.

Cobayashi himself enjoys the paper.

"It gives us something to read that feels like home," he said.

LOAD-DATE: July 28, 2002

LANGUAGE: English

GRAPHIC: PHOTO; Photo by THE ASSOCIATED PRESS - Maria Del Rosario Velazquez and
Roberto Velazquez work on their newspaper.

                  Copyright 2002 St. Louis Post-Dispatch, Inc.


                              270 of 275 DOCUMENTS

                       St. Louis Post-Dispatch (Missouri)

                 August 13, 2002 Tuesday Five Star Lift Edition

INS SAYS IT HAS BUSTED CHILD SMUGGLING RING

BYLINE: The Associated Press

SECTION: NEWS ; Pg. A3

LENGTH: 341 words

DATELINE: WASHINGTON


A discovery of four lonely children in a Latin American country late last fall
helped Immigration and Naturalization Service agents uncover the largest
international child smuggling ring they have ever found, officials said Monday.

The investigation led Guatemalan authorities to stop seven buses in April,
finding 53 children ages 2 to 17.

That ended a ring that had smuggled hundreds of children into the United States
from Guatemala, El Salvador and Honduras since 1994, agency officials said. The
ring primarily brought to the United States children whose parents were already
here, many of them illegally, officials said.

Johnny Williams, head of field operations for the agency, said the finding of
the lost children triggered the investigation. "It's very uncommon to find small
children unaccompanied, with no ties, not knowing where they were going," he
said. Where they were found wasn't disclosed; officials said the investigation
was continuing.

Immigration officials said the ring took children from their native countries,
brought them to Mexico and then smuggled them into the United States.

Parents paid smugglers $5,000 per child, from infants to teenagers. They crowded
into hotel lobbies to sleep, officials said. Some hungry children cried through
the night, they said.

INS special agents arrested three alleged ring members - Ana Karina Cruz Rivas,
Juan Orlando Servellon DeLeon and Andrea Giron - in Houston last Friday. INS
agents arrested alleged ringleader Berta Campos in Los Angeles last month and
Guillermo Antonio Paniaqua in Houston in June.

All are charged with conspiracy to commit alien smuggling, the immigration
service said. The charges carry a penalty of 10 years in prison and/or a
$250,000 fine, officials said.

As for the children, the INS will review each case to see which ones will be
allowed to stay in the United States, Williams said. If their parents are
undocumented aliens, they could face deportation, but those cases as well will
be reviewed individually, Williams said.

LOAD-DATE: August 13, 2002

LANGUAGE: English

                  Copyright 2002 St. Louis Post-Dispatch, Inc.


                              271 of 275 DOCUMENTS

                       St. Louis Post-Dispatch (Missouri)

                 August 16, 2002 Friday Five Star Lift Edition

FOX'S SNUB OF BUSH IS LATEST STRAIN IN WEAKENING RELATIONS;
 BUT WHITE HOUSE ARGUES FRIENDSHIP IS STILL STRONG

BYLINE: From News Services

SECTION: NEWS ; Pg. A2

LENGTH: 318 words

DATELINE: WASHINGTON


The decision of President Vicente Fox of Mexico to cancel a visit with President
George W. Bush underscores the fraying of ties that united the two leaders.

Fox had been due to visit Bush at his Texas ranch later this month as part of a
three-day stay in Texas. But Mexico announced late Wednesday that he was
canceling the trip to protest the execution of a Mexican citizen in Texas.

"It is a significant snub," said Larry Birns, director of the Council on
Hemispheric Affairs.

Bush and Fox formed a bond, which Birns called an "image-making, public
relations event needed by both sides," when they were governors on their way to
higher office. Early in his presidency, Bush called relations with Mexico and
the rest of Latin America a top foreign-policy priority.

Bush's first foreign trip was to Fox's ranch, and Fox was the guest of honor at
Bush's first White House state dinner Sept. 5. The next day, the two leaders
trumpeted their friendship on a trip to Ohio.

But since the Sept. 11 attacks, Fox has been frustrated by the stalling of his
drive to ease U.S. immigration policy and by clampdowns at border crossings that
have made trade and immigration more difficult.

His popularity at home has eroded along with the prospects of turning closer
ties with the United States into more jobs for Mexican citizens.

"There was this Hollywood-style marriage between Fox and Bush. ... It wasn't
meant to last," Birns said.

The White House played down the cancellation, saying ties between the two
leaders remained strong.

"President Bush respects President Fox, and the two have an excellent
professional relationship and a strong friendship that reflects the deep bonds
between the two countries," the White House said.

Fox scrapped the visit after the execution Wednesday of Javier Suarez Medina,
33. Fox had failed in appeals to Bush and Texas Gov. Rick Perry to halt the
execution.

LOAD-DATE: August 16, 2002

LANGUAGE: English

NOTES: PAGE TWO

GRAPHIC: PHOTO; Photo by THE ASSOCIATED PRESS - Mexican President Vicente Fox
met with residents of Tijuana, Mexico, on April 15. Fox, who had enjoyed a warm
relationship with the United States and President George W. Bush, canceled a
visit with Bush after the execution of a Mexican citizen in Texas.

                  Copyright 2002 St. Louis Post-Dispatch, Inc.


                              272 of 275 DOCUMENTS

                       St. Louis Post-Dispatch (Missouri)

                August 17, 2002 Saturday Five Star Lift Edition

HEAD OF INS WILL LEAVE POST AT YEAR'S END

BYLINE: The Associated Press

SECTION: NEWS ; Pg. 22

LENGTH: 347 words

DATELINE: WASHINGTON


* James Ziglar tells Bush that he will assist with the transition to a Homeland
Security Department.

The head of the Immigration and Naturalization Service announced Friday that he
will resign at the end of the year, culminating a short term at the helm of an
agency that critics said was ill-prepared for Sept. 11 and slow to react.

James Ziglar, who took over the job Aug. 6, 2001, told President George W. Bush
in a letter that he would remain to assist with the transition to a new Homeland
Security Department. Ziglar said he planned to go into the private sector.

Ziglar, 56, was barely a month into the job when the attacks occurred. That
dramatically shifted his priorities from improving the agency's services for
immigrants to implementing ways to better track foreigners and tighten the
borders.

"Although I could not have imagined the events of September 11 and the dramatic
changes visited upon the Immigration and Naturalization Service, I have done my
best to continue making progress toward the goals of restructuring the agency
and reducing backlogs while responding to the call to arms in the war on
terrorism," Ziglar said in his resignation letter, dated Thursday.

Ziglar said in a message to employees that Sept. 11 and the new Homeland
Security Department had changed the context of his mandate from Bush to
restructure the agency.

"Knowing these goals will be successfully accomplished as part of a larger and
stronger agency, it is an appropriate time for me to return to private life,"
Ziglar said in the memo.

Ziglar worked in the investment banking industry before becoming Senate
sergeant-at-arms in 1998. He also is a lawyer and has held other federal
government jobs.

The immigration service received strong condemnation from members of both
parties after it was learned that 15 of the 19 hijackers on Sept. 11 entered the
United States legally on travel visas. Three were admitted with business visas
and one entered on a student visa.

Ziglar said most of the hijackers still were legally in the country when the
attacks occurred.

LOAD-DATE: August 17, 2002

LANGUAGE: English

NOTES: NATION / WORLD

GRAPHIC: PHOTO; Photo headshot - (James) Ziglar - Took over the job a year ago

                  Copyright 2002 St. Louis Post-Dispatch, Inc.


                              273 of 275 DOCUMENTS

                       St. Louis Post-Dispatch (Missouri)

                September 2, 2002 Monday Five Star Lift Edition

WILLIAMS' FATHER EXPRESSES CONCERN AFTER POLICE ARREST STALKER AT U.S. OPEN

BYLINE: The Associated Press

SECTION: SPORTS ; Pg. C3

LENGTH: 430 words

DATELINE: NEW YORK


Serena Williams' father says the top-ranked tennis player isn't as worried as
she should be about a man arrested at the U.S. Open and charged with stalking
her.

"I'm extremely concerned," Richard Williams said Sunday. "It's getting worse."

Albrecht Stromeyer, a 34-year-old German, was arrested at the National Tennis
Center and was being held on $3,000 bond. His first court appearance was
scheduled for Thursday.

On Sunday, the Immigration and Naturalization Service filed a detainer against
Stromeyer, meaning he would be taken into federal custody if released on bail,
said Corrections Department spokesman Tom Antenen.

INS spokesman Bill Strassberger said detainers are usually filed against inmates
with immigration violations such as expired visas. He did not have details about
Stromeyer's case.

"I don't think Serena takes it seriously enough," Richard Williams said. "She's
20 years old. As a father, it really concerns me."

He said he also worried that the low bail set by the judge might fur ther
encourage Stromeyer.

Stromeyer was arrested and charged with two counts of stalking after police
spotted him watching through a fence Friday as Williams, the reigning Wimbledon
and French Open champion, played her third-round match against Nathalie Dechy.
An officer recognized him from a photo given to police by Williams' manager.

Stromeyer admitted in a written statement to police that he had been following
Serena Williams around the world.

In July, he was arrested outside the gates of Wimbledon after scuffling with
police and told the officers he loves her and would never hurt her.

"I don't really pay any attention to anything like that," she said at the time.
"But I don't see how it could affect my game, him being arrested. I'm a strong
person. I try not to let things like that affect me."

In May, he was ordered to leave Italy after police at the Italian Open received
word of his history of harassing Williams. Two months earlier, he had walked
into an Arizona hotel-resort where Serena Williams was playing and asked to see
her. When Stromeyer was turned down, he began undressing in front of the desk
clerk. He was charged with disorderly conduct and indecent exposure.

Williams' mother, Oracene, also reported seeing Stromeyer at a Berlin tournament
in May and at the French Open in June.

Serena Williams has been traveling with a bodyguard since May. During Wimbledon,
she said: "I do have my own security here because the more famous you get, the
worse it gets. I just try to take extra precautions because I like living."

LOAD-DATE: September 2, 2002

LANGUAGE: English

NOTES: TENNIS U.S. OPEN

                  Copyright 2002 St. Louis Post-Dispatch, Inc.


                              274 of 275 DOCUMENTS

                       St. Louis Post-Dispatch (Missouri)

                 January 4, 2002 Friday Five Star Lift Edition

CONNECTING WITH LAWYERS PROVES PROBLEMATIC FOR SOME DETAINEES ;
 ONE ATTORNEY SAYS IT TOOK HER A MONTH TO FIND CALIFORNIA DENTIST ;
 ASHCROFT PROMISES ACCESS

BYLINE: Darlene Superville The Associated Press

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. A5

LENGTH: 640 words

DATELINE: WASHINGTON


After dentist Tarek Mohamed Fayad was arrested at a gas station near his home in
California, he was held in one detention center, then another, then was sent
cross-country to New York City. His attorney needed more than a month to find
him.

And Fayad's story is far from rare.

Lawyers say that government assurances aside, bringing suspects and their
attorneys together is proving difficult for some caught up in the sweep against
terrorism.

The problem is greater for obscure suspects such as Fayad.

High-profile defendant Zacarias Moussaoui - the first person charged in the
terrorist attacks of Sept. 11 - was represented in court this week by two public
defenders and a private court-appointed attorney.

And although American Taliban John Walker is being held by the U.S. armed forces
overseas, he is represented from afar by one of San Francisco's most prominent
attorneys.

At last count, more than 500 people, most of Middle Eastern descent, were in
federal custody. Most are accused of immigration violations.

Lawyers talk of some detainees being moved from place to place and of others
being limited to one phone call a week.

Robert Precht of the University of Michigan Law School said: "People are being
held secretly. Friends and relatives don't know where they are."

Fayad, 34, came to the United States from Egypt in 1998. Two days after the
attacks in September, he was arrested near his home in Colton, Calif., and was
accused of violating his student visa.

Bail was set at $2,500, then revoked. Friends hired Los Angeles immigration
lawyer Valerie Curtis-Diop. She needed a month of telephone calls to track him
down.

She said, "I've never had this kind of difficulty locating or communicating with
a client - never."

Now, nearly four months after his arrest, the FBI has cleared him of terrorist
involvement, she said. Even so, Fayad remains in a New York detention center and
faces deportation, Curtis-Diop said.

Detainees held on immigration charges, such as Fayad, lack the right to federal
public defenders and must hire lawyers or find volunteers.

Some immigration court hearings are being closed to the public, including the
defendants' families. That cuts off a potential source of information about the
detainees.

They'll stay locked up until the FBI finishes investigating the tips that
brought them to the attention of authorities in the first place, immigration
officials say.

Attorney General John Ashcroft has promised to make sure detainees in the
custody of the Immigration and Naturalization Service have access to a lawyer.
Lists of lawyers who work for free are distributed to them, and lawyers are also
brought through the detention centers regularly to meet potential clients,
Ashcroft has said.

"I do not intend to hold individuals without access to counsel," he has said,
"and we will take steps to make sure that we don't."

But sometimes, the process is bumpy. Some lawyers on the pro-bono lists turn out
not to be handling immigration cases, and one list included a wrong telephone
number for the Legal Aid Society of New York, said Jeanne Butterfield of the
American Immigration Lawyers Association.

The group knows of about 70 lawyers who are representing detainees. But with
hundreds in custody, "it's a good hunch that many of these folks are
unrepresented," Butterfield said.

Irwin Schwartz of the National Association of Criminal Defense Lawyers said,
"The reality is, very sadly, we don't know if these people's legal needs are
being met."

The American Civil Liberties Union and other groups recently sued the government
under the Freedom of Information Act to get basic information about the people
it is holding.

Ashcroft says that some of the detainees could belong to Osama bin Laden's
terrorist network and that identifying them could aid the enemy.

LOAD-DATE: January 4, 2002

LANGUAGE: English

NOTES: WAR ON TERROR

GRAPHIC: PHOTO; Photo Headshot - (Attorney General) Ashcroft, Promises access to
a lawyer

                  Copyright 2002 St. Louis Post-Dispatch, Inc.


                              275 of 275 DOCUMENTS

                       St. Louis Post-Dispatch (Missouri)

                  March 31, 2002 Sunday Five Star Lift Edition

NATION/WORLD

BYLINE: From News Services

SECTION: NEWS; Nation/World Briefs Column; Pg. A13

LENGTH: 535 words


MONTGOMERY, Ala

Civil rights attorney is first black to head bar

Civil rights attorney Fred Gray Sr. has been named president of the Alabama
State Bar Association, the first African-American in the post.

Gray, 71, of Tuskegee, once represented Rosa Parks and the Rev. Martin Luther
King Jr. He takes office July 20.

State Bar director Keith Norman said members chose Gray without dissent, calling
him "one of the deans of civil rights lawyers."

NEW YORK

New York mayor spent $76 million to get job

Billionaire Republican Michael Bloomberg spent more than $76 million of his own
money to become mayor of New York City - a record for a nonpresidential election
in the United States.

The final tally shows he spent $73.9 million during his race to defeat Democrat
Mark Green, and $2.5 million on his transition and inaugural ceremony, according
to papers filed by his campaign staff Friday.

That amounts to more than four times what Green spent, and exceeds the combined
$68.9 million spent by Democrat Hillary Clinton and Republican Rick Lazio in the
2000 U.S. Senate race.

Bloomberg, who is worth an estimated $4.5 billion, owns the financial data
company Bloomberg L.P.

WOOMERA, Australia

Troubled detention center beefs up security staff

Dozens of extra security staff were bused into a troubled detention center early
Sunday as the hunt continued for 11 refugees who fled Friday after a mass
breakout.

Immigration officials said 47 refugees escaped from Woomera Detention Center, a
former missile-testing base where 300 mostly Afghan and Iraqi refugees are being
held. All but 11 were later rounded up.

The escape took place as police clashed with hundreds of protesters
demonstrating against Australia's policy of detaining illegal immigrants in
remote camps while their applications for asylum are processed, which can take
up to three years.

INDIA

Assault at Hindu temple leaves 10 dead, 20 injured

Suspected Islamic militants set off several grenades and exchanged gunfire with
police Saturday at a 150-year-old Hindu temple in Indian-controlled Kashmir,
police said. Ten people were killed and 20 injured.

Two attackers got out of a white van outside the temple in a crowded shopping
district in Jammu, the winter capital of Jammu-Kashmir state, and threw several
grenades, a police officer said.

One attacker carried a gun into the temple and engaged in a shootout with
security forces. He was later found dead inside the temple, police said.

The second attacker was killed before he could enter the shrine, the officer
said. Police were searching for a third man who drove the van.

ANGOLA

Preliminary cease-fire is signed in 30-year war

Angola's UNITA rebels said Saturday they intend to sign a formal cease-fire this
week in the country's nearly three-decade-old civil war, Portuguese media
reported.

A preliminary agreement for the pact was signed Saturday by the Angolan army's
Gen. Geraldo Sachipengo and UNITA representative Geraldo Abreu, the Portuguese
national news agency Lusa reported.

The recent deaths of rebel leader Jonas Savimbi and the group's vice president,
Antonio Dembo, raised hopes that the civil war could soon end.

LOAD-DATE: March 31, 2002

LANGUAGE: English

                  Copyright 2002 St. Louis Post-Dispatch, Inc.
