
                               1 of 268 DOCUMENTS

                       St. Louis Post-Dispatch (Missouri)

                    June 17, 1991, MONDAY, FIVE STAR Edition

IMMIGRATION 'REFORM' REFORMED NOTHING ILLEGAL WORKERS STILL SURGE IN;; EMPLOYERS
HAVE EXCUSE FOR DISCRIMINATION

BYLINE: Dick Meister

SECTION: EDITORIAL; Pg. 3B

LENGTH: 686 words


Remember back five years ago when Congress passed that wondrously promising
legislation known as the Immigration Reform and Control Act? Remember how it was
going to curb the heavy and ever-increasing flow of alien farm workers who were
entering the country illegally? How that would force fruit and vegetable growers
to improve the shameful pay and working conditions that long had been standard
for alien and domestic farm workers alike?  Well, surprise. Recent studies from
government and private sources show that illegal immigration actually has
increased and that the pay and conditions of farm workers have remained well
below those of virtually all other occupational groups.  The 1986 law was
supposed to accomplish the opposite by offering legal residential status -
''amnesty,'' as it was called - to aliens who, although living and working in
this country illegally, could prove they had been doing it since at least 1982.
Halting other aliens from entering illegally would be easy, for any employers
hiring them would be subject to fines and possibly jail sentences.  But
employers were required only to ascertain that aliens seeking work carried the
easily counterfeited government papers issued those who had been granted
amnesty. Employers could accept any document that ''reasonably appears on its
face to be genuine.'' The result, noted in a recent report by the Center for
Immigration Studies in Washington, D.C., has been widespread use of fraudulent
documents ''by both workers and growers to circumvent the law.'' A substantial
number of non-agricultural employers have been citing the ready availability of
phoney papers as an excuse for automatically rejecting all ''foreign looking''
job applicants. The discrimination this has caused against minorities who are
here legally has become so serious that civil rights groups and others are
clamoring for repeal of the sanctions against employers who hire undocumented
aliens.  It's a much different situation for the agricultural employers, who
have always relied primarily on minority workers, documented and undocumented
alike. But in any case, the undocumented keep coming at a steadily escalating
rate that has reached more than 200,000 a year.  By now, there are almost 5
million of them, plus more than 1 million other aliens who were granted amnesty.
They are among the most exploited of workers, even though many perform the
essential task of harvesting the food that sustains us all. Before the
immigration law was enacted, undocumented farm workers dared not complain about
their miserable pay and working conditions, lest growers report them to the
government for deportation. But now neither they nor those who are here legally
dare complain, lest they lose their jobs to the aliens who are pouring across
the border from Mexico and other impoverished Latin American nations.  As
always, most of the workers can expect pay no higher than the federal minimum -
currently $4.25 an hour - very few fringe benefits and not even such basic
on-the-job amenities as fresh drinking water and toilets. Their living
conditions generally are as bad as their working conditions and most of the
workers are not even eligible for unemployment or welfare benefits and have no
effective union representation.  The immigration law was to change that by
denying growers their usual unlimited supply of workers with no choice but to
accept whatever they offered. Growers were to compete for workers like any other
employers, attracting them, if necessary, by raising pay and improving
conditions. But the continued influx of undocumented aliens has dashed that hope
and increased the farm workers' vulnerability to exploitation by greatly
increasing the number competing for jobs.  It's not going to get any better,
either. The aliens are far too desperate for jobs to stay away, growers are far
too eager for cheap labor to turn them down, and government agencies are far too
shorthanded to do much about it.  Dick Meister, a San Francisco journalist, is
co-author of ''A Long Time Coming: The Struggle to Unionize America's Farm
Workers.''

LOAD-DATE: October 13, 1993

LANGUAGE: English

                  Copyright 1991 St. Louis Post-Dispatch, Inc.


                               2 of 268 DOCUMENTS

                       St. Louis Post-Dispatch (Missouri)

                   April 6, 1990, FRIDAY, THREE STAR Edition

DON'T RESOTRT TO NATIONAL ID CARDS

SECTION: EDITORIAL; Pg. 2B

LENGTH: 494 words


Gene McNary, the former St. Louis County executive who now heads the Immigration
and Naturalization Service, has suggested two ways to correct job discrimination
that has resulted from the immigration reform law. First, he says, the federal
government can publicize provisions that ban such discrimination based on an
applicant's appearance or accent; second, the government can consider some form
of identification card to help workers secure a job. The first remedy makes
sense; the second causes more problems than it solves.  A report issued last
week by the General Accounting Office confirmed what many had suspected since
the immigration reform act took effect: Parts of the 1986 law that called for
penalties against employers who hire illegal aliens have resulted in
discrimination against people with a foreign appearance or accent. Rather than
risk hiring illegal aliens who have false papers, the GAO report said, as many
as 10 percent of the nation's employers have shied away from hiring anyone who
might be suspect - a practice that has resulted in a ''widespread pattern of
discrimination.'' When the reform law was passed, the need for a job ID card to
avoid discrimination was discussed but rejected because of civil liberties
considerations. Those concerns are as valid today as they were then and
shouldn't be ignored just because of the GAO report. Once such cards are
required to get a job, who knows what other, improper uses will be dreamed up
for them? Carrying identification at all times is antithetical to American
ideals. Rather than introduce such cards - or repeal the employer sanctions,
which has also been suggested - Mr. McNary's education remedy should be tried.
Publicizing the law's ban on discrimination can emphasize to workers and
employers that legal aliens deserve fair treatment. That's what the reform law
was meant to achieve; that's what government efforts should concentrate on now.

LOAD-DATE: October 14, 1993

LANGUAGE: English

                  Copyright 1990 St. Louis Post-Dispatch, Inc.


                               3 of 268 DOCUMENTS

                       St. Louis Post-Dispatch (Missouri)

                  February 25, 1991, MONDAY, FIVE STAR Edition

FIRST AMNESTY, THEN FAIRNESS

SECTION: EDITORIAL; Pg. 2B

LENGTH: 312 words


Judging by the blatantly unfair practices that immigration officials used in
implementing Congress' amnesty program for certain illegal aliens, the U.S.
Supreme Court was entirely correct in allowing the actions of the Immigration
and Naturalization Service to be challenged in court. Without such redress, the
INS would have been able to get away with abuses that rendered the amnesty
program meaningless for thousands of illegal aliens.  The ruling upheld an
appellate court ruling on behalf of 20,000 Haitians who had been denied amnesty
under a program designed to benefit agricultural workers. The workers claimed
the INS had violated their rights of due process by denying them the opportunity
to present witnesses and failing to provide them with competent interpreters.
In response, the government had argued that a portion of the 1986 law that
established the amnesty program prohibits judicial review of applications until
an alien is about to be deported. But the Supreme Court agreed with a contention
by the workers that Congress had only meant to bar review of individual
applications, not of the fairness of INS procedures as a whole.  Justice John
Paul Stevens, writing for the majority, said that to deny such a review of the
agency's procedures would amount to blocking any meaningful review of their
claims and would be the ''practical equivalent of a total denial'' of a court
hearing.  For any effort such as the amnesty program to work, it must give
applicants every chance to succeed in changing their status. By recognizing this
need, Justice Stevens has written what the president of the American Bar
Association called ''one of the most important immigration decisions in the last
quarter century.'' More to the point, it gave thousands of immigrants new
confidence in the American way of life they are seeking to become a part of.

LOAD-DATE: October 8, 1993

LANGUAGE: English

                  Copyright 1991 St. Louis Post-Dispatch, Inc.


                               4 of 268 DOCUMENTS

                       St. Louis Post-Dispatch (Missouri)

                   July 11, 1991, THURSDAY, FIVE STAR Edition

FRANCE NEW IMMIGRATION CONTROLS ANNOUNCED

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 10A

LENGTH: 848 words


Fueling an already heated nationwide debate, the Socialist government announced
new measures Wednesday to fight illegal immigration, from tightening border
controls to hiring airplanes for mass deportations.  The proposed measures also
would make it harder to obtain visas, reinforce personnel at immigration posts
and set tougher penalties for employers who use illegal immigrant workers.
Premier Edith Cresson presented the program to the Cabinet in Paris amid a
rising debate over whether France has let in too many immigrants, many of whom
are Arabs from North Africa.  Associated Press PAKISTAN Secret Trials, Police
Powers Defended A Pakistani Cabinet minister defended Draconian new government
powers, including secret trials, to deal with a wave of criminal and political
violence.  Oil Minister Nisar Ali Khan said in Islamabad that an abnormal
situation required abnormal measures.  (NOTE: THE FOLLOWING PARAGRAPH APPEARED
IN THE 3* EDITION ONLY) He said that the southern province of Sind had been a
festering sore for more than seven years and that the government had decided to
send a clear signal that anyone who broke the law ''would get it in the neck.''
(END OF 3* EDITION TEXT) President Ghulam Ishaq Khan issued two decrees Tuesday
- allowing summary trials in secret of people accused of violence, and
empowering security forces to shoot suspects who defy orders in areas declared
as terrorist-affected.  Reuters PERU Police Mistakenly Shoot Down Plane Police
mistook a small commercial airliner for a drug smuggling plane and shot it down,
killing at least six people, the armed forces said Wednesday in Lima. Radio and
newspaper reports said up to 12 people had been killed when the plane, belonging
to Aerochasqui airlines, was shot down Tuesday over a northern coca-producing
jungle region.  An army spokesman said police had shot down the plane because
they believed it was one of dozens of aircraft that daily carry coca paste from
Peru for processing in Colombia.  Associated Press EL SALVADOR Fighting Erupts
Despite Peace Talks Scores of leftist guerrillas and government soldiers were
killed or wounded in fighting that erupted as the two sides resumed peace talks
in Mexico City, officials said Wednesday.  Representatives of the Farabundo
Marti National Liberation Front and the U.S.-backed rightist government of
President Alfredo Cristiani have been meeting for 14 months to end the
11-year-old civil war.  The heaviest fighting was reported in Nueva Concepcion,
30 miles north of San Salvador. Combat raged there for more than 12 hours
Tuesday, and reporters who visited the town said they had seen the bodies of 11
soldiers and one civilian.  Associated Press NATION CRIME CONTROL Senate Breaks
Impasse, Passes Bill Senate leaders broke a lingering impasse Wednesday night
over the wide-ranging crime control bill and cleared the way for final passage
of the measure today.  After failing to muster enough support earlier in a day
filled with partisan wrangling, the Senate agreed 71-27 late Wednesday on a
motion to limit amendments and expedite a vote on the $3.3 billion bill.  The
bill would restrict the rights of prisoners, expand police powers, extend the
federal death penalty to cover 51 crimes, impose a five-day waiting period for
handgun purchases and ban nine types of assault-style semiautomatic weapons.
President George Bush has indicated he could support such a bill.  Cox
WASHINGTON Senators Would Fund Space Station Ignoring the protests of major
scientific societies, a Senate panel voted Wednesday to spend $2 billion next
year toward building a space station, the same amount requested by President
George Bush.  The action, by a Senate Appropriations subcommittee, is expected
to be approved today by the full Appropriations Committee. The space station is
estimated by NASA to cost $30 billion by the time it is put in orbit around the
turn of the century.  (NOTE: THE FOLLOWING PARAGRAPH APPEARED IN THE 3* EDITION
ONLY) The presidents of 14 professional science societies sent a letter to the
Senate expressing strong opposition to the station.  (END OF 3* EDITION TEXT)
Associated Press COLORADO Retired Policeman Charged In Killings A retired Denver
policeman has been charged with first-degree murder in the deaths of four
security guards in a $100,000 robbery at the United Bank of Denver.  James King
was charged Tuesday with four counts of first-degree murder, four counts of
first-degree felony murder, one count of aggravated robbery and six counts of
menacing, said District Attorney Norm Early.  Associated Press (NOTE: THE
FOLLOWING TEXT APPEARED IN THE 3* EDITION ONLY) WASHINGTON Mars Trip Would Cost
'Small Amount' Former astronaut Thomas Stafford told Congress Wednesday that
little start-up money would be required to set the nation on a course to Mars in
the next century.  ''If we wait until we have a budgetary surplus, I'm afraid we
will never take this bold, imaginative step,'' Stafford told the House space
subcommittee. ''This small amount will generate much leverage.'' Associated
Press

LOAD-DATE: October 14, 1993

LANGUAGE: English

GRAPHIC: Photo; PHOTO by AP ... Treasure Hunt ... Residents of the town of
Porac, in the Philippines, combing through volcanic ash Wednesday for crystals
they believed contained diamonds. Dozens of villagers in the area fled Wednesday
in the face of flooding. PHOTO HEADSHOT of (Edith) Cresson

                  Copyright 1991 St. Louis Post-Dispatch, Inc.


                               5 of 268 DOCUMENTS

                       St. Louis Post-Dispatch (Missouri)

                   August 16, 1991, FRIDAY, FIVE STAR Edition

A VICTORY FOR IMMIGRANT CHILDREN

SECTION: EDITORIAL; Pg. 2C

LENGTH: 305 words


Children who have been used as pawns in the fight by immigration officials to
lure and deport illegal aliens have won a crucial and well-deserved victory for
human rights. A federal appeals court in San Francisco has ruled that the
Immigration and Naturalization Service can no longer hold children in detention
pending their deportation until their parents come forward to take custody. The
decision should end a long fight over an inhumane policy.  The legal battle
began in 1985, when the INS policy was challenged in court. Immigration
officials were then holding about 2,000 children suspected of being illegal
aliens and refusing to release them to anyone but their parents or legal
guardians, instead of other relatives or welfare agencies. In some cases, the
suit alleged, the children were being held in unsafe, unsanitary conditions and
were just being used as bait to force their parents to come and get them.  An
injunction against the policy was issued in 1988, but the INS appealed. A
three-judge appeals panel reinstated the policy two years ago, but the full 9th
U.S. Circuit Court of Appeals ruled in a sharply worded opinion last week that
the policy serves no useful purpose and deprives the children involved of their
constitutional rights. In her majority opinion, Judge Mary M.  Schroeder wrote
that the government may not detain children ''who have not been convicted of any
crime, do not pose a risk of flight and who have not been determined to present
any threat of harm to themselves or to the community.'' The case, which had
drawn attention from such groups as Amnesty International, is a small but
welcome victory for civil rights in an era where such suits too rarely are
successful. The immigration agency should accept the ruling and give alien
children back the rights that they deserve.

LOAD-DATE: October 14, 1993

LANGUAGE: English

                  Copyright 1991 St. Louis Post-Dispatch, Inc.


                               6 of 268 DOCUMENTS

                       St. Louis Post-Dispatch (Missouri)

                  October 14, 1991, MONDAY, FIVE STAR Edition

IMMIGRATION LAW NEEDS ADJUSTMENTS

SECTION: EDITORIAL; Pg. 2B

LENGTH: 351 words


The landmark immigration bill passed by Congress in 1986 was designed to curb
the flow of illegal aliens. But an unintended consequence of the law has been
discrimination against Americans with foreign-sounding names; some employers
have been reluctant to hire them because of fears they might be hit with stiff
penalties against hiring illegal immigrants. A coalition of legislators,
business and civil rights groups, including some who often are at odds on other
legislation, has proposed changes to ease the situation. The effort should be
taken seriously.  The law requires employers to verify that prospective workers
have not entered the country illegally. The provision was viewed as a
legislative compromise that would provide amnesty for some aliens who had evaded
immigration laws, but it was intended to discourage future illegal immigrants by
denying them jobs once they entered the United States.  Unfortunately, the law
had a negative spinoff effect: People who looked like immigrants or had
foreign-sounding names were having a hard time finding jobs with employers who
were afraid of suffering the penalties in the law. ''We aimed at illegal
aliens,'' said Sen. Edward Kennedy, the Massachusetts Democrat who supports a
change in the law, ''but we hit law-abiding Americans.'' The General Accounting
Office last year said the law does not provide a si mple, reliable way for job
applicants to verify their eligibility. One solution would to simplify that
process. Another, included in the proposed revision of the law, would beef up
the Border Patrol, to help stem illegal immigration. Republican Sen. Alan K.
Simpson of Wyoming, who shepherded the original reform law through Congress,
says the proposed changes would send the wrong message that the United States is
not serious about immigration control. He discounts the reports of bias against
Americans as overstated. A compromise should be found, one that protects
employers and legal workers while safeguarding attempts to keep illegal aliens
out. Only then will the original intent of immigration reform be achieved.

LOAD-DATE: October 13, 1993

LANGUAGE: English

                  Copyright 1991 St. Louis Post-Dispatch, Inc.


                               7 of 268 DOCUMENTS

                       St. Louis Post-Dispatch (Missouri)

                  March 1, 1989, WEDNESDAY, FIVE STAR Edition

OFFICIALS SEIZE 69 ILLEGAL ALIENS NEAR AIRPLANE

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 13A

LENGTH: 347 words


LOS ANGELES (AP) - Immigration officials seized 69 illegal aliens about to board
the same cross-country flight early Tuesday on which 79 undocumented immigrants
were taken into custody the night before, authorities said.  The 69 were trying
to board an Eastern Airlines flight to New York by way of Atlanta, said Joe
Flanders, a spokesman for the Immigration and Naturalization Service. He said 54
were from Mexico, seven from El Salvador, four from Colombia and four from
Guatemala. Most will be allowed to go home or request a deportation hearing, he
said.  Flanders said one man had been arrested and might have been the principal
smuggler.  On Monday, authorities seized 79 illegal aliens during Flight 80's
5:35 a.m. stopover in Atlanta. Authorities acted based on tips from airline
sources and someone who often traveled the route and became suspicious of fellow
passengers.  Investigators believe illegal aliens have been aboard the Eastern
overnight flight nearly every day for the past 30 days, said Tom Thomas, a
spokesman for the immigration service in Atlanta.  Thomas said some of the
aliens said they had paid up to $4,000 for a package, but authorities do not
know what that deal included other than air fare from California to New York.
The package could have included living arrangements, phony documents and a job,
he added.

LOAD-DATE: October 23, 1993

LANGUAGE: English

                  Copyright 1989 St. Louis Post-Dispatch, Inc.


                               8 of 268 DOCUMENTS

                       St. Louis Post-Dispatch (Missouri)

                  March 30, 1989, THURSDAY, FIVE STAR Edition

19 ALIENS ARRESTED HERE SENT TO TEXAS

BYLINE: Tim Bryant Of the Post-Dispatch Staff

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 6A

LENGTH: 400 words


Nineteen illegal aliens from Costa Rica and Ecuador were flown Wednesday from
St. Louis to Texas for a hearing that an immigration official said probably
would lead to their deportation.  Twenty-two people - including one woman, a
teen-age boy and a teen-age girl - in two vans were arrested Monday. Chester
Moyer, officer in charge of the Immigration and Naturalization Service in St.
Louis, said an investigation had determined that one of the men taken into
custody was a U.S. citizen. Another has permanent resident status, and a third
has temporary resident status, he said. They were released.  Both groups of
aliens arrested Monday told immigration officials that they had entered the
United States from Mexico. Where and how they crossed the border was unclear.
The aliens in one group told officials their journey had begun in Costa Rica;
others said Ecuador.  They told authorities they were traveling to New York and
New Jersey, where they planned to find friends and relatives and to seek jobs
doing janitorial work, Moyer said. Each had paid about $1,000 to ''smugglers''
to enter the United States illegally, he said.  The first van, carrying 11
people, was discovered by police about 4 a.m. Monday in Sunset Hills, at a
service station on Lindbergh Boulevard near Interstate 44. The Highwa y Patrol
stopped the second van about 8:30 a.m. on I-44, possibly because the van fit a
profile of vehicles used by smugglers of illegal drugs and aliens, Moyer said.

LOAD-DATE: October 23, 1993

LANGUAGE: English

                  Copyright 1989 St. Louis Post-Dispatch, Inc.


                               9 of 268 DOCUMENTS

                       St. Louis Post-Dispatch (Missouri)

               July 6, 1989, THURSDAY, ILLINOIS FIVE STAR Edition

NEARLY 2 MILLION IMMIGRANTS SHED ILLEGALITY

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 920 words


CHICAGO (AP) - While most U.S. citizens celebrated Independence Day as the
nation's 213th birthday this week, thousands of formerly illegal aliens
considered the day a first - at least in their new status as would-be Americans.
''I felt like a bird, ready to fly all over the place,'' said Carlos Jaramillo,
describing the elation that came with his eligibility to apply for citizenship
under the Immigration Reform and Control Act of 1986.  Jaramillo had lived in
the United States illegally for 12 years, learning the language, attending high
school and taking on the ways of his adopted home. He expects to be allowed to
stay easily under the Immigration Act's amnesty program.  He took eight hours of
classes on the United States and hopes that next month he'll pass the test that
can be required for citizenship or permanent residency.  But for others, those
who never learned English or who are illiterate in their native language,
achieving the basic requirements can be more difficult.  The new immigration law
requires that those seeking permanent residency either pass an exam to prove
they know some English and some facts about the United States, or complete at
least 40 hours of a 60-hour English and civics course.  More than 1.7 million
illegal immigrants nationwide - including 130,000 in the Chicago area -
qualified for the amnesty program before it expired last year. The law allowed
them to become temporary residents if they had been living here since before
1982. So far, more than 200,000 have gone on to try to become permanent
residents. Almost all who have tried - 99 percent - have passed, said
Immigration and Naturalization Service spokesman Jerry Ficklin.  Those who don't
meet the requirements could face deportation.  If a person does achieve
permanent residency, he must wait five years to become a full citizen.  Edward
Soja is one of those who is having to work a little harder at staying.  An
immigrant from Poland who lived in Chicago for nine years and has bought a
business, Soja has never before felt the need to learn English.  Now he and
other middle-aged Poles who have been here for years are taking English for the
first time.  ''They haven't really tried or didn't want to try or they couldn't
or they wouldn't,'' said Andrzej Borowiec, a teacher with the Polish Welfare
Association.  ''There was resentment about the classes at first,'' said
Borowiec's wife, Joanna, who also teaches. ''They said, 'Why do we have to do
this? We work. We pay taxes.''' But Soja's case was easier than some, where
students can neither read nor write in their native languages.  ''I had a
student who always sat apart,'' said Joanna Borowiec. ''After one of the classes
she came to me, crying. She came to tell me why she was slower than the others.
She said she was in school only six months in her whole life.  ... She said, 'I
sit alone because I don't want people to notice.''' For some formerly illegal
aliens, a loyalty to their native land makes them reluctant to become full U.S.
citizens, and they stop at achieving permanent residency. While these people
can't vote, they have protected their right to live in this country and to
travel back and forth to their native land.  Others, like Blanca Valdez, want
citizenship, not only because of the right to vote but also because they can
then seek residency for family members.  Although the Guatemalan native and her
four other children qualified for legalization under the amnesty, her
18-year-old son didn't.  ''I want to become a citizen to fix my son's case,''
she said.

LOAD-DATE: October 25, 1993

LANGUAGE: English

                  Copyright 1989 St. Louis Post-Dispatch, Inc.


                              10 of 268 DOCUMENTS

                       St. Louis Post-Dispatch (Missouri)

                   July 30, 1989, SUNDAY, THREE STAR Edition

DISCRIMINATION CALLED RESULT OF '86 REFORM

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 9D

LENGTH: 467 words


SAN FRANCISCO - ''A clear pattern of illegal discrimination'' has resulted from
the employer sanctions provisions of the 1986 Immigration Reform and Control
Act, the U.S. Commission on Civil Rights has charged.  As many as a half-million
U.S. employers are discriminating against job seekers who are not American
citizens or whose race or language skills suggest that they may be undocumented
aliens, the commission says. The charges were leveled in a 45-page staff report
on the sanctions' effects that was made public Friday at a special commission
meeting at the University of California at San Francisco. The eight-member
commission unanimously endorsed the report in a rare display of unity.  The
report says that the federal General Accounting Office understated the
discriminatory effect of the sanctions in its annual reports to Congress in 1987
and 1988.  It also charges the GAO with failing to demonstrate that the 1986
legislation - better known as the Simpson-Mazzolli Act - has succeeded in
reducing illegal immigration.  The act made it unlawful to hire undocumented
immigrants and offered amnesty to undocumented immigrants who had been in the
United States since Jan. 1, 1982.  The commissioners urged Congress to extend
until 1991 the act's legally required evaluation period, which had been
scheduled to end with a third and final report by the General Accounting Office
later this year.  The additional two years would be used for more exhaustive
studies of the sanctions' discriminatory effects that have been alleged.  ''The
GAO's findings would suggest that the problems are not of sufficient concern to
warrant congressional action,'' said Blandina Cardenas Ramirez, one of two
appointees of President Jimmy Carter still on the commission.  ''But this report
brings to light some very serious civil-rights and human-rights violations
relating to immigration.''

LOAD-DATE: October 25, 1993

LANGUAGE: English

                  Copyright 1989 St. Louis Post-Dispatch, Inc.


                              11 of 268 DOCUMENTS

                       St. Louis Post-Dispatch (Missouri)

                  August 20, 1989, SUNDAY, THREE STAR Edition

GENE MCNARY FOR IMMIGRATION JOB

BYLINE: Stuart Symington Jr.

SECTION: EDITORIAL; Pg. 3B

LENGTH: 1307 words


President Bush has nominated Gene McNary, St. Louis County executive, as
commissioner of the Immigration and Naturalization Service. The public should
have no concern about McNary's ability to perform his duties.  Before looking at
McNary's qualifications, one needs to understand the job he is being asked to
perform. The INS is a division of the Department of Justice.  The commissioner's
responsibilities are delegated to him by the attorney general. The INS
administers federal law concerning admission, exclusion, detention, deportation
and naturalization of aliens.  The Immigration Reform and Control Act of 1986
significantly expanded the INS's responsibilities to process the legalization of
illegal aliens who have been granted amnesty, administer agricultural worker
programs, enforce sanctions against employers who hire illegal aliens and deter
further illegal immigration.  The INS employs some 18,000 people in 1,500
offices worldwide. Its 1989 budget is close to $1 billion. Most of the budget
goes toward preventing illegal entry and facilitating legal entry. In any given
year, the INS expels more than a million aliens, detains 100,000, handles over a
million applications for temporary resident status and completes almost 500,000
naturalization applications.  In addition, the service annually processes entry
of millions of tourists, students, business visitors, trainees and temporary
workers. Temporary entry into the United States requires preliminary State
Department approval, followed by inspection and examination by the INS to
determine admissibility.  As a practical matter, an alien must fall into a
preference category to be admissible for permanent residence. Preference aliens,
other than relatives of citizens or permanent residents, must either have
exceptional ability or a job that the Labor Department has found is in short
supply in the United States.  In addition to the standard preference categories,
federal law provides for entry in the United States of refugees and ''asylees.''
While the service plays a part in such proceedings, by no means does the co
mmissioner have a free hand. Rather, as might be expected for such a sensitive
subject, all three branches of government have their fingers in the pie.
Congress has authorized the president to establish annual refugee ceilings,
after consultation with the committees on the judiciary of the House and Senate.
Upon such determination by the president, the attorney general is authorized to
admit eligible refugees.  Congress has also required the attorney general to
establish a procedure to grant asylum to aliens in the United States who would
otherwise qualify as refugees. Refugee status depends upon a showing of
persecution, or a well-founded fear of persecution, on account of race,
religion, nationality, membership in a particular social group or political
opinion. In 1987, the attorney general established an Asylum Policy and Review
Unit to assist and advise him and the INS in matters relating to asylum. Denial
of refugee or asylum status is subject to administrative review and to review by
the federal courts.  Thus, any attempt by the commissioner to display
insensitivity toward the requirements of federal law would be constrained
institutionally and judicially and by the pressures of interested private and
corporate constituencies.  At the present time, the INS is overworked and
understaffed. It lacks the personnel deal with the numerous additional
responsibilities Congress has imposed on it. Accordingly, the INS clearly needs
a vigorous, capable and experienced administrator. Further, the commissioner
should enjoy the full confidence of the Bush administration and have the courage
to battle for the resources the INS needs.  Finally, both the law and common
sense require the commissioner to work with not only concerned agencies within
the executive branch, but also with Congress.  Nothing in McNary's record
suggest that he lacks the experience, ability and vigor to handle the
commissioner's job. As St. Louis County executive for more than 14 years, he
served as chief administrator over several thousand employees and what is
currently a $185 million budget. He was an excellent administrator and ran an
efficient shop.  Nobody doubts his courage to fight for what he believes in. As
county executive, he worked with a variety of constituencies. He dealt with the
structure of county government, realignment of functions, data processing and
training of personnel.  He is an experienced lawyer, on a human scale, having
served two terms as prosecuting attorney and having handled hundreds of cases as
an assistant public defender. His lifelong dedication to improved detention and
correctional facilities has prepared him to supervise the detention
responsibilities of the INS in a humane way.  As a successful elected official
serving a sophisticated constituency, McNary is well aware that politics is the
art of the possible and, one might add, the reasonable. His credentials more
than make up for his lack of parochial experience in the service he will head.
The St. Louis community should be proud that one of its citizens has been chosen
to head an important federal agency and wish him well.  Stuart Symington Jr. is
a lawyer with a Clayton firm.

LOAD-DATE: October 25, 1993

LANGUAGE: English

                  Copyright 1989 St. Louis Post-Dispatch, Inc.


                              12 of 268 DOCUMENTS

                       St. Louis Post-Dispatch (Missouri)

                 November 23, 1989, THURSDAY, FIVE STAR Edition

BORDER PATROL LOSING GROUND

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 12G

LENGTH: 1094 words


SAN DIEGO - Three years after the signing of a landmark immigration reform
lawdesigned to bring the border at San Diego under control, the nightly rush of
illegal immigrants has again begun to overwhelm the U.S. Border Patrol.
Immigration experts say they fear that the best hope to stop the flow may be
washed away by deficit red in k.  A section of the Immigration Reform and
Control Act increasing the Border Patrol by 50 percent has yet not been given
enough money for implementation.  New budget limits and an expensive effort to
detain Central American refugees in southern Texas has forced the Immigration
and Naturalization Service to declare a hiring freeze.  At the same time, after
a fairly steady decline in illegal border crossings since the law went into
effect on Nov. 6, 1986, the number of apprehended aliens - the only available
measure of illegal immigration - has begun to increase significantly. In
September, 89,290 aliens were arrested along the Mexican border, a 36 percent
increase from the previous September and part of a trend that immigration
officials say they have noticed since May.  ''We are showing the Mexican
government that we are not serious about gaining control of the border,'' said
Dan Stein, executive director of the Federation for American Immigration Reform,
which has been sharply critical of what the group calls a failure to give the
border enforcement effort enough money.  The success of the law rests on a
combination of border detentions, sanctions for employers who hire undocumented
workers, arrests of smugglers and document forgers, and several other elements,
said Duke Austin, an Immigration Service spokesman. But the budget crunch has
hurt border detentions, he said, and ''if you can't detain people, I'll tell
you, the rest won't work.'' Problems have been especially acute in the San Diego
sector of the border, historically the place where the largest number of Mexican
immigrants has attempted to cross on the way to the booming Los Angeles job
market. As the methods of alien smugglers have grown more sophisticated - with
trucks crossing unfenced sections at high speed or mobs of aliens running across
in numbers too large to catch in the wee hours of the morning - the number of
Border Patrol officers at San Diego is at a four-year low.  Michael Gregg, a
supervisory Border Patrol agent, said attrition from the long hours and the high
cost of housing in the area, exacerbated by the hiring freeze, had left the
sector with only 712 of its authorized 1,074 officers.  The big immigration
checkpoint on Interstate 5 north of San Diego has had to reduce hours of
operation severely, with only 44.6 percent of its authorized staff available for
duty.  The Border Patrol often sends its newest recruits to the San Diego sector
for a few years of the service's most demanding duty before allowing transfers
to other posts. The freeze has prevented such transfers, adding to the
frustration and incentive to quit the patrol.  Gregg said Border Patrol officers
at San Diego work ''nine to 12 hours a day on the average,'' often spending the
night chasing illegal border crossers and then, exhausted, filling out paper
work for a few more hours each morning.  But some critics say the Border
Patrol's problems are partly due to bad management. Raymond M. Momboisse, the
Immigration Service's senior attorney, charged in a recently disclosed
memorandum to senior Justice Department officials that patrol personnel were
improperly assigned and poorly used.  ''Particularly in the southern and western
regions, the patrol has been assigned to internal operations centers, weakening
its presence on the border . . . and thus its deterrent effect,'' he said.
''More than that, the patrol has undertaken operations other than its major task
of apprehending and removing aliens.'' At the beginning of the year, the Border
Patrol was moving toward what would be an all-time high of 4,600 officers. Many
recruits were being trained at special facilities at Fort McClellan, Ala. But
budget troubles forced the Immigration Service to cancel the opening in March of
a class of 400 recruits and the hiring freeze in July marked the beginning of a
steady decline in manpower.

LOAD-DATE: October 27, 1993

LANGUAGE: English

                  Copyright 1989 St. Louis Post-Dispatch, Inc.


                              13 of 268 DOCUMENTS

                       St. Louis Post-Dispatch (Missouri)

                  December 25, 1989, MONDAY, FIVE STAR Edition

LAW TO REFORM IMMIGRATION IS CALLED 'PROMISE THAT FAILED'

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 9F

LENGTH: 1214 words


WASHINGTON (AP) - Immigration reform has freed more than 3 million American
residents from the label ''illegal alien,'' but Hispanic activists say reform
has helped create a huge underclass ripe for discrimination and exploitation by
unscrupulous employers.  The Immigration Reform and Control Act of late 1986 was
supposed to allow illegal aliens to enter the mainstream of American life as
well as control the illegal immigration across the nation's southern border.
Critics say the landmark legislation has only partly succeeded in slowing the
influx of aliens and has done little to improve the lives of many already living
in the United States.  Congress and the administration, these critics say, have
turned their backs on a host of new problems.  ''The '80s was a period of great
promise that was never met, a great promise that failed,'' said Dan Stein,
executive director of the Federation for American Immigration Reform.  Hispanic
rights organizations said the legislation, which bars employers from hiring
undocumented aliens, has created an underclass of people desperate for jobs but
vulnerable to employers who pay subminimum wages and require workers to perform
hazardous tasks.  At the same time, significant numbers of employers who are
wary about sanctions for breaking the new law are discriminating against
foreign-born job applicants and those with foreign-sounding names, the activists
say.  But the reforms appear to have succeeded - at least initially - in slowing
the number of aliens crossing the Southwest border illegally.  Apprehensions of
these illegal aliens - considered the best indicator of illegal immigration -
fell from 1.6 million in the year before the bill's passage to 854,939 in fiscal
1989. Apprehensions, however, have begun creeping up again, officials say.  The
bill also has succeeded in touching the lives of 3.1 million people who were in
the country illegally before its passage, but who are now eligible to become
citizens through its amnesty provisions.  But activists say the amnesty
provisions split families, with one spouse often allowed to remain in the United
States legally and another unqualified to apply for residency. Immigration
reformers complain that Congress failed to prepare for the clamor of relatives
who surely will follow.  ''The failure to reform legal immigration (which favors
legalization of family members of new residents will mean unprecedented
political pressure to admit millions more immigrants when there's not general
public support for it,'' Stein said.  Mario Moreno, director of the Washington
office of the Mexican American Legal Defense and Educational Fund, said Congress
could have helped far more people achieve residency through more liberal amnesty
standards.  At the same time, those who don't qualify are ''outside the loop of
any sort of safety net,'' he said. ''There have been reports of people being
taken advantage of, of being exploited.'' Some have taken such hazardous jobs as
improperly managed asbestos removal or working with toxic wastes, Moreno said.
Jose Garcia De Lara, national president of the League of United Latin American
Citizens, said he has heard of illegal aliens doing hazardous construction or
agricultural work or being forced into crime.  ''They're certainly an
unprotected people,'' he said, and as long as there is political and economic
turmoil to the south of the Rio Grande, Mexicans, Central and South Americans
will continue to try to enter the country illegally. ''Congress passed the bill
and turned its back.'' De Lara said the Office of Special Counsel within the
Justice Department had done ''almost nil'' to enforce the law's
anti-discrimination provisions.  Rep. John Bryant, D-Texas, a member of the
immigration subcommittee, agreed that the administration has ''refused to take
seriously the obligation to enforce the anti-discrimination provisions in the
bill. They don't have the people to enforce it.'' But Rep. Lamar Smith of Texas,
the ranking Republican on the immigration panel, said he's seen little evidence
of discrimination.  ''There have only been a dozen or so proven cases of
discrimination because of employer sanctions and this despite the fact that a
number of organizations have spent a lot of time trying to come up with examples
of discrimination,'' Smith said.  Smith contends, however, that enforcement of
employer sanctions has fallen short.  ''Until we vigorously enforce employer
sanctions, we are not going to significantly stem the flood of illegal aliens
entering the United States, '' Smith said. ''I'm hoping we will see more
enforcement, and the imposition of more penalties, in the future.''

LOAD-DATE: October 27, 1993

LANGUAGE: English

                  Copyright 1989 St. Louis Post-Dispatch, Inc.


                              14 of 268 DOCUMENTS

                       St. Louis Post-Dispatch (Missouri)

                 February 3, 1990, SATURDAY, FIVE STAR Edition

POLICY SWITCH HELPS IMMIGRANTS' FAMILIES

BYLINE: Robert L. Koenig Post-Dispatch Washington Bureau

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 4B

LENGTH: 667 words


WASHINGTON IMMIGRATION COMMISSIONER Gene McNary moved Friday to allow thousands
of illegal aliens who are spouses or children of legal immigrants to stay in
this country.  McNary announced a new ''family fairness'' policy, reversing an
Immigration and Naturalization Service practice that had split families as a
result of a 1986 law that granted blanket amnesty to many illegal aliens.  ''To
split families simply encourages further violations of the law'' as families try
to reunite, McNary said at a news conference. He called his new policy an effort
to ''enforce the law humanely.'' The new guidelines replaced what McNary
described as the ''nebulous'' practices of his predecessor, Alan C. Nelson.
Under Nelson, some immigrants' spouses and unmarried children could be deported
if they were deemed to be ineligible for the blanket amnesty.  The new
guidelines provide that most spouses and unmarried minor children of legal
immigrants who got amnesty will be allowed to stay in this country if they lived
here on Nov. 6, 1986 - the date that the amnesty law took effect.  That law -
the Immigration Reform and Control Act - extended blanket amnesty to illegal
aliens who could prove that they had been living in the United States before
Jan. 1, 1982. Many migrant farm workers also were allowed to seek permanent
residency.  More than 3 million former illegal aliens were granted amnesty under
the 1986 law. But many of their spouses and children did not make the deadline
for blanket amnesty, because they followed the wage-earner into the United
States years later. It is those spouses and children - who formerly could have
been, and sometimes were, deported - who would benefit from McNary's new rules,
which take effect Feb. 14.  McNary said the former practice of case-by-case
reviews had not been ''uniformly enforced throughout the country,'' with some
districts more likely to seek to deport spouses and children.  Also Thursday,
McNary announced that he would travel to Brownsville, Texas, on Wednesday to
talk with immigration service officials about the flood of illegal aliens - many
of them Salvadorans - who have been crossing the Mexican-U.S. border there.
''My biggest challenge is to get control of the border,'' said McNary, the
former St. Louis County executive, who also has traveled to El Paso, Texas, San
Diego, Miami, Moscow and Rome since taking over as immigration commissioner in
the fall.

LOAD-DATE: October 14, 1993

LANGUAGE: English

                  Copyright 1990 St. Louis Post-Dispatch, Inc.


                              15 of 268 DOCUMENTS

                       St. Louis Post-Dispatch (Missouri)

                 March 25, 1990, SUNDAY, LATE FIVE STAR Edition

MCNARY OUTLINES PLAN TO CURB ILLEGAL ALIENS

BYLINE: Daniel R. Browning

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 9D

LENGTH: 1320 words


WASHINGTON - A new high-tech fingerprinting system to track foreigners who arein
the United States illegally could be ''the key to getting control of the
borders,'' says Gene McNary, the nation's new immigration chief.  He said in a
wide-ranging interview last week that the service was planning a new two-pronged
attack on illegal immigration.  ''The two things are detention and a
supersensitive, high-tech fingerprinting system,'' said McNary.  McNary was
sworn in as commissioner of the Immigration and Naturalization Service just five
months ago. He formerly was St. Louis County Executive.  When foreign nationals
- usually Mexicans on the southern border - are caught without proper
documentation, the Immigration Service currently gives them the choice of
submitting to voluntary deportation or requesting a hearing before an
immigration judge.  Most choose voluntary deportation because they are held only
a few hours while agents try - often in vain - to document their identification.
Then they are deported. The foreigners frequently try again and again to cross
the border, knowing that the odds favor eventual success.  U.S. Border Patrol
agents near Tijuana, Mexico, where up to half of all illegal immigration occurs,
have described their jobs as futile. They say they catch only a small fraction
of those who sneak across the border.  McNary said that when he visited the
Mexican border recently, some of those in custody had already been captured and
released earlier that same day.  Although the San Diego area is used for illegal
immigration by people of all origins, the vast majority are Mexicans. McNary
said Mexicans were also more likely to make repeated attempts if they are caught
and deported.  ''Mexicans cross back and forth across the border either to work
or steal, or whatever. The Mexican philosophy is they have the right to go
wherever they want in the world,'' he said.  ''It's fun and games running back
and forth, but it's expensive and it's inhumane,'' McNary said, referring to the
crimes often perpetrated against the immigrants.  Despite their brazen flouting
of immigration laws, most undocumented foreigners are not criminals in the
ordinary sense of the term, McNary said.  ''They can be deterred. It's like
sneaking into the football game,'' he said. ''If everybody does it, nobody will
buy a ticket.'' A computerized fingerprinting system like one now used by law
enforcement agencies in St. Louis could be used for identifying illegal
immigrants, McNary said. That system, coupled with a longer detention period for
first offenders, should act as a deterrent, he said.  A 30-day detention period
may be long enough ''to break the cycle,'' he said. ''We're going to move on
this as quickly as we can . . . because I think the fingerprint system and
detention is the key to getting control of the borders.'' Verne Jervis, an
Immigration Service spokesman, said the service is not required to allow
voluntary deportation. The service can hold suspects for mandatory deportation
hearings.  Illegal entry within five years after formal deportation is a felony
punishable by up to five years in prison. That crime is rarely prosecuted,
Jervis said, except when the person is wanted on more serious charges.
Nevertheless, the fingerprint system would make it easier to prove such cases.
Asked if the Immigration Service has enough space to detain first offenders,
McNary said, ''We don't have the detention space right now because we're filled
up with criminal aliens.'' Criminal aliens are those who commit crimes in the
United States and are sentenced to prison. After they serve their time, they
generally are turned over to the Immigration Service for a deportation hearing.
They are held in the detention facilities while their deportation cases are
pending.  ''We're thinking if we are able to deport right from prison, we will
free up the detention space,'' McNary said.  Last year, the service deported
12,502 criminal aliens and arrested 30,474.  Jervis said new legislation would
be needed to authorize ''summary deportations'' upon completion of a prison
term, a matter currently under study by the service.  In the meantime, the
service could hold deportation hearings in prison if it could get immigration
judges and prison authorities to go along.  Details of the high-tech
fingerprinting system, such as how much it would cost and when it could be
implemented, still need to be worked out, Jervis said.  The Regional Justice
Information Service in St. Louis uses such a system.  It was built by NEC, a
Japanese company, and cost the St. Louis and St.  Louis County police
departments $5 million.  On a separate but related matter, McNary said he did
not believe that the United States would move anytime soon toward an open-border
policy like the one planned for Europe in 1992.  ''I don't believe we can make
it an open border. . . . It would just be wide-open drug traffic,'' McNary said.
''I think you're going to see more enforcement and efforts to control our
border.'' The United States admitted 612,110 immigrants last year. ''I'm in
favor of increasing the numbers and letting more people in legally,'' McNary
said, ''but I think we ought to have a legal process in place rather than open
borders.'' SOURCE: Daniel R. Browning is on leave from the Post-Dispatch staff
on a fellowship to study Latin American affairs.

LOAD-DATE: October 14, 1993

LANGUAGE: English

GRAPHIC: Photo; PHOTO HEADSHOT of Gene McNary ... Immigration chief

                  Copyright 1990 St. Louis Post-Dispatch, Inc.


                              16 of 268 DOCUMENTS

                       St. Louis Post-Dispatch (Missouri)

                   March 25, 1990, SUNDAY, THREE STAR Edition

FINGERPRINTS PLAN TOUTED BY MCNARY

BYLINE: Daniel R. Browning

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 1A

LENGTH: 1334 words


WASHINGTON - A new high-tech fingerprinting system to track foreigners who arein
the United States illegally could be ''the key to getting control of the
borders,'' says Gene McNary, the nation's new immigration chief.  He said in a
wide-ranging interview last week that the service was planning a new two-pronged
attack on illegal immigration.  ''The two things are detention and a
supersensitive, high-tech fingerprinting system,'' said McNary.  McNary was
sworn in as commissioner of the Immigration and Naturalization Service just five
months ago. He formerly was St. Louis County Executive.  When foreign nationals
- usually Mexicans on the southern border - are caught without proper
documentation, the Immigration Service currently gives them the choice of
submitting to voluntary deportation or requesting a hearing before an
immigration judge.  Most choose voluntary deportation because they are held only
a few hours while agents try - often in vain - to document their identification.
Then they are deported. The foreigners frequently try again and again to cross
the border, knowing that the odds favor eventual success.  U.S. Border Patrol
agents near Tijuana, Mexico, where up to half of all illegal immigration occurs,
have described their jobs as futile. They say they only catch a small fraction
of those who sneak across the border.  McNary said that when he visited the
Mexican border recently, some of those in custody had already been captured and
released earlier that same day.  Although the San Diego area is used for illegal
immigration by people of all origins, the vast majority are Mexicans. McNary
said Mexicans were also more likely to make repeated attempts if they are caught
and deported.  ''Mexicans cross back and forth across the border either to work
or steal, or whatever. The Mexican philosophy is they have the right to go
wherever they want in the world,'' he said.  ''It's fun and games running back
and forth, but it's expensive and it's inhumane,'' McNary said, referring to the
crimes often perpetrated against the immigrants.  Despite their brazen flouting
of immigration laws, most undocumented foreigners are not criminals in the
ordinary sense of the term, McNary said.  ''They can be deterred. It's like
sneaking into the football game,'' he said. ''If everybody does it, nobody will
buy a ticket.'' A computerized fingerprinting system like one now used by law
enforcement agencies in St. Louis could be used for identifying illegal
immigrants, McNary said. That system, coupled with a longer detention period for
first offenders, should act as a deterrent, he said.  A 30-day detention period
may be long enough ''to break the cycle,'' he said. ''We're going to move on
this as quickly as we can . . . because I think the fingerprint system and
detention is the key to getting control of the borders.'' Verne Jervis, an
Immigration Service spokesman, said the service is not required to allow
voluntary deportation. It can hold suspects for mandatory deportation hearings.
It is a felony punishable by up to five years in prison for a foreigner to
illegally reenter the United States within five years after formal deportation.
That crime is rarely prosecuted, Jervis said, except when the person is wanted
on more serious charges.  Nevertheless, the fingerprint system would make it
easier to prove such cases.  Asked if the Immigration Service has enough space
to detain first offenders, McNary said, ''We don't have the detention space
right now because we're filled up with criminal aliens.'' Criminal aliens are
those who commit crimes in the United States and are sentenced to prison. After
they serve their time, they generally are turned over to the Immigration Service
for a deportation hearing. They are held in the detention facilities while their
deportation cases are pending.  ''We're thinking if we are able to deport right
from prison, we will free up the detention space,'' McNary said.  Last year, the
service deported 12,502 criminal aliens and arrested 30,474.  Jervis said new
legislation would be needed to authorize ''summary deportations'' upon
completion of a prison term, a matter currently under study by the service.  In
the meantime, the service could hold deportation hearings in prison if it could
get immigration judges and prison authorities to go along.  Details of the
high-tech fingerprinting system, such as how much it would cost and when it
could be implemented, still need to be worked out, Jervis said.  The Regional
Justice Information Service in St. Louis uses such a system.  It was built by
NEC, a Japanese company, and cost the St. Louis and St.  Louis County police
departments $5 million.  On a separate but related matter, McNary said he did
not believe the United States would move anytime soon toward an open-border
policy like the one planned for Europe in 1992.  ''I don't believe we can make
it an open border. . . . It would just be wide-open drug traffic,'' McNary said.
''I think you're going to see more enforcement and efforts to control our
border.'' The United States admitted 612,110 immigrants last year. ''I'm in
favor of increasing the numbers and letting more people in legally,'' McNary
said, ''but I think we ought to have a legal process'' in place rather than open
borders.'' Daniel R. Browning is on leave from the Post-Dispatch staff on a
fellowship to study Latin American affairs.

LOAD-DATE: October 14, 1993

LANGUAGE: English

                  Copyright 1990 St. Louis Post-Dispatch, Inc.


                              17 of 268 DOCUMENTS

                       St. Louis Post-Dispatch (Missouri)

                  April 21, 1990, SATURDAY, FIVE STAR Edition

MCNARY IS CHALLENGED ON ILLEGAL IMMIGRANTS

BYLINE: Charlotte Grimes Post-Dispatch Washington Bureau

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 4C

LENGTH: 600 words


WASHINGTON - Lack of detention facilities and a national emphasis on catching
illegal aliens involved in crimes keep immigration officials from responding to
every local report of an illegal alien in custody, officials told Sen.  Paul
Simon on Friday.  ''The key is detention facilities,'' said Gene McNary,
commissioner of the Immigration and Naturalization Service, under questioning
from Simon at a Senate immigration subcommittee hearing.  Other INS officials
said that the decision on whether to pick up an illegal alien for deportation
was a matter of ''local discretion.'' They said that the agency also expected
local authorities to prosecute aliens for any crimes for which they had been
arrested.  Simon, D-Ill., raised the issue of the Immigration Service's
procedure because of an incident in Collinsville, Ill., on Dec. 17, when two
people shopping for a Christmas tree were struck and killed by a stolen truck
driven by an illegal alien.  The alien had been arrested earlier on trespassing
charges, but he was released because immigration officials declined to pick him
up. Killed were Wade Brake, 14, of Collinsville, and Roland Cox, 37, of Pontoon
Beach.  Simon told McNary and other agency officials that people in the
community were ''very concerned'' about the agency's dealings with the illegal
alien in that case, Jose Ramon Orantes-Pleitez.  Orantes-Pleitez was convicted
this month in Madison County on two counts of reckless homicide and one count
related to the theft of the truck. He is expected to be sentenced next month to
two years in prison and four years on probation. Eleven days before the crash,
Orantes-Pleitez was arrested for trespassing at Scott Air Force Base; the Air
Force declined to press charges. Simon said that Orantes-Pleitez had been
arrested twice before in New York but that local law enforcement officials ''got
no cooperation'' when they asked the immigration agency to deport him. Simon has
expressed dismay over that decision by the Immigration Service.  But the
Immigration Service gets ''hundreds of thousands'' of reports of illegal aliens
and have insufficient resources to respond to all the reports, officials told
Simon.

LOAD-DATE: October 14, 1993

LANGUAGE: English

GRAPHIC: Photo; PHOTO HEADSHOT ... Paul Simon ... Questions procedures

                  Copyright 1990 St. Louis Post-Dispatch, Inc.


                              18 of 268 DOCUMENTS

                       St. Louis Post-Dispatch (Missouri)

                February 5, 1989, SUNDAY, LATE FIVE STAR Edition

DETENTION CENTERS FOR IMMIGRANTS BEING DEBATED

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 4A

LENGTH: 707 words


WASHINGTON - The federal government, in a quandary over how to handle the influx
of Central Americans seeking political asylum, is debating a range of
approaches, including detention centers, sources said Saturday.  One source said
that the idea of detention centers was at the ''conservative end of the scale.''
It drew im mediate criticism from immigrant advocates.  At the ''liberal end,''
officials within the Department of Justice are advocating a special status
called ''extended voluntary departure.'' This plan would allow the immigrants to
remain in this country until the situations in their homelands become stable.
Also, officials said, President George Bush's administration is casting about
for ways to pressure Mexican officials into helping to stem the flow of
undocumented immigrants through Mexico en route to the United States.  Referring
to the Central American immigrants, an administration official said, ''We're
looking for Mexican help to cut them off.'' But the official acknowledged that
this tack ran the risk of angering Mexicans, who might view it as intervention.
The Immigration and Naturalization Service reports that since July, 30,000
Central Americans - about half of them Nicaraguans - have poured across the
border into Texas.  What the administration will do to handle the flux ''is
still up in the air,'' said Loye Miller, director of public affairs at the
Department of Justice. ''It's a . . . tough problem.'' For the last seven
months, immigrants from Nicaragua, El Salvador, Guatemala and Honduras have fled
from their homelands in increasing numbers, joining hundreds of thousands
already here. They enter this country through Texas and seek political asylum on
the ground that they have a ''well founded fear'' of persecution in their
war-torn home countries.  The Immigration and Naturalization Service asserts
that almost all such claims from Central Americans are frivolous. In December,
the agency issued rules that made the immigrants wait at the point of entry
while their claims were processed.  ''Putting up some kind of detention centers
(in the border areas) addresses the issue of meeting their human needs,'' said
one administration official.  But the lingering criticism of a federal policy
that put Cuban and Haitian immigrants in such centers after their arrival in
1980 weighs heavily against the plan.  ''The notion of alien detention centers
on U.S. soil is disturbing, because it violates the spirit if not the letter of
the Refugee Act of 1980,'' said Wade Henderson, associate director of the
American Civil Liberties Union office in Washington.

LOAD-DATE: October 23, 1993

LANGUAGE: English

                  Copyright 1989 St. Louis Post-Dispatch, Inc.


                              19 of 268 DOCUMENTS

                       St. Louis Post-Dispatch (Missouri)

                 February 18, 1989, SATURDAY, FIVE STAR Edition

DETENTION OF REFUGEES IN TEXAS OK'D

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 9A

LENGTH: 827 words


BROWNSVILLE, Texas - A federal judge ruled Friday that the Justice Department
could resume detention of Central American refugees who have been crossing into
Texas by the thousands.  Without comment, U.S. District Judge Filemon Vela
lifted a temporary restraining order that had allowed applicants for political
asylum to travel outside the Rio Grande Valley while waiting for permission to
remain in the United States.  The ruling means the Immigration and
Naturalization Service may reimpose a travel ban on thousands of Central
Americans applying for asylum in the United States.  Immigration officials have
indicated that they will reimpose the travel ban but have yet to announce
formally a plan for housing refugees confined in the Rio Grande Valley.  A
congressman has said the immigration agency would set up a ''tent-city''
detention camp, but the agency said that was only one of several options under
consideration.  ''Now we can get on with the overall plans we have to deal with
the situation,'' Omer Sewell, immigration service district director, said
Friday.  He would not say what the plans were.  ''We think that's going to
create a multitude of problems here in the (Lower Rio Grande) Valley,'' said
Mark Schneider of Harlingen, one of the lawyers who sued the government over the
matter.  Immigration attorney Linda Yanez of Brownsville, who sued with
Schneider, appealed Vela's ruling Friday and sought an injunction pending the
appeal, but Vela denied the injunction Friday afternoon. Yanez said she would
seek an emergency stay through the 5th U.S. Circuit Court of Appeals in New
Orleans. Brownsville Mayor Ygnacio Garza said he was unhappy with the ruling.
''We still think the federal government has an obligation to help house and feed
and take care of the medical needs of the Central Americans who now in all
likelihood will begin accumulating again beginning next week,'' he said.  Vela's
ruling gave refugees in the Harlingen district until midnight Monday to submit
asylum claims to immigration officials and to get permission to proceed to their
final destinations.  The immigration service estimates that more than 100,000
Central Americans will pour into the area this year after crossing the Rio
Grande illegally near Brownsville.  More than 40,000 asylum applicants, most
bound for Miami and Los Angeles, have filed through the Harlingen Immigration
Service office since May 3.  Until mid-December, the refugees underwent
preliminary processing and then were allowed to await decisions on their claims
with family or friends in other cities.  (3* Edition continuation) Backlogs of
up to 50,000 cases in Miami and Los Angeles prompted the immigration service on
Dec. 16 to impose a travel ban on asylum applicants in southern Texas.  The
policy stranded thousands of refugees with no means of support and most found
shelter in squatter settlements or abandoned buildings. On Jan. 6 immigration
attorneys filed a class-action lawsuit challenging the government policy and
Vela signed a temporary restraining order three days later to pave the way for
an exodus of refugees.

LOAD-DATE: October 23, 1993

LANGUAGE: English

                  Copyright 1989 St. Louis Post-Dispatch, Inc.


                              20 of 268 DOCUMENTS

                       St. Louis Post-Dispatch (Missouri)

                  January 14, 1992, TUESDAY, FIVE STAR Edition

AUF WIEDERSEHEN: EX-GI'S GERMAN WIFE MUST RETURN HOME FOR VISA, U.S.  OFFICIALS;
SAY

BYLINE: Christine Bertelson Of the Post-Dispatch Staff

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 3A

LENGTH: 532 words


A Persian Gulf veteran's pregnant wife will return to Germany soon to get an
immigrant visa that will allow her to stay here with him and his family in
Maryland Heights.  Alexandra Boswell, 25, and her husband, Daniel Boswell, 21,
were detained by immigration officials at Lambert Field on Saturday night after
what apparently was a mix-up in the visa she used to re-enter the United States
from Frankfurt, Germany.  Alexandra Boswell had been in the United States last
fall under a visa waiver program that allows foreign visitors to stay for 90
days. The couple went to Germany over the Christmas holidays to visit her
family, and the 90 days expired when she and her husband were detained there.
Robert A. Cox, a University City immigration lawyer, said the Boswells would
cooperate fully with immigration officials.  Immigration officials expect
Alexandra Boswell to leave for Germany as soon as she has recovered from an ear
infection, which prevented her deportation on Sunday, according to Chester S.
Moyer, head of the Immigration and Naturalization Service in St. Louis.  Cox
said Alexandra Boswell could fly back to Germany as soon as this evening if a
doctor says she is well enough to travel. Daniel Boswell will join her there
later, Cox said.  An immigrant visa will give Alexandra Boswell the right to
live in the United States and eventually become a citizen, Moyer said.  Daniel
Boswell, a Persian Gulf veteran who spent three years in the Army, met his wife
last summer at a German-American friendship festival while he was stationed in
Germany. They were married Sept. 28 in the United States.  They plan to live
with his parents, Larry and Darlene Boswell, in the 11000 block of DeRuntz
Avenue in Maryland Heights. Daniel Boswell is a part-time student and a security
guard.  Moyer disputed the Boswells' claim that they were given ''bad
information'' by Army legal officials on the type of visa she needed.  ''I think
they saw this as an opportunity to get in here as quickly as possible,'' Moyer
said. ''It was more convenient for them to do it this way.  They had every
opportunity to get the right information.'' But Cox said getting information
from immigration officials was difficult at best.  ''They are involved in
enforcement - catching drug dealers - not in service,'' Cox said. ''Quality
immigration advice is not easily available to anyone without paying (lawyers)
for it.'' Cox also blamed Trans World Airlines employees in Frankfurt, Germany,
for not informing the Boswells when they left that country that she did not have
the proper documentation to get into the United States.  ''TWA really blew it,''
Cox said. ''The carriers are supposed to see that they have proper documentation
before they get on the plane. They didn't do their job.'' In the meantime,
Daniel Boswell has begun filling out paper work to classify his wife as the
spouse of an American citizen. That will qualify her for an immigrant visa, Cox
said. That process could take about a month, he said.  Obtaini ng an immigrant
visa from the German consular office near Alexandra Boswell's home could take as
little as a month or two, Moyer said.  Her baby is expected in July.

LOAD-DATE: October 11, 1993

LANGUAGE: English

                  Copyright 1992 St. Louis Post-Dispatch, Inc.


                              21 of 268 DOCUMENTS

                       St. Louis Post-Dispatch (Missouri)

                 February 21, 1991, THURSDAY, FIVE STAR Edition

IMMIGRANTS CAN SUE U.S. ON '86 LAW, COURT RULES

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 13A

LENGTH: 410 words


WASHINGTON - The Supreme Court ruled Wednesday that the government could be sued
over the way it is handling the 1986 immigration law.  Lower courts had
disagreed on whether such suits could be brought. The 7-2 decision Wednesday
opens the door to broad legal challenges in federal court on behalf of large
numbers of aliens - perhaps hundreds of thousands - who are still seeking legal
status under the two amnesty programs established by the 1986 law.  The court
rejected the government's argument that federal courts lacked jurisdiction even
to hear class-action suits of this type.  The government had argued that
Congress intended the 1986 law to bar judicial review of the Immigration and
Naturalization Service's procedures, permitting only appeals by individual
aliens who had been denied amnesty and were facing imminent deportation.  In a
majority opinion written by Justice John Paul Stevens, the court upheld a 1989
decision by a federal appeals panel in Atlanta on behalf of some 20,000 Haitians
who had been denied amnesty under a program intended to aid farm workers.  The
Haitians challenged various aspects of the hearings provided by the immigration
service, including the absence of Creole translators.  In his opinion Wednesday,
Stevens said the government had misinterpreted the jurisdictional limits that
Congress put on challenges to the amnesty program.  He said that while the law
barred suits by individual aliens except in the context of their own deportation
proceedings, that limitation did not apply to the more general ''pattern and
practice'' suits that challenged government policy. ''Were we to hold
otherwise,'' Stevens said, ''meaningful judicial review'' of the aliens'
''statutory and constitutional claims would be foreclosed.'' He said that had
Congress meant to impose such a drastic jurisdictional limit, ''it could easily
have used broader statutory language'' and done so explicitly.  Chief Justice
William H. Rehnquist and Justice Antonin Scalia dissented.  In other action, the
court: Ruled, 7-2, that state laws that unconstitutionally interfere with
interstate businesses also may violate a federal civil-rights law. The decision
means that an Ohio trucker may recover legal fees and other costs in his tax
dispute with Nebraska.  Ruled unanimously in a case from Baltimore that unions
must cooperate with all reasonable requests from candidates for union office to
distribute campaign literature.

LOAD-DATE: October 8, 1993

LANGUAGE: English

GRAPHIC: Photo; Photo Headshot - Justice John Paul Stevens, Author of court
opinion

                  Copyright 1991 St. Louis Post-Dispatch, Inc.


                              22 of 268 DOCUMENTS

                       St. Louis Post-Dispatch (Missouri)

                  March 19, 1991, TUESDAY, THREE STAR Edition

GRILLED ... MCNARY GETS SKEPTICISM

BYLINE: Robert L. Koenig Post-Dispatch Washington Bureau

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 1A

LENGTH: 625 words


WASHINGTON - Immigration Commissioner Gene McNary's plea for a steep budget
increase spurred hot-tempered House members to grill him Monday over
investigative reports that roast the immigration agency.  Calling McNary's $1
billion budget request ''a whopping increase,'' Rep.  Harold Rogers, R-Ky.,
complained: ''We should be getting a streamlined agency with no bugs.'' But
plenty of ''bugs'' were cited by Rogers and other members of the House
Appropriations subcommittee that oversees the budget for McNary's Immigration
and Naturalization Service. During Monday's hearing, House members sparred with
McNary over critical reports on his agency by the General Accounting Office and
other investigators.  For his part, McNary, former executive of St. Louis
County, said he was doing all he could to improve an agency that was plagued by
management problems when he took over as commissioner 16 months ago.  ''It's
like a big, dirty-faced kid. Nobody had been willing to touch it,'' McNary said
of the agency. He said ''many of the criticisms that the GAO made were accurate
and have been corrected.'' But members of the House panel weren't so sure. They
peppered McNary with pointed questions about: Duplication of responsibilities
involving the Border Patrol and other immigration agency investigators.
Congressmen questioned why about 150 Border Patrol officers were working more
than 100 miles from a U.S. border.  McNary said agency officials had submitted a
new plan ''to concentrate Border Patrol resources at the border.'' Those
officials include G.H.  Kleinknecht, former head of the St. Louis County Police
Department, who now holds the immigration agency's top law enforcement job. The
agency's ''chaotic budget process,'' which came under severe criticism from the
General Accounting Office. ''It seems to me that . . . some people should have
been fired by this time'' because of the agency's budget problems, said Rep. Jim
Kolbe, R-Ariz.  McNary and the immigration agency's comptroller responded by
outlining steps that they have taken to tighten and centralize the agency's
budget process, which they contended was being brought under control.
''Excessive overtime'' costs.  McNary said this year's projection of $12.5
million in overtime costs was a reduction from last year's. But House members
said the agency's estimates for next year showed an increase to $14 million.
Rep. Joseph D. Early, D-Maine, demanded: ''With the cutbacks in international
air traffic (due to the Persian Gulf War, why do we get an increase in overtime
costs'' for the immigration agency inspectors who interview passengers on those
flights.  McNary is asking Congress to increase his agency's budget by $121
million - an increase of nearly 14 percent - for the fiscal year that begins
Oct.  1. He argued that the money would pay for 733 new employees (up from the
current 12,221) and help ''address the severely needed law enforcement and
infrastructure requirements'' of the agency.  ''The INS is on the road to a full
and complete recovery,'' asserted McNary.  But Early and other members of the
appropriations panel appeared to be skeptical - especially in light of recent
reports that Justice Department officials have demanded changes in the service's
management.  ''I'm having a few problems,'' said Early, who compared the
immigration agency's management unfavorably to that of other agencies under his
panel's jurisdiction - including the FBI and the Bureau of Prisons.  Early
contended that McNary's efforts to ''centralize'' the agency's management by
giving its headquarters office more power appeared to run contrary to the
management trends at the FBI, prisons bureau and some other agencies under the
U.S. Justice Department.

LOAD-DATE: October 8, 1993

LANGUAGE: English

                  Copyright 1991 St. Louis Post-Dispatch, Inc.


                              23 of 268 DOCUMENTS

                       St. Louis Post-Dispatch (Missouri)

                  April 17, 1991, WEDNESDAY, FIVE STAR Edition

MANAGEMENT POLICIES OF MCNARY CRITICIZED

BYLINE: Robert L. Koenig Post-Dispatch Washington Bureau

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 1A

LENGTH: 579 words


WASHINGTON - Some of Immigration Commissioner Gene McNary's management
changeshave caused ''extremely debilitating'' confusion at the Immigration
Agency, a study commissioned by the Justice Department says.  The report
recommends the rejection of some of what it calls McNary's ''flawed'' efforts to
centralize management of the Immigration and Naturalization Service, a branch of
the Justice Department. The report was obtained Tuesday by the Post-Dispatch.
''The agency is simply too large, too complex and too geographically dispersed
to be effectively managed from Washington,'' says the study, commissioned by
Attorney General Dick Thornburgh.  The report says McNary's effort to centralize
the agency's management ''is flawed because it will not provide for adequate
direction to, or coordination of, activities in the field.'' One source on
Capitol Hill said Deputy Attorney General William P. Barr, who oversees the
Immigration Service, had asked agency officials to follow the report's main
recommendations. Barr, McNary and other top officials of the agency got an oral
briefing on the report in February, but the more detailed, written version had
not been made public.  An immigr ation official, who asked not to be identified,
said Tuesday that the Justice Department had not accepted all the report's
recommendations.  The official said McNary's plan to centralize the agency's
management had ''gone forward to the Office of Management and Budget. At least
part of the plan is still on track.'' Meanwhile, the House immigration
subcommittee plans to examine closely at two hearings McNary's management of the
agency. The hearings will be held April 24 and May 1. A source said the panel
had asked McNary, Barr and the main author of the report - Norman A. Carlson -
to testify.  Carlson is a consultant who spent 17 years as head of the Justice
Department's Bureau of Prisons. He and two other management experts interviewed
at least 35 Immigration Service and Justice Department officials between Nov. 29
and Jan. 9.  Carlson's group scrutinized McNary's decision last year to start
removing power from the agency's regional commissioners and asserting control by
Washington headquarters of the agency's budget and personnel decisions, as well
as the regional processing centers.  In his testimony last month to a House
committee, McNary said he had moved to centralize the agency's management
because of numerous criticisms that its regional management approach had led to
a chaotic system under which immigrants and U.S. citizens in various parts of
the country encountered different standards.  Duke Austin, an agency spokesman,
said Tuesday that he had not seen a copy of the Carlson report and had no
comment on it.  Also on Tuesday, McNary told the Ad Hoc Task Force on Soviet
Refugees that the agency had added staff members in Moscow to interview Soviet
Jews and others seeking refugee status.  McNary said that in the year ending in
February, the agency approved 25,500 Soviet Jews for refugee status under the
''Lautenberg standard.'' That standard, named after Sen. Frank R. Lautenberg,
D-N.J., grants refugee status to Soviet Jews who assert a credible basis for
fear of prosecution based on race, religion, political opinion or other reasons.
''Our decision to increase the interview schedule reflects this administration's
commitment to moving as many approved refugee applicants as possible out of the
Soviet Union,'' McNary said.

LOAD-DATE: October 13, 1993

LANGUAGE: English

GRAPHIC: Photo; PHOTO (COLOR) HEADSHOT...Gene McNary...Immigration commissioner
(ran in 3* edition)

                  Copyright 1991 St. Louis Post-Dispatch, Inc.


                              24 of 268 DOCUMENTS

                       St. Louis Post-Dispatch (Missouri)

                   April 22, 1991, MONDAY, FIVE STAR Edition

MCNARY WILL FACE SCRUTINY THIS WEEK

BYLINE: Robert L. Koenig Post-Dispatch Washington Bureau

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 1A

LENGTH: 973 words


WASHINGTON - When Gene McNary left his job as St. Louis County executive to take
the top job at the Immigration and Naturalization Service, he knew he was
stepping onto treacherous bureaucratic turf.  Eighteen months later, McNary is
still stuck in that agency's management morass, according to government reports.
On Wednesday, the House immigration subcommittee will try to determine whether
McNary's efforts to restructure the agency are having an effect - or miring him
deeper in the muck.  ''McNary's defense is that he stepped into a management
nightmare,'' a staff expert on Capitol Hill said. ''But he's been there more
than a year, and the INS still has the reputation as one of the worst-managed
agencies in the federal government.'' In questioning McNary and other witnesses,
members of the House panel are expected to focus on criticisms made by the
General Accounting Office - Congress' investigative arm - as well as by an
internal management study commissioned by the Justice Department.  That
management report, obtained last week by the Post-Dispatch, contends that
McNary's ''flawed'' moves to centralize the agency's power at its headquarters
in Washington have caused ''extremely debilitating'' confusion at immigration
service field offices.  The report recommends: Scaling back McNary's
centralization plan.  Replacing the ''outmoded'' immigration service accounting
system.  Shaking up the agency's management by developing more talented middle
managers.  Intensifying efforts to root out corruption.  Meanwhile, the GAO
studies found ''serious weaknesses'' in the immigration service's fiscal
management, alleging that the agency lost $464,000 in one year as a result of
''poor cash management'' and that scheduling problems allowed many of the
agency's inspectors to collect an extra $10,000 to $20,000 a year in overtime.
At a recent House hearing, McNary conceded that many of the GAO's barbs were on
target. But he blamed lax management before he took over for most of the
problems, and he claimed to be putting the agency back on the right track.
''The INS is on the road to a full and complete recovery,'' McNary boasted.  He
compared the agency with ''a big, dirty-faced kid. Nobody had been willing to
touch it.'' McNary did more than touch the agency in the months after he took
control in October 1989. According to some reports, his tactics bruised some
managers of the agency and alienated at least one top official at the Justice
Department, the organization that oversees the immigration service.  That
official, Deputy Attorney General William P. Barr, got a series of confidential
memorandums last fall from William P. Cook, then general counsel of the
immigration service, that blasted McNary as a loose cannon and a ''press-release
politician.'' Cook left the agency a few weeks later.  Meanwhile, Attorney
General Dick Thornburgh appointed a three-person team headed by Norman A.
Carlson, former head of the federal Bureau of Prisons, to study the agency and
make recommendations to try to bring it under control.  Carlson briefed Barr and
others in February on his main recommendations, and Carlson is expected to
testify at Wednesday's House hearing. Barr also was invited, but committee staff
members said he would send another official to represent the Justice Department.
According to one report, the Justice Department officials have asked McNary to
strip his chief of staff, William A. Skaggs, who also had been McNary's top aide
in St. Louis County, of much of his power. Under the new management structure,
Skaggs would continue serving as McNary's counselor but would lose most of his
direct authority over the agency's administrative functions.  Skaggs did not
return telephone calls Friday to discuss his job.  Meanwhile, the Justice
Department also has asked McNary to replace at least three other high-ranking,
career officials. But according to one source, those staff members were still
working at the agency as of last week.  Duke Austin, a spokesman for the
immigration service, declined to discuss personnel matters. But one immigration
official said last week that at least part of McNary's reorganization plan was
''still on track'' and that the Justice Department had not endorsed all of
Carlson's recommendations.  The federal Office of Management and Budget is now
considering a reorganization plan for the service, and members of the House
immigration panel want to know what changes will be made.  At a recent
appropriations hearing, McNary's plea for a 14 percent increase in his budget,
to more than $1 billion, was met with skepticism. Several House members peppered
McNary with questions about: Duplication of responsibilities involving the
Border Patrol and other immigration service investigators. Legislators
questioned why 150 Border Patrol officers were working more than 100 miles from
a U.S. border.  McNary said immigration service officials, including G.H.
Kleinknecht, the former head of the St. Louis County Police Department who now
holds the service's top law enforcement job, had submitted a new plan ''to
concentrate Border Patrol resources at the border.'' The immigration service's
''chaotic budget process,'' which came under severe criticism from the GAO. ''It
seems to me that . . . some people should have been fired by this time'' because
of the agency's budget problems, said Rep. Jim Kolbe, R-Ariz.  McNary and the
immigration service comptroller responded by outlining steps they have taken to
tighten and centralize the agency's budget process, which they contended was
coming under control.  ''Excessive overtime'' costs.  McNary said this year's
projection of $12.5 million in overtime costs represented a cut from last year.
But House members said the agency's estimates for next year showed an increase
to $14 million.

LOAD-DATE: October 13, 1993

LANGUAGE: English

GRAPHIC: Photo COLOR HEADSHOT FROM SCITEX TAPE 4/22/91 bmw; PHOTO HEADSHOT
(COLOR) of Gene McNary ... Immigration director

                  Copyright 1991 St. Louis Post-Dispatch, Inc.


                              25 of 268 DOCUMENTS

                       St. Louis Post-Dispatch (Missouri)

                  April 24, 1991, WEDNESDAY, FIVE STAR Edition

MCNARY'S IMMIGRATION ROLE MIGHT BE ALTERED, SOURCES SAY

BYLINE: Robert L. Koenig Post-Dispatch Washington Bureau

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 4C

LENGTH: 259 words


WASHINGTON - Immigration Commissioner Gene McNary would have a smaller role
inday-to-day management of his agency under a plan by the Justice Department to
reorganize the Immigration and Naturalization Service, sources said Tuesday.
The plan, which is expected to be d iscussed today at a House hearing, calls for
two executive associate commissioners - one for management and the other for
operations. Under that system, McNary would focus more of his efforts on
''policy oversight and external affairs.'' His chief of staff, William Skaggs,
would lose much of his direct authority over career immigration officials,
according to a source on Capitol Hill.  McNary is the former county executive in
St. Louis County, and Skaggs had served as his top aide. When McNary took over
the top post at the immigration agency 18 months ago, he made Skaggs his chief
of staff and increased the power of that position. Neither McNary nor Skaggs
could be reached for comment late Tuesday.  Sources said that the reorganization
of the immigration service follows many of the recommendations of a panel that
was commissioned by Attorney General Dick Thornburgh to study management
problems at the agency. That report, obtained last week by the Post-Dispatch,
found flaws in some of McNary's management moves but said many of the agency's
problems were long-standing.  McNary and the main author of that study, Norman
Carlson, are expected to testify today at a hearing by the House immigration
committee. The hearing will focus on management problems.

LOAD-DATE: October 13, 1993

LANGUAGE: English

                  Copyright 1991 St. Louis Post-Dispatch, Inc.


                              26 of 268 DOCUMENTS

                       St. Louis Post-Dispatch (Missouri)

                  April 25, 1991, THURSDAY, FIVE STAR Edition

MCNARY DEFENDS PLAN FOR AGENCY

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 8A

LENGTH: 325 words


WASHINGTON - Immigration Commissioner Gene McNary defended on Wednesday a
reorganization plan that some critics contend should be ''only a first step'' in
revamping the service's poor management.  Appearing before the House immigration
subcommittee, McNary - former St.  Louis County executive - complained that
''everyone tells us what is wrong'' with the Immigration and Naturalization
Service. ''But no one tells us exactly how to fix it.'' The House panel held the
hearing to look into management problems at the INS, problems that have been
pointed out in recent reports by a Justice Department panel and by the General
Accounting Office, the investigative arm of Congress.  McNary and Kristine M.
Marcy, a top management official at the Justice Department, described to the
subcommittee a reorganization of the INS that would add six new executives to
the agency's upper ranks to improve its management.  Under the new plan, most of
the day-to-day management of the immigration service would be handled by two
executive associate commissioners, while McNary - who would retain the top INS
position - would ''focus on policy oversight and external affairs.'' The plan -
approved by Attorney General Dick Thornburgh - also would centralize more power
in the INS headquarters. The GAO's director of federal management issues, J.
William Gadsby, said the INS reorganization plan was merely an initial step.
''This is not the end of the trail,'' he said. ''I would view it as a first
step'' to improving INS management.  Norman Carlson, author of the Justice
Department's critical report on INS management, told the subcommittee that he
disagreed with some aspects of the new plan, but ''the important thing is to do
something - and do it now.'' For his part, McNary said he had inherited a
badly-managed agency, and he had done all he could during his first 18 months to
straighten it out.  ''This agency was broke. It had to be fixed.''

LOAD-DATE: October 13, 1993

LANGUAGE: English

                  Copyright 1991 St. Louis Post-Dispatch, Inc.


                              27 of 268 DOCUMENTS

                       St. Louis Post-Dispatch (Missouri)

              April 25, 1991, THURSDAY, ILLINOIS FIVE STAR Edition

MCNARY DEFENDS HIS PLAN TO REBUILD INS

BYLINE: Robert L. Koenig Post-Dispatch Washington Bureau

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 8A

LENGTH: 424 words


WASHINGTON - Immigration Commissioner Gene McNary defended on Wednesday a
reorganization plan that some critics contend should be ''only a first step'' in
revamping the service's poor management.  Appearing before the House immigration
subcommittee, McNary - former St.  Louis County executive - complained that
''everyone tells us what is wrong'' with the Immigration and Naturalization
Service. ''But no one tells us exactly how to fix it.'' The House panel held the
hearing to look into management problems at the INS, problems that have been
pointed out in recent reports by a Justice Department panel and by the General
Accounting Office, the investigative arm of Congress.  McNary and Kristine M.
Marcy, a top management official at the Justice Department, described to the
subcommittee a reorganization of the INS that would add six new executives to
the agency's upper ranks to improve its management.  Under the new plan, most of
the day-to-day management of the immigration service would be handled by two
executive associate commissioners, while McNary - who would retain the top INS
position - would ''focus on policy oversight and external affairs.'' The plan -
approved by Attorney General Dick Thornburgh - also would centralize more power
in the INS headquarters. McNary had argued for greater power over INS regional
offices, but the panel commmissioned by the Justice Department suggested scaling
back his centralization plan.  Rep. Romano L. Mazzoli, D-Ky., chairman of the
immigration subcommittee, said the INS reorganization plan was ''a first step''
to improving the agency's management. But he peppered McNary and other witnesses
with questions about high overtime costs, financial mismanagement and other
problems.  ''Is overtime being used to upgrade the (INS pay scale?'' Mazzoli
demanded at one point. McNary denied the allegation.  The GAO's director of
federal management issues, J. William Gadsby, said the INS reorganization plan
was merely an initial step.  ''This is not the end of the trail,'' he said. ''I
would view it as a first step'' to improving INS management. ''The key question
is: Where do we go from here? What sort of people do we put in these
positions?'' Norman Carlson, author of the Justice Department's critical report
on INS management, told the subcommittee that he disagreed with some aspects of
the new plan, but ''the important thing is to do something - and do it now.''
Carlson said he did not think INS headquarters should exert too much power over
its regional offices.

LOAD-DATE: October 13, 1993

LANGUAGE: English

                  Copyright 1991 St. Louis Post-Dispatch, Inc.


                              28 of 268 DOCUMENTS

                       St. Louis Post-Dispatch (Missouri)

                  April 25, 1991, THURSDAY, FIVE STAR Edition

MCNARY FIGHTS FOR PLAN TO REBUILD HIS AGENCY

BYLINE: Robert L. Koenig Post-Dispatch Washington Bureau

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 1A

LENGTH: 424 words


WASHINGTON - Immigration Commissioner Gene McNary defended on Wednesday a
reorganization plan that some critics contend should be ''only a first step'' in
revamping the service's poor management.  Appearing before the House immigration
subcommittee, McNary - former St.  Louis County Executive - complained that
''everyone tells us what is wrong'' with the Immigration and Naturalization
Service. ''But no one tells us exactly how to fix it.'' The House panel held the
hearing to look into management problems at the INS, problems that have been
pointed out in recent reports by a Justice Department panel and by the General
Accounting Office, the investigative arm of Congress.  McNary and Kristine M.
Marcy, a top management official at the Justice Department, described to the
subcommittee a reorganization of the INS that would add six new executives to
the agency's upper ranks to improve its management.  Under the new plan, most of
the day-to-day management of the immigration service would be handled by two
executive associate commissioners, while McNary - who would retain the top INS
position - would ''focus on policy oversight and external affairs.'' The plan -
approved by Attorney General Dick Thornburgh - also would centralize more power
in the INS headquarters. McNary had argued for greater power over INS regional
offices, but the panel commmissioned by the Justice Department suggested scaling
back his centralization plan.  Rep. Romano L. Mazzoli, D-Ky., chairman of the
immigration subcommittee, said the INS reorganization plan was ''a first step''
to improving the agency's management. But he peppered McNary and other witnesses
with questions about high overtime costs, financial mismanagement and other
problems.  ''Is overtime being used to upgrade the (INS pay scale?'' Mazzoli
demanded at one point. McNary denied the allegation.  The GAO's director of
federal management issues, J. William Gadsby, said the INS reorganization plan
was merely an initial step.  ''This is not the end of the trail,'' he said. ''I
would view it as a first step'' to improving INS management. ''The key question
is: Where do we go from here? What sort of people do we put in these
positions?'' Norman Carlson, author of the Justice Department's critical report
on INS management, told the subcommittee that he disagreed with some aspects of
the new plan, but ''the important thing is to do something - and do it now.''
Carlson said he did not think INS headquarters should exert too much power over
its regional offices.

LOAD-DATE: October 13, 1993

LANGUAGE: English

                  Copyright 1991 St. Louis Post-Dispatch, Inc.


                              29 of 268 DOCUMENTS

                       St. Louis Post-Dispatch (Missouri)

                    May 2, 1991, THURSDAY, FIVE STAR Edition

AIRLINES CRITICAL OF INS POLICIES

BYLINE: Robert L. Koenig Post-Dispatch Washington Bureau

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 8A

LENGTH: 521 words


WASHINGTON - Airline officials complained Wednesday of ''unprecedented tension''
between their industry and the Immigration and Naturalization Service over
delays at passport-inspection stations at major airlines.  ''We are not
confident that the INS will take the steps needed to eliminate the needless,
costly and embarrassing delays that appear with nagging regularity at virtually
all of our international airports,'' said Richard E.  Norton, director of the
Air Transport Association.  Norton and a representative o f the Airport
Operators Council were among several witnesses who complained at a House hearing
about management problems at the immigration agency.  But some witnesses
commended Immigration Commissioner Gene McNary, the former St. Louis County
Executive, saying he had tried to improve the agency.  ''Commissioner McNary
cannot be held responsible for two decades of problems at the INS,'' said
Cecilia Munoz, an immigration specialist with the National Council of La Raza, a
group that seeks to help Hispanics in the United States.  Even so, Munoz warned
that McNary's ''already overburdened and over-extended agency may be on the
brink of collapse unless major structural and management reforms are
undertaken.'' Airline and airport executives complained of ''routine two-hour
delays'' in front of INS passport-inspection stations at major airports, with
delays of up to five hours at Los Angeles International.  Norton said those
delays were inexcusable. He said Congress had directed the INS last year to hire
enough inspectors to cut average delays to 45 minutes, and had agreed to allow
the INS to impose user fees on airlines to help pay for the inspectors. McNary
says his agency will hire more than 200 new inspectors to help speed the
inspection process at airports. But Norton complained: ''INS chose the least
effective strategy for dealing with the problem, and then failed in its
execution.'' The executive director of the American Immigration Lawyers
Association, Warren R. Leiden, told the House immigration subcommittee that he
agreed with recent reports that ''portray a very bleak picture of the inner
workings and structure'' of the INS.  But Leiden said McNary ''is making a
sincere effort to correct the agency's grave problems, many of which pre-date
his administration.'' The Justice Department and McNary, who became immigration
commissioner 18 months ago, recently announced an INS reorganization plan that
would add several new upper-level managers.  But some witnesses said Wednesday
that the new plan would not address core problems in the immigration agency.
The director of the National Association of Latino Elected and Appointed
Officials, Harry Pachon, accused the INS of ''complicating the naturalization
process by charging excessive fees to applicants for U.S. citizenship.'' Filing
forms to become a U.S. citizen now costs $160, compared to $50 when McNary took
over the agency, (3* Edition text) Pachon said.  Noting that one in 20 Americans
is not a citizen, Pachon said: ''Our nation is failing to fully incorporate
legal immigrants into our society.''

LOAD-DATE: October 13, 1993

LANGUAGE: English

GRAPHIC: Photo; Photo Headshot - (Gene) Mcnary

                  Copyright 1991 St. Louis Post-Dispatch, Inc.


                              30 of 268 DOCUMENTS

                       St. Louis Post-Dispatch (Missouri)

                    July 12, 1991, FRIDAY, FIVE STAR Edition

CARDS STILL A HIT WITH MCNARY, BUT JOSE STRIKES OUT

BYLINE: Robert L. Koenig Post-Dispatch Washington Bureau

SECTION: SPORTS; Pg. 1D

LENGTH: 321 words


WASHINGTON - Immigration Commissioner Gene McNary may still be a Cardinals
baseball fan, but a spokesman said Thursday that McNary won't be able to go to
bat for All-Star outfielder Felix Jose.  Jose, a citizen of the Dominican
Republic, wants a ''green card,'' giving him permanent U.S. residency status.
At the All-Star Game in Toronto, Jose and shortstop Ozzie Smith tried a shortcut
by asking White House officials to help Jose get his card soon.  But Duke
Austin, a spokesman for McNary, said Jose ''will have to wait in line just like
everybody else'' for a green card.  ''Just because he plays right field doesn't
give him an advantage,'' Austin said.  Jose has permission to work in this
country, Austin said, but must apply for visas every time he returns to the
Dominican Republic. To get permanent residency status, Jose and the Cardinals
must file an Immigration and Naturalization Service application and then wait
for his green card to be issued.  Austin said the waiting period for citizens of
the Dominican Republic who qualify to get a green card is about 18 months.  Jose
would be eligible to apply under the ''third preference'' category, reserved for
people of exceptional ability in some fields, he said.  Austin said McNary,
formerly the St. Louis County executive, ''is aware of Mr. Jose's problem. He
asked one of our (INS people to check with the Cardinals.'' But Austin said that
McNary ''is bound by law'' to avoid giving special preferences. ''You just can't
take someone out of the line (and move them up just because he's a good right
fielder,'' Austin said.  About 3 million people from countries around the world
are seeking permanent U.S. residency status, Austin said, and only about 27,000
people a year are issued green cards.  He said the waiting line for people from
the Dominican Republic is relatively short, compared with the 14-year wait for
people from the Philippines.

LOAD-DATE: October 14, 1993

LANGUAGE: English

GRAPHIC: Photo; PHOTO (COLOR)...Kevin Manning/Post-Dispatch Photo...Cardinals
outfielder Felix Jose, a native of the Dominican Republic who is seeking
permanent residency sta tus in the U.S., will have to wait his turn at bat with
the Immigration and Naturalization Service. (Photo appeared in 3* edition.)

                  Copyright 1991 St. Louis Post-Dispatch, Inc.


                              31 of 268 DOCUMENTS

                       St. Louis Post-Dispatch (Missouri)

                   July 20, 1991, SATURDAY, FIVE STAR Edition

CITIZENS TAKE OATH 41 FROM 25 NATIONS NATURALIZED HERE

BYLINE: Kelli M. Jordan Of the Post-Dispatch Staff

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 11A

LENGTH: 428 words


Friday marked a special day in the lives of 41 immigrants from 25 different
countries as they became U.S. citizens in a naturalization ceremony that may
soon become obsolete.  Under the Immigration and Nationality Act of 1990, a
court hearing will soon become optional for immigrants seeking citizenship.  An
amendment in the law says immigrants will have the option of completing an
administrative process to gain citizenship rather than completing a ceremonial
court hearing. Only a name change or other limited circumstances would warrant a
court hearing, said Chester Moyer, director of the Immigration and
Naturalization office in St. Louis.  ''This is the first time something like
this has ever been passed,'' said Moyer.  Chief U.S. District Judge Edward J.
Filippine, who conducted the naturalization ceremony at the Old Courthouse, said
that it was a special ceremony and that most judges enjoyed performing it.
''It's important and adds dignity in becoming a U.S. citizen,'' Filippine said.
''And I am hopeful that many immigrants will choose to continue participating in
such ceremonies.'' The ceremony becomes optional Oct. 1.  Friday's ceremony
commemorated the centennial of the U.S. Immigration and Naturalization Service.
Sen. Thomas F. Eagleton, who addressed the crowd of 200, pr aised the U.S.
Constitution and the Old Courthouse.  ''I love this building,'' he said. ''It
symbolizes justice.'' Eagleton encouraged the new citizens to uphold the
Constitution.  ''Many of you know more about the Constitution and the political
process than many of the citizens themselves,'' Eagleton said. After Eagleton's
speech, the immigrants stood proudly, renounced the citizenship of their native
countries and took the oath of allegiance for U.S.  citizenship.  Then, after
singing their new national anthem, the new citizens were awarded their
citizenship papers.  One of the new citizens, Ae Sim Kim Franks from Korea, is
nine months pregnant. She said her baby would have two things she never had,
freedom and a family.  ''My baby can grow up free and not have to face the
oppression I suffered as an orphan in Korea,'' she said. ''Even though my baby
would have been a citizen by birth it was important that I be one, too.'' Sonia
Caballero Higgs from El Salvador had to overcome many obstacles on her road to
citizenship. Caballero, who is deaf, said her life in her native country was
neither safe nor stable.  Using sign language, she said, ''Here I have a better
future for me, and I am very proud and happy to be an American citizen.''

LOAD-DATE: October 14, 1993

LANGUAGE: English

GRAPHIC: Photo; PHOTO by Renyold Ferguson/Post-Dispatch ... Ester Dao, 5,
sleeping next to her uncle, Wade Tu, while her father waits to be sworn in as a
U.S.  citizen. (NOTE: different version of photo ran in 3* edition)

                  Copyright 1991 St. Louis Post-Dispatch, Inc.


                              32 of 268 DOCUMENTS

                       St. Louis Post-Dispatch (Missouri)

                 September 27, 1991, FRIDAY, FIVE STAR Edition

UPCOMING CHANGES IN IMMIGRATION LAW BRIGHTEN MANY HOPES

BYLINE: Christine Bertelson Of the Post-Dispatch Staff

SECTION: WAR PAGE; Pg. 1B

LENGTH: 803 words


LINDA, AN ILLEGAL British immigrant working as a nanny in the St. Louis area,
has more than 200 applications for a green card ready to stuff in the mailbox at
one minute past midnight Oct. 13.  Linda is hoping to take advantage of one
aspect of a sweeping new immigration law that takes effect Oct. 1. The changes
could help thousands of would-be immigrants become permanent legal residents of
the United States.  Under another provision of the new law, hundreds of
Somalians, Ethiopians, Mexicans and other legal immigrants could be reunited
soon with spouses and children who have been waiting for years for visas to join
them here.  ''All of those people are going to be very affected by the law,''
said Annie O'Gorman, who counsels immigrants at the International Institute,
3800 Park Avenue. ''Any permanent resident who has filed for a visa for a spouse
or a child can expect a much quicker reunion.'' On Oct. 1, new regulations of
the 1990 immigration act will go into effect.  The law allows for overall
immigration of up to 700,000 people a year.  But St. Louis will get only the
splash - not the crash - of the wave of immigrants that is expected to break in
cities along the east and west coasts, immigration experts here say. St. Louis
may get 200 immigrants a year, compared with tens of thousands in New York and
Los Angeles.  Larry Carp, an immigration lawyer in Clayton, said his firm did
not know how many immigrants - legal or illegal - would be seeking a change of
status under the new law. ''These are very unusual circumstances,'' Carp said.
''We don't know what to expect.'' Part of the new law is a controversial lottery
aimed ostensibly at broadening the diversity of U.S. immigration by helping
European countries whose numbers of immigrants dropped after passage of a 1965
immigration law.  The 1965 law removed strict quotas on immigration from Asia
and Latin America and gave preference to immigrants closely related to citizens.
This reduced the number of immigrants from many European countries. Critics of
the lottery say it is weighted toward white Europeans, especially the Irish, for
whom 40 percent of the places in the lottery are reserved.  Under the lottery,
the first 40,000 applications received after midnight on Oct. 14 from people
born in 34 countries - most of them in Europe - will qualify for permanent legal
residency.  Carp said nothing in the law prevented the Immigration and
Naturalization Service from picking up and deporting an illegal immigrant who
filed for a green card in the lottery.  ''Could they? Absolutely,'' Carp said.
''Would they? As a practical matter, no,'' unless the immigrant were involved in
other illegal activities.  This is the first time in nearly a decade that work
visas will be available for all countries, Carp said. A total of 140,000 work
visas will be available.  In general, the new law will make it harder to bring
in domestic and unskilled workers, but easier to bring in executives, people
with advanced degrees and those with highly specialized skills, especially in
science and medicine, Carp said. ''It is always the balancing of 'Do we need
their talents over here? Or will U.S. workers be threatened?' '' Carp said.  One
of the most controversial new categories is the so-called investor c ategory,
which in effect allows foreigners to buy their way into the United States. An
immigrant with more than $1 million to invest who could employ 10 or more U.S.
workers qualifies for this type of visa, Carp said.  ''There were those in
Congress who felt you shouldn't be able to buy yourself into the U.S.,'' Carp
said. ''But the premise is we need the money and we need the jobs.'' Fewer than
200 immigrants a year enter the St. Louis labor market, according to Russ
Signorino at the Missouri Division of Employment Security.  The majority of
those are highly skilled workers headed for jobs in health-care research at
Washington University Medical School or Barnes Hospital, or workers with
specialized skills in electronics, chemistry or engineering that employers
cannot find in the American work force.  McDonnell Douglas Corp. spokeswoman
Barbara Anderson said the company did not expect the new law to have any
far-reaching impact on its operations.  A Monsanto Co. spokeswoman said it was
too soon to know how, or whether, the company or its employees would be
affected.  In July, nearly 87,000 people in St. Louis were looking for jobs,
Signorino said. St. Louis does not have the large industries needing unskilled
workers that attract immigrant workers on the coasts, Signorino said.  For at
least one of Carp's clients, the new law means he will be able to return from
the Philippines to work at a major corporation here. The man has been waiting
for nearly three years for a visa number to become available.

LOAD-DATE: October 14, 1993

LANGUAGE: English

                  Copyright 1991 St. Louis Post-Dispatch, Inc.


                              33 of 268 DOCUMENTS

                       St. Louis Post-Dispatch (Missouri)

                October 13, 1991, SUNDAY, LATE FIVE STAR Edition

TEEMING MILLIONAIRES COULD USE A BREAK, TOO

BYLINE: Calvin Trillin Column

SECTION: EVERYDAY MAGAZINE; Pg. 2C

LENGTH: 757 words


THOSE WHO have been worried that America's commitment to pure capitalism has
been flagging lately will be relieved to learn that the new immigration law
provides for reserving 10,000 permanent resident visas - Green Cards - every
year for people who are willing to invest at least a million dollars in a
business enterprise in the United States.  A report I saw on television featured
a former director of the Immigration and Naturalization Service whose new trade
is matching rich foreigners with fast-food chains that are looking for
franchisers. He is shown addressing a gathering of would-be immigrants about the
glories of starting a couple of burger outlets in the land of the free.  The
scene looks remarkably like one of those complimentary cocktail parties held in
wintry Eastern cities by land speculators who are trying to unload
retirement-home lots in parts of Arizona that have romantic names and no water
and sewer lines.  This sort of policy change requires some dramatic alterations
in the traditional vision of how people in other lands manage to fulfill their
dreams of a new life in America: no more scenes of the elderly grandma going to
a hiding place behind the stove and handing over the pennies she has managed to
put together over the years to make sure that the youngest in the family can
have passage to America and a fresh start.  In the new vision, a businessman in
Hong Kong or Sao Paulo or Bangkok is meeting with his financial adviser in a
lavish office on top of some huge, glistening high rise. ''On the metals deal,
you cleared a little more than a million dollars,'' the financial adviser is
saying, ''which you might want to put in that cattle-ranch scheme or you might
want to keep liquid or you might want to use to become an American.'' Why does
that scene fail to get the patriotic juices flowing? Are we trapped in the
sentimental stories we learned in grade school about tattered immigrants who
arrived with nothing but pluck and a faith in the American way?  Am I prejudiced
against this new policy because I know very well that if something like that had
been in effect earlier in the century my family might still be on the other
side, wondering whether grandma would ever save enough pennies to get anyone
farther than the next miserable village?  I'm certain that proponents of the
legislation could tell me how much sense it makes to use immigration to help the
economy. They would point out that under the new law, the million-dollar
investment is required to produce at least 10 jobs - although, judging by the
sort of business opportunities the former INS commissioner was shown flogging,
it appears that minimum wage jobs will do. If one of our abiding immigration
myths is the immigrant who comes to this country without a penny in his pocket
and manages to become a millionaire, they would argue, what's so bad about
starting with people who are millionaires?  It's probably silly of me to imagine
what would happen if some other country starts price-cutting on us. For
instance, Canada is also a desirable destination for immigrants. What if Canada,
finding itself with a similar yearning for additional fast-food outlets, starts
peddling its own green cards for an investment of $750,000? Then England or
Germany cuts that to half a million. Then our Immigration and Naturalization
Service, acting on the advice of marketing consultants, matches the half-million
minimum, cuts the number of jobs that have to be produced to five and throws in
the answers for the test that permanent residents have to take in order to
become citizens. Canada counters with an expense-paid trip to Banff and Lake
Louise.  That's silly. The United States remains the dream of just about
everyone in the world who wants to start a new life. Far from being caught in a
price war, the proponents might say , we could be in a position to up the ante
as the demand increased. If more than 10,000 people are willing to invest a
million dollars, after all, what's to keep us from making it two million
dollars?  That's the way a market economy works.  In fact, what a green card
costs an investor could serve as a measure of how well we're doing as a country.
It would be announced on the evening news: ''On Wall Street, the Dow-Jones
gained six points today to close at 3004, and the price of buying a life in
America dipped slightly to close at $3.2 million.'' Then we might want to think
about changing the poem on the base of the Statue of Liberty so that it begins
''Give me your rich. . . .''

LOAD-DATE: October 13, 1993

LANGUAGE: English

                  Copyright 1991 St. Louis Post-Dispatch, Inc.


                              34 of 268 DOCUMENTS

                       St. Louis Post-Dispatch (Missouri)

                  December 1, 1991, SUNDAY, THREE STAR Edition

LUCK OF THE DRAW 50,000 GET A CHANCE AT GAINING U.S. VISA THROUGH IMMIGRATION;
DEPARTMENT CONTEST

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 1F

LENGTH: 416 words


LOS ANGELES - Fifty thousand lucky immigrants chosen out of almost 19 million
applicants in a special lottery for legal residence status must now move fast to
secure one of the 40,000 visas being made available.  ''There is a race once
again,'' a State Department spokeswoman said Friday.  ''Whoever gets their
paperwork in and gets an interview, they're the ones who will get one.''
Established by Congress last year to ''diversify'' the flow of immigrants to
this country, the green card lottery in October was open to citizens of 34
mostly European countries who had to beat long odds to win.  Although 18.8
million entries from around the world were mailed, only 9.3 million qualified by
arriving during the weeklong application period. Just under 400,000 entries
actually were screened to fill the 50,000 slots.  As guaranteed by Congress,
20,000 slots went to Irish citizens. Poland came in second, with 12,060 entries,
followed by Japan, Great Britain, Indonesia and Argentina. Gibraltar and
Luxembourg each got one apiece.  Once notified by mail by the State Department,
winners must submit an application and obtain an interview to secure one of the
sought-after visas - 16,000 of which are designated for Irish applicants.
Although only 40,000 visas are available, the State Department decided to take
10,000 additional applications to allow for duplicate entries, dropouts and
applicants ineligible to receive visas. Only the winners will be notified,
officials said. All notifications will be mailed by the end of this month. The
lottery was one of the stranger innovations in the 1990 immigration law, which
allows overall immigration of up to 700,000 people a year. Two previous
immigration lotteries have been held, but this is the first to be written into
law on a continuing basis and the first to attract such a large response.  The
procedure is aimed at giving a boost to immigrants from 34 nations that have
been underrepresented in recent years.  All the losers in this year's lottery
will have another chance to win a visa in similar drawings to be held in 1992
and 1993 under a slightly different set of rules.  No multiple entries will be
allowed. Instead of this year's first-come, first-served selection process - a
rule that resulted in thousands of hopefuls mobbing the Virginia post office
handling the lottery - the 50,000 winners will be chosen at random after all
applications are received.  No date has been set for the 1992 lottery, officials
said.

LOAD-DATE: October 13, 1993

LANGUAGE: English

                  Copyright 1991 St. Louis Post-Dispatch, Inc.


                              35 of 268 DOCUMENTS

                       St. Louis Post-Dispatch (Missouri)

                  January 10, 1989, TUESDAY, FIVE STAR Edition

COURT ALLOWS REFUGEES TO LEAVE CAMPS

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. ?????????????????

LENGTH: 334 words


BROWNSVILLE, Texas (AP) - A federal judge issued an order Monday blocking a new
government immigration policy. Critics said the policy had forced hundreds of
homeless Central Americans in southern Texas to live in primitive camps and
condemned buildings.  U.S. District Judge Filemon Vela's temporary restraining
order restores a previous Immigration and Naturalization Service policy that
allows foreigners in southern Texas seeking political asylum to travel to other
U.S.  destinations after checking in with the INS. Hundreds of people seeking
asylum have camped out in Cameron County, Texas' southernmost county, since Dec.
16, when the immigration service adopted a policy that all but prevented them
from leaving the area while their applications for political asylum were being
processed.  ''Everybody is euphoric about the good news,'' said Vidal Sanchez,
38, of Nicaragua. Sanchez has lived for more than two weeks in a primitive camp
near Brownsville with more than 300 other Central Americans while awaiting
appointments with the immigration service.  Sanchez said he planned to leave for
Miami by Wednesday. He and other campers, many staying under tents fashioned
from tree limbs and discarded sheets of plastic, were told Sunday that they
would have to vacate the land after the property owner posted ''No Trespassing''
signs.

LOAD-DATE: October 23, 1993

LANGUAGE: English

                  Copyright 1989 St. Louis Post-Dispatch, Inc.


                              36 of 268 DOCUMENTS

                       St. Louis Post-Dispatch (Missouri)

                 January 10, 1989, TUESDAY, THREE STAR Edition

JUDGE LETS REFUGEES LEAVE TEXAS

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 9A

LENGTH: 640 words


BROWNSVILLE, Texas (AP) - A federal judge issued an order Monday blocking a new
government immigration policy that its critics said had forced hundreds of
homeless Central Americans in southern Texas to live in primitive camps and
condemned buildings.  U.S. District Judge Filemon Vela's temporary restraining
order restores a previous Immigration and Naturalization Service policy that
allows foreigners in southern Texas seeking political asylum to travel to other
U.S.  destinations after checking in with the agency.  Hundreds of people
seeking asylum have camped out in Cameron County, Texas' southernmost county,
since Dec. 16, when the immigration service adopted a policy that all but
prevented them from leaving the area while their applications for political
asylum were being processed.  ''One would have to be blind not to recognize that
we have a problem,'' Vela said in putting the agency's policy on hold.  The
temporary restraining order was sought in a lawsuit filed Friday against the
agency by lawyers on behalf of the refugees.  ''Everybody is euphoric about the
good news,'' said Vidal Sanchez, 38, of Nicaragua. Sanchez has lived for more
than two weeks in a primitive camp near Brownsville with more than 300 other
Central Americans while awaiting appointments with the immigration service.
Sanchez said he planned to leave for Miami by Wednesday. He and other campers,
many staying under tents fashioned from tree limbs and discarded sheets of
plastic, were told Sunday that they would have to vacate the land after the
property owner posted ''No Trespassing'' signs. The camp's population continued
to drop Monday as the immigrants complied with a sheriff's order to leave or
face trespassing charges. The Central Americans have been offered shelter in
several nearby churches.  The shantytown is across the street from the Catholic
Ch urch-operated Casa Oscar Romero shelter for Central Americans, which for
months has been filled to its maximum occupancy of 200, which was set by court
order.  Vela's temporary restraining order will be in effect until Thursday,
when the judge scheduled a hearing to decide whether to issue an indefinite
preliminary injunction against the agency's new procedure.  Vern Jervis, an
immigration service spokesman in Washington, said the agency would contest the
restraining order.  Jervis said the new procedure was designed to curb abuses of
the asylum process that created backlogs of thousands of cases in some cities.
More than 30,000 people seeking asylum passed through the agency's Harlingen
District at the southern tip of Texas last year.  Most applicants for asylum do
not qualify for refugee status, Jervis said, because they are in the United
States for economic, not political reasons.

LOAD-DATE: October 23, 1993

LANGUAGE: English

                  Copyright 1989 St. Louis Post-Dispatch, Inc.


                              37 of 268 DOCUMENTS

                       St. Louis Post-Dispatch (Missouri)

                 January 12, 1989, THURSDAY, THREE STAR Edition

REFUGEE AID IS SOUGHT BY BENTSEN

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 5B

LENGTH: 574 words


WASHINGTON - Sen. Lloyd Bentsen, D-Texas, has asked the Justice Department to
drop a refugee policy that has stranded thousands of Central American refugees
in southern Texas.  ''It just turns the area into a massive detention center,''
Bentsen said.  At a press conference Wednesday, Bentsen said he had told
Attorney General Richard L. Thornburgh that the refugee situation was near the
breaking point because the area was too poor to pay for medical care and housing
for thousands of Central Americans.  Thornburgh agreed to review the policy but
promised no changes.  The area is around Brownsville and is the main crossing
point from Central America into the United States. More than 60,000 people
entered there last year.  U.S. District Judge Filemon Vela issued a temporary
restraining order Monday blocking a rule put into effect last month by the
Immigration and Naturalization Service. The rule prevents immigrants who are
seeking political asylum from traveling farther into the United States while
their cases are being decided.  Vela's order was supposed to last until today,
pending a full hearing on a class-action suit against the immigration agency,
but the order was extended when the hearing was postponed to Jan. 31.  As a
result, hundreds of Central Americans have been camped outside the immigration
office every day since Monday, hoping to get the documents they need to get out
of southern Texas before the government has another chance to keep them there.
Brownsville Mayor Ygnacio Garza estimated that 5,000 aliens were in that city
alone while the order prevented their departure. The impoverished refugees are
camping out in vacant lots and abandoned buildings.  Crews used bulldozers
Tuesday near Brownsville to remove debris from a makeshift campsite where more
than 300 Central Americans began staying in improvised tents after the rule took
effect Dec. 16.  The immigrants were ordered off the property by Tuesday
afternoon. Many took refuge in churches.  City commis sioners voted Tuesday
night to demolish the condemned Amber Motel, where about 150 Central Americans
have been holed up in squalid conditions.  Bentsen said that unless federal
policy is changed, the administration should pay for housing, medical care and
other services for the refugees.

LOAD-DATE: October 23, 1993

LANGUAGE: English

GRAPHIC: Photo; PHOTO HEADSHOT of Sen. Lloyd Bentsen...''Massive detention
center''

                  Copyright 1989 St. Louis Post-Dispatch, Inc.


                              38 of 268 DOCUMENTS

                       St. Louis Post-Dispatch (Missouri)

                 February 23, 1989, THURSDAY, FIVE STAR Edition

FEWER CENTRAL AMERICANS SEEKING REFUGEE STATUS

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 13A

LENGTH: 507 words


BAYVIEW, Texas (AP) - The flood of Central Americans applying for refugee status
slowed to a trickle Wednesday, and immigration officials said their new policy
of immediately jailing those denied asylum appeared to be working.  Only 12
people arrived at the asylum-processing center at an immigration jail when it
opened Wednesday morning, compared with the hundreds who had camped overnight
since the center was moved to Bayview from Harlingen a week ago.  Fewer than 1
percent of the immigrants applying were granted refugee status, and at least 100
who were denied asylum were jailed.  Officials of the Immigration and
Naturalization Service said it was too early to report a trend. But they said
the sharp drop in applicants indicated that the plan to speed processing was
deterring frivolous applications.  ''Evidently the message is getting out,''
said Mario Ortiz, chief regional spokesman for the immigratin service.  But an
immigration attorney, Linda Yanez, said immigrants had merely gone underground.
''My guess is that most people are probably going to just take their chances and
get apprehended,'' Yanez said. She said they would then face an immigration
judge, from whom she said they would have a better chance of getting a fair
hearing.  The new procedure calls for immediate arrest and detention of
unqualified applicants, who are set for deportation and scheduled to appear
before immigration judges, where they may resubmit their asylum claims.  To win
entry, applicants must show that they are fleeing from persecution in their
nations. Of 233 applications submitted Tuesday when a new one-day adjudication
procedure began, the immigration service granted asylum to two people, said a
spokeswoman, Virginia Kice.  In all, 215 applications were rejected after State
Department and immigration service officials worked until 2 a.m. Wednesday on
their cases.  Sixteen other applicants were issued notices of ''intent to
deny,'' were released and were told to get further documentation for their
cases.

LOAD-DATE: October 23, 1993

LANGUAGE: English

                  Copyright 1989 St. Louis Post-Dispatch, Inc.


                              39 of 268 DOCUMENTS

                       St. Louis Post-Dispatch (Missouri)

                 February 23, 1989, THURSDAY, FIVE STAR Edition

STRAINED MERCY AT THE BORDER

SECTION: EDITORIAL; Pg. 2B

LENGTH: 574 words


The flood of immigrants into the United States from points south has created
headaches of mammoth proportions for everyone involved: the Immigration and
Naturalization Service, officials in towns along the Texas border trying to cope
with the influx, charities taxed beyond their limits to care for thousands of
refugees - and, not least, the desperate immigrants themselves.  But in its
latest plan to cope with the problems, the INS is throwing oil on a fire instead
of dousing dousing it with water.  Specifically, the government is going to hold
immigrants seeking political asylum at the border rather than allow them to move
freely about the country pending resolution of their claims. That means the
government will have to construct a giant holding pen - a tent city, it says -
to make certain that the thousands of immigrants affected will not leave the
area. The Border Patrol and the INS staff in southern Texas will be beefed up by
more than 500 people to ensure quick processing of asylum applications and
enforcement of the new policy.  The INS would have the public believe that the
immigrants are to blame.  ''This willful manipulation of America's generosity
must and will stop,'' Immigration Commissioner Alan Nelson said in announcing
the new policy. But who has been manipulating whom? For years, the Reagan
administration granted almost instant asylum to refugees from Nicaragua, using
their numbers as a tacit indictment of the Sandinista regime. By so doing, they
only encouraged more to come - not just from Nicaragua but from all over Central
America. Yes, the government should do something about the refugees, but it will
never do the right thing so long as it regards them as abusing Americans'
generosity. While the situation in their home countries is disturbed, the United
States should provide them temporary refuge. And, if the United States sincerely
wishes to solve the refugee problem, it should wholeheartedly support diplomatic
efforts to bring peace to Central America. Above all, it must end the sanctions
against Nicaragua that have helped cause the conditions that so many now want to
flee.

LOAD-DATE: October 23, 1993

LANGUAGE: English

                  Copyright 1989 St. Louis Post-Dispatch, Inc.


                              40 of 268 DOCUMENTS

                       St. Louis Post-Dispatch (Missouri)

                  February 24, 1989, FRIDAY, FIVE STAR Edition

FEWER SEEK ASYLUM AT MEXICAN BORDER

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 17A

LENGTH: 240 words


BAYVIEW, Texas (AP) - The number of Central Americans seeking political asylumin
the United States declined again Thursday under tough new immigration rules.
Critics of the Immigration and Naturalization Service's Rio Grande policy said
refugees would just be driven to other border crossing points or go underground.
Only 10 applicants were processed Thursday, compared with 50 Wednesday and 233
Tuesday, the day the tougher rules went in effect. Of all those applicants, only
two had been granted asylum by Thursday, and the rest were put in barracks at
the Immigration Service's Port Isabel Service Processing Center in Bayview, or
in a Red Cross Shelter in Brownsville, Texas.  They were held on $1,000 to
$4,000 bail while they await hearings before an Immigration Service
administrative judge.  The government announced Thursday that it was giving $3
million to the Red Cross to operate the Brownsville shelter.

LOAD-DATE: October 23, 1993

LANGUAGE: English

                  Copyright 1989 St. Louis Post-Dispatch, Inc.


                              41 of 268 DOCUMENTS

                       St. Louis Post-Dispatch (Missouri)

                 February 24, 1989, FRIDAY, THREE STAR Edition

SHARP DROP IN APPLICATIONS FOR ASYLUM

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 17A

LENGTH: 240 words


BAYVIEW, Texas (AP) - The number of Central Americans seeking political
asylumdeclined again Thursday under tough new immigration rules that place many
of them in detention.  Critics of the Immigration and Naturalization Service's
Rio Grande policy said refugees would just be driven to other border crossings
or go underground. Only eight applicants were processed Thursday morning,
compared with about 50 Wednesday and 233 Tuesday, the day the tougher rules went
in effect.  Of all those applicants, only two had been granted asylum by
Thursday. The rest were put in barracks at the Immigration Service's Port Isabel
Service Processing Center in Bayview or in a Red Cross Shelter in Brownsville.
They were held on bail of $1,000 to $4,000 while they await hearings before an
Immigration Service administrative judge.  The agency says many Central
Americans are coming to the United States for economic reasons, not political
ones.

LOAD-DATE: October 23, 1993

LANGUAGE: English

                  Copyright 1989 St. Louis Post-Dispatch, Inc.


                              42 of 268 DOCUMENTS

                       St. Louis Post-Dispatch (Missouri)

                   March 4, 1989, SATURDAY, FIVE STAR Edition

AGENCY DENIES IT LOST CITIZENSHIP DOCUMENTS

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 12C

LENGTH: 734 words


MIAMI (AP) - Immigration officials have criticized a Justice Department audit
claiming that 23,000 citizenship certificates had been lost from their office in
Miami. They said Friday that all but 5 percent had been accounted for.  U.S.
Immigration and Naturalization Commissioner Alan Nelson was asked about the
certificates at a Senate judiciary immigration subcommittee hearing in
Washington earlier in the day. The audit estimated that the certificates, which
are as valuable as passports, were worth up to $115 million on the black market.
About 14,000 of the documents belonged to new citizens sworn in by former Chief
Justice Warren Burger in 1986 in a widely publicized ceremony at the Orange
Bowl, Perry Rivkind said at a news conference. Rivkind is head of the agency in
Florida.  ''These are dangerous allegations that now show those who investigate
need investigation,'' Rivkind said. ''The fact is, they never were missing. All
they had to do was to look into the computer.'' All but 1,200 of the
certificates were found in one computer bank, and the rest will probably be
found after a review of a second, said Rivkind.  Rivkind said he wrote to
Washington two weeks ago about problems in the report and called for an
investigation of the auditors.  ''There were false statements made,'' he said.
''When I first saw that document, it took 60 seconds to ascertain through
computer records that those were not missing.'' The issue was raised earlier
Friday when Nelson was questioned by a Senate subcommittee about news reports on
the audit. Nelson told the panel's chairman, Sen. Edward M. Kennedy, D-Mass.,
that he had learned from the Justice Department audit that the certificates were
reported to be missing.  Nelson said he had been unaware of the finding until he
read the audit, which was ordered as part of a management review by Attorney
General Dick Thornburgh.  David Runkel, a spokesman for Thornburgh, said that
the audit ''did raise serious questions, which are being reviewed now at the
highest level s of the department.'' The report will stay closed to the public
until the agency has had an opportunity to review and comment on the findings,
Runkel said.  The Washington Post reported Friday that the audit found that:
Aliens were frequently granted citizenship without the fingerprint and
background checks required by law. The current review examined 51 cases and
found that the checks had been ignored in virtually all of them.  Backlogs of
cases have increased for no apparent reason. A backlog of 325,000 cases at the
start of the fiscal year that began Oct. 1, 1986, grew to more than 408,000 by
last Sept. 30.  Agency officials had granted waivers to prospective employees
who had pending trials for felonies, serious drug-use allegations, multiple
identities, multiple firearms violations and employment histories in which they
had been fired for incompetence and barred from federal employment.

LOAD-DATE: October 23, 1993

LANGUAGE: English

GRAPHIC: Photo; Headshot Photo - Alan Nelson, Heads immigration agency

                  Copyright 1989 St. Louis Post-Dispatch, Inc.


                              43 of 268 DOCUMENTS

                       St. Louis Post-Dispatch (Missouri)

                  March 4, 1989, SATURDAY, THREE STAR Edition

IMMIGRATION CHIEF CITES IGNORANCE OF LOST PAPERS

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 12C

LENGTH: 667 words


WASHINGTON (AP) - Immigration Commissioner Alan Nelson told a Senate
subcommittee Friday that he had first learned from a Justice Department audit
that his agency's office in Miami had lost 23,000 citizenship certificates.
Nelson said under questioning at a hearing before the Senate Judiciary
Committee's immigration subcommittee that the Justice Department's study had
focused on only a small aspect of the Immigration and Naturalization Service.
The Washington Post reported Friday that the auditors had found serious
instances of mismanagement, including the episode involving the lost citizenship
certificates.  Nelson said he had been unaware of the finding until he read the
audit, which was ordered as part of a management review by Attorney General Dick
Thornburgh.  David Runkel, a spokesman for Thornburgh, said that the audit ''did
raise serious questions, which are being reviewed now at the highest levels of
the department.'' The report will stay closed to the public until the agency has
had an opportunity to review and comment on the findings, Runkel said.  The
audit found that the immigration agency was unable to account for the
certificates more than a year after investigators found they were missing and
that the agency had taken no steps to prevent further losses, the Post said.
Officials said the certificates had a street value of $11 million to $115
million, the paper reported.  The audit also found that two years after
investigators found that at least 61,500 naturalized citizens had not
surrendered their permanent resident alien cards, the agency had taken no steps
to recover the documents. The audit covered the immigration agency's programs as
well as its accounting, management and administration.  Among the audit's
findings, the Post said: Aliens are frequently granted citizenship without the
fingerprint and background checks rwquired by law. As long ago as 1986, an audit
showed that ''in the 349 cases reviewed, 163 disclosed no evidence of the
required background investigations being conducted.'' The current review
examined 51 cases and found that the checks had been ignored in virtually all of
them.  Backlogs of cases have increased for no apparent reason. A backlog of
325,000 at the start of the fiscal year that began Oct. 1, 1986, grew to more
than 408,000 by last Sept. 30..  Agency officials have granted waivers to
prospective employees who had pending trials for felonies, serious drug-use
allegations, multiple identities, multiple firearms violations and employment hi
stories in which they had been fired for incompetence and barred from federal
employment.

LOAD-DATE: October 23, 1993

LANGUAGE: English

GRAPHIC: Photo; Headshot Photo - Alan Nelson, Immigration commissioner

                  Copyright 1989 St. Louis Post-Dispatch, Inc.


                              44 of 268 DOCUMENTS

                       St. Louis Post-Dispatch (Missouri)

                   March 13, 1989, MONDAY, FIVE STAR Edition

NIGHTMARISH LAW IS UNFAIR TO ALIENS

BYLINE: Anthony Lewis Column

SECTION: EDITORIAL; Pg. 3B

LENGTH: 734 words


WASHINGTON It could be a story by Franz Kafka. A man looks for freedom in a new
country. He is educated there, goes to work, marries. Then the authorities
declare him an enemy of the state. He asks why, but they will not say. He hires
lawyers, he goes to court, but he can never find out what he is supposed to have
done. In the end he and his wife have to leave the country.  But the story did
not happen in the grim fantasy world of Kafka, or in the reality of some
Stalinist state in our time. It happened in the United States.  The names of the
characters are Emil and Judy Suciu. He came to the United States from Romania 20
years ago as a student and went on to get master's and doctoral degrees at
Boston University.  Starting in 1972, Suciu sought permission from the
Immigration and Naturalization Service (INS) to stay in the United States after
his student status ended. He ran into one of the ideological barriers of the
McCarran-Walter Immigration Act: the ban on people who have belonged to foreign
communist parties. Suciu had indeed joined the party in Romania. He had to in
order to become a university student. But the INS allowed him to stay in the
country temporarily. In 1977 Emil and Judy were married.  In 1979 Suciu had a
deportation hearing before an immigration judge. The judge finally decided the
case in the summer of 1983. He found that Suciu's party membership had been
involuntary, so the McCarran-Walter bar did not apply. He noted there were no
blotches on Suciu's record in 14 years of living in America.  But the judge
turned down the application for permanent residence. Why? He said he had been
shown classified material that indicated Suciu might be a threat to national
security.  What was the charge? Who made it? The judge would not say. He invoked
another provision of the McCarran-Walter Act, which allows the use of secret
material in proceedings to exclude aliens from the United States.  To label
someone a threat to national security without giving him a chance to
cross-examine his accusers, or even to know what the charge is about, sounds
unconstitutional. But a closely divided Supreme Court held in 1956 that the
guarantee of due process of law does not apply to entering aliens.  Suciu was
ordered deported to Romania. That would have put his life at risk because he had
publicly condemned the tyranny of the Romanian government.  He testified in
Congress that most-favored-nation trading status should be denied to Romania
because of its human rights violations.  Judy and Emil Suciu asked Canada to
take them as refugees. In October 1985 they were admitted to Canada. Of course
it is not just Emil Suciu who has lost. All Americans lose when our country
acts, out of fear, like the tyrannies we oppose.  The United States should long
since have outgrown the fear that gave rise to the McCarran-Walter Act. Congress
should amend the law to let someone in Suciu's position have a chance of meeting
the charge. But the attorney general, Dick Thornburgh, does not have to wait for
Congress. He should establish a fair procedure to test charges that can so
deeply wound a life.

LOAD-DATE: October 23, 1993

LANGUAGE: English

                  Copyright 1989 St. Louis Post-Dispatch, Inc.


                              45 of 268 DOCUMENTS

                       St. Louis Post-Dispatch (Missouri)

                   March 17, 1989, FRIDAY, FIVE STAR Edition

PROTEST QUELLED AT BORDER REFUGEE CAMP

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 35E

LENGTH: 307 words


BROWNSVILLE, Texas - Border Patrol officers in riot gear moved in to quell a
protest on Thursday against detention at an overcrowded camp for refugees, an
Immigration and Naturalization Service spokesman said.  About 1,600 refugees,
most from Central America, tore down a fence in the camp, located in Bayview,
Texas. They shouted ''Liberty!'' in what refugee advocates said was a show of
frustration with immigration policies.  ''The conditions in there are just
awful. I know it's been a tinderbox.  People know they have rights and their
rights are being violated,'' said an immigration lawyer.  The migrants are held
in the camp until they are deported to their homelands or until their asylum
hearings have been completed.  Meanwhile, in a major but unacknowledged policy
shift, Mexico is expanding its cooperation with American efforts to deter the
flow of illegal immigrants into the United States, Mexican officials said.
Mexico has permitted U.S. immigration agents to step up their investigative
activities in Mexican territory, officials said. Mexican police have also joined
with the U.S. Border Patrol to apprehend Mexicans and Central Americans along
the American border.

LOAD-DATE: October 23, 1993

LANGUAGE: English

                  Copyright 1989 St. Louis Post-Dispatch, Inc.


                              46 of 268 DOCUMENTS

                       St. Louis Post-Dispatch (Missouri)

                   April 8, 1989, SATURDAY, FIVE STAR Edition

JUDGE PERMITS U.S. VISIT BY DUTCH AIDS VICTIM

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 11A

LENGTH: 494 words


ST. PAUL, Minn. (AP) - A federal judge overrode U.S. immigration officials on
Friday and ordered a Dutch visitor suffering from AIDS released from prison so
that he can attend a conference on the disease.  Immigration Judge Robert
Vinikoor said Hans Paul Verhoef had met standards that would allow him to be
excluded from l aws barring foreigners with dangerous and communicable diseases
from entering the country.  ''While I don't want to minimize the risk of AIDS,
the applicant has shown there is a minimal risk to the United States if he is
admitted on a temporary basis,'' Vinikoor said.  U.S. Immigration and
Naturalization Service officials immediately asked the federal Board of
Immigration Appeals, in Falls Church, Va., to stay the judge's order. But Friday
night the board refused to consider the request, said Thomas Schiltgen, the
immigration district director in St. Paul.  Verhoef boarded a flight for San
Francisco Friday evening at the Minneapolis-St. Paul International Airport. The
five-day conference in San Francisco ends Sunday.  Vinikoor ordered Verhoef to
post a $10,000 bond to enforce the terms of the waiver, which is in effect until
April 28. The money was provided by supporters of the Minnesota AIDS Project,
said Helene Haapala, one of Verhoef's lawyers.  At the hearing before Vinikoor,
Verhoef stopped short of saying he would not engage in any sexual act while in
the United States. He promised only to practice ''safe sex.'' ''I'm prepared to
say under oath that I will abstain from risky behavior,'' Verhoef said under
questioning from Richard Soli, district counsel for the immigration agency. AIDS
(acquired immune deficiency syndrome) is caused by a virus that damages the
body's immune system, leaving victims susceptible to infection and cancer.  It
is spread most often by sexual contact, from pregnant women to their unborn
children, and through blood, as on contaminated needles used by drug abusers.

LOAD-DATE: October 22, 1993

LANGUAGE: English

                  Copyright 1989 St. Louis Post-Dispatch, Inc.


                              47 of 268 DOCUMENTS

                       St. Louis Post-Dispatch (Missouri)

                   April 21, 1989, FRIDAY, FIVE STAR Edition

MEXICO DEPORTS MURDER SUSPECT

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 22A

LENGTH: 1094 words


MEXICO CITY - A Mexican-born winery worker suspected of killing seven people in
California, including his wife and two daughters, was deported to the United
States Thursday, the Mexican attorney general's office said.  The suspect, Ramon
Salcido, was being returned to the United States at his own request, U.S.
Attorney Joseph Russoniello said in San Francisco.  Salcido left Mexico City
aboard the private plane of cartoonist Charles Schulz of Santa Rosa, Calif., who
had supplied the jet to authorities in Sonoma County, Calif. Schulz is the
creator of the ''Peanuts'' comi c strip.  Salcido had been arrested in
northwestern Mexico on Wednesday. He was handed over to U.S. authorities after a
brief stopover in Mexico City.  Salcido ''was put at the disposition of
immigration officials and expelled from the country in line with the law,'' the
Mexican attorney general's office said.  Although the Mexican-born Salcido, 28,
apparently is a citizen of Mexico, a spokesman for the attorney general's office
said he was being deported for illegal entry into the country.  ''He is a
resident of the United States, and he entered Mexico illegally,'' said the
spokesman, Fernando Arias.  The U.S. Immigration and Naturalization Service said
Salcido had not filed naturalization papers and was a Mexican citizen, but
Mexican authorities said Salcido claimed to be a U.S. citizen.  ''The United
States has asked for him, and we understand that he has lived there for the last
nine years . . . If I am a U.S. resident, I renounce my rights as a Mexican
citizen and my obligation is to live under the laws of the United States,''
Arias said. Foreign Ministry sources disagreed, saying that it was impossible
for a Mexican citizen to enter his own country illegally and that Mexican
residents of the United States do not give up their rights in Mexico.  Some
Foreign Ministry officials argued that Salcido should be tried for the homicides
in Mexico, which has no death penalty.  ''I don't see how the Mexican government
can hand over a Mexican citizen to be killed, no matter how much of a criminal
he is,'' said one source.  Gene Tunney, the district attorney in Sonoma County,
where the killings took place, has said he would seek the death penalty for
Salcido. So far, Salcido faces four murder charges there for the deaths of his
wife, Angela, 24; daughters Sofia, 4, and Teresa, 1; and his boss at Grand Cru
Vineyards, Tracey Toovey, 35. He faces two other charges of attempted murder for
attacks on his daughter Carmina, 3, and another co-worker, Kenneth Butti, 33.
Authorities said Salcido would be charged also with the killing of his
mother-in-law, Marian Louise Richards, 42, and Angela's two sisters, Ruth, 12,
and Maria, 8.  Salcido fled to Mexico after the killings last Friday and was
arrested Tuesday night in Sinaloa state, near his grandmother's home in the town
of Guasave.  In police custody, he confessed to the killings on Mexican
television: ''I'm guilty. I killed them in the United States, and I expect to be
tried there.'' In the brief interview, parts of which aired on U.S. television
stations, Salcido said that he had returned to Mexico to see his parents one
last time.  Authorities attributed his rampage to jealousy, saying that Salcido
believed that his wife was cheating on him with Toovey. A few days before the
killings, Salcido's wife was told that her husband had a previous wife and child
in Fresno, Calif., and told friends she planned to seek an annulment of her
4-year-old marriage.  On Thursday, federal judicial police accompanied Salcido
from Mazatlan, a port on the Gulf of California, aboard a Mexicana Airlines
flight to Mexico City, where Sonoma County sheriff's deputies waited to take him
back to the United States.  Chewing gum and seemingly calm, Salcido said ''no,
not really,'' when a television reporter asked him on the flight if he felt
remorse for the crimes to which he has confessed.  Russoniello said he was aware
of no assurances given to Salcido that he would not face the death penalty. Some
officials had speculated that Mexico would put up an extradition fight because
that country has no death penalty.  But Peter Keane, a professor of criminal
procedure at Hastings School of Law in San Francisco, said Mexican officials
might have thought the charges ''so reprehensible'' that they had very little
sympathy for Salcido.  The U.S.-Mexico extradition treaty is a ''mutual-type
agreement between the two countries, but we have no enforcement power over it,''
Keane said.

LOAD-DATE: October 22, 1993

LANGUAGE: English

                  Copyright 1989 St. Louis Post-Dispatch, Inc.


                              48 of 268 DOCUMENTS

                       St. Louis Post-Dispatch (Missouri)

                  April 29, 1989, SATURDAY, FIVE STAR Edition

RUN OFF FRIENDS OF IRISH RUNNER PROTEST BAR ON HIS RE-ENTRY

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 3A

LENGTH: 600 words


Friends of a world-class runner barred by immigration officials in St. Louis say
a delay in his return from Ireland is stalling wedding plans and Olympic hopes.
The athlete, Paul Donovan, 25, was returning from Ireland on March 10 when
officials with the U.S. Immigration and Naturalization Service barred his
re-entry. He was traveling back to the University of Arkansas in Fayetteville to
continue Olympic training when detained at Lambert Field.  Chester Moyer, who
heads the immigration office in St. Louis, said Donovan was not allowed to
re-enter the country because his visa was for a tourist and agents determined he
was illegally working under a contract with Reebok Shoes.  A special permit is
required for an alien to work while in the United States.  John McDonnell, track
coach at the University of Arkansas, said Donovan received support in exchange
for wearing Reebok products as he trains for the 1992 Olympics. An injury kept
him from trying out for the Games last summer.  ''He has been coming and going
on a tourist visa for two years, and he never had any problems until he went
through St. Louis,'' said McDonnell, a naturalized American from Ireland. ''This
is the first time he went through St. Louis. . . . It'll probably be his last.''
Moyer defended the action. ''He may have never been asked the right questions''
in previous trips, Moyer said.  Friends have enlisted the help of Arkansas
politicians and U.S. Sen. David Pryor, D-Ark., to get a new visa for Donovan.
Lisa Hunt, his American-born fiancee, said plans for a summer wedding had been
postponed because of the incident. When the couple is married ''depends on when
he gets back,'' she said.  Donovan had been using six-month tourist visas to
remain in this country to train at the university after a five-year student visa
expired. He won the silver medal in the 3,000 meters at the World Indoor
Athletic Championships in Indianapolis in 1987 and was an all-American in track
and cross country as an undergraduate at Arkansas.  Donovan has not worked in
the United States since enrolling in the fall of 1981 as a freshman at Arkansas,
McDonnell said.  ''I can say that Paul has not worked a day in his life in the
United States,'' McDonnell said with a laugh.

LOAD-DATE: October 22, 1993

LANGUAGE: English

                  Copyright 1989 St. Louis Post-Dispatch, Inc.


                              49 of 268 DOCUMENTS

                       St. Louis Post-Dispatch (Missouri)

                    May 2, 1989, TUESDAY, FIVE STAR Edition

MCNARY CALLED CLOSE TO IMMIGRATION SERVICE JOB

BYLINE: Robert L. Koenig and Virgil Tipton Of the Post-Dispatch Staff

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 1A

LENGTH: 1507 words


St. Louis County Executive Gene McNary has told Republican officials that he
plans to accept a job as the nation's top immigration official if it is formally
offered to him, sources said Monday.  Both McNary's office and a source at the
U.S. Department of Justice confirmed Monday that McNary was under serious
consideration to be named commissioner of the U.S. Immigration and
Naturalization Service. McNary met late last week in Washington with Attorney
General Richard L. Thornburgh, said Pam Grant, McNary's spokeswoman.  A source
in Washington said he was told recently by an official of the administration of
President George Bush that McNary would be offered the job.  ''I'm told that
he'll get it,'' the source said, as long as the standard FBI check into McNary's
background turns up no problems. ''I think it's a done deal.'' David Runkel, an
assistant to Thornburgh, said Monday that the Justice Department ''has not yet
made a formal recommendation to the president'' for the job with the immigration
service. The service is an agency under the Justice Department.  Runkel said,
''We hope to make that recommendation in the near future.'' He declined to say
whether McNary had been given any assurances that he would be offered the post.
The White House personnel office declines as a matter of policy to discuss
nominations until they are made formal.  McNary met behind closed doors Monday
with the four Republican members of the St. Louis County Council. Some of the
council members said after the meeting that McNary had told them he was being
considered for the job and would accept it if it were offered to him.  ''He
indicated that yes, he's interested,'' said Councilman H.C. Milford of Webster
Groves, R-5th District. ''. . . I think he's waiting for (the administration to
make the announcement.'' Grant said McNary was ''one of several excellent
candidates being considered'' for the post.  The statement is the first
confirmation from his office that McNary is in the running for a federal job.
Grant said McNary met with Thornburgh on a trip he made to Washington to
accompany his wife, Susan McNary. She was in Washington with Leadership St.
Louis, a program on government that involves area residents.  Grant did not say
whether McNary would accept the position if it were formally offered. ''He's
always said that if he were offered a position where he could make a difference,
he would accept it,'' she said.  The administration may make a decision ''in the
next several days,'' she said. ''An announcement would have to come from the
White House.'' Grant said she did not know the names of the other contenders nor
how many there were.  McNary declined to be interviewed Monday.  A spokesman for
the immigration service in Washington said Monday that the current commissioner,
Alan C. Nelson, ''has not announced any plans to leave.  He has not yet been
notified that he is going to be replaced.'' But the spokesman said that Nelson
was among the presidential appointees asked to turn in their resignations in the
final week of the administration of President Ronald Reagan. Bush has the option
of accepting any of those resignation with little advance notice.  If McNary's
name is submitted by the Justice Department for the INS post, the White House
would then have to make the formal nomination. The nomination would be subject
to confirmation by the U.S. Senate, according to the immigration service
spokesman.  The commissioner is the highest-ranking post in the immigration
service, with a salary of $80,700 a year. The agency has about 14,000 employees,
most of them in the southwestern United States. The immigration service is an
agency of the Justice Department, under the supervision of the attorney general.
The service has jurisdiction in enforcing U.S. laws on immigration and
naturalization, including running the federal border patrol and processing
applications for U.S. citizenship and residency.  McNary, a former county
prosecuting attorney, makes $75,000 a year as county executive. He has held the
post since 1975.  The time needed for the FBI background check and the Senate
confirmation process may mean that McNary won't leave his county office for
several weeks if he is offered the job, said Councilman Carl W. Breihan of south
St.  Louis County, R-6th District.  If McNary leaves, that would heat up
maneuvering among those who want to be his successor, Milford said. Should
McNary leave, Milford is considered likely to be chosen by the council to fill
out his term, which expires in November 1990.  Democratic members of the County
Council, who were not invited to meet with McNary on Monday, welcomed the news
of the potential job offer, saying they would be glad to see McNary go.  McNary
apparently has been seeking a federal job and has neglected his county position,
said Councilman John R. Shear of Ferguson, D-1st District.  ''As he has been so
involved in doing that, the county has suffered by his inactive leadership,''
Shear said. He said he wished that administration officials ''would make a
decision so we can get on working in St. Louis County.'' Councilman Donald L.
Bond of Florissant, D-4th District, said McNary seemed to have lost interest in
being county executive. If he is offered and accepts a federal post, ''I think
that it would probably be a good thing'' for the county, Bond said.  If McNary
gets and accepts the immigration service position, it would end a widespread
search for a job for McNary in Washington. In January, McNary said he would
consider taking a job with Bush's administration if he believed the post would
be influential enough that McNary could ''make a difference.'' McNary was
unsuccessful in his effort to get a job in the U.S. Department of
Transportation, sources said. Later, he was said to have been sounded out about
potential assistant-secretary-level posts in the Labor Department and the
Department of Veterans Affairs. Sources said McNary had been uninterested in
either of those positions.

LOAD-DATE: October 22, 1993

LANGUAGE: English

GRAPHIC: Photo; PHOTO Headshot of Gene McNary...Would take job, sources say.

                  Copyright 1989 St. Louis Post-Dispatch, Inc.


                              50 of 268 DOCUMENTS

                       St. Louis Post-Dispatch (Missouri)

                    May 4, 1989, THURSDAY, FIVE STAR Edition

IMMIGRANT WINS - LOTTERY AND THEN ASYLUM

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 2A

LENGTH: 427 words


MIAMI (AP) - A Nicaraguan immigrant who won a $5.3 million lottery jackpot
gotmore good news on Wednesday as immigration officials reversed themselves and
granted his application for political asylum.  Justo Ricardo Somarriba, along
with his wife and three children, had faced the prospect of having to take the
money back to Nicaragua if the U.S.  Immigration and Naturalization Service
backed the State Department's finding that his claim of political asylum was
frivolous. But district immigration director Perry Rivkind said he personally
had reviewed the case and granted the asylum.  ''This has nothing to do with the
jackpot,'' Rivkind said. ''He was a teacher in the government education
department, and he resisted propagandizing on behalf of the Sandinista Marxist
government.'' That could subject him to political persecution if he returned to
his homeland, Rivkind said.  Even if he hadn't been granted asylum, state
lottery officials said he still would have received his half of last week's
Lotto jackpot of $10.6 million.  ''Anybody who wins keeps the money,'' said Ed
George, a lottery spokesman in Tallahassee, Fla. In California, an illegal
Mexican immigrant was deported - with his money - after winning the lottery in
that state.  Somarriba, 30, got the first of 20 annual checks for about $264,000
at a ceremony Monday in Tallahassee.  Somarriba entered the United States by
crossing the Rio Grande near Brownsville, Texas, on March 22, 1987, said Richard
Smith, Rivkind's deputy.  He filed his application for asylum on May 6, 1987.
Somarriba lives in Miami with his wife, Maria Elena, and three children, 9, 7
and 3 years old.

LOAD-DATE: October 22, 1993

LANGUAGE: English

GRAPHIC: Photo; Headshot Photo - Justo Ricardo Somarriba

                  Copyright 1989 St. Louis Post-Dispatch, Inc.


                              51 of 268 DOCUMENTS

                       St. Louis Post-Dispatch (Missouri)

                   May 10, 1989, WEDNESDAY, FIVE STAR Edition

SOVIET FILES FOR ASYLUM

SECTION: SPORTS; Pg. 8D

LENGTH: 454 words


BUFFALO, N.Y. (AP) - Alexander Mogilny, who defected from the Soviet Union last
week to play for the National Hockey League's Buffalo Sabres, filed Tuesday for
political asylum in the United States.  Sabres general manager Gerry Meehan said
Mogilny had spent about an hour and a half with officials of the U.S.
Immigration and Naturalization Service here and filed the appropriate forms.
Mogilny, 20, left the Soviet hockey team last week after it won the World
Championship in Stockholm, Sweden.  Mogilny, who is also a junior lieutenant in
the Soviet army, has been granted a temporary 60-day permit to live in the
United States while immigration officials decide on his asylum application,
according to Meehan, who added he was ''confident that we'll receive final
approval.'' Meehan also said Mogilny ''has received authorization to be employed
in the United States'' pending government action on his asylum petition.  The
local district director of the immigration service, Benedict Ferro, eventually
will decide on the application, Meehan said (THE FOLLOWING TEXT RAN IN THE 3*
EDITION ONLY) although ''it does go through certain State Department channels as
well.'' Applicants for political asylum have to show that there is ''a
possibility of persecution upon return to his home country,'' according to
Meehan, who was a lawyer specializing in immigration law after his playing days
and before he was named general manager three years ago.  ''If it can be shown
that that persecution would result from the action he's taken or prior
conditions, then normally an asylum petition can be granted,'' he added.  That
might not be too difficult to show since reports from Moscow indicate the Soviet
Union has already charged Mogilny with deserting the army.

LOAD-DATE: October 22, 1993

LANGUAGE: English

                  Copyright 1989 St. Louis Post-Dispatch, Inc.


                              52 of 268 DOCUMENTS

                       St. Louis Post-Dispatch (Missouri)

                    May 16, 1989, TUESDAY, FIVE STAR Edition

VIDEOTAPE OF PARTY EMBARRASSES AGENCY

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 8A

LENGTH: 400 words


HONOLULU (AP) - A high-ranking U.S immigration official embraced Ferdinand E.
Marcos, danced with his wife, Imelda, and led a prayer for a ''miracle'' to
permit the Marcoses to return to the Philippines, a videotape of a party shows.
The prayer appears to run contrary to U.S. and Philippine policy that the
Marcoses not be allowed to return. The prayer came at the end of a three-hour
party Aug. 3 at the Marcos estate in Honolulu, The Honolulu Advertiser reported
Sunday.  The videotape showed Immigration and Naturalization Service officials
from several Western states being wined, dined and entertained by Hawaiian and
Filipino dancers and singers.  At the peak of festivities, Imelda Marcos pulled
Harold Ezell, the Western regional commissioner for the Immigration Service, to
his feet and danced with him. Later, Ezell embraced Marcos in front of the
assembled crowd and called on Immigration Service officials present to join him
in praying for a ''miracle'' that would allow Marcos to return to the
Philippines, the videotape shows.  (3* Edition text) Ezell's subordinate,
district immigration director William Craig, told the Honolulu newspaper that
the party turned out to be a ''magnificent blunder'' for the agency, which he
soon regretted and which caused him to consider resigning.  But an internal
Immigration Service investigation of the party concluded that there was no
wrongdoing and resulted in no disciplinary action or reprimands, Craig said.

LOAD-DATE: October 22, 1993

LANGUAGE: English

                  Copyright 1989 St. Louis Post-Dispatch, Inc.


                              53 of 268 DOCUMENTS

                       St. Louis Post-Dispatch (Missouri)

                   May 17, 1989, WEDNESDAY, FIVE STAR Edition

INS RELENTS; CUBAN FAMILY RETURNS TO U.S.

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 16D

LENGTH: 400 words


BUFFALO, N.Y. (AP) - A family of Cubans who had been denied re-entry to this
nation since a Christmastime trip to Canada returned to the United States on
Tuesday, hoping to rebuild their life in Florida.  ''I feel like I have been
born again,'' Carlos Fajardo said after clearing Customs in Buffalo. ''I have no
bitterness. I am thankful for the people who helped us and looking forward to
returning home.'' Fajardo's wife, Bermaida, leaped out of their car after
passing through a border checkpoint. She shouted and embraced her children and a
friend.  Members of the family got word Monday that U.S. immigration officials
had granted them political asylum.  The move ends a bureaucratic nightmare that
began last Christmas when the family crossed into Canada to get a better view of
Niagara Falls. When they tried to cross back in to the United States, they were
denied entry.  Fajardo, his wife and her two children, Yoradlys and Yoandys,
were on a vacation and had traveled north to see snow. They crossed the Rainbow
Bridge into Ontario on Dec. 23 to get a better view of the falls. They were
denied re-entry because they lacked proof of citizenship.  Later, immigration
officials determined that the family had a history of immigration fraud.
Benedict Ferro, district director of the Immigration and Naturalization Service,
was adamant about keeping the family out, saying that to let them in would be an
affront to millions of people waiting to enter lawfully.  After an application
for asylum and subsequent investigation, Ferro said he could overlook the
history of fraud because the family members had a legitimate fear of being
persecuted if they returned to Cuba.

LOAD-DATE: October 22, 1993

LANGUAGE: English

GRAPHIC: Photo; PHOTO by AP...Members of the Fajardo family celebrating after
their return to the United States Tuesday. From the left are Yoandys, Carlos,
Bermaida, an unidentified friend, and Yoradlys...

                  Copyright 1989 St. Louis Post-Dispatch, Inc.


                              54 of 268 DOCUMENTS

                       St. Louis Post-Dispatch (Missouri)

                   May 18, 1989, THURSDAY, FIVE STAR Edition

SWEETHEART KEPT APART BY PASSPORT CHARGES

BYLINE: Louis J. Rose Of the Post-Dispatch Staff

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. ?????????????????

LENGTH: 1000 words


Berry L. Pierce, a soldier assigned to Fort Hood, Texas, had hoped to marry his
West German girlfriend here Wednesday. But his march down the aisle was
indefinitely postponed after his fiancee was arrested last week on charges of
entering this country on a fake passport.  His fiancee, Petra K. Padel, 29, was
locked in a holdover cell at Jennings Police Station, where she had been held
since her arrest Friday afternoon at Lambert Field after a flight here from
Frankfurt, West Germany.  ''This is like a never-ending nightmare,'' she said,
fighting back tears.  ''Sometimes I think I am just dreaming and this is not for
real. I am scared.'' Said Pierce: ''I feel pathetically insignificant - like an
ant in a giant world.'' Immigration officials said Wednesday that Pierce would
not be allowed to visit his fiancee and that she would remain in jail in
Jennings without bond pending an appearance before an administrative judge.
''We are viewing this as a passport fraud case,'' said Andre Nutis, assistant
officer in charge of the Immigration and Naturalization Service office in St.
Louis. ''She was trying to sneak into the United States by using fraud.'' Nutis
said a laboratory examination verified that a visa page allowing entry to this
country had been taken from someone else's passport and put in her passport.  He
said that immigration officials had sought to have criminal charges filed
against her but that the U.S. attorney's office here refused to do so, at least
temporarily. Nutis said his agency was making a background check on her with
Interpol, an international police agency.  Pierce, 23, said he and Padel had
become engaged while Pierce was stationed at an Army engineering installation at
Hanau, West Germany. He said they had done everything in their power to get a
visa to come to the United States to get married. They said they had visited the
American consulate in Frankfurt six times and had repeatedly filled out
applications.  He said that Padel had been told to return to the consulate on
the morning of March 23 - the day he was scheduled to leave for the United
States - and that she would get her visa stamped.  ''She went back to have it
stamped, and they said, 'No.' It broke her heart. She was crying, and I sobbed
myself.'' When her request for a visa failed, they tried to get married in West
Germany. He flew back there several weeks later to get a marriage license there.
Again, they failed.  ''We tried everything over there . . . but there wasn't
enough time,'' Padel said.  She was not allowed to see her fiance Wednesday,
although he was waiting with the Rev. Roger Johnson, pastor of the nearby
Fairview Baptist Church, in hopes of marrying her at the station.  Jennings
Police Chie f Harry G. Slaten said that he might not have any objection to
allowing a marriage ceremony but that Padel was being held at the police station
as a federal prisoner for the Immigration and Naturalization Service.  ''I don't
have the authority to allow any one to see a federal prisoner,'' Slaten said.
''That's up to the immigration authorities.'' He said Jennings kept some federal
prisoners at the police holdover under contract with the immigration service.
Padel said she and Pierce at first had hoped to marry last month in his
hometown, Riverside, Calif., on his birthday. She added that she was eager to
see Michael, her 9-year-old son from a previous marriage. The boy is in
California with his father. She said she has not seen her son in five years.
The administrative immigration judge will decide whether she will be allowed to
remain in this country. Nutis didn't say when the hearing would be.  Nutis said
about four or five arrests were made annually in St. Louis based on falsified
passports.

LOAD-DATE: October 22, 1993

LANGUAGE: English

GRAPHIC: Photo; PHOTO (COLOR) by Karen Elshout Whiteley/Post-Dispatch...Extended
Engagement...Berry L. Pierce, a U.S. soldier stationed at Fort Hood, Texas,
waiting at the Jennings police station while trying to obtain release of his
fiancee, Petra K. Padel. PHOTO HEADSHOT (COLOR) of (Petra K.) Padel

                  Copyright 1989 St. Louis Post-Dispatch, Inc.


                              55 of 268 DOCUMENTS

                       St. Louis Post-Dispatch (Missouri)

                    May 19, 1989, FRIDAY, FIVE STAR Edition

'I WILL WAIT,' SAYS FIANCEE IN VISA FLAP

BYLINE: Bill Smith Of the Post-Dispatch Staff

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 1A

LENGTH: 1120 words


A woman from West Germany who admits she faked a U.S. visa because she was
''desperately in love'' with a young American soldier probably will be forced to
return home without being allowed to marry him.  ''It was a case of my heart
over my mind; my feelings were stronger than reason,'' said Petra K. Padel, 29,
explaining Thursday why she attempted to enter the United States with a
falsified visitor's visa.  ''I will wait for him forever,'' she said. ''If I
know that he is coming back to me, I don't mind waiting.'' Padel was arrested
last Friday night at Lambert Field en route from Frankfurt, West Germany, to
Houston. She and Berry L. Pierce, 23, of Riverside, Calif., a soldier assigned
to Fort Hood, Texas, were planning to be married this week.  Andre J. Nutis,
assistant officer in charge of the St. Louis office of the Immigration and
Naturalization Service said Thursday that an ''exclusion hearing'' would be held
either today or Monday to determine whether she should be returned to her home
country.  Both Nutis and Padel's attorney, Peter Ferrara, said an immigration
judge almost certainly would bar Padel from entering the United States.  Nutis
also said the couple would not be allowed to marry while she was here.  ''We're
in the immigration business, not in the marrying business,'' Nutis said.  Nutis
also said that immigration officials would bar Pierce from visiting Padel before
she is returned. ''We have a longstanding policy that only close relatives can
see each other,'' he said. But Ferrara said, ''Ther e's nothing in the
regulations saying they can't see each other; there's nothing in the regulations
saying they can't be married.'' Pierce, on leave from Fort Hood, spent most of
the day Thursday sitting in the waiting room of the Immigration Service offices
here awaiting word on Padel's plight.  When he learned that she probably would
be returned to West Germany this weekend or early next week, he said, ''I've
served my country for almost four years and what do they do for me? It makes me
not even to want to live here anymore.'' He said he would talk to his commanders
once he returns to Fort Hood and attempt to get a transfer back to West Germany,
where he previously was stationed and where he met Padel.  He said he believed
that if the two somehow could be married in St. Louis before she was returned,
the army would look more favorably on his request to return to Germany.
Immigration officials say that once Padel is returned to West Germany, she will
not be allowed to reapply for a visa for at least a year. Even then, the visa
might not be approved.  ''I can't wait a year,'' Pierce said. He said there is a
chance that Padel may be pregnant and ''I want to be with her when my child is
born.'' Pierce and Padel said that the two initially planned to be married on
April 22 in Texas, but Padel had difficulty getting a visitor's visa. One of the
reasons for the difficulty, her attorney said, was because the U.S.  consulate
in Frankfurt knew that the two planned to get married and that, as a result, she
would remain in the United States.  Padel said she decided last week that she
could wait no longer. She boarded a Trans World Airlines flight in Frankfurt and
flew to St. Louis, where she intended to catch a flight to Houston.  Pierce said
he first knew she was coming to the United States when she called him from the
Frankfurt airport.  Pierce learned of his fiancee's arrest Friday night as he
waited for her at the Houston airport. He flew immediately to St. Louis.
''There's no question the law was violated,'' Ferrara said. ''In desperation,
they made moves and choices that were unfortunate.'' As she sat Thursday at a
table in the offices of the Immigration and Naturalization Service here, Padel
said, ''This is a very high price to pay.  ''I would never do this again.  ''He
sends me letters into the jail; I read them, sometimes, 10 times over and over.
It's the only thing that keeps me going.  ''If I ever come back to the United
States, I'm going to make a big circle around Missouri.'' Padel is being held in
a cell at the Jennings police station until a decision is made on whether to
return her.  ''She's just a sweet, good-hearted person with a great
personality,'' Pierce said. ''I've found the woman I want to marry, and I'll
marry her.'' She said, ''I don't care where we live as long as we can be
together.''

LOAD-DATE: October 22, 1993

LANGUAGE: English

                  Copyright 1989 St. Louis Post-Dispatch, Inc.


                              56 of 268 DOCUMENTS

                       St. Louis Post-Dispatch (Missouri)

                   May 20, 1989, SATURDAY, FIVE STAR Edition

NEIN GI'S FIANCEE GOING HOME

BYLINE: Louis J. Rose Of the Post-Dispatch Staff

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 1A

LENGTH: 1000 words


A woman from West Germany who was arrested after coming to St. Louis on a
fakepassport to marry her fiance, an American soldier, was ordered deported here
Friday by an immigration judge for unlawfully entering the country last week.
Petra K. Padel, 29, will be placed on a Trans World Airlines tonight to
Frankfurt, West Germany. Authorities had planned to deport Padel Friday night,
but her hearing ran long and officials were unable to get her to the 8:30 p.m.
flight, officials said.  Padel was arrested May 12 at Lambert when she arrived
there from Frankfurt and held in a police holdover cell in Jennings.  Her fiance
is Berry L. Pierce, 23, of Riverside, Calif., a soldier assigned to Fort Hood,
Texas. The two had planned to be married this week. But immigration officials at
Lambert took Padel into custody when they discovered she was trying to enter the
United States with a falsified visitor's visa.  Authorities said she had taken
another person's visa page and affixed it to her passport after the American
consulate in Frankfurt turned down three applications she had made for a
visitor's visa.  At a hearing here Friday, Padel sat across a table from her
fiance as she heard an immigration judge order that she be deported and
permanently barred from returning to the United States by visa because of
passport fraud and a record of four criminal arrests.  Padel admitted at the
hearing that she had been twice arrested on petty theft charges in California
and also had been arrested twice in Germany on shoplifting charges. She also
conceded she had used a fake visa to come to the United States with the intent
of getting married.  Judge Robert Vinikoor, who was in Chicago, issued the order
in the telephone conference hearing that linked him with immigration officials
in St.  Louis and Kansas City. The hearing here was held at the Immigration and
Naturalization Service office at 210 North Tucker Boulevard, downtown.  Padel's
attorney, Peter Ferrara, said the decision would not be appealed.  He said Padel
possibly could return to the United States after one year if she could get a
special waiver.  Ferrara described the passport fraud as an ''absolutely
reckless act. That was done without thinking. It was so apparent.'' The
deportation ruling ended any chance that the couple could be married here.
Officials gave Padel and Pierce time to talk privately. He had been denied a
chance to see her since Sunday. After the hearing, they embraced and comforted
each other. Pierce said he would ask the Army to reassign him back to Hanau,
West Germany, where they had courted.  ''I just love him,'' Pagel said, while
clasping hands with her fiance.  Vinikoor, the immigration judge, told Padel she
could be prosecuted on criminal charges if she returned to the United States
within one year.  Ferrara, her attorney, said that after the year was up she
might be able to return if she could persuade the American consulate to grant
her a waiver to see her son, Michael, 9, who is in California with his father.
She said she had divorced the father.  Chester S. Moyer, agent in charge of the
immigration office here, said consulate officials in Frankfurt had confirmed
that Padel had lied in three applications she submitted there last month for a
visitor's visa. He said she had failed to disclose any of her arrests and her
hospitalizations, although such disclosures were required by immigration law.
He said consulate officials had been unaware of the arrests but had turned down
the requests for a visa after concluding that she intended to try to live
permanently in the United States while concealing such an intent.  Moyer said
that Pierce could have returned to the United States and then submitted an
application for a fiancee visa. Immigration officials would have then made a
thorough background check and required the applicants to submit proof that they
were legally free to marry and that she otherwise was qualified to enter the
country.

LOAD-DATE: October 22, 1993

LANGUAGE: English

GRAPHIC: Photo; COLOR Photo by Kevin Manning/Post-Dispatch Petra K. Padel and
Berry L.  Pierce saying their goodbyes Friday after an immigration judge ordered
Padel deported to Germany. The two had intended to marry in the U.S.  COLOR
Photo by Kevin Manning/Post-Dispatch (3* Edition cutline) Petra K.  Padel and
Berry L. Pierce enjoying a moment together after a hearing Friday at Immigration
and Naturalization Service offices in downtown St.  Louis.

                  Copyright 1989 St. Louis Post-Dispatch, Inc.


                              57 of 268 DOCUMENTS

                       St. Louis Post-Dispatch (Missouri)

                    July 2, 1989, SUNDAY, THREE STAR Edition

U.S. TO DEPORT IRA FUGITIVE TO BRITAIN

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 11D

LENGTH: 534 words


WASHINGTON (AP) - Attorney General Dick Thornburgh has ruled that a member of
the Irish Republican Army should be deported to the United Kingdom to serve a
life sentence for killing a British soldier.  Thornburgh overruled an
immigration appeals board finding that the man, Joseph Patrick Thomas Doherty,
could reopen proceedings to seek political asylum.  Thornburgh's decision on
Friday administratively clears the way for the Immigration and Naturalization
Service to deport Doherty.  But a 1988 deportation order by then-Attorney
General Edwin Meese III is still being challenged before the 2nd U.S. Circuit
Court of Appeals in New York, said Justice Department spokesman David Runkel.
''In my discretion, I would not grant the respondent asylum,'' Thornburgh said
in the administrative decision. ''It is the policy of the United States that
those who commit acts of violence against a democratic state should receive
prompt and lawful punishment.'' Deporting Doherty to the United Kingdom ''would
unquestionably advance this important policy,'' Thornburgh wrote.  The attorney
general noted that the State Department had determined that deporting Doherty
''is in the foreign policy interests of this country.'' The case has been the
focus of political controversy, particularly among a group of House members from
New York City who contend he should be treated as a political refugee.  Doherty,
34, was convicted of killing a British Army captain during an ambush of British
troops in Ulster in 1980. He escaped from a maximum-security prison in Belfast
the next year and was arrested in New York City in 1983. He has been held in
federal custody since then.  Thornburgh overruled a Board of Immigration Appeal
Nov. 14 holding that Doherty could reopen his request for political asylum.
Thornburgh was asked to review that decision by the Immigration Service.  The
agency began deportation proceedings in 1984 after a federal judge in Brooklyn,
N.Y., ruled that Doherty could not be extradited because his crime was a
political act that made him eligible for asylum.

LOAD-DATE: October 25, 1993

LANGUAGE: English

GRAPHIC: Photo; Headshot Photo - Dick Thornburgh, Attorney general

                  Copyright 1989 St. Louis Post-Dispatch, Inc.


                              58 of 268 DOCUMENTS

                       St. Louis Post-Dispatch (Missouri)

                    July 21, 1989, FRIDAY, FIVE STAR Edition

'NO HITCHES' IN JOB FOR MCNARY APPOINTMENT TO HEAD THE INS IS STILL ON TRACK,;
OFFICIAL SAYS

BYLINE: Linda Eardley and Virgil Tipton Of the Post-Dispatch Staff

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 6A

LENGTH: 1040 words


The expected nomination of St. Louis County Executive Gene McNary as the
nation's top immigration official is ''on track,'' albeit a slow one, a Justice
Department official said Thursday.  ''I'm surprised it hasn't happened by now,''
said David Runkel, assistant to the attorney general. ''Every time I check - and
I checked this morning - I'm told it's still on track, there are no hitches.''
Runkel said McNary, the county's top official for the last 14 years and the
county chairman of George Bush's presidential campaign, remains the leading
candidate for commissioner of the U.S. Immigration and Naturalization Service.
Meanwhile, McNary said he's been conducting business as usual as county
executive, although he said he's not considering long-range plans for the county
so much as he has in the past.  ''Certainly from the standpoint of taking the
initiative on any new projects, I'm not going to do that,'' McNary said in an
interview. ''But from the standpoint of running this government, I can do that,
I am doing that and I'm doing it well.'' McNary said he's considered long-range
regional issues, including county reorganization and a football stadium, in his
terms as executive.  But, he said, ''In the position I'm in now, I'm not going
through that mental process to think of St. Louis 10 years hence.'' McNary has
been meeting with the person who is expected to be his successor, County
Councilman H.C. Milford of Webster Groves, to talk about governmental and
political issues. Milford, R-5th District, is expected to be appointed by the
County Council to fill McNary's seat until the election next year.  Milford said
he's been talking as well to political and civic leaders, including some of
those suggested by McNary.  But Milford said no transition - formal or informal
- had begun.  ''There's no job for an assistant county executive,'' Milford
said. ''And there's only one chair up there'' in the executive's office.  Ever
since Bush was sworn in in January, rumors that an appointment for McNary would
be announced in a few days or a few weeks have raced through the halls of the
county administration building. Milford jokingly confessed to a little anxiety
on his part.  ''I've been hanging by my fingernails since January,'' he said.
Although McNary's imminent departure has created an air of expectancy in county
government, it has not created one of uncertainty, officials say.  Democrats and
Republicans on the Council say McNary is still clearly in charge.  ''I haven't
noticed a situation where you have a lame duck,'' said Councilman John R. Shear
of Ferguson, D-1st District, a frequent critic of the executive. ''McNary is
still doing and saying things as if he's county executive and plans to be for
some time.'' But, said Councilman George M. ''Jerry'' Corcoran of St. Ann, D-2nd
District, ''After the county executive gets his appointment, we'll find out
what's been held up in the pipeline.'' Attorney General Dick Thornburgh formally
recommended McNary to the White House in early May. At that time, one source
said the announcement of the nomination by the White House could be made in a
week.  But more than two months have passed with nary a word from the White
House.  Runkel said the required FBI investigation into McNary's background has
been completed. All that remains is a review by the White House staff.  He said
other nominations also have been moving slowly because of the press of business
at the White House.  Even if the nomination is made soon, sources expressed
doubt that there would be enough time for McNary to be confirmed before Congress
adjourns August 4. The nomination would go to the Senate Judiciary Committee for
review and then to the full Senate.  The committee review may be a rocky one.
Sen. Paul Simon, D-Ill., the ranking Democrat on the immigration subcommittee of
the judiciary panel, has indicated that McNary may not be the best man for the
job.  ''Sen. Simon knows he doesn't have any background in immigration,'' said
John Trasvina, Simon's counsel. Simon had urged the White House to appoint a
Hispanic or an Asian, Trasvina said.

LOAD-DATE: October 25, 1993

LANGUAGE: English

GRAPHIC: Photo; PHOTO by AP ... The Mat Ahead ... Wilfredo Gomez of Puerto Rico
(right) sending Mario Salazar of Mexico to the mat in the second round at the
Diplomat Hotel in Hollywood, Fla. Gomez, the former World Boxing Council Super
bantamweight champion, won the match.

                  Copyright 1989 St. Louis Post-Dispatch, Inc.


                              59 of 268 DOCUMENTS

                       St. Louis Post-Dispatch (Missouri)

                    July 28, 1989, FRIDAY, FIVE STAR Edition

DISSIDENT AUTHOR KEEPS CITIZENSHIP

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 17A

LENGTH: 494 words


WASHINGTON (AP) - An immigration appeals panel ruled Thursday that leftist
writer Margaret Randall is a U.S. citizen and so cannot be deported - a decision
that ''rebukes'' the Immigration and Naturalization Service, her lawyer said.
In a 3-2 decision, the Board of Immigration Appeals determined that the poet and
author had been forced by dire economic straits to take out Mexican citizenship
in 1967 and had never freely renounced her U.S. citizenship.  Randall, an
outspoken critic of U.S. policy, lived 14 years in Cuba and Nicaragua. Her
attorneys say the immigration service was trying to punish her for her
pro-communist views. The board was trying to determine whether she should be
deported.  ''I'm absolutely thrilled, of course, and I'm especially happy
because I feel the struggle that was felt by so many people over the last 4 1/2
years has borne some fruit,'' Randall said at her home in Albuquerque, N.M.
Added David Cole, who represented Randall on behalf of the New York-based Center
for Constitutional Rights:''I think the decision affirms that U.S.  citizenship
is a constitutional right and that one cannot lose one's citizenship because the
government doesn't like what you say in your criticism of its policies.  ''It's
sort of a nice rebuke to the INS.'' An spokesman said for the immigration
service he had yet to see the ruling and had no immediate comment.  Records show
that Randall and her Mexican husband separated in 1967 and that she was left to
support her three children. Because of Mexico's work rules, she had to take out
Mexican citizenship in order to find employment.  ''I did it because my children
didn't have enough to eat, and I felt I didn't have any other choice,'' she told
a State Department employee two years later.  After living in Cuba and
Nicaragua, Randall returned to the United States in 1983 on a visitor's visa.
When she was denied permanent resident alien status, she appealed to the Supreme
Court, which refused to hear her case until the immigration appeal had been
completed.

LOAD-DATE: October 25, 1993

LANGUAGE: English

                  Copyright 1989 St. Louis Post-Dispatch, Inc.


                              60 of 268 DOCUMENTS

                       St. Louis Post-Dispatch (Missouri)

                   July 28, 1989, FRIDAY, THREE STAR Edition

AT LAST, FAIR TREATMENT FOR REFUGESS?

SECTION: EDITORIAL; Pg. 2NA

LENGTH: 400 words


A federal district court ruling in Texas could lead to a change in policy toward
Central Americans seeking admission to this country as victims of political
persecution. If so, immigration policy would better reflect the intent of
Congress and would no longer be an instrument of the discredited Reagan policy
for Central America. In the ruling, Judge William Wayne Justice ordered the
Immigration and Naturalization Service to allow six Salvadorans to live and work
in the United States while their requests for political asylum were being
processed.  The INS policy is to keep refugees in detention camps in Texas
during the review period. In almost all cases, the agency finds that the
refugees' claims of political persecution were frivolous and deports them as
illegal aliens, saying they were fleeing poverty, not persecution.  During the
Reagan administration, Central Americans who fled right-wing dictatorships were
said to be economic refugees; those who came to this country from Nicaragua were
deemed to be fleeing political persecution. The practice has continued in the
Bush administration as the flow of refugees intensifies.  Judge Justice
concluded, in effect, that the INS frivolously decided that the six Salvadoran
refugees' claims of political prosecution were frivolous.  If his finding is
given broader application, it would mean that the INS would begin allowing
applicants to stay and work in this country while their applications were
reviewed and that the reviews would be conducted without ideological bias.
Perhaps St. Louis County Executive Gene McNary, who is awaiting appointment as
head of the INS, will make that his first order of business.

LOAD-DATE: October 25, 1993

LANGUAGE: English

                  Copyright 1989 St. Louis Post-Dispatch, Inc.


                              61 of 268 DOCUMENTS

                       St. Louis Post-Dispatch (Missouri)

                  August 2, 1989, WEDNESDAY, FIVE STAR Edition

EIGHT CHINESE PERFORMERS MAY WANT POLITICAL ASYLUM

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 4C

LENGTH: 414 words


SAN FRANCISCO (AP) - Eight Chinese performers have been missing for a week since
they left a group returning to China, but U.S. immigration officials said
Tuesday no one had contacted them on behalf of the entertainers.  ''All I can
tell you is they haven't walked into this office and applied for any relief,''
said David Ilchert, a spokesman for the Immigration and Naturalization Service.
Four other Chinese citizens have chosen to defect in San Francisco since the
June 4 crackdown on pro-democracy demonstrators in Beijing.  If the eight
entertainers who fled the Kun Opera company last week seek political asylum in
the United States, it would be the largest single defection of Chinese citizens
since the 1950s.  The performers left the 28-member opera over a two-day period
last week while the company was in San Francisco en route to Shanghai following
a series of performances in the United States.  The opera company flew back to
Shanghai on Sunday, according to Officer Larry Higgins, coordinator of VIP
travel at San Francisco International Airport.  A spokesman for the Chinese
consulate confirmed the eight performers did not leave with the company.  ''They
were influenced by people with ulterior motives,'' said spokesman Wang Shaohua.
The missing entertainers include Hua Wen-yi, a famous opera singer in Shanghai.
Two other singers in the group, Chen Tong-shen and Zhan Ping-ping, also are well
known in Shanghai. Zhan is a famous television and film star as well as an opera
performer. The others were identified as Qui Huan, Chen Chi-ping, Ma Xin-bao,
Peter Chong and Lou Sei-long.

LOAD-DATE: October 25, 1993

LANGUAGE: English

                  Copyright 1989 St. Louis Post-Dispatch, Inc.


                              62 of 268 DOCUMENTS

                       St. Louis Post-Dispatch (Missouri)

                 August 9, 1989, WEDNESDAY, THREE STAR Edition

IMMIGRATION OFFICER SAYS HE'LL RESIGN

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 11A

LENGTH: 187 words


MIAMI (AP) - Perry Rivkind, Florida's volatile immigration director, has
announced his resignation. Rivkind, district director for the Immigration and
Naturalization Service since 1983, said Monday that he would resign Aug. 21 to
teach criminal justice at a small college in Virginia.  Three years ago, Rivkind
ignored orders to deport a group of Nicaraguan refugees, saying that he was
flouting U.S. policies that treated the Nicaraguans the same as other Central
Americans, who had no special immigration status.  The 800,000-plus Cubans
living in south Florida - the largest Cuban community outside the city of Havana
- praised Rivkind's anti-communism and enforcement of an open-door policy for
Cuban refugees.

LOAD-DATE: October 25, 1993

LANGUAGE: English

                  Copyright 1989 St. Louis Post-Dispatch, Inc.


                              63 of 268 DOCUMENTS

                       St. Louis Post-Dispatch (Missouri)

                  August 10, 1989, THURSDAY, FIVE STAR Edition

NINE KEY CONTRAS SEEK ASYLUM U.S. STATE DEPARTMENT IMMEDIATELY GRANTS REQUEST;
FROM 3

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 5C

LENGTH: 694 words


MIAMI - Nine top Contra military officers, including the rebels' chief of staff,
requested political asylum Wednesday, and three requests were immediately
approved, said Perry Rivkind, a U.S. immigration official.  The high-ranking
Contras, who include field commanders and advisers from both fronts, won the
State Department's blessing for asylum two days after five Central American
presidents agreed on a plan to demobilize the forces that had been fighting to
topple the government of Nicaragua.  Leading the list of officers filing claims
in Miami was Israel Galeano, the Contras' chief of staff. Galeano, also known as
Commander Franklin, has become a favorite of policy makers in the State
Department. He said the Contra leaders had no plans to move to the United
States. Speaking as he was seated outside the office of the Immigration and
Naturalization Service, he said the officers sought nothing more than ''travel
documents.'' ''Some of us have the need right now to mobilize in the
international field,'' Galeano said. ''There is a need to get documents to
travel.'' But Francisco ''Johnny'' Delgadillo, a political adviser on the
Southern Front who also was granted asylum, admitted the action could be
misinterpreted by an estimated 12,000 rebel soldiers languishing in border
camps.  ''It could be demoralizing to the troops if we were seen as retiring
from the struggle,'' Delgadillo said. ''But the troops know that's not so. Our
struggle continues.'' The officers denied a connection between their
applications and the accord signed Monday in Tela, Honduras, by five presidents
in Central America. The accord calls for the dismantling of the Contras within
four months.  ''There is no connection,'' Delgadillo said. ''We're doing this
errand to facilitate our struggle.'' At the same time, he voiced bitterness at
the agreement.  ''We don't want to live like slaves to the signatures of the
presidents,'' he said. ''We want to go on being rebels.'' Galeano promised
Wednesday to continue his figh t with ''limitless human resources'' and to
return to the mountains of Nicaragua if the Contras were kicked out of Honduras.
The nine officers' claims for asylum were processed while they waited outside
the immigration office.  Rivkind, district director of immigration, said the
claims had been given ''special action'' status and reviewed immediately.
''Because of the nature of their positions and possible security problems, we
ask that their cases be moved fast,'' Rivkind said.  A State Department official
said that the officers, some of whom were traveling with provisional Honduran
documents, needed legal status to participate in complex Central American
diplomacy and that U.S. asylum was ''one way'' of getting that status.
Meanwhile, in Washington, a spokesman for the rebels said that most of the
Contra rebels in Honduras would not return to Nicaragua because of a fear of
revenge by supporters of the Sandinistas, who control the government of
Nicaragua.

LOAD-DATE: October 25, 1993

LANGUAGE: English

                  Copyright 1989 St. Louis Post-Dispatch, Inc.


                              64 of 268 DOCUMENTS

                       St. Louis Post-Dispatch (Missouri)

                  August 11, 1989, FRIDAY, THREE STAR Edition

9 CONTRA LEADERS CITE ACCORD, SEEK POLITICAL ASYLUM IN U.S.

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 16A

LENGTH: 320 words


MIAMI - Nine top Contra military officers, including the rebels' chief of staff,
requested political asylum Wednesday, and three requests were immediately
approved, said Perry Rivkind, a U.S. immigration official.  The high-ranking
Contras won the State Department's blessing for asylum two days after five
Central American presidents agreed on a plan to demobilize forces fighting to
topple the government of Nicaragua. Leading the list of officers filing claims
in Miami was Israel Galeano, the Contras' chief of staff. Galeano, also known as
Commander Franklin, has become a favorite of policy makers in the State
Department. He said the Contra leaders had no plans to move to the United
States. Speaking while he was seated outside the office of the Immigration and
Naturalization Service, he said the officers sought nothing more than ''travel
documents.'' But Francisco Delgadillo, a political adviser on the southern front
who also was granted asylum, acknowledged the action could be misinterpreted by
rebel soldiers in border camps.  ''It could be dem oralizing to the troops if we
were seen as retiring from the struggle,'' Delgadillo said. ''But the troops
know that's not so. Our struggle continues.'' Rivkind, district director of
immigration, said the requests were given ''special action'' status and reviewed
immediately.  ''Because of the nature of their positions and possible security
problems, we ask that their cases be moved fast,'' Rivkind said.

LOAD-DATE: October 25, 1993

LANGUAGE: English

                  Copyright 1989 St. Louis Post-Dispatch, Inc.


                              65 of 268 DOCUMENTS

                       St. Louis Post-Dispatch (Missouri)

                   August 25, 1989, FRIDAY, FIVE STAR Edition

ALIEN WORK PERMIT TO CHANGE; EFFORT WILL SLOW COUNTERFEITING

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 12A

LENGTH: 334 words


LOS ANGELES (AP) - Immigration officials will change the color of immigrant work
permits, commonly known as green cards, to prevent counterfeiters from
duplicating the documents.  The new cards will be issued to aliens who have
achieved permanent-resident status. They will be rose-colored on one side, and
will bear the photograph, signature and fingerprints of the worker.  The reverse
side will bear pink-to-blue rainbow shading to cut down on forgeries, the
Immigration and Naturalization Service said Wednesday.  ''The more you change
the color, the more confusing it is to counterfeiters,'' explained Neil Henry of
the immigration office in Los Angeles.  Western Regional Director Bill King said
the cards also would be issued in conjunction with immigration service plans to
begin accepting applications for seasonal agricultural worker status.  The
four-year program will permit noncitizen participants to enter or remain in the
United States legally as agricultural workers, King said. The filing period
begins next Sept. 1 and runs through Nov. 30.  Officials say the temporary work
permits probably will still be called green cards, however. The cards haven't
been green since the 1960s, Henry said. But the name has stuck through several
color changes, most recently blue and off-white.

LOAD-DATE: October 25, 1993

LANGUAGE: English

                  Copyright 1989 St. Louis Post-Dispatch, Inc.


                              66 of 268 DOCUMENTS

                       St. Louis Post-Dispatch (Missouri)

               September 3, 1989, SUNDAY, LATE FIVE STAR Edition

3 LEBANESE DETAINED; JET SEIZED

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 10C

LENGTH: 520 words


HARRISBURG, Pa. (AP) - Federal officials seized on Saturday a small Lebanese jet
that landed at Harrisburg without permission. They questioned three passengers
who they had suspected could be terrorists.  An investigation showed that the
three were not terrorists but aliens who had failed to check in with immigration
officials, said Henry Brattlie, deputy director of the U.S. Immigration and
Naturalization Service office in Philadelphia.  ''We had no knowledge when they
came in whether they were terrorists or fine, upstanding citizens,'' Brattlie
said. They showed ''blatant disregard of the country's laws,'' he said.
Brattlie said the 20-passenger Gulf Stream G-3 jet had left London on Sunday. It
landed the same day at Harrisburg International Airport after disregarding
orders to travel to Philadelphia for an immigration inspection.  Two pilots and
at least six other people were on board, he said.  Brattlie said the $13 million
jet was seized and three passengers were detained at 1:30 a.m. Saturday, after
the jet returned to Harrisburg from Burbank, Calif. The other passengers on
board when the plane first stopped at Harrisburg were not on board when it
returned and apparently had left the country, Brattlie said.  U.S. Attorney
James West said the three detainees were released later Saturday, pending
decisions by prosecutors and immigration officials on whether to press charges.
''We expect to file a (criminal complaint in the near future,'' Brattlie said.
Under federal law, any alien who enters the country without checking in with
immigration officials can be jailed for up to five years if convicted. Anyone
trying to bring an alien into the country without permission can be fined $1,000
and sentenced to one year in jail.  The plane is owned by a Lebanese corporation
that is co-owned by its two pilots. It was leased to passengers Watche
Manoukian, 44; his wife, Tamar, 28; and his brother Varoujean, 38, Brattlie
said.  The Manoukians were the three detained.

LOAD-DATE: October 25, 1993

LANGUAGE: English

                  Copyright 1989 St. Louis Post-Dispatch, Inc.


                              67 of 268 DOCUMENTS

                       St. Louis Post-Dispatch (Missouri)

                September 14, 1989, THURSDAY, THREE STAR Edition

IMMIGRATION CHIEF WILL HAVE HANDS FULLS

BYLINE: Arthur C. Helton and Robert C. Hill

SECTION: EDITORIAL; Pg. 3C

LENGTH: 1280 words


The upcoming confirmation hearings for Gene McNary, recently nominated by
President Bush to be the new commissioner of the Immigration and Naturalization
Service, raises basic questions about the administration's immigration agenda.
The new INS commissioner will face many challenges and will have numerous
chances to achieve improvements and reform.  Some of the challenges concern
immigration reform facing Congress. The Sen ate passed legislation in July that
would increase ''new seed'' immigration and may ultimately reduce
family-sponsored ''chain'' immigration. The House has yet to act on the issue. A
new INS commissioner could help to educate Congress on the direction immigration
reform should take. The needs of the marketplace now favor increased admissions
to meet demands of expanding international competition. The Department of Labor
estimates that by the year 2000 more than 80 percent of new entrants into the
work force will be minorities, women and immigrants. Furthermore, our country's
traditions favoring family unity militate against reducing extended family
immigration.  Other challenges relate to recent reform measures. Under
legalization programs established in 1986, more than 3 million aliens have
achieved status as temporary residents. Those who have remained here for 18 m
onths may apply for permanent resident status during the subsequent 12-month
period. If they do not apply within this period, they will lose their temporary
status and become subject to deportation, for some as early as November of this
year.  Hundreds of thousands of these people, however, may lose their chance for
durable status because of ignorance or misinformation. The INS sends notices to
temporary residents, but this approach ignores the mobility and linguistic
diversity of newly legalized aliens. More concerted education and outreach by
federal authorities is needed.  A public outreach program could help reduce
problems in the workplace as well. The New York State Inter-Agency Task Force on
Immigration Affairs last year investigated employment discrimination caused by
new immigration controls. The study surveyed employers and found that some, out
of fear of sanctions, would subject job applicants who look or sound foreign
born to overly stringent screening procedures. Over 22,000 citizen and
work-authorized aliens were denied employment in New York because of
questionable practices, costing more than $7 million a week in lost tax revenue.
An outreach effort by the federal authorities is needed to educate employers and
job applicants.  Refugee and asylum policies pose particular problems. Thousands
of Central Americans and Chinese students are seeking refuge in the United
States.  Hundreds of asylum seekers remain in indefinite detention in U.S.
immigration jails. Vietnamese boat people continue to leave their homeland and
risk their lives in the treacherous waters of the South China Sea, many hoping
eventually to come to the United States. Soviet nationals aspiring to come to
this country now may wait for many months (if not years) in view of backlogs and
recently restricted admission criteria.  Various bills concerning refugee
matters have been introduced in Congress in response to the push and pull of
foreign policy and immigration enforcement priorities. Policies on refugee
protection must be made under neutral principles. Asylum and refugee cases
should be decided on objective criteria.  Proceedings to determine refugee
status should be expeditious, but fair.  The issuance of regulations now
awaiting the attorney general's signature would begin constructive reform in the
area.  Those who do not qualify as refugees may nonetheless still deserve
protection from return to situations of unsafety. Also, abusive deterrence
measures such as unnecessary detention or interdiction without a fair
opportunity to seek refu gee protection should be ended.  The agenda must also
include basic administrative reform. The INS has traditionally been
underfinanced and neglected by the administration - a tradition that can only be
exacerbated by current budget limits. The agency has suffered from inconsistency
and waste. Effective management has been frequently frustrated by the failure to
collect pertinent data. An old guard of officials con cerned with preserving
their bureaucratic fiefdoms suffer from a ''siege mentality'' and are
mistrustful of guidance both from Washington and outside the agency. The INS's
public image has been jeopardized.  A new INS commissioner will have much to
change. As a first step, the commissioner should reach out to private sector
experts, both academic and practitioners, and seek advice to help counterbalance
bureaucratic languor. A formal advisory group should be established for this
purpose. From such an initiative, further reform can come.  Arthur Helton
directs the Refugee Project of the Lawyers Committee for Human Rights and chairs
the Advisory Committee of the New York State Inter-Agency Task Force on
Immigration Affairs. Robert Hill, Washington, was formerly acting director and
counsel of the Asylum Policy and Review Unit in the Department of Justice.

LOAD-DATE: October 25, 1993

LANGUAGE: English

                  Copyright 1989 St. Louis Post-Dispatch, Inc.


                              68 of 268 DOCUMENTS

                       St. Louis Post-Dispatch (Missouri)

               September 24, 1989, SUNDAY, LATE FIVE STAR Edition

MCNARY MEETS WITH HISPANICS COUNTY EXECUTIVE VOWS TO BE RESPONSIVE IN;
IMMIGRATION POST

BYLINE: Virgil Tipton Of the Post-Dispatch Staff

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 3D

LENGTH: 774 words


In his first meeting with an ethnic group since he was nominated as federal
immigration chief, St. Louis County Executive Gene McNary told about 70
Hispanics that he would keep the immigration service open to advice from outside
interest groups.  ''I intend to be responsive to every immigrant-interested
organization. And that includes Hispanic, Asian, Irish, Jewish, whatever,''
McNary said in the meeting Friday. ''I think the (immigration service has been
somewhat guarded and closed, and I think that should change.'' But McNary
provided no specific plans. And he answered questions in general terms or
declined to answer altogether.  McNary has said that the Justice Department,
which oversees the Immigration and Naturalization Service, has asked him to
avoid discussing immigration policy in detail with interest groups.  McNary
found himself the target of some criticism earlier this month when he failed to
show up at a meeting in Washington of ethnic group leaders.  The session had
been set up by the White House without McNary's knowledge, he says. The Justice
Department had discouraged the meeting.  Friday's meeting was at the Sheraton
Westport Inn and featured members of several Hispanic groups from the St. Louis
area. The groups included Image, the Hispanic Chamber of Commerce, the League of
United Latin American Citizens and Hacemos.  One of the most pointed questions
came from Humberto Zamora Trevino, the Mexican counsel general for part of the
Midwest. Reading from a written statement, Zamora said that several Mexican
citizens trying to make it to the United States have been shot and killed by
members of the U.S. Border Patrol. ''I ask you, Mr. McNary, now that you will be
in charge of the INS, will you make your best effort to stop all these
unfortunate cases?'' Zamora asked.  The comments drew applause from the
audience. McNary didn't respond directly, but he asked for a copy of Zamora's
comments.  McNary took questions from the floor for about an hour. H e promised
to look into whether immigration policy is fair and whether immigration laws are
being enforced.  Members of the Hispanic groups had mixed reactions after the
hourlong question-and-answer session.  ''I'm encouraged,'' said Alex Ojeda of
Jerseyville. ''In fact, I'm in favor of his being confirmed.'' Ojeda said he
thought McNary was a good administrator, something that would stand him in good
stead in the job. Some ethnic organizations have said McNary's lack of
experience in immigration issues will handicap him, but Ojeda said he didn't
think that mattered.  But Tony Riojas of St. Charles said McNary lacked
sensitivity.  ''He's probably very good as a manager,'' Riojas said. ''But as
far as being sensitive to the Hispanic issue, I don't think he has a feel for
that.'' McNary is scheduled to begin confirmation hearings before the Senate on
Oct. 3. President George Bush nominated him as immigration commissioner last
month.

LOAD-DATE: October 25, 1993

LANGUAGE: English

                  Copyright 1989 St. Louis Post-Dispatch, Inc.


                              69 of 268 DOCUMENTS

                       St. Louis Post-Dispatch (Missouri)

                  October 24, 1989, TUESDAY, FIVE STAR Edition

LAW PROFESSOR FILLED IN AS MCNARY'S TUTOR

BYLINE: Virgil Tipton Of the Post-Dispatch Staff

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 3A

LENGTH: 694 words


Gene McNary, the Republican St. Louis County executive picked by President
George Bush to head the nation's immigration agency, prepared himself for the
job by asking a liberal professor at Washington University to be his tutor.
McNary had seven or eight one-on-one sessions in August and September with
Stephen H. Legomsky, who teaches and does research in immigration law, Legomsky
said Monday.  McNary called Legomsky in early August, shortly after he was
nominated by Bush.  ''He said he was eager to learn as much as he could about
immigration, and he wanted to hear about things from a variety of viewpoints,''
Legomsky said.  ''If I had to choose a word to characterize how he approached
the subject matter, I think it would be with tremendous humility.'' McNary's
confirmation as commissioner of the Immigration and Naturalization Service was
pending Monday in the Senate.  Legomsky, 42, has taught in the law school at
Washington University for nine years and is writing a textbook on immigration
law. He is a leading academic expert in immigration law in the St. Louis area.
Legomsky described himself as liberal and ''pro-alien'' in immigration matters.
Legomsky said he was unsure why McNary picked him. McNary also worked with
experts in the Justice Department.  McNary was unavailable for comment Monday.
Legomsky tutored McNary without charge.  In their one- or two-hour meetings in
Legomsky's office, the professor gave his student a general overview of current
immigration law and instructed him in a few specific areas, including: The legal
basis for admitting an immigrant to the United States. The steps an immigrant
has to take to be admitted.  How and why people are deported.  How immi grants
can win political asylum.  The sanctions the government can take against an
employer who hires someone the employer knows is an illegal alien.  Legomsky
said he gave McNary homework between sessions.  ''He would read the reading
material and then we would meet and he would ask some very detailed and
insightful questions,'' Legomsky said.  For the most part, McNary listened and
asked questions rather than making comments, Legomsky said. But McNary did have
a few instinctive reactions to immigration matters, Legomsky said. Legomsky said
McNary: Was ''horrified'' that families of Mexican immigrants must wait up to 10
years to be admitted.  Seemed to be troubled by the idea of automatically
detaining aliens who come to the United States without documents.  Said that he
felt strongly that immigration officers should uphold the civil rights of the
people they arrest.  Saw immigrants in a favorable light. ''Some people view
immigrants as a threat. He seemed to view them as a benefit,'' Legomsky said.
McNary himself has declined to comment publicly about immigration issues.
Legomsky said he found McNary to be flexible and open-minded.

LOAD-DATE: October 27, 1993

LANGUAGE: English

                  Copyright 1989 St. Louis Post-Dispatch, Inc.


                              70 of 268 DOCUMENTS

                       St. Louis Post-Dispatch (Missouri)

                  November 20, 1989, MONDAY, FIVE STAR Edition

WAITING GAME INQUIRY QUESTIONS U.S. ADOPTIONS OF FOREIGN INFANTS

BYLINE: Martha Shirk Of the Post-Dispatch Staff

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 1A

LENGTH: 1600 words


In a car outside a hotel in the Philippines, Joyce and Ronald Baker,
childhoodsweethearts from Kirksville, Mo., took custody of a baby born four
weeks earlier in a dirt-floored shanty in a Manila slum.  Joyce Baker says the
baby's mother nursed the infant for one last time, ''patted him on the head,
squeezed my hand, and said goodbye.'' The Bakers named their new baby Aaron
Stewart and took him home to Okinawa, where Ronald Baker is stationed with the
Air Force. Now, more than two years later, they find themselves among 75
American families in Okinawa whose future with their adopted children is
clouded.  The Americans, many of them military families, are targets of an
investigation by U.S. immigration officials into suspected kidnapping and
baby-selling. The investigation has delayed the issuance of immigrant visas that
the children need to become permanent residents of the United States.  ''We did
not buy these babies,'' Joyce Baker said in a recent interview here. ''We went
through a process that each family thought was legal and correct. I can
understand the concern about fraud. But if anyone did anything wrong, it was
done innocently. We can't understand why our own country is putting us through
this.'' A spokesman for the Immigration Service in Washington says that
immigration officials in Seoul are simply doing their jobs in questioning the
circumstances surrounding the adoptions.  ''In some of these adoptions, there is
some real question about the legality,'' said Richard Kenney, the spokesman.
''It's a very emotional situation, but a very complex one, too, because we are
dealing with two foreign governments and the U.S. military. The reason that the
laws are so specific on this is to prevent the ultimate wrong in cases of baby
adoptions: the marketing or selling of children.'' The controversy is likely to
land on the desk of the new INS commissioner, former St. Louis County Executive
Gene McNary, because of intervention in the parents' behalf by key congressional
leaders such as Sen. Edward M.  Kennedy, D-Mass., chairman of the Senate's
subcommittee on immigration and refugee affairs.  American service personnel
have been adopting Filipino children since the end of World War II. As recently
as 1987, according to the National Committee for Adoption, almost 600 adopted
Filipino children were entering the United States each year. But in August 1988,
a resurgence of nationalism among Filipinos led to a virtual ban on private
adoptions by Americans.  Last March, amid reports of past baby-selling, the
Seoul office of the immigration service began to investigate irregularities in
the adoption papers that had been submitted by 26 American families who were
trying to get immigrant visas for Filipino children they adopted before the ban.
Immigration agent Donald M. Whitney says that of 25 cases investigated by
September, 10 involved counterfeit birth certificates. Whitney said he also had
found evidence of what appeared to be: Improper use of military flights by
adoptive parents.  Execution of false affidavits by both adoptive and natural
parents.  Violations of Philippine adoption and immigration laws.  And failure
of some adoptive parents to register the children's adoptions with the Japanese
government, as Japan requires.  Joyce Baker flew to the United States early this
month to publicize the adoptive parents' cause and talk to members of Congress
about speeding up the immigration inquiry.  The Bakers adopted Aaron with the
help of an adoption counselor based in Manila, Amado C. Cayabyab, who had
arranged adoptions for many families in Okinawa. In July 1987, the Bakers flew
to the Philippines to meet with him and Aaron's mother, Corazon Cervantes.
Cervantes told the Bakers that she sometimes worked as a housekeeper but earned
too little to support another child.  ''She spoke no English, so we communicated
through an interpreter,'' Joyce Baker said. ''She hadn't named him after he was
born because she didn't intend to keep him. But she nursed him, which gave him a
better start in life than many other Filipino babies get. We told her a little
about ourselves and had lunch together. She has written us a letter since then
in which she said she was happy that Aaron was with us. She told us that she and
another son were surviving by picking garbage up off the streets.'' The entire
adoption - passport fees, court filings, translations, an administrative fee to
Cayabyab, and hotel and travel bills for the Bakers - cost $1,800, Joyce Baker
said. ''Nobody made a profit from this adoption,'' she said.  Back in Okinawa,
the Bakers went about building a life with Aaron as part of their family, which
also includes two teen-age daughters.  ''He's a very happy, very healthy 2
1/2-year-old,'' Joyce Baker says. ''But he was very sick for the first year of
his life. If he had stayed in Manila, he probably wouldn't have survived his
first six months.'' When the controversy over the adoptions erupted, the Bakers
joined with other adoptive parents in the Okinawa Adoption Support & Information
Society (OASIS) to publicize their problems and seek congressional help. OASIS
acknowledges that some of the adoptive children's paper work may be flawed but
emphasizes that Whitney's investigation has uncovered ''no evidence of
baby-buying or kidnapping.'' Military officials have been supportive of the
adoptive parents, Joyce Baker says.  Brigadier General Robert B. Johnston, the
commanding general of the Camp S.D. Butler Marine base in Okinawa, has urged
U.S. immigration officials to approve visas for the children already adopted.
''Our American families have put their arms around economically deprived
children and, in some cases, children who have known physical disabilities,''
the telegram continued. ''It is unconscionable to even contemplate sending
children back to the Philippines just because the natural mother cannot be
located to confirm that she gave her child up for adoption. The future of a
child under those circumstances would be grim indeed.'' The Bakers submitted
their paper work on Aaron's adoption about 10 days ago and have been told to
expect an answer on an immigrant's visa next spring.  They know of only one visa
that has been issued to a child since the investigation began; a few other
children have been allowed to enter the United States temporarily under a
''humanitarian parole.'' Parents of those children will have to start the
adoption process anew in the United States, Baker says.  Kenney, of the
immigration service, says the Bakers have nothing to worry about ''if they've
done their homework and make sure that everything is proper and done according
to the law of whatever country applies.''

LOAD-DATE: October 27, 1993

LANGUAGE: English

GRAPHIC: Photo; PHOTO by Larry Williams/Post-Dispatch ... Joyce Baker of
Kirksville, Mo., showing a photo of Aaron Stewart Baker, now 2. Baker and her
husband, Ronald, adopted the child in the Philippines. Aaron was born in a
Manila slum.

                  Copyright 1989 St. Louis Post-Dispatch, Inc.


                              71 of 268 DOCUMENTS

                       St. Louis Post-Dispatch (Missouri)

                  January 16, 1990, TUESDAY, FIVE STAR Edition

MCNARY HIT OVER RULES ON REFUGEES

BYLINE: Robert L. Koenig Post-Dispatch Washington Bureau Photo; PHOTO HEADSHOT
of Gene McNary... PHOTO HEADSHOT of Bruce A. Morrison...

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 8A

LENGTH: 974 words


WASHINGTON - Some American Jewish groups and a key congressman are demanding
that Gene McNary explain why his agency's new rules appear to thwart more Soviet
Jews and Christians from coming to the United States.  ''We are disappointed and
outraged by the guidelines issued by the Immigration and Naturalization
Service,'' which McNary heads, said Judy Golub, a Washington representative of
the American Jewish Committee. ''They're going backwards - not forwards.'' Golub
and Rep. Bruce A. Morrison, D-Conn., charged on Monday that the 17-page INS
guidelines issued last week by McNary - the former St. Louis County executive -
would make it more difficult for Soviet Jews and Christians to get the refugee
status that they need to immigrate.  Morrison, chairman of the House Judiciary
Committee's immigration subcommittee, contended that the INS procedures
''ignored the specific intent of Congress'' in passing legislation last fall
aimed at making it easier for Soviet Jews and Christians to get refugee status.
Also expressing objections to the new INS procedures were representatives of the
Council of Jewish Federations and the Hebrew Immigrant Aid Society.  The
controversy surfaces as McNary returns to work today after a trip to Moscow
during which he had hoped to find ways speed up the processing of immigration
applications. Before leaving on the trip, McNary told reporters that ''we have
to get as many people out of (the Soviet Union as we can.'' McNary could not be
reached for comment on Monday. But an INS spokesman defended the new INS rules
and referred a reporter to McNary's comment last week when he issued them.
McNary said then that the new guidelines ''will facilitate access of certain
groups of refugee applicants to the United States resettlement program and
provide INS officers with enhanced sensitivity to these claims during the INS
adjudication process.'' The new guidelines were issued last week to help INS
field offices determine which of the 100,000 Soviet citizens seeking to emigrate
to the United States are eligible to be considered political refugees, thereby
making it easier for them to come here.  To get refugee status, a Soviet citizen
must show that he or she has ''a well-founded fear'' of persecution. For many
years, U.S. officials ruled that all Soviet Jews had a legitimate fear of
persecution, because they were members of a group that historically has been
viewed with hostility by many Russian nationalists.  But as the Soviet Union
began giving permission for more and more Jews to leave, U.S. officials in
August 1988 tightened the guidelines on refugee status to require individuals to
show, on a case-by-case basis, that they had a well-founded fear of persecution.
A spokesman for Morrison said the amendment sponsored by Morrison and Sen.
Frank R. Lautenberg, D-N.J. - and passed by Congress overwhelmingly last fall -
''was written to make it clear that Soviet Jews and Christians are to be
considered to be persecuted on the basis of their religion.'' The amendment
listed religious groups that have ''well-established histories of persecution''
in the Soviet Union as Jews, evangelical Christians, Ukrainian Catholics and
Orthodox Christians.  Morrison's spokesman said the amendment and related
language in a conference report on the legislation ''stated that members of such
persecuted religious groups in the Soviet Union should be eligible for refugee
status.  But the new regulations ignored that intent.'' Fewer than half of the
100,000 Soviet citizens who have applied to come to the United States this year
are expected to be accepted, under several immigration categories, officials
say.  (THE FOLLOWING PARAGRAPH APPEARED ONLY IN THE 3* EDITION) The competition
for refugee status is especially strong because people who enter this country as
refugees are entitled to U.S. government payments for some resettlement and
travel costs.

LOAD-DATE: October 14, 1993

LANGUAGE: English

                  Copyright 1990 St. Louis Post-Dispatch, Inc.


                              72 of 268 DOCUMENTS

                       St. Louis Post-Dispatch (Missouri)

                  January 19, 1990, FRIDAY, FIVE STAR Edition

MCNARY ALTERS RULES ON REFUGEE STATUS FOR PERSECUTED SOVIETS

BYLINE: Robert L. Koenig Post-Dispatch Washington Bureau

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 16A

LENGTH: 867 words


WASHINGTON - Gene McNary, the nation's top immigration official, moved to defuse
protests from American Jewish groups by revising guidelines Thursday to make it
easier for Soviet Jews and persecuted Soviet Christians to be admitted to the
United States as refugees.  U.S. Jewish groups had argued that the previous
Immigration Service guidelines did not take into account the persecution of
Soviet Jews in assessing whether they should be granted refugee status.  Under
the new guidelines, Soviet applicants would be eligible for refugee status if
they: Had been the victims of discriminatory or prejudicial actions, including
abusive treatment at work or denial of their ability to study or practice their
religion.  Claimed that acts of persecution had been committed ''against
similarly situated persons'' living in their area.  Claimed they had been
victims of mistreatment or prejudicial acts resulting from their efforts to
leave their country.  McNary, former county executive of St. Louis County, is
commissioner of the Immigration and Naturalization Service. He said that he
arranged during a trip to Moscow last week to increase the agency's staff there
to handle the flood of Soviet Jews and others who are seeking to emigrate.
''We're confident we've established the procedures and process for expediting
these applications,'' McNary said at a news conference Thursday.  Despite the
changes, McNary acknowledged that few Soviet Jews and persecuted Soviet
Christians were likely to be allowed into the United States as refugees this
year.  That is because between 40,000 and 45,000 of this year's 50,000 total
refugee slots will be filled by Soviet Jews and others who have already left the
Soviet Union and are ''in the pipeline'' to come to the United States. Most of
those people have applied through the U.S. immigration office in Rome.  During
his trip to Moscow, McNary asked Soviet officials to give 189 Soviet refusniks
permission to leave the country. McNary said he had received ''a cooperative
response'' from the Soviets.  Mark E. Talisman, director of the Council of
Jewish Federations' Washington office, harshly criticized the 17-page guidelines
earlier this week. But he said in a statement Thursday that he was satisfied
with the changes made by McNary's office.  ''I believe everybody's satisfied
with the guidelines now,'' McNary said Thursday. ''We think the problems are
resolved.'' On other issues, McNary said Thursday that: The number of Central
Americans entering the United States illegally appears to have more than tripled
in recent months.  McNary said about 1,000 people from Central America, mainly
El Salvador, would be arrested by U.S. officials this month, compared with about
300 a month last fall.  The immigration service will take steps to ensure that
it does not scare away undocumented aliens from taking part in this year's
census. McNary said the agency would not suspend enforcement actions but would
try to avoid any acts ''that would intimidate people about the census.'' He has
been made a member of the Justice Department's new Organized Crime Council.
''There are alien organized-crime groups,'' McNary said. ''Also, much of
organized crime is drug-related, and drugs come over the border, which is our
responsibility.'' He hopes to hire about 500 more border guards, bringing the
agency's total to about 4,300.

LOAD-DATE: October 14, 1993

LANGUAGE: English

                  Copyright 1990 St. Louis Post-Dispatch, Inc.


                              73 of 268 DOCUMENTS

                       St. Louis Post-Dispatch (Missouri)

                  January 29, 1990, MONDAY, FIVE STAR Edition

BRYAN, CAVE TURNS THE TABLES, LURES LAWYER

SECTION: EDITORIAL; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 294 words


From raidee to raider, Bryan, Cave, McPheeters & McRoberts has snatched an
immigration lawyer to help plug holes in its Los Angeles office.  Bryan, Cave
lost nine lawyers from its L.A. office last month when they were hired away to
form an L.A. office for a Chicago firm, Sonnenschein, Nath & Rosenthal. Last
week, Bryan, Cave announced it had made a lateral hire of its own, snatching
immigration specialist Angelo A. Paparelli and an associate away from Lillick &
McHose of L.A.  Paparelli had headed Lillick's immigration law group, and is
expected to handle immigration matters for Bryan, Cave's California and Pacific
Rim practice. He is a member of the American Bar Association's Immigration
Coordinating Committee and has written numerous articles on business and visa
practice.  ''With Congress and the Administration now planning wholesale
revisions to the system of legal immigration, Mr. Paparelli's experience will
strengthen our capabilities in this emerging area of law,'' said James R. Dunn,
manager of Bryan, Cave's L.A. office.  SOURCE: - Claudia MacLachlan

LOAD-DATE: October 14, 1993

LANGUAGE: English

                  Copyright 1990 St. Louis Post-Dispatch, Inc.


                              74 of 268 DOCUMENTS

                       St. Louis Post-Dispatch (Missouri)

                February 7, 1990, WEDNESDAY, THREE STAR Edition

HUMANE RULING FOR ALIEN FAMILIES

SECTION: EDITORIAL; Pg. 2C

LENGTH: 507 words


One of the first sweeping orders issued by Gene McNary in his new post as headof
the Immigration and Naturalization Service may also be one of his most humane.
On Friday, the former St. Louis County executive ruled that illegal immigrants
who are children or spouses of legal immigrants may remain in this country. The
order, which could affect as many as 100,000 people, shows compassion in an area
where compassion has too often been lacking.  Since the Immigration Reform and
Control Act took effect in November 1986, it has been plagued by inconsistent
enforcement and unkind rulings that created confusion instead of the order that
was intended. Nowhere was that chaos more pronounced than in the treatment of
foreign families where one member met legal requirements to remain in the United
States but others could not.  The earlier policy enforced by the INS let such
family members remain only if there was a ''compelling humanitarian reason''
against their deportation.  Such a policy was unnecessarily restrictive, not to
mention so vague that no one could know what to expect in individual cases. Mr.
McNary rightly criticized it as ''nebulous'' and said it was being unfairly and
unevenly enforced.  Even though only a handful of people were deported under the
old rule, the uncertainty it caused was unfair to the immigrants. It also
resulted in the exact opposite situation that the immigration reform law was
designed to bring about. The government's ability to split up families under
such regulations, Mr. McNary pointed out, only encouraged them to violate the
law in their efforts to stay together. Although more than 3 million illegal
immigrants have been granted legal status under the amnesty program in the
reform law, many more avoided applying for it because they feared their
relatives would be deported. With Mr.  McNary's new policy, that fear should be
eased. The ruling is a hopeful sign for his tenure at the INS.

LOAD-DATE: October 14, 1993

LANGUAGE: English

                  Copyright 1990 St. Louis Post-Dispatch, Inc.


                              75 of 268 DOCUMENTS

                       St. Louis Post-Dispatch (Missouri)

                    May 25, 1990, FRIDAY, FIVE STAR Edition

NEW IMMIGRATION AGENCY SOUGHT PANEL SEEKS SERVICE CONSOLIDATION

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 22A

LENGTH: 187 words


Nation (REST) A congressional commission wants a new independent agency to
administer most immigration and refugee policies. Under the proposal, most of
the service functions now performed by the Immigration and Naturalization
Service and the State Department would be consolidated in a new agency. Border
security and interdiction efforts would be kept separate.  A draft report by the
commission in Washington proposes a new Agency for Migration Affairs to
coordinate immigration policy and services.  SOURCE: AP

LOAD-DATE: October 14, 1993

LANGUAGE: English

                  Copyright 1990 St. Louis Post-Dispatch, Inc.


                              76 of 268 DOCUMENTS

                       St. Louis Post-Dispatch (Missouri)

                  June 20, 1990, WEDNESDAY, FIVE STAR Edition

AIDS DEMONSTRATION  ACTIVISTS PROTEST IMMIGRATION POLICY

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 9A

LENGTH: 226 words


In the first of many protests planned to disrupt the 6th International AIDS
Conference, hundreds of homosexual activists blocked San Francisco's streets at
rush hour Tuesday afternoon to demonstrate their opposition to U.S.  immigration
policies that discriminate against people infected with the AIDS virus.
Marching through downtown to an Immigration and Naturalization Service office,
activists began a week of protest that some say could turn violent and that all
expect to test the city's reputation as a national symbol of urban civility.
Scientists at the conference will hear progress reports on a flood of drugs
under study for AIDS (acquired immune deficiency syndrome) and related
infections.  SOURCE: Compiled From News Services

LOAD-DATE: October 14, 1993

LANGUAGE: English

                  Copyright 1990 St. Louis Post-Dispatch, Inc.


                              77 of 268 DOCUMENTS

                       St. Louis Post-Dispatch (Missouri)

                  June 20, 1990, WEDNESDAY, THREE STAR Edition

GAY BASHING AT THE BORDER

SECTION: EDITORIAL; Pg. 2B

LENGTH: 494 words


An international AIDS conference in San Francisco this week has thrown a
spotlight on an overly restrictive and outdated U.S. immigration policy.
Current law requires the Immigration and Naturalization Service to take special
but unnecessary precautions for anyone entering the United States who declares
himself or herself to be a homosexual. The policy should be changed.
Immigration law denies entry to the United States to anyone with a
''psychopathic personality, sexual deviation or a mental defect'' - language
that the U.S. Supreme Court has ruled can be used to bar homosexuals.  Normally,
the regulation is ignored because immigration officials do not ask those
traveling to the United States to state their sexual orientation. But INS
officials say they are obligated to enforce the law for any people who declare
themselves to be homosexuals. In California, a 1983 court ruling led to INS
policy where a Public Health Service doctor must issue a certificate saying
someone is a homosexual; that person is then turned over to a judge to determine
whether entry to the United States should be barred.  Groups in this country
have protested the unfairness of the law, saying that it treats homosexuality as
a crime or an illness when it is neither and should not be used as a pretext to
prohibit travel.  Homosexuals could evade the law simply by avoiding a
declaration of their sexual orientation. But they should not have to be driven
underground in that way. The best way to erase such discrimination is to change
the regulations, either in Congress or through an emergency administrative
order. That way, by 1992, when a similar AIDS conference is scheduled for
Boston, no one would be barred by laws that long ago became inappropriate.

LOAD-DATE: October 14, 1993

LANGUAGE: English

                  Copyright 1990 St. Louis Post-Dispatch, Inc.


                              78 of 268 DOCUMENTS

                       St. Louis Post-Dispatch (Missouri)

                   August 31, 1990, FRIDAY, FIVE STAR Edition

FAMILY IS DEPORTED TO THIRD COUNTRY

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 23A

LENGTH: 200 words


An administrative judge has ordered immigration authorities to deport members of
a Salvadoran family to a third country rather than return them to their
strife-torn nation. The family currently is living in the Washington area.  The
ruling was hailed on Thursday by a refugee advocacy lawyer as an important step
toward changing the government's policy of forcing aliens to return to homelands
beset by civil war if they can't prove that they are likely to be harmed.
Arthur C. Helton, director of the refugee project for The Lawyers Committee for
Human Rights, estimated that as many as 500,000 Salvadorans live in this
country. Last year, the INS granted 337 applications for asylum status, while
denying 13,861.  SOURCE: AP

LOAD-DATE: October 18, 1993

LANGUAGE: English

                  Copyright 1990 St. Louis Post-Dispatch, Inc.


                              79 of 268 DOCUMENTS

                       St. Louis Post-Dispatch (Missouri)

                  September 7, 1990, FRIDAY, FIVE STAR Edition

DEFECTOR: HEARING TODAY ON DEPORTING OF ROMANIAN

BYLINE: Philip Dine Of the Post-Dispatch Staff

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 3A

LENGTH: 1094 words


After widespread publicity in the last week over the case of the Romanian guest
to the VP Fair who defected and wants political asylum here, the government has
moved up his immigration hearing to today.  The Romanian, Dorian Alexandrescu,
says that's a good sign in his effort to avoid being deported to Romania, where
he fears Communist officials will persecute him.  Meanwhile, VP Fair officials,
who originally distanced themselves from Alexandrescu's defection, now praise
him as a ''nice young man'' and are volunteering to speak on his behalf at the
Immigration and Naturalization Service hearings.  And in recent days, people
from Cape Girardeau, Mo., and Southern Illinois have called offering
Alexandrescu clothing, money, friendship and a place to live.  ''In Romania, it
never could happen, something like this,'' Alexandrescu said Thursday. ''It's a
very pleasant sensation. At the same time, I'm a little embarrassed by this. I
wish I could thank all these people.'' But the Romanian government angrily
rejects Alexandrescu's claim that nothing has changed in Romania, calling it an
insult to those who died in the revolt in December.  Cornel Dragomirescu,
spokesman for the Romanian Embassy in Washington, admitted to some problems in
his struggling country but said Romanians are free.  He said Alexandrescu wants
to stay here because ''he probably likes it more in the United States. I
understand that. We do not have much luxury. We are just a beginner in
democracy; that is a fact. But to say that nothing has changed after the
revolution is not fair, not fair for the people who died in the revolution.''
Alexandrescu called those remarks ''an opinion of a guy who's working for the
embassy. His interest is to show to all the world that it's a democracy.''
Alexandrescu, 22, says he was beaten and arrested several times over the spring
and summer for his articles in a student newspaper. His reports said the
shooting of Romanian leader Nicolae Ceaucescu on Dec. 25 resulted not from a
true revolution but from a long-planned coup by other Communists.l Alexandrescu
was one of 14 young Eastern Europeans invited to the VP Fair in July as part of
a ''Celebration of Freedom.'' The others returned home; Alexandrescu defected.
He still lives with the family that was his host during the fair, and he works
in a printing shop in St. Louis.  He and his attorney, Lilian Fernandez, said
that the government had asked them a couple of days ago to come as soon as
possible for the interview that begins the lengthy asylum process. That
interview had been expected to take place in mid-September.  They attributed the
government's rush to the wide public interest in Alexandrescu's case.  Chester
Moyer, who heads the St. Louis office of the Immigration and Naturalization
Service, said he was not allowed to discuss an asylum case.C s VP Fair official
Allyn Glaub, who headed the East Europeans' involvement in the fair, said this
week he would be glad to testify on Alexandrescu's behalf.  ''He seemed
well-adjusted, very happy, got along with the rest of the kids,'' Glaub said.
''While he was here, he conducted himself above reproach.  He had good morals.
He arrived at places on time, he behaved himself, he was well-dressed, poised.''
ht Since Alexandrescu's story was told last week, the VP Fair has ''got a bum
rap because people think we just ignored him,'' Glaub said. ''But our hands are
tied because it is a government problem,'' When VP Fair organizers learned of
the defection, they called Matt Weiller of the Washington-based United States
Information Agency, who arranged the East Europeans' trip to St. Louis, Glaub
said. Weiller told the fair's organizers to stay out of the matter, Glaub said.
Weiller said Thursday that the USIA didn't want to encourage its guests to seek
asylum but didn't want to oppose those seeking freedom.  Asked about the
discrepancy in the views held by Alexandrescu and the Romanian Embassy about
events in Romania, Weiller said the situation was unstable.  ''The jury is still
very much out on how much things have changed,'' he said.  The outcome of
Alexandrescu's case may depend on how the situation in Romania evolves in coming
months, Weiller said.  The VP Fair doesn't plan to invite East Europeans next
year, but that decision is unrelated to this year's incident, Glaub said. The
invitation was a onetime event sparked by the changes in Eastern Europe, he
said.

LOAD-DATE: October 18, 1993

LANGUAGE: English

GRAPHIC: Photo; PHOTO HEADSHOT of (Dorian) Alexandrescu

                  Copyright 1990 St. Louis Post-Dispatch, Inc.


                              80 of 268 DOCUMENTS

                       St. Louis Post-Dispatch (Missouri)

                  September 7, 1990, FRIDAY, FIVE STAR Edition

DEFECTOR: HEARING TODAY ON DEPORTING OF ROMANIAN

BYLINE: Philip Dine Of the Post-Dispatch Staff

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 3A

LENGTH: 1094 words


After widespread publicity in the last week over the case of the Romanian guest
to the VP Fair who defected and wants political asylum here, the government has
moved up his immigration hearing to today.  The Romanian, Dorian Alexandrescu,
says that's a good sign in his effort to avoid being deported to Romania, where
he fears Communist officials will persecute him.  Meanwhile, VP Fair officials,
who originally distanced themselves from Alexandrescu's defection, now praise
him as a ''nice young man'' and are volunteering to speak on his behalf at the
Immigration and Naturalization Service hearings.  And in recent days, people
from Cape Girardeau, Mo., and Southern Illinois have called offering
Alexandrescu clothing, money, friendship and a place to live.  ''In Romania, it
never could happen, something like this,'' Alexandrescu said Thursday. ''It's a
very pleasant sensation. At the same time, I'm a little embarrassed by this. I
wish I could thank all these people.'' But the Romanian government angrily
rejects Alexandrescu's claim that nothing has changed in Romania, calling it an
insult to those who died in the revolt in December.  Cornel Dragomirescu,
spokesman for the Romanian Embassy in Washington, admitted to some problems in
his struggling country but said Romanians are free.  He said Alexandrescu wants
to stay here because ''he probably likes it more in the United States. I
understand that. We do not have much luxury. We are just a beginner in
democracy; that is a fact. But to say that nothing has changed after the
revolution is not fair, not fair for the people who died in the revolution.''
Alexandrescu called those remarks ''an opinion of a guy who's working for the
embassy. His interest is to show to all the world that it's a democracy.''
Alexandrescu, 22, says he was beaten and arrested several times over the spring
and summer for his articles in a student newspaper. His reports said the
shooting of Romanian leader Nicolae Ceaucescu on Dec. 25 resulted not from a
true revolution but from a long-planned coup by other Communists.l Alexandrescu
was one of 14 young Eastern Europeans invited to the VP Fair in July as part of
a ''Celebration of Freedom.'' The others returned home; Alexandrescu defected.
He still lives with the family that was his host during the fair, and he works
in a printing shop in St. Louis.  He and his attorney, Lilian Fernandez, said
that the government had asked them a couple of days ago to come as soon as
possible for the interview that begins the lengthy asylum process. That
interview had been expected to take place in mid-September.  They attributed the
government's rush to the wide public interest in Alexandrescu's case.  Chester
Moyer, who heads the St. Louis office of the Immigration and Naturalization
Service, said he was not allowed to discuss an asylum case.C s VP Fair official
Allyn Glaub, who headed the East Europeans' involvement in the fair, said this
week he would be glad to testify on Alexandrescu's behalf.  ''He seemed
well-adjusted, very happy, got along with the rest of the kids,'' Glaub said.
''While he was here, he conducted himself above reproach.  He had good morals.
He arrived at places on time, he behaved himself, he was well-dressed, poised.''
ht Since Alexandrescu's story was told last week, the VP Fair has ''got a bum
rap because people think we just ignored him,'' Glaub said. ''But our hands are
tied because it is a government problem,'' When VP Fair organizers learned of
the defection, they called Matt Weiller of the Washington-based United States
Information Agency, who arranged the East Europeans' trip to St. Louis, Glaub
said. Weiller told the fair's organizers to stay out of the matter, Glaub said.
Weiller said Thursday that the USIA didn't want to encourage its guests to seek
asylum but didn't want to oppose those seeking freedom.  Asked about the
discrepancy in the views held by Alexandrescu and the Romanian Embassy about
events in Romania, Weiller said the situation was unstable.  ''The jury is still
very much out on how much things have changed,'' he said.  The outcome of
Alexandrescu's case may depend on how the situation in Romania evolves in coming
months, Weiller said.  The VP Fair doesn't plan to invite East Europeans next
year, but that decision is unrelated to this year's incident, Glaub said. The
invitation was a onetime event sparked by the changes in Eastern Europe, he
said.

LOAD-DATE: October 18, 1993

LANGUAGE: English

GRAPHIC: Photo; PHOTO HEADSHOT of (Dorian) Alexandrescu

                  Copyright 1990 St. Louis Post-Dispatch, Inc.


                              81 of 268 DOCUMENTS

                       St. Louis Post-Dispatch (Missouri)

                October 28, 1990, SUNDAY, LATE FIVE STAR Edition

THE GOLDEN DOOR OPENS WIDER

SECTION: EDITORIAL; Pg. 2B

LENGTH: 400 words


A bill to overhaul the nation's immigration laws for the first time in 25 years
strikes a good balance. It opens America's doors wider to immigrants besides
those who already have relatives here, and it attracts foreigners with special
skills and talents that American businesses need but cannot find. Under current
law, 490,000 foreigners can enter the United States each year, but 90 percent of
them must have close relatives who already have established U.S. citizenship.
The legislation worked out by a House-Senate conference committee would raise
that ceiling to 700,000 a year from 1992 through 1994, then reduce it to 675,000
a year after that. Existing preferences for immigrants with certain skills would
increase to 140,000 a year.  Special provisions also are worthwhile. One grants
special temporary protection to refugees from El Salvador who are trying to
escape violence.  Another allows 10,000 special visas for foreign investors who
establish businesses in depressed areas and hire at least 10 American workers.
One further feature of the bill would remove a needlessly harsh provision of
current law. It lets the secretary of health and human services determine a list
of communicable diseases that can bar entry to the United States - a move that
should overturn a ban on AIDS patients. The 1992 International AIDS Conference
is scheduled for Harvard University, but it might have dropped its sponsorship
if AIDS patients had been barred from attendance.  It's now fashionable to
consider America not a melting pot that makes everyone alike but a mosaic or a
salad that mixes disparate ingredients and yet allows them to keep their unique
qualities. The immigration bill would enhance that tradition and add more
ingredients to an already vibrant mix.

LOAD-DATE: October 18, 1993

LANGUAGE: English

                  Copyright 1990 St. Louis Post-Dispatch, Inc.


                              82 of 268 DOCUMENTS

                       St. Louis Post-Dispatch (Missouri)

                November 14, 1990, WEDNESDAY, FIVE STAR Edition

MCNARY TOOK 3 EMPLOYEES TO U.S. AGENCY

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 7A

LENGTH: 334 words


Gene McNary, the nation's immigration commissioner, took three of his St.  Louis
County employees with him to Washington. They are: G.H. Kleinknecht, who was
head of the St. Louis County Police Department for 17 years. Kleinknecht started
early this year in the top law-enforcement job in the Immigration and
Naturalization Service.  In his new job as associate commissioner for
enforcement, Kleinknecht manages a staff of 6,000. He is responsible for
planning and directing all enforcement activities, including the Border Patrol,
investigations, anti-smuggling efforts and detention, deportation and
intelligence.  William A. Skaggs, who was McNary's director of revenue in St.
Louis County for eight years and his top assistant or chief of staff for five
years.  McNary took Skaggs to Washington to be a top assistant.  Skaggs'
background was in a family-owned real estate business for 14 years before McNary
asked him to join the county government in 1976.  Joyce Skaggs, who was McNary's
secretary while he was county executive and county prosecuting attorney. Joyce
Skaggs is McNary's executive secretary and administrative assistant in
Washington and is married to William Skaggs.  The Skaggses moved to Washington
to join McNary's team about a year ago.

LOAD-DATE: October 18, 1993

LANGUAGE: English

                  Copyright 1990 St. Louis Post-Dispatch, Inc.


                              83 of 268 DOCUMENTS

                       St. Louis Post-Dispatch (Missouri)

                 November 15, 1990, THURSDAY, FIVE STAR Edition

MCNARY FEELS 'STABBED IN BACK' BY MEMOS

BYLINE: Bill Lambrecht Post-Dispatch Washington Bureau

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 1A

LENGTH: 1014 words


WASHINGTON - Gene McNary, the St. Louisan who heads the Immigration and
Naturalization Service, feels ''stabbed in the back'' by an agency lawyer who
wrote scathing memos about him, sources said.  The lawyer, William Cook, won't
be allowed by McNary to continue as chief counsel because ''a working
relationship is no longer possible,'' a source said.  Meanwhile, Sen. Paul
Simon, D-Ill., said Wednesday that the extraordinary set of memos disclosed this
week will be discussed when the Senate Judiciary subcommittee on immigration
holds hearings on the immigration service early next year. Simon sits on that
panel.  ''We have some concerns, and this raises more question marks,'' Simon
said.  One congressional aide, who asked not to be identified, said the
infighting involving McNary and aides to Attorney General Dick Thornburgh
suggested that McNary's position was weakening in the administration of
President George Bush.  Disclosure of the memos this week came shortly after a
draft report by the General Accounting Office, citing problems in the agency.
Many of the problems existed before McNary became commissioner last year.
McNary, the former executive of St. Louis County, is not worried about losing
his job, a spokesman said.  ''He has no reason to believe that he does not have
the strong support of the attorney general and the president because he has been
a strong supporter of theirs,'' said the spokesman, Verne Jervis.  McNary would
not discuss the memos. ''He is not going to dignify these charges with a
response,'' Jervis said. Cook sent his memos by computer to Deputy Attorney
General William Barr as recently as August. The immigration service is part of
the Department of Justice, headed by the attorney general.  Contents of three of
the memos were disclosed in the Post-Dispatch on Wednesday.  They criticize
McNary on a variety of matters, from surrounding himself with ''St. Louis
cronies'' to failing to keep controls over his agency to poor work habits.  The
memos provide a glimpse into the brutal infighting that can occur in the federal
bureaucracy. But several congressional aides said the memos suggest that turf
battles at the immigration agency are worse than usual.  For instance, Cook
wrote that McNary has been terrible at coordinating with the Justice Department,
''predicated on his oft-expressed belief that the AG (Thornburgh is mortally
wounded politically and and will soon be leaving.'' Cook, a native New Yorker in
his mid-30s, was assigned to assist McNary during his Senate confirmation
hearing last spring. Until then, he had been a lawyer in the department's
legislative office.  According to sources, McNary appointed Cook despite
reservations by some in the Department of Justice. Aides to Thornburgh did not
return telephone calls on Wednesday to discuss Cook's memos.  ''McNary fought
for the guy. He went to the wall to get him in the job,'' said one source
familiar with Cook's hiring.  Cook appeared to regard himself as a mole in
McNary's office, and some of what he wrote was self-serving. He was described by
one source as intent on gaining as much control as possible over workings of the
agency. The memos apparently began to flow when his relationship with McNary
soured.  Cook was reported to be traveling and unavailable for comment.  McNary
was described as ''madder than hell'' when he returned last week from a business
trip to Australia and learned that the memos might become public.  He telephoned
allies in Congress to warn them that they might soon be reading about the
damaging memos. He also tried to reach Bush, whom he has known since 1980, when
he directed Bush's ill-fated presidential efforts in Missouri.  ''The first
inkling we had about the infamous memos was last week, when Gene McNary called
us as a courtesy,'' said Alex Netchvolodoff, top assistant to Sen. John C.
Danforth, R-Mo.  Neither Danforth nor Sen. Christopher S. Bond, R-Mo., had a
comment about the memos.

LOAD-DATE: October 18, 1993

LANGUAGE: English

                  Copyright 1990 St. Louis Post-Dispatch, Inc.


                              84 of 268 DOCUMENTS

                       St. Louis Post-Dispatch (Missouri)

                  November 30, 1990, FRIDAY, FIVE STAR Edition

BUSH SIGNS LAW EASING BARRIERS TO IMMIGRATION

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 14A

LENGTH: 1054 words


WASHINGTON - President George Bush signed on Thursday a bill that overhauls U.S.
immigration laws. The new law will increase the number of people entering the
United States by 40 percent and repeals laws barring aliens for political
reasons or because of homosexuality.  ''It is the most comprehensive reform of
our immigration law in 66 years,'' said Bush at a signing ceremony at the White
House. He called the new law a ''complementary blending of our tradition of
family reunification with increased immigration of skilled individuals to meet
our economic needs.'' The measure goes into effect in 1992. It increases total
annual immigration levels to 700,000 a year through 1994, from around 500,000.
After 1994, the total will be at least 675,000 annually.  The new law also ends
a 1952 law denying visas to individuals because of their political beliefs,
particularly Communist Party members. The law was passed in the era of
Red-baiting Sen. Joseph R. McCarthy, R-Wis. Under it, the United States has been
able to exclude or deport aliens on political and ideological grounds.  An
individual's sexual orientation no longer may be used in passing judgment on the
person's request to be admitted to the United States.  The new law also
nullifies a requirement that AIDS be included in a list of contagious diseases
that are grounds for exclusion from the United States. It allows discretion in
deciding whether a person with the AIDS virus may be admitted.  Highly skilled
Western Europeans, particularly scientists, engineers and educators, will find
it easier to migrate to the United States because of higher ceilings on the
number of individuals allowed to enter the country. Immigration based on job
skills will more than double - to 140,000 a year from 54,000 a year .  The new
law reduces the threat of deportation for Central American refugees. It cuts by
as much as 10 years the waiting period for the relatives of permanent residents
from countries such as Mexico with a high number of applicants.  The bill will
also: Give special status to wealthy investors, setting aside 10,000 visas for
those with at least $500,000 to invest in businesses that create new jobs.
Earmark 40,000 visas a year for individuals from Italy, Poland, Ireland and
other countries virtually shut off from immigration in the last 20 years because
priority was given to people with relatives in the United States, most of whom
were from Asian and Latin countries.  Reserve at least 16,000 of those 40,000
visas a year for Irish immigrants, making Ireland the only country with a
guaranteed number of visas.  Grant a special ''temporary protected status''
until July 1992 for Salvadorans.  Other bills signed Thursday by Bush are: A
crime control measure that toughens penalties for certain white-collar crimes,
including a possible life prison term for some cases involving fraud by savings
and loan officers.  It calls for increased penalties for offenses committed
against children; for the first time, possession of child pornography is a
federal offense.  Bush expressed ''deep disappointment'' with the measure,
calling it a shadow of his own 1989 proposal. Stripped from the bill were Bush's
proposals for a death penalty for new categories of federal crimes, including
mail bombing, terrorist murder and assassination of federal officers.  A bill
giving the National Transportation Safety Board more flexibility on when to make
public its transcripts from cockpit voice recorders after airline accidents.
The old law required the agency to release the transcript no later than 60 days
after a crash.  Now, the safety board will be able to release the transcript
either when it holds a public hearing or when a majority of its staff reports on
the accident are placed in the public record, whichever comes first.  A measure
authorizing $2 billion for programs that incorporate housing with health and
counseling services for the homeless.  ''By providing health services, substance
abuse services and counseling in addition to housing assistance, this act
enhances the administration's ability to address the needs of the homeless in
all their complexity,'' the president said.

LOAD-DATE: October 18, 1993

LANGUAGE: English

                  Copyright 1990 St. Louis Post-Dispatch, Inc.


                              85 of 268 DOCUMENTS

                       St. Louis Post-Dispatch (Missouri)

                December 2, 1990, SUNDAY, LATE FIVE STAR Edition

VISA LAW CALLED GOOD FOR BUSINESS

BYLINE: William Flannery Of the Post-Dispatch Staff

SECTION: BUSINESS; Pg. 1E

LENGTH: 1134 words


The Immigration Act of 1990, which President George Bush signed Thursday, is the
most sweeping change in American immigration requirements in nearly 40 years,
according to a legal expert.  He added that the new law would make the United
States much more competitive economically by bring in the best and brightest
people from around the world.  ''This bill represents the ability of this
country to position itself well in the global economy that is going to take off
in the 1990s,'' said George S.  Newman, an immigration attorney in Clayton and
member of the board of governors of the American Immigration Lawyers
Association.  Under the new law, 700,000 immigration visas will be issued a
year, about the same as the current level. But Newman said the new act
dramatically benefits people with business skills and education. A total of
140,000 visas are reserved for such immigrants.  ''The (change represents the
ability of this country to take advantage of the international research
community, the community of international scholarship and the international
financial community,'' Newman said.  ''This bill almost triples the number of
employment-related visas.'' Newman said 40,000 immigration slots are now
reserved ''for people who previously had to compete with several other
categories for only 27,000 visas.'' The new ''employment-base immigrants'' fall
into three main categories, Newman said: Aliens with ''extraordinary abilities''
and ''sustained national or international acclaim'' in the sciences, arts,
education, business or athletics.  In short, international superstars in any
field. ''Outstanding'' university and college professors and researchers with at
least three years in their fields who are ''entering a tenured or
tenure-tracking'' position at an American institution.  Foreign-born executives
and managers with American multinational companies who are transferred to the
United States.  ''The executives and managers went from the sixth preference
category - intra-company transferees, which has been terribly oversubscribed for
years - to virtually the highest preference category,'' Newman said.  He said
the law was ''a very clear recognition'' of U.S. ties to the international
economy.  U The new law also establishes 40,000 visas for professionals holding
advanced degrees and ''aliens of exceptional ability,'' whose skills and
training offer substantial economic benefits to the United States.  A third
category is set aside for other skilled workers, professionals holding
baccalaureate degrees and unskilled workers. This group has 40,000 visas a year.
''There are another 10,000 visas which are allocated to a category, which is
sort of congressional favorites, called ''certain special immigrants,'' Newman
said.  ''Most of those visas are going to go to religious workers . . . like a
nun coming in from an order overseas.'' In addition, 10,000 visas are reserved
for foreign entrepreneurs who want to establish new businesses in the United
States.  ''This is my favorite category,'' Newman said. ''This is where the real
benefit comes . . . . These are called 'employment creation visas.' '' ''They
are for individuals who are willing to invest $1 million in a new enterprise
that will employ or create 10 new jobs,'' Newman said.  Newman said this
category was modeled in part on a Canadian program that brings in Chinese
investors from Hong Kong.  In 1997, the British crown colony will be returned to
the Peoples Republic of China. China has signed an international treaty
guaranteeing Hong Kong's continued existence as a capitalist economy with a
democratic government.  But many wealthy Hong Kong business people don't believe
the promises and they are leaving.  Newman said the new U.S. category would help
Hong Kong residents.  ''But once the focus is removed from Hong Kong, this
category of visas is going to be available all over the world for investors who
are going to put their money in our economy.'' Newman said that 3,000 of the
investor slots are reserved for people willing to locate in an area of high
unemployment, either urban or rural.  Even if no one invests in a
high-unemployment area, Newman said, the new entrepreneur visas will generate a
minimum of ''70,000 new jobs a year, every year in this country.'' Newman said
universities and research institutes would be among the big winners under the
new law.  ''Among the real high-tech engineering and physics programs, the
percentage of foreign graduate students is now at 65 and 70 percent,'' he said.
''I think this new statute helps this country look at these kids as prospective
Americans. If they get a visa, they are going to be a high-ticket employee and a
generator of economic activity buying homes, cars and other American-made
products.''

LOAD-DATE: October 18, 1993

LANGUAGE: English

                  Copyright 1990 St. Louis Post-Dispatch, Inc.


                              86 of 268 DOCUMENTS

                       St. Louis Post-Dispatch (Missouri)

                  December 3, 1990, MONDAY, FIVE STAR Edition

GOOD RIDDANCE TO MCCARRAN-WALTER ACT

SECTION: EDITORIAL; Pg. 2B

LENGTH: 454 words


One of the most important provisions of the new immigration law signed by
President Bush on Thursday is notable not for what it does but for what it
undoes. The legislation repeals the McCarran-Walter Act, passed during the
height of the Red scare years to bar entry into the United States by aliens with
''subversive'' connections. The 1952 act was a heavy-handed, misguided attempt
to renege on the most basic promises of freedom that this country stands for.
Keeping people out because of what they believe is the most un-American of
ideas, but in the atmosphere created by Wisconsin Sen. Joseph McCarthy, halting
subversive ideas was the height of false patriotism.  Over the years, the
McCarran-Walter Act has been used to deny visas to writers such as Nobel
laureate Gabriel Garcia Marquez and Graham Greene as well as political figures
such as Yasser Arafat, chairman of the Palestine Liberation Organization. Even
though the Red scare subsided and more enlightened legislators passed new bills
that rendered the act mostly moot, it remained on the books, a sad reminder of a
chapter of American history that should never have happened.  The new law will
admit many more immigrants, including those with skills sought by American
companies. Families will be reunited. Homosexuals may no longer be excluded, and
the administration may declare that AIDS is not a reason for barring immigrants.
Terrorists and hijackers may be kept out, and overly broad language allows the
secretary of state to exclude aliens whose entry ''would have potentially
serious foreign policy consequences.'' Such restrictions must be used carefully.
They must never be allowed to be a mere substitute for the unreasonable barriers
of the McCarran-Walter Act.  That law is best gone but not forgotten, so that
its restrictions are never imposed again.

LOAD-DATE: October 18, 1993

LANGUAGE: English

                  Copyright 1990 St. Louis Post-Dispatch, Inc.


                              87 of 268 DOCUMENTS

                       St. Louis Post-Dispatch (Missouri)

               December 23, 1990, SUNDAY, LATE FIVE STAR Edition

SANCTUARY AT LAST

SECTION: EDITORIAL; Pg. 2B

LENGTH: 534 words


After years of a literally life-or-death struggle for Salvadoran and Guatemalan
immigrants, the federal government has agreed to give them sanctuary while their
requests for political asylum are considered. The humane settlement may help as
many as half a million aliens escape repressive regimes. The settlement, reached
in federal court in San Francisco, halts all deportations or deportation
hearings of refugees from El Salvador and Guatemala. Under the ruling, the
Immigration and Naturalization Service must issue such immigrants work permits
until they can file new applications for asylum and their cases can be heard. As
many as 150,000 refugees have applications that have been denied or are pending,
officials say, and 350, 000 more will be encouraged to apply for the first time.
Besides the refugees themselves, the ruling vindicates American churches that
formed the sanctuary movement in the 1980s to protect Central American refugees
who fled repression in their native lands. The churches filed suit accusing the
federal government of violating the U.S. Refugee Act of 1980, which bars
immigration officials from considering ideology in deciding who should get
asylum.  The suit charged that the applications from the Salvadoran and
Guatemalan refugees were rejected not on objective grounds but to avoid
embarrassment to the U.S. government, which had aided the very governments that
the fleeing aliens feared. Immigration officials had claimed that the aliens
were trying to escape not persecution but poor economic conditions and general
disruption.  Since 1980, the government has denied 97 percent of asylum
applications from Salvadoran refugees and 99 percent from Guatemalans. Those
proportions strongly indicate that the decisions were tainted by political
considerations.  If the settlement is enforced, politics should no longer play a
role, and the United States can truly become the beacon of freedom its citizens
consider it to be.

LOAD-DATE: October 18, 1993

LANGUAGE: English

                  Copyright 1990 St. Louis Post-Dispatch, Inc.


                              88 of 268 DOCUMENTS

                       St. Louis Post-Dispatch (Missouri)

                  August 5, 1989, SATURDAY, FIVE STAR Edition

MCNARY SAYS HE'LL STAY ON THE JOB

BYLINE: Virgil Tipton Of the Post-Dispatch Staff

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 1A

LENGTH: 1094 words


Gene McNary, nominated Friday as the nation's top immigration officer, said
heintended to remain St. Louis County executive until the U.S. Senate reaches a
final decision on his nomination in the fall.  ''I intend to do the job until I
am no longer on the payroll,'' McNary said in a news conference.  In the
meantime, McNary said, he will set up a transition team with County Councilman
H.C. Milford of Webster Groves, R-5th District, McNary's probable successor as
executive.  McNary declined to talk in detail about immigration issues with the
press until after his confirmation.  The announcement that McNary had formally
been nominated sent a wave of excitement - and relief - through the county
administration building.  County officials had been expecting an announcement
for months.  But McNary, 53, won't be cleaning out his desk for a few weeks: a
Senate vote on his confirmation isn't expected until late next month or early
October, McNary said.  Milford said Friday that he had made no final decisions
on his staff and county department heads but that he had chosen a chief of
staff. He wouldn't say who his choice was but hinted that it might be Dee
Joyner, executive director of the St. Louis County Economic Council.  ''Dee
Joyner would make an excellent chief of staff - but I am not prepared to make
any formal announcements,'' Milford said.  When a county executive resigns
before his term ends, the County Charter calls for the seven-member County
Council to name a successor from the same party. Milford appears to have the
votes to be elected successor.  Milford and McNary are Republicans.  In the news
conference, McNary also said he: Had been studying issues that he might have to
address as commissioner of the Immigration and Naturalization Service.  Planned
to place some of his staff members or department heads in jobs in the
immigration agency.  Be lieved that he was qualified for the job, despite
criticism that he lacks experience in immigration matters.  In a prepared
statement, McNary said he considered it important to protect U.S. borders and to
be fair to immigrants.  ''The Immigration Reform and Control Act of 1986 marked
major changes in this nation's immigration laws,'' McNary said in the statement.
''During the past two years, considerable progress has been made in implementing
those changes. I look forward to carrying on this work and accepting new
challenges as they are determined by the president and by Congress.  ''A mission
of a sovereign nation must be to preserve the integrity of its borders while at
the same time we must be willing to remember that we are a nation of immigrants.
This is our heritage. Control of illegal immigration, even-handed enforcement of
our laws and expeditious handling of applications and permits will be ongoing
objectives of the INS.'' McNary may face tough questions in the confirmation
hearings on his inexperience in immigration matters. Sen. Paul Simon, D-Ill., a
member of the Senate's subcommittee on immigration, had suggested that Bush
appoint an Asian-American or Mexican-American to the job.  But McNary said he
didn't think his lack of experience would hinder his confirmation.  ''I don't
think so,'' McNary said, ''although anything may be a stumbling block.'' McNary
said he talked briefly with Simon at a recent meeting of the Regional Commerce
and Growth Association, but he declined to say what the content of the
conversation had been.  Asked how he would prepare for the hearings, McNary
said, ''I have done some reading on my own to this point and I intend to meet
with experts in the Justice Department and be up to speed on current issues''
and questions he might face in the hearings.  McNary, twice a candidate for
governor and once a candidate for the U.S.  Senate, said his acceptance of the
nomination meant that he was, in effect, giving up political ambition in
Missouri.  He said he would have more comments about that issue later.  If
Milford is chosen as McNary's successor, he will serve as executive at least
until the end of next year.  Milford has said he would be a candidate for County
Executive in the 1990 elections.; Councilman William E. Whitehall of
Chesterfield, r-7th District, has also said he is interested in running.  On the
Democratic side, St. Louis County Prosecutor George R. ''Buzz'' Westfall and
Mayor James J. Eagan of Florissant have said they may run.

LOAD-DATE: October 25, 1993

LANGUAGE: English

GRAPHIC: Photo; PHOTO (COLOR) HEADSHOT of Gene McNary...Close scrutiny
expected... PHOTO HEADSHOT of H.C. Milford...Seen as probable successor...

                  Copyright 1989 St. Louis Post-Dispatch, Inc.


                              89 of 268 DOCUMENTS

                       St. Louis Post-Dispatch (Missouri)

                September 21, 1989, THURSDAY, FIVE STAR Edition

SENATE PANEL TO HOLD MCNARY HEARING OCT. 3

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 9A

LENGTH: 227 words


WASHINGTON: The Senate Judiciary Committee's confirmation hearing on St.
LouisCounty Executive Gene McNary will be held on Oct. 3, the committee
announced Wednesday.  McNary has been nominated by President George Bush to head
the Immigration and Naturalization Service. The hearing originally had been
scheduled for next Monday. It was postponed after Sen. Paul Simon, D-Ill., cited
a scheduling conflict and officials of various civil rights groups asked for
more time to look into McNary's qualifications.  Some of the groups also had
asked to testify at the hearing. But Jerry Tinker, staff director of the panel's
subcommittee on immigration, said the schedule would not allow time for that.
Tinker said the groups could submit written testimony for the record if they
wished.  Post-Dispatch Washington Bureau

LOAD-DATE: October 25, 1993

LANGUAGE: English

                  Copyright 1989 St. Louis Post-Dispatch, Inc.


                              90 of 268 DOCUMENTS

                       St. Louis Post-Dispatch (Missouri)

                  November 6, 1990, TUESDAY, FIVE STAR Edition

GERMAN PLEADS GUILTY OF THEFT IN LADUE AND GETS SENT HOME

BYLINE: William C. Lhotka Of the Post-Dispatch Staff

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 3A

LENGTH: 454 words


After spending six months in jail, a 20-year-old German man pleaded guilty
Monday of stealing money and heirlooms from a house in Ladue and was turned over
to immigration officials for a one-way trip home.  In exchange for the guilty
plea, Mathias Huth was sentenced in St. Louis County Circuit Court to six months
in jail - the time he had already served. Judge William M. Corrigan imposed the
sentence.  Huth's German citizenship posed problems for both the prosecution and
defense since his arrest by Ladue police May 1. Detective Bill Baker said Huth
had admitted thefts from the home of Frederick Atwood of the 100 block of South
Price Road.  Huth, who is from Karlsruhe in southwestern Germany, arrived in
Missouri earlier this year to visit a friend stationed at Fort Leonard Wood.
Police said he began dating an employee of Atwood, and, while visiting the
employee at Atwood's home, he stole money, a gold pen knife, a gold pocket
watch, a $20 gold piece and two gold rings between Feb. 24 and April 18.  Huth's
attorney, Robert Kerr, sought Huth's release on his recognizance because Huth
had no record. But prosecutors Daniel Holmes and Kathi Alizadeh objected because
they said Huth was likely to flee to Germany without standing trial.  Instead,
the state offered Huth his release from jail and probation if he agreed to make
restitution and then go home.  Kerr said Huth claimed his parents had sent cash
for restitution to the friend at the Army base, but the man insisted he never
got it. So Huth spent six months in jail before the agreement was worked out,
which was the guilty plea in exchange for time served and his return to Germany.

LOAD-DATE: October 18, 1993

LANGUAGE: English

                  Copyright 1990 St. Louis Post-Dispatch, Inc.


                              91 of 268 DOCUMENTS

                       St. Louis Post-Dispatch (Missouri)

               November 26, 1989, SUNDAY, LATE FIVE STAR Edition

NEWLY LEGAL ALIENS NOW LIVE WITHOUT FEAR, SETTLE INTO JOBS

BYLINE: Ann Schottman Knol Post-Dispatch Special Correspondent

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 8A

LENGTH: 1920 words


COBDEN, Ill. - Illegal aliens who gained legal U.S. residency status under
theso-called amnesty program have found new opportunity and freedom from fear of
deportation, according to migrant workers in the program.  Some migrant workers
who have residency documents are beginning to ''settle out,'' quitting the
relentless seasonal journeys across the country to stay in one place and enjoy
the security of one home, one job, one school for the children.  But some people
who work with the migrants say that even though fresh opportunities are open,
many newly documented workers will continue traveling in the migrant stream
because that's the only job they know.  And some experts say that despite tough
new sanctions against employers who hire undocumented workers, the grim economic
conditions in Mexico will continue to drive illegal aliens into this country to
try to find work - just to keep from starving.  Migrant worker Juan Manual, who
has his temporary residency papers, said through an interpreter, ''The best
thing is you can cross the border freely and just find a job. You can learn the
language and get better jobs.'' Legal residence means ''people feel more secure,
they have more choices to get this job, or the other, or the other,'' said Angie
Gomez, a social worker at the Jackson-Union Migrant camp at Cobden.  ti G
Migrant worker Miguel Carmona, who was staying in Southern Illinois past the
close of apple-picking season to pick turnips, said through an interpreter that
his residency papers meant he could work freely and not have to hide from
immigration officials. ''At least I can sleep better,'' he added.  aieou The
amnesty law had two aims: to stem the tide of illegal aliens across the
1,970-mile border the United States shares with Mexico and to legitimize the
illegal aliens who were already part of the fabric of the U.S.  work force.
Immigration officials say the program is a success on both counts.  To keep new
illegal aliens from entering the country or getting work here, the number of
immigration investigators was almost doubled, to 1,500 now from 800 in 1986.
Employers who hire undocumented workers face stiff fines and even jail terms.
Because of those tough new enforcement measures, the number of arrests of
illegal aliens crossing the Mexican border into the United States was down to
854,000 in the fiscal year that ended Sept. 30 from 1.6 million in the year that
ended Sept. 30, 1986, the year before the amnesty program started, according to
Duke Austin of the U.S. Immigration and Naturalization Service.  Under the
amnesty program, 3.1 million illegal aliens applied for legal status, which was
2.6 million more than federal officials expected would apply, Austin said.
Agricultural workers had to apply for amnesty by Nov.  30, 1988, and other
illegal aliens had to apply by May 4, 1988.  Austin said, ''We legalized more
people in that program than in all other amnesty programs in all other nations
combined. It was certainly numerically a success.'' However, Garth Gillan of
Cobden, a deacon with the Catholic Diocese of Belleville who works with the
migrants, says he has seen estimates in the Catholic press that more than 50
percent of those eligible did not apply, perhaps because of fear.  Bill Garner,
the Latin American specialist in the political science department at Southern
Illinois University at Carbondale, said he also had heard that many who were
eligible did not apply because of a ''long, long history of bitterness and
distrust of the U.S. government by Mexican labor.'' Sei Austin denies that large
numbers of qualified illegal aliens failed to apply, although he says a few may
have failed to apply out of ignorance or ''lack of sophistication.'' -fNdt ba
Gomez said for those who did qualify, legal residency status in the United
States means ''they don't have to be invisible. Before, if they got hurt while
they were working, they wouldn't even say, because they were afraid. Now at
least they can get medical attention.'' But for many, ''language is still a big
barrier'' to a better life, Gomez said.  Manual is one of the newly documented
workers who is looking for a way past that barrier. Together with his brother,
sister, and brother-in-law, he is staying on at the migrant camp past
apple-picking season to attend English classes through the Illinois Migrant
Council, a non-profit group set up to help the migrants.  ad Edgar Tate, a
counselor for the Illinois Migrant Council, said he was working with Manual's
family in an attempt to help them ''settle out'' by helping them learn English
and find housing and employment.  For example, Manual's sister, Tina Alvarez -
who has done field work in Texas and fruit-packing work in Cobden - may have a
job in a bakery in Carbondale waiting for her if she masters enough English in
the 13-week course she is taking.  More migrants are attempting to settle out by
buying ''small parcels of land, one or two acres with a trailer,'' Tate said.
Those who settle out can escape the hot, heavy work involved in migrant labor,
as well as the poor housing, long working hours and poor living and health
conditions, Tate said.  ah Still, a few migrant workers Tate or other counselors
help to settle out go back to migrant work, which can pay $80 or even more on a
good day or as low as minimum wage with a sparse crop.  ''Sometimes it does
happen that they go back to that work, and that's heartbreaking,'' Tate said.
''We say that 'the fields called them,' and sometimes that's just what it is.
That's the best thing they know how to do, what they feel most comfortable
with.'' bt But even the migrant stream represents a bright new hope for some who
are starving in Mexico.  Latin American specialist Garner said Mexican workers
fighting for jobs were grateful to be employed in sweatshop factories along the
Mexican border that pay the equivalent of 40 to 60 cents an hour.  The nation
has suffered from high inflation. For 40 years, 12.5 Mexican pesos equaled one
U.S. dollar, but now the exchange rate is about 2,700 pesos to the dollar, he
said.  Garner says Mexico's economic woes are the result of the country's $90
billion international debt, its population explosion, and, especially, its
leaders who tied the country's welfare solely to oil, which backfired when oil
prices plummeted in the early 1980s.  Mexicans are now starving in the streets,
Garner said.  ''I've seen it - it's awful,'' he said. ''I've seen pregnant women
begging in front of hotels, and you wonder how they've got the strength to give
birth because there's no meat on their bones. I've seen babies walking around
with distended bellies, defecating worms. The infant mortality rate is 40
percent in some neighborhoods in Guadalajara.'' Garner, Gillan, Austin of the
INS, Gomez, and the migrant workers themselves all predicted that illegal aliens
would continue to try to slip across the border, despite stronger security.
Austin said that for the first time since 1986, when the amnesty program was
passed, the rate of illegal aliens arrested in the last four months of the
budget year was higher than during the same period a year earlier.  oti INS
officials hope new difficulties in finding work in the United States discourage
many illegal aliens, even though an industry is springing up to supply
fraudulent residency documents.  Gomez said workers will ''still come without
documents, as long as they can make it, as long as they can cross the water.
They're just coming through to survive.''

LOAD-DATE: October 27, 1993

LANGUAGE: English

GRAPHIC: Map; MAP: Post-Dispatch Map of Illinois showing site of Cobden

                  Copyright 1989 St. Louis Post-Dispatch, Inc.


                              92 of 268 DOCUMENTS

                       St. Louis Post-Dispatch (Missouri)

                February 9, 1992, SUNDAY, LATE FIVE STAR Edition

PLANE CRASH INVESTIGATORS HOPE RECORDER IS INTACT

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 9A

LENGTH: 549 words


Investigators confirmed Saturday that they had found the cockpit voice recorder
of a military transport plane that crashed at Evansville, Ind., killing 16
people, but said they didn't know if the badly burned device was usable.  Capt.
Phil Miller of the Kentucky Air National Guard said the recorder was being sent
to the National Transportation Safety Board laboratories in Washington for
analysis.  AP MEXICAN BORDER U.S. Will Hire More Patrol Officers The Justice
Department will hire 300 Border Patrol officers and 200 immigration agents to
tighten border security and investigate crimes by illegal aliens, officials said
Saturday in Washington.  The new uniformed Border Patrol agents will be deployed
along the U.S.-Mexico border in Texas and California to help stop illegal aliens
and drug smuggling, the Justice Department said.  The 200 new Immigration and
Naturalization Service investigators will be assigned to find and deport aliens
and to work with local police in cities that have a large amount of violent
crime attributed to drug gangs.  AP CONGRESS Park Perks Ended By Interior Dept.
The Interior Department has ended a longstanding perk for members of Congress
and other senior government officials: No longer will they be welcome for VIP
lodging at some of the most scenic national parks.  On Friday in Washington,
Secretary of the Interior Manuel Lujan Jr. ordered that four vacation hideaways
be off limits for personal cut-rate vacations by senior federal officials,
judges and members of Congress.  The order affects VIP retreats at the Grand
Teton National Park in Wyoming, the Shenandoah National Park in Virginia, the
Cape Hatteras National Seashore in North Carolina and the Virgin Islands
National Park in the Caribbean. AP FATAL VISION CASE Defense Says Prosecutor Hid
Evidence Lawyers for a former Army doctor convicted in the 1970 killings of his
pregnant wife and two daughters argue that he deserves a new trial because
prosecutors hid evidence that could have helped clear him.  On Wednesday,
Jeffrey R. MacDonald's attorneys told a three-judge panel of the 4th U.S.
Circuit Court of Appeals, based in Richmond, Va., that they recently discovered
that a government expert had identified 22-inch blond wig fibers at the crime
scene.  The lawyers, Alan M. Dershowitz and Harvey A. Silverglate, contended
that the fibers corroborate MacDonald's account that intruders killed his
family.  MacDonald said that one of the intruders was a young woman in a long,
blond wig.  AP WORLD ALGERIA Police Battle With Muslim Protesters Muslim
fundamentalists and security forces battled in the streets of several Algerian
cities Saturday, and authorities arrested a leading fundamentalist cleric in
Algiers, the capital.  Witnesses said fundamentalists protesting a nearly
monthlong crackdown by the military-backed government had erected barricades of
tires, cement and stone and set fires in several neighborhoods of the capital.
Police and troops responded with tear gas and bullets.  Late Friday authorities
arrested Abdelkader Moghni, imam of the El Sunna mosque in Bab el-Oued, a
fundamentalist stronghold, his family said. The mosque was one of two in Algiers
that served as a center for fundamentalist political activity. Such activity has
been banned.  AP

LOAD-DATE: October 11, 1993

LANGUAGE: English

                  Copyright 1992 St. Louis Post-Dispatch, Inc.


                              93 of 268 DOCUMENTS

                       St. Louis Post-Dispatch (Missouri)

                  January 25, 1991, FRIDAY, FIVE STAR Edition

FEARING TERROR, NATIONS EXPEL IRAQI DIPLOMATS

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 17A

LENGTH: 419 words


BONN, Germany - Germany, Italy and the Philippines issued orders Thursday
expelling Iraqi diplomats and illegal immigrants - to prevent them from ordering
or carrying out terrorist acts.  Germany ordered 28 Iraqi diplomats out within
four days. The diplomats had been employed at the Iraqi Embassy in Bonn and at
Iraq's mission in Berlin, the Foreign Ministry said.  Government officials said
there was ''very great suspicion'' that some of the diplomats controlled
extremist groups in Germany and could direct terrorist activities.  Hanns
Schumacher, a Foreign Ministry spokesman, said that, after the 28 Iraqis had
gone, only the ambassador and three diplomats would be left in the embassy in
Bonn. Germany recalled its diplomats from Baghdad on Jan. 8 after ordering seven
Iraqi diplomats to leave Germany without formally expelling them.  In Rome,
Italy ordered the deportation of more than 700 illegal immigrants.  Police
staged a dawn raid on a former bakery where more than 2,000 immigrants had
sought temporary shelter and took 1 ,600 - mostly Pakistanis and North Africans
- away for questioning. More than 700 did not have residence permits and were
served with deportation orders, police said.  City council officials said the
operation was in line with measures taken to tighten controls on foreigners
since the start of the Persian Gulf War.  In Manila, the Philippines ordered out
of the country an Iraqi diplomat that authorities have linked to a bomb attempt
against a U.S. government library. The government said it was hunting seven Arab
urban guerrillas. Iraqi First Secretary Muwafak al-Ani denied involvement in the
Manila bombing incident and said before boarding a plane bound for Malaysia that
he was returning to Baghdad to join the war against the United States.  Ani, who
had been in the country for 18 months, is one of three Iraqis ordered expelled
by the Philippines for purported involvement in Saturday's bomb attempt on the
Thomas Jefferson Library. An Iraqi was killed and another injured in the blast.
The two others, Hisham Abdul-Sattar, son of Iraq's ambassador to Somalia, and
Abdul-Kadhim Saad, are to be deported Friday, officials said.  Meanwhile, Lt.
Gen. Rodolfo Biazon, chief of the armed forces, said the armed forces were
looking for seven members of two Arab guerrilla groups thought to be in the
Philippines.  ''These are suspicious groups that entered the country during the
last four months,'' Biazon said. ''We have at least three confirmed names.''

LOAD-DATE: October 8, 1993

LANGUAGE: English

GRAPHIC: Graphic; LOGO...Gulf War

                  Copyright 1991 St. Louis Post-Dispatch, Inc.


                              94 of 268 DOCUMENTS

                       St. Louis Post-Dispatch (Missouri)

                    July 9, 1991, TUESDAY, FIVE STAR Edition

WORLD FRANCE PREMIER TAKES STAND ON IMMIGRANTS

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 8A

LENGTH: 661 words


French Premier Edith Cresson, taking a hard line for the first time on
illegalimmigration, raised the possibility Monday of mass expulsions.
Conservative politicians, who have accused the Socialists of tolerating huge
illegal immigration, said Socialist Cresson finally had seen the light.  But SOS
Racism, a group that works closely with immigrants, said Cresson was using a
''dangerous vocabulary'' that would not help solve underlying social problems.
In two interviews, Cresson said that French institutions were ''saturated'' and
that France needed tougher enforcement of laws restricting immigration.  She
said she envisaged using special planes to send illegal immigrants back home.
AP SOUTH AFRICA Country Signs Nuclear Arms Treaty In a step to end its political
isolation, South Africa signed an international treaty Monday banning member
nations from building or acquiring nuclear weapons.  Foreign Affairs Minister
Pik Botha signed the 1970 Treaty on the Non-Proliferation of Nuclear Weapons,
bringing the number of signatories to 142.  The move ended years of South
African resistance to the treaty, which also commits nations to open nuclear
facilities to periodic inspection.  AP AUSTRIA Official Admits Nation's Nazi
Past Chancell or Franz Vranitzky made one of the most explicit acknowledgments
yet of Austrian complicity in the crimes of the Nazis, telling his compatriots
Monday that they could not ignore moral responsibility for their past.  ''We
acknowledge all the facts of our history and the deeds of all sections of our
people, the good as well as the evil,'' the Social Democratic chancellor told
Parliament. Vranitzky said individual Austrian politicians had often
acknowledged guilt for the country's past, but he wished to do so explicitly in
the name of the government ''as our contribution to the new political culture in
Europe.'' Reuters CHOLERA EPIDEMIC Agency Pledges Aid, Outlines Effort The Pan
American Health Organization announced an ambitious $610.5 million effort Monday
to control Latin America's worst outbreak of cholera in decades.  Dr. Carlyle
Guerra de Macedo, director of the hemispheric health organization since 1983,
outlined the program in Miami at the first major international conference on
controlling the cholera outbreak.  The epidemic began in Peru in January. More
than 250,000 cases have been reported in six Latin countries since then, making
this the biggest cholera epidemic in the world since a 1971 outbreak in
Portugal, Spain and Italy.  Reuters PHILIPPINES Death Toll From Volcano Rises By
3 Philippine police have discovered the bodies of two men and a woman in three
ash-covered villages, raising the death toll from the eruptions of Mount
Pinatubo to 341, officials said Monday.  The volcano shuddered from a mild
eruption early Monday, raining ash on three towns, the Philippine Institute of
Volcanology and Seismology reported.  A search team discovered the bodies Sunday
inside homes that had collapsed under the weight of volcanic ash in three Subic
villages, police said.  AP NATION AIDS DEATH Vandals Desecrate Teen's Grave
Vandals again desecrated the grave of Ryan White, the young AIDS patient who
gained worldwide recognition by fighting discrimination against those with the
disease, Indianapolis police say.  White's 6-foot-8-inch gravestone at Cicero
Cemetery was toppled sometime between Friday night and Saturday morning. It was
the fourth time the 4,000-pound memorial had been knocked down, authorities
said.  White, a hemophiliac who contracted AIDS from blood transfusions, fought
a legal battle for five years against school officials who barred him from
attending classes, saying he posed a risk to other students. He won that fight,
which became the basis of a television movie about his life.  White, 18, died
April 8, 1990. Among those attending his funeral were Barbara Bush, entertainers
Elton John and Michael Jackson and talk show host Phil Donahue.  AP

LOAD-DATE: October 14, 1993

LANGUAGE: English

GRAPHIC: Photo; Photo Headshot ... Franz Vranitzky Photo by AP ... Gored ... A
Swede, Urban Troll, clinging to a bull Monday in Pamplona, Spain. Troll, 23, and
a Norwegian woman were gored during the annual running of the bulls.

                  Copyright 1991 St. Louis Post-Dispatch, Inc.


                              95 of 268 DOCUMENTS

                       St. Louis Post-Dispatch (Missouri)

                  January 27, 1989, FRIDAY, THREE STAR Edition

GROUP URGES U.S. BORDER ENTRY FEE

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 13A

LENGTH: 494 words


WASHINGTON (AP) - A private group lobbying to stem the flow of illegal
immigrants into the United States proposed on Thursday a fee of $2 to enter the
country. It suggested using the money to tighten border security.  The
Federation for American Immigration Reform said the fee could finance
intensified border patrols and the replacement of 28 miles of metal fence that
has become so dilapidated it cannot ''withstand the onslaught of humanity.''
''Everyone has the right to lock his own back door,'' the group said in a
report. ''Those who ignore the lock and enter without permission are guilty of
breaking and entering.'' It proposed building 25 miles of sunken concrete fences
in San Diego and El Paso, Texas, where the Border Patrol makes 70 percent of its
1 million arrests annually.  The user fee would provide $200 million to buil d
the new barriers plus $200 million for more Border Patrol agents and
surveillance equipment in isolated areas, said Patrick Burns, the group's
assistant director.  The non-profit group's proposals, called ''Ten Steps to
Securing America's Borders,'' went substantially beyond plans by the Immigration
and Naturalization Service to build a $2 million, 4-mile-long, 14-foot-wide
ditch along the San Diego border. The ditch, intended to stop vehicular traffic,
is expected to be completed by the fall.  The 28 miles of metal fence along the
southern border is so dilapidated that it ''could not keep a small child out of
a basketball court,'' said Patrick Burns, the group's assistant director. Burns
said that ''anyone who can't afford two bucks shouldn't be crossing an
international boundary.'' He pointed out that people flying into the United
States already pay a $10 fee.  The report was written with the cooperation of
the immigration service, which said through spokesman Verne Jervis that it was
''studying the study.''

LOAD-DATE: October 23, 1993

LANGUAGE: English

                  Copyright 1989 St. Louis Post-Dispatch, Inc.


                              96 of 268 DOCUMENTS

                       St. Louis Post-Dispatch (Missouri)

                 February 2, 1989, THURSDAY, FIVE STAR Edition

NEW MAGINOT LINE

SECTION: EDITORIAL; Pg. 2B

LENGTH: 254 words


Waging war against drugs and illegal immigration with a four-mile drainage ditch
on the U.S.-Mexican border is an act of desperation, with an improbable chance
of success.  History suggests that fortified barriers seldom stop invading
armies, or discourage determined people in pursuit of economic or political
freedom. This version of a Maginot Line will not deter desperate people who
think a better life awaits them. The only way to tarnish the gilded dreams about
the United States is to take away the jobs that attract economic refugees.
Continued immigration reform and enforcement that put a premium on punishing
exploitive employers in inner cities, on the farm or the forests attacks part of
the problem.  On a higher political plane, the U.S. and Mexico should explore
investment and free-trade agreements that create job opportunities in Mexico.
Both countries could benefit.  Securing our borders with a ''buried Berlin
Wall'' is not what this country is all about.

LOAD-DATE: October 23, 1993

LANGUAGE: English

                  Copyright 1989 St. Louis Post-Dispatch, Inc.


                              97 of 268 DOCUMENTS

                       St. Louis Post-Dispatch (Missouri)

                 February 28, 1989, TUESDAY, FIVE STAR Edition

79 PASSENGERS HELD AS ALIENS

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 12B

LENGTH: 360 words


ATLANTA (AP) - Seventy-nine people suspected of being illegal aliens were among
the 179 passengers aboard an Eastern Airlines flight from Los Angeles to New
York that stopped Monday in Atlanta, federal agents said.  Immigration and
Naturalization Service agents received a tip from sources at Hartsfield Atlanta
International Airport that aliens might be on board, said Tom Thomas, a
spokesman for the immigration service. The agents boarded the plane shortly
after its arrival and arrested the suspects, Thomas said.  ''We suspect that a
smuggler assists them in boarding the aircraft in Los Angeles,'' Thomas said,
adding that the aliens probably are greeted in New York by relatives and another
smuggler.  Thomas said the agency's sources had indicated that aliens' use of
the same flight was ''a regular occurrence'' for the past 30 days, and he
estimated that thousands of illegal aliens had flown across the country on
Eastern airliners.  ''It appears at this point from our sources that it's almost
a daily occurrence,'' he said.  He said he did not know how the aliens had got
into the country.  FOLLOWING TEXT APPEARS IN 3* EDITION Thirty-nine of the
suspects were from Mexico, 22 from Guatemala, 13 from the Dominican Republic,
three from El Salvador and one each from Honduras and Ecuador. They were being
transferred to immigration service processing centers in Florida and Texas for
deportation, he said.

LOAD-DATE: October 23, 1993

LANGUAGE: English

                  Copyright 1989 St. Louis Post-Dispatch, Inc.


                              98 of 268 DOCUMENTS

                       St. Louis Post-Dispatch (Missouri)

                   March 2, 1989, THURSDAY, FIVE STAR Edition

ALIENS ARRESTED ON FLIGHT TO NEW YORK

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 16A

LENGTH: 200 words


CHARLOTTE, N.C. (AP) - Immigration agents Wednesday took into custody 27
suspected illegal aliens on a flight bound for New York.  Immigration and
Naturalization Service officials in Atlanta, whose jurisdiction includes
Charlotte, said the 27 were on a Piedmont Airlines flight from Phoenix, Ariz.
The aliens, from Mexico, Brazil and El Salvador, were taken off the plane at a
stopover in Charlotte at 6:40 a.m., the Immigration Service said. They had flown
to Phoenix on an America West Airlines flight from Los Angeles late Tuesday,
officials said.  On Monday, Immigration Service agents apprehended 79 suspected
illegal aliens aboard an Eastern Airlines that stops in Atlanta en route from
Los Angeles to New York. Sixty-nine more aliens were taken into custody in Los
Angeles on Monday night as they attempted to board the same flight.

LOAD-DATE: October 23, 1993

LANGUAGE: English

                  Copyright 1989 St. Louis Post-Dispatch, Inc.


                              99 of 268 DOCUMENTS

                       St. Louis Post-Dispatch (Missouri)

                   March 28, 1989, TUESDAY, FIVE STAR Edition

22 ILLEGAL ALIENS HELD HERE MAY BE DEPORTED

BYLINE: George Landau Of the Post-Dispatch Staff

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 12A

LENGTH: 520 words


Twenty-two illegal aliens are in custody awaiting potential deportation after
being taken into custody Monday in the St. Louis area.  One van carrying Costa
Ricans broke down in Sunset Hills, and another van, carrying Ecuadorans, was
stopped by the Missouri Highway Patrol near Eureka, officials said.  Chester
Moyer, the officer in charge of the Immigration and Naturalization Service
office in St. Louis, said the aliens would be held at jails in the area while
they await processing and possible deportation.  Moyer said investigators were
unsure if the two vans had been traveling together. The first was discovered
around 4 a.m. in Sunset Hills, at a service station on Lindbergh Boulevard near
Interstate 44.  A Sunset Hills police officer spotted the van, which apparently
had been having mechanical trouble. When the officer learned that the van's 11
occupants were not U.S. citizens, he took them into custody and called the
immigration service, Moyer said.  The Highway Patrol stopped the second van
about 8:30 a.m. on Interstate 44, possibly because the van fit a profile of
vehicles used by smugglers of illegal drugs and aliens, Moyer said.  The aliens
- 19 men, one woman, a teen-age girl and a teen-age boy - were interviewed
Monday afternoon at the immigration service downtown, Moyer said.  Officials
were checking one man's claim to be a U.S. citizen.  Apart from being tired and
hungry, all apparently were in good health, Moyer said. ''They were exhausted,''
he said. ''As soon as they got here, they all just fell asleep on the chairs.''
Both groups of aliens told immigration officials that they had entered the
United States from Mexico. Where and how they crossed the border is unclear,
Moyer said.  The aliens in one group told officials their journey had begun in
Costa Rica; the others said Ecuador.  The arrests Monday constituted the largest
incident involving aliens in the area since August, when police from Fairview
Heights stopped a truck carrying 33 illegal aliens from Guatemala.

LOAD-DATE: October 23, 1993

LANGUAGE: English

                  Copyright 1989 St. Louis Post-Dispatch, Inc.


                              100 of 268 DOCUMENTS

                       St. Louis Post-Dispatch (Missouri)

                  April 22, 1989, SATURDAY, THREE STAR Edition

BURGLARY SUSPECT AND SON ARE ILLEGAL ALIENS

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 4B

LENGTH: 214 words


A woman charged in the burglary of a house in Frontenac and her son, who
accompanied her to the house, have been identified as illegal aliens.  The woman
was identified as Teresa Wrazen, 45; she and her son, Jan Baranowski, have been
involved in deportation proceedings in Chicago, said Andy Nutis, assistant
officer in charge of the St. Louis Office of Immigration and Naturalization
Service. Wrazen was in the St. Louis County Jail in Clayton on Friday in lieu of
$35,000 bond. Baranowski, who is in his early 20s, is in the custody of
immigration officials in St. Louis, Nutis said.  Baranowski has about 14
aliases. He has been arrested about a dozen times nationwide on charges of
burglary and theft, Nutis said.  Federal and local officials said the two came
to the United States from Poland. They are accused of preying on older residents
or people who leave their homes unlocked. The Frontenac burglary took place
Wednesday.

LOAD-DATE: October 22, 1993

LANGUAGE: English

                  Copyright 1989 St. Louis Post-Dispatch, Inc.


                              101 of 268 DOCUMENTS

                       St. Louis Post-Dispatch (Missouri)

                     May 1, 1989, MONDAY, FIVE STAR Edition

U.S. AND MEXICAN LAWMAKERS CALL FOR ACTION ON DEBT WOES

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 4B

LENGTH: 360 words


IXTAPA, Mexico - U.S. and Mexican lawmakers are calling for rapid action to
resolve the Third World's debt problems.  In a 12-point communique, the
lawmakers also endorsed calls for increased anti-drug efforts and cooperation on
immigration problems along the 2, 000-mile U.S.-Mexican border. The two days of
talks were held at the 29th Mexico-United States Inter-Parliamentary meeting,
which took place in Ixtapa, a Pacific beach resort. The communique was issued
after the talks concluded late Saturday.  Members of the U.S. Congress said
Mexico should be rewarded for its efforts to stabilize its economy and reduce
its $100 billion foreign debt.  ''No nation can support an annual transfer of
resources abroad of 5 percent of its (gross national product for very long,''
Sen. Christopher J. Dodd, D-Conn., told reporters. ''The time has come to reward
this effort.'' The joint communique called on debtors and creditors to work to
ease the $1.3 trillion debt burden of the Third World nations.  U.S. lawmakers
praised Mexico's recent efforts to fight the international drug trade,
spearheaded by the arrest last month of Miguel Angel Felix Gallardo, one of
Latin America's top drug barons.  Twenty-one members of the U.S. Congress and 36
members of Mexico's Congress took part in the talks on debt, drugs, illegal
immigration and Central America.  The United States was strongly criticized at
the meeting for its immigration laws. Mexican legislators said the laws have
resulted only in more illegal border crossings and abuse of Mexican citizens.

LOAD-DATE: October 22, 1993

LANGUAGE: English

                  Copyright 1989 St. Louis Post-Dispatch, Inc.


                              102 of 268 DOCUMENTS

                       St. Louis Post-Dispatch (Missouri)

                    May 19, 1989, FRIDAY, FIVE STAR Edition

MCNARY JUST MIGHT GET IT HIS WAY AFTER ALL

BYLINE: Bill McClellan

SECTION: EVERYDAY MAGAZINE; Pg. 3E

LENGTH: 1240 words


LET'S LOOK a couple of months into the future. We'll visit the headquarters
ofthe U.S. Immigration and Naturalization Service as it might be if St. Louis
County Executive Gene McNary really becomes its new boss.  As we peek in the
window, we see Chief McNary pacing the floor, but it's a happy pace, an excited
pace. No longer limited by the boundaries of St.  Louis County, McNary now has
the entire world as his stage.  He knows that as head of INS, he has to think
globally. Illegal immigration is a symptom of a disease, not the disease itself.
As long as people need to come to this country to find employment, we will have
illegal immigration.  The solution, then, is to boost the economies of the other
countries. It is to this end that the Chief intends to work. We see him gaze
thoughtfully at a map of Central America.  ''You know, there are just too many
countries down there,'' he says to himself. ''No wonder their economies are in
bad shape. Maybe I could set up a board of freeholders. 'Holders de Libre,' I'll
call the board. No, no, that won't do.'' He rushes to his intercom and calls his
aide: ''Pam, how do you say 'Holders' in Spanish?'' ''I'll look it up, Chief.''
He turns back to the map.  ''Now we're getting somewhere. We take all these
little countries, and consolidate them. We do to Central America what I wanted
to do to St. Louis County. I'll turn Central America into a boom town, and then
we'll see what all the naysayers back home say!'' Then it's back to the map. He
gazes fondly at South America.  ''I've got to visit Brazil,'' he says to
himself. ''I love the way they're de-foresting the Amazon. It reminds me of the
time I wanted to cut down the trees on Elm Avenue. Those South American
politicians know how to do things!  They don't let a few tree-huggers stop a
road.'' He suddenly snaps his fingers. A new idea has popped into this head. He
rushes to the intercom again.  ''Pam, how do you say 'Chief' in Spanish?''
''That one, I knew you'd ask. I already looked it up: 'Jefe.' '' ''Jefe?''
''Right. Jefe.'' He sits down, puts his feet on the desk and daydreams. Just as
John Kennedy went to Berlin, and announced, ''Ich bin ein Berliner,'' perhaps
he, McNary, could go to some Central American country and announce, ''Ich bin
ein Jefe.'' He goes back to the intercom.  ''Pam, how do you say 'Ich bin ein'
in Spanish?'' ''I'll look it up, Jefe.'' His reveries are interrupted by a phone
call. An immigration agent is calling from the Arizona-Mexico border. He's
briefing Jefe about a problem.  Every day, the border guards catch hundreds of
people who are trying to cross the border. The illegals, some from Central
America, some from southern and central Mexico, are transported back across the
Mexican border.  Partially because they are hundreds of miles from home and
partially because they're determined to cross the border, most of the would-be
immigrants simply wait until dark and then try again.  ''Maybe if we could hold
these people for a day or two, we could encourage them to go back home. Maybe
arrange transportation or something. But we have no place to hold them,'' the
agent says.  ''How 'bout the local jail?'' McNary asks.  ''Not possible, chief.
I'm calling from Nogales, Ariz. This is a small town. The local police don't
have the space,'' the agent explains.  ''I'll get back to you,'' McNary says.
He hangs up the phone, and resumes thinking. Suddenly, he slaps his forehead,
grabs the phone and calls the agent in Nogales.  ''I know what we're going to
do,'' McNary says. ''We'll build a domed stadium. We'll be able to get 70,000 in
it.'' The agent's gasp is audible, even to us.  ''A domed stadium, chief?''
''Call me 'Jefe.' '' ''A domed stadium, Jefe?'' ''One that will seat 70,000.''
''Jefe, we need space, but not that much space.'' ''We're not talking about just
using it for illegal aliens. We might get the Final Four. The Pope could come.
I'm thinking retractable seats, so maybe we could even get a hockey team.''
''Hockey, Jefe?'' An edge creeps into McNary's voice.  ''We have a problem with
the downtown interests in Nogales? Somebody is going to want this thing built
away from the border?'' ''No, Jefe. I was thinking about hockey. The people here
have never seen ice.'' ''Let's put the domed stadium on the backburner, then,''
McNary says.  ''Maybe we can hold the illegals for a day or so on the golf
course.'' ''The golf course, Jefe?'' ''I've always wanted to build one,'' McNary
mutters. ''I'll get back to you.''

LOAD-DATE: October 22, 1993

LANGUAGE: English

                  Copyright 1989 St. Louis Post-Dispatch, Inc.


                              103 of 268 DOCUMENTS

                       St. Louis Post-Dispatch (Missouri)

                    May 28, 1989, SUNDAY, THREE STAR Edition

TEXAS BORDER OPERATION WINDS DOWN

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 11C

LENGTH: 374 words


HOUSTON - The Immigration and Naturalization Service has begun to reassign
theextra border patrol agents and administrative personnel who were sent to
Brownsville, Texas, in February to stem a surge of illegal aliens.  James L.
Buck, deputy administrator of the immigration agency, traveled to that border
city Thursday to announce the shift. He called the operation a success because,
he said, the number of illegal aliens requesting political asylum had dropped
sharply since it went into effect.  Advocates for illegal aliens disagreed with
Buck's assessment, saying that the plan has not stopped refugees from crossing
the border.  In February and March, Buck said, 2,400 refugees were in an agency
detention camp in Port Isabel, Texas, 25 miles north of Brownsville. On Friday,
the camp held 1,400, he said.  ''We sent a message that you can't come across
our borders at will,'' he said in a telephone interview Friday.  Responding to
Buck's announcement, Jonathan Moore, a spokesman for Proyecto Libertad, which
provides legal counseling to refugees, said, ''It's a public-relations
victory.'' Although the number of detainees has dropped since March, Moore said,
it is still at the highest level in nine years.  He said his group had been told
by refugee groups in other parts of the nation that although the number of
applications for political asylum had dropped, the number of people entering the
country illegally had remained constant.  ''If the goal is to prevent Central
Americans from coming to the U.S., it's a failure,'' he said. ''It's been a
success only if you feel that deterring Central Americans from applying for
asylum is a success.''

LOAD-DATE: October 22, 1993

LANGUAGE: English

                  Copyright 1989 St. Louis Post-Dispatch, Inc.


                              104 of 268 DOCUMENTS

                       St. Louis Post-Dispatch (Missouri)

                  January 6, 1990, SATURDAY, FIVE STAR Edition

ILLEGAL ALIEN IS A STRANGER IN STRANGE LAND OF ADULTS

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 3A

LENGTH: 1160 words


MANY THINGS about the boy are uncertain.  He is 12 years old, probably.  He is
from a tiny village on the border of Mexico and Guatemala. Which side of the
border? That's not clear.  His parents are dead, maybe.  But one thing the
adults around this boy know for sure - for the last week, he has spent his days
at a shelter in St. Louis, interrupted by occasional trips to a nondescript
office building at 210 North Tucker Boulevard where he answers questions from
adults he does not know.  The building houses the St. Louis office of the
Immigration and Naturalization Service. The office is at the back of the dull,
tiled lobby, behind a steel door.  When the boy is taken there, he waits in a
small holding cell with a mesh-covered window that he is just barely tall enough
to peek through.  Then he goes into an oak-paneled room with the INS seal on the
wall, and answers questions.  He also cries.  Three times this week, Maria
Prieto has walked the three blocks between her office - the Mexican Consulate at
1015 Olive Street - and the Immigration Service office to talk to the boy. Each
time, sooner or later, he weeps.  It began Dec. 29 as the boy rode in a van
heading east. About three minutes after the van crossed the Poplar Street Bridge
and entered Illinois, a state police officer saw it. It was speeding - doing 58
mph in a 50 mph zone, the officer said - and the driver appeared to hesitate at
the point where Interstates 55 and 64 split. The officer pulled the van over.
Inside, he found 20 people whom he suspected did not belong in this country.
When the Immigration Service took over, they decided these people probably were
illegal aliens, 19 from Guatemala and one - the boy - from Mexico.  ''I've
rarely seen one so young, alone,'' said Andy Nutis, the Immigration Service
investigator who has spent this last week on the case. ''He seems to be the type
that just follows. Kind of a tag-along. I don't know how he got in there with
the group.'' Because the boy said he was from Mexico, Nutis called that
country's consulate. Prieto, a deputy counsel, was assigned the case.  The
others, because the Immigration Service is sure of their home country, have
begun the deportation process. Half were sent to Denver last Thursday to be held
for hearings; the rest will go next week.  Prieto talked to the boy, who had no
identification.  He gave the name of a town were he said he was born, a tiny
village in the state of Chiapas on the Guatemalan border.  He knew he'd done
something wrong, but he wasn't really sure what it was.  Prieto explained that
he had crossed a border illegally.  This did not register.  Then, the boy cried.
He said he wanted to go home.  Prieto sent the information to her country's
state department in Mexico City. They didn't receive it. She called again
Thursday and gave them information over the phone.  Friday, she was still
waiting to hear something from her home office.  She talked to the boy two more
times; each time, the story became more confused.  One day, he said he had been
lying and he was really 17.  Prieto and Nutis looked at the boy. They could see
the baby fat in his face. They knew there were four other young men in the group
who are 17.  They knew he had followed.  ''This is a kid,'' Nutis said. ''He may
not be 12, but he's a lot closer to 12 than he is to 17.'' One day, the boy said
his father was still living. The next day, he said no, both his parents were
dead.  By Friday, he said he was from Guatemala. He said he had come with a
cousin.  Prieto's still not sure which story is correct. But one thing is clear
- the child is alone, without parents, and she is doing what she can to find out
where he belongs.  Prieto, a diplomat for 25 years, has not spent much time
trying to explain to the boy what he did wrong. She is also not surprised at his
complete inability to grasp the concept of a border or immigration law or
international policy.  ''He is illiterate. He is from a very humble, very
ignorant class,'' Prieto said.  ''They don't see the difference between being in
Mexico and being in the United States. They don't see the difference.  ''It's
all just land, and you go where the opportunity is best.'' She has not asked the
boy much about what he is doing or how he made his way here or what he has
thought.  ''There is no point,'' Prieto said. ''He can hardly say anything. He
just cries.''

LOAD-DATE: October 14, 1993

LANGUAGE: English

                  Copyright 1990 St. Louis Post-Dispatch, Inc.


                              105 of 268 DOCUMENTS

                       St. Louis Post-Dispatch (Missouri)

                 February 8, 1990, THURSDAY, FIVE STAR Edition

U.S. FLIP-FLOPS, RESUMES DETAINING ILLEGAL ALIENS@1990, NEW YORK TIMES NEWS;
SERVICE

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 14A

LENGTH: 520 words


BAYVIEW, Texas - The Immigration and Naturalization Service announced Wednesday
that it would again start detaining large numbers of Central Americans who cross
the border illegally to seek political asylum.  The detention policy was
publicly abandoned just two weeks ago when Commissioner Gene McNary of the
immigration service acknowledged that budget restraints were forcing the agency
to release aliens from its detention camp in Bayview.  But after a rebel
offensive in El Salvador late last year, the tide of refugees has grown,
prompting the new immigration policy.  The detention camp, situated near a rural
crossroads about 20 miles northeast of Brownsville, is now prepared to handle up
to 2,500 people, and the population could go to 10,000, McNary said during a
visit.  McNary said he hoped to send a message to people seeking asylum that
they face certain detention under conditions that ''won't be like the Ritz
Carlton.'' The commissioner said about $11 million from the immigration
service's budget had been set aside to finance the new detention effort. He said
more emergency funds would be available later, without specifying an amount.
Robert Rubin, a lawyer with the San Francisco Lawyers' Committee for Urban
Affairs, a group that has contested the immigration detention policies in
several lawsuits, said, ''It is difficult to understand the sudden flip-flop in
position now because everyone has known for several months that the number of
refugees coming from Central America has been increasing in direct response to
the increasing level of violence in El Salvador.'' Rubin added, ''The INS needs
to appreciate that the message of detention does not reach people who are
fleeing violence.'' When the original detention policy was begun almost a year
ago, the immigration service asserted that the great majority of the refugees
were not fleeing political persecution but were seeking economic opportunities,
so that they were frivolous rather than true candidates for asylum.  McNary is
the former St. Louis County executive.

LOAD-DATE: October 14, 1993

LANGUAGE: English

                  Copyright 1990 St. Louis Post-Dispatch, Inc.


                              106 of 268 DOCUMENTS

                       St. Louis Post-Dispatch (Missouri)

                February 22, 1989, WEDNESDAY, FIVE STAR Edition

ALIEN DETENTION CENTER ERECTED IN TEXAS

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 10A

LENGTH: 880 words


Alien Detention Center Erected In Texas (REST) Associated Press BAYVIEW, Texas
(AP) - The Immigration and Naturalization Service erected tents inside a fence
topped with barbed wire Tuesday at a minimum-security prison, under a plan to
speed processing of aliens and to jail those denied political asylum.  The
Catholic bishops of Texas charged that they foresaw ''the creation of the
largest concentration camp on U.S. soil.'' State Department officials began
making recommendations on asylum applications under a plan announced Monday to
deal with an influx of Central American immigrants and to speed up the weeding
out of ''frivolous'' claims.  Under the plan, applicants will get an answer as
early as the same day and will be subject to immediate arrest and detention if
denied asylum.  Before Tuesday, applications could take weeks to process; aliens
were released on their own recognizance while they awaited appeals or
deportation.  The INS began erecting tents at its rural Port Isabel Service
Processing Center in Bayview, just north of Brownsville, in case the number of
detainees at the center exceeded its 1,100-bed capacity. Officials said they
could detain as many as 5,000 in the large circus-size tents within the 315
acres.  A 7-foot fence topped with barbed wire surrounds the compound.  The
Texas Catholic Conference said the new policy ''ignores the facts of life in
Central America that are causing the massive influx of refugees to our
country.'' It added: ''The INS statement speaks of 'frivolous' applications.
Apparently any applications by people who have suffered dreadfully from civil
war are frivolous. Obviously, we are about to witness the creation of the
largest concentration camp on U.S. soil since the incarceration of
Japanese-Americans during World War II - a shameful page in our history.'' The
Catholic church has been helping aliens through several organizations and
operates a shelter for newly arrived Central Americans.  Sen. Lloyd Bentsen,
D-Texas, called the new policy a ''real step forward.'' ''The old policy simply
dumped the Central American immigration problem into the laps of citizens and
local governments in South Texas, and now the INS has stepped forward to take
some responsibility for the immigrants,'' Bentsen said.  Delia Combs, assistant
INS commissioner for refugees, asylum and parole, said Tuesday that two State
Department officers were reviewing the applications and making recommendations
on the refugees' status.  Only immigrants who can show persecution are entitled
to asylum; those who come to better themselves economically can be deported. The
INS maintains that most Central Americans arriving in southern Texas do not
qualify for refugee status.  A group of 45 Central Americans, half of them from
Nicaragua, was under review Tuesday afternoon. An additional 200 people were
waiting to be processed.  INS spokesman Mario Ort iz said 25 of those processed
had been denied political asylum; no one was approved.  The stricter policy
began the same day the INS was allowed to reimpose a policy limiting
asylum-seekers to southern Texas while they await decisions on their cases.  The
INS estimates that 100,000 Central Americans will pass through the Brownsville
area this year. The area is the main entry point for asylum-seekers from that
region.

LOAD-DATE: October 23, 1993

LANGUAGE: English

                  Copyright 1989 St. Louis Post-Dispatch, Inc.


                              107 of 268 DOCUMENTS

                       St. Louis Post-Dispatch (Missouri)

                 June 30, 1991, SUNDAY, EARLY FIVE STAR Edition

CALIFORNIA ASSEMBLY OKS PLAN TO WIPE OUT DEFICIT

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 11D

LENGTH: 743 words


The California Assembly has approved Gov. Pete Wilson's proposals to raise
thestate sales tax and cut welfare benefits to erase a $14.3 billion deficit.
The lawmakers in Sacramento also approved on Friday budget-balancing proposals
to tap state pension funds for more than $1 billion and raise liquor and vehicle
taxes.  The tax measures, most of which would take effect July 15, and the
pension measure were sent to Wilson. Welfare cuts to save an estimated $450
million require a final vote by the state Sen ate, which is expected to approve
them Sunday.  A 2 percent statewide utility tax also awaits final approval
Sunday.  AP SEAT BELTS Surgeon General Urges Enforcement Of Law Surgeon General
Antonia C. Novello has asked the nation's police agencies to step up enforcement
of laws requiring seat belt use, particularly during the Fourth of July holiday
period.  ''After years of aggressive joint advocacy, the health and law
enforcement communities have won hard-fought battles nationwide to obtain
lifesaving belt and child-seat laws,'' Novello said Thursday in Washington.  Her
news conference was another attempt to drum up support for the administration's
goal of 70 percent seat-belt use nationwide by the end of next year.  AP
WASHINGTON INS Hopes To Rescue Stowaways On Trains The Immigration and
Naturalization Service is stepping up inspections for stowaways in trains
entering the United States as the summer heat pushes temperatures inside boxcars
to 180 degrees.  ''We are trying to avert a tragedy,'' Gene McNary, immigration
commissioner, said Wednesday in announcing Operation Iron Horse II. McNary is a
former county executive of St. Louis County, Mo.  AP WORLD SOUTH KOREA President
Leaves For Washington President Roh Tae-woo left Saturday for talks with
President George Bush as thousands of workers, dissidents and students burned an
American flag and staged anti-U.S., anti-government protests.  About 1,000
protesters - many shouting ''Let's drive out the Yankees!'' - burned a large
American flag at Konkuk University in eastern Seoul.  Protests also took place
in Kwangju, Pusan and Anyang.  Roh said his talks with Bush would focus on
promoting prosperity in the Asia-Pacific region.  AP LEBANON Top Troops Prepare
To Move Into Port The government's best troops prepared on Saturday to move into
the southern port of Sidon in an attempt to regain control of the turbulent
region - a step that could lead to confrontation with defiant Palestinian
guerrillas.  The Palestine Liberation Organization has said it will not resist
the deployment on Monday of the 3,500-man 9th Brigade in Sidon, the provincial
capital 25 miles south of Beirut.  The guerrillas, as well as Shiite Muslim
fundamentalists, refuse to surrender their arms as President Elias Hrawi
demands. They claim they need the weapons to fight the Israeli troops and
Christian militias they face in southern Lebanon.  AP BOLIVIA U.S. Agents
Accompany Troops On Drug Raid Government troops were patrolling northern jungle
regions Saturday after soldiers, accompanied by U.S. agents, swept into a
cocaine trafficking stronghold, seizing planes and arresting suspects.  The raid
Friday could be the first in a new series of anti-drug operations throughout
Bolivia, the coca leaf-growing center of the world, officials said in La Paz,
the capital.  The raid on Santa Ana, 350 miles northeast of La Paz, was
conducted by more than 600 Bolivian soldiers backed by air force units.
Witnesses said armed Drug Enforcement Administration agents also had taken part.
AP INDIA Patrol Kills 15 Rebels Near Pakistan Border Soldiers patrolling India's
border in the northern state of Jammu-Kashmir shot to death 15 Muslim rebels
Saturday as they were trying to cross over to Pakistan, police said in Srinagar.
Director General of Police Jai Narayan Saxena said those killed were among 80
young and unarmed Kashmiri men attempting to cross the border for training in
guerrilla warfare.  AP GREECE U.S. Air Base Closed, Victim Of Budget Cuts The
U.S. Air Force's Hellenikon base, an original symbol of the Cold War and often
the scene of violent anti-American protests, closed Friday, the victim of U.S.
budget cuts and new military strategies.  The American flag was lowered for the
last time at the 44-year-old base, which shared the runway at the international
airport in Athens. The Greek air force officially took control of Hellenikon
during the ceremony.  Reuters

LOAD-DATE: October 13, 1993

LANGUAGE: English

GRAPHIC: Photo; Photo Headshot ... Pete Wilson

                  Copyright 1991 St. Louis Post-Dispatch, Inc.


                              108 of 268 DOCUMENTS

                       St. Louis Post-Dispatch (Missouri)

                February 25, 1989, SATURDAY, THREE STAR Edition

BORDER SWEEP NABS 500 NEAR SAN DIEGO

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 6A

LENGTH: 186 words


TIJUANA, Mexico (AP) - U.S. and Mexican authorities on horses and in all-terrain
vehicles and helicopters rounded up about 500 illegal aliens and drug suspects
in raids on both sides of the border Thursday, news reports said.  About 50 U.S.
agents swept down to the north bank of the Tijuana River's concrete-lined
channel, the San Diego Union quoted U.S. officials as saying, and took about 350
undocumented aliens into custody.  Meanwhile, officers from city, state and
federal police departments in Tijuana waited south of the border as hundreds of
people fled up the south bank and through holes in the chainlink border fence,
the paper said.

LOAD-DATE: October 23, 1993

LANGUAGE: English

                  Copyright 1989 St. Louis Post-Dispatch, Inc.


                              109 of 268 DOCUMENTS

                       St. Louis Post-Dispatch (Missouri)

                   June 22, 1989, THURSDAY, FIVE STAR Edition

TWO LABOR CONTRACTORS IN FLORIDA FINED BY U.S.

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 13A

LENGTH: 173 words


RIVIERA BEACH, Fla. - Starting what federal officials say is a crackdown on farm
labor contractors who violate immigration laws, the U.S. Border Patrol fined two
men $59,700 on Tuesday on the allegation that they supplied illegal aliens to
work on farms in Florida.  The civil penalty was levied against Jose Domingo
Poblano Sr., 45, and Jose Domingo Poblano Jr., 25, owners of Vegetable
Harvesting Inc., in West Palm Beach.  Border Patrol Chief Agent Neal Richards
said that by fining farm labor contractors, federal officials hoped to curtail
the illegal labor force in South Florida.  1989, Cox News Service

LOAD-DATE: October 22, 1993

LANGUAGE: English

                  Copyright 1989 St. Louis Post-Dispatch, Inc.


                              110 of 268 DOCUMENTS

                       St. Louis Post-Dispatch (Missouri)

                  August 2, 1989, WEDNESDAY, FIVE STAR Edition

U.S. OVERSEAS PERSONNEL TO BE COUNTED IN CENSUS

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 14A

LENGTH: 707 words


WASHINGTON (AP) - American military personnel stationed overseas will be counted
in the 1990 census, but the House blocked on Tuesday a related move to bar the
counting of illegal aliens.  The decision to include military personnel in the
count was announced by the Commerce Department at the start of a hearing on a
bill to require the action.  According to Tuesday's announcement, the Census
Bureau will work with the Pentagon to count the 1.2 million to 1.6 million
military and civilian Defense Department workers overseas.  At the same time,
the sometimes emotional debate over leaving out undocumented aliens got under
way both in committee and on the House floor, where Rep. Tom Ridge, R-Pa.,
failed in an effort to attach the ban to an appropriations measure.  Ridge's
amendment was offered to a $5.8 billion appropriation bill for running the
State, Justice, and Commerce departments next year, including $800 million for
carrying out the 1990 census. The bill was approved by a vote of 258-165, and
sent to the Senate.  The dispute cuts close to home for the 435 House members,
because the census count will be used to redistribute House seats among the
states.  States that have grown in population will get more seats; others will
lose them.  Many Northern states, already facing losses because of population
shifts to the South and West, are concerned about additional gains by the Sun
Belt states and large urban centers because of the settlement of illegal aliens
in those areas. It was for that reason that Ridge introduced his amendment,
which was rejected after extensive parliamentary maneuvering.  Opponents pointed
out that the Constitution specifically requires House seats to be apportioned
based on all the ''persons'' residing in a state.  ''Every census since the
Constitution was created has counted all residents of the states, both citizens
and non-citizens,'' observed Rep. Don Edwards, D-Calif.  ''Congress is empowered
to identify those to be counted'' in the census, Ridge responded.  The count,
scheduled for April 1, 1990, will cost $4 billion, said Ridge, asserting that
the Census Bureau has the money to identify and separate out illegal aliens, but
doesn't want to.  Rep. Bill Goodling, R-Pa., contended that at the time the
Constitution was written there were no illegal aliens and that all new arrivals
were welcome.  Rep. Mervyn M. Dymally, D-Calif., countered that there have
always been undocumented aliens in this country. The difference is that in the
early days they came from Europe, Dymally said.  The debate, Dymally said, is
really over the fact that population shifts will give House seats to Southern
and Western states and that undocumented aliens are being blamed.

LOAD-DATE: October 25, 1993

LANGUAGE: English

                  Copyright 1989 St. Louis Post-Dispatch, Inc.


                              111 of 268 DOCUMENTS

                       St. Louis Post-Dispatch (Missouri)

                  August 5, 1989, SATURDAY, THREE STAR Edition

PROTEST RIPS CHAINING OF STOWAWAYS

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 8A

LENGTH: 560 words


ORANGE, Texas - Two East African stowaways, who a legislator from southeast
Texas said were ''men without a country,'' may remain indefinitely handcuffed
and chained to a wall aboard a ship now in dry dock.  State Rep. Al Price, D-
Beaumont, said Thursday that - short of working with Sen. Lloyd Bentsen's office
- he had exhausted all possible efforts to get the stowaways, ages 19 and 17,
freed for humanitarian purposes and flown back to Africa.  ''Our immigration
laws, for all practical purposes, forbid any person to enter the country without
the proper papers, even (in order to to have them incarcerated by the
immigration service until they can obtain the documents,'' Price said.  The
names of the two teen-agers were not disclosed, and their homeland was
undetermined.  Rumors about two men held handcuffed and chained in a 6-foot by
12-foot restroom aboard the Genevieve Lykes at the Bethlehem Steel dry dock in
Port Arthur prompted city health officials to investigate.  Ted Jefferson, a
Port Arthur health inspector who boarded the Genevieve Lykes on Monday with
nurses, said after the visit that the room the stowaways occupied was similar to
a small police holding cell. Jefferson added that he had found no evidence of
malnutrition, which must be present for the city to take action.  Subsequently,
the Port Arthur chapter of the National Association for the Advancement of
Colored People voiced opposition to the methods the ship's crew had taken to
keep the men from entering the U.S. illegally. ''Those are inhumane conditions
that amount to torture,'' said the Rev.  Raymond Scott, chairman of the legal
redress committee of the NAACP's Port Arthur chapter. ''Even if they were
keeping pigs in a room that small, they wouldn't be handcuffed.'' But
Immigration and Naturalization Service officials in Houston said undocumented
aliens aboard international sea ships must be restrained while in port. If they
enter the U.S. illegally, the ship's owner faces strict fines.

LOAD-DATE: October 25, 1993

LANGUAGE: English

                  Copyright 1989 St. Louis Post-Dispatch, Inc.


                              112 of 268 DOCUMENTS

                       St. Louis Post-Dispatch (Missouri)

                  October 1, 1989, SUNDAY, THREE STAR Edition

SENATE VOTES TO EXCLUDE ALIENS FROM CENSUS

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 7D

LENGTH: 507 words


WASHINGTON (AP) - The Senate has endorsed legislation barring the counting of
illegal aliens in next year's census, an action with potential impact on the
drawing of congressional districts and federal aid to areas with large alien
populations.  The amendment, offered by Sen. Richard C. Shelby, D-Ala., would
forbid the use of fede ral money to count illegal aliens for the purpose of
congressional reapportionment. The measure was approved by voice vote Friday and
attached to a $17.3 billion appropriations bill for the Commerce, State and
Justice departments after an amendment to table it was defeated 50-41.  The
overall bill, which contains the annual appropriations for the three
departments, the federal judiciary and related agencies, was approved on a voice
vote.  The action took place after a number of senators noted that the
Constitution provided for the counting of ''the whole number of persons'' in
each state, not just citizens.  But Sen. Orrin G. Hatch, R-Utah, said that if
that were followed literally, ''an occupying army would qualify'' to be counted
by the census.  Senate Minority Leader Bob Dole, R-Kan., agreed. He said some
states with few illegal aliens were losing seats in Congress because illegal
aliens in other states were included in the population count.  ''This policy
simply does not make any sense,'' Dole said.  But Sen. Pete Wilson, D-Calif.,
said that many urban areas were impacted with a massive infusion of illegal
aliens who were draining available money for schools and health care.  If they
are not counted by the census, feaderal aid to these regions will be decreased,
Wilson said.  Sen. Thad Cochran, R-Miss., said that while he sympathized with
regions trying to deal with aliens, the ultimate solution was to eliminate the
problem.  ''Illegal aliens ought to be deported,'' Cochran said.

LOAD-DATE: October 27, 1993

LANGUAGE: English

                  Copyright 1989 St. Louis Post-Dispatch, Inc.


                              113 of 268 DOCUMENTS

                       St. Louis Post-Dispatch (Missouri)

                  October 15, 1989, SUNDAY, THREE STAR Edition

NUMBER OF HISPANICS IN U.S. HITS RECORD

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 8A

LENGTH: 800 words


WASHINGTON - As Congress wrestles with the question of whether illegal
aliens,many of them Hispanic, should be included in next year's census, the
government says that the nation's Hispanic population passed a statistical
landmark this year, exceeding 20 million people for the first time.  That
estimate from the Census Bureau translates into an increase of 39 percent since
1980, up from 14.5 million.  The announcement last week underscored the
importance of the 1990 census results, which will be used as a basis for
congressional redistricting.  Assuming that the figures are accurate, the
Hispanic population, the second-fastest growing group in America, is about 8.2
percent of the entire U.S. population, up from 6.5 percent in 1980.  The
fastest-growing group in the first half of this decade was a category used by
the Census Bureau that includes both Asians and American Indians.  On a
procedural vote Wednesday, the House turned back a renewed effort to force the
Census Bureau to exclude illegal aliens from the population estimates that will
be used as a basis for reapportionment.  The exclusion proposals, which were
passed by the Senate two weeks ago on a 50-41 vote, will be debated in a
House-Senate conference committee that is considering the budget for the
Commerce Department.  How the issue will be resolved in committee is unclear,
observers said, although the Senate usually accedes to the wishes of the House
on redistricting questions.  Administration lobbyists joined forces with
congressional delegations from the populous states of California, New York and
Texas in opposing the proposal to exclude illegals from the population estimates
that will be used in reapportionment. Commerce Department officials labeled the
plan ''infeasible'' and said it would ''considerably undermine critical efforts
being undertaken by the bureau to assure an effective and complete count in
1990.'' Most experts agree that the Constitution requires the census to count
every resident of the United States, legal or illegal.  The Census Bureau has
said that its census takers do not have the expertise to distinguish a legal
resident from an illegal one.  Officials have also said that if the census
takers ask pointed questions about the status of those being surveyed, many
people will be dissuaded from giving the kind of accurate information that the
census is supposed to collect.  The Immigration and Naturalization Service
estimated earlier this year that 1.7 million to 2.9 million people are in the
country illegally, figures that the Census Bureau is expected to confirm in a
report next month.  The government also estimates that 200,000 illegal
immigrants have entered the country every year since 1980 and that more than 70
percent of these were Hispanic.  Most experts assume that the illegal population
is concentrated in California, Texas and New York, the three states with the
greatest number of Hispanic residents.  The effort to exclude this group from
the apportionment base has found its strongest backers in states like
Pennsylvania, Kansas, Alabama, North Carolina and Mississippi, whose
congressional delegations are concerned about losing representation.  The latest
count of 20.1 million Hispanics is based on a survey taken in March of 58,000
households.

LOAD-DATE: October 27, 1993

LANGUAGE: English

                  Copyright 1989 St. Louis Post-Dispatch, Inc.


                              114 of 268 DOCUMENTS

                       St. Louis Post-Dispatch (Missouri)

                 October 21, 1989, SATURDAY, FIVE STAR Edition

ALIENS TO COUNT IN REDISTRICTING

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 10A

LENGTH: 414 words


WASHINGTON (AP) - House and Senate negotiators have agreed to include illegal
aliens counted in the 1990 census when congressional districts are redrawn to
account for shifts in population.  Under an amendment approved by the Senate,
the use of federal money would have been prohibited for counting illegal aliens
for the purpose of congressional reapportionment. But a House-Senate conference
committee voted Thursday to drop the Senate amendment when it approved
appropriations for the Commerce, State and Justice departments.  States such as
Texas, California and Florida that have large numbers of illegal aliens could
gain new congressional seats as a result of the decision.  Inclusion of illegal
aliens in the count has been strongly opposed by legislators from areas with few
of those residents. Those areas fear loss of influence in Congress.  ''The
outcome was never in doubt because the Constitution could not be clearer,'' said
Sen. Phil Gramm, R-Texas, a member of the conference committee. ''The
Constitution says that apportionment is based on the number of persons, and
everybody is entitled to their own opinion, but not their own constitution.''
Illegal aliens always have been counted in the census because of the requirement
to include all people who live in the country. Census Bureau officials have
pointed out that they would have no way to exclude illegal aliens, because no
question about citizenship is asked in the national head count.

LOAD-DATE: October 27, 1993

LANGUAGE: English

                  Copyright 1989 St. Louis Post-Dispatch, Inc.


                              115 of 268 DOCUMENTS

                       St. Louis Post-Dispatch (Missouri)

                   March 23, 1990, FRIDAY, FIVE STAR Edition

MAN CHARGED WITH TRANSPORTING ALIENS

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 3A

LENGTH: 147 words


Josafat Corrales-Torres of Carpentersville, Ill., was charged here Thursday with
trying to transport 14 illegal aliens from New Mexico to Elgin, Ill., near
Chicago area. Corrales-Torres, 32, was arrested after the rented truck he was
driving was stopped Tuesday on Interstate 44 in St. Louis County on a traffic
violation, authorities said.  Investigators said 14 people, all illegal aliens
from Mexico, were found in the truck's cargo compartment, which had been locked.
Corrales-Torres is a resident alien, authorities said.

LOAD-DATE: October 14, 1993

LANGUAGE: English

                  Copyright 1990 St. Louis Post-Dispatch, Inc.


                              116 of 268 DOCUMENTS

                       St. Louis Post-Dispatch (Missouri)

             November 20, 1989, MONDAY, ILLINOIS FIVE STAR Edition

CAMP IMPROVES MIGRANTS' LIVES - A LITTLE

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 6I

LENGTH: 1000 words


COBDEN, Ill. (AP) - When Marisela Sanchez emigrated from Mexico City to Southern
Illinois three years ago, she had no idea about the kind of troubles migrant
workers face.  Last May, Sanchez took over as manager of the migrant camp near
Cobden. She has learned a lot since then.  ''I know these people, and I would
like to help them any way I can,'' Sanchez says. ''I didn't even know all the
problems they have until I was here.'' Her office offers help and friendship.
When she is in, the door is open, and residents are free to stop by. Often, they
want to chat, speak ing rapid Spanish back and forth with Sanchez.  The camp's
busy season is May to October. It has grown quiet in the past few weeks, with
most migrants traveling with the crops, moving to Florida, Texas or California
for work.  Others now are free to return to Mexico for the winter, thanks to
changes in the immigration law that allow them to cross the border.  The average
stay of the migrants, who are mostly Hispanic, is five months.  But each year,
more families choose to stay in Southern Illinois. Migrants call it ''settling
out'' - making a permanent base in a community. Those who stay must find housing
away from the camp, which closes in December.  Built in the late 1960s, the camp
now is owned by the non-profit Union-Jackson Farmworker Association and managed
by the Illinois Migrant Council regional office, part of the Department of
Commerce and Community Affairs. The camp has 36 two-bedroom apartments furnished
with a picnic table in the kitchen and beds in each bedroom. Each has a
refrigerator and stove top.  Weekly rent ranges from $6.25 to $18, utilities
included.  There are communal bathrooms and showers for women and men.  The camp
has a day-care center operated through the national Head Start program, and a
health clinic operated by Shawnee Health Service Inc.  Many regions that rely on
migrant workers do not have camps. Those that do usually offer no day care or
health services on site.  ''Before the camp was here, the people slept in their
cars or in the orchards in shacks,'' says David Torrence, day-care director.
The camp gives the migrants a sense of community. Spanish music can be heard;
the smell of Mexican cooking wafts through the air.  But life is far from
comfortable. Field work is difficult and often painful. Injuries are frequent.
The life expectancy for a migrant worker is 49 years, compared with 73 for the
rest of the nation's population.  The death rate from influenza and pneumonia
for migrants is 20 percent higher than the national average. For tuberculosis
and communicable disease, the rate is 25 times higher, as is the infant
mortality rate.  The majority of migrants do not have health-care benefits. Many
make minimum wage of $3.35 an hour. Some growers pay up to $4 or $4.50 an hour.
Other problems include cultural differences in attitudes toward alcohol.  The
Fellowship House Inc., a prevention and treatment center, offers recreational
programs for migrant children and adults funded by the Department of Alcohol and
Substance Abuse.  ''We do these activities at what we consider the peak drinking
time - Saturday night,'' says Fernando Ares, prevention coordinator. Drinking is
part of ''the rite of passage'' into adulthood in many cultures, including among
Hispanics.  Although the United States has launched a widespread and somewhat
successful program to discourage drinking and driving, the same is not true in
Mexico. Understanding this and other cultural differences is important, Ares
says.  It is also crucial, particularly as more migrants make their homes in
Southern Illinois, to have a more accepting attitude, Ares says.  ''I think we
need to realize that the United States is still a melting pot,'' he says.
''People come here not to be lazy and live on public assistance. They come here
for jobs. They're taking over jobs that many people do not want to do.''
Americans can learn a lot from the migrants, Ares says, adding: ''They bring a
great amount of richness into this culture.''

LOAD-DATE: October 27, 1993

LANGUAGE: English

                  Copyright 1989 St. Louis Post-Dispatch, Inc.


                              117 of 268 DOCUMENTS

                       St. Louis Post-Dispatch (Missouri)

                November 29, 1989, WEDNESDAY, FIVE STAR Edition

FARM WORKERS OPPOSE ATTEMPT TO USE CHEAPER FOREIGN LABOR

SECTION: BUSINESS; Pg. 8B

LENGTH: 440 words


TAMPA, Fla. (AP) - A group of Florida farm workers marched outside a meeting of
federal labor officials Tuesday to protest a citrus company's plan to import
hundreds of foreign pickers at rock-bottom wages. ''It's nothing but legalized
slave labor as far as we're concerned,'' said farm labor organizer Fernando
Cuevas, who led the protest. ''There's no reason to bring in foreign workers
when we've already got too many American workers.'' At issue is the federal
government's H-2 program, which allows foreign workers into the country to pick
crops when domestic labor is in short supply.  The program was started under the
Immigration Reform and Control Act in 1987 after farmer complaints that
legalization of many alien workers in recent years had depleted their labor
pool.  Oakley Brothers Inc., a Lake Wales-based grower, has petitioned the
government to bring in 942 workers from Mexico in January to pick citrus at a
prevailing rate of 65 cents a box.  ''Sixty-five cents is an absolute minimum
rate that Oakley wants to pay to everyone,'' said farm worker Tirso Moreno.
''It's not that there's not enough American workers - there's just not enough
who will work for 65 cents a box.'' Moreno said other growers are paying
seasonal rates ranging from $1.03 to $1.23 a box.  Cuevas said growers such as
Oakley are seeking foreign workers who will agree to substandard wages and
working conditions, which he said undermines domestic workers and puts more
Americans on welfare.  About 75 chanting, sign-carrying demonstrators marched
outside a hotel where more than 200 federal farm labor officials were holding a
national planning conference.

LOAD-DATE: October 27, 1993

LANGUAGE: English

                  Copyright 1989 St. Louis Post-Dispatch, Inc.


                              118 of 268 DOCUMENTS

                       St. Louis Post-Dispatch (Missouri)

                January 8, 1989, SUNDAY, LATE FIVE STAR Edition

94 REFUGEES SAIL FROM HAITI TO FLORIDA KEYS

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 5B

LENGTH: 507 words


KEY WEST, Fla. - A 30-foot wooden sailboat carrying 94 refugees has run aground
off Grassy Key, bringing the largest number of Haitians to Florida since 1980.
Most were taken to the Krome detention center near Miami, said Perry Rivkind,
district director for the Immigration and Naturalization Service.  ''This is the
largest number of Haitians to get here in nine years,'' he said.  ''From this
point, any new illegals who enter have to be moved to other facilities. Krome is
now at capacity. It's very critical.'' Rivkind said the center was pressed to
its limits. He said Krome should have 125 employees for the 525 detainees there.
Instead, 63 staff members are working 12-hour shifts.  Rivkind said he has asked
for $30,000 in emergency funds to pay for employee overtime for about ''a month
or two.'' ''We're going to ask for relief,'' he said. ''We need it. The more
people at Krome - the longer they have to wait in line for food and other things
- the opportunity for protests, and tension grows.'' The Haitians landed 100
yards off Grassy Key about 9 a.m. Friday. Among them were 10 pregnant women and
three children, Rivkind said.  Three people aboard the craft were taken to a
hospital in Marathon, Fla.  Rivkind said one woman went into labor shortly after
her arrival, one man had a heart attack and another woman fainted.  Members of
the group said they had left a port about 150 miles from Port-au-Prince 30 days
ago, Rivkind said. They landed twice in Cuba, where they were given food and
water.  When they were brought to shore just n orth of Marathon in the Florida
Keys, they told sheriff's deputies that they had been without food or water for
24 hours.  Rivkind said the pregnant women would be turned over to sponsors,
such as relatives, friends or local churches. Temporary homes will be found for
the children whose parents were not aboard the boat.  He said the remaining 81
men and women would be taken to Krome after immigration officials interview
them. Each will go before an immigration judge in Miami this week.

LOAD-DATE: October 23, 1993

LANGUAGE: English

                  Copyright 1989 St. Louis Post-Dispatch, Inc.


                              119 of 268 DOCUMENTS

                       St. Louis Post-Dispatch (Missouri)

                   July 24, 1989, Monday, FIVE STAR   EDITION

'ASIATOWN' EMERGES ON SOUTH SIDE

BYLINE: Judith VandeWater; Of the Post-Dispatch Staff

SECTION: BUSINESS PLUS, Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1291 words


When Jay Prapaisilp opened his tiny corner store at 3232 South Grand Boulevard
in 1975, the Asian population in south St. Louis was small. Business was so
slow at the Jay Asia Food Co. that Prapaisilp paid his younger brother,  Sucsin,
in food and the younger Prapaisilp worked two other jobs for income.

Four blocks north of Jay Asia, Annie Leong's store, Asia Food Products, catered
to the Chinese community that her family had been serving since 1938. Leong's
parents ran a restaurant and store in the 700 block of Market in what used to be
the center of Chinatown and what is now the site of the General American Life
Insurance Co. building.

Chinatown was leveled in 1965, and the Leongs moved the store to 1509 Delmar
before moving to 3604 South Grand Avenue in 1979. Now, a decade later, the
business Annie Leong inherited from her parents is again near the center of an
emerging Asiatown.

In the past two years, a number of small restaurants and shops owned and
operated by immigrants and refugees from Southeast Asia have opened along an
L-shaped strip of South Grand and Chippewa.

The groundwork for the evolving business district was laid in the early 1980's
when the International Institute of Metro St. Louis, a social services agency
that aids immigrants and refugees, decided to move out of its cramped quarters
in the Central West End into the near South Side.

In addition to offering English classes and helping immigrants find jobs, the
institute helps its clients find housing. ''Logic would have it that you would
find housing close to where the services would be,'' said Anna Peterson
Crosslin, executive director and president of the institute. ''We settled our
refugee population around us.''

The institute started resettling refugees in the South Side in 1981 in
anticipation of its move to 3800 Park Avenue early the following year. At that
time the institute was sponsoring 500 to 600 refugees a year. Almost all its
clients were Indochinese and most were Vietnamese boat people.

Peterson said that the institute found housing for the new arrivals in a
quadrant loosely defined by Chouteau to the north, Chippewa to the south, Tower
Grove to the west and the Mississippi River to the east.

The number of new refugees com ing to St. Louis under the institute's
sponsorship has decreased significantly and become more diverse in the past five
or six years, but Crosslin estimates that almost 2,000 Vietnamese refugees, or
about 90 percent of the Vietnamese population in the city of St. Louis still
live within that quadrant.

Jay Asia's business naturally grew along with the Asian and refugee population
in the area. ''As the refugees arrived, Jay Asia was the obvious place to go to
buy the items they needed,'' Crosslin said. ''He built up quite a clientele from
the whole thing,'' Crosslin said of Prapaisilp.

While Jay Prapaisilp was attending to his food store, Sucsin Prapaisilp opened
the The King And I, a Thai restaurant at 3226 South Grand. Then, a few years
ago, Sucsin Prapaisilp bought the store from his brother. Last year he moved the
food store into a much larger building at 3604 South Grand and expanded the
inventory to offer foods from India, Malaysia, Indonesia, Lebanon, Iran, Iraq,
Cuba and Mexico.

Prapaisilp estimates that about 80 percent of his customers are oriental.
''Americans come in looking for seaweed and sweet and sour sauce,'' said
Prapaisilp. Orientals come in looking for giant squid and rattan shoots.

Jay Asia's inventory which once consisted of little more than rice and fish
sauce, now includes whole frozen frogs, pickled mud fish, fresh litchi and
hundreds of other hard-to-find items that help make immigrants feel at home.

Like her husband, Sudawadee Prapaisilp is a Thai immigrant. She understands a
few words spoken by the Laotians who frequent the store. She employs sign
language with the store's Spanish speaking clientele. And she carries a small
notebook that serves as a homemade dictionary of Vietnamese and Cambodian foods.
Sometimes her customers bring her an empty can to ask her to stock the product
because Jay Asia's prices its products below the imported merchandise offered by
large chains, she said.

''We are not making much money, but we have enough to pay the employees and the
rent and the utilities,'' she said. ''The oriental way is to save up money a
little at a time.''

Crosslin said that Asian refugees that have saved enough money to start their
own businesses are naturally looking to South Grand and Cherokee because of the
concentration of Asians in the neighborhood. ''They had a built-in constituency.
Every year it seems like there are one or two more Asian stores that open,'' she
said.

The Pho Grand Restaurant at 3191 South Grand is one of the newest of the refugee
businesses. Hang ''Tammy'' Nguyen, who owns the restaurant in partnership with
her husband, My Trinh, claims to operate the first authentic Vietnamese
restaurant in St. Louis.

Other St. Louis area restaurants owned by Vietnamese refugees, including the
Hunan Cafe and the Webster Garden, which are owned by Nguyen's family, offer a
predominantly Chinese menu.

Nguyen, whose family left Vietnam in 1975 and arrived in the United States with
no money and no clothes, said that her family discouraged her from opening a
Vietnamese restaurant. They feared Americans had no taste for traditional
Vietnamese food.

''When we first opened in March, a lot of Vietnamese said 'I don't think you
will make.' '' They thought Americans would associate the menu with the Vietnam
War, Nguyen said. So far the Pho Grand has proved the doomsayers wrong.

''We've been doing very well,'' said Nguyen. ''My husband aims for Vietnamese
customers. I told him I want to aim to Americans.''

Less than a mile away, at 3104 Cherokee, Lien Tran sells the hand-embroidered
cloth used to make traditional Vietnamese dresses. The Far East Oriental Gift
Shop also sells Vietnamese books, tapes, compact discs and a wide selection of
videos of Chinese movies, dubbed in Vietnamese. Her shop, which opened in
October, also sells knickknacks and some clothing.

Tran, who taught high school in Vietnam, has a basement full of clothing and
household essentials that she gives away to newly arrived immigrants. ''They can
get some clothing or something to start a life here - some chop sticks, a bowl
or used furniture. Some people need it,'' Tran said.

Sales are slow in the shop upstairs, in part because Tran is advertising only to
the Vietnamese community.

Tran estimates the Vietnamese community in St. Louis is about 3,000 or 4,000
strong. Although this is significantly higher than the institute's estimate,
Tran has concluded that it is insufficient to be the sole support of a good
business.

''In Chicago they have 15,000 to 20,000 Vietnamese people, they make a good
business there,'' she said.

Tran believes that business will build slowly. She does not expect to make a
profit for two years. ''You can get rich easier running a restaurant. I don't
have enough health to do that,'' she said.

Most Vietnamese work during the week and shop on the weekends. During the slow
times, Tran studies for a real estate license. All of her money is sunk into the
shop. She borrowed $ 4,000 from a friend to buy the videos.

''My people, when t hey open businesses, usually borrow money from relatives and
friends. Friends or relatives don't charge interest, they just want to help,''
Tran said.

Crosslin said that in many Vietnamese family businesses, the owners and their
relatives take out only what they need to support their families. ''They don't
haul down salaries in the traditional sense. They put the money back into the
business.''

LOAD-DATE: February 26, 1998

LANGUAGE: English

GRAPHIC: Photo, Map, (1) Color Photo by Robert LaRouche/Post-Dispatch -
Sudawadee Prapaislip, left, looks over Vietnamese greens at her Jay Asia store
that where grown for sale at the store by the mother of Kim Kran, Left, holding
her son Andrew.
 (2) MAP by Post-Dispatch - (Map Showing area  where Indochinese have settled.)

                  Copyright 1989 St. Louis Post-Dispatch, Inc.


                              120 of 268 DOCUMENTS

                       St. Louis Post-Dispatch (Missouri)

                  January 2, 1992, THURSDAY, FIVE STAR Edition

LINK ISRAELI LOANS TO SETTLEMENT HALT PALESTINIANS ALSO HAVE A RIGHT TO;
HOMELAND

BYLINE: Lois Levine and Alice Senturia

SECTION: EDITORIAL; Pg. 3F

LENGTH: 724 words


Within the next several months, Congress will decide under what conditions,
ifany, to authorize $10 billion of housing loan guarantees to the Israeli
government. These loan guarantees would allow Israel to borrow up to $10 billion
from commercial banks under more advantageous terms than they could otherwise
obtain.  The money would be used to build housing for the many recent Soviet
Jewish immigrants and more immigrants expected over the next several years.
Because we care deeply about the future of Israel, we believe that Congress
should make all loan guarantees contingent upon Israel's agreeing to a permanent
freeze on building and expanding settlements in the occupied territories.  By
encouraging Israeli Jews to move to territory captured by Israel in 1967, and by
building roads, water and electricity to these Jewish settlements, the Israeli
government aims to make it politically and practically impossible to return this
territory. Continued settlement building thwarts the land-for-peace principle
upon which a lasting Middle East peace must be based, a peace that would ensure
safety to all Jews seeking asylum in Israel.  Many Israelis oppose settlement of
the territories. For example, Israeli political scientist Ehud Sprinzak
expressed concern that American friends of Israel have been ''evading the
settlement issue'' and are thereby becoming ''accomplices to a tragic march of
folly that may lead Israel to disaster.'' Not only the Palestinians but all
Israelis will ultimately suffer. A recent poll by the Smith Institute found that
if the United States made housing loan guarantees conditional on a freeze on
West Bank and Gaza settlements, 37 percent of Israeli Jews would favor a
permanent freeze and an additional 35 percent of Israeli Jews would favor a
temporary freeze. The need to settle the large number of recent immigrants is a
humanitarian issue. Soviet Jews want to emigrate because they fear
anti-Semitism. They desire safety. But the Palestinians have similar fears and
desires. They fear remaining occupied, without rights, their land expropriated.
They desire the safety that can only be achieved in their own homeland. Thus,
the plight of the Palestinians is a humanitarian issue also. We must remain
conscious of both.  At a time when Americans are supporting the national
aspirations of peoples in Eastern Europe, we should not forget the 1.7 million
Palestinians in the West Bank and Gaza strip. Israeli policy gives full civil
and political rights to Israelis moving to the territories, many of whom have
only recently arrived in Israel, while the Palestinian Arabs rooted for
generations in this land are treated as if they have no legitimate claims.  The
U.S. position for the past two decades has been tha t Israeli settlement of the
occupied territories is either illegal or an obstacle to peace. Our government
places conditions on aid to other countries. It should also make policy reform a
condition for Israeli housing loan guarantees.  In the past fiscal year, Israel
spent on the occupied territories three times what it spent in any year since
1967. Due to government subsidies, it is now 30-50 percent cheaper to buy a
house in the territories than to buy a similar house within Israel proper. These
and other financial incentives cause many Israelis desperate for affordable
housing to move to the territories.  As Ephraim Sneh, former head of the civil
administration in the West Bank, stated, ''All funds entering the Treasury are
fungible. Getting aid for immigrant housing enables the government to budget
other outlays, including incentives for building in the territories.'' Ending
settlement building will not limit Israel's capacity to absorb immigrants -
pre-1967 Israel is 55 percent empty.  If Israel gets housing loan guarantees for
immigrant absorption without conditions, the government will continue its
current policies. Future security for both Israel and the Palestinians will
depend on implementing the land-for-peace principle.  As Americans concerned
about the future of Israel, we urge Congress to make housing loan guarantees
conditional on a permanent cessation of settlement expansion.  Lois Levine, St.
Louis, is national co-chair of New Jewish Agenda. Alice Senturia is a member of
the steering committee for the group's St. Louis Chapter.

LOAD-DATE: October 11, 1993

LANGUAGE: English

                  Copyright 1992 St. Louis Post-Dispatch, Inc.


                              121 of 268 DOCUMENTS

                       St. Louis Post-Dispatch (Missouri)

                  January 13, 1992, MONDAY, FIVE STAR Edition

IMMIGRANTS: ARMENIANS RECOUNT TERROR, REVEL IN FREEDOM

BYLINE: Bill Smith Of the Post-Dispatch Staff

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 3A

LENGTH: 442 words


Two years ago, 15 men armed with axes burst into the home of Alexander Oganov's
parents in Azerbaijan, smashed their furniture into splinters and threatened to
kill the Armenian couple.  About that same time, in the same country, a group of
young toughs came into a kindergarten class and asked the teacher to point out
the Armenian schoolchildren; they reportedly said they would kill the children
if they continued to attend the school. Michael Osipov said he immediately
pulled his daughter, Irene, out of the class and taught her at home for the next
two years.  Oganov, who has been in the United States just 10 days, and Osipov,
who has been here one month, were among several dozen refugees who attended a
National Migration Week Mass Sunday at St. Aloysius Gonzaga Catholic Church,
5608 North Magnolia Avenue in St. Louis.  Rev. P. Joseph Buckley told
worshipers, ''The church has always welcomed those who didn't have a place to
go.'' He said the church is a place ''where people can get right with their God
and right with their fellow men and women.'' Richard Hayde, resettlement
director for Catholic Charities Refugee Services, said the Mass offered a ''way
of celebrating our immigrant heritage.'' Last year, he said, Catholic Charities
assisted in the resettlement of some 300 refugee families.  Sunday's Mass
featured a Vietnamese choir led by Minh Nguyen, a former lieutenant in the South
Vietnamese Army who immigrated to the United States in 1981. For Nguyen, there
was a special reason to give thanks at the service - a year ago his wife, Quy,
and four children finally were allowed to come to this country.  ''I thought it
was hopeless, that my family would ever come here,'' he said Sunday during a
reception that followed the Mass. ''I thank God that they finally came.  ''I am
v ery proud of my family,'' he said, ''and very happy.'' Oganov, 35, is an
Armenian who worked as a water engineer in Azerbaijan before he was frightened
away from that country. He said he had wanted for years to come to the U.S.
''because the United States is a democratic country, and I am a Christian. We
are very grateful for the kindness of the people here.'' Both Oganov and Osipov,
a computer programmer in Azerbaijan, said that they are looking for jobs here.
They say they realize it could be a long, difficult process.  ''We expected it
to be difficult,'' said Osipov.  Hayde said that most of the refugees over the
past 10 years have been immigrants from Vietnam or Eastern Europe. But because
of the recent democratization of eastern Europe, fewer of those people are being
given refugee status by the U.S. government, he said.

LOAD-DATE: October 11, 1993

LANGUAGE: English

                  Copyright 1992 St. Louis Post-Dispatch, Inc.


                              122 of 268 DOCUMENTS

                       St. Louis Post-Dispatch (Missouri)

                  January 13, 1992, MONDAY, FIVE STAR Edition

GULF VETERAN'S WIFE FACING DEPORTATION

BYLINE: Christine Bertelson Of the Post-Dispatch Staff

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 1A

LENGTH: 556 words


What should have been a joyful homecoming for a Maryland Heights man and his
pregnant German wife turned into a nightmare of red tape when immigration
officials threatened to deport her Sunday.  The couple, Daniel Boswell, 21, and
Alexandra Boswell, 25, arrived at Lambert Field on Saturday night from
Frankfurt, Germany. They were married here Sept. 28 and plan to make St. Louis
their permanent home. They had gone to Germany over the Christmas holidays to
visit her family in a small town near the border that formerly separated East
and West Germany.  But when the Boswells returned to St. Louis on Saturday,
immigration officials detained them. They said that because she lacked an
immigration visa she would be deported.  Boswell said the immigration ordeal was
the result of ''bad information'' he had been given by officials at the German
airport and by a lawyer for the office of the Judge Advocate General, the Army's
legal authority, in Germany.  He said that when Alexandra Boswell came to the
United States initially, she did so under a ''visa waiver.'' But when they
returned from their Christmas trip, they learned only upon arriving here that
the waiver no longer applied because they were married.  Immigration officials
initially said Alexandra Boswell would be deported Sunday afternoon. However, an
inner ear infection and morning sickness that she developed Sunday bought her
another 24 hours here. Alexandra Boswell, who speaks little English, was
unavailable for an interview Sunday because of her illness. ''This is tearing
her apart,'' Daniel Boswell said Sunday. ''My wife is being treated like a
common criminal. Her crime seems to be that she is German and she is my wife.''
Saturday night, immigration officials told Alexandra Boswell that she would
either have to spend Saturday night in jail or at a hotel near the airport,
Boswell said. He and his wife went to a hotel, but because they didn't have
enough U.S. money to pay for the room, he called his father, Larry Boswell, to
take them to his parents' home in Maryland Heights for the night.  ''We almost
had to forcibly remove her from the hotel,'' Larry Boswell said. ''She was
terrified that she was going to go to jail.'' Daniel Boswell met with
immigration officials Sunday at the airport, without his ailing wife.
Immigration officials agreed to let Alexandra Boswell stay in St. Louis for
another day or until she is well enough to fly back to Germany.  A.L. Johnson,
an airport immigration official, refused to discuss the case with a reporter.
If she does not leave voluntarily, immigration officials will have to seek a
special order to force her to return to Germany, Boswell said.  Boswell said he
had contacted an immigration lawyer to begin taking steps today to keep his wife
in the country until she can obtain the proper papers.  Boswell met his wife in
June at a German-American friendship festival while he was stationed in
Bad-Hersfeld. Boswell served in the Army for three years in Germany and fought
in the Persian Gulf War. He was discharged last August and returned to St.
Louis, where he is a student at Florissant Valley Community College. He also
works as a security guard for Whelan Security Service.  ''We thought we had done
everything right,'' Daniel Boswell said. ''We didn't set out to deceive anybody.

LOAD-DATE: October 11, 1993

LANGUAGE: English

GRAPHIC: Photo; PHOTOS by Wes Pas/Post-Dispatch.....LEFT: Daniel Boswell sitting
Sitting Sunday at his family's home in Maryland Heights. RIGHT: Boswell with his
wife, Alexandra, in the same swing on their wedding day.

                  Copyright 1992 St. Louis Post-Dispatch, Inc.


                              123 of 268 DOCUMENTS

                       St. Louis Post-Dispatch (Missouri)

                  February 3, 1992, MONDAY, FIVE STAR Edition

GREAT EXPECTATIONS AREA'S NEWEST INFLUX OF IMMIGRANTS IS FINDING AN AMERICAN;
DREAM DELAYED

BYLINE: Peter Hernon Of the Post-Dispatch Staff

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 1A

LENGTH: 1014 words


Alexander Kogan, 33, holds a master's degree in physics and a doctorate in
economics. As he struggles to improve his English, he delivers for Pizza Hut.
Oleg Gura, 41, earns little more than the minimum wage cleaning offices.  He
needs food stamps to feed his 10 children.  Ilya Vishnevetsky, 27, coached the
Soviet Olympic table-tennis team. Now, with a new business under way, he is
sweating out the pings of a troubled economy.  The turbulence of the recession
has made the American dream more remote - but no less bright - for these and
other recent immigrants to St. Louis from former Soviet-bloc nations.  Many are
highly educated. But with large numbers of Americans already standing in
unemployment lines, the immigrants are often forced to jump at any job they can
find.  In most cases, say local resettlement experts, these newcomers are having
a difficult time.  ''The jobs are harder to find,'' said Richard Hayde of
Catholic Migration and Refugee Services.  Hayde's agency helps resettle about
300 refugees a year, most of them from the old Soviet Union and Vietnam.  ''A
few years ago, we could line up job interviews for everyone, and more than
one,'' said Hayde. ''No more. And since the economy got tighter, employers are
demanding a higher level of English-speaking ability.'' New arrivals here often
have to take jobs that pay between $4.50 and $5 an hour.  ''Some of the Russians
might have had higher expectations'' than the Vietnamese, Laotians and other
refugees from Southeast Asia who arrived during the last decade, said Hayde.
''Many were professional people who now have to be re-educated or re-certified.
They might have expected more.'' The Asians didn't suffer from that ''fantasy,''
he added. They were willing to take anything, do anything. Some local employers
were so impressed with the immigrants' will to work that they made a point of
recruiting them.  Now Russians like Oleg Gura, a Baptist minister who fled the
Soviet Union with his large family for religious freedom, find the same road is
bumpier.  Gura and other members of a sizable Russian Baptist community in south
St.  Louis meet for regular Sunday services at the Southside Baptist Church,
3514 Oregon Avenue. Only one out of 98 has a good job, said Gura, who learned
English by reading a Russian-English Bible.  ''Most of the others are like me,''
he said. ''I work for $5 an hour with 12 in my family. It's hard. For some,
their English is not so good. We don't want to receive food stamps. We are
grateful to American taxpayers, but we don't want welfare. We want jobs.'' Gura
used to live 50 miles from the Chinese border. He and his family now live in a
home near the church. His education, he said, was cut short by the KGB. Not long
after he started at a Soviet university, he was told he would either have to
drop out of school or stop his Baptist preaching, Gura said.  He quit school.
His last job in the Soviet Union was as a beekeeper.  ''The man is a skilled
mechanic, a wonderful carpenter,'' said the Rev.  Gordon C. Murray, pastor of
Southside Baptist. ''He can fix anything. And he's not alone. Most of the others
are incredibly skilled. All of them are working.  The problem in this recession
is that they are underemployed.'' Murray's church assists more than 200
immigrants a month, including many Laotians. He and his church secretary,
Georgia Phillips, scramble to find jobs, furniture, bicycles and musical
instruments - no matter how bad their condition.  Last December, a fire set by
vandals heavily damaged Murray's century-old church. Not missing a beat, the
pastor encouraged the cleanup company to employ five Russians to help remove the
debris.  One of the Russians used a charred piece of white pine to fashion a
mandolin. On a recent warm afternoon, another mandolin - its wet finish still
drying - dangled from a tree stump in a back yard near the church.  The sight
called to mind the tree that grew miraculously in a Brooklyn tenement district
in the Depression-era story about a young girl's dreams. The mandolin captures
the Russians' determination to work a miracle in this country.  That same drive
was apparent in Alexander Kogan's willingness to postpone more English lessons
so that he could go to work delivering pizzas.  He has spoken the language for
only the four months that he and his family have been in the United States.  ''I
must work for bread and food,'' Kogan said.  Kogan, his wife, Klaudia, and their
two children - 14-year-old Marina and Phillip, 10 - live in a small apartment in
Olivette. Born in Ukraine, Kogan was part-owner of a construction company in
central Russia. He and his family are Jewish. They left the Soviet Union because
of disturbing encounters with anti-Semitism, he said.  The recession has meant
that immigrants like Kogan are having a rougher time than they were as recently
as two years ago, said the Jewish Federation's Susan Walker. Despite their
advanced degrees, many have to take jobs in factories, driving taxis or, like
Kogan, delivering pizza.  ''Even if their English is excellent, it is more
difficult for Russian Jews to ge t good paying jobs here,'' said Walker.
''Places like Monsanto and McDonnell Douglas simply aren't hiring anyone.'' When
his language skills are better, Kogan would like to earn a business degree and
join a firm that trades with what used to be the Soviet Union.  Ilya
Vishnevetsky and his partner, Boris Klimenko, are banking on a better economy
soon. Vishnevetsky coached pingpong, a sport he regrets is not as popular here
as in Europe, where matches claim prime-time television slots.  Two years ago,
Vishnevetsky left what is again being called St. Petersburg.  Once here, he
worked as a cabdriver until deciding to start a business - not an easy task
during a recession.  He and Klimenko started their ''Unique Room Service''
business one month ago.  They offer home delivery for 18 restaurants and proudly
admit they carry more than pizza and Chinese food. ''We have Italian food,''
said Vishnevetsky.  ''We have Greek food. We have barbecue. ''

LOAD-DATE: October 11, 1993

LANGUAGE: English

GRAPHIC: Photo Graphic; LOGO.....AFTERMATH OF THE SOVIET UNION PHOTO (COLOR) by
Sam Leone/Post-Dispatch.....Ilya Vishnevetsky, part-owner of a restaurant
delivery service, taking orders last week on a computer in his office in
University City. PHOTO by Sam Leone/Post-Dispatch.....Russian immigrant
Alexander Kogan (left) sitting in his apartment, with his wife, Klaudia, his
daughter, Marina, 14, and his son, Phillip, 10. Kogan delivers pizzas to earn a
living, even though he holds graduate degrees in economics and physics.

                  Copyright 1992 St. Louis Post-Dispatch, Inc.


                              124 of 268 DOCUMENTS

                       St. Louis Post-Dispatch (Missouri)

                  February 4, 1992, TUESDAY, FIVE STAR Edition

U.S. RETURNS 381 TO HAITI ... REFUGEES DON'T FEAR REPRISALS, BUT RIGHTS;
ACTIVISTS ARE FEARFUL

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 7A

LENGTH: 635 words


PORT-AU-PRINCE, Haiti - The United States sent home the first of thousands of
Haitian refugees Monday, turning over 381 people to Haitian authorities and to
an uncertain future.  U.N. officials and human-rights advocates warn that many
of the 12,000 boat people in U.S. custody face death or intimidation at the
hands of Haitian security forces if they return to their towns and villages.
Officials at the U.S. naval base at Guantanamo Bay, Cuba, where almost all the
Haitians are being held, said those who returned on two Coast Guard cutters
Monday did so voluntarily, while others did not want to go back.  Dozens in the
first group said it had been the desire for jobs and better wages rather than
political repression that prompted them to try to make it to the United States.
None said he feared reprisals.  ''I was looking for a better life,'' said Roger
Rochelle, 30, a father of five who said he left Haiti in a small boat with other
refugees on Nov.  13 and was picked up at sea Nov. 17.  ''I saw there was
nothing to be gained in Guantanamo. I was homesick for my family,'' he said.
Looking resigned but unafraid, the refugees filed quietly off the Coast Guard
cutter Steadfast at the end of the voyage. Most refugees were young men, but a
few were women and small children. All came ashore clutching small bundles of
clothes and other items given them at Guantanamo. Red Cross officials gave them
$15 on arrival.  The United States has denied asylum to most intercepted
Haitians, saying they were not political refugees as U.S. law requires. The
Supreme Court opened the way Friday for their repatriation by overturning a
federal judge's order that had blocked their return for months.  The
repatriation caused an outcry among some politicians and advocates of the
immigrants, who feel that these people will be exposed to political reprisal on
their return.  ''Had we been (from) any other country - white or Spanish - we
would have had a chance,'' Florence Comeau of the Haitian Affairs Committee in
New York said Monday. ''The Cubans can come in any time. The Cubans are people,
the Haitians are people, but one is light-skinned and the other is not.'' In
Washington, White House press secretary Marlin Fitzwater said the repatriation
was being monitored by U.S. Embassy officers as well as representatives of the
Organization of American States and the Red Cross.  ''We have received no
credible reports of reprisals against any individual Haitians who attempted to
reach the United States, including those who are repatriated after the coup''
that toppled President Jean-Bertrand Aristide on Sept. 30, Fitzwater said.
State Department spokeswoman Margaret Tutwiler said 3,609 Haitians had been
found to have a plausible claim to asylum so far. She said 594 previously
returned voluntarily to Haiti.  About 11,000 Haitians remain at the camp in
Guantanamo, including some awaiting transportation to the United States. About
1,100 were on board Coast Guard cutters anchored offshore.  The U.N. High
Commissioner for Refugees issued a statement at its Geneva headquarters
criticizing the repatriation, warning that many returnees could ''be exposed to
danger.'' ''Continuing reports of serious human-rights abuses and violence by
security forces since the overthrow of the democratically elected government of
Haiti are cause for great concern,'' it said.  In a protest that has rarely been
reported since the first days after the coup, barricades of burning tires were
seen in some of the Haitian capital's working-class neighborhoods Monday,
independent Radio Metropole said.  It was unknown if the protest was linked to
the repatriation.  In London, the human-rights group Amnesty International said
the United States was responsible for safeguarding the Haitian boat people.

LOAD-DATE: October 11, 1993

LANGUAGE: English

GRAPHIC: Map; MAP by AP ... Haitian Repatriation ... map of Caribbean Islands
and area of detail.

                  Copyright 1992 St. Louis Post-Dispatch, Inc.


                              125 of 268 DOCUMENTS

                       St. Louis Post-Dispatch (Missouri)

                 February 5, 1992, WEDNESDAY, FIVE STAR Edition

...NO SAFE HAVEN

SECTION: EDITORIAL; Pg. 2C

LENGTH: 378 words


When two masked guerrillas came to his home in Guatemala and tried to force him
to join their cause, Jairo Jonathan Elias-Zacarias refused. Fearing for his
life, he sought political asylum in the United States. But the U.S.  Supreme
Court denied him that dream, in a needlessly cramped reading of immigration law
that undermines this country's role as a beacon of freedom for those who are
oppressed. In his opinion for a 6-3 majority, Justice Antonin Scalia defines
political persecution far too narrowly.  After he was arrested by U.S.
immigration agents, Mr. Elias-Zacarias was turned down in his bid for political
asylum. He won on appeal to the 9th U.S.  Circuit Court of Appeals in San
Francisco, where the majority reasoned that ''the person resisting forced
recruitment is expressing a political opinion hostile to the persecutor and . .
. the persecutor's motive in carrying out the kidnapping is political.'' But
that ruling was in turn appealed to the Supreme Court, which decided against him
last week. It sided with the Bush administration, which had argued that a ruling
in favor of asylum would result in a deluge of refugees who were seeking relief
from persecution and war in their home countries. Justice Scalia agreed, saying
that the appeals court had given far too broad an interpretation to the term
''political.'' In explanation, he said that ''if a Nazi regime persecutes Jews,
it is not, within the ordinary meaning of language, engaging in persecution on
account of political opinion. . . .  Thus, the mere existence of a generalized
'political' motive underlying the guerrilla's forced recruitment is
inadequate.'' In dissent, Justice John Paul Stevens rightly criticized what he
called such a ''narrow, grudging'' view. ''Even if the refusal is motivated by
nothing more than a simple desire to continue living an ordinary life with one's
family,'' he said, ''it is the kind of political expression that the asylum
provisions of the statute were intended to protect.'' Earlier courts had been
more sympathetic to the fears of such political refugees, reflecting the
historic American role as a haven from oppression. Justice Scalia's shift dims
the light of hope that the Statue of Liberty has symbolized for more than a
century.

LOAD-DATE: October 11, 1993

LANGUAGE: English

GRAPHIC: Photo; PHOTO...JoAnn Louise Walter, daughter of James and Audrey J.
Walter of St. Charles, has become engaged to Joel Edward Burns, son of James E.
and Judy L. Burns of Minneapolis, Minn. The bride-to-be is a graduate of Francis
Howell High School and received a bachelor's degree from Gordon College in
Wenham, Mass. She is a graduate student of Andover-Newton Theological Seminary
in Newton, Mass. Her fiance received a bachelor's degree from the University of
Minnesota and is a graduate student at Boston College. The couple plan to be
married Aug. 15 at Knox Presbyterian Church in Minneapolis.

                  Copyright 1992 St. Louis Post-Dispatch, Inc.


                              126 of 268 DOCUMENTS

                       St. Louis Post-Dispatch (Missouri)

                 February 8, 1992, SATURDAY, FIVE STAR Edition

NO PACT ON LOANS TO ISRAEL SESSION CAN'T RESOLVE ISSUE ON SETTLEMENTS

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 7A

LENGTH: 358 words


WASHINGTON - Israeli and U.S. officials failed to reach a compromise Friday
onIsrael's request for $10 billion in loan guarantees, which are jeopardized by
conflict over Jewish settlements.  Secretary of State James A. Baker III and
Israeli Ambassador Zalmon Shoval were unable to resolve differences during a
75-minute meeting at the State Department. Shoval had brought Israel's
counterproposals to U.S. demands to limit future settlement building in the
occupied Arab territories.  After the meeting, Shoval said that his government
does not believe settlements should be linked to the loan guarantees, which
Israel is seeking to help house Soviet Jewish immigrants.  He added that that
view ''is not entirely shared by the United States government.'' ''There is
agreement on so me points,'' Shoval said. ''There is not agreement on some other
points.'' Another meeting will be held after Baker returns from a trip to the
republics of the former Soviet Union later this month.  Shoval said he was
pleased to hear Baker repeat the administration's commitment to help resettle
the Soviet immigrants to Israel.  Since Israel took control of the West Bank,
Gaza Strip and Golan Heights in the 1967 war, American policy has opposed Jewish
settlements there.  The territories are not part of Israel and are the object of
peace talks that began in October.  Autopsy Report In Israel on Friday, an
American pathologist said a Palestinian detainee who had complained of torture
during interrogation by the Israeli secret service died of a heart attack and
not as a direct result of mistreatment. But the heart attack was triggered by
''emotional and physical exertion'' during detention, said Dr. Michael Baden, a
former chief medical examiner of New York City.  Mustafa Akawi, 35, died Tuesday
in a lockup of the Shin Bet secret service in the occupied West Bank town of
Hebron. A day earlier, a military judge had ordered a police investigation and a
medical checkup for Akawi after seeing his bruises.  Baden attended the autopsy
at the request of Akawi's family.  The family has said he was in good health
when he was picked up on Jan. 22.

LOAD-DATE: October 11, 1993

LANGUAGE: English

                  Copyright 1992 St. Louis Post-Dispatch, Inc.


                              127 of 268 DOCUMENTS

                       St. Louis Post-Dispatch (Missouri)

                 February 8, 1992, SATURDAY, FIVE STAR Edition

MYTHS AND FACTS ABOUT ISRAEL

SECTION: EDITORIAL; Pg. 3B

LENGTH: 899 words


The paid political ad that appeared Feb. 3 under the heading, ''Myths and Facts:
Why The U.S. Must Not Provide Unconditional Loan Guarantees to Israel,'' is a
classic example of propaganda hiding behind the word fact.  The organization
that placed the advertisement labels itself the Campaign for a Sound American
Foreign Policy, but its blatantly anti-Israel tone makes it clear that the
sponsor's main purpose is to drive a wedge between the United States and Israel.
The credit, not loan, guarantees are first and foremost a humanitarian issue.
They will provide hope, a future and a home for the 1 million Soviet Jews who
will immigrate to Israel.  Since statehood in 1948, Israel has absorbed more
than a million immigrants, refugees from Europe and from Arab countries,
survivors of the Nazi concentration camps, dissidents from the Soviet Union and
black Ethiopians returning to their ancient homeland.  To link Israel's request
for credit guarantees to the peace process will only serve to hold hostage those
who will be immigrating to Israel in the next few years. While the issue of the
status of the territories is obviously very important, it should not be settled
by using the credit guarantees as a lever.  The disposition of the territories
can only be settled in face-to-face negotiations between Israel and its Arab
neighbors.  Contrary to what is stated in the advertisement, Israel has an
excellent credit rating and has never defaulted on a loan. Given Israel's
payment history, it it is a complete distortion to speak, as the ad does, of the
risks inherent in the credit guarantees. If the authors of the ad had wanted to
project the facts, they would make it clear that the Office of Management and
Budget makes a determination on behalf of the United States of the anticipated
''bookkeeping cost'' of the guarantee, and that Israel has clearly stated that
it, and not the United States, will pay these costs.  According to the
legislation presented to the Congress, the guarantees will cost the American
taxpayer nothing, not $3.1 billion. It is a gross exaggeration to state that
costs to American taxpayers ''range from $29 billion to $116.51 billion.'' The
facts speak for themselves: The Export-Import Bank of the U.S. rates Israel a
''C,'' not a ''D,'' as was reported.  Israel has never received any debt
forgiveness from the United States.  It is public record that Israel has
promised to provide the U.S. General Accounting Office with a full accounting of
how the funds generated through the credit guarantees would be used, who
receives the mortgages, where the dwellings are located and how much they will
cost. Israel provided similar information regarding previous housing guarantees.
While Americans did support a delay in the credit guarantees last September, it
should also be pointed out that the poll referred to in the advertisement was
taken within days of President Bush's decision to request such a delay.  The
fact remains that most Americans are more sympathetic to Israel than to the
Arabs in the Middle-East conflict. Furthermore, 65 percent favored maintaining
current ties with Israel and 59 percent of the people support the current level
of economic and military aid to Israel.  The Campaign for a Sound American
Foreign Policy is paying to have this ad run in major newspapers throughout the
country as the latest attack on the credit guarantees. We must see it as it is -
a concentrated effort to disrupt the peace process, which has strong U.S.
backing and, in the process, cripple Israel's ability to care for its newly
arrived immigrants.  Why would a responsible newspaper like the Post-Dispatch
place a paid advertisement - that is so obviously propaganda - in the most
prominent place of the News Analysis section?  Saul N. Mirowitz President St.
Louis Chapter American Jewish Committee St. Louis This letter is in response to
the outrageous and blatant misrepresentation of facts in a Feb. 3 advertisement
on the front page of the News Analysis section. The ad mounts an unjust attack
upon Congress and upon Americans who desire to assist our ally, Israel, in one
of the most moving, gallant and humanitarian events of our time - the absorption
of hundreds of thousands of refugees.  The version of this ad, by virtue of its
placement, was unfortunately read by many as a News Analysis article. Not only
was it a paid advertisement, it was an ad riddled with inaccuracies and
distortions.  To touch upon just one of the many issues misrepresented: One need
only read the reports by Standard and Poor, Salomon Brothers and the Bank of
America to verify Israel's creditworthiness. Israel is one of only two countries
that have never defaulted on payment of a loan.  The United States will be
deriving economic benefits by guaranteeing loans issued to Israel by commercial
banks. A major St. Louis construction firm is now building immigrant housing in
Israel.  The unequivocal facts are that by providing credit guarantees, the
United States addresses a pressing humanitarian need, strengthens our democratic
ally in the Middle East and stimulates economic development at home. All this
without taking money from the U.S. Treasury, since Israel has undertaken to
cover all administrative costs.  Slick ad campaigns cannot change these facts.
Maury B. Poscover President Jewish Community Relations Council Creve Coeur

LOAD-DATE: October 11, 1993

LANGUAGE: English

                  Copyright 1992 St. Louis Post-Dispatch, Inc.


                              128 of 268 DOCUMENTS

                       St. Louis Post-Dispatch (Missouri)

                February 9, 1992, SUNDAY, LATE FIVE STAR Edition

KLEINKNECHT ACCEPTED FREE TRIP TO JAPAN ... DONOR LINKED TO JAPANESE FIRM

BYLINE: William H. Freivogel Post-Dispatch Washington Bureau

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 1A

LENGTH: 1004 words


WASHINGTON - G.H. Kleinknecht accepted a free trip to Japan last spring from
aman with ties to a Japanese firm that did business with Kleinknecht's employer,
the Immigration and Naturalization Service.  Kleinknecht, the former St. Louis
County police superintendent, became head of the Immigration Service's Border
Patrol when former St. Louis County Executive Gene McNary was appointed to head
the Immigration Service.  On his trip to Japan, Kleinknecht got a gift bag
containing the equivalent of $3,000 and was given an envelope with $2,100 in
expense money. Similar gifts were given to his traveling companions, four other
officers of the International Association of Chiefs of Police.  Immigration
Service spokesman Verne Jervis said Kleinknecht had given the money back
promptly but had not reported the gifts until he returned from the trip.
Kleinknecht declined repeated requests for an interview; the Immigration Service
refused to release a copy of his written report.  Besides Kleinknecht, the
police officials on the trip were Lee P. Brown, New York City's police
commissioner; Robert L. Suthard, secretary of public safety in Virginia; Charles
A. Gruber, police chief in Elgin, Ill.; and C.  Roland Vaughn III, police chief
in Conyers, Ga. The five are officers of the police chiefs' association.  The
invitation to visit Japan was extended at a dinner in Washington celebrating a
$300,000 contribution from NEC Technologies Inc. of Japan to the police chiefs'
association foundation. The money was to fund a Police Leadership Institute.  At
the dinner, Hiroshi Hitotsuyanagi, an adviser to the president of NEC, presented
a check to the police chiefs' association foundation. Also at the dinner,
Hitotsuyanagi invited the association's officers to the all-expense-paid trip to
Japan to dedicate a new Agon-shu temple.  The trip to Japan was paid for by
Seiyu Kiriyama, the head of the Agon-shu religion.  Kevin Chase, a spokesman for
NEC, said Hitotsuyanagi was not acting on behalf of NEC when he extended the
invitation. Instead, Hitotsuyanagi was acting on behalf of Kiriyama, the
religious leader, Chase said.  Hitotsuyanagi wears two hats. He is a consultant
to the NEC president and an adviser to the religious leader.  Less than three
months after the trip, in July 1991, the Immigration Service signed a $3 million
contract with NEC under which the Immigration Service indirectly bought advanced
fingerprint technology from the company.  The Border Patrol, which is under
Kleinknecht's command, put the equipment into operation last fall. Immigration
Service officials said Kleinknecht had not been involved in negotiating the
contract.  The trips to Japan were reported in the Richmond-Times Dispatch of
Virginia in December. One of the police officials who accompanied Kleinknecht,
Virginia Secretary of Public Safety Suthard, resigned as a result. Suthard, who
had been involved in Virginia's purchase of equipment from NEC, was unable to
prove that he had paid back the gift money.  Immigration Service officials said
that Kleinknecht had asked the service's ethics officer, Paul Virtue, if the
trip was permissible and that Virtue had approved it. Virtue refused to respond
to repeated calls from the Post-Dispatch. But he told the Richmond paper that
Kleinknecht had not mentioned an NEC connection.  The police officials, their
wives and other guests were flown to Japan for the three-day trip in late April.
The trip took place during Golden Week, when Japanese workers are on holiday.
Joining the Americans on the trip were a number of NEC employees and executives.
Among them were Hitotsuyanagi and Bill Wells, a retired FBI agent who is vice
president of NEC's fingerprint identification division in Washington. Wells,
like Hitotsuyanagi, is an adviser to Kiriyama.  Chase, the NEC spokesman, said
he could not say how many NEC employees went along but that all were on leave
and none was reimbursed by NEC.  Suthard, the former Virginia public safety
director, told the Richmond paper that NEC officials had met the police
officials and their wives at the airport, escorted them on the train from Tokyo
to the Agon-shu temple 170 miles away and attended the dedication with the
police officials.  At the dedication, Kiriyama handed each guest paper gift
bags, most containing $3,000. Brown, the New York City police commissioner,
received more.  Kiriyama explained later in a statement that the money was meant
as a gift for the wives of the police officials so that they could buy a famous
Kyoto doll. He said gifts of this sort were customary in Japan.  Kleinknecht and
at least two of the other police officials also were given envelopes by Wells
containing the equivalent of $2,100, the Richmond paper said. Vaughn, one of the
others who received this second gift, said the envelope containing his money had
penciled on it the names of Hitotsuyanagi and Tadahiro Sekimoto, the president
of NEC. Vaughn said Wells had told them that it was personal money of NEC
executives.  Kleinknecht and Vaughn both said they returned the gift bag money
and the money from Wells on the evening of the temple dedication.  In July, the
Immigration Service signed a contract to buy $3 million of NEC fingerprint
technology. The contract was with the Western Identification Network a
non-profit firm funded by eight Western states to provide fingerprint
identification technology. WIN, in turn, buys its te chnology from NEC.
Immigration Service officials point out that negotiations on the contract had
begun months before Kleinknecht was brought in by McNary to head the Border
Patrol. William Keller, head of WIN who signed the contract with the Immigration
Service, said in an interview that he had never heard of Kleinknecht.  At a
conference last year the International Association of Chiefs of Police reviewed
the trip by its officers and determined that it was ''fully appropriate.'' But
the association's foundation decided to give back the $300,000 that it had been
given by NEC.

LOAD-DATE: October 11, 1993

LANGUAGE: English

GRAPHIC: Photo; Photo Headshot (COLOR) ... G.H. Kleinknecht

                  Copyright 1992 St. Louis Post-Dispatch, Inc.


                              129 of 268 DOCUMENTS

                       St. Louis Post-Dispatch (Missouri)

                February 9, 1992, SUNDAY, LATE FIVE STAR Edition

BOND SALES ARE CRITICAL, ISRAELI SAYS

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 4D

LENGTH: 346 words


The sale of State of Israel bonds has a special urgency this year, says a
program spokesman, because of the peace talks with the Arabs and the massive
task of resettling 400,000 Russian and Ethiopian Jews.  The spokesman is Raphael
Israeli of Jerusalem, an author, historian and teacher. In an interview last
week, he said he had found much misunderstanding and misinformation about the
occupied West Bank, where Israel is building housing. Israeli said that given
the immigration, housing was badly needed.  All Israel bond money raised since
1990 has been used to absorb the flood of immigrants. But fewer than 1 percent
of the newcomers have chosen to settle in the occupied territories, he said.
The new exodus is expected to swell Israel's population, now 4.5 million, by
about 1 million in three to five years. That is equivalent to the United States
being asked to absorb the entire population of France, Israeli said.  Israel
bonds have pumped about $12 billion into Israel's economy over the last 41
years, he said, and have helped to build schools, hospitals and modern
industries. The money is only about 1 percent of the country's budget, he said.
Avy Weberman, head of the St. Louis office of Israel bonds, said that despite
the recession here and fear of further unrest in the occupied territories, sales
of Israel bonds increased 30 percent last year, to $993 million. In this area,
$5.5 million worth were sold. The Persian Gulf War spurred sales last year, and
the flood of Soviet Jews is expected to produce another record this year, he
said.  Israeli met in St. Louis not only with Jewish rabbinical and lay leaders
but also with non-Jewish officials of institutions that might be attracted to
invest in Israel Bonds.  Israeli teaches history at the Harry S. Truman Research
Institute for the Advancement of Peace at Hebrew University in Jerusalem.  He is
no apologist for the present Israel government. He is critical of its cautious
approach to the Middle East peace process but is equally skeptical of the Arabs'
demand of ''land for peace.''

LOAD-DATE: October 11, 1993

LANGUAGE: English

                  Copyright 1992 St. Louis Post-Dispatch, Inc.


                              130 of 268 DOCUMENTS

                       St. Louis Post-Dispatch (Missouri)

                  February 9, 1992, SUNDAY, THREE STAR Edition

SALE OF ISRAEL STATE BONDS CRITICAL, SPOKESMAN SAYS

BYLINE: Victor Volland Of the Post-Dispatch Staff

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 4D

LENGTH: 439 words


The sale of State of Israel bonds has a special urgency this year, says a
program spokesman, because of the peace talks with the Arabs and the massive
task of resettling 400,000 Russian and Ethiopian Jews.  The spokesman is Raphael
Israeli of Jerusalem, an author, historian and teacher. In an interview last
week, he said he had found much misunderstanding and misinformation about the
occupied West Bank, where Israel is building housing. Israeli said that given
the immigration, housing was badly needed.  All Israel bond money raised since
1990 has been used to absorb the flood of immigrants - to retrain them, generate
jobs for them and house them, Israeli said.  But fewer than 1 percent of the
newcomers have chosen to settle in the occupied territories, he said.  The new
exodus is expected to swell Israel's population, now 4.5 million, by about 1
million in three to five years. That is equivalent to the United States being
asked to absorb the entire population of France, Israeli said.  Israel bonds
have pumped about $12 billion into Israel's economy over the last 41 years, he
said, and have helped to build schools, hospitals and a modern industrial state.
Even so, the money constitutes only about 1 percent of the country's budget
today, Israeli said.  U.S. aid to Israel coupled with Israel bonds sold in the
United States, Canada and Europe account for only 5 percent to 6 percent of
Israel's national budget.  Avy Weberman, head of the St. Louis office of Israel
bonds, said that despite the recession here, sales of Israel bonds increased 30
percent last year, to $993 million. In this area, $5.5 million worth were sold.
The gulf war spurred sales last year, and the flood of Soviet Jews is expected
to produce another record this year, he said.  Rabbi Howard Kaplansky of United
Hebrew Congregation said American Jews here generally supported Israel and
Israel Bonds, as evidenced by a recent poll showing 58 percent of U.S. Jews
opposed to Israel's giving up any disputed land.  Even so, he said, some people
believe mistakenly that American Jews are divided over whether the question of
the occupied territories is impeding peace.  Rabbi Mordecai Miller of Brith
Sholom Kneseth Israel, a Conservative synagogue in Richmond Heights, said that
the phrase ''occupied territories'' had become a buzzword that elicited an
emotional response among those who do not know the issue's complexities and long
history.  For example, he said, many people have forgotten - or never knew -
that the peace accords following the 1967 Middle East war put no restrictions on
settlement of the disputed territories.

LOAD-DATE: October 11, 1993

LANGUAGE: English

                  Copyright 1992 St. Louis Post-Dispatch, Inc.


                              131 of 268 DOCUMENTS

                       St. Louis Post-Dispatch (Missouri)

                  February 14, 1992, FRIDAY, FIVE STAR Edition

SOVIET IMMIGRANTS FORM ISRAELI PARTY

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 10A

LENGTH: 394 words


JERUSALEM - Soviet Jews formed a political party Thursday that they hope will
capitalize on the discontent of immigrants and give the newcomers a role in
parliamentary elections set for June.  Other parties have ''a tendency to hug
and kiss us, but don't do enough to actually improve our situation,'' said Yuli
Kosharovsky, 51, a former Soviet dissident who came to Israel in 1989 after an
18-year wait for an exit visa.  The party, named Da, or ''yes'' in Russian, will
campaign for improvement in the shortage of housing and jobs for immigrants,
said Kosharovsky and nine other immigrants at a news conference in Tel Aviv.  A
well-organized immigrant party could become a force in Israeli politics.  It has
been estimated that the 350,000 newcomers admitted since 1989 could elect up to
10 members in the 120-seat Parliament, where ruling coalitions often are
dependent on the support of small parties.  But it remains unclear how
successful Da may be in the voting June 23. Both the major parties, the
right-wing Likud and center-left Labor, are campaigning for immigrant votes.
The ruling Likud bloc lost its majority in Parliament and had to call the
election when two hard-line parties with five seats quit the coalition to
protest the U.S.-sponsored Middle East peace talks.  A large number of Jews who
have come from what was the Soviet Union are highly educated but have had
trouble finding work in their fields. Doctors, scientists and engineers work as
street sweepers, dish washers and factory workers. According to government
figures, 43,000 new immigrants were unemployed last month, or about one-third of
all of Israel's jobless. The percentage is about double the national average of
11 percent of the labor force.  Finds No Wrongdoing An internal police
investigation has found no wrongdoing by Shin Bet secret service agents in
connection with the death of a Palestinian prisoner, police officials said
Thursday.  Army radio reported that the investigators had determined that the
prisoner's apparent injuries from a beating were within the bounds of ''physical
pressure'' allowed in such instances. But the investigators are recommending
changes in procedures for giving prisoners medical care.  Police Minister Roni
Milo told the radio that no criminal charges would be brought against the agents
who had questioned the prisoner.

LOAD-DATE: October 11, 1993

LANGUAGE: English

                  Copyright 1992 St. Louis Post-Dispatch, Inc.


                              132 of 268 DOCUMENTS

                       St. Louis Post-Dispatch (Missouri)

                  February 17, 1992, MONDAY, FIVE STAR Edition

PEOPLE

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 7A

LENGTH: 404 words


MICK JAGGER has a request for Japanese officials today: ''Gimme Shelter.''
Thelead singer for the Rolling Stones was denied entry into Japan Sunday because
of a past drug record, immigration officials said.  Jagger was confined to a
hotel at Tokyo's Narita airport Sunday night so he could appeal the immigration
decision today.  Jagger, 48, was allowed to enter Japan for solo performances in
March 1988 and Rolling Stones concerts in February 1990 after the immigration
office consulted with the Foreign Ministry, Kyodo News Service reported.  In
1973, Jagger was refused entry into Japan because of a marijuana-possession
conviction.  Jagger went to Japan to promote a movie. He has a role in the film
''Freejack.'' Baseball star GEORGE BRETT was married in a private ceremony
shortly before the start of spring training, his secretary said.  Brett, 38,
married LESLIE DAVENPORT, 27, at a relative's house Saturday in a ceremony
attended only by the families, said Joannie Frey, Brett's personal secretary in
Kansas City.  The couple have no plans for a honeymoon, Frey said. The marriage
is the first for both Davenport and Brett, who met about 16 months ago at a
party in Kansas City.  Actress WHOOPI GOLDBERG, an outspoken critic of
apartheid, has denied reports that she bought property in South Africa, a
newspaper reported Sunday.  Goldberg's attorney, David Dison, wrote a letter to
real estate agent Chris Vorster, asking him to retract statements that he sold
land to Goldberg, the Sunday Times said. On Feb. 13, The Star newspaper quoted
Vorster as saying he had sold a 105-acre plot to Goldberg for about $180,000.
Vorster has now denied making the statement.  Only in America. Comedian YAKOV
SMIRNOFF and his wife, LINDA, took the plunge again on a ski slope, renewing
their wedding vows with a shiver and a laugh.  Clad in a tuxedo and a white
wedding gown, the couple skied to midslope Friday at Snowbird Ski and Summer
resort in Snowbird, Utah, for a brief ceremony in front of fans, reporters and
resort employees.  ON THIS DAY On Feb. 17, 1986, Johnson and Johnson, maker of
Tylenol, announced it would no longer sell over-the-counter medications in
capsule form, following the death of a woman who had taken a cyanide-laced
capsule.  TODAY'S BIRTHDAYS Singer Marian Anderson 90 Sportscaster Red Barber 84
Actor Hal Holbrook 67 Former football star Jim Brown 56 Basketball star Michael
Jordan 29

LOAD-DATE: October 11, 1993

LANGUAGE: English

GRAPHIC: Photo; PHOTO ... No Entrance: (Mick) Jagger in Tokyo

                  Copyright 1992 St. Louis Post-Dispatch, Inc.


                              133 of 268 DOCUMENTS

                       St. Louis Post-Dispatch (Missouri)

                  February 21, 1992, FRIDAY, FIVE STAR Edition

FRIENDS IN HIGH PLACES HELP MARITZ TRAVELERS FRIENDS IN HIGH PLACES HELP; MARITZ
TRAVELERS

SECTION: EVERYDAY MAGAZINE; Pg. 1F

LENGTH: 655 words


THE RIGHT CONNECTION: Thanks to some heavy connections in Washington, D.C.,
Maritz Travel customers were able to make connections.  Here's the story from an
inter-office publication at Maritz Travel: On Sunday morning, Jan. 19, ''a
charter full of participants was scheduled to arrive at Los Angeles
International Airport at 6 a.m., following a cruise of the South Pacific. When
we learned customs, immigration and agriculture inspectors don't report to work
until 7 a.m., we knew we had to do something to make sure arriving participants
would not miss their connections.'' The publication said Maritz's corporate veep
of travel operations, Rog er Schurig, got in touch with Maritz's general
counsel, Henry Stolar, ''who called Gene McNary, commissioner of the U.S.
Immigration and Naturalization Service, and Mo. Sen. John Danforth.'' ''Both
agreed to help,'' continued the report, ''McNary clearing the way for
immigration folks to report to work an hour earlier than normal, and Sen.
Danforth making arrangements to ensure Department of Agriculture and U.S.
Customs people were also at their stations to greet arriving participants.''
Stolar was not available for comment, because he was in Egypt on vacation,
explained a staffer in his office.  That's government by the people and for the
people!  PARTY TIME: Mark Cusumano has asked his ex-wife and girl Friday, Lisa
Green, for her hand again. The twosome will remarry this summer. The proposal
came to light after Cusumano's 40th birthday bash at his Kemoll's, where 80 of
his nearest and dearest celebrated over a chic dinner party. Stan Musial played
the birthday greetings on his harmonica; broadcaster Art Fleming presented
Cusumano with a ''Jeopardy'' game board; and Gus Torregrossa, haberdasher to the
hip, polished the parquets with Mark's sis, Ellen, and Loretta Hackett.  Gus
also hawked the arrival of the clothing line Major Damage at his house of
fashion on Washington Avenue. Also glad-handing Mark were the Rev. Larry Biondi;
Susan and Bill Webster, the Mo. attorney general; gab-caster Charlie Brennan
with his ever-loving Beth Stohr; Anne and Joe Morrissey Jr.; and Annie and
Charlie Gitto, who vowed they've lost their overdupois through Jenny Craig
diets.  LEGALESE: The group making an exodus this week from the law firm
Suelthaus & Kaplan is heading for the Sevens Building in Clayton, where,
beginning March 1, the shingle will read Behr Mantovani McCarter & Capiello. The
defectors include Anthony Behr, head of Suelthaus-Kaplan's litigation
department; three associates - Marleen Ernst, Robert E. Staed Jr. and David M.
Stolze; and W.  Dudley McCarter, a partner in litigation. Labor lawyer Ellen F.
Cruickshank is jumping ship for a berth at Thompson Mitchell.  IN ONE EAR: Some
Washoo Med Center staffers are in a snit, having heard their paychecks may soon
be drawn on the Barnes Hospital account. Thus, their perks will get leaner and
meaner. . . .  St. Louis Aldermanic Prez Tom Villa is tossing another rally.
This time it's on Feb. 28 in St. Louis County's Royal Orleans. . . .  ''Read
your will and call your lawyer'' is how Rambo responds to Herb Balaban's threats
to have him boiled. With wife Adalaide, Herb said they've even put Rambo, their
talking pet parrot, on a diet. . . .  Erstwhile Cherry Diamond exec editor Jim
Baer says he's accepted the post of editor of So, a local quarterly magazine,
due to hit the stalls on March 15. . . .  Beth Hager, who toils in the media in
ChiTown, will marry Jeff Ross, a computer type in Chi, June 27 at St. Michael &
St. George, followed by a pouring at Bellerive C.C. Her parents are Lloyd and
Carol Hager; his are Jody and John Ross. . . .  Former Sunset Hills alderman and
carpeteer Steve ''Batman'' Hartenbach and Jefferson Smurfit speak Terry Ingram
exchanged ''I do's'' on Valentine's Day.  The groom's cuz, St. Louis County
Circuit Judge Jim Hartenbach, performed the nupts.

LOAD-DATE: October 11, 1993

LANGUAGE: English

GRAPHIC: Photo; PHOTO by Suzy Gorman ... From left, William Webster, Stan Musial
and Mark Cusumano at Cusumano's 40th birthday bash.

                  Copyright 1992 St. Louis Post-Dispatch, Inc.


                              134 of 268 DOCUMENTS

                       St. Louis Post-Dispatch (Missouri)

                  February 24, 1992, MONDAY, FIVE STAR Edition

HEARING ON LONGFELLOW SCHOOL IS POSTPONED UNTIL MARCH 12

SECTION: ZONE SOUTH; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 178 words


A hearing on a request that St. Louis grant the International Institute
permission to use the vacant Longfellow School has been postponed until March
12, at the request of the institute.  The hearing before Zoning Administrator
Edward Dobbs had been scheduled for last Thursday. The institute wants to use
the building at 6529 Smiley Avenue for offices and for classes for immigrants
and refugees. The move is opposed by about 60 nearby residents.  Anna Crosslin,
institute president, said that a meeting was planned with residents who oppose
the move, tentatively scheduled for 7 p.m. March 2.  ''We want to educate the
neighborhood. . . to make people aware of the real issue. We don't want to fight
battles at hearings,'' she said.  Crosslin said the institute wanted to listen
to resident concerns and to address them. She said the building would not be
used as a residence.  Crosslin said that Alderman Francis Slay, D-23rd Ward, had
agreed to the meeting. Slay said a place for the meeting had not yet been found.
Longfellow School is in Slay's ward.

LOAD-DATE: October 11, 1993

LANGUAGE: English

                  Copyright 1992 St. Louis Post-Dispatch, Inc.


                              135 of 268 DOCUMENTS

                       St. Louis Post-Dispatch (Missouri)

                  February 28, 1992, FRIDAY, FIVE STAR Edition

A MICHIGAN JUDGE WILL DECIDE TODAY WHETHER

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 17A

LENGTH: 943 words


A Michigan judge will decide today whether to uphold murder charges against
suicide-machine inventor Dr. Jack Kevorkian - a ruling seen as important in the
right-to-die debate.  Rochester Hills District Judge James P. Sheehy is to issue
his opinion on an open murder indictment against Kevorkian, who is accused of
helping two women commit suicide Oct. 23. If Sheehy decides Kevorkian will be
tried, the judge must also decide which charge the doctor will face.  Compiled
from news services CALIFORNIA Seized Trawler Is Brought To Port A fishing
trawler seized on the high seas for attempting to smuggle Chinese immigrants
into the United States was escorted into port at Los Angeles by a Coast Guard
cutter Thursday.  The 150-foot Jinn Yin No. 1 was intercepted Tuesday in the
Pacific Ocean about 400 miles off San Diego, after the Coast Guard captured the
yacht Liberated Lady with 85 aliens aboard three miles off San Pedro, Calif.
The immigrants were from the People's Republic of China, U.S. authorities said.
The yacht was allegedly ferrying the aliens from the trawler to shore.
(Following appeared in 3* edition.) INS officials were interviewing the illegal
immigrants. Some said they were promised restaurant and factory jobs and places
to live in New York City, and some said they had paid as much as $25,000 for the
smugglers' services.  (End of 3* edition.) AP TEXAS Measles Outbreak Hits
Vacation Area With one of the worst measles outbreaks in the country hitting
Corpus Christi, Texas, health officials are urging the thousands of college
students expected to arrive for spring break to get vaccinated first. Since
January, the Corpus Christi-Nueces County Public Health Department has confirmed
191 cases of measles. Dr. William Atkinson of the federal Centers for Disease
Control in Atlanta called the outbreak one of the nation's ''most vigorous.''
(Following appeared in 3* edition.) Some 150,000 students are expected to hit
the coast beaches around Corpus Christi in the next few weeks.  (End of 3*
text.) AP CONGRESS Accord Reached In Post Office Probe The three Democrats and
three Republicans investigating the House Post Office say they have an agreement
that will defuse GOP accusations of partisanship.  The agreement, approved by
the six lawmakers Wednesday in Washington, permits each party to summon
witnesses without the other's approval.  Republicans have accused Democrats of
covering up allegations of drug sales and embezzlement at the post office.  AP
WASHINGTON Collision Did Damage Sub, Navy Says Contrary to earlier reports, the
U.S. nuclear attack submarine that collided with a Russian sub in the Barents
Sea was damaged, the Pentagon acknowledged Thursday in Washington.  Two gashes
have been found on the vessel's port-side ballast tanks, a spokesman said. The
submarine - the Baton Rouge - returned to its home port of Norfolk, Va., on
Tuesday.  Meanwhile, in Moscow, a navy spokesman said the two submarines had
been carrying nuclear weapons and narrowly avoided a disaster.  Compiled from
news services WORLD CANADA Supreme Court OKs Pornography Ban The Supreme Court
upheld on Thursday Canada's law banning pornography despite recognizing that it
infringes on the country's guarantee of freedom of expression.  The 9-0 ruling
also established guidelines for judges to use in interpreting the law. Under the
ruling, portrayals of sex coupled with violence, or sex that is regarded as
degrading, is usually prohibited, but other representations are generally
permitted.  The court said the law's aim of preventing harm to society is a
sufficiently substantial concern to warrant a restriction on the freedom of
expression guaranteed in the Charter of Rights and Freedoms.  AP GLOBAL WARMING
U.S. To Cut Carbon-Dioxide Emissions The United States said Thursday it would
reduce its carbon-dioxide emissions and donate $75 million to help developing
nations do the same, raising hopes for an international agreement to help
forestall global warming.  Negotiations for such a pact - which resumed Feb. 18
at the United Nations - will conclude today without resolving a European demand
that industrial nations reduce emissions to 1990 levels by the year 2000.  The
United States has refused to agree to specific limits on carbon-dioxide
emissions, arguing that this could impose unreasonable costs on industry.  But
the steps the United States is taking to curb its emissions could bring it into
compliance with the demand, environmental groups said.  AP (Following appeared
in 3* edition.) CHINA 4 More Dissidents Get Prison Terms Four more Chinese
dissidents have been sentenced to prison for their roles in the 1989 democracy
movement, a state-run news agency said Thursday in Beijing.  The China News
Service report came two days after the U.S. Senate voted to link renewal of
China's low-tariff trade status to its human rights record.  China called the
Senate move ''absolutely unacceptable.'' AP INDONESIA 3 Army Officers Fired Over
Massacre Three army officers have been fired and four others face trials for a
massacre that left at least 140 anti-Indonesian protesters dead or missing in
East Timor last fall, authorities said Thursday in Jakarta, Indonesia.  The
killings in the province's capital Nov. 12 drew strong criticism from the United
States , and other countries, and from international human rights groups.  AP
ALBANIA Armed Looters Terrorize Town Thousands of looters, some armed and drunk,
rampaged Thursday in Pogradec, a western Albanian town, and police seemed
helpless or unwilling to stop them.  Similar scenes have been reported in other
towns in Europe's poorest country.  AP

LOAD-DATE: October 11, 1993

LANGUAGE: English

GRAPHIC: Photo; PHOTO...AP Photo...Albanian Looting...Looters making off with
food Thursday in the third day of rampages in Pogradec, Albania. Police seemed
helpless or unwilling to stop the looters, some of whom were armed and drunk.
Similar scenes have been reported elsewhere in the country, Europe's poorest.
PHOTO HEADSHOT of ( Dr. Jack) Kevorkian. HEADLI NE: Nation MICHIGAN Ruling Today
In Suicide-Doctor Case

                  Copyright 1992 St. Louis Post-Dispatch, Inc.


                              136 of 268 DOCUMENTS

                       St. Louis Post-Dispatch (Missouri)

                 March 1, 1992, SUNDAY, LATE FIVE STAR Edition

STEM THE TIDE OF IMMIGRANTS

SECTION: EDITORIAL; Pg. 2B

LENGTH: 1404 words


Compassion and charity for those less fortunate are always humane goals.
Unfortunately, limited resources and the impact of other dynamics must be
considered.  The influx of immigrants, both legal and illegal, regardless of
nationality, must be reduced or even halted indefinitely. I do not advocate
closing the door forever.  Nowhere in the Constitution - the entreaties engraved
on the Statue of Liberty were not written by the authors of our Constitution -
does it mandate that our country be the savior of the world.  Immigrants in
earlier years played a significant and useful role in the development of a great
nation. Now this nation faces such things as labor unrest, terrible economic
problems and environmental as well as infrastructure concerns of monumental
proportions. Legislative and high court actions continue to erode the Bill of
Rights.  Yet, the very things people are coming to this country to achieve -
basic freedoms, security, economic betterment, affordable medical care - are
slipping away from all of us. The demands made upon our country now exceed our
ability to afford or properly provide.  More specifically, illegal immigrants
only compound many of these problems and contribute little, if anything, to
solving those problems. Let's clean up our house, not continue to neglect it in
order to clean up our neighbors'.  Thomas E. Reed Affton Wrong Way Judge Timothy
Devereaux's dismissal of James Cox's traffic violations was wrong. Cox certainly
endangered many people on his way to Christian Northwest Hospital, including
himself and his injured son. As a nurse who cares for many victims of motor
vehicle crashes, I feel this type of violation must be reprimanded.  Does this
dismissal set a precedent for all people who have emergencies? I hope not. Two
wrongs never make a right.  Mari Robben, R.N.  Fenton GOP Women The the New
Hampshire primary results have been tallied, and a startling statistic has
emerged: Republican women carried the primary for President Bush.  Enter the
out-of-town experts and the ir lofty opinions and theories. They say women
reject the hard-nosed, male-oriented campaigning of Patrick Buchanan, that women
still stand by their man and all the usual rhetoric.  Let's suggest political
reality instead: The National Federation of Republican Women is moving forward
and playing a decisive role in determining the policies and victories of the
GOP.  On the move and on the ball for more than 60 years, we have finally begun
to come into our own. Our policies and our services offer to women, as well as
to men, educations in politics and the opportunity for self-improvement, either
through our National Campaign Management Schools, or our state schools, such as
Missouri's ABC (About Basic Campaigning) Schools.  As the women's movement
ponders the glass ceiling and the backlash, the National Federation of
Republican Women has concentrated on reaching out to working women and meeting
the issues and needs that are distinctly women's.  Our influence spreads as we
meet working women voters with more than empty promises and open arms. We count
among ourselves women like Secretary of Labor Lynn Martin, Surgeon General
Antonia Novello and Missouri Auditor Margaret Kelly.  We work within the system
to bring forth change. In 1892, 100 years ago, the first woman to address the
GOP National Convention, J. Ellen Foster, said, ''Republican women have come to
help, and we are here to stay.'' The current president of the National
Federation of Republican Women, Huda Jones, said it even better: ''Politics
makes it happen; women make it work.'' More than 3,000 women in Missouri will
help our national federation show that.  Katherine Shaw Burbott President St.
Louis County Republican Women's Club Town and Country Mail Tale The Feb. 26
front-page story, ''Price Soars On Chicago Post Office,'' should cause people to
realize what a money-eating dinosaur the U.S. Postal Service is. But I am sorry
to say that Congress will continue to support the postal monopoly, and most
people will continue to believe the fiction that we have an efficient public
postal service.  If the taxpayer were allowed to stop funding the U.S. Postal
Service, and if the Postal Service were to be shorn of its monopoly in letter
mail, I would bet everything I own that the U.S. Postal Service would be out of
business in a competitive market within five years.  There was a time, long
past, when the Postal Service had a single mission - to deliver mail dependably,
quickly and cheaply. This was also when it was acknowledged that the best
government was a limited government, allowed only to perform a very few purposes
not amenable to private endeavor.  The U.S. Postal Service's monopoly has
outlived any valid public usefulness it once might have had. Now it is just a
tool of Congress and a drag upon the public purse.  Ronald Parsons Chesterfield
Ban Heterosexuals?  Two military chaplains in one week being accused of sexual
misconduct? I assume it won't be long now before the military and the chaplaincy
review their obviously misguided policies allowing heterosexuals to serve.  And
not a minute too soon. What kind of morale can the rest of us have if we know
there are heterosexuals in our midst ready to pounce at any time?  How can we
work in such an environment? Why shouldn't the comfort of the rest of us come
before the wishes of these heterosexuals to serve their country?  This kind of
behavior leaves people wide open for blackmail; and with AIDS running rampant,
we need to make sure heterosexuals won't be in a position to infect innocent
people.  And no exceptions for so-called exemplary records. How exemplary can
these people be if they're heterosexual? Give me a break.  Oh, I can hear it now
- the bleeding hearts will say, ''You can't ban all heterosexuals just because
of a few. It's not their problem if you're uncomfortable around them. You have
to take each one individually. You can't throw people out for their sexual
orientation even if they haven't done anything.'' Whom do they think they're
kidding? That's just courting disaster. These heteros are just time bombs ready
to go off. And when they do, then it's too late. Do you want to take that
chance?  Bob Hansman St. Louis Hold The Phone I hope that Phyllis Librach's Feb.
24 article on voice mail sells many of the systems to my competitors. I will be
assured of having many of their customers calling my business shortly after they
install the voice-mail system.  Contrary to the opinions of the people selling
the voice-mail systems, there are many consumers like me who hang up as soon as
they hear the disembodied, impersonal monotone of a voice-mail system and call a
competitor.  Voice mail immediately makes me think that the company on the other
end has a high overhead and lots of managers who have more meetings than they do
sales. The only way you can make voice mail a more positive experience for me
would be to turn the damned thing off and have a warm human being answer th e
phone.  Sam Longstreth St. Louis Positive Reflection On behalf of about 200
families of Colombians who lived in this area of Missouri, I would like to thank
James Wierzbicki, Post-Dispatch music critic, for his kind and positive Feb. 24
review given to Ricardo Cobo's classical guitar concert. Most important, I would
like to thank Wierzbicki for emphasizing that Cobo is a Colombian.  It is very
frustrating to live in a country where the only images of your native land are
cocaine and Juan Valdez. The majority of Colombians are hard-working people who
have no relation whatsoever with the cocaine business.  Jaime Ramirez Maryland
Heights Towing The Line Elaine Viets' Feb. 18 column told of a Blues fan (1)
whose car was towed from an area that did not have a no-parking sign; (2) who
was unable to get her car back that night because the towing lot was closed, and
(3) who had to pay $129 to the towing company.  I respectfully submit that the
mayor and the aldermen should revise the towing law to protect motorists from
such actions. The law should provide for (1) the verification of the existence
of a no-parking sign before a tow-truck operator can remove a vehicle; (2) a
ceiling on charges imposed for the return of a vehicle; and (3) 24-hour staffing
of towing lots - particularly lots to which vehicles are towed at night.
Raymond F. Buckley Jr.  Mount Vernon, Ill.

LOAD-DATE: October 11, 1993

LANGUAGE: English

                  Copyright 1992 St. Louis Post-Dispatch, Inc.


                              137 of 268 DOCUMENTS

                       St. Louis Post-Dispatch (Missouri)

                  March 18, 1992, WEDNESDAY, FIVE STAR Edition

LOAN PLAN FOR ISRAEL REJECTED

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 1A

LENGTH: 597 words


WASHINGTON - President George Bush rejected on Tuesday a cong ressional
compromise on loan guarantees to Israel, denying Israel the financial backing it
needs to resettle Soviet immigrants, key legislators said.  Bush told the
legislators that he would veto their proposal if it reached his desk. He was
reported to have offered an alternative linked to a halt in settlement
construction in the West Bank and Gaza Strip, but Israel has said it will not
suspend construction, even if it means looking elsewhere for financial backing.
''I'm frankly very, very disappointed,'' Sen. Patrick J. Leahy, D-Vt., said
after meeting with Bush to discuss the compromise. ''This language is not
acceptable to the president.'' Israel had requested $10 billion in loan
guarantees over five years to help resettle about 400,000 refugees from the
former Soviet Union and Ethiopia. The guarantees would enable it to borrow the
money from commercial banks at favorable rates.  Bush met with legislators after
saying that Israel's settlements in disputed territories violated U.S.
''longstanding policy that feels that settlements are counterproductive to
peace.'' ''We have close, historic relations with Israel, and they will always
be that way. But we have a difference now, it appears, in terms of these
settlements,'' Bush said.  ''The door is open,'' he said, but ''U.S. policy must
be accommodated.'' The congressional proposal would give Israel about $800
million in loan guarantees immediately without linking them to a settlement
freeze. It would give Bush authority to provide the rest of the guarantees if
Israel restricted its settlement activity in the West Bank and Gaza Strip.
Congress could override a cutoff or suspension by a two-thirds vote.  Bush's
counterproposal would provide $300 million in the first phase.  ''After that,
the president retains full discretion to issue or not to issue the guarantees,''
said Marlin Fitzwater, the White House spokesman.  The White House said it was
not slamming the door on a compromise. ''We feel we do have a strong commitment
and responsibility to the Russian immigrants and others who are moving into
Israel,'' Fitzwater said. ''We don't think the issue itself is dead. We'll
continue to work with the Congress on the guarantee issue.'' But when asked
whether any further hope of compromise existed, Leahy, chairman of the Senate
Appropriations subcommittee responsible for foreign aid, said: ''I don't know.
Frankly I don't know.'' Two Killed A Palestinian killed two people and wounded
20 Tuesday in a knifing rampage in Jaffa, Israel, police said.  Witnesses said a
group of students had stood and watched as the attack began, apparently thinking
the assailant was dressed up for the Jewish holiday of Purim, in which people
wear costumes and play pranks. As the wounded attacker was taken away by police,
a crowd gathered and began shouting ''Kill him, kill him.'' The attacker, who
wore a checkered Arab headdress and carried two long knives, was shot by a
policeman and died minutes later at Ichilov Hospital, authorities said.
Palestinians identified the assailant as Raed Rifi, 22, from Gaza. They said he
was a member of Islamic Holy War and had been twice detained without trial. The
fundamentalist group distributed leaflets accepting responsibility for Tuesday's
stabbings.  The dead were identified as a 19-year-old woman, Ilanit Ohana, who
was at a nearby garage, and Abdel Ghani Karim, 41, the Arab Israeli owner of the
garage, who witnesses said had rushed out swinging a crowbar to fight off the
assailant.

LOAD-DATE: October 11, 1993

LANGUAGE: English

                  Copyright 1992 St. Louis Post-Dispatch, Inc.


                              138 of 268 DOCUMENTS

                       St. Louis Post-Dispatch (Missouri)

             March 18, 1992, WEDNESDAY, ILLINOIS FIVE STAR Edition

BUSH REJECTS LOAN PLAN FOR ISRAEL PRESIDENT PROMISES TO VETO CONGRESS' $800;
MILLION COMPROMISE

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 14A

LENGTH: 324 words


WASHINGTON - President George Bush rejected on Tuesday a congressional
compromise on loan guarantees to Israel, denying Israel the financial backing it
needs to resettle Soviet immigrants, key legislators said.  Bush told the
legislators that he would veto their proposal if it reached his desk. He was
reported to have offered an alternative linked to a halt in settlement
construction in the West Bank and Gaza Strip, but Israel has said it will not
suspend construction, even if it means looking el sewhere for financial backing.
''I'm frankly very, very disappointed,'' Sen. Patrick J. Leahy, D-Vt., said
after meeting with Bush to discuss the compromise. ''This language is not
acceptable to the president.'' Israel had requested $10 billion in loan
guarantees over five years to help resettle about 400,000 refugees from the
former Soviet Union and Ethiopia. The guarantees would enable it to borrow the
money from commercial banks at favorable rates.  Bush met with legislators after
saying that Israel's settlements in disputed territories violated U.S.
''longstanding policy that feels that settlements are counterproductive to
peace.'' ''We have close, historic relations with Israel, and they will always
be that way. But we have a difference now, it appears, in terms of these
settlements,'' Bush said.  ''The door is open,'' he said, but ''U.S. policy must
be accommodated.'' The congressional proposal would give Israel about $800
million in loan guarantees immediately without linking them to a settlement
freeze. It would give Bush authority to provide the rest of the guarantees if
Israel restricted its settlement activity in the West Bank and Gaza Strip.
Congress could override a cutoff or suspension by a two-thirds vote.  Bush's
counterproposal would provide $300 million in the first phase. After that, the
president would retain full discretion to issue or not to issue the guarantees,
a spokesman said.

LOAD-DATE: October 11, 1993

LANGUAGE: English

                  Copyright 1992 St. Louis Post-Dispatch, Inc.


                              139 of 268 DOCUMENTS

                       St. Louis Post-Dispatch (Missouri)

                   March 23, 1992, MONDAY, FIVE STAR Edition

HAITIANS AREN'T POLITICAL REFUGEES

SECTION: EDITORIAL; Pg. 2B

LENGTH: 1002 words


It's about time we look behind the smoke screen of Haitian ''political
refugees'' and their being barred because of race, as charged by an activist
(Dick Gregory), politician (U.S. Rep. William L. Clay) and publicity seeker
(Katherine Dunham).  If the Haitians were true political refugees they could
walk across the open border to the Dominican Reppublic and thus obviate the
hazardous ocean voyage in leaky boats.  Of course, if they still insisted on a
boat trip to attract media coverage and sympathy, they wouldn't have to travel
approximately 700 miles to Miami.  They could go to Jamaica (125 miles), the
Bahamas (75 miles to Inagua and 375 miles to Andros); Aruba, Curacao or the tip
of Colombia (400 miles); Venezuela or some of the West Indies, i.e., Barbuda,
Guadaloupe, Dominica (all about 500 miles). All would take in true political
refugees.  But the Haitians, opportunists and economic refugees, prefer Miami.
There they can loll in the Florida sun, get monthly checks and food stamps and,
if they get bored, can do what they did a short time ago - riot, burn and loot
in Miami. Then they can blame the United States for not doing enough for them.
In answer to the overworked charge of racism raised by people who complain that
white immigrants are allowed to enter, it should be pointed out that they must
comply with various regulations. Some of these are that immigrants should be
free of communicable diseases, must have a work skill and must either have
sufficient funds or be sponsored by someone, so they will not be a burden or
ward of the government. Recent reports indicate that Haitians have a high
percentage of HIV, have no marketable work skills and do not have funds. This
should prove they are not being barred because of color.  We have millions of
our own U.S. citizens, of all races and colors, who are homeless, destitute and
without jobs. We do not have to import more from other countries.  R.J.
Austermann St. Louis Go, Greyhound Each year around this time I write a few
words to the Post-Dispatch encouraging our lawmakers to legalize greyhound
racing in Missouri. Every year, it seems, a bill to authorize greyhound racing
in our state is narrowly defeated - thanks in part to horse-racing lobbyists and
animal-rights groups.  I am not going to argue that there aren't some minor
problems in the greyhound industry with respect to the treatment of some of
their retired racers. The problem is being addressed. Meanwhile, 19 other states
are currently in operation providing entertainment, excitement and revenue for
their people and their state.  The proponents of horse racing in this state have
no further excuses.  Parimutuel horse racing has been legal in Missouri for
several years now, and not even a single race track has been built. The
horse-racing proponents only need to look as far as the success story in
neighboring Kansas City, Kan., where a dual-purpose facility (split racing
season between greyhounds and horses) exists in a win-win situation for all.
Why can't the horse-racing folks, animal-rights activists and greyhound-men get
together and finally push through legislation to legalize a form of racing that
brings excitement and much needed revenue to our state? Don Broadway St. Peters
Peach's Justice I spend a great deal of my leisure time as a court watcher at
the St. Louis County Courthouse. I see many cases and the disposition made by
the various judges.  In all the time I have attended trials, I have never seen a
quicker execution of justice than that given to St. Louis Circuit Attorney
George Peach. The total time in court was less than three minutes.  Peach knew
his way around, went down the back stairs, across the plaza and avoided TV
cameras and reporters. Where is equal justice? The average guilty person is not
surreptitously spirited out of the building but must face the music at the
regular exit.  Ivan Silberman Ladue John McGuire and Bill McClellan's March 15
article omitted some important facts about George Peach. To state that the
''most singular public identity'' of Peach's career has been his ''crime-fighter
image and crusades against pornography and obscenity'' is to ignore the
prominent role that Peach has played, locally and nationally, as an advocate for
victims of serious violent crimes.  We all should remember the number of murder
cases tried by his office and the difficult circumstantial cases, such as the
Edward Post case, that would not have been pursued by a less tenacious and
dedicated prosecutor.  We all should remember that Peach established the first
Victim-Witness Assistance Unit in the state, a counseling and support service
that has brought strength and comfort to victims of violent crimes and their
families while they try to cope with a criminal justice system that historically
has ignored their rights. Peach drafted Missouri's first victim's rights
legislation. He also created the first prosecutor's rape task force, a separate
child abuse task force and supported the creation of a rape treatment center at
the old City Hospital - all efforts to support assault victims and enhance the
likelihood of successful prosecutions.  Peach's conduct March 10 does not negate
the fact that St. Louis has been a safer and better place to live for the last
15 years due to his service in office. In our minds, he deserves our deepest
gratitude for a job well done.  Judy Raker Bruton Gerard T. Carmody Harry
Charles Former Assistant Circuit Attorneys St. Louis Vote For Education
University City has had and continues to have excellent public schools.  Voters
in the past have answered the call for sacrifices to maintain that excellence.
We are now being asked to support the school board's request for a property tax
levy and a bond issue.  As a parent of four grown children who have benefited
from the excellent educational opportunities provided by the University City
public schools, I strongly endorse the tax levy increase and bond issue.  Sheila
Lumpe University City

LOAD-DATE: October 11, 1993

LANGUAGE: English

                  Copyright 1992 St. Louis Post-Dispatch, Inc.


                              140 of 268 DOCUMENTS

                       St. Louis Post-Dispatch (Missouri)

                 March 29, 1992, SUNDAY, LATE FIVE STAR Edition

WHEN BORDERS OPEN, XENOPHOBIA THRIVES

BYLINE: Thomas Eagleton

SECTION: EDITORIAL; Pg. 3B

LENGTH: 514 words


Freedom isn't completely free. It sometimes exacts a price by fostering baser
instincts that sometimes accompany liberation. In Europe as well as in the
United States, the flow of peoples migrating across sovereign borders to seek a
better life is slowly growing into an explosive issue.  In a recession, when
jobs are short for those already here, it's hard to sell the noble message of
the Statue of Liberty: ''huddled masses yearning to breathe free.'' Territorial
expansion to accommodate growth is over; the frontiers have been reached, if not
irrevocably established.  In the French regional elections last week, Jean Marie
Le Pen's neo-fascist party substantially increased its share of the vote,
running almost even with President Francois Mitterrand's Socialists. Le Pen's
slogan is ''France for the French.'' Times are tough in France, with
unemployment running near 10 percent. Racist music plays loudest from the
taverns, precincts, neighborhoods of the unemployed.  Pat Buchanan found that to
be the case in down-and-out New Hampshire. His tune was ''America First.'' He
wants white English-speaking immigrants to come to the United States, not brown
or black. No more ''Zulus,'' as he puts it.  Come on the Mayflower, not on those
crude vessels from Haiti. Mind you, he says he's not a bigot or a hater or a
racist. It's just the way he was raised at home and in his 1950s high school.
On the European continent, the fall of the Berlin Wall and the end of communism
has unleashed waves of people seeking to escape economic oppression. The
euphoria of brotherly love evaporates when brotherliness requires the absorption
of nationalities one holds in contempt.  West Germans are less accommodating to
thousands of migrating East Germans than they were just a few years ago when a
trickle of Ossies sought asylum in the West. ''My house is your house'' sounds
nice to an incoming few.  ''Get out of my house'' is more prevalent if one feels
overwhelmed. Heroes can turn to nuisances when the numbers change.  Italy turns
its back on Albanians. Hungary wants no gypsies from Romania and would be
delighted to export the thousands it has. Austria, the tiny little nation where
Hitler was born and so warmly received, doesn't want any Germanic people from
anywhere for any reason at any time.  Lithuania, Estonia and Latvia will accept
no further immigration from Russia and, as a matter of democratic policy,
encourages the non-skilled Russian minority to ''return home.'' Democracy in the
Baltics translates into ''Baltics for the Balts.'' Ukraine contains large
minorities of Russians, Poles and Jews. With nationalist fervor rising, no one
knows how welcome those minorities will be in the years ahead.  In Yugoslavia,
centuries' old nationalist hatreds have led to civil war.  Freedom includes the
freedom to hate. The newly liberated often seize it as the first, most genuine
manifestation of free expression. Freedom isn't completely free. Freedom can
travel in the ugly, dark corridors of the spirit.  Communism is dead, but
xenophobia is alive and sick.

LOAD-DATE: October 11, 1993

LANGUAGE: English

                  Copyright 1992 St. Louis Post-Dispatch, Inc.


                              141 of 268 DOCUMENTS

                       St. Louis Post-Dispatch (Missouri)

                   April 9, 1992, THURSDAY, FIVE STAR Edition

THE RIGHTWARD DRIFT IN EUROPE

SECTION: EDITORIAL; Pg. 2C

LENGTH: 531 words


The stresses and strains of ethnic discord have not been confined to the
newlyliberated nations of Eastern Europe. The virus of resurgent nationalism has
also infected the stable democracies of Western Europe. These countries seem
increasingly torn between two competing visions: one of European integration and
another of national or regional identity.  In some cases, internal national
questions once thought settled - or at least conveniently set aside - have
arisen with a renewed fervor. Scottish nationalists improved their standing in
the most recent election. With international attention focused on Spain, Basque
separatism has reared its ugly, violent head once again. And, in Italy, the
Lombardy League, which advocates, at minimum, the fiscal independence of
northern Italy, did surprisingly well in the past weekend's elections.  While
some of these groups may have legitimate grievances about their treatment, they
also represent a dangerous equation of national identity with ethnic identity.
The logical culmination of this kind of thinking is found in the fascist,
xenophobic parties experiencing a revival in France, Germany and Italy. Whether
it's the National Front in France, the Republicans and the German People's Union
in Germany or the Lombardy League in Italy, these parties espouse an
anti-immigration platform that focuses mostly on people of color from the Third
World.  (Indeed, the United States has not been immune to anti-immigrant
sentiment.  Consider the Bush administration's repatriation of Haitian refugees
- and the shocking lack of protest - or Patrick Buchanan, who'd like to see a
wall built along the border.) In part, anti-foreigner feelings are fed by the
recession. People who are economically squeezed fear that foreigners will devour
''natives' '' share of scarce resources - jobs, housing, health care, education.
That was the so-called excuse for the Italians' repatriation of Albanian boat
people.  But the anti-immigrant response may also be an unpredictable result of
the end of the Cold War and the drive toward European integration.  It is now
harder to answer the question ''What is a German?'' (especially when they come
in eastern and western versions) or ''What does it mean to be French?'' The Cold
War allowed for the kind of overarching, dualistic answers that are no longer
relevant. Add to that the rising tension between Euroland and Europe. Euroland,
whose capital is bureaucratic Brussels, is increasingly homogeneous; Europe is
diverse countries and cultures.  There are no easy answers to racism and ethnic
hatred, but the European countries may be trying a backward solution. For
example, German leaders announced that they would work to reform - read, tighten
- immigration laws so that Germany doesn't become an ''immigration land.'' But
Germany - and France and Italy - are already immigration lands, multicultural
societies , even if the door to all immigrants and refugees was shut today.
Fortunately, the hostility expressed by these far right parties is a minority
sentiment. The challenge for Western nations is to keep it that way - and, in so
doing, to defend the ideal of the pluralist nation.

LOAD-DATE: October 11, 1993

LANGUAGE: English

                  Copyright 1992 St. Louis Post-Dispatch, Inc.


                              142 of 268 DOCUMENTS

                       St. Louis Post-Dispatch (Missouri)

                   April 13, 1992, MONDAY, FIVE STAR Edition

MURKY POLICY ON ISRAEL

SECTION: EDITORIAL; Pg. 2B

LENGTH: 691 words


The United States has encouraged Soviet Jews to emigrate to Israel for a decade;
about 300,000 have done so. But Israel is having trouble building decent housing
for them, cutting the recent flow substantially.  During that same decade, the
Reagan and Bush administrations guaranteed loans totaling more than $5 billion
for Iraq (which allowed Iraq to buy $5 billion of additional weapons),
facilitating the rape of Kuwait, which precipitated the Persian Gulf War.
President Bush then called Iraqi dictator Saddam Hussein the moral equivalent of
Adolf Hitler. During the gulf war, Iraq rained Scud missiles on Israel's
civilian population. Israel, at U.S. urging, refrained from retaliating against
Iraq.  To induce Egypt to join the gulf war coalition, the Bush administration
forgave $7 billion in Egyptian debts. Syria was granted $3 billion in credit
(which it used to buy weapons, including Scuds). The United States and Israel
informally discussed a U.S. guarantee of loans to build housing for its new
immigrants in recognition of Israel's ''team player'' attitude during those
tense and terrible days.  When Israel asked the Bush administration for the
guarantee, Bush personally and vehemently opposed the guarantees and berated
Israel in the strongest terms.  Recently, the Bush administration announced
payments on more than $2 billion of defaulted Iraqi loans owed to Gulf
International Bank, apparently in violation of U.S. policy and U.N. sanctions.
Ignoring the forced expulsion of 300,000 Palestinians by Kuwait, the thousands
of Kurds and Shiites slaughtered by Iraq, the hundreds of Palestinians slain by
their brethren for advocating peace with Israel, the headlong pursuit of nuclear
weapons by Iran, Iraq, Libya and Syria and their sponsorship of worldwide
terrorism, and ignoring the 50-year, single-minded, maniacal Arab commitment to
the destruction of Israel, the Bush administration announced yet again that the
major obstacle to Middle East peace is Israeli settlements in the disputed
territories. Alice's Wonderland was crystal clear compared to this.  Richard H.
Senturia Creve Coeur Unhealthy Facts I share the Post-Dispatch's editorial
confidence (April 8) that the people of Missouri are not likely to be fooled by
the ''misinformation'' about state Rep. Gail Chatfield's state-contro lled
health-care scheme for Missouri.  They would be even less likely to be fooled if
there was someplace they could get the facts.  So, let me try again.  When the
Chatfield bill was pre-filed on Dec. 2, 1991, it was to be funded by a 7.5
percent gross payroll tax on business, plus an income tax surcharge on
individuals.  Three months later, the backers said that wasn't going to be
enough; the largest tax hike in the history of the state wasn't going to be
enough. So they hiked the tax hike to 9 percent from 7.5 percent. That, by the
way, is a 20 percent increase in three months, not really ''along the line of
the inflation rate,'' as the editorial said.  The editorial seemed concerned
that Chatfield's opponents might use scare tactics. It would only be fitting
because, quite frankly, the Chatfield state-run health-care scheme scares the
hell out of me. Given the unique spectacle of a tax being raised before it has
ever been enacted, it's hard to have faith that Chatfield offers anything more
than an open-ended raid on the taxpayers of Missouri.  Chatfield's proposal now
demands that we more than double our state taxes; it demands $11.5 billion in
new taxes. But that won't be enough either and, like the drunk at the bar, the
national healthers are going to keep telling us, ''Just one more. Just one more
tax hike, and then we'll quit.'' But they won't be able to quit because while
Chatfield's proposal contains much that would do harm to the quality of our
health care, it contains nothing that would truly control the costs of health
care. Once the people of Missouri have the facts about what Chatfield would do
to our health care, our economy and our taxes, they will be lining up to oppose
it.  Jim Floyd Manager External Communications Blue Cross and Blue Shield of
Missouri St. Louis

LOAD-DATE: October 11, 1993

LANGUAGE: English

                  Copyright 1992 St. Louis Post-Dispatch, Inc.


                              143 of 268 DOCUMENTS

                       St. Louis Post-Dispatch (Missouri)

                  April 18, 1992, SATURDAY, FIVE STAR Edition

BORDERLINE BEHAVIOR

SECTION: EDITORIAL; Pg. 3B

LENGTH: 515 words


In his March 1 letter, Thomas Reed proposes slowing or halting all immigration,
legal or illegal. He states that immigrants in earlier years played a
significant and useful role in the development of the United States, but that
labor unrest, economic and environmental problems and the conservative
interpretation of the Bill of Rights give us too many problems to accept
immigrants.  Reed obviously thinks immigrants take up resources, have to be
cared for and produce little or nothing of benefit to our society.  Does Reed
think husbands and wives should be separated indefinitely? Does Reed think
adopted children should be kept from their parents indefinitely until conflict
ends between companies and unions? Does Reed think companies and universities
bringing in researchers, engineers and financial specialists should wait
indefinitely before they can improve their product lines to promote our export
industries? Does Reed think people who will make big investments in this
country, producing American jobs, should be denied their visas indefinitely?
Opposition to immigration is fear of change and fear of people who are
different. If those fears were expressed about African-Americans, we would
quickly recognize it as bigotry. Because those concerns are expressed about
immigrants, and because ''America First'' presidential candidates have espoused
those ideas, it is simply a more polite form of bigotry. We need to promote
immigration to unite families and to promote economic growth of our economy. We
need to promote immigration of people who will advance our technology, arts and
letters, political thought and competitive edge in the world. We do want to
limit immigration of people who will add significant burdens to our society,
such as professional beggars, career criminals, those who would cause political
terrorism and those who will dramatically add to our public health costs.  What
the Immigration and Naturalization Service can never do, without building an
American Iron Curtain, is to stop illegal immigration. So long as there is such
a great disparity of economic opportunity and a lack of political and religious
freedom around the world, the Statue of Liberty will remain the symbol of hope,
freedom and prosperity for the world. Our society acts as a magnet for the
ambitious, the abused and the desperate, as well as a small, but significant,
number of predators. We have, over the past 15 years, had a new wave of criminal
illegal aliens, primarily involved with narcotics trafficking. Their arrival has
nothing to do with legal immigration. These individuals represent a small mino
rity of immigrants but gather most of the headlines.  While we recognize that
increases in immigration will occur, we do need to be selective as to who we
encourage to enter. We no longer divide people by racial groups, but most
government officials and immigration lawyers believe we should encourage
immigration that will promote family unity and will promote economic growth.
Robert A. Cox Member, American Immigration Lawyers Association University City

LOAD-DATE: October 11, 1993

LANGUAGE: English

                  Copyright 1992 St. Louis Post-Dispatch, Inc.


                              144 of 268 DOCUMENTS

                       St. Louis Post-Dispatch (Missouri)

                   May 14, 1992, THURSDAY, FIVE STAR Edition

SHORE UP BORDERS AGAINST IMMIGRANTS

SECTION: EDITORIAL; Pg. 2C

LENGTH: 1526 words


I read Julian Simon's May 6 pro-immigration Commentary article, ''Why We Should
Let The Haitians In.'' The United States admits more immigrants than all of the
other countries of the world combined - 1 million legally and almost 2 million
illegally a year. The largest Haitian communities outside Haiti are in New York
City and Miami. The pro-immigration claque say that people are a country's
greatest resource. If this were true, China, with one-fifth of the world's
population, and India would be the greatest nations.  On the contrary, the
greatest fiscal and economic power is Japan. In 1948, after losing its pre-war
empire, Japan was faced with living within its borders. In response to the
people's wishes, the goals of a two-child family, government-provided
contraception, legal abortion and restricted immigration, the population growth
rate of Japan was cut. Japan accepts no refugees.  By contrast, portions of the
United States are rapidly becoming Third World areas by the invasion of illegal
residents who are costing taxpayers billions of dollars in health, welfare and
educational costs.  Our country's leadership spends trillions of dollars
securing the borders of Europe and the Middle East yet funds fewer than 4,000
U.S. Border Patrol agents.  Legislation to control our borders is languishing in
Congress, but our leaders listen to the pro-immigration lawyers, agribusiness
interests and clergy who put the interests of non-citizens above the interests
of taxpayers.  Margaret Nast Columbia, Mo.  Taxing Issue Regarding Jerald
vanNatta's May 10 letter proposing health police, I suggest that the first
person to be assessed the health tax be vanNatta for raising my blood pressure,
which may lead to my having a heart attack!  Sue Pfeffle Sunset Hills LA Truths
The May 3 edition was a prime example of slanted news. The paper took the
opportunity afforded by the race riots in Los Angeles to distort the truth, bash
President Bush and promote its candidate, Arkansas Gov. Bill Clinton.  Most
seriously of all, the paper's misinterpretation of the cause of the riots leads
to the erroneous conclusions that the riots are a support of your affirmative
action-welfare state promotions of the past 30 years.  Your reporting has either
missed or ignored the following facts: The police officers were not judged
innocent but not guilty of ''assault with a deadly weapon.'' In short, the
police may be guilty of excessive force, but that was not the charge brought
against them. The jury was right. The prosecutor brought the wrong charge
against the police officers.  The all-white jury was a result of the selection
of a black prosecutor. If the prosecutor believed it was in the best interests
of his case to have blacks on the jury, he could have done so. The fact that the
prosecutor was wrong does not mean the system was wrong.  It is right for the
people to protest the failure of the judiciary system.  However, the looting,
vandalisism and killing are direct violations of people's civil rights and
should be condemned. The smiling faces of looters give the lie to this being a
protest of conscience. The Post-Dispatch, giving excessive space and bleeding
heart liberal justification to the violence, is using criminal acts to promote
its own political crusade.  The paper's editors are smart enough to know that
the jury's verdict was not racially motivated. To pretend otherwise is wrong.
Dan Fischer Florissant The comments of White House Spokesman Marlin Fitzwater
about social-welfare programs originating in the '60s being the reason behind
the LA riots are outrageous. It's the Reagan-Bush administrations' cutting and
abolishing of social, welfare and anti-poverty programs that have led to these
riots.  The let-them-eat-cake mentality of the Bush and Reagan administrations
produced such misery, hopelessness, homelessness and poverty in the inner-cities
that it's no surprise to many of us that we are now sitting on powder kegs of
violence and unrest everywhere. President Bush has made it clear during his
tenure that he couldn't care less about poor women and children or relations
between the races.  America is fast becoming a Third-World nation in which
infant mortality and health care in America are far behind other industrialized
nations, and it appears that Bush, hand-in-hand with big business, wants us
''formerly middle-income Americans'' to work for minimum wage or less. They
won't be happy until only two economic classes are left in America - rich and
poor.  Bush needs to be voted out of office. The LA riots are the final straw.
Let's hope the voters, especially the harder-pressed economically, have the good
sense to rid ourselves of Bush before he starves us all to death and leaves us
all homeless.  Susan Wodke St. Peters Selling Out I am a firm believer in total
public financing of political campaigns because I do not believe that our
candidates for public office should be forced to sell themselves to the highest
bidders.  However, as long as our society allows, even demands, that campaigns
be privately financed, we must not be so naive as to believe that candidates
never sell their support. That said, is the Post-Dispatch trying to tell us that
they believe that our president holds the monopoly on selling access?  Show me a
candidate who can throw a successful fund-raiser without showing up to talk to
people, and I might accept your assertion that Bush did something wrong.  Bush
did nothing that no other candidate has ever done; he just set a world record
for doing it better than anyone else. Do we actually prefer a mediocre president
or do we want someone who does things better than anyone else?  The
Post-Dispatch asserts that the $6 million fund-raiser is wrong and yet it
continues to support Reps. William Clay and Richard Gephardt, two top recipients
of political action committee money. I am far more offended by Gephardt, a
person who claims, indeed is constitutionally required, to represent the views
of his Missouri district, flying out to California to sell his support to God
knows whom - Missouri expatriates perhaps?  Do we really believe that the
Californians do not want him to give them something in return for their
investment in him? Are the PACs that continue to give him money not getting
anything from him? As long as we fight against total public financing of
campaigns, we must accept that candidates are going to sell influence, and it is
completely hypocritical to single out for criticism one person who does it
better than anyone else.  John Loudon Jefferson City Quayle Hunting I know the
Post-Dispatch must present all points of view on the Commentary page, but does
it really have to scrape the bottom of the barrel and include Cal Thomas?  I can
sometimes get through his work without holding my nose, but his April 29 column,
''Let Quayle, Staff Run GOP Campaign,'' really proved that Thomas is a couple of
bricks shy of a full load!  He proposes that Vice President Dan Quayle and his
staff take over and run the Bush re-election campaign. And he is serious! He
extols Quayle's character, intelligence and ability, saying that his recent
speeches show that he can do tough battle with the Democrats.  Get real, Cal!
All that shows is that Danny Q. has learned to read a series of simple words
written by a staff member. It probably took only one power lunch at the Cosmos
Club for David Beckwith to sell this new image of his boss to Thomas.  This
simpering column also says that Quayle running the Bush campaign would
''uniquely position Quayle for his own presidential run in 1996.'' Lordy, how
much far right hokum can the country take? Quayle was simply a young, handsome,
unqualified fellow with a putter until John Sununu sold him to George Bush, and
thereby hangs a tale. Now, after three years of on-the-job training, he is still
simply a young, handsome, unqualified fellow with a putter.  If the job you used
to have is now alive and well in old Mexico, just remember that former President
Ronald Reagan, Bush and Quayle also wrote the words and music to the three songs
on the bottom of all the charts - the ''S & L Waltz,'' the ''Deregulation Rag''
and the ''Big Deficit Drag.'' At the last general election, an awful madness
took hold of me, and I actually voted for this crowd. Shame on me! But this next
time, come November, no way!  Eccles Huff Camdenton, Mo.  Back-Page News?  One
of the most important events in recent days was the May 2 Jobs Now rally by
McDonnell Douglas in regard to the sale of 72 aircraft to Saudi Arabia.
Thousands of highly skilled jobs depend on this sale for years to come. The
Post-Dispatch even had a supportive editorial a few weeks ago.  Some 35,000
people attended the promotional event, which featured speeches from all of our
congressional representatives.  When I received my May 3 edition of the
Post-Dispatch, I was disappointed not to see anything about this event on the
front page. On Page 11D was a report: short, to the point, no pictures and
hidden among other events.  Do I have my expectations too high in rating this
event newsworthy?  Wilfried H. Adelt Bridgeton

LOAD-DATE: October 11, 1993

LANGUAGE: English

                  Copyright 1992 St. Louis Post-Dispatch, Inc.


                              145 of 268 DOCUMENTS

                       St. Louis Post-Dispatch (Missouri)

                  February 15, 1991, FRIDAY, FIVE STAR Edition

MCNARY'S FUTURE AT AGENCY QUESTIONED

BYLINE: Robert L. Koenig Post-Dispatch Washington Bureau

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 9A

LENGTH: 557 words


WASHINGTON - Last fall, the Immigration and Naturalization Service's legal
counsel came under fire when he sharply criticized the management of the
agency's head, Gene McNary.  Within a few weeks, that lawyer, William Cook, was
transferred to another federal job, and he is now serving in the Navy
''somewhere in the Persian Gulf,'' sources said Thursday.  This week, other
heads began to roll at the immigration agency. The Justice Department ordered
the removal of three other top career managers in a shake-up that some said was
ordered by Attorney General Dick Thornburgh to bring better leadership to the
agency.  But officials differed Thursday about whether the shake-up eventually
might extend all the way to McNary, the former St. Louis County executive who
has had the post for 15 months.  ''McNary's still a bit shaky in that job, but
he seems to be safe for the time being,'' said a Capitol Hill source who is
familiar with the problems at the agency. ''He came into a bad situation there,
and he is still trying to straighten it out.'' But another observer, who asked
not to be identified, said that Thornburgh appeared to be unhappy with the
management at the Immigration Service - and ordered this week's shake-up as a
warning to McNary.  ''If McNary can't handle the heat, he will come under some
pressure soon to get out of the kitchen,'' the source said.  McNary could not be
reached for comment Thursday. An agency spokesman, Duke Austin, said that
''there is no reason to believe'' that this week's shake-up would extend any
higher. Austin said the agency would not even confirm several news reports that
the three top career managers - including the agency's comptroller and two
associate commissioners - would lose their jobs.  But Austin did confirm that
Cook, the former general counsel who criticized McNary, was forced out of his
job about two months ago.  ''McNary wouldn't even let him (Cook in the door''
after copies of private memos written by Cook were leaked to the press in
November. In those memos, Cook assailed McNary for what Cook called deficiencies
in both McNary's management and policies at the immigration service.  Austin
said Cook ''was sent back to some sort of job at main Justice (Department, and a
little later the Navy called up his reserve unit. Now he's somewhere in the
Persian Gulf.'' Cook could not be reached for comment Thursday.  Meanwhile, a
panel of outside experts issued a report calling on the Immigration service this
week to revamp its management.  The panel proposed stricter audit controls and
called on McNary's headquarters to exert tighter controls over its
often-independent regional offices.  Thornburgh appointed the panel last
November just as the General Accounting Office - the investigative arm of
Congress - was preparing to release a series of reports that were critical of
the immigration agency. The GAO said lax accounting procedures at the agency had
produced ''a significant and unnecessary degree of potential for fraud.'' But
McNary has said he is trying to centra lize the management of the Immigration
service, which he contends was thrown in disarray by years of mismanagement
before his arrival.  Austin said he had ''no indications'' that the former St.
Louis Countians who McNary brought to the immigration service would lose their
posts.

LOAD-DATE: October 8, 1993

LANGUAGE: English

                  Copyright 1991 St. Louis Post-Dispatch, Inc.


                              146 of 268 DOCUMENTS

                       St. Louis Post-Dispatch (Missouri)

                 February 15, 1991, FRIDAY, THREE STAR Edition

SECURITY OF MCNARY QUESTIONED

BYLINE: Robert L. Koenig Post-Dispatch Washington Bureau

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 9A

LENGTH: 358 words


WASHINGTON - Last fall, the Immigration and Naturalization Service's legal
counsel came under fire when he sharply criticized the management of the
agency's head, Gene McNary.  Within a few weeks, that lawyer, William Cook, was
transferred to another federal job, and he is now serving in the Navy
''somewhere in the Persian Gulf,'' sources said Thursday.  This week, other
heads began to roll at the immigration agency. The Justice Department ordered
the removal of three other top career managers in a shake-up that some said was
ordered by Attorney General Dick Thornburgh to bring better leadership to the
agency.  But officials differed Thursday about whether the shake-up eventually
might extend all the way to McNary, the former St. Louis County Executive who
has had the post for 15 months.  ''McNary's still a bit shaky in that job, but
he seems to be safe for the time being,'' said a Capitol Hill source who is
familiar with the problems at the agency. ''He came into a bad situation there,
and he is still trying to straighten it ou t.'' But another observer, who asked
not to be identified, said that Thornburgh appeared to be unhappy with the
management at the Immigration Service - and ordered this week's shake-up as a
warning to McNary to improve management.  ''If McNary can't handle the heat, he
will come under some pressure soon to get out of the kitchen,'' the source said.
McNary could not be reached for comment Thursday. An agency spokesman, Duke
Austin, said that ''there is no reason to believe'' that this week's shake-up
would extend any higher. Austin said the agency would not even confirm several
news reports that the three top career managers - including the agency's
comptroller and two associate commissioners - would lose their jobs.  But Austin
did confirm that Cook, the former general counsel who criticized McNary, was
forced out of his job about two months ago.  Austin said Cook ''was sent back to
some sort of job at main Justice (Department, and a little later the Navy called
up his reserve unit. Now he's somewhere in the Persian Gulf.'' Cook could not be
reached for comment Thursday.

LOAD-DATE: October 8, 1993

LANGUAGE: English

                  Copyright 1991 St. Louis Post-Dispatch, Inc.


                              147 of 268 DOCUMENTS

                       St. Louis Post-Dispatch (Missouri)

                 February 16, 1991, SATURDAY, FIVE STAR Edition

CALIFORNIA WATER PLAN STOPS SHORT OF ORDERING RATIONING

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 6A

LENGTH: 913 words


Gov. Pete Wilson announced Friday a $100 million drought battle plan to transfer
water to the driest areas, bolster firefighting forces, drill wells to save
wildlife in wetlands and warn wasteful communities to ration.  Wilson stopped
short of formally ordering communities to ration their water, but he said he
would invoke his emergency power to require rationing ''if the local agencies
are not capable of coping'' with strict conservation measures.  ''There is no
getting around it, this is the time for sacrifice,'' Wilson said in Sacramento.
Associated Press PENNSYLVANIA Immigration Brokers Arrested In 'Sting' A sting
operation led to charges against 37 ''immigration brokers'' who paid bribes to
an undercover agent to get employment cards for illegal aliens, authorities
said.  The Immigration and Naturalization Service collected more than $580,000
in bribes intended to help 1,206 illegal aliens in a nine-month sting operation,
the FBI, the immigration agency and the U.S. attorney's office said Thursday in
Philadelphia.  MAIL BOMBS Other Death Threats Linked To 2 Killings The same
typewriter that prepared labels on packages containing mail bombs that killed a
federal judge and a civil-rights lawyer was used to write death threats against
at least 16 other federal judges, prosecutors said Friday in Atlanta.
Prosecutors said ''identical letters threatening assassination were received by
16 other judges of the 11th Circuit'' in late December 1989.  They did not
identify those threatened.  Earlier that month, mail bombs killed 11th U.S.
Circuit Judge Robert S.  Vance in Mountain Brook, Ala., and Robert Robinson, a
lawyer and an alderman in Savannah, Ga. Walter Leroy Moody Jr., 56, of Rex, Ga.,
was indicted on 72 federal charges in the bombings and has pleaded innocent.
Associated Press WORLD LEBANON PLO Factions Battle; 17 Killed, 40 Wounded
Guerrillas aligned with PLO Chairman Yasser Arafat battled followers of a
breakaway officer in fighting Friday that killed at least 17 combatants and
wounded 40 in southern Lebanon, police said.  The clashes flared before dawn in
hills east of Sidon and spread later to a refugee camp near Tyre, another port
farther south. The two sides fought with howitzers, mortars and rocket-propelled
grenades.  (NOTE: THE FOLLOWING PARAGRAPH APPEARED IN THE 3* EDITION ONLY)
Sources at the Palestine Liberation Organization's headquarters in Sidon said
the fighting was between two wings of Fatah, which is Arafat's own guerrilla
group and the largest of the PLO's nine factions.  (END OF 3* EDITION TEXT)
Associated Press THAILAND Dynamite In Truck Explodes, Killing 100 A truck
carrying a load of dynamite exploded an hour after it overturned Friday in
southern Thailand, killing at least 100 people, police said.  Most of the
victims were villagers who had flocked to see the wreckage, police said. 86
bystanders were hurt in the blast on a highway about 480 miles south of Bangkok.
Reuters PERU Cholera Epidemic Stirs Alarm In S. America The death toll neared
100 in Peru's cholera epidemic, and worried South American nations applied
emergency measures to stop the disease from spreading across the border.  On
Friday, Ecuador ordered the fumigation of its border area with Peru and the
cleaning of a rubbish-filled canal that divides the two countries.  Argentina
and Paraguay have refused to play soccer matches in Peru for fear of contracting
cholera.  Other nations have banned fish products from Peru.  Associated Press
GERMANY U.S. Embassy Attack Bigger Than Reported Federal authorities said Friday
that 250 shots had been fired on the U.S.  Embassy in Bonn on Wednesday, far
higher than the officials' original report that 60 empty shell casings had been
found along the Rhine River about 400 yards away.  Hans-Juergen Foerster, a
spokesman for the federal prosecutor's office, said investigators found 250
shell casings in the snow about a quarter-mile from the embassy.  No arrests
have been made, and no one was injured in the attack. The leftist terrorist Red
Army Faction claimed responsibility.  Associated Press YUGOSLAVIA Army Orders
Arrest Of Croatian Minister The federal army ordered its troops on Friday to
arrest Croatia's defense minister for allegedly plotting an armed insurrection,
a military statement said in Belgrade.  Croatian authorities said earlier that
army charges against the minister, Martin Spegelj, were fabricated and that any
attempt to forcibly arrest him could be resisted by arms.  (NOTE: THE FOLLOWING
PARAGRAPH APPEARED IN THE 3* EDITION ONLY) The arrest warrant is certain to
heighten tension again in this fractious Balkan federation of six republics and
two provinces. For weeks, Croatia and Slovenia have agitated for separation from
the central government of this nation of 24 million residents.  (END OF 3*
EDITION TEXT) Associated Press (NOTE: THE FOLLOWING TEXT APPEARED IN THE 3*
EDITION ONLY) PHILIPPINES U.S. Negotiators Make Push For Pact On Bases U.S. and
Philippine negotiators continued talks through the night Friday in Manila in
hopes of drafting a new treaty to maintain U.S. military bases in the
Philippines. Legislative opponents claim they have the votes to block a deal.
Many senators whose votes are needed to ratify a treaty oppose extending the
lease on the U.S. facilities.  Chief U.S. negotiator Richard Armitage postponed
his departure, set for Friday, and officials scheduled a press briefing for
today.  Associated Press

LOAD-DATE: October 8, 1993

LANGUAGE: English

GRAPHIC: Photo; PHOTO by AP ... A buoy that normally floats 20 to 30 feet off
the lakebed resting on the dry ground of Lake Oroville, a key reservoir of the
California State Water Project.

                  Copyright 1991 St. Louis Post-Dispatch, Inc.


                              148 of 268 DOCUMENTS

                       St. Louis Post-Dispatch (Missouri)

                  March 20, 1991, WEDNESDAY, FIVE STAR Edition

STATE OF PUERTO RICO? A MATTER OF CULTURE

BYLINE: George Will  WASHINGTON

SECTION: EDITORIAL; Pg. 3C

LENGTH: 532 words


Sen. Pat Moynihan thinks he has spotted an old serpent in today's political
garden. ''Nativism!'' he exclaimed when a Senate panel killed a bill that would
have authorized a Puerto Rican vote on that island's political future.  Every
president since Harry Truman has affirmed Puerto Rico's right to choose to
retain commonwealth status or opt for independence or statehood. The 1988
Republican platform endorsed statehood. In resistance to a referendum, Moynihan
sees ''nativism, the close associate of racism.'' But not all resistance should
be so stigmatized.  Nativism is, with reason, an epithet. Nativist movements
proliferated in reaction against waves of immigration in the 1840s and 1850s.
There were anti-immigrant urban riots and attempts to legislate a 21-year
residency requirement for naturalization. Liquor, thundered Horace Greeley's New
York Tribune, ''fills our prisons with Irish culprits, and makes the gallows
hideous with so many Catholic murderers.'' Today's question is not whether
Puerto Ricans belong in American society.  Of course they do. The different
question is: Does Puerto Rico, a distinct cultural entity, belong in the federal
union?  American citizenship is a citizenship of ideas. For immigrants, it flows
from individual affirmation. Immigrants become citizens by personal assent.  But
a collective choice by a distinct cultural community like Puerto Rico is
problematic.  Diversity - e pluribus unum - is America's boast. But from the
Soviet Union to Yugoslavia to Lebanon to Canada, the world is replete with
cautionary examples of diversities that are incompatible with the unity
requisite for happy nationhood. Puerto Rico's religious and political values
present no obstacles to statehood. However, language, the carrier and
conditioner of all culture, is another matter. Puerto Rico is Spanish speaking.
Sixty percent of Puerto Ricans do not speak English. An America with Puerto Rico
as a state would be bilingual in a way that, in spite of accommodations for
today's immigrants, America is not.  Bilingualism would inevitably be
institutionalized. Bilingualism denies the link between citizenship and a shared
culture. Already we have gone too far, even to bilingual ballots, which proclaim
that people can exercise the most public of rights while being apart from pu
blic life. Americans should say diverse things, but should say them in a common
language that allows universal participation in the conversation. Most
immigrants want to learn English.  But would an entire island people hasten to
make secondary the Spanish language that is central to their 400 years as a
Spanish and Caribbean community?  Puerto Rico's per-capita income is $5,825,
half that of the poorest state (Mississippi, $11,724). Perhaps half - the
poorest half - of Puerto Rico's population would gain from statehood because of
enhanced access to federal welfare services. But statehood would nullify the tax
break that subsidizes many U.S. corporations there. Such considerations matter,
but a vote for or against statehood should not be based on material benefits.
The important costs and benefits are cultural.  Copyright 1991 Washington Post
Writers Group

LOAD-DATE: October 8, 1993

LANGUAGE: English

                  Copyright 1991 St. Louis Post-Dispatch, Inc.


                              149 of 268 DOCUMENTS

                       St. Louis Post-Dispatch (Missouri)

                   March 26, 1991, TUESDAY, FIVE STAR Edition

DOES AMERICA NOT VALUE ITS VALUES?

BYLINE: William Pfaff

SECTION: EDITORIAL; Pg. 3B

LENGTH: 537 words


WASHINGTON Hangover follows celebration, and in Washington today there is
evident discomfort produced by reality confrontation. The war was fine, but now
it's back to problems that can't be settled by 100 hours of blitzkrieg.  One
such is the politico-cultural implication of new U.S. immigration patterns. The
United States now receives chiefly non-European immigrants: Latin American,
Caribbean and Asian. While those from Asia frequently have high levels of skill,
a considerable part of this new immigration - illegal as well as legal - is poor
and augments existing inner-city problems.  Immigration, of course, is central
to the national identity. We are all immigrants.  The United States has
demonstrated a prodigious capacity to integrate immigrants. However, something
has changed. The machinery of cultural assimilation no longer is what it was.
The public school system for generations took in little immigrants, set them to
their English lessons, told them of their Pilgrim Fathers and taught them to
pledge allegiance to the flag.  Today the public school system experiences
grievous difficulties and decline. Assimilation is no longer the fashion.
Multiculturalism and bilingualism are the mode in educational circles, and those
who defend old notions of how to make good little Americans out of raw
immigrants are considered reactionary American chauvinists, or risk the worse
accusations of racism, cultural imperialism or cultural genocide.  The problem
was demonstrated at a recent conference here by the French-American Foundation,
devoted in part to a comparison of the two countries' experience of immigration.
The French present - officials, politicians, university specialists, writers -
were all but unanimous in describing France's current situation and what to do
about it.  Virtually everyone agreed that France has a level of culturally
non-European immigration, chiefly Muslim, that threatens social harmony.  The
influx must be controlled and sharply cut. Immigrants in France must be
integrated, and that means assimilation to the dominant culture. The instrument
exists, the French school system, which - like the American - has always
performed this function.  The American participants revealed disarray. The
nature of the U.S. problem could not be decided. Discussion was anecdotal.
Little confidence was expressed in assimilation because assimilation as a goal
remains an unresolved controversy. Multiculturalism was defended in principle
with little rigorous consideration of the effect that multiculturalism could
have upon the nation.  This writer was given the distinct impression of
demoralized response by American political thinkers to new immigration. Everyone
agreed that some assimilation will take place, but not in the schools. It will
come on the job and as a product of commercial television and pressures of
consumerism.  The unanswered question was what the United States becomes when
its people find their unity not in what they think, know and believe about
politics and society but in what they buy and how they are entertained. It is
not a reassuring prospect. It deserves more attention than it today receives.
Copyright 1991 Los Angeles Times Syndicate

LOAD-DATE: October 8, 1993

LANGUAGE: English

                  Copyright 1991 St. Louis Post-Dispatch, Inc.


                              150 of 268 DOCUMENTS

                       St. Louis Post-Dispatch (Missouri)

                  March 27, 1991, WEDNESDAY, FIVE STAR Edition

HOW PROMISED LAND BECAME THE GHETTO

BYLINE: Clarence Page

SECTION: EDITORIAL; Pg. 3B

LENGTH: 522 words


CHICAGO When I was growing up, ''country'' was about the worst thing anyone
could call you in my neighborhood. ''Country'' people lacked manners. They did
not put on clean clothes to go downtown. They avoided church and lived off
welfare.  But even our most disheveled country neighbors had their own reverse
snobbery.  ''Proper,'' which they pronounced ''proppah,'' became a putdown for
those who took pains to speak correct English and comply with the other
standards country people didn't seem to grasp.  But while a rich diversity of
lifestyles is presumed to thrive in most American ethnic communities, it is
brushed over in accounts of African-American life in favor of underclass
stereotypes.  It was the roots of the underclass that Atlantic magazine's
Nicholas Lemann pursued in his ambitious book, ''The Promised Land: The Great
Black Migration and How It Changed America.'' Lemann believed they could be
found in the immigrants who came from the rural South to black neighborhoods but
failed to adjust to big-city life.  Through personal profiles and key events,
Lemann describes how America was changed by one of history's biggest mass
movements, the migration of 6.5 million blacks from the rural South to the urban
North and West between 1910 and 1970.  He shows how dreams of better-paying jobs
in the seemingly egalitarian North were crushed for many by Northern racism,
which deprived most blacks of equal pay and kept them out of trade unions and
white neighborhoods.  Lemann also cuts away to Washington in a long and
enlightening chapter to discuss the successes and failures of anti-poverty
policy in the 1960s. An excellent companion work, ''There Are No Children
Here,'' by The Wall Street Journal's Alex Kotlowitz, puts us into the lives of
the end products of Lemann's migration - inner-city children.  ''To be born into
a ghetto is to be consigned to a fate that no American should have to suffer,''
says Lemann. ''The more clearly we can be made to see that and to understand the
causes of the situation, the less likely it is that we will let it stand.'' In
spite of popular wisdom, Lemann points out, a number of War on Poverty programs,
particularly Head Start and Job Corps, did succeed.  Unfortunately, they are
underfunded, reaching only a fraction of the young people who need them. And, as
Kotlowitz shows, recent pilot projects to clean up public housing ghettos have
worked well, too, earning high praise from the Bush administration but precious
little money.  But as much as I believe government must do more to break the
cycles of poverty, there also is much that we, the more fortunate products of
the black migration, need to do to bridge the gaps between the ''country''
people and the ''proppah-speaking'' folks in our own communities.  Kotlowitz
offers a bright example when he admits that he is using proceeds from his book
to enroll two boys in a private, black-run high school.  Whether his book makes
a difference in poverty or not, at least Kotlowitz will be able to say he made a
difference. It may not change the world, but it's a start.  Copyright 1991
Chicago Tribune

LOAD-DATE: October 8, 1993

LANGUAGE: English

                  Copyright 1991 St. Louis Post-Dispatch, Inc.


                              151 of 268 DOCUMENTS

                       St. Louis Post-Dispatch (Missouri)

                  March 30, 1991, SATURDAY, FIVE STAR Edition

ENGLAND CHURCH RUNS ITS FIRST RADIO ADS

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 9A

LENGTH: 872 words


The Church of England went to the airwaves recently with its first radio
advertising campaign in an attempt to swell Easter congregations.  This follows
a change in British broadcasting rules to allow religious groups to advertise so
long as they do not try to convert people.  ''It's the first time the Church of
England has advertised on radio,'' Robert Ellis, communications officer for the
diocese of Lichfield, which bought the radio time, said Friday.  Church of
England officials said it was up to each diocese to decide its own media
strategy.  Reuters SOVIET JEWS Immigrants Celebrate Public Seders More than
200,000 Soviet Jews are celebrating their first Passover this year in the Jewish
state.  Since exit policies were loosened in the spring of 1989, 230,000 Soviet
Jews have immigrated to Israel. Most have come in the past year, and Israel
expects 300,000 more this year.  Large public seders were arranged for Soviet
immigrants in some towns, and others en route to Israel were celebrating at
seders organized at transit stations in Budapest, Bucharest and Warsaw, Israeli
officials said.  The Associated Press NATION BAPTISM Bishops Back Traditional
Wording Bishops of the Evangelical Lutheran Church in America say that the only
doctrinally acceptable way for a person to be baptized is ''in the name of the
Father, and of the Son, and of the Holy Spirit.'' The usage had become an issue
because some pastors see the traditional formulation as sexist and have begun
baptizing instead in the name of the ''Creator, Redeemer and Sanctifier.'' The
bishops, in a unanimous statement, said that ''we must be pastoral and sensitive
in speaking to the issues of our time. Yet we must also be responsible in
maintaining the integrity of our orthodox Christian tradition.'' Declaring that
Christians ''dare not confuse our proclamation about God and our invocation of
God,'' the bishops said: ''In speaking about God, creative use of both masculine
and feminine metaphors, analogies, similes and symbols are highly appropriate
and recommended for both Scripture and tradition. . . .  ''None of these
diversified figures of speech, however, may rightly be employed as exchangeable
equivalents of God's name - 'Father, Son and Holy Spirit.' '' The Associated
Press NEWS COVERAGE Catholic Church Portrayal Studied News coverage of the Roman
Catholic Church depicts it as conservative, authoritarian and outmoded, but such
reporting is also generally balanced and factual, according to a survey of four
major news organizations.  The study by the Center for Media and Public Affairs
in Washington examined church coverage by The New York Times, The Washington
Post, Time magazine and CBS News over three five-year periods from 1964 to 1988.
The study was sponsored by the Knights of Columbus and the Catholic League for
Religious and Civil Rights.  The study, which counted up sources quoted for and
against church positions, said that more of the cited sources criticized various
teachings than defended them.  It also found that church conflicts often were
presented as between the church hierarchy and lower-level clergy, laity and
others.  ''The result was a long-running media drama that pitted a hidebound
institutional hierarchy against reformers from within and without,'' the report
said.  The Associated Press CATHOLIC PRIESTS 80 Percent Satisfied, Survey Finds
Roman Catholic priests, portrayed recently as badly overburdened and discontent,
apparently aren't as fretful in their work as the common image has it.  In fact,
a broad new survey finds that 80 percent of the relatively young priests are
satisfied with their vocations and that if they had it to do over again, they
still would enter the pri esthood.  Ninety percent said they were ''happy'' in
their role, and as their ranks thin, they have no difficulties working side by
side with lay leaders and nuns.  The survey involved responses from 1,519
priests ordained between 1980 and 1984, with six to nine years of active
ministry. Most were in their late 30s, age 34 to 40.  The Associated Press
HOSPITAL HONORED Deaconess Ministry Program Honored A program at Deaconess
Health Services in St. Louis won the Innovative Program of the Year Award from a
national body of the United Church of Christ.  The award went to the Diaconal
Ministry Program, which trains men and women to work in a variety of roles in
nursing homes, hospitals and other health-care centers.  The award is given by
the council for Health and Human Service Ministries of the United Church of
Christ, a 1.6 million-member Protestant denomination.  Deaconess Hospital in St.
Louis and Eden Seminary in Webster Groves are affiliated with the denomination.
PARIS 1st Cathedral In 150 Years To Start Catholic Church officials in France
will mark a resurrection of sorts on Easter Sunday, in addition to commemorating
Christianity's belief in the resurrection of Jesus Christ.  The first stone of
the futuristic Cathedral of the Resurrection - the first cathedral to be built
in France for nearly 150 years - will be laid Sunday at an Easter ceremony.  The
ceremony will take place in the city of Evry, a hub for fast-growing blue-collar
and middle-class suburbs south of Paris.

LOAD-DATE: October 8, 1993

LANGUAGE: English

                  Copyright 1991 St. Louis Post-Dispatch, Inc.


                              152 of 268 DOCUMENTS

                       St. Louis Post-Dispatch (Missouri)

                 April 7, 1991, SUNDAY, LATE FIVE STAR Edition

A WORLD OF FLAVOR ALMOST EVERY CUISINE HAS ITS VERSION OF AN INTERNATIONAL;
FAVORITE, CHICKEN AND RICE

BYLINE: Barbara Gibbs Ostmann Post-Dispatch Special Correspondent

SECTION: PD MAGAZINE; Pg. 18

LENGTH: 1329 words


FOOD IS an international language, as travelers soon learn. Sampling the local
and regional specialties of an area can be the most pleasant part of a trip, and
a key way of getting to know the culture and customs of the country.  For
immigrants in a new land, preparing the traditional foods of their native
country is a way of preserving their heritage.  In the United States, the great
melting pot, the foods of the various homelands of the immigrants were embraced
and incorporated into the American diet. Some dishes became so American that
their original heritages were almost obliterated - the pizza pie is a classic
example of a ''foreign'' food that is now totally American. Pizza as we know and
love it bears little resemblance to its cousins in Italy.  Another example of a
dish that has evolved from its original roots and taken on the flavors and
nuances of the various stages of its development is Chicken Country Captain, now
commonly heralded as a Southern dish but with roots going back to India and
Great Britain.  Chicken is an international food - a part of the culture and
culinary tradition of almost every nation. And chicken and rice is perhaps the
most classic combination, with some version offered by nearly every cuisine.
Country Captain is but one variation on this traditional duo.  According to Jean
Thwaite, retired food writer for the Atlanta (Ga.) Journal-Constitution, ''No
one really seems to know the origin of the dish. Some say it was brought back
from India to England by a British navy officer.  Others say it was a favorite
in the English countryside and was originally called Country Capon.  ''The story
Georgians like best,'' says Thwaite, ''is that it was created by an inventive
Columbus cook for Franklin Delano Roosevelt when he was at the Little White
House in Warm Springs.'' According to information from the National Broiler
Council, the late Mrs.  W. L. Bullard, a Columbus socialite, often entertained
Roosevelt at the Bullards' summer home in Warm Springs. Legend has it that she
and her cook, Arie, experimented with numerous recipes for Country Captain found
in old cookbooks until they came up with their now-famous version, which they
served to Roosevelt.  Others who are reported to have dined on Bullard's
chicken-and rice dish include Generals John J. Pershing, George C. Marshall,
George Patton, Dwight D. Eisenhower and Omar Bradley. While en route to Europe
during World War II, Patton's schedule took him to Fort Benning for a day. He
wired the Columbus hostess: ''If you can't give me a party and serve Country
Captain, meet me at the train with a bucket of the stuff.'' Another version of
the origin of the dish appears in ''Georgia Heritage,'' published by the
Colonial Dames, says Thwaite. In that book, a prominent hostess from Athens,
Ga., writes that, early in the 1900s, her mother radically changed a recipe from
a cookbook by Alexandre Fillipini, a chef at Delmonico's, the noted New York
restaurant. Her revised recipe became a party favorite and was taken all over
the world by Army friends. Her mother's butler-chef ended up as a chef at the
White House and introduced it to Roosevelt.  Still another version of the tale
comes from the National Broiler Council, which says the dish originated in
India, where curry is the most widely used seasoning. Curry ingredients were a
part of the international spice trade even before the British and Dutch East
India companies were formed in the 17th century.  Residents of both Charleston,
S. C., and Savannah, Ga., relate the story of a sea captain who supposedly gave
his hostess some curry spices in appreciation of her hospitality while his ship
was in port. Some say he included the recipe for Country Captain. Others say an
inventive Southern homemaker (in whatever city the story is being told) created
the dish using locally grown rice and chicken.  A more widely accepted version,
according to the council, is that the name Country Captain came from the term
applied by the British to a captain of the Sepoys, natives of India who were
trained as soldiers and paid by the British.  British soldiers developed a taste
for the curried chicken and rice dish while serving in India and introduced it
to their homeland. It was then probably carried across the Atlantic Ocean by
Anglo-Saxon settlers along with other dishes ''from home.'' No matter which
version of the story you choose to believe, the evolution of the dish shows how
cultures and cuisines mingle and mix - with delicious results. This Anglo-Indian
chicken dish which crossed the Atlantic in the nation's infancy has survived to
become one of the true classics of American cookery.  The earliest published
version of the recipe appeared in Eliza Leslie's ''Miss Leslie's New Cookery
Book'' in 1857. The late James Beard, dean of American cookery, wrote, ''Apart
from Southern fried chicken, probably this is the most important chicken dish we
have inherited.'' Just as the stories vary, so do the recipes for the dish.
''Some versions call for using a hen, cooking it and pulling the meat off the
bones,'' says Thwaite. ''The most recent recipes use chicken breasts. The one
constant seems to be that to be authentic, the recipe must call for currants and
slivered toasted almonds. No raisins and pecans allowed.'' This version of the
dish was shared by Thwaite in ''Food Editors'' Hometown Favorites Cookbook''
(out of print) and is as authentic as any.  CHICKEN COUNTRY CAPTAIN 12 chicken
breast halves (or chicken parts of choice) Flour and salt, for dredging chicken
2 generous tablespoons lard (health-conscious cooks can substitute vegetable oil
or shortening vegetable oil or shortening) 2 onions, finely diced 2 greem bell
peppers, diced 2 ribs celery, thinly sliced 2 cloves garlic, crushed 2
(16-ounce) can whole tomatoes, broken up 1/2 teaspoon white pepper 1/2 teaspoon
dried thyme 1 to 2 teaspoons curry powder, to taste Salt to taste Water or
chicken broth 3 heaping tablespoons currants soaked in 1 tablespoon white or red
wine Cooked fluffy white rice (to serve 12) 1/4 pound (4 ounces) almonds,
blanched, slivered and toasted 1 teaspoon chopped fresh parsley Coat chicken
pieces with flour; sprinkle with a little salt. Heat lard in skillet. Fry
chicken gently, turning occasionally, until brown on all sides, about 15
minutes; you will probably need to do this in batches. Remove chicken from
skillet; put into large casserole dish and keep warm.  Gently wilt onion, green
pepper, celery and garlic in drippings in skillet.  Add tomatoes with their
liquid, white pepper, thyme and curry powder; mix well. Taste and adjust for
salt, pepper and acidity. (Some canned tomatoes are more acidic than others and
may need a little sugar.) Pour tomato mixture over chicken in casserole. Add a
little water (or broth) to skillet and stir to loosen pan drippings; pour over
mixture in casserole. Cover tightly and cook on stovetop until chicken is
tender, about 30 to 40 minutes. (Or, bake in 375-degree oven until chicken is
tender, about 45 minutes.) Meanwhile, warm currants in wine until they plump.
Place chicken breasts on warmed serving platter. Make ring of rice around
chicken. Add currants to tomato sauce; pour sauce over rice and chicken. Scatter
almonds over rice.  Sprinkle parsley over all.  Yield: 6 to 12 servings.  Note:
Curries are much better if made a day ahead of time; the seasonings blend into
the meat much better. Rice can be cooked a day ahead, sealed in foil and
reheated with the Country Captain.  For a free recipe brochure containing six
international chicken recipes, send a self-addressed, stamped, business-size
envelope to: Chicken, An International Favorite, c/o National Broiler Council,
Drawer PD, P. 0. Box 5806, Columbia, S. C. 29250. .  Barbara Gibbs Ostmann,
former Post-Dispatch food editor, is an assistant professor at the University of
Missouri, 1-98 Agriculture Building, University of Missouri, Columbia, Mo.
65211.

LOAD-DATE: October 13, 1993

LANGUAGE: English

GRAPHIC: Photo; PHOTO (COLOR)....Chicken Country Captain, a classic Southern
dish with roots in India and Great Britian, is a good example of multi-cultural
cookery.

                  Copyright 1991 St. Louis Post-Dispatch, Inc.


                              153 of 268 DOCUMENTS

                       St. Louis Post-Dispatch (Missouri)

                  April 13, 1991, SATURDAY, FIVE STAR Edition

HARMONY AT HOME

SECTION: EDITORIAL; Pg. 3B

LENGTH: 687 words


William Pfaff's March 26 column, ''Does America Not Value Its Values?'' was a
frightening example of the monocultural intolerance that has too long
characterized the domestic and foreign policies of the United States. I agree
that careful study and implementation are necessary to assess the potential
repercussions of any policy. However, I cannot acc ept the implication that
multiculturalism and bilingualism will inevitably threaten social and political
harmony, nor can I leave unchallenged condescending and erroneous comments.  (1)
It is not a new phenomenon that a considerable part of the immigrant population
is poor. The inscription on the Statue of Liberty invites them specifically. We
cannot conveniently blame our existing social ills on those who would accept
that invitation today.  (2) We are not all immigrants. Those of us who are
descendants of immigrants can no longer deny an identity to those whose
ancestors populated this land before the European invasion.  (3) One assertion
is undeniable: Something has changed. That something is not merely the machinery
of assimilation but the world itself. In the 19th century context of limited
travel to and communication with other lands and cultures, it was possible to
impose the veneer of assimilation and blindly assume the resultant harmony and
unity to be genuine. As we approach the 21st century, however, we can no longer
ignore the various ethnic populations that immigrated (by choice or by force) to
this country and who will continue to do so.  (4) Multiculturalism is more
substantial than mode or fashion. It is a new way to look at a new world. Recent
technological advances in communications have jolted human beings from their
isolation and challenge us to know, understand and appreciate our neighbors, no
matter what their culture, place of birth or current residence.  (5) Immigrants
are never ''raw.'' Whether born in Europe, Latin America, Asia or Africa, the
individual brings a wealth of linguistic and cultural heritage to this country.
In an atmosphere of mutual understanding, this country could benefit greatly
from its diverse population.  If North American values are based truly on a
solid foundation of liberty and justice for all and not on a self-serving set of
status-quo attitudes, then this country need not fear the political involvement
of non-European people, no matter their economic status. We could then aspire to
something more than the stagnant conformity of assimilation and temper our cold,
seemingly efficient North American perspective with the warmth of a culture more
grounded in humanity.  Martha L. Peterka Affton Why is William Pfaff so
concerned by U.S. immigration patterns? Because most of the people who are
coming to this nation are not chiefly Europeans or Asians but from poor Latin
American or Caribbean countries? Which would Pfaff prefer: a computer expert
from Romania, El Salvador or Vietnam? Probably one of them will be the best to
clean your house or do the garden.  Are we - immigrants - responsible for racism
in the United States? Do we increase the U.S. deficit? Do we contribute to
forcing American buyers to get foreign cars and not such antiques called Ford,
Chevrolet or Dodge? Did we teach Police Chief Daryl Gates how to deal with a
traffic violation in Los Angeles?  Are we stupid enough to be the only reason
for the misery in our countries?  Are we mentally retarded because we have some
accent when we speak English or because some people among immigrants do not
speak English? How many skilled Americans speak French, German, Italian,
Portuguese, Greek, Japanese or Chinese? Who has been paying Gen. Manuel Noriega
during the past recent years? Who has been selling weapons to Saddam Hussein? We
non-skilled immigrants?  Are we responsible for the state of education in the
United States? Are we the reason for xenophobia in the United States? Did we
invent inner cities? Did we decide what kind of vice president should serve this
nation?  Is Pfaff really thinking seriously? Are immigrants responsible for
America's poor ideas?  Rafael E. Saumell Overland

LOAD-DATE: October 13, 1993

LANGUAGE: English

                  Copyright 1991 St. Louis Post-Dispatch, Inc.


                              154 of 268 DOCUMENTS

                       St. Louis Post-Dispatch (Missouri)

                  April 24, 1991, WEDNESDAY, FIVE STAR Edition

SOCIAL SECURITY MYSTERY RESOLVED SUSPECTED ALIEN IN CALIFORNIA ACCUSED OF; USING
ARNOLD WOMAN'S NUMBER

BYLINE: Fred W. Lindecke Of the Post-Dispatch Staff

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 3A

LENGTH: 434 words


''I'm just so glad it's over,'' said Mary Lou Wingbermuehle of Arnold. For
sixyears, she has been trying to eliminate a nagging problem of a woman in
California using her Social Security number.  Now the woman finally has been
arrested, and Social Security is straightening out Wingbermuehle's records so
that her benefits will not be threatened.  Immigration and Naturalization
Service agents arrested Octavia Beltran-Tirado on Friday at a fast-food
restaurant where she worked in National City, a suburb of San Diego. She is
being held on $100,000 bail on charges of making false statements regarding her
Social Security number.  Wingbermuehle said INS officials had told her that
Beltran-Tirado apparently had used Wingbermuehle's maiden name and Social
Security number for 20 years.  INS officials said Beltran-Tirado, 41, born in
Tijuana, Mexico, evidently bought Wingbermuehle's Social Security number and a
copy of her birth certificate from the network that provides such things for
illegal immigrants.  Wingbermuehle, 42, is married and has two sons, 16 and 4.
She processes Social Security disability claims at a state office in Affton.
She said that in 1985, she began getting notices from the Internal Revenue
Service that she was failing to report income earned in California. Each year,
she satisfied the IRS with documents proving she did not live in California.  In
1988, when purchasing a home in Arnold, Wingbermuehle received a credit report
showing she had purchased a car in California. Wingbermuehle used this
information to telephone Beltran-Tirado, who told her her name was Mary Lou
Cursio. ''At the time, I thought a mistake had been made and we both had the
same number. It's rare, but it's happened before,'' Wingbermuehle said. Since
she knew Social Security regulations, she advised Beltran-Tirado to get her
records straight, or Beltran-Tirado's benefits would be jeopardized.  But the
IRS notices continued. Last year, a friend in Social Security checked on the
case and informed Wingbermuehle that the California woman appeared to be an
illegal immigrant. That's when Wingbermuehle reported the case to the
immigration agency for the first time.  Now that Beltran-Tirado has been
arrested, Wingbermuehle said, ''I'm just glad she never committed a crime. She
could have ruined my life just by writing bad checks.'' For the moment,
Wingbermuehle is a celebrity. ''I've been inundated by phone calls from
California reporters, and tomorrow I'm going to be on a San Diego talk show,''
she said.  The Associated Press contributed information for this story.

LOAD-DATE: October 13, 1993

LANGUAGE: English

GRAPHIC: Photo; PHOTO HEADSHOT...Mary Lou Wingbermuehle...Kept getting IRS
notices

                  Copyright 1991 St. Louis Post-Dispatch, Inc.


                              155 of 268 DOCUMENTS

                       St. Louis Post-Dispatch (Missouri)

                   April 26, 1991, FRIDAY, FIVE STAR Edition

IMMIGRANT INFLUX MAKES U.S. GREAT

SECTION: EDITORIAL; Pg. 2C

LENGTH: 1506 words


To all those who worry about the influx of Hispanic, Asian and other
non-whiteethnic groups into our country, I wish I could take them 100 or so
years into the future, when this influx will probably be clearly seen for just
what it is - a dynamic and necessary transfusion into our culture of people with
the hopes, aspirations and energy needed to remake and revitalize the American
dream.  My father was part of the great wave of European immigration that
occurred in the early part of this century. I know from personal experience the
great contributions he and his contemporaries made to American culture. And I
know from common sense that our new immigrants seek the exact same things my
parents sought - freedom to be whatever they thought they could be, a place to
raise their children in hope of a better life and a place where the government
represented safety and protection instead of oppression.  America was never
meant to be just one thing forever. Our deliberately vague Constitution requires
that it be re-invented by each generation to meet its needs and fulfill its
desires. In part of our history, we've had a white America. In our future, we'll
have many other Americas. The only thing America guarantees is the freedom to be
the best that we can be. Like my father and his friends, all these people
following their dream to our shores are the future and the strength of our
country. If people can't understand that, then they don't understand the most
basic truth about the world's most remarkable experiment in self-government.
Anyone who has the strength and the courage to uproot oneself and one's family
in search of a better life deserves our welcome and respect. It is no accident
that our country has been so successful in the past. Much of that success was
due to the dynamism and energy of immigration. We need only look to static
societies like Russia to witness the fate of countries with restricted
immigration policies and rigid ethnic lines. Whether we like it or not, our
children and our immigrants will remake America to their own liking, just as we
did, and that's just the way it should be.  John N. Thilges Dixon, Mo.  Not The
Greatest After watching the USO special on ABC honoring the men and women in the
Persian Gulf War, I have one question: Why was Mohammad Ali recognized as an
honored guest? He was a conscientious objector when he was called for duty in
1967.  What a slap in the face to the brave men and women who served so
valiantly to preserve our freedom in this and all other wars.  June Laschober
St. Louis A Sour Note I wish to thank music critic James Wierzbicki for the few
kind words he had for my music in his April 18 review of the Discovery program.
Unfortunately, his description of my piece, ''Music For Brass Four Poster,'' is
so skewed as to put even those few positive statements in question.  Wierzbicki
depicts the work as ''in essence - a percussion quartet.'' He even reverses the
program roster, listing the percussion before the trumpet, horn and bass
trombone. As the work involves almost 70 percent normal brass playing, this is
an inexplicable assessment; it would be comparable to claiming that ''Bolero,''
with its pervasive snare drum riff, is a drum concerto.  The opening of the work
is described as consisting of only metallic tapping '' for a long while'' before
the brass players ''finally'' get to play normally. Yet, this ''long while'' is
only 50 seconds out of the work's 12-minute duration!  Stranger still is the
ascription of ideas - not only to the piece but even to my own thought processes
- that are totally non-existent in the work, merely as a conceit to fill column
space. Stating that I wrote in a particular way because I perhaps knew what else
was on the program, Wierzbicki compares the ''reactionary'' stance of my music
to those other pieces. But the work, in its entirety, was sketched six months
before I was told the remainder of the programming - a fact Wierzbicki could
have ascertained in our brief interchange at the end of the concert.  Finally, I
would think it advisable for Wierzbicki to master the meaning of some of the
buzzwords he resorts to in his reviews. Dadaistic is a perfectly wonderful
descriptive; unfortunately, there is nothing dadaistic - be it of intent,
construction or philosophy - about ''Music For Brass Four Poster.'' Timothy
Vincent Clark St. Louis Help The Hungry Millions of people living in the Horn of
Africa - Ethiopia, Sudan and Somalia - face starvation primarily because
governments at war interfere with relief aid.  A bill before Congress, the Horn
of Africa Recovery Act of 1991, assures people the right to the necessities of
life and promotes peace and development through indigenous non-governmental
organizations. By providing food and funds to grass-root groups, all people
share in the relief efforts, whatever side they are on.  Bread for the World, a
Christian advocacy group concerned with hunger issues, urges citizens to write
their legislators to ask them to vote for passage of this bill.  Dorothy Harper
Oakland Power Of Clemency It is not surprising to see the opposition generated
by Missouri SB 277, which would establish a process of executive clemency for
inmates serving life without parole. The bill would set up an elaborate process
for review, and no inmate would be released until 20 years of the sentence had
been served.  The public has been well-conditioned for such reactions by the
myth that being tough on crime is the universal cure for all threats to society.
But violence begets violence; we see it all around us. There is the silent
violence of hunger, homelessness, unemployment, non-living wages, lack of health
care, poor education, etc. This form of violence generates frustration, anger,
bitterness and fear, which frequently leads to striking out at one another and
members of the larger community.  That individuals whose loved ones have been
victims of violent crime have a deep anger toward and a fear of the perpetrator
is not too difficult to comprehend. How one would react to such a horrible
experience is unpredictable, therefore sensitivity, understanding and patience
must prevail.  But for society to remain healthy, it is imperative that a spirit
of redemption, forgiveness and healing prevail over vengeance and destruction.
SB 277 is not an attempt to release dangerous killers - this accusation is a
ploy for diverting attention away from positive and humane endeavors - rather it
is a carefully crafted instrument for facilitating the power of clemency in a
responsible manner, a traditional power of the chief executive.  Why, for
example, should a woman who was abused by her husband and who finally strikes
back but poses no danger to anyone else, waste away behind walls at the expense
of society and the shattering of her family? Other cases, in which subsequent
revelation of evidence may mitigate the guilt or even exonerate a person, should
not remain buried for a lifetime.  I commend the sponsors of SB 277 for their
courage and their sensitivity.  They deserve our respect and support.  Rev. S.W.
Bauer Freeburg, Mo.  Responsive Radio A March 14 column by Darrell McWhorter
brought to light a pattern of disparaging remarks being broadcast by a local FM
radio station. As a result, a diverse adhoc group of 15 lesbian, gay and
AIDS-related organizations and agencies met with station management to discuss
the matter.  After an additional meeting, the station agreed to refrain from
airing these remarks (fag, faggot) and offered to help develop and run public
service announcements for the organizations. Furthermore, the station management
will be inviting representatives to inform their staff on issues concerning
AIDS, HIV infection and homophobia.  I would like to thank McWhorter for taking
a courageous stand on the issue of fairness to an oppressed minority. I would
also like to recognize the radio station KSD-FM for taking a positive response
to remedy the situation.  Charles Koehler Edwardsville Selecting A School The
April 21 editorial, ''Go Back To The Basics,'' neglected to include one of the
most basic of all items: the right of parents to educate their children. I
applaud the president's and the education secretary's efforts to give parents
the opportunity to send their children to the school of their choice, be it
magnet, neighborhood public, private or parochial.  The editorial's busing
smokescreen does not apply because competitive schools would provide quality
education in all neighborhoods, making busing unnecessary. And the separation of
church and state smokescreen does not apply because no religion would become an
established state religion in this nation.  I applaud the efforts of state Reps.
Ron Auer, Tom Stoff and Anthony Ribaudo for attempting to amend the Missouri
Constitution to allow tuition grants for all school-age children to attend the
public or private schools of their parents' choice.  Rev. Bruce H. Forman Pastor
SS Peter and Paul Parish St. Louis

LOAD-DATE: October 13, 1993

LANGUAGE: English

                  Copyright 1991 St. Louis Post-Dispatch, Inc.


                              156 of 268 DOCUMENTS

                       St. Louis Post-Dispatch (Missouri)

                 April 28, 1991, SUNDAY, LATE FIVE STAR Edition

MEXICANS DREAM OF EL NORTE MEXICAN VOICES/ AMERICAN DREAMS BY MARILYN P.; DAVIS
446 PAGES, HENRY HOLT, $29.95

BYLINE: Reviewed by Glynn Young

SECTION: EVERYDAY MAGAZINE; Pg. 5C

LENGTH: 413 words


FOR MANY YEARS the Mexicans have made their own state in the United States.  The
people go, some return, and then others go. Then when they return, others go.
That's how we go, back and forth.'' So reports Don Maclovio Medina, a farmer in
San Juan, Mexico, and once an illegal worker in California.  Medina is one of
scores of individuals who speak simply and often eloquently in Marilyn P. Davis'
''Mexican Voices/ American Dreams,'' an oral history of Mexican immigration,
legal and illegal, to the United States. Davis, a cultural anthropologist, has
perhaps done what all the statistics, theories and political rhetoric on both
sides of the border have failed to do - given immigrants their own opportunity
to explain why they come to the United States, why many leave and some remain.
Among those who describe their experiences, desires and needs are Albert Baez, a
physicist and father of singer Joan Baez; San Francisco architect Martin Del
Campo, and Cesar Rosas, lead guitarist and singer with the band Los Lobos. Many
Mexican-Americans have lived in the United States for decades and even longer,
their parents and grandparents having fled the destruction of the Mexican
Revolution or having sought a better life. These are the immigrants most
acclimated, most assimilated into American culture.  There are also those who
have not acclimated, who, while U.S. citizens, exist uneasily in two cultures
and two nations but really live in neither.  Then there are those who cross the
border by foot, hidden in automobiles, by airplane, any way they can arrange,
carrying no legal papers but filled with hope and fear. As Davis points out,
illegal immigration has come to serve for many, particularly young Mexican men,
as a rite of passage to manhood.  Treaties and U.S. laws crumble in the face of
a tradition that has assumed some proportions of myth. ''The simple fact is,''
she writes, ''that everyone who wants to cross, does. They may be caught, but if
they persist they will succeed.'' Migrant workers in Iowa, construction and
factory workers in California; maids in Texas, farm laborers, writers, artists,
housewives, children and those left behind all testify to the myth of ''El
Norte.'' Only some realize their dreams, but all are creating a remarkable
transformation of both the United States and Mexico. ''Mexican Voices/ American
Dreams'' is a vital work about a vital issue.  Glynn Young, a public affairs
writer, lives in suburban St. Louis.

LOAD-DATE: October 13, 1993

LANGUAGE: English

                  Copyright 1991 St. Louis Post-Dispatch, Inc.


                              157 of 268 DOCUMENTS

                       St. Louis Post-Dispatch (Missouri)

                     May 6, 1991, MONDAY, FIVE STAR Edition

IMMIGRANT ART GOES TO WASHINGTON PORTRAITS OF ST. LOUIS' GERMAN FOREBEARS MAKE;
A FINAL TOUR STOP

BYLINE: Margaret Wolf Freivogel Post-Dispatch Washington Bureau

SECTION: EVERYDAY MAGAZINE; Pg. 3D

LENGTH: 556 words


WASHINGTON (REST) ST. LOUIS' German immigrants have returned to their roots, in
a manner of speaking.  For the last few months, with help from the University of
Missouri at St.  Louis, their stern countenances have been haunting the halls of
the German Historical Institute in Washington.  The pictures are part of an
exhibit created by Steven Rowan, an UMSL historian, and Janice Broderick,
curator of the corporate art collection at A.G. Edwards.  The institute, an
academic foundation funded by the German government, is the latest stop for the
exhibit. It also has toured Missouri and Germany in the last eight years.  The
display views the impact of German immigration on the United States by looking
through the eyes of St. Louis.  For St. Louisans accustomed to thinking of their
German forebears as stolid burghers, the exhibit contains a few surprises.
Joseph Weydemeyer, one of those pictured, is known as the first Marxist in
America.  ''This is a story of good people and bad people, of progress and
conservatism, of self-indulgence and quiet accomplishments,'' one panel
explains.  The title is ''Mit Feder und Hammer'' - with pen and hammer - a
combination that symbolizes the intellectual and industrial contributions of
German immigrants.  Some came for political reasons, especially after 1848 when
radicals lost a revolution in Germany. Once in Missouri, these
''forty-eighters,'' as they were known, flocked to the Missouri Republican Party
and were crucial in keeping the state in the Union during the Civil War. It
could be a bloody enterprise, the exhibit shows. Arnold Krekel, who was born
near Dusseldorf, settled near St. Charles and formed ''Krekel's Dutch,'' an
armed unit that terrorized secessionists in the St. Louis suburbs.  In the
immediate post-Civil War period, German radicals were among those who pioneered
such reforms as education for blacks.  Some immigrated for financial reasons.
During the first half of the 19th century, the exhibit explains, Germany lacked
the industrial or agricultural base to sustain its population.  And some
apparently chose St. Louis because of false advertising. Gottfried Duden, a
Prussian lawyer and bureaucrat, arrived in 1824 in search of an ideal place for
a German settlement. In a book, he later described the easy life he supposedly
found in the St. Louis area.  Many who followed had their doubts. ''Life in
Missouri was harsh and the practice of black slavery offended many Germans,''
the exhibit reports.  After the Civil War, St. Louis flowered as a world class
center of German culture, with a richly diverse immigrant community of
Catholics, Protestants and Jews. Though Missouri never adopted German as an
official language, government proclamations were routinely translated into
German as a courtesy until the 1880s.  World events eventually brought the era
to an end. After 1900, German immigration waned. Then, the anti-German sentiment
of World Wars I and II further eroded German-oriented institutions.  But
interest in Germany picked up again in recent months with the fall of the Berlin
Wall and reunification of East and West. The exhibit came to Washington in an
expanded celebration of German-American Day last October.  After it leaves this
month, it will return temporarily to UMSL and then travel to Pittsburgh,
Broderick said.

LOAD-DATE: October 13, 1993

LANGUAGE: English

GRAPHIC: Photo; PHOTO By Wayne Crosslin/Post-Dispatch...''Naked Truth,'' a 1917
sculpture by Wilhelm Wandschneider in Reservoir Park, honors three
German-American editors: Carl Schurz, Carl Daenzer and Emil Preetorius.
PHOTOS...ABOVE LEFT: German immigrant Friedrich Theodor Engelmann encouraged
Henry Shaw to develop a botany research center in addition to his English
pleasure garden. LEFT: Adolphus Busch's house on the grounds of the brewery at 1
Busch Place.

                  Copyright 1991 St. Louis Post-Dispatch, Inc.


                              158 of 268 DOCUMENTS

                       St. Louis Post-Dispatch (Missouri)

                    May 21, 1991, TUESDAY, FIVE STAR Edition

SOVIET LAW WILL ALLOW FREE TRAVEL

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 1A

LENGTH: 857 words


MOSCOW - The Soviet legislature destroyed one of the pillars of the
authoritarian state Monday as it passed a liberalized emigration bill that would
give citizens the right to travel or live abroad. The move could lead to the
easing of U.S. trade restrictions.  The law would allow travel abroad for
virtually anyone who has permission from another nation to enter and who has no
outstanding alimony obligations, criminal charges or recent knowledge of state
secrets.  The bill was approved by the Supreme Soviet, the legislature, on a
vote of 320-37 with 32 abstentions. The bill also sets up appeal procedures for
people who are denied permission to leave.  But the new law may not go fully
into effect until the start of 1993, and emigration activists said it contained
loopholes that could still bar the departure of some people.  Whether to accept
large numbers of Soviet emigres would also be up to foreign governments. Western
European nations are already worried about the cost of resettling increasing
numbers of immigrants.  The measure enacts into law many of the emigration
reforms that President Mikhail S. Gorbachev has already ordered the bureaucracy
to carry out, reversing the harsh travel restrictions that were a hallmark of
authoritarian Communist rule.  In Washington, President George Bush's
administration expressed pleasure Monday that the legislation had been passed
but indicated that it was too soon to say whether this could lead to favorable
trade breaks.  Marlin Fitzwater, the White House spokesman, said the
administration would wait to see whether a final version of the law satisfied
U.S. conditions for extending most-favored-nation trading status to the Soviet
Union. Bush already has granted the Soviet Union a temporary waiver of the
Jackson-Vanik amendment, which curtails trade with the Soviets because of the
restrictive emigration policy. The waiver, which expires at the end of next
month, allowed the U.S. government to extend $1 billion in credit guarantees so
that the Soviets could buy U.S. grain.  The law's backers acclaimed its passage
as a major step in the Soviet Union's transformation from a totalitarian state
to an open society.  ''We always feared strangers,'' Fyodor Burlatsky, one of
the bill's architects, said. ''Therefore passage of this law is a historic act,
an act of Russian history, not only an act in the fight against
totalitarianism.'' Top Soviet officials with an eye on a European human rights
conference scheduled for Moscow later this year were jubilant. ''With the
adoption of this bill, our legislation has been brought i nto line with
international law,'' Deputy Foreign Minister Vladimir Petrovsky said.  The fear
of ''cosmopolitanism'' reached such a peak during Josef Stalin's bloody rule
from the 1920s through the 1940s that thousands of Soviets who had contact with
foreigners - or were presumed to have had - were branded spies, imprisoned,
exiled or executed.  In ensuing years, the government strictly limited foreign
travel, requiring special passports, visas and invitations from abroad.
Emigration was an impossible dream for all but a few, and thousands turned to
defection.  Introduced as part of Gorbachev's reforms in November 1989, the
emigration bill was delayed by the KGB secret police and the armed forces, which
feared that Soviets traveling abroad or emigrating would take state secrets with
them and would spy.  The anticipated boom in foreign travel will force the
cash-strapped Soviet government to print more passports and visa documents,
upgrade rail, highway and air transportation and hire more bureaucrats to
process travel applications.  The law was originally scheduled to take effect
July 1, 1992. In a compromise, lawmakers agreed Monday to give the government
six more months to prepare for implementation.  ''We cannot just remove the
collar from emigres, kick them out with our feet and say, 'Go wherever you
want,' '' said Viktor Kucherenko, chairman of the budget committee.  ''We must
create conditions not like those we have now - an intolerable half-year wait for
tickets and a wait of months to exchange money - but normal conditions, for
which a year of preparation is needed.'' Under the measure, Gorbachev's Cabinet
is to report within two weeks on whether some parts of the law can take effect
before January 1993.  Burlatsky said that he supports quicker implementation of
a provision allowing citizens to emigrate without invitations from relatives
abroad.  Human rights activists remained skeptical about the measure. ''Freedom
of migration appears to be there on paper, but what will be in reality, we'll
see,'' said Victoria Shakhet, co-chairwoman of the private Bureau on Exit and
Emigration in Moscow.  She said activists were unhappy with the law's ban on
emigration for men who have not fulfilled their military draft obligations. They
object also to an article that allows the government to extend indefinitely a
five-year ban on travel for citizens with access to classified information.
Under the measure, the government estimates that up to 2 million people will go
abroad to look for jobs.

LOAD-DATE: October 13, 1993

LANGUAGE: English

                  Copyright 1991 St. Louis Post-Dispatch, Inc.


                              159 of 268 DOCUMENTS

                       St. Louis Post-Dispatch (Missouri)

                    May 27, 1991, MONDAY, FIVE STAR Edition

ISRAELIS SEEK HOMES FOR ETHIOPIAN JEWS 14,500 ALSO NEED SCHOOLS, JOBS

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 5A

LENGTH: 458 words


JERUSALEM - Still rejoicing over its dramatic airlift of Ethiopian Jews, Israel
began Sunday to find homes, jobs and schools for the 14,500 newcomers, some of
whom have never switched on a light bulb.  At temporary living centers across
Israel, doctors gave check-ups and volunteers distributed clothing, taught the
immigrants to use kitchen utensils and toilets, and collected lists of names to
aid relatives seeking family members.  Most of the immigrants arrived with only
the clothes on their backs, and broadcasts repeatedly appealed for clothing
donations to be dropped at local post offices.  ''It's crazy; I have been going
non-stop,'' said Meir Edelstein, an immigration official running one of the
temporary living centers in a former Jerusalem hotel housing 170 immigrants.
The 36-hour rescue operation was planned with U.S. diplomatic assistance, which
was made possible after Israel pledged that the Ethiopian Jews would not be
directed to the occupied territories captured in the 1967 Middle East war.  Avi
Pazn er, top aide to Prime Minister Yitzhak Shamir, said ''Israel told the
United States it had no intention of settling the Ethiopians on occupied land.''
Arabs reacted with alarm to Israel's massive airlift, seeing it as a threat to
peace. Some called it proof of U.S. duplicity.  Many were convinced Israel would
move some of the immigrants into the occupied territories despite its pledge not
to.  East Jerusalem's al-Shaab newspaper wrote, ''The U.S. administration
certainly knows the influx, with U.S. help, strengthens the tendency of Israeli
leaders toward settlement and increases their appetite to bite off more occupied
territory.'' The rescue mission brought to 37,000 the number of Ethiopians
living in Israel but 24,000 of them, including the newcomers, live in 100
temporary housing centers. The newcomers arrived at a time when Israel is
struggling to accommodate tens of thousands of Soviet immigrants.  Since the
Ethiopians' arrival on Friday and Saturday, officials have prohibited the new
immigrants from leaving the centers, fearing they may spread disease or get
lost. Edelstein said that until name registers were completed and the immigrants
were immunized, they would stay indoors.  Doctors have said many of the
Ethiopians suffer from serious illnesses, including tuberculosis, malaria,
hepatitis, eye infections, isolated cases of meningitis and possibly AIDS.
Israeli forces virtually took over the airport in Ethiopia's capital to carry
out their airlift.  The disclosure was one of several new details that emerged
about the airlift.  An army spokesman also said Ethiopian authorities at the
last minute had demanded a $35 million ''fee'' for allowing the Jews to depart.
It was paid.

LOAD-DATE: October 13, 1993

LANGUAGE: English

                  Copyright 1991 St. Louis Post-Dispatch, Inc.


                              160 of 268 DOCUMENTS

                       St. Louis Post-Dispatch (Missouri)

                    June 3, 1991, MONDAY, FIVE STAR Edition

STUDY PAYS OFF ... TWO GIRLS PLACE 3RD, WIN $5,000 IN NATIONAL GEOGRAPHY;
CONTEST

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 220 words


Two eighth-grade students at the Traditional-Remington School in the Pattonville
School District have won third prize and $5,000 in the nationwide American
Express Geography Competition.  The students, Dawn Dziuba and Monique McClain,
examined the role of St.  Louis as a major destination for immigrants from more
than 28 countries. Their teacher, Grace Weber, was given a $1,500 award.  Dawn
is the daughter of Nicholas and Patricia Dziuba, and the parents of Monique are
James and Carol McClain.  ''It was kind of amazing,'' said Dawn about being
called to the principal's office to hear about the award. ''It took a while for
it to sink in, but it shocked me, and I called my mom and dad. Then they told
everybody. I was jumping up and down.'' ''I'm really excited,'' Monique said.
''I didn't think we had a chance.  There were a lot of people entering it. We
spent a lot of time on it, over two or three months. I still don't believe it.''
During their project, the girls interviewed classmates of Indian, Japanese,
Slavic, Chinese and South American descent. The project dealt with immigrant
students in various schools of the district. Weber said she was impressed with
the research the girls did.  More than 2,500 students were in the contest. The
school is at 102 Fee Fee Road, Maryland Heights.

LOAD-DATE: October 13, 1993

LANGUAGE: English

                  Copyright 1991 St. Louis Post-Dispatch, Inc.


                              161 of 268 DOCUMENTS

                       St. Louis Post-Dispatch (Missouri)

                 June 30, 1991, SUNDAY, LATE FIVE STAR Edition

AMERICAN DREAMS IMMIGRANTS CELEBERATE THEIR NEW HOME

SECTION: EVERYDAY MAGAZINE; Pg. 1C

LENGTH: 2565 words


IT DOES NOT seem to matter how complex and difficult life in these United States
becomes. Nor does it matter how many problems besiege us or how often we look
into our collective soul and find dark places and judge ourselves lacking. We
know - in spite of it all - that there is good life in this land of ours and
that it is enviable.  Other people in other lands still want to share it, to
participate in that good life. The faces of those who co me to our various
golden doors nowadays may be different from those that brightened the great
streams of immigration in the 19th and early 20th centuries. But the hopes and
dreams of those who come to America remain the same.  They come looking for
liberty. For the pursuit of happiness. They believe in the promise of a better
life.  As we looked forward to celebrating our 215th anniversary of national
independence this week, we asked some recent immigrants about their successes in
their new country, about how their expectations had been met, about how real the
dream could be. In finding out what America has given them, we found that they
had already given back to this country.  Here are four stories.  .  It isn't so
much their color (chocolate with specks of yellow) or their size (wide) as it is
the way his eyes glow when Grigory Epelbaum talks about the past 2 1/2 years of
living in America. The way they twinkle when he mentions his wife, Lauren
Becker, a clinical psychologist, whom he met at the tennis courts at Tower Grove
Park a little less than two years ago. The way they flutter with pride and
enthusiasm when he cuddles Max Ethan, the couple's newborn son.  This glow is
not only infectious, it's potent. Bottle it, prescribe two tablespoonfuls daily,
and the shrinks of America will be forced to find a new line of work.  ''Believe
me, it was not always this way,'' said Epelbaum, seated in the living room of
his Central West End condominium. ''When people say how lucky I am, I laugh
inside because they don't always have any idea how lucky I am. I have faced
death several times. To say being here is like a dream come true doesn't even
begin to describe it.  ''I swore in Russia that if I was, God forbid, forced to
stay there, I would never have a family or children in that country because I am
so opposed to its ideology. So to come here and not only find a good job and
nice life, but to meet Lauren and have her affect my life so wonderfully, is . .
.'' His hands move as he searches for the word. ''Overwhelming.'' Epelbaum, 37,
who is Jewish, was born in the Soviet Union and attended high school and college
in Kiev. He graduated from Kiev Polytechnic with a degree in engineering.  It
was during his adolescence that Epelbaum realized his philosophies were not in
keeping with Communist dogma. He felt isolated and alienated. He also felt angry
that he was denied religious freedom.  ''I knew a lot of people and managed to
get my hands on books through underground ways,'' he said. ''I read a lot about
Judaism and democracy and American history. But there was no way if you were
Jewish where I lived in Russia that you could really observe your heritage. For
Passover, we couldn't even get matzoh. A friend sneaked it in for us from the
Baltic Republic.'' By the time Epelbaum was 18, it became clear that his goal in
life was to leave the Soviet Union with his family. They tried in 1979 but were
denied.  And then any hope grew dimmer when the government invoked a policy of
not allowing Soviet Jews to emigrate.  Epelbaum kept trying to think up ways to
escape. He had some American friends who were graduate students in Kiev, and
they, too, tried to help him.  But when the KGB caught wind of Epelbaum's
desires, they fabricated a case against him and he was sentenced to five years
in jail. He served four years of hard labor at a prison in the Ukraine.  He
prefers not to go into too many details about his prison time except to say that
it was awful and that he feels lucky to have made it out alive.  After he got
out in 1985, he got a job as an engineer and reapplied to leave the country.
Finally, on Feb. 18, 1989, Epelbaum, his parents and his sister's family were
granted passage to the United States. They arrived in New York, where an uncle
sponsored them. A few months later, Epelbaum was hired as a design engineer with
Nooter/Eriksen Inc. in St. Louis.  That September, he found his way to Tower
Grove Park, where he asked a young woman if she would like to play a game of
tennis. They began dating, were married in June 1990 and had their first child
in May.  ''My life today has transcended all of my expectations,'' said
Epelbaum, who actively supports several charities aimed at helping Soviet Jews.
''When I found Lauren, it was an absolute surprise, the best gift.  ''And Max
being born in this country, he will know what freedom means. He will have no
restrictions placed on him, only choices. I can't wish him anything more than
that.'' He smiles. And the killer eyes shimmer.  - Ellen Futterman .  We made
the mistake of calling his hometown Ho Chi Minh City. ''Among my people, we
don't call it that name,'' said Dr. Phong Nguyen, as he smiled gently and said
''Saigon.'' Nguyen (pronounced Winn) was sitting behind a desk cluttered with
papers and phone messages at the St. Mary's Health Center's SSM Rehabilitation
Institute. He has a sixth-floor office with a wide view of the green tree tops
of Richmond Heights and beyond; he also practices at St. Joseph's Hospital in St
. Charles.  Nguyen, 40, is a physiatrist, specializing in the rehabilitation of
patients who have been involved in everything from serious car accidents to
debilitating strokes. His patients range in age from their teens to the late
80s. Much of what he does, beyond setting a course for treatment, involves
weekly meetings with worried family members. Nguyen has a reassuring way about
him.  ''He is extremely busy and dedicated,'' said Clare Northway, a medical
staff coordinator. ''I've never seen him in a bad mood.'' He came to this
country in 1979, four years after the fall of Saigon and the government of South
Vietnam. Like many Vietnamese refugees, he came the hard way. ''We escaped by
boat. It was difficult, risky.'' Phong Nguyen paused - ''It's a long story,'' he
said, suggesting that talking about it was not something he liked to do. He was
28 years old at the time, an orthopedic surgeon.  With a nephew, Hai Nguyen, who
was 16 at the time, they made it to the countryside and the seashore. In
Malaysia, their boat was turned away. ''So risky, boat cracking. We . . .'' and
he searched for a word, ''chop wire.'' They then made it to Indonesia. He and
his nephew were in a refugee camp for nine months before being sponsored to this
country by a family in Detroit.  Hai Nguyen, a computer science major, will soon
graduate from the University of Michigan.  Dr. Nguyen and the woman he married
in 1984, Dr. Phung Dang, who is on the staff of Christian Hospital Northeast,
became citizens in 1987. For Phong Nguyen, it was a time of mixed feelings.  ''I
wrote my parents and asked, 'Is it OK to become an American citizen?' We are a
small family - seven of us, I have two brothers and four sisters.'' He beamed.
They said yes. His mother has since died. He has not been back since he left
Vietnam 12 years ago.  ''I was happy, there is freedom here, a free country,
better living conditions. But our people, we love our country. In our heart, we
are still Vietnamese. In our blood, we are still Vietnamese. Among our people,
you rarely see big celebration for the change of nationality.  ''But over here
we have freedom, and I appreciate that,'' he said, adding that under the
Communists there is nothing but betrayal and a lack of freedom.  ''I think I can
do something to make contributions - to contribute here, to pay taxes.'' Nguyen
almost chuckled.  ''Our freedom . . . other Americans can see . . . I think they
can see it is difficult to buy.'' - John M. McGuire .  By the time we met
Ardalan Binaei, he knew what to do about cherry pits.  Binaei is Iranian. He
came to America three years ago when he was 21 and lived with sponsors Timothy
and Nancy Bush of St. Charles until he learned how to navigate in his new
culture.  ''I knew very little - not how to shop, not how to buy a car. I loved
the fruit you have here. I used to worry what were the good manners with which
to serve it.'' It's a significant question for someone throwing his first party
in cherry season. What do Americans at a cocktail party do with their cherry
pits?  Pocket them? Swallow them? Spend the evening like Demosthenes?  By the
time we met Binaei, in his sleek apartment in Chesterfield, he was confident
enough to serve fresh cherries with napkins and let the pits fall where they
may.  He still had the immigrant's intent, flattering way of listening to the
most pedestrian communications, as if he'd been waiting all his life for someone
to speak to the question of buttoned versus unbuttoned shirt collars in America.
He still had the immigrant's chore of correcting the pronunciation of his name,
which would continue until he gave up and Americanized it.  ''Ardalan?''
''Ardalan.'' And the story of his coming followed historical lines so closely
that it had the force of a parable, illuminating a drama re-enacted over 300
years: oppression in his native country, harrowing escape, arrival in the new
land with $100 to his name, purity of ambition, purity of gratitude.  Binaei's
faith is Bahai. The Moslem majority had a lock on all the government posts when
Binaei was in Iran.  ''And they wanted me to join the Army. Iran was at war with
Iraq then. No one who went to Iraq ever came back.'' He told his mother he was
leaving. ''She understand I am a rushing sort of guy, rushing to get some
place.'' At 7 o'clock one night, he headed for Pakistan on foot.  When
photographer Wendi Brown asked him the standard ''wasn't it scary'' question, he
shrugged depreciatingly. No one would have been more surprised than he if he'd
been apprehended and conscripted. He'd felt unstoppable - not like someone on an
adventure, more like someone fulfilling a destiny.  ''I wanted to prove
myself,'' he said. ''I wanted to come where I could prove myself.'' Now he is
working at Trends Manufacturing, a firm in Chesterfield that makes custom
kitchen cabinets and counter tops. He was hired as a temporary 2 1/2 years ago.
At the end of the first week, the firm's owner, Ted Liebig, offered him a
permanent job. He has been promoted to inspector of counter tops now.  ''I guess
you've noticed that he's very fastidious, wants everything perfect,'' said
Liebig. ''Well, that's the way he feels about the seams on a counter top. He was
in here last Sunday, looking after details. He talks sometimes about being a
doctor. Whatever he decides on, I think he'll do it.'' Binaei goes to night
school, preparing to take the exam for a general equivalency diploma. He
displays at all times a wonderful mixture of ambition and altruism.  ''I want to
be more important to Mr. Liebig,'' he said. ''I want to do more. I want to be
able to help him more.'' And: ''I like computers, but I think I'm going to be an
MD. So I can serve.'' For America, he has an unconditional love. He has
sponsored his younger brother's and his cousin's move here, giving them a
bedroom in his apartment and, thanks to Liebig, finding them jobs. He has a
brand-new, fire-engine-red Honda Civic. Last year he went to the Grand Canyon on
vacation.  ''You are doing wonderfully,'' we said.  ''America is wonderful,'' he
said. ''In five more days I will be here three years.'' The anniversary was
charged with momentousness. Three years in the land of opportunity. ''I wanted
to prove myself.'' The old desire. It has traveled three centuries uneroded. And
this is the country where it takes root. Still.  ''Good luck,'' we said. ''Thank
you, Ardalan.'' ''David,'' he corrected. ''Everybody calls me David. Do you want
to take some cherries with you.?'' - Florence Shinkle .  When he walked into Bar
Italia that day, he had intended only to order a cup of cappuccino while he
pondered whether his dream of attending medical school would ever be realized.
The fact that he now owns the popular Central West End restaurant and employees
22 people came about so fortuitously that it still surprises Mengesha Yohannes.
The eldest of six, Yohannes grew up in central Ethiopia, where his father was a
civil servant and his mother was a housewife. In 1980, he came to the United
States to attend St. Louis University on scholarship.  ''It was a bit hard to
adjust,'' he recalled. ''I came from a fairly well-off family and had been used
to household chores and such being taken care of by maids. Here, I had to do a
lot more for myself. But I made friends pretty easily and found myself quite
busy with school.'' In his senior year at SLU, Yohannes was accepted to
Washington University's School of Medicine. The only way he could attend was if
he was given full financial aid. But because of his refugee student status, he
wasn't eligible for many scholarships and grants. At the same time, the
situation at home in Ethiopia had gotten much worse and his family needed his
help.  ''Famine had become a problem, and the whole structure of the country was
falling apart,'' said Yohannes, 29. ''There also was the fear of a forced draft
into the Army, which later came to pass.  ''I was called upon by my parents to
do what I could to get my brothers out of the country. One of my brothers had
been jailed for alleged anti-government activities.'' Yohannes put his plans to
attend medical school on hold as he worked to get his brothers out of Ethiopia.
He was amazed at how helpful his new friends in St. Louis were when it came to
assisting him and finding sponsors for his siblings. Eventually, all four
brothers and a sister immigrated to St.  Louis.  One day, feeling disheartened
because he was unable to get a deferment to Washington U.'s medical school,
Yohannes found his way to Bar Italia. The next thing he knew, the owners offered
him a job. By 1987, they offered him a small piece of the business.  ''I had
always said 'next year I will go to medical school,' so I wasn't interested in a
business,'' he said. ''Then I took stock and realized I had been here (Bar
Italia for five years and didn't want to throw away the experience. Besides, I
liked it.'' Last July, he became the sole owner. Six weeks later, a cigarette
fire gutted the building, causing $130,000 in damages. It took seven months to
remodel the place.  Since the reopening on March 24, all has been going well
business-wise, save the fact that restaurant work requires him to put in
ridiculous hours.  But he genuinely likes it and has become friendly with
several of his customers. A couple of his brothers even work for him now.  ''I
suppose the thing about coming to America that really rings true is that
anything is possible,'' said Yohannes, who makes it a point to hire people who
could use a break or may be down on their luck.  ''When the restaurant burned
down, I felt dismayed and worried, but I took stock and knew if I worked hard,
things would turn around. That's the thing about America. I still don't know if
I'll ever get to med school, but I do know that there really are so many options
and opportunities here.'' - Ellen Futterman

LOAD-DATE: October 13, 1993

LANGUAGE: English

GRAPHIC: Photo; PHOTO (COLOR)...Wes Paz/Post-Dispatch Photo...LEFT: Grigory
Epelbaum, a former Soviet political prisoner, with his wife, Lauren Becker, and
their 6-week-old-son, Max Ethan, at their home in the Central West End. PHOTO
(COLOR)...Karen Elshout/Post-Dispatch Photo...BELOW: Mengesha Yohannes (second
from right), owner of Bar Italia in the Central West End, and three of his
brothers, whom he helped emigrate from Ethiopia. From left: Mewael, Yitbarek and
Robel. PHOTO (COLOR)...Wendi Brown/Post-Dispatch Photo...Ardalan Binaei came to
the United States from Iran three years ago and now works for a Chesterfield
company that makes custom kitchen cabinets and counter tops. PHOTO
(COLOR)...Karen Elshout/Post-Dispatch Photo...Dr. Phong Nguyen talking with a
stroke patient, Sandy Parker, St.  Mary's Health Center. Nguyen left Vietnam in
1979, four years after the fall of Saigon.

                  Copyright 1991 St. Louis Post-Dispatch, Inc.


                              162 of 268 DOCUMENTS

                       St. Louis Post-Dispatch (Missouri)

                   July 20, 1991, SATURDAY, FIVE STAR Edition

VP FAIR VISITOR GRANTED ASYLUM

BYLINE: Philip Dine Of the Post-Dispatch Staff 1991, St. Louis Post-Dispatch

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 1A

LENGTH: 800 words


The young Romanian who defected while here for the VP Fair a year ago has
finally been granted political asylum by the U.S. government.  ''I still can't
believe it,'' Dorian Alexandrescu said Friday. ''I think I'm going to have to
get used to it.'' Alexandrescu got the news Thursday night, after immigration
officials from Chicago visited his attorney, Lilian Fernandez, and gave her
documents granting the asylum.  After months of waiting - amid indications he'd
be denied - Alexandrescu benefited from a new process for handling asylum cases
at the U.S.  Immigration and Naturalization Service, Fernandez said.  Since
defecting over the July Fourth weekend last year, Alexandrescu had worried about
being sent back to Romania, where he'd been beaten by miners and arrested. His
problems began after he wrote in a student newspaper that the overthrow of
dictator Nicolae Ceaucescu was not a true revolution but rather a long-planned
palace coup by other Communists. Repression continued in Romania, he wrote.  Now
Alexandrescu, 23, can focus on the job he began two months ago, that most
American of jobs - selling cars, at Glendale Chrysler Plymouth Inc.
Alexandrescu, who has a longtime love affair with automobiles, enjoys tooling
around town in his Chrysler demo convertible.  ''He's a very nice man, very
aggressive,'' said office manager Rosie Sprinkle. ''He wants to move forward,
and do the best he can.'' Alexandrescu's case drew wide attention last summer
after VP Fair organizers said they wanted nothing to do with his problems. He
had been one of 14 young foreigners invited to the VP Fair for a ''celebration
of freedom,'' shortly after the fall of communism in much of Eastern Europe.
Ron Henges, general chairman of the VP Fair, said then: ''Our deal was we
brought you to St. Louis, and we sent you back to your country. . . . If you
don't make that plane, that's your business and your problem.'' In Romania,
Alexandrescu studied physics and wrote for a student paper begun shortly after
Ceaucescu was shot on Dec. 25, 1989. In March 1990, he was arrested in a
hospital near the Hungarian border while filming victims of ethnic violence. In
May 1990, a car without license plates tried to run him over as he walked to the
paper, he said. In June 1990, he drew the wrath of police when he filmed people
attacking students. Later that month, Alexandrescu and 20 student colleagues
were asleep in a student laboratory where they were hiding their video equipment
when miners streaming into Bucharest broke down the door with hammers and beat
the students.  His leg broken, Alexandrescu was beaten again at the police
station. He hid for two weeks before taking advantage of the VP Fair invitation
to flee to St.  Louis.  After he defected, an outpouring of public support led
the Immigration and Naturalization Service to move a hearing up to Sept. 7 of
last year.  But on March 31 of this year, the INS regional office in Kansas City
wrote Fernandez that it ''intends to deny (Alexandrescu's request for asylum in
the United States.'' The agency said he hadn't proved he'd be persecuted if he
returned home.  Last month, Fernandez asked David Funderburk, former U.S.
ambassador to Romania, to help Alexandrescu. He wrote a letter citing ''terror,
intimidation and murders by the secret police and the government'' in today's
Romania.  Funderburk added that if Alexandrescu returned to Romania, he would be
''considered an enemy of the state and dealt with accordingly.'' The other key
was a change in the INS, Fernandez said. In April, seven regional asylum offices
with a total of 82 asylum officers were set up around the country. ''They are
highly specialized, just doing political asylum and refugee law,'' said
Fernandez, an immigration lawyer in St. Lous.  For years, she said, immigration
lawyers had complained that the INS based refugee cases on U.S. foreign policy;
the new asylum offices are making impartial decisions, she said.  Robert W.
Esbro ok, director of the Chicago Asylum Office, met with Fernandez Thursday
before granting the asylum. He wrote that Alexandrescu had ''established a
well-founded fear of persecution upon return to your homeland.'' Esbrook said
that in a year, Alexandrescu could apply for permanent residence.  Alexandrescu,
who is living with a family in Kirkwood, said he hoped to finish his degree in
physics and then to work as a journalist.  ''There are so many people that
helped me,'' he said. ''That's a feeling that just overwhelms me.'' Among them,
he said, is VP Fair official Allyn Glaub, who headed last year's East European
involvement.  This year's VP Fair is set for Labor Day weekend. Asked if he
planned to be involved, Alexandrescu said, ''Not that I know of, but if they
would ask me, I would be glad to help.''

LOAD-DATE: October 14, 1993

LANGUAGE: English

GRAPHIC: Photo; PHOTO HEADSHOT (COLOR) ... Dorian Alexandrescu ... ''I still
can't believe it''

                  Copyright 1991 St. Louis Post-Dispatch, Inc.


                              163 of 268 DOCUMENTS

                       St. Louis Post-Dispatch (Missouri)

                August 11, 1991, SUNDAY, LATE FIVE STAR Edition

DIFFICULTIES CONFRONT IMMIGRANTS

BYLINE: Brian Wallstin Of the Post-Dispatch Staff

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 4C

LENGTH: 656 words


The middle-aged Vietnamese woman entered the small jewelry shop on South
GrandBoulevard, a gas company employee trailing behind her.  Waving an invoice,
the woman rattled off her story in rapid Vietnamese to Tony Tran, the shop
owner. The gas company employee told Tran that she would have to shut off
service to the woman's home.  Moving fluidly between English and Vietnamese,
Tran was able to settle the dispute, which began with a misunderstanding over
identical last names.  ''That is a very good example of the difficulties,'' Tran
said as he sat back down. ''I try to help as many Vietnamese as I can. I love to
help my people because I understand.'' The comforting presence of thousands of
predecessors often makes difficult situations less agonizing for St. Louis'
Asian refugee population, most of whom lack the family ties here that many
immigrants enjoy.  But newcomers - refugees and immigrants alike - must still
deal with fading government and social agency support and the erosion of their
traditional family values.  ''The positive side is that there is an Asian
community able to help out with welcoming,'' said Anna Crosslin, executive
director of the International Institute of Metropolitan St. Louis. ''The down
side is that 10 to 15 years ago there was more broad-based community support for
resettlement.'' Then it was the churches and private agencies that offered the
important early support to newcomers. They have now turned their attention to
the homeless, single-parent families and other domestic problems, Crosslin said.
Phuong Nguyen, head of the Vietnamese Resettlement Association, said that
government support for refugees is half of what it was between 1975 and 1980,
when resettlement of the Vietnamese ''boat people'' was a high priority.  In
addition, many agencies - some of which receive federal funding for immigrant
and refugee education - have begun to emphasize employment over schooling, said
Nguyen.  ''Even though the government says they can get grants for school, these
organizations have a different philosophy,'' Nguyen said. ''They see a refugee
and they say 'work.' '' Crosslin and Nguyen say that because of the state of the
American economy, refugees are being hustled into jobs without basic
transitional services like English classes.  And, they say, the transition to a
new way of life is more difficult for older newcomers, especially when their
children begin speaking English.  ''The largest difficulty is the culture shock
in terms of the language and the effect it has on the rate of change within the
family,'' Nguyen said.  Tony Tran, a former South Vietnamese soldier, escaped
the collapse of Saigon in 1975 by fleeing with his pregnant wife and 5-year-old
son.  Tran, his wife, Kim, and their children, Tu, now 20, Diem, 17, and Lien,
15, work long hour s at the two family businesses - Kim Chi Jewelry and the
Mekong restaurant, both on South Grand Boulevard.  All three children are quite
''Americanized,'' Tran says, and there is scarcely a trace of an accent in their
English. Their father, however, insists that they speak Vietnamese at home.
''We have to keep speaking Vietnamese in order to raise our children in the
traditional Oriental way,'' he said. ''I have such an accent when I speak
English, and they don't take me seriously.'' Nguyen says there are three ways to
maintain the close-knit family values that are traditional in Asian cultures:
Parents should learn English and children should learn the native tongue, if
they don't already speak it.  Social meetings, to show children how their
parents did things and to foster an appreciation for their native ways.  General
family education, to educate both parents and children in the ways of their new
country.  ''I feel isolated myself,'' said Nguyen, whose English is excellent.
''Imagine how it would feel to sit with someone and be able to talk, but not to
joke or share the past.''

LOAD-DATE: October 14, 1993

LANGUAGE: English

GRAPHIC: Photo Graphic; CHART/TABLE by Post-Dispatch ... Asian/Pacific Islander
Population ...  chart list Chinese, Filipino, Indian, Japanese, Korean and
Vietnamese population in St. Louis from 1980-1990. (source: U.S. Census) Photo
by Wayne Crosslin/Post-Dispatch ... Emilio Bombais, center, owns the Cafe de
Manila, a gathering place for newly arrived Filipinos. With him is Nel Dela
Cruz, left, and Atoi Placente.

                  Copyright 1991 St. Louis Post-Dispatch, Inc.


                              164 of 268 DOCUMENTS

                       St. Louis Post-Dispatch (Missouri)

                 August 21, 1991, WEDNESDAY, FIVE STAR Edition

IMMIGRANTS FOLLOW NEWS ANXIOUSLY OUSTER OF GORBACHEV VIEWED AS 'THE END OF;
DEMOCRACY'

BYLINE: Christine Bertelson Of the Post-Dispatch Staff

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 11A

LENGTH: 584 words


Immigrants here from the Soviet Union and Eastern European said Soviet President
Mikhail S. Gorbachev's ouster from power would end many dreams: the dream of
democracy within the Soviet Union, the dream of full independence for the Baltic
republics, the dream of families reuniting in the United States and the dream of
a united Europe free of communism.  Gathered in a crowded classroom at the
International Institute on Park Avenue, many expressed fear, anger and sorrow
that the Soviet president had been deposed and put under house arrest. The
International Institute, funded in part by the United Way, offers language
classes and help in resettling immigrant families from throughout the world.
Angjelin Vushaj, 27, -an Albanian immigrant, said he was saddened by the news of
Gorbachev's ouster.  ''Gorbachev is a kind man, and he was trying to get a
common Europe and end communism in Europe,'' Vushaj said through a translator.
''We are very upset about this in Albania.'' Rufin Kozlowski, 34, who left
Poland two years ago, said he was afraid that Poland would return to communist
rule. Many Soviet troops are still stationed in Poland, he said.  ''That is why
I choose America,'' Kozlowski said.  In contrast, the last of the Soviet troops
left Hungary at the end of June, and Hungarians do not believe that they will
return soon, said Mary Csengody, speaking by telephone from Budapest. Csengody
and her husband fled from Hungary in 1949 and came to St. Louis. They have been
visiting relatives in Budapest for the last month.  ''We do not need to be
fearful,'' Csengody said. ''We are hopeful that nothing will happen to us. We
try to be very positive.'' Csengody said Hungarians had been riveted to their
television sets as events unfold in the Soviet Union. But Soviet politics have
been upstaged by another historical event - the first visit to Hungary by Pope
John Paul II, she said. Csengody joined hundreds of thousands of people who
flocked to Hero's Square in Budapest on Tuesday to hear the pope celebrate Mass.
The pope praised Gorbachev as a man ''who was working to better the world'' and
prayed for a peaceful and positive resolution to crisis, Csengody said.  Rafael
Gazanchyan, 49, a Soviet native, said he was fearful that the communist
hard-liners would impose a rigid form of government like that of Leonid
Brezhnev. Gazanchyan said that Gorbachev's power had seriously eroded during the
last two years, and that the real power in the country rested with the KGB
secret police. Most of Gorbachev's promises of economic reform and greater
openness had not been carried through, he said. But now, things are bound to get
worse, he said.  The new government is likely to reclaim its rebellious
republics, said Al'bert Ovchiyev, 45, who came here recently with his family
from Azerbaijan, in the Soviet Union.  ''They will resist but it will not
help,'' Ovchiyev said through a translator. ''People in the U.S.S.R. have no
weapons and cannot resist the military.'' ''This is the end of democracy, and
the promises of democracy,'' said Aleksy Vasin, a recent emigre from Moscow.
Vasin was active in a Soviet human rights organization known as Free Migration.
After the coup, the group's purpose an d its leader, Nikolay Semashko, are in
peril, Vasin said.  ''The situation is most terrible for the leaders of human
rights groups,'' Vasin said. ''The communists will use their methods . . . to
take leaders of these groups to jail. I am afraid for my friend Nikolay.''

LOAD-DATE: October 14, 1993

LANGUAGE: English

GRAPHIC: Photo; Photo by Wayne Crosslin/Post-Dispatch Al'Bert Ovchiyev, who
moved here recently from Azerbaijan. He predicts that the new Soviet government
will reclaim its rebellious republics. ''People in the U.S.S.R. have no weapons
and cannot resist the military,'' he says.

                  Copyright 1991 St. Louis Post-Dispatch, Inc.


                              165 of 268 DOCUMENTS

                       St. Louis Post-Dispatch (Missouri)

                   August 26, 1991, MONDAY, FIVE STAR Edition

JEWISH IMMIGRANTS DOUBT CHANGES IN SOVIET UNION

BYLINE: Virgil Tipton Of the Post-Dispatch Staff

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 9A

LENGTH: 365 words


While most Americans were hailing the demise of communism and what looked
likethe rise of democracy in the Soviet Union, Soviet Jews in St. Louis had
another reaction: deep skepticism.  ''It's a stupid show - nothing more,'' said
Yuriy Shrifteylik, a refugee from the Ukraine. While change in the Soviet Union
is possible eventually, ''I'm not for sure Russia can change in a couple of
years,'' he said.  Shrifteylik joined about 50 or 75 other Jews from the Soviet
Union on Sunday night at the Jewish Community Centers Association in west St.
Louis County, in a gathering that had been planned for some time.  Although the
gathering took place one day after Soviet President Mikhail S.  Gorbachev
resigned as the Communist Party leader, the group was hardly ready to celebrate
the news.  ''Most people don't believe,'' said Svetlana Sinayuk of Olivette, who
left the Crimea two years ago.  ''We hope that will be OK,'' said Bolina
Botachnikova, who moved to University City from the Ukraine about six months
ago. ''The system is very bad.'' Milana Furman of West County, who has been here
for five months, said the situation was painful to watch, regardless of the
results.  ''In the American Revolution, was it painful?'' she asked.  Sinayuk
said she spoke to her parents in the Crimea two days ago. While Gorbachev was
being held captive there by coup plotters, her parents feared for their safety,
she said. Sinayuk said the situation was especially painful for her father, an
army officer and a lifelong communist. Fanya Liftis of Olivette, who left the
Soviet Union 13 years ago, said time and distance had made it difficult for her
to determine whether the apparent moves toward democracy were sincere. She, too,
is skeptical that Gorbachev and Boris N. Yeltsin, president of the Russian
republic, would deliver on what they promise.  ''I don't trust them,'' Liftis
said. ''No one - not Yeltsin, not Gorbachev.'' Vladimir Rubzhin of Creve Coeur,
who left the Soviet Union about two years ago, had an even more blunt assessment
of Yeltsin.  ''He's a talker,'' Rubzhin said. ''Many times the politicians
promise many things, and people don't believe politicians any more.''

LOAD-DATE: October 14, 1993

LANGUAGE: English

                  Copyright 1991 St. Louis Post-Dispatch, Inc.


                              166 of 268 DOCUMENTS

                       St. Louis Post-Dispatch (Missouri)

                 September 13, 1991, FRIDAY, FIVE STAR Edition

ISRAELI AID IMPERILED BUSH THREATENS VETO ON LOAN PACKAGE

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 1A

LENGTH: 1179 words


WASHINGTON - Contending that Middle East peace negotiations might be in
jeopardy, President George Bush threatened Thursday to use his veto to delay
action on a $10 billion loan-guarantee package for Israel.  Israel wants the
loans to help house a flood of Soviet immigrants. About 350,000 immigrants,
almost all of them from the Soviet Union, have arrived in Israel in the last two
years, and Israel expects a million by 1995.  But Bush wants the housing package
delayed for 120 days, explaining on Thursday, ''We're on the brink of a historic
breakthrough'' in trying to arrange a peace conference between Arabs and Jews.
Arab nations fear the loans could be used to settle Jewish immigrants in
disputed territory. And Bush said he wanted to avoid a ''contentious debate (in
Congress that would raise a host of sensitive issues'' that ''could well destroy
our ability to bring one or more of the parties to the peace table.'' He
declined to identify which nations might back off.  ''We don't want a
contentious debate on settlements or anything else at this juncture,'' he said.
''We want to get these parties to the table. I don't think it's asking too much
to have a 120-day delay.'' Bush called the news conference as 1,200 officials of
Jewish groups from 40 states fanned out across Capitol Hill to urge Congress to
help Israel now.  Bush described himself as ''one lonely little guy'' wearing
out the telephone in appealing for a four-month delay. He said he did not cha
llenge the lobbyists' petitioning of Congress. ''I think everybody ought to
fight for what they believe in,'' he said. He added: ''I am going to fight for
what I believe. . . . ''I'm up against some powerful political forces, but I owe
it to the American people to tell them how strongly I feel about deferral.'' He
accused those trying to speed up the loan package of catering to domestic
politics. ''Too much is at stake for domestic politics to take precedence over
peace,'' he said. ''This is something I know the bulk of the American people
understand.'' He acknowledged that seeking a delay probably was not a popular
move. ''But that's not the question, whether or not it's good 1992 politics.
What's important here is that we give this (peace process a chance, and I don't
care if I get one vote.'' The guarantees would permit Israel to borrow the $10
billion from commercial banks over five years at favorable rates. The loans
would be used to build homes, roads, hospitals and schools for the refugees; the
loans would be paid back over 30 years.  Bush declined to say whether he would
endorse the U.S. guarantees after a 120-day delay. A reporter asked Bush if he
would be willing to commit himself to backing the measure come January.
''Absolutely not,'' Bush replied.  In reaction, Shoshana Cardin, chairwoman of
the Conference of Presidents of Major American Jewish Organizations, said Bush's
administration had first asked for a delay until Labor Day and now, in proposing
further delay, was provoking an unnecessary clash. ''Raising it to the current
level may create problems for the peace process,'' she said.  In Jerusalem,
Israeli Foreign Minister David Levy said, ''Israel is not seeking a
confrontation with the United States, its ally, just as our request for
guarantees is not a provocation against anyone, nor a hindrance to the
advancement of the peace process.'' He noted that Israel had already delayed the
request from March to September at the request of the United States, ''out of
the same desire to cooperate.'' Last year, Bush's administration approved $400
million in housing loan guarantees for Israel. But first, Levy pledged in
writing that, as a matter of policy, his government would not use the loans for
housing on the West Bank or in the Gaza Strip.  Israeli Prime Minister Yitzhak
Shamir, reacting to the threat of a veto, said late Thursday that approval of
the loan guarantees would not harm chances for peace. ''We do not believe that
reacting positively to Israel's request would jeopardize the peace process,''
the Israeli leader's staff said in a statement issued in Paris, where Shamir is
visiting.  ''This is a humanitarian need which we believe has no connection to
any political subject whatsoever including the peace process in the Middle
East.'' But Shamir said his government would seek assistance from European
Community governments to help resettle Soviet Jews now that Bush's
administration wants to delay loan guarantees worth $10 billion.  Shamir
acknowledged that his government was exploring prospects of better relations
with European governments as tension has risen with the United States.  Shamir
said he had discussed the need for European assistance with French President
Francois Mitterrand. He said Mitterrand told him to formulate an aid proposal
directed to all 12 EC members.  Bush and the Arabs are insisting that Israel
stop allowing Jews to live in the territories held by Jordan and Egypt until
1967. About 2 percent of the recent Soviet immigrants have settled there;
another 2 percent have settled in east Jerusalem.  Israeli Prime Minister
Yitzhak Shamir is intent on holding the territories seized in the Six Day War of
1967, even though he has agreed to attend a peace conference. Bush says the
conference should be based on Israel's giving up territory in exchange for Arab
acceptance of Israel's right to live in peace.  Bush said at his news conference
Thursday that Israel had got more than $4 billion in various aid programs from
the United States in the fiscal year that ends Sept. 30 - nearly $1,000 for each
Israeli citizen, he said.  Therefore, he said, the disagreement is not about
support for Israel but ''about peace. For the first time in history the vision
of Israelis sitting down with their Arab neighbors to talk peace is a real
prospect. Nothing should be done that might interfere with this prospect.'' Bush
and Soviet President Mikhail S. Gorbachev agreed in July to co-sponsor a Middle
East peace conference and said they intended to issue invitations for next
month. Secretary of State James A. Baker III is scheduled to go to Israel,
Egypt, Jordan and Syria next week to try to make final arrangements.  Baker, now
in Moscow, planned to meet today with Soviet Foreign Minister Boris Pankin to
discuss the Middle East peace conference. A senior U.S.  official said the two
would discuss the specific invitations. It was unclear whether they had agreed
on a place and time.  Earlier this week, Pankin reaffirmed Soviet opposition to
holding t he conference in the United States. He suggested Prague,
Czechoslovakia.  On other matters, Bush: Said Supreme Court nominee Clarence
Thomas was handling himself ''very, very well'' in his confirmation hearings.
Defended Robert Gates' nomination to head the CIA, saying he had given
''absolutely no consideration for withdrawal because there's no reason for
withdrawal.'' He noted ''feathery charges'' against Gates stemming from the
Iran-Contra affair, but said they were nonsense. Gates' confirmation proceedings
will begin Monday.

LOAD-DATE: October 14, 1993

LANGUAGE: English

GRAPHIC: Photo; PHOTO (COLOR) HEADSHOT of George Bush...''Sensitive issue.''

                  Copyright 1991 St. Louis Post-Dispatch, Inc.


                              167 of 268 DOCUMENTS

                       St. Louis Post-Dispatch (Missouri)

                September 24, 1991, TUESDAY, ST. CHARLES Edition

OLD FRIENDS COUNTY RESIDENTS TO RENEW ACQUAINTANCES TODAY IN VISIT BY 39;
GERMANS FROM MELLE

BYLINE: Ann Oberle-DeGroodt St. Charles Post Special Correspondent

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 558 words


Residents in the small community of New Melle in western St. Charles County will
be renewing old friendships this week when they once again host visitors from
Melle, Germany.  Thirty-nine guests from the city will arrive this afternoon for
a four-day whirlwind tour of St. Charles County and tourist attractions in St.
Louis. The Germans will be staying with host families in and around New Melle
whom they'll meet at the New Melle Community Club later this evening.  This is
the second time a group from Melle will have visited the local area, said event
organizer Alberta Toedebusch, 66, of New Melle. The ''Old Melle to New Melle
Partnership Tour,'' as it has been dubbed, began nearly 10 years ago.
Toedebusch and her husband, Frank, along with about 23 other New Melle area
residents, traveled to Europe in 1981 on a Missouri Origins Tour. Their
destination was the area in the lowlands of Germany, specifically Melle, where
ma ny of their ancestors came from.  The immigrants who arrived in St. Charles
County, homesick for their fatherland, are believed to have named New Melle in
honor of their old city.  Melle is located in the north-central section of
Germany, just south of the seaport of Bremen, where many immigrants departed in
the late 1800s.  An unofficial friendship grew between the touring group and the
residents of Melle, especially the mayor, Clemens Schwertman.  ''I never once
dreamed it would come to this,'' said Toedebusch, who because she reads and
writes low German, has taken on the task of correspondences between the two
cities. Toedebusch explained that a ''partnership in friendship'' between the
two cities was quickly formed and plans were made for the Germans to visit.
That first visit was made in 1988 and several members of that original tour are
returning this week.  Toedebusch pointed out that the link between the two
cities is less formal than the sister city organization that many other American
communities have formed with their European counterparts and New Melle doesn't
pay dues to the sister city organization.  Once the friendship developed,
another group - this time 41 people from St.  Charles County - traveled to Melle
for a 10-day tour in 1989. Four days were spent in Melle; Toedebusch said the
Americans were ''treated royally.'' The schedule for this visit is almost a
duplicate of the 1988 tour. The Germans were so pleased with it that they asked
to have it repeated, said Toedebusch.  Included will be visits to Hermann,
Washington and Augusta, as well as stops at area churches and cemeteries. A
picnic is planned for Thursday at the Cappeln United Church of Christ in New
Melle.  St. Louis attractions will include the Busch Brewery, the Arch, Union
Station and the New Cathedral.  Much-anticipated by the Germans will be a river
cruise aboard the Belle of St. Louis on Friday. This was the highlight of the
last tour and a specific request by Mayor Schwertman.  ''When he went to school
as a boy he learned about the Mississippi River and it was a childhood dream to
ride on the river,'' said Toedebusch. ''Our group was just as determined to ride
the Rhine River,'' she added.  This tour will differ in that more time will be
allotted for the Germans to spend with host families. Some of the families and
their guests have been able to trace common ancestors.

LOAD-DATE: October 14, 1993

LANGUAGE: English

                  Copyright 1991 St. Louis Post-Dispatch, Inc.


                              168 of 268 DOCUMENTS

                       St. Louis Post-Dispatch (Missouri)

                October 20, 1991, SUNDAY, LATE FIVE STAR Edition

U.N. GROUP PLANS AWARD FOR INTERNATIONAL INSTITUTE

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 4D

LENGTH: 174 words


The International Institute of St. Louis will be honored Friday for its longtime
work with refugees at this year's United Nations Day celebration at the Missouri
Botanical Garden.  The program, which starts at 8 p.m. in Schoenberg Auditorium,
will feature music, dancing and a mini-fashion show by Polish, Laotian, Russian,
Eritrean, Ukrainian and Bulgarian performers, many of whom immigrated to this
area. A wine and cheese reception will follow the program.  Mayor Vincent C.
Schoemehl Jr. and County Executive George R. ''Buzz'' Westfall have proclaimed
Thursday as the Day of the Refugee.  Thursday is when United Nations Day is
celebrated nationally. The proclamation is to honor the contributions immigrant
refugees have made to the community.  The celebration here also marks the 40th
anniversary of the office of the United Nations High Commissioner for Refugees.
The event is open to the public.  Reservations for tickets, priced at $15, may
be arranged by calling the St.  Louis United Nations Association at 721-1961.

LOAD-DATE: October 13, 1993

LANGUAGE: English

                  Copyright 1991 St. Louis Post-Dispatch, Inc.


                              169 of 268 DOCUMENTS

                       St. Louis Post-Dispatch (Missouri)

                  November 5, 1991, TUESDAY, FIVE STAR Edition

NEW JEWISH SETTLEMENT IS STARTED CEREMONY JUST HOURS AFTER TALKS CONCLUDE

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 10A

LENGTH: 559 words


KELA, Golan Heights - Soviet immigrants and hard-line Israelis inaugurated a new
Jewish settlement Monday in the Golan Heights, promising never to return the
disputed land despite attempts at negotiations.  The ceremony took place just
hours after Israel and Syria concluded their first round of face-to-face talks
in Madrid, Spain. The two sides remained sharply divided over several issues,
including the Golan Heights.  The settlement is initially planned for about 25
families, most of them Soviet immigrants. Expansion in the next few years will
increase the population to 350 to 400 families.  Israel captured the strategic
area from Syria in the 1967 Middle East war and annexed it in 1981. About 12,000
Jewish settlers - including 1,000 Soviet immigrants - have moved to the sparsely
populated Golan, between northeastern Israel and Syria.  The housing of
immigrants on the Golan Heights is an open rejection of the views of Syria,
which wants the land back, and the United States, which opposes Jewish
settlement of disputed land.  The plateau dominates both Israeli Galilee to the
west and the Syrian plain stretching north toward Damascus. Israel says
permanent control of the area is vital for its security.  At Kela, about four
miles from the Syrian border, settlers and right-wing Cabinet ministers derided
the U.S. view that Jewish settlements were an obstacle to peace.  ''Every new
settlement, every Jew . . . enlarges our grip'' on the land, said Science
Minister Yuval Neeman, whose Tehiya Party has threatened to withdraw from the
government in protest against the Mideast peace conference. Agriculture Minister
Rafael Eitan also helped inaugurate the settlement.  ''We are here as an answer
to the tyrant of the East,'' Eitan said of Syrian President Hafez Assad.  ''The
Syrians are aggressors, tyrants. . . . This is the answer they deserve.''
Housing Minister Ariel Sharon, who greeted 36 Kela settlers and about 200
guests, also ridiculed the conference.  ''We are longing for a small handshake,
a second-long eye contact, a slight smile from this band of murderers which sits
beyond the security fence and continues to fool us,'' Sharon said in reference
to Syria.  Sharon, who masterminded Israel's invasion of Lebanon in 1982,
accused Assad of being a ''cruel dictator'' and called Syria ''a country
incomparable in its cruelty . . . a state that holds thousands of Jews hostage
and harasses them.'' Israel claims Syria is refusing to allow its Jewish
citizens to emigrate.  But settlements were the central issue at the Madrid
talks. Arabs claimed that Israel was using settlers to take hold of occupied
land before negotiations.  Under Sharon, 1,500 housing units have been started
on the Golan this year, with a similar number planned for 1992. About 108,000
Israelis live in the occupied West Bank, and about 4,000 in the Gaza Strip. A
total of 142 Jewish settlements exist in the two areas, where about 1.7 million
Palestinians also live.  Kela was founded in 1984 as a kibbutz, or collective
farm, but was abandoned in 1989. Later, it became a camp for settler-soldiers
and was handed over to the Soviet immigrants six weeks ago.  ''Of course it is
clear to me this is a political demonstration,'' said Vadim Belotzerkovsky, Kela
secretary. ''We are inaugurating this settlement because of our political
views.''

LOAD-DATE: October 13, 1993

LANGUAGE: English

GRAPHIC: Photo; PHOTO by AP...Russian immigrants strolling through a new
settlement Monday in the Golan Heights. The site is formerly a military camp.

                  Copyright 1991 St. Louis Post-Dispatch, Inc.


                              170 of 268 DOCUMENTS

                       St. Louis Post-Dispatch (Missouri)

                 November 15, 1991, FRIDAY, THREE STAR Edition

IMMIGRANT LOSES BID TO BECOME CABBIE

BYLINE: Virgil Tipton Of the Post-Dispatch Staff

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 4C

LENGTH: 312 words


A 58-year-old Russian immigrant who was laid off from jobs as a research chemist
lost his bid Thursday for a taxi license because of allegations that he bit off
the tip of another taxi driver's finger nearly four years ago.  The immigrant,
Semion Dub, called the decision by the St. Louis County Council an infringement
on his rights.  The biting incident ''occurred more than four years ago,'' Dub
said. ''They cannot persecute me for minor violations all my life. I am a new
person.'' The incident took place in February 1988.  Dub said he had no plans to
appeal the council's decision in court.  ''I have no money,'' he said.  Dub
asked the county's Department of Public Works earlier this year to grant him a
license to drive a taxi cab. Dub said he had been laid off from jobs at Monsanto
Co. and at McDonnell Douglas Corp. and was looking for temporary work to tide
him over.  But Richard A. Daley, the county's acting public works director,
refused to grant the license, citing the biting incident.  Dub was driving a cab
then, when he was again between jobs.  According to a police report, Dub and
another driver, also a Russian immigrant, got into a fight at the cab stand at
Lambert Field, and Dub bit off the tip of the other driver's finger.  Dub admits
that he spat on the other driver and bit his finger, but he denies that he bit
it off. ''My teeth are not shears, you know,'' he said.  Dub said he had become
angry because the other driver called Dub a Russian obscenity and had been
saying nasty things about his family on the radio.  ''He called my ex-wife a
whore and my son names,'' Dub said.  Despite Dub's protestations, the council
voted unanimously Thursday to uphold Daley's rejection.  ''We felt it wasn't in
the best interests of the public to let him keep driving cabs,'' said Councilman
Jim O'Mara of North County, D-4th District.

LOAD-DATE: October 13, 1993

LANGUAGE: English

                  Copyright 1991 St. Louis Post-Dispatch, Inc.


                              171 of 268 DOCUMENTS

                       St. Louis Post-Dispatch (Missouri)

                 November 21, 1991, THURSDAY, FIVE STAR Edition

LIMITS ARE NEEDED TO WELFARE COSTS

BYLINE: Debra Saunders

SECTION: EDITORIAL; Pg. 3C

LENGTH: 540 words


LOS ANGELES (REST) One of the worst things about being a columnist can be the
people who agree with you - not the majority of people who respond to the
reasoning of an argument, but the bigots who seize on any fact that can feed
their hatred of those who are different from, and often less fortunate than,
themselves.  This column, I fear, will be a feast for hate-mongers, so let me
begin by distancing myself from them. I don't for a minute believe most
immigrants come here for welfare. I couldn't care less if some Asians or
Hispanics h aven't learned English. And when I think of immigrants, I think of
hard-working people who have been brave and ambitious enough to venture to
America to improve their lives. But California has big problems because of
immigration - legal and illegal.  The expense of providing Medi-Cal care and
welfare benefits to newcomers is a heavy drag on the state's economy. The
federal government's immigration policies have burdened California this year
with $1.3 billion in mandated expenditures. The state Department of Social
Services estimates that nearly one-third of all refugees admitted to the United
States come to California and receive public aid in their first four months of
residence.  The drain is not caused by immigrants alone. California's Aid to
Families with Dependent Children benefits are the second highest in the country.
Illegal aliens also contribute to the burden. When their children born in here
become citizens, they become eligible for AFDC benefits. The problem, in part,
is the courts' interpretation of the Constitution. As California Gov. Pete
Wilson told Time magazine this month, the courts have decided that the right to
travel translates into the right to reside. From there, the courts have granted
a right to benefits. The courts have gone beyond requiring emergency Medi-Cal
services and schooling for those here illegally; they have prohibited
health-care providers from even asking about residency status.  The welfare
population had been growing twice as fast as the general population. Come May
1992 and May 1993, hundreds of thousands of adult immigrants who had been
ineligible for AFDC as part of their amnesty application for citizenship will
become eligible again.  It's one thing to welcome those who come to work, but
California must open its wallet to those who come to not work. Little can be
done to ameliorate the situation in the short term. It's a question of either
changing the Constitution or waiting for the courts to change their
interpretation of it.  Wilson has recommended a waiting period before new
arrivals to the state can receive state benefits. But to get such a waiting
period to work, Wilson must figure out a way to squeak it by the courts.  Nobody
can blame people for coming here for needed Medi-Cal care or to have a child
here. But voters can blame a government that doesn't protect their interests. In
the long run, the present setup is in no one's interest, not when productive
businesses are leaving the state because of high costs and taxation. By all
means, allow as many legal immigrants into the country as the economy can
accommodate. But there have to be limits.  Copyright 1991 New York Times News
Service

LOAD-DATE: October 13, 1993

LANGUAGE: English

                  Copyright 1991 St. Louis Post-Dispatch, Inc.


                              172 of 268 DOCUMENTS

                       St. Louis Post-Dispatch (Missouri)

                  November 25, 1991, MONDAY, FIVE STAR Edition

IMMIGRANTS AGENCY OFFERS COUPONS FOR AREA'S ETHNIC EATERIES

SECTION: BUSINESS PLUS; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 776 words


The International Institute, a United Way member agency, has produced a booklet
of coupons featuring some international and ethnic restaurants in the area.  It
is called ''Tastes From Around the World'' and contains two-for-one coupons for
entrees at various restaurants. Some of the ethnic groups represented are
Ethiopian, Thai, Jamaican, Mexican, Italian, Vietnamese, Cajun and Chinese.  The
books retail for $15. Proceeds will benefit the institute's English literacy
classes and immigration counseling program.  In addition to individual sales,
the institute is offering other local non-profit groups the opportunity to sell
the coupon books as a fund-raising tool.  The institute works to foster
cross-cultural understanding while providing adjustment services to nearly 3,000
new Americans a year.  Robert Sanford CRAFT STORES Frank's Opening 5 Stores Here
Just For Christmas Frank's Nursery & Crafts is spreading its retail cheer this
season by opening 100 temporary Christmas specialty stores, including five in
this market.  The idea of opening temporary stores, most of them in malls, was
tested successfully last year, the company said. In a pilot program of five
seasonal stores, average sales totaled $100,000 each.  Installed this month, the
seasonal stores each have about 3,000 square feet of selling space. They stock
artificial trees, decorations, lights and holiday accessories.  The five
seasonal stores here are at Alton Square in Alton, Northwest Plaza in St. Ann,
Chesterfield Mall in Chesterfield, Mid Rivers Mall in St.  Peters and Jamestown
Mall in north St. Louis County. Frank's has nine other regular stores in this
market. Frank's Nursery & Crafts, based in Detroit, has 278 stores in 17 states.
It is a subsidiary of General Host Corp. of Stamford, Conn.  Babette Morgan
STOCKS Ralston On Brokerage's Preferred Investment List PaineWebber Inc. has
added Ralston Purina Co. of St. Louis to its Focus List, a group of stocks it
believes are attractive for investment.  When a stock is included in the Focus
List, PaineWebber analysts observe it closely. Since it was created in 1982, the
30 Focus List stocks have risen 611 percent compared to the 371 percent increase
shown by the Standard & Poors 500 Index.  PaineWebber executive Cali Cole said
she was optimistic about Ralston.  ''We feel that Ralston Purina is the right
stock at the right time,'' Cole said. ''It gives us potential for growth in
earnings and dividends, as well as a strong global presence.'' Robert Manor
AWARDS 7 Entrepreneurs Inducted Into National Organization Seven St. Louis
recipients of the 1991 Entrepreneur of the Year Award have been inducted into
the Institute of American Entrepreneurs at the institute's annual meeting in in
Boca Raton, Fla.  The six inducted are: Dr. Ira Gall, of The Medicine Shoppe
International Inc.  Mike Mellinger, of Data Research Associates.  Katie
Muchnick, of St. Louis Small Business Monthly.  Jacqueline Phillips, of Advanced
Nursing Services of St. Louis.  Mike Postiglione, of Avanti Technologies Inc.
Dr. Mitchell Yanow, of The Medicine Shoppe International Inc.  Greg Zavaglia, of
Interior Construction Services Ltd.  The annual Entrepreneur of the Year Award
is a national contest sponsored by Ernst & Young Inc., a professional services
firm; Inc. Magazine; and Merrill Lynch Business Financial Services Inc.  The
contest received more than 3,000 nominations in 37 regional competitions.  This
year, 330 awards were given out nationwide.  William Flannery PERSONNEL Aging Of
Work Force Topic Of Seminar Here How the aging of the American work force
affects business will be the focus of a seminar here next month.  Among its
topics will be retirement planning and support for employees who are caring for
their parents.  The meeting also will address how businesses may need to
re-evaluate their hiring, retention and training practices as the number of
young people entering the labor force declines.  The seminar, a joint effort of
Missouri and Illinois, will be 8 a.m. to noon, Dec. 3, at Landmark Place, 1401
South Brentwood Boulevard, at Highway 40.  Southwestern Bell Telephone Co.,
Landmark Bank and Magna Bank are major corporate sponsors of the event, along
with the Missouri and Illinois Departments on Aging, the Washington Business
Group on Health and a number of regional co-sponsors.  The fee is $15 a person.
One hundred seats are available.  The seminar is the third of four related to
business, labor and aging spearheaded by the Illinois Department on Aging. For
information, call Carole Kopis at the Southwestern Illinois Area Agency on
Aging, (618) 632-1323.  Babette Morgan

LOAD-DATE: October 13, 1993

LANGUAGE: English

GRAPHIC: Photo; PHOTO ....Entrepreneur award winners from left: bottom row,
Katie Muchnick, Greg Zavaglia and Jacqueline Phillips; top row, Dr. Mitchell
Yanow, Mike Postiglione, Mike Mellinger and Dr. Ira Gall.

                  Copyright 1991 St. Louis Post-Dispatch, Inc.


                              173 of 268 DOCUMENTS

                       St. Louis Post-Dispatch (Missouri)

                 December 28, 1991, SATURDAY, FIVE STAR Edition

ISRAEL 477 FORMER SOVIETS REACH ISRAEL BY SHIP

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 7A

LENGTH: 757 words


To applause and the jubilant sound of a ram's horn, a ship brought 477 Jews from
the former Soviet Union to Israel on Friday in the first such trip by sea since
the wave of immigration began two years ago.  Four tugboats pulled the
golden-hulled Greek vessel Mediterranean Sky into Haifa bay as immigrants on the
deck sought out relatives and loved ones gathered on shore. One immigrant blew a
shofar, the horn sounded on important Jewish holidays.  (NOTE: THE FOLLOWING
PARAGRAPH APPEARED IN THE 3* EDITION ONLY) To some Israelis, it was a scene
reminiscent of their country's early days, when most immigrants arrived by ship.
Others worried about security concerns.  (END OF 3* EDITION TEXT) Associated
Press ISRAEL Bush Once Sought To Cut Aid, Haig Says President George Bush, while
vice president in 1981, sought to cut all U.S.  aid to Israel after its jets
attacked an Iraqi nuclear reactor, former Secretary of State Alexander Haig
said.  ''Everyone in the Cabinet, including the vice president at the time, . .
.  demanded that we cut off all aid to Israel, economic and military,'' because
of what participants at the meeting called an outrageous breach of international
law, Haig said in an army radio interview broadcast Friday.  Haig said President
Ronald Reagan had rejected the proposal.  Reuters INDIA Massacre Won't Stop
Elections In Punjab The governor of Punjab said Friday that the massacre of 51
train passengers by Sikh separatists would not stop his government from holding
elections. Witnesses said 10 Sikhs had stopped the train carrying workers home
to their villages from Ludhiana on Thursday evening and had raked the cars with
bullets from assault rifles after letting Sikh passengers get off. The gunmen
repeatedly shouted, ''Stop the elections!'' witnesses said.  (NOTE: THE
FOLLOWING PARAGRAPH APPEARED IN THE 3* EDITION ONLY) Surinder Nath, the
federally appointed governor of Punjab, said plans would continue for elections
for the state legislature. Voting will be held before Feb. 15.  (END OF 3*
EDITION TEXT) Associated Press AUSTRALIA New Prime Minister Chooses Treasurer
Prime Minister Paul Keating appointed on Friday Australia's fourth treasurer in
seven months in a Cabinet reshuffle aimed at pulling the nation out of
recession.  John Dawkins was named treasurer, the most senior economic post,
partly for his help last week to Keating in ousting Bob Hawke as Labor
government leader.  Reuters PERU Tribunal Throws Out Case Against Garcia A
Supreme Court tribunal in Lima ruled Friday that it had too little evidence to
warrant trying former President Alan Garcia on embezzlement charges.  In
upholding a lower judge's finding, the tribunal ended the case against Garcia,
the first former leader to face prosecution in Peru's 170 years as a republic.
Garcia denied any wrongdoing and said he was the victim of a political smear
campaign.  The attorney general leveled charges last month arising from
allegations that Garcia had used $400,000 in public money to build three houses
for himself in Lima.  In addition, Congress held a yearlong inquiry into
accusations that Garcia stole $50 million from the Treasury and illegally sold a
purchase contract for 14 French Mirage fighters to a third party in 1985.
Associated Press NATION MIAMI 100 Haitians Taken To U.S. From Cuba A group of
100 Haitian refugees seeking political freedom was being flown Friday to Miami
from Guantanamo Bay, Cuba, military authorities said.  The Haitians, among those
who fled from their country in the wake of September's military coup, were
issued 90-day work permits by the Immigration and Naturalization Service
officials at the Navy base. Today they will fill out applications for political
asylum.  Another group, of 130 Haitians, voluntarily began a trip back to their
homeland Thursday aboard a U.S. Coast Guard cutter. These Haitians said they
''no longer wished to remain at Guantanamo Bay nor wished to immigrate to the
U.S.,'' said Air Force Staff Sgt. Rick Fligor, a military spokesman at
Guantanamo Bay.  Reuters (NOTE: THE FOLLOWING TEXT APPEARED IN THE 3* EDITION
ONLY) MIAMI Noriega Trial Delayed While Judge Recovers The drug and racketeering
trial of former Panamanian leader Manuel Noriega will be delayed for nearly
three weeks while the presiding judge recovers from open-heart surgery, the
judge's office said Friday.  U.S. District Judge William M. Hoeveler was listed
in stable condition Friday at Mercy Hospital after undergoing triple-bypass
heart surgery Tuesday.  Associated Press

LOAD-DATE: October 13, 1993

LANGUAGE: English

                  Copyright 1991 St. Louis Post-Dispatch, Inc.


                              174 of 268 DOCUMENTS

                       St. Louis Post-Dispatch (Missouri)

                  January 13, 1989, FRIDAY, THREE STAR Edition

SOVIET IMMIGRANTS GET MORE U.S. SLOTS

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 6B

LENGTH: 174 words


WASHINGTON - President Ronald Reagan has decided to increase the number of
Soviet refugees who can come to the United States this year, to a total of
25,000. He will compensate by reducing the number reserved for Southeast Asian
refugees, administration officials said Wednesday.  The State Department
estimates that 50,000 Soviets, most of them Jews and Armenians, will file
applications to come to the United States this year as refugees.  Reagan's
action provoked an outcry from some Asian-Americans and from groups that work
with refugees from Indochina. Reagan's decision would give Soviet emigres 6,500
of the 53,000 refugee places originally earmarked for Southeast Asians.

LOAD-DATE: October 23, 1993

LANGUAGE: English

                  Copyright 1989 St. Louis Post-Dispatch, Inc.


                              175 of 268 DOCUMENTS

                       St. Louis Post-Dispatch (Missouri)

                January 15, 1989, SUNDAY, LATE FIVE STAR Edition

REFUGEES FROM CENTRAL AMERICA OVERWHELMING SOUTHERN FLORIDA

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 10B

LENGTH: 1480 words


MIAMI - A solid stream of Central American ''bus people'' poured into Dade
County this past week, getting an uneasy reception from civic leaders and
Nicaraguans who settled here shortly after the 1979 revolution.  Mayor Xavier
Suarez sought an emergency meeting with President Ronald Reagan, and other local
officials urged President-elect George Bush to come see the situation for
himself.  A mass of homeless, hungry Central Americans arrived Thursday and
Friday in Greyhound buses. They were the first wave of people pouring in from
southern Texas after a federal judge ruled that the government no longer could
keep them there.  Most are from Nicaragua, escaping the guerrilla war or the
economic disaster it has caused. At least 400 have arrived since the judge
issued his ruling Monday, and local officials expect 100,000 more in the next 18
months.  ''The current system is out of control and unfair to Florida,'' said
Sen.  Bob Graham, D-Fla. ''If Washington learned anything from (the 1980 Mariel
boatlift), it's that America must have an immigration policy based on order and
fairness.'' The Mariel boatlift brought 125,000 Cubans to southern Florida over
five months. Local authorities shouldered most of the cost of resettling the
refugees.  The current situation is so serious that authorities have been forced
to house about 250 Nicaraguans in Miami's Bobby Maduro Stadium, the
spring-training home of the Baltimore Orioles. After immigrants jammed the
bleachers and dressing rooms, officials closed the stadium's doors and declared
it full to capacity. Beans and rice were cooking in the concession stands.
Children were swarming around a card table loaded with glazed donuts. Adults
were talking about getting apartments - and jobs.  Liliana Romero washed a
bundle of sheets and clothing, using detergent, cinder blocks and a stadium
groundskeeping hose. She hung the wet, clean clothes on a batting-cage frame and
talked about her family's future in America. ''We don't want money for food or
clothing,'' she said. ''We're used to working.'' Her son, Jader, 5, rode a toy
sports car near her. ''His future is here,'' she said.  City workers were trying
to move the homeless immigrants into apartments but were having a tough time
persuading landlords to take them. Not many were willing to forgo the typical
prepayments of the first month's rent, the last month's rent and security
deposit.  Ana Gispert, a city worker, said: ''What we don't want is a room in
exchange for work.'' Some of those offering the immigrants a place to stay or a
job proposed deals that bordered on exploitation, the social workers explained.
The number of Nicaraguans in Dade County has been growing since the Sandinista
Revolution of 1979. But some Nicaraguan residents regret the flood of people
now, because it saps the opposition in Nicaragua.  In addition, most of the new
arrivals are poor, unskilled and illiterate - unlike the Nicaraguans, most of
them educated and middle-class, who came to Miami in the early 1980s. Officials
in southern Florida fear that the new immigrants will strain already overcrowded
schools, housing and public-health services.  Isidoro Cuevas, Cuban-born mayor
of Sweetwater, said his city would have trouble absorbing the aliens. Sweetwater
is a heavily Nicaraguan city in western Dade County.  ''We've been trying to
gather clothes and food to pass it on to them,'' he said. ''But there are many
dwellings shared by more than one family already.  People are sleeping on the
front porches, sleeping on the couches.'' Other local officials reacted in
various ways: Dade County Manager Joaquin Avino called on the federal government
to curtail the flow of Nicaraguans from Mexico, to grant work permits to those
who have already arrived and to reimburse governments in southern Florida for
costs related to the new immigrants.  Miami City Manager Cesar Odio said, ''We
are putting pressure on the federal government to accept responsibility for
something they have created.'' Florida Gov. Bob Martinez was preparing a plea to
U.S. Attorney General Dick Thornburgh for federal aid.  The Dade County
government even sent a delegation to the Texas border to try to persuade
Nicaraguan immigrants not to come to southern Florida unless they have families
willing to help.  Dade County officials met Friday with the mayor of
Brownsville, Texas, a South Texas border city. The delegation put out the word
that Miami cannot handle refugees who have no place to stay. It also inquired
about allegations that Brownsville has been subsidizing the $89 one-way fare to
Miami for some of the refugees.  Brownsville Mayor Ygnacio Gacza responded:
''Any rumors that we are actively promoting Miami are false.'' More than 30,000
Central Americans passed through southern Texas this past year, seeking
political asylum, the Immigration and Naturalization Service said.  The
most-recent flow to Miami resulted from a federal judge's order Monday lifting a
government travel ban on 5,000 refugees. They had been restricted for weeks to
the Brownsville area. The judge allowed them to travel to other U.S. cities
while their claims to be granted political asylum were being processed.  Most
immediately chose Miami.  (3* edition continuation) Outside Bobby Maduro
Stadium, Jose Paez, 39, said Friday that he had arrived from Texas two days
before and had been sleeping on the ground outside the stadium.  ''Whe n they
gave us the green light Monday, immigration people told us that we would be
taken care of in Miami,'' Paez said. ''Unfortunately, when we got here, they
told us they couldn't let us in.''

LOAD-DATE: October 23, 1993

LANGUAGE: English

GRAPHIC: Photo; PHOTO by AP...Nicaraguan refugees sitting among their belongings
Friday outside the Bobby Maduro Stadium in Miami. (photo appears in 3* edition)

                  Copyright 1989 St. Louis Post-Dispatch, Inc.


                              176 of 268 DOCUMENTS

                       St. Louis Post-Dispatch (Missouri)

                 January 19, 1989, THURSDAY, FIVE STAR Edition

EXPLOSION: MIAMI TRIES TO FATHOM THE VIOLENCE NEW OUTBREAK IS 4TH EPISODE IN;
OVERTOWN AREA SINCE 1980

BYLINE: Mike Preston 1989, The Sun, Baltimore

SECTION: WAR PAGE; Pg. 1A

LENGTH: 987 words


MIAMI OVERTOWN IS a predominantly black neighborhood in downtown Miami with a
population of nearly 14,000. Most of the buildings are two-storied, boarded up
and uninhabitable.  Drugs are sold openly on every other corner. The streets,
strewn with debris, are usually populated with nondescript men on the corners,
sitting on beat-up sofas or overturned shopping carts. Stray dogs almost
outnumber the people.  But on Tuesday, Overtown was anything but noisy. Fear was
evident. Schools were closed, and so were some stores. Few people talked,
although some children standing near a police roadblock were singing, ''We Shall
Overcome.'' Then Tuesday night, for the second straight night, Overtown's
streets lit up the Miami sky.  The latest round of violence is the fourth
similar incident in Overtown since 1980. It is a community beset by problems,
from prostitution to drugs.  Its biggest concern, though, is dealing with the
job competition from the steady flow of immigrants into the Miami area.
According to city officials, Overtown's average income is less than $7,000, and
55 percent of the population is unemployed.  Overtown's community leaders say
their earning power has gone down with the rising number of Cubans and other
refugees who come into the Miami area.  The latest wave of immigration is from
Nicaragua. The newcomers have been greeted with an outpouring of charity and
have been sheltered at Bobby Maduro Miami Stadium, an action that has upset
Miami's black community.  ''All of the refugees that come over here . . . Why
are we (the government) so concerned about them instead of us?'' asked the Rev.
Thomas Ferguson, pastor of the South Florida Under God Church. ''They have not
dropped one blood for American soil. It's not fair. We are taxpayers. We are
American citizens. We are part of the American dream.  Where is this justice?
Why do we have to wait until a situation like this before we try to solve the
problem?'' Residents of Overtown feel that Cubans, and eventually the
Nicuraguans, will take jobs away from blacks. Tyrone Jones, 29, a butcher in an
Overtown grocery, said that's why only white stores were hit by vandals during
the first night.  ''The white store owners want to pay the refugees less money
or they want to work us 60 to 70 hours a week,'' said Jones, who was shot in the
leg by police in 1980.  ''I wouldn't be surprised if more white stores are
burned. I've heard that we will take this rioting to the Super Bowl so the
nation will understand our problems, not just local government. We are tired of
being talked down to.  ''This is no place to live, no place to raise a family.
If they can give the Cubans and Nicaraguans money, I want mine first. Or move
them here, and let me have the advantages and benefits they do.'' A series of
incidents involving police also has contributed to tensions in the black
community.  PULSE, a group of black ministers organized to improve conditions
for black Miami after the 1980 riots, has repeatedly alleged b rutality on the
part of police officers.  ''The police are worthless,'' said Tawanda Johnson,
16. ''It's the way they talk to people; it's very condescending. They don't
shoot to halt in this neighborhood. They shoot to kill.'' Mayor Xavier Suarez of
Miami said he found nothing to substantiate claims by some blacks that the
unrest was caused by resentment over the waves of Nicaraguan immigrants coming
to Miami.  ''The people know we are working toward finding out the truth,'' said
Suarez. ''We're looking to normalize everything and keep police presence as
unobtrusive as possible. As far as the Super Bowl, the city braces. We hold our
breath.'' The National Football League's office issued a short statement Tuesday
saying only that officials were keeping an eye on the situation.  When Overtown
resident Jones heard about it, he replied: ''If I was the NFL, I would keep my
eyes, ears, feet and the rest of my body out of the stadium on Super Bowl
Sunday.''

LOAD-DATE: October 23, 1993

LANGUAGE: English

                  Copyright 1989 St. Louis Post-Dispatch, Inc.


                              177 of 268 DOCUMENTS

                       St. Louis Post-Dispatch (Missouri)

                January 22, 1989, SUNDAY, LATE FIVE STAR Edition

WALL OF HONOR HELPS FUND RESTORATION PROJECT

SECTION: EVERYDAY MAGAZINE; Pg. 10F

LENGTH: 400 words


IN 1885, when money was needed to complete the pedestal at the base of the
newStatue of Liberty, Joseph Pulitzer turned to the American people. He waged a
fund-raising drive on the front page of his New York newspaper, ''The World.''
In five months, 125,000 Americans contributed $100,000 to complete the pedestal.
A century later, it has cost $320 million to restore both the Statue of Liberty
and nearby Ellis Island. All but the final $5 million has been raised.  In the
Pulitzer tradition, Lee Iacocca (chairman emeritus of the privately funded
Statue of Liberty-Ellis Island Foundation) is making one last, grand
fund-raising appeal.  He evolved the idea for the American Immigrant Wall of
Honor. The wall is intended to be a collective display, representing the
individual family heritages that created the history of America.  Anyone who
makes a tax-deductible contribution of $100 or more can designate a family name
or a specific person's name to be placed on the wall, which will be situated
just off the Great Hall in the Ellis Island Immigration Museum. All immigrants'
names qualify, whether they passed through Ellis or not. The wall represents the
first opportunity to place an immigrant's name on permanent public display at a
national monument.  The deadline for reserving space is June 1. To donate and
place an inscription, write to: Statue of Liberty-Ellis Island Foundation, 52
Vanderbilt Avenue, New York, N.Y. 10017, or call (212) 883-1986.  - Dennis Brown

LOAD-DATE: October 23, 1993

LANGUAGE: English

                  Copyright 1989 St. Louis Post-Dispatch, Inc.


                              178 of 268 DOCUMENTS

                       St. Louis Post-Dispatch (Missouri)

                 January 25, 1989, WEDNESDAY, FIVE STAR Edition

YEARNING TO BE FREE

SECTION: EDITORIAL; Pg. 2B

LENGTH: 254 words


As the Jan. 16 editorial on immigration so accurately stated, no group wants to
gain refugee slots at the expense of other refugees. The National Jewish
Community Relations Advisory Council, comprised of local and national community
relations councils, supports legislation to provide a more open legal
immigration policy for all categories of eligible immigrants. It is the
responsibility of our government to strive to maintain the pluralistic character
of our society. Our government must be sensitive to the plight of refugees
around the world, including Jewish refugees from the Soviet Union and refugees
from Indochina, Africa and Central America. We will continue to join with others
to press the U.S. government to meet its responsibility in the absorption of
refugees through increases in refugee slots and funding.  Maury Poscover
Domestic Issues Committee Jewish Community Relations Council Creve Coeur

LOAD-DATE: October 23, 1993

LANGUAGE: English

                  Copyright 1989 St. Louis Post-Dispatch, Inc.


                              179 of 268 DOCUMENTS

                       St. Louis Post-Dispatch (Missouri)

                 January 26, 1989, THURSDAY, FIVE STAR Edition

U.S. PLANS BORDER DITCH AGAINST DRUGS FROM MEXICO

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 12A

LENGTH: 800 words


WASHINGTON (AP) - A four-mile-long ditch that one official of the Justice
Department compared Wednesday to a ''buried Berlin Wall'' is being planned for a
stretch of the U.S.-Mexican border in an effort to stem drug smuggling into
Southern California.  But the plan is being criticized as ''too little, too
late'' by a group that advocates building fences along the border. And
immigrant-rights organizations are criticizing the plan as repressive.
Associate Attorney General Francis A. Keating II said he had proposed the idea
last fall as a way to discourage drug smugglers from driving loads of cocaine,
marijuana and heroin across the border near San Diego.  Keating said the
Immigration and Naturalization Service was undertaking the plan, which was
approved last month by Attorney General Dick Thornburgh.  Keating likened the
ditch to ''our buried Berlin Wall.'' He said it would be deep and wide enough to
discourage smugglers from driving trucks and cars across the border along a
four-mile stretch of flat desert east of San Ysidro, Calif.  Keating said the
desert stretch in the Otay Mesa area east of San Ysidro was a major
drug-smuggling route.  ''The cocaine, marijuana and heroin from Mexico is being
carried across the border between the points of entry'' that are operated by the
Customs Service, said Keating, who is leaving office with the start of the
administration of President George Bush.  ''This is not intended in any way to
interfere with legitimate traffic or trade,'' he said. ''It is not intended to
stop legal entry.'' Keating said that although the Border Patrol had tried to
stop traffic across the desert by digging shallow trenches, smugglers had been
able to fill in the ditches to drive through.  ''No country is a country that
can't protect its border,'' said Keating, who oversaw law-enforcement agencies
in the Justice Department, including the Border Patrol. ''This is one of many
systems to do it.  ''I am sure it will be applauded by people who are sick and
tired of the deluge of cocaine and heroin that is flowing across the Mexican
border,'' Keating said in an interview.  But the plan has its critics.  ''The
drainage ditch is too little, too late if it is to be taken seriously as a
method of deterring illegal entry,'' said Patrick Burns, assistant director of
the Federation for American Immigration Reform.  ''There is a serious problem at
San Diego of which a very, very small component is high-speed drive-throughs''
by drug smugglers, said Burns. His organization is preparing to release a study
proposing ways to ''harden'' the U.S.-Mexican border.  Eugene Hernandez, an
official of the Mexican-American Political Association in Los Angeles, called
the plan ''a very repressive and a very ill-founded idea.'' ''Rather than
constructing the ditch, I think they should hire more people, more agents at the
border,'' Hernandez said.  (3* edition continuation) The isolated Otay Mesa area
is a gateway into Southern California for illegal immigrants.

LOAD-DATE: October 23, 1993

LANGUAGE: English

GRAPHIC: Map; MAPS...FOUR MILE DITCH...showing location of proposed ditch in the
Otay Mesa area east of San Ysidro, California; insert shows Area Of Detail

                  Copyright 1989 St. Louis Post-Dispatch, Inc.


                              180 of 268 DOCUMENTS

                       St. Louis Post-Dispatch (Missouri)

                  February 10, 1989, FRIDAY, FIVE STAR Edition

FAILED U.S. POLICIES COLLIDED IN MIAMI

BYLINE: Clarence Page

SECTION: EDITORIAL; Pg. 3B

LENGTH: 827 words


CHICAGO The difference between the urban riots of the 1960s and the Miami riots
of the '80s is the difference between hope and no hope. In the '60s it was a
time of expanding civil rights at home and massive spending to rid ourselves of
poverty. There was a sense that a cure for our urban ills was in reach. The four
Miami riots that have erupted in the past eight years occurred in a time of
retrenchment on the civil rights front.  With its native-born black underclass
growing increasingly resentful of continuing waves of Caribbean and Latin
American refugees, Miami in the '80s is a crucible of ethnic unrest: ''Where our
failed foreign policy clashes with our failed urban policy'' is the description
of one Cuban-born woman.  The problem is more than skin deep. The plight of
Miami's poor black neighborhoods contrasts sharply with the conditions of
Miami's ''other blacks.'' Most of the city's 70,000 Haitian immigrants arrived,
like most of its Hispanics, as penniless refugees. Yet within one generation,
foreign-born blacks, like other immigrants, typically exceed the average
national income of native-born whites.  Miami's ''Little Haiti'' section teems
with shops, not as prosperous as ''Little Havana'' perhaps, but still safe and
attractive enough to lure white tourists. That's more than you can say fo r the
city's riot-torn neighborhoods, Overtown and Liberty City.  The new
opportunities pretty much passed Miami's blacks by. Cuban refugees used up huge
portions of our limited anti-poverty pie, particularly Small Business
Administration loans that might have helped blacks become economically
independent. Urban renewal did little for blacks but cut expressways across
their neighborhoods, ripping into an already deteriorating social fabric. The
refugees arrived in Miami with their self-help resources intact while the
healthy influences of black self-help networks were breaking down.  These
morality-enforcing and spiritually enriching community institutions were being
displaced by government programs, a new welfare network that fostered dependency
by penalizing two-parent, working, low-income families and rewarding those who
shunned work, education and other initiatives that might get them off welfare.
By contrast, Haitian refugees had no choice but to turn to each other, using
their common heritage, language and social networks to open their own businesses
or take menial jobs native-born Americans rejected, even though it is those very
same menial jobs that provide for many a first step up the ladder of success.
Well-meaning programs destroyed the confidence necessary for individuals to take
risks. Yet risks are the way those of us not born to wealth can pursue it and
achieve success. The risk-takers in black Miami were the first to move out,
leaving the city's black community bereft of middle-class role models and ripe
for the formation of a new black underclass. Stir in a sense of hopelessness,
and you have a recipe for anarchy.  Miami is the place where our failed foreign
policy clashes with our failed urban policies. But haven't we examined our
failures long enough? Isn't it time for us to learn from those who have
succeeded?

LOAD-DATE: October 23, 1993

LANGUAGE: English

                  Copyright 1989 St. Louis Post-Dispatch, Inc.


                              181 of 268 DOCUMENTS

                       St. Louis Post-Dispatch (Missouri)

                 February 12, 1989, SUNDAY, THREE STAR Edition

LOTTERY TO OFFER VISAS FOR 20,000 IMMIGRANTS

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 12C

LENGTH: 627 words


WASHINGTON (AP) - The State Department says 10,000 extra visas will be issued
randomly next year and in 1991 to immigrants from 162 nations.  Eligible for the
lottery are citizens of the Soviet Union, Poland and several other nations whose
refugee quotas are filled, the State Department said Thursday. The application
period is March 1 through March 31. Unlike the last such lottery, in 1986, the
visas will not be issued on a first-come, first-served basis.  Instead, the
applications will be fed to computers and the selections made randomly.
Immigrants from all the eligible nations will have an equal chance.  Unlike
refugees, who are generally given haven for political reasons, immigrants are
required to have close relatives in the United States or have a needed
profession. But these requirements will be waived for the total of 20,000 to be
admitted under the special program.  Only screening for mental or criminal
liabilities will be conducted, U.S.  officials said.  The only nations excluded
are those that used fewer than 5,000 immigrant slots in the fiscal year that
ended last year. These are China, Colombia, the Dominican Republic, El Salvador,
Guyana, Haiti, India, Jamaica, South Korea, Mexico, the Philippines, the United
Kingdom and Taiwan.  Also excluded are natives of Anguilla, Bermuda, British
Virgin Islands, Cayman Islands, Falkland Islands, Gibraltar, Hong Kong,
Monteserrat and Pitcairn, St. Helena, Turks and Caicos islands.  A lottery for
10,000 visas was offered in 1986. About 1.4 million applicants lost out. Last
month, in a move to admit more Soviet and East European refugees, then-President
Ronald Reagan decided to increase this fiscal year's quota by 7,000 by lowering
the quota of Vietnamese refugees, many of whom are former political prisoners.
The decision brought to 25,000 the number of Soviets who will be allowed to
enter the United States. Although most of the extra slots will be taken from the
quota for refugees from Vietnam, U.S. officials stressed that the president has
considerable flexibility to alter the totals later.  Thousands of Soviet
refugees, many of them Jews, are in Vienna, Austria, and Rome, waiting for
permission to come to the United States. The quota for them to enter this nation
is now full.  The lottery announced Thursday will give them a chance to enter
the nation as immigrants - but the chance will be no greater than that of
applicants from the 161 other nations that are eligible.

LOAD-DATE: October 23, 1993

LANGUAGE: English

                  Copyright 1989 St. Louis Post-Dispatch, Inc.


                              182 of 268 DOCUMENTS

                       St. Louis Post-Dispatch (Missouri)

                 February 21, 1989, TUESDAY, FIVE STAR Edition

REJECTED ALIENS MAY BE JAILED

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 1A

LENGTH: 1280 words


BROWNSVILLE, Texas - Central Americans applying for asylum in the United States
will get an answer in a day or two - and face immediate imprisonment if
rejected, officials said Monday.  Five hundred people will be added to the
Immigration and Naturalization Service staff in southern Texas to patrol the
border and to speed up the weeding out of ''frivolous'' asylum claims,
Immigration Service Commissioner Alan C. Nelson announced.  More jails will be
built to hold people who are turned down pending deportation or their appeal of
that rejection, he said.  ''We intend to send a strong signal to those people
who have the mistaken idea that by merely filing a frivolous asylum claim, they
may stay in the United States,'' Nelson said. ''This willful manipulation of
America's generosity must stop.  ''We must use detent ion and deportation, or
otherwise these people disappear into the woodwork.'' The policy will be phased
in over the next several weeks. Nelson said the Immigration Service hoped
eventually to process most asylum applications in the region in a day or two.
Currently, asylum decisions can take months.  Agency spokeswoman Virginia Kice
said, ''We hope to have same-day service.'' The changes were announced the same
day that the Immigration Service was allowed to reinstate a policy restricting
people seeking asylum from leaving southern Texas while they await decisions.
Before Dec. 16, the Immigration and Naturalization Service allowed Central
Americans seeking asylum to check in at its southern Texas district and then
travel anywhere in the United States while their cases were reviewed. But after
Dec. 16, the agency made them stay in the Brownsville area during the review,
forcing them to live in tents and trying the patience of residents and relief
agencies.  Responding to a suit filed by attorneys representing the people
seeking asylum, U.S. District Judge Filemon Vela issued a temporary order Jan. 9
requiring the Immigration and Naturalization Service to allow the Central
Americans to travel, while their appeals were being reviewed. Thousands -
especially Nicaraguans - headed for Miami. On Friday, Judge Vela ruled that the
agency could return to the policy of restricting the movement of people seeking
asylum.  Tens of thousands of Central Americans are expected to cross the Rio
Grande into southern Texas this year, according to the Immigration Service. The
service says political asylum requests from Central Americans have risen almost
sevenfold over the last four years. More than 50,000 sought asylum in the fiscal
year that ended Sept. 30, compared with 7,063 in the fiscal year that ended
Sept. 30, 1985.  This year, according to the agency's records, 3,136 people
applied for asylum between Wednesday and Sunday at the agency's Port Isabel
Processing Center, a rural detention center 15 miles northeast of Brownsville,
the main entry point for Central Americans seeking asylum in the United States.
They contend that they are fleeing the guerrilla wars in Central America, but
immigration officials maintain that most are in the United States for economic
reasons and do not qualify for asylum from persecution.  Roughly half of the
Central Americans seeking asylum are from Nicaragua, Nelson said.  Under the new
policy, those denied asylum may either return immediately to their home
countries or appeal for a hearing before an immigration judge where they may
renew their applications for asylum. Nelson said he did not know how long it
might take for a person to get that hearing before a judge.  While they await
deportation, single adults will be detained at prisonlike detention centers;
family groups may be allowed to stay in less-restrictive facilities that will be
set up, Nelson said.  He said that, if more detention space was needed, the
Immigration Service could erect tents to house up to 5,000 people.  In reaction,
Mark Schneider, a lawyer, said, ''This is a blatant attempt to discourage
refugees from pursuing their legal right to apply for asylum and to have a fair
hearing. The INS is predisposed that all these refugee claims are frivolous and
are here only for economic reasons.'' Mary Carnesi of the Brownsville Ad Hoc
Refugee Committee said, ''The new INS policy is a mean-spirited attempt to deter
political refugees from applying for political asylum. Refugees with legitimate
claims to political asylum will suffer most. They will be forced underground by
fear of imprisonment and will be further victimized by smugglers.'' Although
hundreds of Hondurans, Nicaraguans, Salvadorans and Guatemalans have camped
outside the Port Isabel Processing Center in temperatures dropping into the 40s
waiting to apply for asylum, many have been grateful for their reception. Local
residents have provided food and blankets.  ''We expected people at the border
aiming rifles at us, but the American people have been very kind, very generous,
and we appreciate it,'' said Marcio Nunez of Honduras, as he ate a meal of rice
and beans provided by members of a church in Port Isabel.  ''In Honduras, we
have a very bad concept of the United States, because of all the Mexican movies
showing mean agents,'' Nunez added, ''but you have been very generous.''

LOAD-DATE: October 23, 1993

LANGUAGE: English

                  Copyright 1989 St. Louis Post-Dispatch, Inc.


                              183 of 268 DOCUMENTS

                       St. Louis Post-Dispatch (Missouri)

                    March 3, 1989, FRIDAY, FIVE STAR Edition

SMUGGLER OF ALIENS BOARDS 12

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 4C

LENGTH: 560 words


LOS ANGELES (AP) - Jose Luis Hernandez put three ''cousins'' on Eastern Airlines
Flight 80, a red-eye bound for New York via Atlanta. A little later he boarded
six more.  ''Oh, they're my cousins, too,'' he told a Los Angeles Times
reporter. But he also admitted shuttling illegal aliens.  In all Tuesday night,
Hernandez boarded 12 ''cousins,'' young men arriving in twos and threes, most
carrying no luggage. Some held grocery bags filled with belongings. All spoke
Spanish.  They were bound for a better life in New York, using Eastern Airlines
as what immigration officials call an unknowing conduit in a transcontinental
smuggling operation.  Those 12 apparently made it to their destination. They
were luckier than 69 people suspected of being illegal immigrants from Central
and South America.  They boarded Eastern's Flight 80 just 24 hours before, only
to be arrested by agents of the Immigration and Naturalization Service.  Earlier
that same day, 79 others who had taken Flight 80 were picked up when the plane
stopped for refueling in Atlanta.  And on Wednesday, agents arrested 27 aliens
aboard a Piedmont Airlines flight at a morning stop in Charlotte, N.C., between
Phoenix and New York.  Later Wednesday night, immigration agents swept through
six terminals at Los Angeles International Airport and arrested 31 aliens, seven
of them trying to get aboard Eastern Flight 80.  Some of those arrested in the
Eastern raids said they had paid as much as $4,000 for a package deal that
included transportation from home, housing, the plane ticket and a job in New
York. Hernandez, a Salvadoran who says he lives in Orange County, meets illegal
aliens who have crossed the border at Tijuana. He said he escorted them to Los
Angeles International Airport and made sure they board Eastern Flight 80.
''Yes, I'm a smuggler,'' Hernandez told the newspaper.  Hernandez said the
recent attention from immigration agents had caused no alarm.  ''What are they
going to do to me?'' he said. ''Send me home? I could be back in no time.''

LOAD-DATE: October 23, 1993

LANGUAGE: English

GRAPHIC: Photo; AP Photo - Jim Ogden of the Immigration and Naturalization
Service fingerprinting one of 27 illegal aliens who were arrested aboard a
Piedmont Airlines flight Wednesday in Charlotte, N.C.

                  Copyright 1989 St. Louis Post-Dispatch, Inc.


                              184 of 268 DOCUMENTS

                       St. Louis Post-Dispatch (Missouri)

                    March 3, 1989, FRIDAY, FIVE STAR Edition

THE RUSHDIE AFFAIR THREATENS SOCIETY

SECTION: EDITORIAL; Pg. 3F

LENGTH: 814 words


PARIS (REST) The gravest issue posed by the Salman Rushdie affair is that of
cultural collision inside the Western countries. It is a fundamental issue in
the countries with big immigrant minorities radically different from the host
populations in religious or politico-cultural convictions.  Rushdie's problems
began, after all, in Britain, not Iran. Moslems in the city of Bradford, where
one in seven of the population is of Indian or Pakistani origin, organized a
public burning of ''The Satanic Verses'' last January. Without that event,
Ayatollah Ruhollah Khomeini might never have heard of Rushdie's book.  He did
hear of it, and as a result at least 18 people are now dead, and there is an
uproar in a score of countries. These events may have drastically undermined
efforts on behalf of peaceful integration of Islamic immigrants in Western
Europe.  Every political community rests on a general acceptance of certain
beliefs about social and political values. In immigrant countries, that
consensus can be achieved in several ways, all painful for the immigrant group.
The United States, the leading immigrant nation, has, historically, broken down
and assimilated its immigrants by means of a public education system that never
questions the primacy of American political values. Popular culture in America
has also proven an overwhelming assimilative force, as it has elsewhere in the
West. It is America's peculiar good fortune that its immigrants have nearly
always wanted to assimilate. The first generation might cling to ''foreign''
ways, but the second generation has nearly always Americanized itself with a
vengeance. France is the European country that has taken the most immigrants
during the 19th and 20th centuries. Assimilation has been enforced by a state
education system that teaches French civilization and political values without
compromise, starting out by sitting each immigrant child down to learn about
''his'' ancestors, the ancient Gauls.  Not all societies have this confidence in
themselves. Britain has taken a different course, admitting man y
Afro-Caribbeans and Indo-Pakistanis from its former colonies. It has adopted the
goal of a ''multicultural'' society.  There has not been any expressed attempt
to assimilate immigrants to the ideas and attitudes of the British majority.
The same policy is increasingly called for in Australia, Canada, the United
States and the other nations that continue to accept large numbers of
immigrants. The policy is defended as a matter of justice, as well as of respect
for the beliefs and cultural legacies of others.  Yet the fact is that without a
community of values there is no community at all. Do you believe Rushdie has the
right to say and publish whatever is on his mind - that the freedom to do so is
essential to the community in which you wish to live? Or do you believe that
God's truth, as you understand it, should be enforced against false ideas - that
offenders against that truth deserve to die?  You can believe the one or the
other but not both. A coherent political community cannot exist without
agreement on one or the other. That's the problem Rushdie and his book are
forcing people to confront.

LOAD-DATE: October 23, 1993

LANGUAGE: English

                  Copyright 1989 St. Louis Post-Dispatch, Inc.


                              185 of 268 DOCUMENTS

                       St. Louis Post-Dispatch (Missouri)

                   March 9, 1989, THURSDAY, FIVE STAR Edition

RAINING CATS AND DOGS

SECTION: EDITORIAL; Pg. 2B

LENGTH: 347 words


Somehow, I'm not surprised that the United States, which has complex rules
andregulations governing immigrants, aliens and visitors to this country, seems
to have no laws at all about importing stray cats and dogs from other countries.
And it doesn't surprise me that a local woman would spend her vacation rounding
up stray animals from the Caribbean, even though hundreds of abandoned animals
in St. Louis County need food, shelter and care. It doesn't even surprise me
that this woman would admit, for publication, that she bribed a ship's steward
and deliberately violated airline rules to bring the animals back.  What does
surprise me is that the Post-Dispatch would devote 43 column inches of space in
the March 2 paper, including a color picture in the middle of page one, to tell
this bizarre tale - while an adjacent story that described the declining health
of the nation's children received a total of 21.5 column inches of space (and no
photo). The message you sent is clear: Stray cats are more newsworthy than sick
kids. Maybe the next time I won't be surprised, but I will continue to be
disappointed.  Barbara L. Finch Kirkwood

LOAD-DATE: October 23, 1993

LANGUAGE: English

                  Copyright 1989 St. Louis Post-Dispatch, Inc.


                              186 of 268 DOCUMENTS

                       St. Louis Post-Dispatch (Missouri)

                   March 14, 1989, TUESDAY, FIVE STAR Edition

SOUTHEAST ASIAN NATIONS ADOPT TOUGHER 'BOAT PEOPLE' POLICY

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 10A

LENGTH: 454 words


KUALA LUMPUR, Malaysia (AP) - The Association of Southeast Asian Nations
announced Monday that Vietnamese refugees arriving in their countries would no
longer automatically qualify for resettlement.  In other words, those who cannot
prove they are fleeing political persecution will be returned to Vietnam, the
association said. A Malaysian Foreign Ministry statement said the policy would
take effect today ''and will be applied regionwide.'' ASEAN diplomats said the
policy applied only to Vietnamese refugees.  Since Vietnam's ''boat people''
began fleeing their country more a decade ago, all the ASEAN countries -
Malaysia, Indonesia, Thailand, Brunei, Singapore and the Philippines - have
accepted any Vietnamese who arrived as a refugee.  Refugees were given temporary
asylum and placed in camps to await resettlement by the United States,
Australia, Canada, New Zealand and other Western nations.  ASEAN diplomats said
that under the new policy, those arriving would be screened by officials of the
country where they land, with the United Nations High Commissioner for Refugees
providing assistance.  Those found to be fleeing for political reasons or
fleeing persecution will be given refugee status. But if the emigre is found to
have left Vietnam hoping for a better economic life in the West, he or she would
be put into a camp to await repatriation.  The move follows Hong Kong's adoption
of a similar tough new policy under which Vietnamese boat people are considered
illegal immigrants subject to repatriation unless they can prove they fled
persecution. Since the communist victory in Vietnam in 1975, Vietnamese refugees
have sailed by the tens of thousands to seek asylum in non-communist Southeast
Asia.

LOAD-DATE: October 23, 1993

LANGUAGE: English

                  Copyright 1989 St. Louis Post-Dispatch, Inc.


                              187 of 268 DOCUMENTS

                       St. Louis Post-Dispatch (Missouri)

                   March 17, 1989, FRIDAY, FIVE STAR Edition

1 IN 10 IN BANGLADESH APPLY FOR VISAS TO U.S.

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 16A

LENGTH: 160 words


DACCA, Bangladesh - More than 10 million people in Bangladesh - almost a tenthof
the country's population - have applied for immigration visas for the United
States, a post office spokesman said Thursday.  Applications have been pouring
in by tens of thousands every day across the country, and about 20 million
people are expected to have applied by a deadline March 31.  The rush follows
press reports here that the United States would grant about 20,000 immigration
visas in the next two years to citizens of 162 countries through a computerized
postal-lottery system.  1989, Deutsche Presse-Agentur

LOAD-DATE: October 23, 1993

LANGUAGE: English

                  Copyright 1989 St. Louis Post-Dispatch, Inc.


                              188 of 268 DOCUMENTS

                       St. Louis Post-Dispatch (Missouri)

                   March 27, 1989, MONDAY, FIVE STAR Edition

KEEP WELCOME MAT OUT FOR IMMIGRANTS

BYLINE: Clarence Page Column

SECTION: EDITORIAL; Pg. 3B

LENGTH: 880 words


CHICAGO In all the speeches on the day the Statue of Liberty was dedicated in
1886, no one mentioned immigrants. That happy association came later, after Emma
Lazarus' poem (''Give me your tired, your poor, your huddled masses'') was
inscribed on the statue's base in 1903.  The mixed messages associated with the
Statue of Liberty symbolize the mixed feelings this nation always has had about
immigrants. Good neighborliness has little to do with whether our national
welcome mat is out or rolled up.  When the economy is going well, our policy
toward immigrants can best be summed up in two words: ''Y'all come.'' When times
turn lean, it shifts to ''Go away!'' Recent headlines show how, in spite of
reforms, our immigration policy continues to be a tragedy.  Hundreds of Central
American children, some only toddlers, have swept into the Lower Rio Grande
Valley, sent by their parents to make the 1,500-mile journey in a spectacle
reminiscent of London families who sent their own children into the countryside
to escape Nazi bombing in World War II.  Thousands of other refugees have been
herded into Texas detention camps in a scene The Wall Street Journal (hardly a
bunch of knee-jerk liberals, they) editorialized is ''a blight on America's
reputation far worse than drugs or the homeless.'' Now that the Soviets are
loosening their cruel grip on emigration, thousands of persecuted minorities who
would like to come to the United States are stranded in Europe because of U.S.
quotas. The latest big immigration reform measure, the 1986 Immigration Reform
and Control Act, has failed to reverse the flow of illegal immigrants.  Some 3
million to 5 million immigrants who arrived after 1982 have been driven further
underground by the new law's toughened sanctions against employers who hire
undocumented immigrant workers. It is an underground of low-paying, often
dangerous work - when there is work.  The saddest part of this problem is how it
could be solved so easily by opening our doors wider, not shutting them. Those
who call for closing the door argue as if the American economy and way of life
are a pie of limited size that cannot be shared with too many. Labor unions have
been the biggest opponents of immigration, because increases in the supply of
labor reduce pressure to boost wages. Industries love the cheap labor the
continuing stream of immigrants provides and, whether we realize it or not, so
do the rest of us because it holds down prices.  But immigrants historically
increased America's talent pool and helped our pie to grow. There is plenty of
room for more talent today and plenty of need for more growth. In countless
cases, immigrants have taken unwanted jobs and saved businesses that would have
gone overseas.  Unfortunately, no one should expect big reforms soon. But some
shorter-range proposals hold promise. Sens. Edward Kennedy and Robert Kasten
have introduced legislation to allow in some 30,000 additional Soviet emigres
this year, easing the quotas that have kept many in Europe.  Other proposals in
Congress would relax rules that limit immigration to a bout 500,000 people a
year and would create a new category for ''independent immigrants,'' based on
professional skills and education. All of these reforms are overdue.

LOAD-DATE: October 23, 1993

LANGUAGE: English

                  Copyright 1989 St. Louis Post-Dispatch, Inc.


                              189 of 268 DOCUMENTS

                       St. Louis Post-Dispatch (Missouri)

                 April 2, 1989, SUNDAY, LATE FIVE STAR Edition

CONVICTIONS OF SANCTUARY WORKERS UPHELD

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 12A

LENGTH: 747 words


SAN FRANCISCO - In a decision that supporters predicted would drive the
sanctuary movement further underground, a federal appeals court has upheld the
convictions of eight church workers in Arizona for helping Central Americans
enter the United States illegally.  Holding that sanctuary workers are not
shielded from criminal prosecution by their religious beliefs, the 9th U.S.
Circuit Court of Appeals said Thursday that such protections ''cannot escape the
government's overriding interest in policing its borders.'' The 3-0 decision,
reached in the nation's most highly publicized sanctuary case, also held that
sanctuary workers have no right to present evidence of their belief that
immigrants are entitled to legal refugee status because of persecution in their
homelands - a scenario the court said would essentially put the foreign policy
of President Ronald Reagan's administration on trial.  Activists in the movement
predicted that the ruling would pave the way for more criminal prosecutions of
sanctuary workers.  And Immigration and Naturalization Service Regional
Commissioner Harold W.  Ezell said it ''vindicates the government's position
that no one is above the law.'' ''This decision reinforces the government's
position that illegal activity (smuggling) will be and should be prosecuted,''
he said.  A spokesman for the National Center for Immigrants Rights in Los
Angeles, Peter Schey, said the decision probably would encourage more
prosecutions of sanctuary workers throughout the nation and thus is likely to
drive the movement further underground.  ''I think it makes the activities of
all sanctuary workers riskier and more dangerous, . . . (but) I don't believe it
will slow down the sanctuary workers,'' Schey said. ''Their commitment is far
too deep, in my judgment, to be affected by this decision.'' The case involves
the convictions in May 1986 of eight activists from Tucson, Ariz., - including
five members of the clergy - for operating a ''modern-day underground railroad''
that smuggled natives of strife-torn Central American nations across the Mexican
border, sheltered them in churches and dispatched them on to other parts of the
nation.  INS officials have contended that immigrants should apply through
regular channels for asylum in the United States, rather than enter the nation
illegally.  Sanctuary leaders said the government's routine disapproval of
asylum applicants from such countries as El Salvador and Guatamala prevented
them from following normal immigration procedures. They sought to present
evidence at trial - evidence eventually barred by the judge - that the
immigrants' tales of torture and political persecution justified their belief
that they qualified for asylum under U.S. law, even without formal INS
documentation.  Attorneys for the defendants said they would seek a rehearing
before a full, 11-member ''en banc'' panel of the court. None of the defendants
was sentenced to jail terms after their convictions.

LOAD-DATE: October 22, 1993

LANGUAGE: English

                  Copyright 1989 St. Louis Post-Dispatch, Inc.


                              190 of 268 DOCUMENTS

                       St. Louis Post-Dispatch (Missouri)

                  April 12, 1989, WEDNESDAY, FIVE STAR Edition

BRUSH FIRES ENGULF MIAMI IN SMOKE

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 14A

LENGTH: 547 words


MIAMI (AP) - Dense smoke from fires in dried-up areas of the Everglades wetlands
cloaked Miami on Tuesday, cutting visibility, forcing those with breathing
problems to stay indoors and leading to the evacuation of a detention camp for
aliens.  U.S. immigration officials closed their office building because of the
choking fumes. State troopers briefly closed a stretch of U.S. 41, the
southernmost east-west route across Florida. No accidents were reported.  ''From
the window, it looks like the city is in flames,'' said Luis Garcia, a fire
lieutenant for Miami Beach. ''You can't see across the bay (to downtown Miami)
and it's getting worse.'' Brush fires are normal in Florida this time of the
year, but they are more numerous and intense this season because of an unusually
dry winter.  Health alerts were issued because of the choking haze, which
meteorologists said was lessened by sea breeze as the day went on.  ''I came
here for sun and I got smoke - figure that out,'' said Albert Smith, a tourist
from Minneapolis, as he squinted into the haze.  Fires licked to within a mile
of the Immigration and Naturalization Service's Krome Avenue Detention Center on
the edge of the Everglades.  Perry Rivkind, the service's district director,
ordered the 700 aliens at the center moved to Miami's Bobby Maduro Baseball
Stadium.  ''It's very serious; We've got an emergency,'' said Rivkind, who
earlier closed immigration's downtown headquarters. Maduro stadium, spring
training home of the Baltimore Orioles, was recently used as a makeshift home
for Nicaraguan refugees. The smoke from fires 20 to 30 miles away blocked the
sun, and jets were barely visible as they took off from Miami International
Airport.  Tourists expressed puzzlement when they walked outside to find they
could barely see the beach at the Fontainebleau Hilton Hotel.  ''It's kind of
weird,'' said Lisa Cole, a hotel publicist and lifelong resident of Miami.  The
Dade County Health Department and the National Weather Service advised people
with respiratory problems to stay indoors.  The largest fire burned 11,000 acres
west of Florida's Turnpike. The other increased from 2,000 acres on Monday to
5,000 acres Tuesday afternoon, south of Tamiami Trail, touching the fringe of
Everglades National Park.

LOAD-DATE: October 22, 1993

LANGUAGE: English

GRAPHIC: Photo; PHOTO by AP...Forestry workers watching brush fires Tuesday near
the Krome Avenue Detention Center on the edge of the Florida Everglades. The
fires have burned thousands of acres.

                  Copyright 1989 St. Louis Post-Dispatch, Inc.


                              191 of 268 DOCUMENTS

                       St. Louis Post-Dispatch (Missouri)

                   April 24, 1989, MONDAY, FIVE STAR Edition

'AMERICAN DREAM'...REFUGEE FROM '40S HORRORS, IS SMALL BUSINESS PERSON OF YEAR

SECTION: BUSINESS PLUS; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 1707 words


When Mendel Rosenberg immigrated to the United States from war-ravaged Germanyin
1946, he knew nothing of the language, nothing of how to make a living.  But of
survival he knew plenty. He had survived the horrors of the concentration camps,
where 15 other family members perished.  ''Dachau was liberated by the
Americans, and when they liberated Dachau, they liberated me,'' he remembers.
He remembers, too, that those Americans told him the streets of their homeland
were paved with gold.  Rosenberg, now 60, still believes they are. Delsan
Industries Inc. - the Overland business he began more than two decades ago with
seven employees, four walls and no customers - now sells $6 million in windows
and storm doors a year.  The Small Business Administration considers Rosenberg's
story a parable of success. This month he was named Missouri's Small Business
Person of the Year, an honor that puts him in the running for a national award.
Next month, he'll go to Washington, D.C., where the national winner will be
announced. He may even get to meet President George Bush in the Rose Garden.
''Mendel Rosenberg is a Horatio Alger story of current vintage,'' says Bob
Lawson, partner with KPMG Peat Marwick and chairman of the SBA's St. Louis
Advisory Council, which chose Rosenberg for the honor.  ''He is a classic
example of small business success. He came here with $10 in his pocket. There
aren't very many people who have built a successful business of the size of his
beginning with $10,'' he said. Rosenberg made a big reputation for success
though his company, a wholesale sales and manufacturing operation, is small,
competing with industry giants.  Sam Silverstein, Rosenberg's son-in-law and a
vice president of Delsan, says it's akin to running a boutique that competes
with Famous-Barr.  The company employs about 100 people, including Rosenberg's
wife and son.  In a given month, they turn out about 500 storm doors, 2,000
storm windows, and 3,000 replacement windows.  Delsan has managed to thrive
while other ''boutiques'' in his industry have died. But then Delsan is a lot
like Rosenberg himself: a survivor.  Rosenberg is one of two sons of a clothing
manufacturer. Only he and his mother survived the Holocaust. ''We used to steal
and lie just for survival,'' Rosenberg recalls. ''And the penalty for being
caught was death.'' The two survivors made their way to Youngstown, Ohio, where
Rosenberg's two cousins lived. The cousins' next-door neighbor was in the
business of making windows.  Rosenberg, who at the time spoke six languages but
not English, nonetheless talked his way into a job with the neighbor. He began
nailing wooden window frames together.  He stayed with the company for two
decades, but wasn't in an entry-level position for long. ''I always wanted to do
a little bit better than the average person,'' he said. ''It was meant to be for
me to survive.'' He worked days, took English classes and high school courses
nights, and got a diploma midway through a two-year stint in the Army during the
Korean War. He became a private first class before he became a citizen.  In 1957
Benada Aluminum, the window manufacturing company he had worked for since his
arrival in the states, sent him to St. Louis. Here he met Sandy, his wife of 32
years.  In 1967 Benada fired him, so he started his own business. He became the
entrepreneur. Sandy Rosenberg became the bookkeeper. And the company became
known as Delsan - ''Del'' taken from Mendel, ''san'' from Sandy.  Four years
passed before they could pay more than their mortgage and grocery bills, and
there was a time when he gladly would have turned the company over to someone
else just to pay off his loans.  ''Many weeks we didn't deposit our paychecks
because we didn't have the money to clear them,'' he said.  That time is long
gone.  When the Small Business Administration selects its top business person,
it's looking for someone with a successful track record. It wants a business
with staying power, growth in sales and an increase in the number of employees,
says LaVerne Johnson, public affairs assistant for the St. Louis district
office.  It found what it was looking for in Delsan. The company has expanded
from a plant of 13,000 square feet to one of 67,500. The seven original
employees have multiplied to about 100. The company is privately owned by
Rosenberg, but he readily says that its annual gross revenues have grown from
$139,000 to more than $6 million.  Now, he is the one helping other businesses
through the rough times, by finding ways to help them stretch out payments.
''He epitomizes, he breathes, he is small business, in every sense of the
word,'' says Sheelah R. Yawitz, president of the Missouri Merchants &
Manufacturers Association and the person who nominated Rosenberg for the award.
''I describe him as the American dream. He has all the right ingredients,'' she
said.  Though his company is small, Rosenberg considers it a leader in its
field, among the first in the area to produce vinyl window frames and windows
that sandwich gas between two panes to better insulate homes and offices.  More
than 1,100 examples of Delsan's work are on display on the restored Chemical
Building at 721 Olive Street in downtown St. Louis. For the project, Delsan
created windows that would preserve the original look of the building and, at
the same time, help keep heating and cooling costs down.  Delsan pays attention
to small projects, too. Once, Rosenberg donated windows to help rebuild a local
family's uninsured home that had been destroyed by fire.  Nearly six years ago,
Stuart Rosenberg, now 28, took the office next door to his father. He has a
bachelor's degree in business administration, but he says he learned more about
business from his father.  ''I always said to myself if I could be half the man
he is in business, I'd be happy,'' he said. ''I'm proud of him.'' Though
business changes, much about Delsan does not. Sandy Rosenberg still works across
the hall from her husband, and Pat Shafer, the secretary who was with Rosenberg
before he started his own business, is still just outside his office door.
Silverstein says his father-in-law remains a direct businessman, someone who is
likely to walk into the room saying to his potential customers, ''Let's just get
going. Let's start doing business.'' Delsan Industries Inc.  Business:
Manufacturer of vinyl and aluminum replacement windows, storm windows and doors.
Founded: 1967 Founder and Owner: Mendel Rosenberg Tips For Success: Try to offer
something as a small business that big business do not have, such as focusing on
higher quality, rather than on lower prices. Give your customers first-rate
treatment. Know your business. The better you know the business, the better your
chance for success. Be at the right place at the right time.

LOAD-DATE: October 22, 1993

LANGUAGE: English

GRAPHIC: Photo; PHOTO By Ted Dargan/Post-Dispatch...Mendel Rosenberg in the
showroom of his manufacturing plant on Lotsie Boulevard in Overland.

                  Copyright 1989 St. Louis Post-Dispatch, Inc.


                              192 of 268 DOCUMENTS

                       St. Louis Post-Dispatch (Missouri)

                  April 26, 1989, WEDNESDAY, FIVE STAR Edition

SOVIETS DEFECT BEFORE SIGNING OF ACCORD

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 8A

LENGTH: 147 words


NOME, Alaska (AP) - Two Soviets defected just before government officials signed
a protocol aimed at easing travel restrictions between Alaska and Siberia, the
U.S. Immigration and Naturalization Service says. Just hours before the signing
ceremony Sunday, the Soviets approached an Alaska National Guard Eskimo Scout
and asked for political asylum, the Immigration Service said in a brief news
release Monday.  The scout notified his commander, who notified the Immigration
Service in Nome. The Immigration Service permitted the Soviets to stay on Little
Diomede Island, and they spent the night in the National Guard Armory there.

LOAD-DATE: October 22, 1993

LANGUAGE: English

                  Copyright 1989 St. Louis Post-Dispatch, Inc.


                              193 of 268 DOCUMENTS

                       St. Louis Post-Dispatch (Missouri)

                    May 15, 1989, MONDAY, THREE STAR Edition

THE WRONG MAN FOR THE JOB

SECTION: EDITORIAL; Pg. 2B

LENGTH: 800 words


Those familiar with the job of commissioner of the Immigration and
Naturalization Service - the federal job to which St. Louis County Executive
Gene McNary apparently is headed - say it requires both firmness and
sensitivity. His experience as a prosecutor and as an often forceful county
executive speak to Mr. McNary's firmness - though not always on the right
issues. But his background shows little sensitivity to the kinds of people and
issues involved in immigration. Mr. McNary may be suited for any number of jobs
in the Bush administration; the immigration job isn't one of them.  His lack of
experience with immigration issues wouldn't necessarily disqualify him,
particularly based on the experience of the past several years, when the INS
commissioner has been a political supporter of the president. But immigration
problems during those periods were not as volatile as they promise to be in the
Bush years.  Riots prompted by the arrival of refugees broke out last year in
Miami, and more refugees from Central America are currently in tent cities in
south Texas, held up by INS regulations. The number of people seeking asylum
from that troubled region is sure to increase. Jewish emigration from the Soviet
Union might also increase as policies there are liberalized; the United States
must develop a humane response.  The Immigration Reform and Control Act, which
let illegal aliens win amnesty under certain conditions, has also placed a
strain on the INS. The amnesty period is over, but thousands of aliens unable to
submit proper documentation are living in what one advocate called ''a fearful
underground and impoverished existence'' - one that the INS can help alleviate.
Amid this turmoil, the agency itself has been accused of poor management and
sloppy handling of funds. Outgoing Commissioner Alan C. Nelson has described the
position as a no-win job.  Is Gene McNary the right person for such a job?
Besides a lack of experience in immigration, he hasn't shown much sympathy
toward minorities. In the late 1970s, he waged a harsh campaign against the
Department of Housing and Urban Development over subsidized housing in St. Louis
County. After his actions threatened to keep nearly $9 million in federal funds
from the county, he finally agreed that such housing would be acceptable in
Earth City - not a choice site for low-income families. Nor have his budgets
shown much of a commitment to programs for the poor, such as health services,
social services and housing.  In his 1980 race for the U.S. Senate against
incumbent Thomas Eagleton, Mr.  McNary supported a constitutional amendment to
stop school busing for integration.  This is not a record that shows the
sensitivity to minorities required for a successful head of immigration. Earlier
suggestions that Mr. McNary might be named to a transportation position in
Washington made sense. But immigration is too touchy to leave to someone with
neither the experience nor the sympathies for it. If George Bush wants to offer
Gene McNary a job in Washington, he should keep looking until he comes up with a
more appropriate one.

LOAD-DATE: October 22, 1993

LANGUAGE: English

                  Copyright 1989 St. Louis Post-Dispatch, Inc.


                              194 of 268 DOCUMENTS

                       St. Louis Post-Dispatch (Missouri)

                    May 19, 1989, FRIDAY, FIVE STAR Edition

30-DAY VISAS ALLOWED FOR ALIENS WITH AIDS

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 18A

LENGTH: 214 words


WASHINGTON (AP) - Foreigners with AIDS will be allowed to seek 30-day visas
toenter this country on business, attend conferences or visit relatives, the
Justice Department said Thursday.  New regulations to be issued by the
Immigration and Naturalization Service allowing such travel were drafted
following last month's dispute over the detention of a Dutch AIDS patient en
route to a conference in San Francisco on the disease, said departmental
spokesman David Runkel. Runkel said people with AIDS (acquired immune deficiency
syndrome) would be barred from getting tourist visas but would be allowed to
enter the country for 30-day periods to attend conferences, get medical
treatment, visit relatives or conduct business.  The regulations were drafted
after a federal immigration judge ruled last month that the agency should allow
the Dutch AIDS patient to attend the conference.

LOAD-DATE: October 22, 1993

LANGUAGE: English

                  Copyright 1989 St. Louis Post-Dispatch, Inc.


                              195 of 268 DOCUMENTS

                       St. Louis Post-Dispatch (Missouri)

                    May 28, 1989, SUNDAY, THREE STAR Edition

PLAN COULD HALVE THE NUMBER OF SOVIET JEWS ACCEPTED BY U.S.

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 11C

LENGTH: 720 words


WASHINGTON (AP) - President George Bush's administration is considering a policy
change that could halve the admissions of Soviet refugees to the United States,
an official of a Jewish organization said.  The limitation proposed is one of
several options under review in an attempt to cope with an unprecedented flow of
Soviets, most of them Jews, being permitted to leave under the policies of
glasnost, or openness, of Soviet leader Mikhail S. Gorbachev.  If implemented,
the new policy could be a boon for Israel, which accepts every Soviet Jew who
can get out. In recent years, about 90 percent of Soviet Jews have opted to go
to the United States rather than Israel, David Harris of the American Jewish
Committee said Friday.  Facing a slump in Jewish immigration and a surge in the
birthrate among its Arab minority, Israel has been pushing for years to get more
Soviet Jews.  The State Department had no immediate comment, saying only that
various options were under review for dealing with the influx of Soviet emigres.
Jewish groups and the Justice Department estimate that as many as 75,000 Soviets
will be granted exit visas this year, about 55,000 of them Jews and the rest
Pentecostalists and Armenians.  About 18,000 Soviets have left the Soviet Union
so far this year, and 26,000 more applicants are waiting to be interviewed at
the U.S. Embassy.  The vast majority of Soviet emigres are awarded refugee
status by the United States, which means their way to the United States and
their resettlement is paid by the government. Next year, the numbers are
expected to increase even more, presenting the budget-strapped administration
with a severe problem.  Bush's administration has only budgeted for about 22,500
Soviet refugees for fiscal 1989. It has asked Congress to fund an additional
22,500 Soviet refugees this fiscal year. The White House has also asked for an
emergency allocation of $100 million to deal with the influx.  In addition,
Attorney General Dick Thornburgh has proposed legislation that would allow
30,000 admissions of Soviets annually, although not as refugees.  Other
categories of admissions, such as immigrants, are ineligible for full federal
funding.  Under the change proposed, Soviet applicants would no longer be
eligible for refugee status unless they have relatives in the United States or a
close affiliation with the United States through education or other ties, said
Harris, whose organization lobbies for Soviet Jews.  Existing policy allows
admission of Soviets as refugees under a category of ''national interest,'' in
other words because U.S. foreign policy interests seek to encourage the Kremlin
to allow freer emigration.  Removing Soviets from that eligibility would bring
their treatment in line with that of other refugee groups, like Hispanics and
Asians, Harris said.  An attempt to curb the number of Soviet refugees through a
policy directive from former Attorney General Edwin Meese last summer failed
when U.S.  lawmakers and Jewish groups protested.

LOAD-DATE: October 22, 1993

LANGUAGE: English

                  Copyright 1989 St. Louis Post-Dispatch, Inc.


                              196 of 268 DOCUMENTS

                       St. Louis Post-Dispatch (Missouri)

                   June 11, 1989, SUNDAY, THREE STAR Edition

BILL WOULD LOOSEN RULES ON IMMIGRANTS

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 9A

LENGTH: 614 words


WASHINGTON - The Senate Judiciary Committee has approved an immigration b ill
that would make it easier for skilled, educated immigrants and those with
relatives in America to enter the United States.  Sen. Edward M. Kennedy,
D-Mass, a co-author of the bill, said the measure would reopen immigration from
European countries closed out in recent years because the family ties of people
there to American citizens were becoming too distant.  The legislation would
allow up to 54,000 persons to enter under a new category for skilled, educated
workers who could apply for visas under a point system based on education,
skills and age. The bill also tightens the rules for 54,000 allowed to enter
currently as professionals.  But the committee rejected a plan to give
English-speaking applicants in this professional category an advantage over
those who did not speak English.  Sen. Patrick J. Leahy, D-Vt., said, ''My
mother, my wife, my grandparents were all non-English speaking, at least
initially.  Sen. Paul Simon, D-Ill., offered the amendment to delete the
English-speaking advantage. He explained, ''We've never done this before in our
history. Some of our parents, our ancestors, could not have emigrated if there
had been points for English.'' Now most immigrants come from Asia, the
Caribbean, Mexico and Central America, and only 10 percent come from Europe.
About 90 percent of immigration is family-related.  The bill would continue to
give preference to immigration applications from spouses, children and brothers
and sisters of American citizens and residents. The committee agreed to limit
legal immigration to 600,000 a year for three years, 110,000 more than the
current yearly level. Of this amount, 480,000 would be reserved for family
immigration.  The bill ''will increase immigration opportunities from the 'old
seed' traditional sources such as the European countries, without reducing
opportunities for immigrants from newer sources such as Latin America and
Asia,'' Kennedy said in a statement.  Massachusetts has a large immigrant Irish
population, and Kennedy has been under pressure to ease the way for more
European immigration.  The bill is expected to be hotly debated in the full
Senate. The outlook in the House is uncertain. The House did not consider a
similar Senate bill last year.

LOAD-DATE: October 22, 1993

LANGUAGE: English

GRAPHIC: Photo; AP Photo - Racing The Wind Mary Radsell of Lawrenceville, Ga.,
losing her hat as she gallops her horse near sunset last week.

                  Copyright 1989 St. Louis Post-Dispatch, Inc.


                              197 of 268 DOCUMENTS

                       St. Louis Post-Dispatch (Missouri)

                   June 27, 1989, TUESDAY, FIVE STAR Edition

RESIGNATION OPENS DOOR FOR MCNARY

BYLINE: Karen L. Koman Of the Post-Dispatch Staff

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 6A

LENGTH: 667 words


WASHINGTON - The U.S. Justice Department accepted on Monday the resignation
ofAlan C. Nelson, commissioner of the Immigration and Naturalization Service.
The action may pave the way for the White House to nominate St. Louis County
Executive Gene McNary as his replacement.  James L. Buck, the deputy
commissioner, will be acting commissioner until a replacement for Nelson is
chosen, Attorney General Dick Thornburgh said Monday. Nelson was appointed by
President Ronald Reagan. He submitted a letter of resignation to President
George Bush but has made no secret of his desire to keep the job.  David Runkel,
a spokesman for the Justice Department, said he could not comment on why
Nelson's resignation was accepted before a successor was named.  Gene McNary,
the top elected official in St. Louis County, ''remains the leading candidate''
to head the immigration service, Runkel said.  Some immigration experts view
Nelson's departure as an opportunity for the administration to assert itself in
a crucial policy area and to improve the agency's image. But Nelson defended his
record as ''firm and fair.'' Nelson, known as a stubborn, proud man, waged a
vigorous lobbying campaign, which included a self-promotional film, to keep his
job. He disputed reports that he would be replaced - reports that included
confirmation by Department of Justice officials.  ''Al has been an increasing
embarrassment,'' a Department of Justice official said Monday. ''I'm surprised
it took this long. He was beginning to make (administration officials look
impotent.'' Nelson has had a frosty relationship with the Justice Department in
recent months after a critical audit of the immigration service. Bush's
administration made no secret of the fact that it wanted Nelson out.  Pam Grant,
McNary's spokeswoman, declined to comment on Nelson's resignation. McNary's
office is awaiting a formal nomination; when that might come is unknown, Grant
said.  Two weeks ago, McNary had said his nomination by the White House could
come at any time.  Nelson's supporters acknowledged in recent weeks that the
chance of his staying on was slim, and they had all but stopped any lobbying
efforts on his behalf.  N An audit ordered by Thornburgh this year was critical
of the accounting, management and administrative practices at the immigration
service. The audit also cited backlogs in cases awaiting decisions and the loss
by a regional office of 23,000 citizenship certificates.  The Associated Press
contributed information for this story.

LOAD-DATE: October 22, 1993

LANGUAGE: English

GRAPHIC: Photo; PHOTO HEADSHOT...Alan C. Nelson...Head of immigration service.

                  Copyright 1989 St. Louis Post-Dispatch, Inc.


                              198 of 268 DOCUMENTS

                       St. Louis Post-Dispatch (Missouri)

                    June 30, 1989, FRIDAY, FIVE STAR Edition

150 NEW CITIZENS TO TAKE OATH JULY 3

SECTION: EVERYDAY MAGAZINE; Pg. 10

LENGTH: 187 words


About 150 immigrants are expected to become United States citizens during a
ceremony at 11 a.m. Monday, July 3, on the Riverfront Overlook at the Arch. The
immigrants, all Missouri residents, will begin filling out citizenship papers at
8:15 a.m. in the Federal Courthouse. After the paperwork is completed, they will
move down to the riverfront for a ceremony conducted by a U.S. District Court
judge.  The immigrants will renounce the citizenship of their native countries
and then the judge will administer the oath of citizenship for the United
States, said Chester Moyer, director of the Immigration and Naturalization
office in St. Louis.

LOAD-DATE: October 22, 1993

LANGUAGE: English

                  Copyright 1989 St. Louis Post-Dispatch, Inc.


                              199 of 268 DOCUMENTS

                       St. Louis Post-Dispatch (Missouri)

                    July 2, 1989, SUNDAY, THREE STAR Edition

IMMIGRATION FROM HONG KONG IS REJECTED

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 10D

LENGTH: 654 words


LONDON (AP) - An influential House of Commons committee has rejected calls to
allow 3.5 million British passport holders in Hong Kong to immigrate to Britain.
The committee recommended an international effort to accommodate them in the
event of a crisis.  The Foreign Affairs Select Committee report also recommended
the speedy introduction of full democracy in Hong Kong so it would be in place
before China takes over the colony in 1997.  Hong Kong legislators greeted the
report with outrage and said the committee's statement on the immigration issue
would probably go down as ''one of the most dishonorable statements ever made
about Hong Kong.'' The report was started before China ordered the army to crush
the pro-democracy movement in Beijing June 3-4. But the fears the crackdown
raised in Hong Kong were at the heart of many of the committee's
recommendations.  Britain's Foreign Affairs Select Committee said it was
unrealistic to expect the influx of 3.5 million people to be accommodated in
Britain.  But it recommended that thousands be allowed to immigrate, especially
those holding key and sensitive positions in Hong Kong.  ''We believe the
accommodation of even several million people from Hong Kong would be quite
possible if shared amongst the international community,'' it said.  The
committee rejected the contention of Foreign Secretary Geoffrey Howe that other
countries would not now make a commitment to take Hong Kong residents in case of
a future crisis.  The committee urged Britain to ''take the lead at the earliest
opportunity'' - particularly with the European Community, Australia, Canada and
the United States - ''in establishing the definite guarantees, which could be
put into place in the years ahead.'' The committee also said Hong Kong residents
must be allowed to decide on their own system of government both before and
after 1997 and urged the introduction of full democracy ''as soon as possible.''
The panel recommended that direct elections for Hong Kong's entire Legislative
Council be held in 1995 and that 50 percent of the council be directly elected
in 1990 as a first stage. Hong Kong's first chief executive should be elected by
an electoral college six months before the transfer of sovereignty to China, it
said.  The report also called on Britain to make clear to China the strength of
Hong Kong's opposition to any stationing of People's Liberation Army soldiers in
the colony after 1997.

LOAD-DATE: October 25, 1993

LANGUAGE: English

                  Copyright 1989 St. Louis Post-Dispatch, Inc.


                              200 of 268 DOCUMENTS

                       St. Louis Post-Dispatch (Missouri)

                   July 5, 1989, WEDNESDAY, FIVE STAR Edition

EMIGRE RETURNS AFTER 58 YEARS

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 6F

LENGTH: 934 words


CHICAGO - Independence Day lived up to its name for Abe Stolar, who made an
emotional return visit to his hometown for the first time since his family
immigrated to the Soviet Union nearly 60 years ago.  Embracing an American flag
and wearing an ''I Love Chicago'' button, Stolar was visibly moved as 200 people
crowded the gate at O'Hare International Airport on Tuesday night and applauded
as he and his wife, Gita, walked off a plane. They were the last passengers to
disembark.  ''It has finally happened,'' said Stolar, 77, while hugging Sen.
Paul Simon, D-Ill., who worked for his release.  ''I am overwhelmed, I finally
get to see you again,'' he said to Simon, who visited Stolar in the Soviet Union
10 years ago. ''I cannot find words.  It has been a long time. I tried very hard
to get here.'' Stolar was traveling from Israel, where he immigrated earlier
this year after a long fight to leave the Soviet Union.  He said he had longed
to return to the city he and his family left for the Soviet Union when he was a
teen-ager, but he feared it might never happen.  ''I was an alien there for all
the 58 years I was there,'' he said. ''It was a crime they didn't let me out.''
Stolar moved to the Soviet Union during the Depression when his Russian-born
father returned to his home country.  Speaking with a classic Chicago accent,
Stolar thanked Simon and representatives of news organizations for their work to
free his family. ''I would still be stuck in Moscow if it were not for you,''
Stolar said to reporters. ''Thank you. This is way too much, I don't deserve
this attention.'' Stolar's father, a communist, fled the persecutions of czarist
Russia in 1909 and settled in Chicago the following year. He worked as a
printer, but when the Depression struck, he moved his family back to Russia.  In
the Stalinist purges of the 1930s, Stolar's father was killed.  ''They arrested
my father one night in 1937,'' Stolar said in an interview in 1975 with the
Chicago Tribune. ''They just took him away for no reason, and of course, we
never heard from him again.'' Stolar said he had avoided arrest, although both
his sister and brother were taken and never heard from again. He first worked as
a poster artist, fought and was wounded in World War II, then worked as a
translator for Radio Moscow for 20 years. He retired in the early 1970s.  When
other Soviet Jews began getting permission in 1971 to immigrate to Israel,
Stolar decided to apply. His family's departure was approved, and they sold
their belongings.  On the day they were to leave for Israel, the family members
nearly had reached their plane when officials pulled them back, maintaining that
his wife, a chemist, was privy to state secrets. They were told they could not
leave for two years.  Stolar and his son, Michael, hold U.S. citizenship, while
his wife has an Israeli passport. Julia Stolar, Michael's wife, is a Soviet
citizen.  A diplomatic struggle began when President Ronald Reagan and Simon
lent their assistance to winning Stolar's release from the Soviet Union.  In
1985, Reagan took part in his first summit meeting with Gorbachev and also met
with Stolar. The case was again brought up at a later summit meeting, in Geneva.
The Soviets granted permission for the Stolars to leave, but they refused to
allow Julia Stolar and her newborn daughter to go because she was not married in
a civil ceremony; the Soviets do not recognize religious weddings.  Stolar said
he believed the case finally was solved through the summit meetings, although
the visas were not issued until last December.  Finally, in March, the family
was allowed to leave for Israel.  The Stolars' luggage arrived in Tel Aviv 15
years before they did, and they have yet to open the boxes, which are stored in
a warehouse.  ''We decided to come here first,'' Stolar said. When asked if he
would rather move to Chicago, he replied, ''I wouldn't be surprised if I decided
to move back here.''

LOAD-DATE: October 25, 1993

LANGUAGE: English

GRAPHIC: Photo; PHOTO by AP...Abe Stolar hugging his wife, Gita Rozovskaya,
Tuesday after they arrived in Chicago.

                  Copyright 1989 St. Louis Post-Dispatch, Inc.


                              201 of 268 DOCUMENTS

                       St. Louis Post-Dispatch (Missouri)

                    July 14, 1989, FRIDAY, FIVE STAR Edition

SENATORS PUSH BILL ON ALIENS

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 14C

LENGTH: 694 words


WASHINTON (AP) -- The Senate moved slowly forward Thursday with plans to
overhaul the immigration system, defeating a proposal to give extra credit in
the competition for visas to those who speak English.  ''By all means, make
classes available so they can learn English, but do not exclude people because
they do not speak English,'' Sen. Paul Simon, D-Ill., said before the Senate
rejected the plan, 56-43, after an emotionally charged debate.  The bill would
place an annual cap of 600,000 on immigration in each of the next three years,
the first such limit in decades. That represents 106,000 more visas than were
issued in 1988, but critics say the measure ultimately would exclude all but the
closest relatives of American citizens and permanent residents of the United
States.  The Senate approved a similar bill in 1988, but it died in the House.
Sponsors are expressing optimism about their chances there this year.  The
measure is not related to the problem of illegal immigration.  Critics scored a
victory Wednesday when the Senate attached an amendment guaranteeing a minimum
number of visas to extended family members of those who already are American
citizens. More reshaping was expected as lawmakers worked their way through
numerous amendments.  As it emerged from the Senate Judiciary Committee, the
bill would have reserved 480,000 visas for all types of family immigration and
120,000 for those entering on a basis other than family ties.  That category
includes 54,000 visas subject to a point system giving credit for those who have
special skills needed by American industry but who do not have employers ready
to sponsor them. The Senate Judiciary Committee voted 12-2 to delete the
provision that would provide a major advantage under the point system to
individuals who speak English. But its sponsor, Sen. Alan K. Simpson, R-Wyo.,
appealed on the floor for a reversal that would restore extra credit for English
speakers.  He urged lawmakers not to be swayed by sentimental appeals that
portray immigrants as the heart and soul of the American dream even though they
speak no English. ''The heart and soul disappears when you can't get work,'' he
said.  ''English is the language of success,'' he said.  But Simon quoted a news
clipping that said 13 of the 16 valedictorians in Boston this year were born in
foreign countries and the majority apparently did not have English for a mother
tongue.  Simon read a list of ethnic-sounding senators' names and reminded them
that their own relatives had arrived in America without knowing English.
Simpson expressed frustration that the sentiment-tinged debate appeared to be
going against him.  ''You have snorted and ripped and rolled around in it and
just given birth to a mouse,'' he said.

LOAD-DATE: October 25, 1993

LANGUAGE: English

GRAPHIC: Photo; PHOTO...Sam Leone/Post-Dispatch...Walls Tumbling Down...The
walls at the Stag Brewery in Belleville tumbling down Thursday as M.J.R.
Properties of Illinois began demolition. M.J.R., a subsidiary of Roberts
Construction of St. Louis, is stripping the brewery and selling assets,
including the beer storage tanks, to other breweries and industries. Tom
Roberts, manager of M.J.R., said several of the buildings at the brewery will be
leveled. M.J.R. plans to convert the remaining structures for use as warehouse
space. Roberts said the project will take from six to nine months. The G.
Heileman Brewing Co. Inc. closed the historic brewery last year.

                  Copyright 1989 St. Louis Post-Dispatch, Inc.


                              202 of 268 DOCUMENTS

                       St. Louis Post-Dispatch (Missouri)

                  July 15, 1989, SATURDAY, THREE STAR Edition

APPROVAL SEEN FOR LIMIT ON IMMIGRATION

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 11A

LENGTH: 294 words


WASHINGTON (AP) - Senate sponsors of an overhaul of the nation's immigration
system, including a cap of 630,000 immigrants each year, are predicting a strong
chance of approval in the House.  Sen. Edward M. Kennedy, D-Mass., said Thursday
after the Senate approved the measure, 81-17, and sent it to the House, ''I'm
very hopeful that we'll get legislation. It's early in the session.'' The bill
originally was designed to limit immigration to 600,000 people in each of the
next three years but was expanded by 30,000 annually before final passage. The
ceiling would be 136,000 more visas than were issued last year.  The House
killed a similar measure in 1988, but sponsors are more hopeful about their
chances this year.  Kennedy and co-sponsor Sen. Alan K. Simpson, R-Wyo., said
they had already received encouragement from House leaders. ''We've never given
them anything like this this early,'' Simpson said.  He praised provisions that
reserved 120,000 of the annual visas for individuals who do not have family ties
in America but who would be likely to make important contributions in business,
science or other areas.

LOAD-DATE: October 25, 1993

LANGUAGE: English

                  Copyright 1989 St. Louis Post-Dispatch, Inc.


                              203 of 268 DOCUMENTS

                       St. Louis Post-Dispatch (Missouri)

                    July 24, 1989, MONDAY, FIVE STAR Edition

'ASIATOWN' EMERGES ON SOUTH SIDE

BYLINE: Judith VandeWater Of the Post-Dispatch Staff

SECTION: BUSINESS PLUS; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1960 words


When Jay Prapaisilp opened his tiny corner store at 3232 South Grand Boulevardin
1975, the Asian population in south St. Louis was small. Business was so slow at
the Jay Asia Food Co. that Prapaisilp paid his younger brother, Sucsin, in food
and the younger Prapaisilp worked two other jobs for income.  Four blocks north
of Jay Asia, Annie Leong's store, Asia Food Products, catered to the Chinese
community that her family had been serving since 1938.  Leong's parents ran a
restaurant and store in the 700 block of Market in what used to be the center of
Chinatown and what is now the site of the General American Life Insurance Co.
building.  Chinatown was leveled in 1965, and the Leongs moved the store to 1509
Delmar before moving to 3604 South Grand Avenue in 1979. Now, a decade later,
the business Annie Leong inherited from her parents is again near the center of
an emerging Asiatown.  In the past two years, a number of small restaurants and
shops owned and operated by immigrants and refugees from Southeast Asia have
opened along an L-shaped strip of South Grand and Chippewa.  The groundwork for
the evolving business district was laid in the early 1980's when the
International Institute of Metro St. Louis, a social services agency that aids
immigrants and refugees, decided to move out of its cramped quarters in the
Central West End into the near South Side.  In addition to offering English
classes and helping immigrants find jobs, the institute helps its clients find
housing. ''Logic would have it that you would find housing close to where the
services would be,'' said Anna Peterson Crosslin, executive director and
president of the institute. ''We settled our refugee population around us.'' The
institute started resettling refugees in the South Side in 1981 in anticipation
of its move to 3800 Park Avenue early the following year. At that time the
institute was sponsoring 500 to 600 refugees a year. Almost all its clients were
Indochinese and most were Vietnamese boat people.  Peterson said that the
institute found housing for the new arrivals in a quadrant loosely defined by
Chouteau to the north, Chippewa to the south, Tower Grove to the west and the
Mississippi River to the east.  The number of new refugees com ing to St. Louis
under the institute's sponsorship has decreased significantly and become more
diverse in the past five or six years, but Crosslin estimates that almost 2,000
Vietnamese refugees, or about 90 percent of the Vietnamese population in the
city of St.  Louis still live within that quadrant.  Jay Asia's business
naturally grew along with the Asian and refugee population in the area. ''As the
refugees arrived, Jay Asia was the obvious place to go to buy the items they
needed,'' Crosslin said. ''He built up quite a clientele from the whole thing,''
Crosslin said of Prapaisilp.  While Jay Prapaisilp was attending to his food
store, Sucsin Prapaisilp opened the The King And I, a Thai restaurant at 3226
South Grand. Then, a few years ago, Sucsin Prapaisilp bought the store from his
brother. Last year he moved the food store into a much larger building at 3604
South Grand and expanded the inventory to offer foods from India, Malaysia,
Indonesia, Lebanon, Iran, Iraq, Cuba and Mexico.  Prapaisilp estimates that
about 80 percent of his customers are oriental.  ''Americans come in looking for
seaweed and sweet and sour sauce,'' said Prapaisilp. Orientals come in looking
for giant squid and rattan shoots.  Jay Asia's inventory which once consisted of
little more than rice and fish sauce, now includes whole frozen frogs, pickled
mud fish, fresh litchi and hundreds of other hard-to-find items that help make
immigrants feel at home.  Like her husband, Sudawadee Prapaisilp is a Thai
immigrant. She understands a few words spoken by the Laotians who frequent the
store. She employs sign language with the store's Spanish speaking clientele.
And she carries a small notebook that serves as a homemade dictionary of
Vietnamese and Cambodian foods. Sometimes her customers bring her an empty can
to ask her to stock the product because Jay Asia's prices its products below the
imported merchandise offered by large chains, she said.  ''We are not making
much money, but we have enough to pay the employees and the rent and the
utilities,'' she said. ''The oriental way is to save up money a little at a
time.'' Crosslin said that Asian refugees that have saved enough money to start
their own businesses are naturally looking to South Grand and Cherokee because
of the concentration of Asians in the neighborhood. ''They had a built-in
constituency. Every year it seems like there are one or two more Asian stores
that open,'' she said.  The Pho Grand Restaurant at 3191 South Grand is one of
the newest of the refugee businesses. Hang ''Tammy'' Nguyen, who owns the
restaurant in partnership with her husband, My Trinh, claims to operate the
first authentic Vietnamese restaurant in St. Louis.  Other St. Louis area
restaurants owned by Vietnamese refugees, including the Hunan Cafe and the
Webster Garden, which are owned by Nguyen's family, offer a predominantly
Chinese menu.  Nguyen, whose family left Vietnam in 1975 and arrived in the
United States with no money and no clothes, said that her family discouraged her
from opening a Vietnamese restaurant. They feared Americans had no taste for
traditional Vietnamese food.  ''When we first opened in March, a lot of
Vietnamese said 'I don't think you will make.' '' They thought Americans would
associate the menu with the Vietnam War, Nguyen said. So far the Pho Grand has
proved the doomsayers wrong.  ''We've been doing very well,'' said Nguyen. ''My
husband aims for Vietnamese customers. I told him I want to aim to Americans.''
Less than a mile away, at 3104 Cherokee, Lien Tran sells the hand-embroidered
cloth used to make traditional Vietnamese dresses. The Far East Oriental Gift
Shop also sells Vietnamese books, tapes, compact discs and a wide selection of
videos of Chinese movies, dubbed in Vietnamese. Her shop, which opened in
October, also sells knickknacks and some clothing.  Tran, who taught high school
in Vietnam, has a basement full of clothing and household essentials that she
gives away to newly arrived immigrants.  ''They can get some clothing or
something to start a life here - some chop sticks, a bowl or used furniture.
Some people need it,'' Tran said.  Sales are slow in the shop upstairs, in part
because Tran is advertising only to the Vietnamese community.  Tran estimates
the Vietnamese community in St. Louis is about 3,000 or 4,000 strong. Although
this is significantly higher than the institute's estimate, Tran has concluded
that it is insufficient to be the sole support of a good business.  ''In Chicago
they have 15,000 to 20,000 Vietnamese people, they make a good business there,''
she said.  Tran believes that business will build slowly. She does not expect to
make a profit for two years. ''You can get rich easier running a restaurant. I
don't have enough health to do that,'' she said.  Most Vietnamese work during
the week and shop on the weekends. During the slow times, Tran studies for a
real estate license. All of her money is sunk into the shop. She borrowed $4,000
from a friend to buy the videos.  ''My people, when t hey open businesses,
usually borrow money from relatives and friends. Friends or relatives don't
charge interest, they just want to help,'' Tran said.  Crosslin said that in
many Vietnamese family businesses, the owners and their relatives take out only
what they need to support their families.  ''They don't haul down salaries in
the traditional sense. They put the money back into the business.''

LOAD-DATE: October 25, 1993

LANGUAGE: English

GRAPHIC: Photo Map; PHOTO (COLOR) by Robert LaRouche/Post-Dispatch...Sudawadee
Prapaislip, left, looks over Vietnamese greens at her Jay Asia store that where
grown for sale at the store by the mother of Kim Kran, Left, holding her son
Andrew. MAP by Post-Dispatch...Showing area where Indochinese have settled.

                  Copyright 1989 St. Louis Post-Dispatch, Inc.


                              204 of 268 DOCUMENTS

                       St. Louis Post-Dispatch (Missouri)

                   July 29, 1989, SATURDAY, FIVE STAR Edition

PETITIONS OPPOSE MCNARY'S NOMINATION

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 5A

LENGTH: 374 words


St. Louis County Executive Gene McNary should not be confirmed as head of the
Immigration and Naturalization Service because he has failed to help the
homeless ''refugees'' in the county, said the Rev. Larry Rice.  Rice is pastor
of New Life Evangelistic Center here and an advocate for homeless people. He
appeared Friday outside the county administration building in Clayton with about
20 homeless people to gather signatures on a petition asking Congress to reject
McNary as head of the immigration service.  Rice said similar demonstrations
would be held from 9 a.m. to noon every Friday through September.  ''Because of
Mr. McNary's indifference and lack of leadership in responding to the St. Louis
County epidemic of homelessness, thousands of women, children and men now wander
through the St. Louis area as American refugees,'' he said, reading from the
petition.  ''Therefore, because St. Louis County's response to its own refugee
problem under . . . McNary is a national disgrace, and furthermore because
McNary has no background in immigration, we the undersigned urge rejection of
his nomination.'' Copies of the petition will be distributed to Congress and
President George Bush. Bush is expected to announce his selection of McNary soon
for the immigration post.  McNary could not be reached for comment Friday night.

LOAD-DATE: October 25, 1993

LANGUAGE: English

                  Copyright 1989 St. Louis Post-Dispatch, Inc.


                              205 of 268 DOCUMENTS

                       St. Louis Post-Dispatch (Missouri)

                  August 8, 1989, TUESDAY, THREE STAR Edition

INS NEEDS AN EXPERIENCED COMMISSIONER

SECTION: EDITORIAL; Pg. 2B

LENGTH: 534 words


No one is saying why it took so long for President Bush to formally announce
Gene McNary as his choice to head the Immigration and Naturalization Service.
Mr. McNary says he has used the time since the nomination first was rumored to
read up on immigration issues; that admission shows why he is not the right man
for the job. His long tenure as St. Louis County executive has given him no
experience in the tough issues the INS faces. This is no time for a candidate
who needs on-the-job training.  That's not to say Mr. McNary would not be an
appropriate choice for a top federal post in any number of fields - highways,
for example, or aviation. The breadth and depth of experience he has gained
while serving as the county's highest elected official since 1974 would be
useful in dealing with many urban issues.  But immigration is simply not an area
that the St. Louis County executive has to deal with. Nothing in Mr. McNary's
background reveals a particular expertise or interest in immigration and
naturalization issues or a particular sympathy or understanding for the plight
of the disadvantaged. The problems that the new INS commissioner will face in
the next few years are complex; the bureaucracy he or she must manage is fraught
with difficulties that will require the full attention of someone who should be
able to start working from a base of knowledge from the first hour on the job.
The Senate Judiciary Committee rightly rejected William Lucas for the Justice
Department's top civil rights enforcement post because he was, as he admitted,
''new to the law.'' The same committee will find Gene McNary just as new to
immigration issues, if not more so. As eager as he seems to be to hold a
position in Washington, he and the Bush administration would be well advised to
find a more suitable job for him to fill.

LOAD-DATE: October 25, 1993

LANGUAGE: English

                  Copyright 1989 St. Louis Post-Dispatch, Inc.


                              206 of 268 DOCUMENTS

                       St. Louis Post-Dispatch (Missouri)

                  August 19, 1989, SATURDAY, FIVE STAR Edition

POLES IN CHICAGO WARY OF CHANGES

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 10A

LENGTH: 640 words


CHICAGO (AP) - Polish citizens and immigrants in Chicago reacted with some
enthusiasm an d a great deal of caution Friday to the announcement that a
Solidarity activist had been offered the job of premier in their native land.
''The Polish nation has shown the world that they haven't given up - even after
40 years,'' said Mira Puacz, owner of a Polish-language bookstore in the heart
of the city's Polish community.  ''It's unprecedented in Eastern Europe - it's
promising.'' A Polish government source said Friday that President Wojciech
Jaruzelski had chosen Tadeusz Mazowiecki to lead the East bloc's first
non-communist government.  Poles in Chicago, which has more people of Polish
descent than any other city outside Poland, and in Hamtramck, Mich., another
Polish center, expressed surprise at the rapid pace of change in their homeland.
Eight years ago, the government banned Solidarity, and as recently as last year,
the trade union remained outlawed.  ''The changes in Poland have come around so
fast that no one could have predicted one year ago, or even six months ago, that
it would come to pass,'' said Kazimierz Olejarczyk, vice president of the
Polish-American Congress in Hamtramck.  Mazowiecki, a journalist who has spent
time in prison for his anti-government activities, will have to persuade Poles
to make big sacrifices in coming months and years if he wants to succeed and get
Poland's economy back on track, Puacz said.  Barbara Zarnecki, a customer in the
bookstore, said she believed that Mazowiecki is the man for the job. ''He's a
very intelligent person,'' Zarnecki said. ''I think he can convince people that
there needs to be 20 years of belt-tightening.'' Others, however, were not so
confident - in Mazowiecki's abilities or in the will of Poland's Communist Party
to give up power.  Wlodzimierz Dziubek, who moved to Chicago from Warsaw four
years ago, said he feared that things in Poland would get worse, not better.
''It'll be a repeat of '80 and '81,'' Dziubek said, referring to the imposition
of martial law that ended Solidarity's brief heyday. ''How many times have they
said in Poland that they'll change and there'll be democratization? '56, '70,
'80 - this is the fourth time.'' Marian Prusek, who owns a travel agency in the
Chicago neighborhood, said that although the authorities probably would be
reluctant to give up power, they may do so peacefully.  ''From what we know of
the Communists, they don't give up power without a struggle,'' Prusek said.
''But now we need to know what form that struggle will take - will it be in the
Parliament?''

LOAD-DATE: October 25, 1993

LANGUAGE: English

                  Copyright 1989 St. Louis Post-Dispatch, Inc.


                              207 of 268 DOCUMENTS

                       St. Louis Post-Dispatch (Missouri)

                  August 20, 1989, SUNDAY, THREE STAR Edition

PARK SERVICE WON'T RAISE SUNKEN FERRY

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 7A

LENGTH: 187 words


NEWARK, N.J. (AP) - The National Park Service has decided against raising the
sunken ferry Ellis Island, which carried 12 million immigrants to new lives. The
Park Service cannot afford the approximately $250,000 that it would cost to
raise the 160-foot ferry, which rests under 14 feet of water off Ellis Island,
said Edie Shean-Hammond, a spokeswoman for the Park Service.  The Ellis Island
ferried immigrants and government workers between the island and the mainland.
The boat was moored at the island after the immigration station closed in 1954.
It sank in 1968.  A Navy salvage unit decided in June that the boat's iron hull
was too weak to withstand the stress of being raised.

LOAD-DATE: October 25, 1993

LANGUAGE: English

                  Copyright 1989 St. Louis Post-Dispatch, Inc.


                              208 of 268 DOCUMENTS

                       St. Louis Post-Dispatch (Missouri)

                  August 24, 1989, THURSDAY, FIVE STAR Edition

ADVOCATES OF HOMELESS, POOR TO FIGHT MCNARY'S NOMINATION

BYLINE: Virgil Tipton Of the Post-Dispatch Staff

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 3A

LENGTH: 760 words


A group in St. Louis thinks Gene McNary lacks the compassion and experience
needed to head the federal immigration service.  And the group is taking steps
to let officials in Washington know what it thinks.  The new organization - so
new that it has yet to name itself - includes advocates for the homeless and for
people of low and moderate incomes. To press their point about McNary, members
plan a demonstration and news conference Friday morning in front of the St.
Louis County administration building, where McNary works as county executive.
President George Bush has nominated McNary as chief of the U.S. Immigration and
Naturalization Service, a post that requires Senate confirmation. Until now, no
organized opposition to McNary's nomination had been reported.  The new
opponents hope to join groups nationwide to block McNary's confirmation, said
David O. Depker, who heads the local group and lobbies for the Missouri
Coalition for the Homeless.  Opponents would organize demonstrations, collect
signatures and lobby senators, Depker said.  The local opposition group includes
the Association for Community Organizations for Reform Now; Christians United
for Compassionate Government; and Right to Residency. A petition drive is being
headed by the Rev. Larry Rice, of the New Life Evangelistic Center. Depker said
that about 2,000 signatures had been collected.  The organizations have become
involved in the immigration nomination because immigrants are often in the same
situation as poor people here, said Jean Daugherty, a member of Right to
Residency. ''When you come to a new country, in a sense you are homeless,'' she
said.  Some groups have raised concerns about McNary's nomination, but none has
formally opposed the confirmation, said David Carle, a spokesman for Sen.  Paul
Simon, D-Ill. Simon is on the immigration subcommittee of the Senate Judiciary
Committee.  The committee will hear listen to the views of groups interested in
the issue, Carle said.  Depker said the local group opposed McNary's
confirmation for three reasons. Depker said McNary: Lacks compassion for the
poor. For example, McNary's decision to close the St. Louis County Hospital and
transfer services to clinics and St. Louis Regional Hospital has made it
inconvenient for the poor to get medical care, Depker said.  Has no experience
in immigration issues.  Is a ''bad administrator.'' Pam Grant, a spokeswoman for
Gene McNary, had no direct response Wednesday to the group. on Wednesday. But
she noted that McNary had appointed a task force on the homeless; the task force
is due to submit a report next month.  McNary has said his experience as county
executive, prosecuting attorney and a public defender qualify him for the
immigration job.  About 40 groups in other cities, including Washington, New
York, San Francisco and Tucson, Ariz., also are interested in fighting McNary's
confirmation, Depker said.  Depker declined Wednesday to identify the groups,
saying they had not given him written permission to do so.

LOAD-DATE: October 25, 1993

LANGUAGE: English

GRAPHIC: Photo; PHOTO-HEADSHOT. Gene McNary

                  Copyright 1989 St. Louis Post-Dispatch, Inc.


                              209 of 268 DOCUMENTS

                       St. Louis Post-Dispatch (Missouri)

                   August 25, 1989, FRIDAY, FIVE STAR Edition

DISBARRED LAWYER LEADS GROUP OPPOSING MCNARY FOR U.S. POST

BYLINE: Virgil Tipton Of the Post-Dispatch Staff

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 8A

LENGTH: 427 words


The leader of an effort to block confirmation of St. Louis County Executive Gene
McNary as federal immigration chief was disbarred by the Missouri Supreme Court
last year after his clients claimed that he failed to perform legal services for
which he was paid.  He is David O. Depker, a lobbyist for the Missouri Coalition
for the Homeless. Depker and other advocates for the poor are opposing McNary's
confirmation, saying McNary lacks compassion for the poor and lacks experience
in immigration issues.  McNary has been nominated as commissioner of the
Immigration and Naturalization Service; he is expected to undergo hearings in a
few weeks.  Opponents to the confirmation have scheduled a demonstration and
news conference today at the St. Louis County administration building. They say
they hope to work with other groups throughout the country.  Among the local
opponents is the Rev. Larry Rice of the New Life Evangelistic Center.  Depker on
Thursday denied that he had cheated his clients, as they had alleged. He
acknowledged that he was guilty of a lesser charge - not paying his Missouri Bar
enrollment fees for two years.  He said he left his fees unpaid because ''I was
burnt out on the practice of law,'' he said. ''Anything else that's alleged is
not true.'' The state Supreme Court ordered Depker disbarred on July 12, 1988,
after finding him guilty of 13 counts of violating the court's rules. In most of
the counts, Depker was accused of taking money from clients and keeping it for
services he did not perform. He was paid more than $10,600 for the services.
Depker said Thursday that he had absolutely performed the services.  One of the
clients he was accused of cheating was PACT Inc., a St. Louis County
organization set up to challenge incompetent or dishonest lawyers.

LOAD-DATE: October 25, 1993

LANGUAGE: English

                  Copyright 1989 St. Louis Post-Dispatch, Inc.


                              210 of 268 DOCUMENTS

                       St. Louis Post-Dispatch (Missouri)

                August 27, 1989, SUNDAY, LATE FIVE STAR Edition

JEWS IN ROME DEMAND VISAS FROM U.S.

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 2D

LENGTH: 227 words


ROME - Ten Soviet Jews have gone on a hunger strike outside the U.S. Embassy in
Rome to press for visas to enter the United States as refugees.  One of them,
Eugene Zafrin, said they were stranded in Italy because the United States had
rejected their applications to enter as refugees from religious persecution.
''We will stay here day and night until either we get the visas or we are taken
to hospital,'' Zafrin said.  The U.S. government has said many of the rejected
applicants had been offered entry under a ''parole'' scheme provided they find
someone to support them.  About 15,000 Soviet Jews are in Italy awaiting
resettlement. Italy offers temporary asylum to East European refugees under a
long-standing agreement with the United Nations.  The Jews leave the Soviet
Union with Israeli entry visas but many say they do not want to go there.

LOAD-DATE: October 25, 1993

LANGUAGE: English

                  Copyright 1989 St. Louis Post-Dispatch, Inc.


                              211 of 268 DOCUMENTS

                       St. Louis Post-Dispatch (Missouri)

                  August 27, 1989, SUNDAY, THREE STAR Edition

MANY ALIENS WITH AIDS PRESUMABLY STOP PURSUING LEGALIZATION

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 5B

LENGTH: 827 words


NEW YORK - Hundreds of immigrants in the New York metropolitan region who began
applying for legalization under the federal amnesty program are believed to have
chosen instead to remain illegal because they have tested positive for the AIDS
virus and fear deportation as a result.  No one knows precisely how many aliens
have tested positive for the virus, but advocacy groups estimate hundreds are in
the New York area.  Similar groups in San Francisco, another center of AIDS
cases and immigration, say they have identified 100 cases there in which aliens
have tested positive.  These San Francisco groups also estimate that hundreds
more exist that are undetected.  Even the Immigration and Naturalization Service
does not know how many people have tested positive, but the agency said it
presumed that a great majority of them have stopped pursuing legalization.
These immigrants - largely from Africa, Asia, Latin America and the Caribbean -
have lived in the United States for at least seven years and would be eligible
for legalization under the amnesty program.  But under a federal regulation
adopted in December 1987, aliens must be tested for the AIDS virus before they
can be granted permanent residence, the last stop before citizenship.  If test
results are positive, legal status can be denied. As illegal aliens, the
immigrants could be sent back to their homelands, where AIDS treatment is often
lacking. Exceptions are for aliens seeking political asylum and those seeking
legalization under the amnesty program. They can apply for waivers.  ''From the
small number of waiver requests coming in, we can assume that the majority of
people testing positive decided not to pursue their legalization applications,''
said Duane Austin, a spokesman for the immigration service in Washington.
Health experts say about half of those who test positive for the AIDS virus,
known as HIV, develop symptoms of AIDS (acquired immune deficiency syndrome)
within 10 years of infection.  Under the amnesty program, which began May 5,
1987, and lasted a year, those in the first group of eligible aliens have until
next June to take the tests and submit applications for permanent residence.
This group applied for temporary residence before HIV testing became mandatory.
Out of 870,000 nationwide in this group, 513,000 have been tested and submitted
applications for permanent residence, according to figures from the immigration
agency. Among the remaining 357,000, some are believed to have tested positive
and decided not to continue the process, while others have not taken tests.
After testing became mandatory, another 1 million aliens applied for
legalization, either testing negative or submitting applications for waivers
after testing positive. No one knows how many people in this period tested
positive and failed to apply.  The head of the immigration agency's
Administrative Appeal Unit in Washington, which rules on waivers, said no final
decisions had been made on applications for waivers by aliens who tested
positive for the AIDS virus.

LOAD-DATE: October 25, 1993

LANGUAGE: English

                  Copyright 1989 St. Louis Post-Dispatch, Inc.


                              212 of 268 DOCUMENTS

                       St. Louis Post-Dispatch (Missouri)

                  August 27, 1989, SUNDAY, THREE STAR Edition

LOW EDUCATION LEVELS AMONG IMMIGRANTS CONCERN RESEARCHERS

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 5B

LENGTH: 1334 words


LOS ANGELES - Two recent surveys of newly legalized immigrants in California
have found such low levels of education, employment and fluency in English that
investigators warn that current levels of federal and state assistance will
prove inadequate in assimilating them.  The state-financed surveys found that at
least four-fifths of the immigrants interviewed did not understand English well
enough to take their full place in the work force or to acquire needed
vocational training.  The polls were conducted among more than 100,000 men and
women who were granted amnesty under the immigration law of 1986; most of those
interviewed are Mexican.  Almost half of the 3 million immigrants granted
amnesty live in California.  State officials and academics involved with the
immigrants there said the studies showed that federal and state educational
assistance were inadequate.  They cited a need for vocational training and
continuing intensive training in English beyond the 40-hour courses required
under the amnesty program.  The studies were based on questionnaires completed
by students entering or completing the required English courses and amount to
the first systematic look at this newly legal sector of U.S. society.  Richard
Stiles, manager for the amnesty-education office under the California department
of education, conducted one of the studies. He said the research was especially
significant because ''we never had this big an immigration all at once from one
sector.'' Saeed Ali, executive director of the state's Community College Amnesty
Network, conducted the other study. Ali and Stiles said the findings among the
immigrants in California appeared to reflect the situation for the nation as a
whole. One of the surveys found that about 14 percent of the immigrants - most
of whom are young men - were unemployed and that two-thirds earned less than
$6.25 an hour.  That study also found a high degree of optimism and
determination to succeed among the immigrants, and positive responses to
questions about whether they were comfortable living in the United States.  ''I
think the amnesty program will help me to make a good future,'' said Rosa
Guzman, an immigrant from El Salvador who is working as a housemaid while trying
to start a carpet-cleaning business.  ''I want to have my own house. I want to
have my own car. I want to give an education to my daughter. And I want to help
my family to be legal here in America.'' The two surveys were conducted in April
and May. Neither has been published, and the findings are still being an alyzed.
The surveys covered the first group of students to join the program. Ali said it
appeared that later groups had lower levels of education, proficiency in English
and ability to function within the U.S. culture and bureaucracy.  ''We are
seeing the tip of the iceberg,'' he said, ''and what is below the iceberg is
much harder ice, in terms of what we will need to do to assimilate them.'' Ali
said programs for the immigrants in English and vocational or high school
equivalency were failing to meet the needs demonstrated by his findings.  State
Sen. Art Torres, who has pressed for more money to educate the immigrants, said,
''We have not prepared adequately either in the short or the long term, and the
Immigration and Naturalization Service has not prepared adequately for this
large group of immigrants.'' In passing the immigration law, Congress intended
that this group become productive citizens, Torres said, and an obligation
exists to finance programs to teach them English and vocational skills.  ''The
only way that these 3 million people are ever going to be part of the mainstream
is that there has got to be some further education to give them upward mobility
from the menial jobs they are in now,'' said John Davitt, president of Glendale
Community College, which is involved in the program to educate the immigrants.
Stiles' survey involved 100,000 participants in the federally financed English
program. Ali's study, which was more detailed, involved 2,600 people enrolled
under the program at community colleges.  The findings of a third survey, a
nationwide study commissioned by the Immigration and Naturalization Service,
will be released this fall.  Stiles' study found that about 85 percent of the
immigrants surveyed were below an English-language literacy benchmark commonly
used for jobs and welfare programs.  In Ali's study, 80 percent of the
respondents said the knowledge of English was a requirement at least part of the
time where they worked, indicating a wide gap between language needs and
abilities.  ''When they are at the fringes of functionality in the English
language, they are at risk,'' Stiles said. ''They are almost at the margins of
employment.'' e obln s iwt Ali said he had found that 75 percent of respondents
were under 35 and that 60 percent were men.  One-third said they were single,
and nearly 40 percent said they had no children. But 90 percent said their
households had three people, and 25 percent said theirs had five people or more,
a finding with implications for future housing requirements of unrelated groups.
As expected, 91 percent of those responding in Ali's survey were of Hispanic
origin, including 73 percent from Mexico, 15 percent from Central American
countries and 3 percent from South America.  In Stiles' survey, 98 percent of
the respondents were of Hispanic descent, with a corresponding number giving
Spanish as their native language.

LOAD-DATE: October 25, 1993

LANGUAGE: English

                  Copyright 1989 St. Louis Post-Dispatch, Inc.


                              213 of 268 DOCUMENTS

                       St. Louis Post-Dispatch (Missouri)

                 September 5, 1989, TUESDAY, THREE STAR Edition

U.S. TO RETAIN QUOTAS ON SOVIET IMMIGRANTS

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 10A

LENGTH: 534 words


WASHINGTON - New ceilings on the admission of Soviet refugees to the United
States will not reduce the number of Soviet Jews coming here, officials in
President George Bush's adminstration have said.  The limits will remain at
roughly 33,000 a year, the officials explained.  The administration tentatively
has decided to put a cei ling on Soviet refugee admissions to hold them at
current levels, the officials said Sunday. The immigration to the United States
has reached its highest level in a decade after a decision by the Soviet
government to allow virtually free emigration.  In the early 1980s, the Soviet
Union allowed only a handful of its citizens to emigrate, and the United States
eagerly offered admission to most of them.  But now the number of Jews
emigrating from the Soviet Union to all other countries has soared from 8,155 in
1987 to an estimate of more than 48,000 this year - a number far larger than the
United States ever planned on aiding financially or accepting as immigrants.
During the current fiscal year, the United States is accepting 43,500 refugees
from the Soviet Union, of whom about 33,000 are Jews, the adminstration
officials said. The rest are Pentecostalist Christians, who have been persecuted
by Soviet authorities in the past, and other political or religious refugees.
In the fiscal year starting Oct. 1, the administration plans to fix a ceiling of
50,000 Soviet refugees, of whom 40,000 would be offered financial aid from the
government. The other 10,000 would be required to find help from charities.  The
main restraint on U.S. refugee admissions, officials said, is financial: By
granting refugee status to an immigrant, the federal government also makes a
commitment to pay the refugee's transportation and resettlement costs, which
average about $7,000 a person.  The average cost for Soviet Jews is somewhat
lower, roughly $5,000 for each refugee, because they often get aid from Jewish
charities, one official said.

LOAD-DATE: October 25, 1993

LANGUAGE: English

                  Copyright 1989 St. Louis Post-Dispatch, Inc.


                              214 of 268 DOCUMENTS

                       St. Louis Post-Dispatch (Missouri)

                September 12, 1989, TUESDAY, THREE STAR Edition

IMMIGRATION POLICY IN JAPAN TO EXCLUDE 'PSEUDO-REFUGEES'

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 11A

LENGTH: 400 words


TOKYO (AP) - Japan will not grant refugee status to Vietnamese and other
Indochinese solely for better economic prospects, officials said Monday.
Beginning Wednesday, Japan will adopt a new screening process based on an
international agreement reached in Geneva in June, said Toshio Tsunozaki,
director of the Foreign Ministry's Human Rights and Refugee Division. ''We are
implementing the measures to exclude the pseudo-refugees and to distinguish
genuine refugees,'' he said. ''We would like to prevent abuse of very generous
treatment by the Japanese side.'' Many of the Vietnamese boat people who arrived
recently in Japan told officials they came to escape poverty, not because of
religious, political or racial persecution.  Tsunozaki said those already
granted refugee status would be allowed to stay.  Japan will not push arriving
boats back out to sea, he added. Those who are refused status as refugees will
be detained in immigration centers until they can be repatriated, he said.  More
than 1.8 million Indochinese refugees have been settled in some 30 countries,
but more than 165,000 remained in camps in Asia as of April.  So far this year,
2,950 Vietnamese boat people have arrived in Japan, compared with 219 last year.
Justice Ministry officials have attributed the recent increase to Japan's former
refugee policy.  Unlike the United States, as well as many Asian nations, Japan
has never distinguished between Indochinese fleeing from political persecution
and those fleeing from poverty.

LOAD-DATE: October 25, 1993

LANGUAGE: English

                  Copyright 1989 St. Louis Post-Dispatch, Inc.


                              215 of 268 DOCUMENTS

                       St. Louis Post-Dispatch (Missouri)

                September 26, 1989, TUESDAY, THREE STAR Edition

AGENCIES WORK OVERTIME TO PROCESS SOVIET JEWS

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 4B

LENGTH: 560 words


ROME (AP) - Relief groups are trying to help thousands of Soviet Jews reach the
United States by Saturday night, the last day they may enter relatively easily.
The groups are working overtime to prepare the refugees' applications for
examination at the U.S. Embassy in Rome, one of the main transfer points for
Soviet Jews who are trying to immigrate to the United States.  Saturday marks
the end of the U.S. government's fiscal year, and authorities are planning new
limits on Soviet immigration for the next fiscal year.  In recent weeks, more
than 400 Soviet refugees have filled New York-bound planes each morning at
Rome's Leonardo da Vinci airport, up from an average of 130 a day in May,
according to the U.N. International Committee for Migration.  On Thursday, 1,350
Soviet Jews will leave Rome for New York - 480 on one plane.  Most Soviet Jews
leave the Soviet Union on an Israeli visa allowing them to enter Israel. But
once they get to Rome or Vienna, Austria, most apply for U.S. visas.  Until last
October, all Soviet Jews were granted U.S. refugee status on the ground that
they were the object of persecution at home. As U.S.-Soviet relations improved
and as Soviet President Mikhail S. Gorbachev put more liberal policies into
effect, the number of Jews allowed to emigrate mushroomed from a few hundred a
year to 33,444 in the first eight months of this year.  The United States
increased its quota on Soviet refugees from 25,000 to 43,500 for the current
fiscal year. But then it began to insist that applicants prove that their fears
of persecution were well-founded.  The State Department expects 250,000 Soviets
to apply for entry to the United States next year. But for the fiscal year
beginning Sunday, President George Bush's administration is considering giving
refugee status only to Soviet Jews with relatives or other ties to the United
States.  Applicants who are denied refugee status would be able to get a visa,
but they would have to find a sponsor to guarantee their financial security and
would have to wait longer to become permanent residents.  Agencies helping
Soviet Jews are afraid the new regulations will drive up the rate of visas that
are refused. The agencies have speeded up immigration applications to fill the
current fiscal year's quota for Soviet refugees.

LOAD-DATE: October 25, 1993

LANGUAGE: English

                  Copyright 1989 St. Louis Post-Dispatch, Inc.


                              216 of 268 DOCUMENTS

                       St. Louis Post-Dispatch (Missouri)

                  October 3, 1989, TUESDAY, FIVE STAR Edition

ON THE LINE MCNARY FACES OPPOSITION FROM LARGE HISPANIC GROUP

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 1C

LENGTH: 1280 words


WASHINGTON THE NATION'S LARGEST Hispanic group will oppose St. Louis County
Executive Gene McNary as head of the immigration service, a top official of the
group said Monday.  The opposition will be announced today in testimony before
the Senate Judiciary Committee, which is holding confirmation hearings on
McNary's nomination to be commissioner of the U.S. Immigration and
Naturalization Service.  The group is the League of United Latin American
Citizens, known as LULAC.  Arnold S. Torres, its national political adviser, is
expected to deliver the opposing testimony.  In a telephone interview, Torres
said his organization had decided to oppose McNary because of his lack of ex
perience on immigration matters and because of allegations of his insensitivity
to minorities.  ''We simply do not believe that this position needs another
on-the-jobber,'' Torres said. ''There are many other positions where Mr.  McNary
could serve in this administration.'' McNary still is likely to be confirmed
unless he stumbles badly in his testimony, Senate sources said. But the
opposition underscored the uneasiness of minority groups about his nomination.
Three other Hispanic groups will also testify and express concern. Their
decision on McNary will depend on his testimony, according to officials in the
groups.  But the Organization of Chinese Americans will endorse McNary after
having expressed reservations earlier. Also, McNary will come armed with letters
of support from at least two minority groups in St. Louis.  In addition, House
Majority Leader Richard A. Gephardt, D-St. Louis, will join Missouri's two
Republican senators in introducing McNary to the committee.  ''Mr. McNary asked
him to do it,'' said Gephardt's press secretary, Deborah Johns. ''He's known
McNary a long time. They're hometown boys.'' Johns said she did not know whether
Gephardt was aware of the decision by LULAC to oppose McNary. The group is
politically active, with many friends in the Democratic Party.  At hearings
today, McNary is expected to be questioned closely about episodes in his 15
years as county executive that involved minorities.  These include his strong
opposition to low-income housing in the county, his opposition to school
desegregation programs, his attempts to cut health services, and an allegation
that he lacks concern for the homeless.  McNary already has been quizzed on many
of these issues in private by various members of the Judiciary Committee,
including Sen. Edward M.  Kennedy, D-Mass., chairman of the subcommittee on
immigration. He has also met privately with Sen. Paul Simon, D-Ill., the other
Democrat on the subcommittee.  McNary's answers on these questions have so far
been generally acceptable if not totally satisfactory, according to those
familiar with the meetings.  McNary is likely to be questioned about them in
public today. He is also likely to be lectured about the importance of
sensitivity to Hispanics, Chinese, Jews, and other minorities who will be
directly affected by immigration policy.  LULAC is the country's oldest and
largest Hispanic civil rights and service group. Torres said McNary appeared to
be a bright man and a quick study.  But he said the group had decided that the
immigration agency - given its increasing importance - needed a more qualified
leader.  ''On background alone, Mr. McNary falls short,'' Torres said. ''Now,
when you put on top of that the allegations of his insensitivity to the poor,
that creates a real problem.'' Torres said that accounts of McNary's battle to
build a domed sports stadium in St. Louis County showed a potentially vindictive
streak.  ''When this gentleman takes a setback, when he gets criticized by
immigration advocacy groups, is he going to deal with them in the same way?''
Torres asked.  Torres said the Senate had joined with the administration in
treating the immigration post as a political job in the past. ''You would think
they would recognize the sensitivity of the position,'' Torres said. ''It's been
basically treated as part of the political spoils. And you just can't keep doing
that.'' Cecilia Munoz, senior immigration policy analyst for the National
Council of La Raza, another Hispanic rights group, said she was troubled by
allegations of insensitivity from those in McNary's hometown. She cited
editorials in the Post-Dispatch and comments from others as being of concern.
''We'll be paying very close attention to Mr. McNary's responses,'' said Munoz,
who will also testify today. If they prove inadequate, she said, ''we're
prepared to ask the committee to oppose him.'' She noted that other immigration
commissioners had lacked experience and that the agency today was in disarray.
''You have to wonder if that's entirely a coincidence,'' she said.  Melinda C.
Yee, executive director of the Organization of Chinese Americans, noted that her
group had previously expressed reservations.  But she said that the St. Louis
chapter of her organization had worked closely with McNary and felt that he
should be supported.

LOAD-DATE: October 27, 1993

LANGUAGE: English

GRAPHIC: Photo; PHOTO HEADSHOT of St. Louis County Executive Gene
McNary...Facing confirmation hearings for immigration post..

                  Copyright 1989 St. Louis Post-Dispatch, Inc.


                              217 of 268 DOCUMENTS

                       St. Louis Post-Dispatch (Missouri)

                  October 6, 1989, FRIDAY, THREE STAR Edition

MR. MCNARY'S ONE-HOUR TEACHING CAREER

SECTION: EDITORIAL; Pg. 2C

LENGTH: 560 words


In the words of Illinois Sen. Paul Simon, who has been less than enthusiastic
about Gene McNary's nomination to head the Immigration and Naturalization
Service, the St. Louis County executive ''survived'' Tuesday's Senate Judiciary
Committee hearing. But Mr. McNary's attempts to establish credentials for the
immigration post fell far short of the standard that the Senate should demand.
The most glaring example of Mr. McNary's shortcomings came when Sen. Simon
pressed him to give any possible reassurance that he has shown concern for the
less fortunate. Mr. McNary's answer: He has coached Little League baseball and
taught a class of 5-year-old disabled children. ''You've answered my question,''
Sen. Simon said, ''particularly when you talk of the disabled.'' But as a
spokeswoman for the Special School District acknowledged Wednesday, Mr. McNary's
entire teaching career consisted of spending an hour with a class in 1984 as
part of a celebrity teach-in program. He led students ages 3 to 5 in lessons
prepared by their regular teacher. The same type of cameo appearance was made by
a number of other prominent St. Louisans as well.  Such one-shot experiences
don't qualify those other celebrities to head the INS, and they don't establish
very good qualifications for Mr. McNary, either.  Anyone who has followed his
career in St. Louis County government has seen much stronger strains of
stubbornness and vindictiveness than of compassion for the underprivileged. That
attitude is precisely the opposite of what is needed in the person to handle the
touchy issues that will confront the INS in the coming years. Immigration
experts are urging that if Mr. McNary wins Senate confirmation, he should name
someone experienced in the field as his top assistant, to compensate for his
meager background. But wouldn't it be far better to name a veteran in
immigration affairs to the top job in the first place? Mr.  McNary may be a
seasoned government executive, but this is no time for on-the-job training at
the head of the INS. He has shown nothing to dispel the notion that he is the
wrong man for the INS job.

LOAD-DATE: October 27, 1993

LANGUAGE: English

                  Copyright 1989 St. Louis Post-Dispatch, Inc.


                              218 of 268 DOCUMENTS

                       St. Louis Post-Dispatch (Missouri)

                  October 17, 1989, TUESDAY, FIVE STAR Edition

N.J. SCHNEGELBERGER; MINISTER, PARALEGAL

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 4B

LENGTH: 467 words


A funeral for the Rev. Norman J. Schnegelberger, immigration director at the
International Institute of Metropolitan St. Louis, will be at 1 p.m. Friday at
Messiah Lutheran Church, 2846 South Grand Avenue. Burial will be in St.  Trinity
Cemetery. The Rev. Mr. Schnegelberger died Sunday at Deaconess Hospital after
suffering a heart attack. He was 43.  The Rev. Mr. Schnegelberger counseled
immigrants at the International Institute, 3800 Park Avenue, helping them obtain
legal representation and professional counseling. Since 1985, he has helped
illegal aliens during the recent legalization program at little cost.  Fluent in
Spanish, the Rev. Mr. Schnegelberger was the only paralegal in Missouri
authorized to represent people in hearings before the Immigration and
Naturalization Service and its appeals board. He also trained immigration
counselors in other cities.  Before joining the International Institute, he
worked for the Lutheran Family and Children's Service for a decade, helping
refugee families settle here under the sponsorship of area Lutheran
congregations. He also helped coordinate the state-funded Refugee Assistance
Program in Columbia, Mo.  For the past year, the Rev. Mr. Schnegelberger also
had been a part-time pastor at Our Savior Lutheran Church in Salem, Mo. He
graduated in 1979 from the old Christ Seminary Seminex in St. Louis.  Surviving
are his wife, Judy Schnegelberger; three sons: Paul Schnegelberger, who is in
the Air Force stationed in Japan, Peter Schnegelberger and Joel Schnegelberger,
both of St. Louis; his mother, Goldie Schnegelberger of Fort Morgan; two
sisters, Margot Abel of Odessa, Texas, and Donna Evans of Colcord, Okla.; and
two brothers, the Rev. Kent Schnegelberger of Longmont, Colo., and Mark
Schnegelberger of Greeley, Colo.

LOAD-DATE: October 27, 1993

LANGUAGE: English

GRAPHIC: Photo; PHOTO-HEADSHOT. Rev. Norman J. Schnegelberger

                  Copyright 1989 St. Louis Post-Dispatch, Inc.


                              219 of 268 DOCUMENTS

                       St. Louis Post-Dispatch (Missouri)

                 October 25, 1989, WEDNESDAY, FIVE STAR Edition

SENATE CONFIRMS MCNARY

BYLINE: Charlotte Grimes And Virgil Tipton Of the Post-Dispatch Staff

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 1A

LENGTH: 1600 words


After a week as a hostage to Senate politics, St. Louis County Executive Gene
McNary was confirmed on a voice vote late Tuesday to become commissioner of the
U.S. Immigration and Naturalization Service.  The official stamp of approval was
almost anti-climactic. His was one in a batch of nominations accepted at the end
of the workday by senators.  Democrats were eager to get away early to a dinner
of the Democratic National Committee.  The nomination means that by late this
afternoon St. Louis County will have a new county executive. In all probability,
it will be H.C. Milford of Webster Groves, an insurance company executive and a
County Council member from the 5th District. He is a Republican, like McNary.
Milford said he would have a statement today outlining his first steps in
office. Tuesday night he said, ''I think I'm ready to go, and I feel good about
that.'' McNary was not even mentioned by name as the Senate took up the
confirmation. Majority Leader George J. Mitchell of Maine simply called on his
colleagues to vote on the ''executive calendar'' of nominations.  McNary was No.
446.  But for McNary, who already has bought a house in Washington, it was the
end of a long wait. He has been waiting since May for the Immigration and
Naturalization Service post and even longer since his name first surfaced as a
potential nominee for a post in the President George Bush's administration. The
way was cleared at the last moment Tuesday afternoon when a Republican senator
from Vermont removed the last roadblock - a so-called hold on a group of
nominations that came about as part of a tiff, unrelated to McNary, between the
senator and the Justice Department.  ''We're thrilled,'' said Pam Grant,
McNary's spokeswoman. She said she had spoken with McNary shortly after he was
confirmed. ''I think he was pretty excited,'' she said.  Grant said that McNary
would hold a news conference in Washington today.  McNary had planned to return
to St. Louis for Thursday's regular meeting of the County Council, but he may
change his plans, Grant said.  Members of the County Council said they were glad
to hear the news.  ''I think the county can now get on with business,'' said
Councilman John R. Shear of Ferguson, D-1st District. ''The past month, I think
McNary's absence from county government has been noticed.'' McNary has been
avoiding leadership on pressing issues such as plans for a downtown stadium and
representati on on the Lambert Airport Commission, Shear said.  Councilman
George M. ''Jerry'' Corcoran of St. Ann, D-2nd District, said he was looking
forward to working with Milford.  ''I have not had a great deal of rapport with
(McNary), but I've always felt I've been able to talk with Councilman Milford,''
Corcoran said.  William E. Whitehall of Chesterfield, R-7th District, the
council chairman, said effective leadership by Milford would enhance his chances
of winning the post in the election next November.  ''For the Republicans, it's
essential that we get him installed, get him some name recognition so that we
have a viable candidate,'' Whitehall said.  Milford faces several big issues in
the days ahead, including the county's budget for next year, potential county
representation on the Airport Commission and a meeting with promoters of a new
stadium downtown.  In Clayton, William A. Skaggs, McNary's chief of staff, will
deliver McNary's resignation letter to the County Council today. The council has
scheduled a special session for 3 p.m. to accept McNary's resignation and to
elect Milford as his successor.  The county charter requires that a vacancy in
the executive's office be filled by a member of the same party.  Meanwhile,
Skaggs said that he expected to be appointed McNary's chief of staff at the
Immigration and Naturalization Service. That appointment needs approval from the
Justice Department and from the personnel office at the White House, Skaggs
said.  Joyce Skaggs, William Skaggs' wife, is likely to continue her job as
McNary's secretary, William Skaggs said.  Before the hold, McNary's nomination
was approved by the Senate Judiciary Committee, although two of its members had
reservations about him.  Sen. Edward M. Kennedy, D-Mass., chairman of the
immigration subcommittee, had gone along with McNary's nomination but had
expressed doubts about ''incidents in his political career which suggest an
insensitivity to minorities and the disadvantaged.'' Sen. Paul Simon, D-Ill.,
the subcommittee's other Democrat, also had allowed McNary to get committee
approval without objection, although he harbored some concerns about the
sensitivity question and about McNary's lack of experience on immigration
issues.  In reference to McNary's final confirmation, Simon said: ''I hope he
learns on the job and does well. I look forward to working with him.'' Sen. John
C. Danforth, R-Mo., who had been among McNary's Republican supporters, said:
''Gene McNary will bring excellent administrative and legal experience to the
INS.'' Sen. Christopher S. Bond, R-Mo, said: ''It seemed like every time we had
it ready to go, something would come along and hold it up but, I am very
grateful it's finally complete.'' Earlier this month, McNary and his wife,
Susan, sold their condominium in Town and Country for $231,500 and moved out.
They have bought a house in Great Falls, Va., a suburb of Washington, and have
traveled there frequently in recent weeks. While in Missouri, they have been
staying with relatives in Kirkwood.  McNary became a hostage to Senate politics
when Sen. James M. Jeffords, R-Vt., put a hold last week on the batch of
nominations that included McNary, several judges and U.S. attorneys, according
to Senate sources.  Jeffords top aide, Susan Russ, said Tuesday afternoon that
the senator had released his hold. Jeffords had put the hold on the nominations
to get the attention of the Justice Department, who he felt had been ignoring
his recommendation for a federal judgeship in Vermont, Russ said.  Sources
agreed that McNary was irrelevant to the maneuvering and that the holds had
nothing to do with him.  McNary's confirmation came at the right time.  Earlier
Tuesday, County Councilman Donald L. Bond of Florissant, D-4th District,
suggested that McNary might be holding office illegally and should resign. Bond
questioned McNary's moving his residence from Town and Country in St. Louis
County to Virginia.  ''Had he not moved, I would have no questions,'' Bond said.
''But he physically moved to a primary residence in Washington.''

LOAD-DATE: October 27, 1993

LANGUAGE: English

GRAPHIC: Photo; PHOTO (COLOR) Headshot of Gene McNary...Immigration Chief.

                  Copyright 1989 St. Louis Post-Dispatch, Inc.


                              220 of 268 DOCUMENTS

                       St. Louis Post-Dispatch (Missouri)

                October 25, 1989, WEDNESDAY, THREE STAR Edition

SENATE CONFIRMS MCNARY

BYLINE: Charlotte Grimes and Virgil Tipton Of the Post-Dispatch Staff

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 1A

LENGTH: 1227 words


After a week as a hostage to Senate politics, St. Louis County Executive Gene
McNary was confirmed on a voice vote late Tuesday to become commissioner of the
U.S. Immigration and Naturalization Service.  The official stamp of approval was
almost anti-climactic. His was one in a batch of nominations accepted at the end
of the workday by senators - the Democrats at any rate - eager to get away early
to a dinner of the Democratic National Committee.  McNary was not even mentioned
by name as the Senate took up the confirmation.  Majority Leader George J.
Mitchell of Maine simply called on his colleagues to vote on the ''executive
calendar'' of nominations. McNary was No. 446.  But for McNary, who already has
bought a house in Washington, it was the end of the waiting since May for the
Immigration and Naturalization Service post and even longer since his name first
surfaced as a potential nominee for a post in the President George Bush's
administration.  The route to confirmation also was somewhat rocky. The way was
cleared at the last moment Tuesday afternoon when a Republican senator from
Vermont removed the last roadblock - a so-called hold on a group of nominations
that came about as part of a tiff, unrelated to McNary, between the senator and
the Justice Department.  ''We're thrilled,'' said Pam Grant, McNary's
spokeswoman. She said she had spoken with McNary shortly after he was confirmed.
''I think he was pretty excited,'' she said. Grant said that McNary would hold a
news conference in Washington today.  Back in Clayton, William A. Skaggs,
McNary's chief of staff will deliver McNary's resignation letter to the County
Council today. The council has scheduled a special session for 3 p.m., at which
County Councilman H.C.  Milford of Webster Groves, R-5th District, is all but
certain to be elected McNary's successor.  Milford said he would have a
statement today outlining his first steps in office. Tuesday night he said, ''I
think I'm ready to go, and I feel good about that.'' Milford faces several big
issues in the days ahead, including the county's budget for next year, potential
county representation on the Lambert Airport Commission and a meeting with
promoters of a new stadium downtown.  Meanwhile, Skaggs said that he expected to
be appointed McNary's chief of staff at the Immigration and Naturalization
Service. That appointment needs approval from the Justice Department and from
the personnel office at the White House, Skaggs said.  Joyce Skaggs, William
Skaggs' wife, is likely to continue her job as McNary's secretary, William
Skaggs said.  Skaggs said that the confirmation process seemed to drag at times
but actually followed the procedures outlined early by the White House.  Before
the hold, McNary's nomination was approved by the Senate Judiciary Committee,
although two of its members had reservations about him.  Sen. Edward M. Kennedy,
D-Mass., chairman of the immigration subcommittee, had gone along with McNary's
nomination but had expressed doubts about ''incidents in his political career
which suggest an insensitivity to minorities and the disadvantaged.'' Sen. Paul
Simon, D-Ill., the subcommittee's other Democrat, also had allowed McNary to get
committee approval without objection, although he harbored some concerns about
the sensitivity question and about McNary's lack of experience on immigration
issues.  In reference to McNary's final confirmation, Simon said: ''I hope he
learns on the job and does well. I look forward to working with h im.'' Sen.
John C. Danforth, R-Mo., who had been among McNary's Republican supporters, said
about the confirmation: ''Gene McNary will bring excellent administrative and
legal experience to the INS.'' Sen. Christopher S. Bond, R-Mo, said: ''I am
extremely pleased that we have finally been able to confirm Gene McNary as
commissioner of the Immigration and Naturalization Service before the U.S.
Senate. It seemed like every time we had it ready to go, something would come
along and hold it up but, I am very grateful it's finally complete.'' With no
strong opposition to his nomination, McNary has been getting ready for the new
job.  Earlier this month, he and his wife, Susan, sold their condominium in Town
and Country for $231,500 and moved out. They have bought a house in Great Falls,
Va., a suburb of Washington, and have traveled to that city frequently in recent
weeks. While in Missouri, they have been staying with relatives in Kirkwood.
McNary became a hostage to Senate politics when Sen. James M. Jeffords, R-Vt.,
put a hold last week on the batch of nominations that included McNary, several
judges and U.S. attorneys, according to Senate sources.  Jeffords top aide,
Susan Russ, said Tuesday afternoon that the senator had released his hold.
Jeffords had put the hold on the nominations to get the attention of the Justice
Department, who he felt had been ignoring his recommendation for a federal
judgeship in Vermont, Russ said.  Sources agreed that McNary was irrelevant to
the maneuvering and that the holds had nothing to do with him.  McNary's
confirmation came at the right time.

LOAD-DATE: October 27, 1993

LANGUAGE: English

GRAPHIC: Photo; PHOTO (COLOR) Headshot of Gene McNary...Immigration Chief.

                  Copyright 1989 St. Louis Post-Dispatch, Inc.


                              221 of 268 DOCUMENTS

                       St. Louis Post-Dispatch (Missouri)

               November 12, 1989, SUNDAY, LATE FIVE STAR Edition

SOUTH AFRICA IS TRYING TO RECRUIT EAST GERMAN PROFESSIONALS

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 8A

LENGTH: 347 words


CAPE TOWN, South Africa - South Africa, chronically short of skilled labor, has
moved to recruit East Germans flooding to the West.  South Africa has placed
advertisements in West German newspapers offering jobs to skilled refugees from
the East, and 15 East German refugees have already replied to the South African
Consulate in Munich, West Germany, consular spokesman Jan van Zyl told the Cape
Times. ''He predicted that the interest in immigrating to South Africa would
pick up after Christmas, when the euphoria of being in the West would start to
fade, as refugees began looking for employment,'' the Cape Times reported,
quoting Andre Brink, a spokesman at the South African Embassy in Bonn, West
Germany.  The ads target 34 types of professionals, including doctors,
engineers, architects, nurses and secretaries.  Gene Louw, South Africa's
minister of internal affairs, told the newspaper that the government had
discussed at ''a high level'' about recruiting the East Germans.  A similar
drive during the early 1980s attracted hundreds of Polish refugees, fleeing the
turmoil in their home country.  South Africa has experienced a steady brain
drain for more than 10 years, as thousands of young professionals immigrated to
the United States, Western Europe and Australia.

LOAD-DATE: October 27, 1993

LANGUAGE: English

                  Copyright 1989 St. Louis Post-Dispatch, Inc.


                              222 of 268 DOCUMENTS

                       St. Louis Post-Dispatch (Missouri)

                 November 16, 1989, THURSDAY, FIVE STAR Edition

SWEARING-IN SET TODAY FOR MCNARY

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 8A

LENGTH: 147 words


Gene McNary, who resigned last month as St. Louis County executive, will is tobe
sworn in this afternoon as chief of the federal Immigration and Naturalization
Service. Attorney General Dick Thornburgh is scheduled to administer the oath of
office in a ceremony in the immigration agency building in downtown Washington.
President George Bush nominated McNary for the job in August and the Senate
confirmed McNary on Oct. 24. McNary resigned his county position and took up the
immigration agency reins the day after.

LOAD-DATE: October 27, 1993

LANGUAGE: English

                  Copyright 1989 St. Louis Post-Dispatch, Inc.


                              223 of 268 DOCUMENTS

                       St. Louis Post-Dispatch (Missouri)

                 November 18, 1989, SATURDAY, FIVE STAR Edition

ELLIS ISLAND: IMAGES REACH ACROSS TIME

SECTION: EVERYDAY MAGAZINE; Pg. 5D

LENGTH: 1187 words


ELLIS ISLAND. Just the name stirs the heart and the memory of most Americans.
The ancestors of nearly half the people living in the United States today came
through the immigration port of Ellis Island. The fate of some 12 million people
was decided during the years it operated as the main doorway to America, from
1892 to 1954.  Ellis Island is a place bound up in the lives and experiences of
a nation.  Its importance goes beyond place to become a complex of ideas and
symbols.  The variety and intricacy of Ellis Island and its meaning for
Americans are suggested in a new book, ''Ellis Island: Echoes From a Nation's
Past'' (152 pages, Aperture, $39.95). It uses works from several sources, from
historical to contemporary, in words and pictures. The subject of Ellis Island
is so loaded with memories and meanings that a single writer could not tell its
story, nor one photographer capture its image.  Now controlled by the National
Park Service, the island is being developed as a monument to America's immigrant
history.  The book uses photos made during the 62 years of the island's service
as an immigration center. It includes documentation of the island and building
complex as it existed in its years of abandonment. And it offers current photos
that include personal, artistic responses to the island's atmosphere made during
the reconstruction period.  Some of the photos in the book were made during the
island's years of abandonment, partly as a project of teacher Klaus A. Schnitzer
and his photography students at Montclair State College in New Jersey. Since
1983, a number of contemporary photographers have been invited to photograph the
island, to contribute to a collective statement about the island and its meaning
today.  The historical photos alone would be enough to carry most books. Among
the 46 photographers represented in the book, the names of pioneers Erich
Salomon and Lewis Hine stand out. So does Alfred Eisenstadt, a Life staffer who
seems to have covered everything in the world during his working lifetime.  The
book inevitably becomes personal. The faces, the body language, reach across
time and touch the reader where the grandparent stories live, deep in private
recall. The Czechoslovakian grandmother could be your own, or mine.  The Italian
man, the Turk, the Belgians, the woman from Guadeloupe - they all have family
references, neighborhood associations.  The stories and the memories aren't
always pleasant. There were reasons why it was nicknamed ''The Island of
Tears.'' There are tales of families torn asunder, of unacceptable arrivals
returned to sender, deported to the home country.  The text describes the
conditions: money hoarded for steerage passage, sleeping on canvas cots in
triple tiers, seemingly endless waiting in painfully long lines, fear of
rejection by indifferent bureaucrats speaking some language other than one's
own. Some of that anxiety, echoes of oppression in the home country and fear of
the unknown in the new one, show through in the faces in the photos.  It's
powerful stuff. It's emotionally loaded. It makes for strong photography.  Some
of the photographers chose a documentary approach, photographing rooms and
artifacts, allowing the details to tell their own tale. A plate covered with
barnacles, a broken metal comb, rusted kitchen equipment all tell the story of
abandonment.  A single simple document can reveal a vast chapter in the life of
a family: From the county of Madison, the state of Illinois, comes an affidavit
of sponsorship from a family member. Frank Mack of Edwardsville swore in a
notarized statement in January 1921, that he was engaged in the junk business;
that his weekly income did not exceed $40; and that until they could provide for
themselves he would be responsible for brothers Chaim and Anzel, sister Rachel,
and mother Dwaira Mack; brother- in-law Hershel Goldr ing, his wife, Tarbe, and
6-year old nephew David Goldring.  The photos on the page with the affidavit
superimpose family photos on scenes in the abandoned Ellis Is land, ghost images
from the past. The pho tos were made by Nan cy Goldring.  The reconstructed
Ellis Island is expected to draw 1.5 million visi tors each year. The facilities
will include photographic interpretation, including an exhibition of the
material included in the Aper The facilities will also include an exhibition of
work by photographers Joe Greenberg, Shirley Burton and William Clifft. St.
Louis photographer R. L. McCowan has been commissioned to produce 18 mural-sized
carbro prints of their work, to hang in a special two-room show.  Carbro
printing is a process that reproduces the original, conventional black-and-white
print with a carbon pigment that carries rich, deep blacks, subtle tones and a
permanent image not subject to fading. McCowan has re-created the old carbro
process, and is doing the printing in cooperation with Eastman Kodak and the
National Geographic organization.

LOAD-DATE: October 27, 1993

LANGUAGE: English

GRAPHIC: Photo; PHOTO...Photo courtesy of Brown Brothers...Immigrants leaving
Ellis Island, from ''Ellis Island: Echoes From a Nation's Past.''

                  Copyright 1989 St. Louis Post-Dispatch, Inc.


                              224 of 268 DOCUMENTS

                       St. Louis Post-Dispatch (Missouri)

                 November 19, 1989, SUNDAY, THREE STAR Edition

MANY LATINS MAY FLEE TO U.S.

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 11A

LENGTH: 680 words


HARLINGEN, Texas (AP) - Immigration lawyers say that the raging civil war in El
Salvador and political uncertainty in Nicaragua soon will drive thousands of
refugees toward Texas.  But U.S. immigration officials say they have no evidence
of an impending exodus from Central America. Southern Texas is the most-common
crossing point for Central Americans.  More than 500 people have died and 1,000
have been wounded in El Salvador since leftist guerrillas launched an offensive
last weekend that has crippled the capital, San Salvador.  Jose Rafael Romero, a
Salvadoran seeking asylum in Harlingen, said he knew of many more Salvadorans
headed north.  ''I spoke with my family Saturday on the telephone, and the
borders were full of people leaving, trying to come here and ask for political
asylum, '' he said.  Thousands displaced from the fighting will head for the
United States, said Mark Schneider, a lawyer with the Proyecto Libertad legal
aid office for Central Americans in Harlingen.  ''The people who are in the
middle at this point are going to be further intimidated and trying to leave,''
Schneider said. ''The war has come out from underground. This is full-fledged
war.'' Nicaraguans wary of violence and uncertainty surrounding the national
elections set for February also are leaving, said Linda Yanez, an immigration
lawyer in the border city of Brownsville, Texas.  ''A lot of them have been
telling me that their families are packing up and getting ready to leave,''
Yanez said. ''There's a lot of uncertainty. I think there's a feeling that they
need to get out before the election.'' The lapse of a cease-fire Nov. 1 between
the Nicaraguan government and Contra rebels also could drive people out, she
said.  But the Immigration and Naturalization Service and Border Patrol say they
have no evidence of large numbers of Central Americans headed their way.  ''No
matter what happens in Central America, the immigrant-rights advocates predict
an increase in immigrants,'' Duke Austin, INS spokesman in Washington, said last
week.  Added David Trevino, Border Patrol supervisory intel ligence agent for
the sector covering the southernmost tip of Texas: ''We don't see any buildup as
such into Mexico or along the Mexican border.'' Earlier this year, the INS saw
hundreds of Central Americans present themselves each day to apply for political
asylum. Central Americans pouring across the border camped in a tent city and in
abandoned buildings in the Brownsville area.

LOAD-DATE: October 27, 1993

LANGUAGE: English

                  Copyright 1989 St. Louis Post-Dispatch, Inc.


                              225 of 268 DOCUMENTS

                       St. Louis Post-Dispatch (Missouri)

                 December 12, 1989, TUESDAY, THREE STAR Edition

RETURN OF THE SWEAT SHOP?

SECTION: EDITORIAL; Pg. 2C

LENGTH: 440 words


U.S. District Judge Gerhard Gesell has rejected organized labor's effort to
block the Labor Department's rules to let apparel workers do work at home.  Now,
the government must make sure the new rules are followed closely. Without such
monitoring, the exploitation of immigrants, women and children that unions
feared, could easily occur.  The new rules would affect workers in five areas -
gloves and mittens, handkerchiefs, buttons and buckles, some types of jewelry
and embroidery.  Fearing the return of unacceptable conditions for workers who
did their jobs at home - particularly now that a new wave of immigrant workers
may be ripe for exploitation - the International Ladies Garment Workers' Union
and two other unions filed suit last January. They said the Labor Department
does not have safeguards in place to prevent violations of laws regulating child
labor, the minimum wage, workplace safety and other areas.  Judge Gesell upheld
the Labor Department, saying its regulation was a reasoned approach to the
issue. He acknowledged that problems many years ago that had led to a ban on
home work in the five industries involved have not disappeared. But, he said,
the Labor Department had made a good case to show that by requiring companies to
gain certification before allowing home work, it could help prevent future
abuses of the law.  In their suit, the unions said that an earlier policy
allowing home work in the knitted outerwear industry had been poorly supervised.
For the Labor Department to justify Judge Gesell's trust in its ability to
protect home workers adequately, it will have to do a better job than it has
done so far.

LOAD-DATE: October 27, 1993

LANGUAGE: English

                  Copyright 1989 St. Louis Post-Dispatch, Inc.


                              226 of 268 DOCUMENTS

                       St. Louis Post-Dispatch (Missouri)

                  December 15, 1989, FRIDAY, FIVE STAR Edition

BRITAIN CRITICIZED OVER REPATRIATION

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 17A

LENGTH: 187 words


STRASBOURG, France (AP) - The European Parliament urged Britain on Thursday
tostop repatriating Vietnamese refugees from Hong Kong and blamed Britain for
not generating international support to deal with the influx of refugees. The
Parliament also said the United States, which fought the Vietnam War, had a
special responsibility to help settle the refugees.  On Tuesday, the first 51
Vietnamese were flown to Hanoi. Britain is determined to return 44,000 of the
would-be immigrants from Communist Vietnam, arguing that they are economic
migrants, not political refugees.  The European Parliament, comprising 518
members from all 12 European Community nations, said the distinction between
''political'' and ''economic'' refugees was ''arbitrary in the context of
Vietnam.''

LOAD-DATE: October 27, 1993

LANGUAGE: English

                  Copyright 1989 St. Louis Post-Dispatch, Inc.


                              227 of 268 DOCUMENTS

                       St. Louis Post-Dispatch (Missouri)

               December 17, 1989, SUNDAY, LATE FIVE STAR Edition

THEY BLESS AMERICA...A MELTING POT OF ST. LOUIS CHURCHES

BYLINE: John J. Archibald Of the Post-Dispatch Staff

SECTION: PD MAGAZINE; Pg. 8

LENGTH: 2734 words


AS immigrants from foreign lands settled in the United States in the 19th
century, they often constructed a church in their community, to be used both for
prayer and as a place for socializing and retaining some aspects of their
heritage.  In time, as neighborhoods changed and the status of the members
evolved from ''greenhorns'' to prosperous citizens, many moved away. The places
of worship frequently survived, however, because of the tenacity of those who
remained and the loyalty of those who left.  St. Louis has a wide assortment of
ethnic churches. Even a quick sampling discloses some uncommon characteristics,
including A parish that is named for an unknown ''saint.'' A congregation that
celebrates midnight Mass on Christmas Eve by singing ''Happy Birthday'' to the
Christ Child.  A church built with bricks made from clay in the churchyard.  An
altar illuminated by dozens of light bulbs, apparently to demonstrate that the
members could afford what was then an extravagance.  Each place of worship,
whether erected by its occupants or adapted after being used by another
denomination, shows evidence of its origins as well as the religious beliefs of
its present members.  Kirkwood Korean Church of the Nazarene...  MANY
present-day immigrants pursue their religious beliefs together, just as did new
Americans of another century. They establish their churches where they live,
which, today, often is in the suburbs. Among them is the Kirkwood Korean Church
of the Nazarene, at 11036 Manchester Road. The Rev. Young Joon has been the
minister of Nazarene since June, after serving a congregation in San Jose,
Calif. The minister has a limited command of English, and the youngest of his
nine children, a daughter, Ui Young, acts as the church spokesperson. She
attends Kirkwood High.  ''All of our family was born in South Korea,'' she said.
''I think about half of Koreans are Christia n.  ''My father is a graduate of
Nazarene College, in Seoul, and has been a minister for 30 years.'' A Bible
rests on the altar, on which are carved the words, ''This Do In Remembrance Of
Me.'' A flag of South Korea stands alongside a United States flag at the front
of the small church. There are about 50 members, according to Young.  ''Our
observance of Christmas is similar to that of other Christian churches,'' she
said. ''We have a Christmas play, and we too exchange gifts.'' St. John
Nepomuk...  IT SURPRISES many to learn that the first Czech Catholic church in
North America was established in St. Louis, not the Chicago area where so many
Czechs later settled. But in 1854, when political turmoil and crop failure in
Bohemia, in southeastern Europe, caused a migration to America, the initial
group came through New Orleans and settled in St. Louis.  The newcomers, called
Czecho-Slovaks, built a wooden church at 1625 South 11th Street, which they
named in honor of St. John Nepomuk. A brick structure was erected in 1870 on the
same site, but it had to be rebuilt after the tornado of '96.  One of the
traditions at St. John concerns Holy Week, when a tomb in one of the side altars
is left empty and open to public view from the evening of Holy Thursday until 3
p.m on Good Friday. At that time, a life-size statue of Jesus is placed in the
tomb.  After Mass on Holy Saturday, the prone form of Jesus is removed from the
sepulcher and a standing figure is placed on top, symbolizing the risen Christ.
Statues of angels occupy the tomb.  Prior to midnight Mass on Christmas Eve, an
infant Jesus figure will be carried in a procession through the church to a
manger. At that point the infant will be handed to St. John's pastor, the Rev.
Joseph Portucheck, who will place the figure in a crib. Those attending the Mass
will then sing ''Happy Birthday.'' Holy Trinity Serbian Eastern Orthodox...  THE
IMMIGRATION of Serbs from what now is Yugoslavia to the United States began
about a century ago, and St. Louis was among the industrial centers to which
they came. Most of the newcomers belonged to the Eastern Orthodox church, and on
Aug. 1, 1909, all of the Serbs in St. Louis were invited to a meeting at which
the Orthodox Church-School Congregation of Holy Trinity was established.  A
building at Eighth Street and Barry Avenue was purchased in 1911 and was used
until the present Holy Trinity Church, at 1910 McNair Avenue on the South Side,
was completed in 1929. The Very Reverend Father Radomir Chkautovich has been
pastor since 1973.  The presence of an anti-religious Communist government in
Yugoslavia since World War II led to new immigrations.  ''I escaped from
Yugoslavia in 1963,'' Chkautovich said, ''but it was five years before I could
get my wife, Vera, and three children to the United States. I don't have the
words to thank the Lord for the freedom I enjoy here.'' A set of Royal Doors
conceals the most sacred area of the Holy Trinity altar from worshippers except
during services. The congregation has 350 families. The relics of a saint -
identity unknown - are sealed under the altar stone.  Christmas will be a little
late for the Eastern Orthodox faithful. Because the denomination follows the
Julian Calendar, the birth of Jesus will be celebrated Jan. 7.  ''Actually,
we're lucky,'' Chkautovich said. ''While we won't have a special service on Dec.
25, our people will exchange gifts just as other Americans do, so we'll have two
Christmases.'' Saints Cyril and Methodius...  THE STRUCTURE at 2011 North 11th
Street dedicated to Saints Cyril and Methodius is listed in the phone directory
under ''P,'' as in Polish National Catholic Church. The denomination originated
not in Poland, however, but in Scranton, Pa.  Tom Bratkowski, a professor at
Maryville College and a member of the governing committee at SS Cyril and
Methodius, provided a history of the PNCC.  ''In the 1890s, the Polish Catholics
near Scranton, mostly coal miners, felt that they were being discriminated
against by the Roman Catholic hierarchy, who were mostly of German or Irish
descent,'' Bratkowski said.  ''In 1897 they formed an independent church, and
they quickly gained followers in other Polish-American communities in the U.S.,
in Canada and Poland itself.'' Saints Cyril and Methodius church is named in
honor of two ninth century Slavic apostles who helped spread Christianity in
eastern Europe. The building was erected for the North Presbyterian congregation
in 1857 and purchased by the Polish group in 1907.  The parish is operated under
a democratic system, in which the members own the church property and handle all
finances. This relieves Father Andrew Bako, 32, the Polish-born pastor, of the
chore of fund-raising. Under PNCC law, priests are permitted to marry, and Bako
lives in the rectory with his wife, Alicja.  When the church was redesigned for
PNCC use, numerous light bulbs were installed on the altar and near the statues.
Bratkowski said that it is generally beli eved that the early parishioners did
this as a point of pride as well as illumination, to show that they could afford
what was then considered a luxury.  St. Mary of Victories...  'A FLAT ROOF is
probably the most unusual feature of our church,'' said the Rev. Joseph Somos,
pastor of the Roman Catholic church at 744 South Gratiot Street for 11 years.
''We believe the intent was to make the building seem more homelike. Catholic
churches usually had a vaulted ceiling.'' St. Mary of Victories was built by
German immigrants in 1844. The church was damaged by the tornado of 1896, but
survived, even though it was built with bricks that were fired on the spot. The
quality of local clay was not good, and many bricks are crumbling.  ''The double
choir loft also is rare,'' Somos said. ''In the 1870s, the Sisters of St. Mary,
who operated an eight-room hospital adjoining the church, attended Mass in a
separate loft because they worked with sick people.'' In 1957, as the
construction of the Jefferson National Expansion Memorial forced many residents
to leave the neighborhood, the church was transferred by Cardinal Joseph Ritter
to members of the former St. Stephen of Hungary parish.  Many refugees from the
ill-fated Hungarian uprising of 1956 had settled in the area.  The church now
has 120 members, who commute from as far away as St.  Charles. Services are
conducted in Hungarian at 9:45 a.m. each Sunday and in English at 11.  A
highlight of the church's history was a visit by Cardinal Joseph Mindszenty, the
exiled primate of Hungary, in 1974. A plaque in the sanctuary commemorates the
event.  The origin of the name of the 144-year-old church is a mystery.  ''There
is no record of a 'St. Mary of Victories,' no feast day in the church
calendar,'' said Father Somos, smiling. ''We may never know whom the German
parishioners had in mind.'' Trinity Lutheran...  IN FEBRUARY 1837, a gallant 600
immigrants from Germany landed in New Orleans and sailed up the Mississippi
River, headed for Perry County, Mo., where research had determined that
inexpensive land was available for establishing a Lutheran church.  Cold weather
persuaded the group to stay in St. Louis until spring, and by the time the snow
melted, some of the newcomers had jobs and were reluctant to move on. They
worshipped in the basement of Christ Church Cathedral, then at Third and
Chestnut streets, until they founded Trinity Lutheran Church in 1842.  The
interior of the church, at 1805 South Eighth Street, has a startlingly modern
look, the result of a series of renovations. The seating area slants down toward
the altar, theater-style, and the pews are curved so that worshippers don't have
to turn their heads to watch the services.  Wall-to-wall carpeting adds to the
feeling of elegance.  The congregation is part of the Lutheran Church-Missouri
Synod and the pastor is the Rev. Samuel Goltermann.  ''This church had the
tallest spire in the city until the 1896 tornado,'' said administrative
assistant Mark Schaefering, ''but the storm tore off 25 feet.'' The tornado
virtually destroyed the building, which originally had seating for 1,200 people.
The rebuilt version accommodates 750.  Of the church's 350 members, only a few
dozen live in the neighborhood, and about 20 percent live in south St. Louis.
''This is a proud, active congregation,'' Schaefering said. ''It was members of
Trinity who founded Lutheran Hospital and Concordia Publications.''

LOAD-DATE: October 27, 1993

LANGUAGE: English

GRAPHIC: Photo; PHOTOS (COLOR) By Scott Dine...TOP: The Kirkwood Korean Chuch of
the Nazarene. ABOVE: The steeple of St. John Nepomuk Catholic Church, with
Southwestern Bell's downtown office in the background. PHOTO (COLOR) By Scott
Dine...A view of the hand-carved wooden statues of Czech heroes and saints in
St. John Nepomuk Catholic Church. PHOTO (COLOR) By Scott Dine...RIGHT: The
steeple of Holy Trinity Serbian Eastern Orthodox Church reflects its Slavic
origins. PHOTOS (COLOR) By Scott Dine...RIGHT: A member of the choir at Saints
Cyril and Methodius Church, which is part of the Polish National Catholic
Church. RIGHT: The altar at Saints Cyril and Methodius. PHOTO (COLOR) By Scott
Dine...The holy water font at Saints Cyril and Methodius. PHOTOS (COLOR) By
Scott Dine...LEFT: The sanctuary in St. Mary of Victories Catholic Church, with
its original paintings and ceiling design. The church was built in 1844. ABOVE:
The pews in St. Mary of Victories are also originals. PHOTOS (COLOR) By Scott
Dine...RIGHT: A Nativity scene at Trinity Lutheran Church. BELOW: A baptismal
font that dates from 1864, one of the few objects that survived the tornado that
heavily damaged Trinity Church in 1896. PHOTO (COLOR) By Scott Dine...COVER
PHOTO: The entrance to Saints Cyril and Methodius, a Polish National Catholic
church.

                  Copyright 1989 St. Louis Post-Dispatch, Inc.


                              228 of 268 DOCUMENTS

                       St. Louis Post-Dispatch (Missouri)

               December 24, 1989, SUNDAY, LATE FIVE STAR Edition

RETURN TRIP SOUGHT TO JOIN REBELS' FIGHT

BYLINE: Mark Schlinkmann Of the Post-Dispatch Staff

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 5B

LENGTH: 840 words


Radu Rosca and Marcel Boariu worked hard to get into the United States. But now,
the two Romanian immigrants are hard at work trying to get back home - to fight
with the rebels against those still resisting the overthrow of President Nicolae
Ceausescu.  ''I want to go there and I must fight,'' said Rosca, 29, who arrived
here about three months ago after leaving Romania in 1987.  ''I can't stay here
(now if I know my parents (and my family are there.  This is something I want to
do.'' Aided by their newfound friends here, Rosca and Boariu, 21 - both of south
St. Louis - began efforts Saturday to return home.  Marvin Moehle, a translator
for the International Institute of Metropolitan St. Louis, said he has been
trying - unsuccessfully so far - to cut through red tape with immigration
officials to get the two ba ck to Europe as soon as possible. The key is that
they need a U.S. travel permit because they are not yet U.S. citizens.  Moehle
said also that friends of the two are trying to raise money to pay for the cost
of tickets for each to fly to Paris, where Moehle said Romanian emigres from
around Europe are gathering.  Rosca said the emigres in Paris then plan to take
cars or trucks east to Romania, where they hope to join anti-Ceausescu forces.
Rosca and Boariu were interviewed Saturday night at St. Thomas the Apostle
Orthodox Church, Romanian Diocese. It is at 6501 Nottingham Avenue in south St.
Louis. The two were joined by local Romanian-Americans who are both jubilant and
concerned about the revolt.  Earlier Saturday night, about 10 of the group
braved the cold to hold a candlelight protest outside City Hall downtown in
support of the Romanian rebels. George Matei, who said his wife and daughter are
still in Romania, carried a sign proclaiming, ''We'll Never Forget Those Who
Died for Freedom in Romania.'' Father Dimitrie Vincent, pastor at St. Thomas,
said that local Romanian-Americans are raising money for medical supplies and
other humanitarian aid for the rebels and those caught up in the cross-fire.
Donations can be sent to the Romanian Relief Fund, Committee for Free Romania,
St. Thomas the Apostle Romanian Orthodox Church, 6501 Nottingham Avenue, St.
Louis, Mo., 63109; or to Red Cross Relief for Romania, P.O. Box 37243,
Washington, D.C. 20013.  Several St. Louis Romanian-Americans planned to drive
to Washington to participate in a demonstration Sunday, Moehle said.  Rosca said
he had been trying in vain all week to reach his mother by telephone in
Bucharest, the Romanian capital, but finally did so early Saturday.  He said his
mother was worried because his father had left to bring food to rebel fighters
and had not returned for 10 to 12 hours.  Boariu said he talked briefly Tuesday
by phone with his mother at his family's home in Timisoara, the birthplace of
the revolt. ''His brother is in the hospital,'' Rosca said.  Rosca said he had
been allowed to leave Romania after he had sent protest telegrams to government
officials and had been beaten with sticks by security police.  Boariu, who had
been employed as a truck driver, said he escaped when he left his truck near the
Yugoslav border.  The two were at the church ''because we're frustrated,'' Rosca
said. ''We want to do something.''

LOAD-DATE: October 27, 1993

LANGUAGE: English

GRAPHIC: Photo; PHOTO by Wendi Brown/Post-Dispatch ... George Matei of south St.
Louis lights a candle outside City Hall Saturday night during a demonstration in
support of pro-democracy forces in Romania. Matei said his wife is in Romania.

                  Copyright 1989 St. Louis Post-Dispatch, Inc.


                              229 of 268 DOCUMENTS

                       St. Louis Post-Dispatch (Missouri)

                December 27, 1989, WEDNESDAY, FIVE STAR Edition

REFUGEES DOUBT NEW RULE

BYLINE: Ann Scales Cobbs Of the Post-Dispatch Staff

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 12A

LENGTH: 574 words


Despite the reported execution of ousted Romanian president Nicolae Ceausescu,
some Romanian immigrants here expressed little confidence Tuesday that the
nation had rid itself of Stalinst hardliners.  ''The new government - they have
some of the same members they had before in the Ceausescu government,'' said
George Matei.  His friend, Toni Popescu, added, ''Maybe they are good now. We
don't know.  It's just the fact that they were in the old government. ...''
Matei, Popescu and three other Romanian refugees living in the St. Louis area
returned Tuesday evening from an anti-Ceausescu rally held Christmas Day in
Washington.  They gathered at Cafe Romania in south St. Louis - the only
Romanian restaurant in the area and one which Popescu's father, Steriu, co-owns.
Matei said he came to America in 1985, after being jailed for ''1 1/2-years and
six days'' in Romania for having a picture of Ronald Reagan and an American flag
in his apartment.  He and Popescu disagree over whether Ceausescu really was
executed. Matei said he was unsure.  Meanwhile, two other Romanian refugees who
are trying to get home to check on their families have moved a step closer to
their goal.  The two, Radu Rosca and Marcel Boariu, got visas Tuesday to
re-enter the United States after their trip. Visas are needed because they are
not U.S.  citizens.  Rosca said they will leave St. Louis early today or
Thursday for Chicago, where they plan to join 100 to 150 other Romanians in
seeking travel help from a Romanian church. Rosca said he had been unable to get
through to his mother in the capital of Bucharest since Saturday. At that time,
she was worried because his father had left to take food to rebel fighters and
had not returned.  ''We have heard nothing since,'' Rosca said. ''The line is
very busy. I try every day, eight hours every night.'' Boariu's brother is in
the hospital after having been shot during a demonstration in Romania.  Marvin
Moehle of Granite City, who works for a law firm and is friend and translator
for Rosca and Boariu, said he planned to drive them to Chicago.  ''They do have
enough for an airplane ticket,'' he said. ''But they want money for medical
supplies. They know there is support here from America, and they don't want to
go empty-handed.''

LOAD-DATE: October 27, 1993

LANGUAGE: English

                  Copyright 1989 St. Louis Post-Dispatch, Inc.


                              230 of 268 DOCUMENTS

                       St. Louis Post-Dispatch (Missouri)

                   January 8, 1990, MONDAY, FIVE STAR Edition

MAKING GOOD: D.C. DRAWS ON BISTATE AREA

BYLINE: Robert L. Koenig Post-Dispatch Washington Bureau

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 1A

LENGTH: 1360 words


WASHINGTON - Whether the issue is immigration or intelligence, airports or
airwaves, Missourians and Illinoisans are making waves in Washington in the
administration of President George Bush.  Since Bush took the inaugural oath a
year ago, a steady stream of federal appointees from Missouri and Illinois have
landed or kept top jobs in the federal bureaucracy in Washington.  Those
officials with Midwestern roots include some of the nation's most influential
policy-makers in the fields of transportation, intelligence, communications,
immigration, airports, international development, land management and labor
relations.  The list has grown longer by the week: Leonard L. Griggs Jr., former
director of Lambert Field, begins work today as the Federal Aviation
Administration's associate administrator for airports.  His appointment was made
official Friday.  Robert G. Harmon, director of the Missouri Department of
Health, said last week that he had been chosen to head the federal Health
Resources and Services Administration. The agency seeks to improve health care
for people who lack full access to medical services.  Julian De La Rosa,
secretary of the St. Louis Police Board, said Thursday that he would be
nominated to be the Labor Department's inspector general - an appointment
requiring Senate confirmation.  Those three would join what one U.S. Senate aide
called ''a startlingly large number'' of officials from Missouri and Illinois
with influential positions in Bush's administration. They include: William H.
Webster, a former federal appeals court judge from St. Louis who Bush kept on as
director of the Central Intelligence Agency. Webster was head of the Federal
Bureau of Investigation for several years before he took the top CIA job.
Samuel K. Skinner, a lawyer from Illinois who is Bush's secretary of
transportation. Skinner brought along a group of transportation experts from
Illinois to fill key staff positions.  Gene McNary, the former St. Louis County
Executive who began work in October as the nation's top immigration official,
commissioner of the Immigration and Nationalization Service.  Alfred C. Sikes, a
former broadcast executive from southern Missouri who became chairman of the
Federal Communications Commission last summer. Sikes already has generated
controversy over his crackdown on what he considers to be indecency on the
airwaves.  Jerry M. Hunter, the former director of the Missouri Department of
Labor, began work last month as general counsel for the National Labor Relations
Board in Washington.  Mark L. Edelman, a native of St. Louis, has been the
acting head of the Agency for International Development since last summer.
Edelman will return to the agency's No. 2 job when the new administrator gets
Senate confirmation.  Edelman, a former aide to Sen. John C. Danforth, R-Mo.,
has been acting administrator since the death last summer of Alan Woods, the
former head of the agency. Woods was a native of Mexico, Mo.  Frederick T.
Goldberg, a former St. Louisan, became commissioner of the Internal Revenue
Service last year.  Ted Sanders, the former Illinois state school
superintendent, is undersecretary of the U.S. Department of Education.  David C.
O'Neal, a native of Belleville and former lieutenant governor of Illinois, began
work this fall as the assistant secretary of Interior for Land Minerals and
Management.  In that post, O'Neal has a key voice in supervising the use of -
and mining rights for - 700 million acres of federal land, as well as matters
relating to on- and off-shore oil leases. He held two other federal jobs in
Washington before getting the new post.  ''There's a social group of Illinois
alumni who get together here in Washington every once in a while,'' O'Neal said
Friday. One of his key staffers, Vicki Dixon, hails from Shelbyville, Ill., he
said.  Clarence Thomas, formerly a lawyer in St. Louis, has been nominated to be
a federal appeals court judge in Washington. Thomas, chairman of the U.S.  Equal
Employment Opportunity Commission, is a former aide to Danforth.  Rep. Jack
Buechner, R-Kirkwood, said that Bush's ''family roots and political support'' in
Missouri - and as well as his friendship with Illinois Gov. James Thompson - had
had a lot to do with the number of top federal posts going to officials from
those states.  ''Jim Thompson was one of Bush's leading backers in the
presidential race, and both Bond and Danforth worked hard for Bush,'' Buechner
said Friday.  ''There's no doubt that Bush is loyal to his backers and rewards
them.'' In addition, Buechner and other observers pointed out that Bush's
brother (William H.T. ''Bucky'' Bush) and cousin (Herbert Walker) live in the
St.  Louis area and may have played a role in bringing McNary and other nominees
to the president's attention.  Another factor in several of the Missouri
appointments has been Danforth's seniority on the Senate Commerce Committee,
where he is the ranking Republican. Danforth was a key backer of both Sikes and
Griggs - both of whose agencies are overseen by the Commerce panel.  Although
several officials from Missouri and Illinois have put down roots in Washington,
a number still have houses or keep in close touch with friends back home.  ''I
consider myself a Missourian, after all these years here,'' Griggs said Friday,
as he prepared to travel to Washington to take his new job at the FAA.  ''We'll
be back and forth a lot.''

LOAD-DATE: October 14, 1993

LANGUAGE: English

GRAPHIC: Photo; PHOTO HEADSHOT (COLOR) of Griggs... PHOTO HEADSHOT (COLOR) of De
La Rosa... PHOTO HEADSHOT (COLOR) of Harmon... PHOTO HEADSHOT of Webster...
PHOTO HEADSHOT of Skinner... PHOTO HEADSHOT of McNary... PHOTO HEADSHOT OF
Sikes... PHOTO HEADSHOT Of Hunter... PHOTO HEADSHOT Of Goldberg...  PHOTO
HEADSHOT of Sanders... PHOTO HEADSHOT of O'Neal... PHOTO HEADSHOT of Thomas...

                  Copyright 1990 St. Louis Post-Dispatch, Inc.


                              231 of 268 DOCUMENTS

                       St. Louis Post-Dispatch (Missouri)

                  January 12, 1990, FRIDAY, FIVE STAR Edition

MCNARY ORDER TO HELP SOVIET JEWS

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 15A

LENGTH: 266 words


WASHINGTON - Gene McNary, commissioner of the U.S. Immigration and
Naturalization Service, has instructed the agency's field offices abroad to take
steps that would make it easier for Soviet Jews to resettle in the United
States.  A spokesman for the immigration service said McNary approved the new
guidelines shortly before he left Monday to visit the service's offices in
Moscow and Rome to see how the agency can speed up the processing of emigration
applications there.  McNary issued the guidelines in response to a law approved
by Congress last year instructing the U.S. government to make it easier for
refugee status to be granted to Soviet Jews, Soviet Evangelical Christians and
other potential targets for persecution in the Soviet Union, Vietnam, Laos and
Cambodia.  McNary said the new guidelines ''will facilitate access of certain
groups of refugee applicants to the U.S. resettlement program, and provide INS
officers with enhanced sensitivity to these claims . . .'' SOURCE: Post-Dispatch
Washington Bureau

LOAD-DATE: October 14, 1993

LANGUAGE: English

                  Copyright 1990 St. Louis Post-Dispatch, Inc.


                              232 of 268 DOCUMENTS

                       St. Louis Post-Dispatch (Missouri)

                January 21, 1990, SUNDAY, LATE FIVE STAR Edition

MCNARY COMPARES NEW, OLD JOBS

BYLINE: Robert L. Koenig Post-Dispatch Washington Bureau

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 7D

LENGTH: 974 words


WASHINGTON - When Gene McNary takes on the bureaucracy at the Immigration and
Naturalization Service, he says, it's a bit like fighting the ''kings and
kingdoms'' of St. Louis County.  So far, in his efforts to centralize the
Immigration Service, McNary has ruffled some feathers at the agency's regional
offices - just as his attempts to consolidate governments in St. Louis County
made him enemies.  ''Obviously, I didn't have too many friends - because there's
a lot of kings and kingdoms'' in St. Louis County, McNary told a group last week
as he described the county's 90 municipalities.  ''None of them liked me,''
quipped McNary, who was St. Louis County executive before he took the top
Immigration Service job last fall.  ''And so it was time to get out of town. And
I did,'' he said.  But McNary is hoping that his battles with the service's
regional offices m will have a better ending than his bitter disputes in St.
Louis County.  Before his arrival in October, McNary contended, ''everybody did
his own thing'' at agency's regional and district offices. The agency, based in
Washington, has about 14,000 employees.  ''It's an impossible job when we're
divided up - four regions going their way and 33 districts doing their own
thing,'' McNary said at a news conference on Thursday.  ''That's as bad as St.
Louis County, with its 90 municipalities. I didn't think that anything could be
that bad,'' he said.  Quips like that have made St. Louis County something of a
running joke among the dozen or so journalists who regularly cover immigration
issues and who attend McNary's press conferences. ''I have the impression of St.
Louis County as a patchwork of kingdoms, like Germany before Bismarck,'' said
one reporter.  While McNary bears little resemblance to Otto von Bismarck - the
Prussian chancellor who united Germany a century ago - he does share a tendency
toward centralizing power.  McNary first made the agency's regional workers well
aware of his presence in November, when he barred all agency district and
regional employees from talking to reporters without approval from the agency's
Washington headquarters.  At Thursday's news conference, reporters pointed out
that a regional agency administrator in Texas seemed to lend his support to
anti-immigrant advertisements by a group called FAIR, the Federation for
American Immigration Reform.  Asked whether he approved, McNary joked in mock
anger: ''Are you suggesting I might not have this agency speaking with one
voice?'' McNary declined to comment on the FAIR flap, but said: ''I think
regions are aware of us now . . . At least they know that we're here, and we are
going to have policy established from here.'' ''Here'' is the agency
headquarters in a nondescript federal building in a run-down section of
Washington. The building has little of the antiseptic cleanliness of the St.
Louis County Government Center.  jwp qm w McNary says he wants to encourage
greater levels of legal immigration into the United States, but crack down on
the illegal flow of aliens. He said 608,000 legal immigrants and 100,000
refugees entered the United States last year.  McNary said the agency and
Congress, which is developing a new immigration law, face three major policy
questions: Making sure that the legal immigrants ''represent the best balance of
different nationalities, cultures and skills.'' Dealing ''with the growing
backlog of visa applicants.'' He said 2.4 million persons abroad were on the
waiting list for visas to enter the United States as workers or potential
immigrants.  Handling ''rapid increases in refugee admissions, without straining
our limited resources.'' Each refugee gets a ''resettlement stipend'' of $7,
500, and 100,000 refugees were admitted last year.

LOAD-DATE: October 14, 1993

LANGUAGE: English

                  Copyright 1990 St. Louis Post-Dispatch, Inc.


                              233 of 268 DOCUMENTS

                       St. Louis Post-Dispatch (Missouri)

                  January 21, 1990, SUNDAY, THREE STAR Edition

MCNARY NOTES SIMILARITIES BETWEEN NEW, OLD JOBS

BYLINE: Robert L. Koenig Post-Dispatch Washington Bureau

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 8A

LENGTH: 1347 words


WASHINGTON - When Gene McNary takes on the bureaucracy at the Immigration and
Naturalization Service, he says, it's a bit like fighting the ''kings and
kingdoms'' of St. Louis County.  So far, in his efforts to centralize the
Immigration Service, McNary has ruffled some feathers at the agency's regional
offices - just as his attempts to consolidate governments in St. Louis County
made him enemies.  ''Obviously, I didn't have too many friends - because there's
a lot of kings and kingdoms'' in St. Louis County, McNary told a group last week
as he described the county's 90 municipalities.  ''None of them liked me,''
quipped McNary, who was St. Louis County executive before he took the top
Immigration Service job last fall.  ''And so it was time to get out of town. And
I did,'' he said.  But McNary is hoping that his battles with the service's
regional offices - which in recent years had gained a measure of independence
from the agency's central office in Washington - will have a better ending than
his bitter disputes in St. Louis County.  Before his arrival in October, McNary
contended, ''everybody did his own thing'' at agency's regional and district
offices. The agency, based in Washington, has about 14,000 employees.  ''It's an
impossible job when we're divided up - four regions going their way and 33
districts doing their own thing,'' McNary said at a news conference on Thursday.
''That's as bad as St. Louis County, with its 90 municipalities. I didn't think
that anything could be that bad,'' he said.  Quips like that have made St. Louis
County something of a running joke among the dozen or so journalists who
regularly cover immigration issues and who attend McNary's press conferences.
''I have the impression of St. Louis County as a patchwork of kingdoms, like
Germany before Bismarck,'' said one reporter.  While McNary bears little
resemblance to Otto von Bismarck - the Prussian chancellor who united Germany a
century ago - he does share a tendency toward centralizing power.  McNary first
made the agency's regional workers well aware of his presence in November, when
he barred all agency district and regional employees from talking to reporters
without approval from the agency's Washington headquarters.  At Thursday's news
conference, reporters pointed out that a regional agency administrator in Texas
seemed to lend his support to anti-immigrant advertisements by a group called
FAIR, the Federation for American Immigration Reform.  Asked whether he
approved, McNary joked in mock anger: ''Are you suggesting I might not have this
agency speaking with one voice?'' McNary declined to comment on the FAIR flap,
but said: ''I think regions are aware of us now . . . At least they know that
we're here, and we are going to have policy established from here.'' ''Here'' is
the agency headquarters in a nondescript federal building in a run-down section
of Washington. The building has little of the antiseptic cleanliness of the St.
Louis County Government Center.  McNary says he likes his new job, but he
sometimes lapses into the jargon of a county executive when he discusses
immigration issues. In a session with a group of county officials this week,
McNary compared immigration problems to county zoning.  ''I've had experience -
I've dealt with zoning in the past,'' McNary quipped. Noting that many county
zoning disputes involved new folks trying to move into established
neighborhoods, he said: ''Immigration's the same way - some of us moved here in
the past, and we've got ours and we don't want anybody else to come in.'' McNary
says he wants to encourage greater levels of legal immigration into the United
States, but crack down on the illegal flow of aliens. He said 608,000 legal
immigrants and 100,000 refugees entered the United States last year.  McNary
said the agency and Congress, which is developing a new immigration law, face
three major policy questions: Making sure that the legal immigrants ''represent
the best balance of different nationalities, cultures and skills.'' Dealing
''with the growing backlog of visa applicants.'' He said 2.4 million persons
abroad were on the waiting list for visas to enter the United States as workers
or potential immigrants.  Handling ''rapid increases in refugee admissions,
without straining our limited resources.'' Each refugee gets a ''resettlement
stipend'' of $7, 500, and 100,000 refugees were admitted last year.  The
previous immigration commissioner called the post ''a no-win job.'' But McNary
said he enjoyed the challenge. He said that when he was first offered the post,
he told his wife, Susan, that houses in Washington cost about twice that of
those in St. Louis County.  McNary said he also told her that ''the job they've
offered me is one that no one's ever succeeded in, because everyone's mad at you
no matter what you do. And I said: 'If I take the job, will you still love me?'
'' McNary said she responded: ''Not only would I love you, I'd miss you.'' But
he added: '''I went on and took my job and, of course, she loved it in
Washington.'' McNary See McNARY, Page ***

LOAD-DATE: October 14, 1993

LANGUAGE: English

GRAPHIC: Photo; PHOTO HEADSHOT of GENE McNARY, U.S. immigration chief

                  Copyright 1990 St. Louis Post-Dispatch, Inc.


                              234 of 268 DOCUMENTS

                       St. Louis Post-Dispatch (Missouri)

               February 11, 1990, SUNDAY, LATE FIVE STAR Edition

TWO SALVADORANS FIND A REFUGE IN ST. PETERS

BYLINE: Theresa Tighe Of the Post-Dispatch Staff

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 1B

LENGTH: 1600 words


Two years ago when Jeremias Guardado of El Salvador packed his teen-age son off
to a student exchange program in the United States, he wasn't broadening the
boy's horizons. He was trying to save his son's life.  In December, when
Guardado turned up in St. Peters at the home of his son's hosts, he wasn't
checking on the teen-ager's progress. He was trying to save his own life.  The
Guardados are from San Salvador, El Salvador's capital city. Guardado says he is
falsely accused of collaborating with the guerrillas in his country's civil war.
He says both sides have been trying to illegally conscript his son since the boy
was 16.  The son's name also is Jeremias. His new friends in St. Charles County
call him Jerry.  The two live with Dave and Doris Olliver and the Ollivers' two
children in a split-level ranch house. The Guardados applied for political
asylum in January.  Dave Olliver says it will take anywhere from two months to
two years for U.S. Immigration and State Department officials to decide whether
the Guardados can stay in this country.  Immigrating to the United States was
nothing Jeremias Guardado had ever planned to do, he said, using his son as an
interpreter.  He has a wife, Evangelina, and three other children - all in their
twenties and married - and six grandchildren in San Salvador. He may never see
any of them again.  Guardado, 54, was orphaned at 14 and has worked since then.
He was first a cotton picker and later a pathology technician and embalmer. He
owns his home in San Salvador, a rare feat for a former field laborer, but he
has lost the pension he has been contributing to for 32 years.  But, Guardado
said, he and his son ''are caught in the middle of the military and the
guerrillas.'' If they return to their homeland,''we will be killed,'' he said.
Civil war has ravaged El Salvador for almost 10 years, claiming about 50,000
lives, including thousands of civilians.  Guardado said 200 of his relatives
have been killed, if one counts cousins.  In the last year, Guardado's brother,
uncle, niece and nephew and 12 other family members were slain. None were
members of the guerrillas or the army, he said. He knows five were killed by the
guerrillas and nine by the army or right-wing death squads.  The Guardados'
troubles began in early 1988, when the guerrillas and the armed forces both
began stopping Jerry and trying to get him to join them.  Jerry is a 6-footer,
with wide shoulders, brown eyes and black hair. His looks make him a heartthrob
at Francis Howell North, where he is a senior this year.  But in El Salvador,
those looks made him a target. Jerry said that only men between 18-30 who are
not students can legally serve in the military. But both sides will grab any boy
who is physically big enough to hold an automatic rifle. Sometimes boys as young
as 14 are taken, he said.  In March 1988, the guerrillas grabbed Jerry and, when
he refused to go with them, beat him up.  In May, government soldiers tried to
grab him, but he ran away.  In June, a group of drunken government soldiers
stopped him, Jerry said.  Some were members of the death squads, he said. They
taunted him and several hit him. Jerry says he lost his cool and hit back,
decking one.  In retaliation, one of the soldiers drew a knife and slashed
Jerry's left arm and both his legs. One of the men told him to ''consider
yourself dead,'' Jerry said.  Each time Jerry was threatened, his mother would
cry and his father would intensify his efforts to find a way to get his son out
of the country.  Because Jerry's grades were good, he eventually qualified for a
student exchange program. His father said other parents ship their sons out the
country illegally - often to Mexico.  After the incident in June, Jerry was
afraid to leave the house. The family learned that the soldiers he fought with
were looking for him. That August, he boarded a plane for the United States.
Although Jerry was safe, his family's problems were just beginning. In November
of last year, the guerrillas began a major offensive against San Salvador and
other large cities. For several days, tanks prowled the streets, government
troops and the guerrillas fought between houses. Government planes dropped bombs
in residential areas to drive out the guerrillas.  Each night as he watched
television with the Ollivers, Jerry would see bombed-out buildings, some within
blocks of his home. It was over a month before he knew if his family was dead or
alive.  The Ollivers attempted to call his family, but couldn't get through.
Dave Olliver said,''Jerry was desolate. He would watch the news and disappear
into his room for hours. We would find him, with his head under the covers.''
When Guardado found a way to call his son, the news was mixed. The family was
alive, but a neighbor had told the government soldiers that Guardado was
collaborating with the guerrillas.  Guardado said the charge is false - but that
doesn't matter. The soldiers were looking for him and would probably kill him on
sight.  He continued to work during days, but was afraid to return home. He
spent nights sleeping at the hospital, with friends in their homes and at the
funeral homes where he worked part time.  The Ollivers told Guardado that if he
could get to St. Peters, he could live with them. Guardado had enough money for
a plane ticket to New York.  Jerry came up with money to get his father from New
York to St. Louis.  On Dec. 20, five days before Christmas, the two were
reunited.  Olliver said he and his wife had no regrets about opening their home
to the Guardados. He says his family has grown to like and trust Jerry and his
father. When they learned of the Guardados' difficulties, Olliver said, ''We
just wanted to help. We want Jerry to be able to grow up and someday raise his
children in a place where there is no bloodshed.'' So Guardado sits at the
Ollivers' kitchen table reading a Golden Book of first words. He tries to
relieve the American family's hectic schedule by cooking and playing with the
children, Brent, 7, and Tracy, 5.  And Jerry hurries off to high school every
morning like any other senior in the neighborhood.  But, Olliver said, sometimes
when the father and son watch the news and see their homeland, they embrace each
other and cry.

LOAD-DATE: October 14, 1993

LANGUAGE: English

GRAPHIC: Photo; PHOTO by Jerry Naunheim Jr./Post-Dispatch ...Jeremias Guardado,
a Salvadoran refugee, with his son, Jerry. They are seeking political asylum in
the United States.

                  Copyright 1990 St. Louis Post-Dispatch, Inc.


                              235 of 268 DOCUMENTS

                       St. Louis Post-Dispatch (Missouri)

                 March 4, 1990, SUNDAY, LATE FIVE STAR Edition

ISRAEL TO CENSOR IMMIGRATION STORIES

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 8A

LENGTH: 560 words


JERUSALEM - Israel has announced that journalists will be required to submit to
military censorship articles about the immigration of Soviet Jews.  The policy
announced Friday apparently is in reaction to U.S. criticism of Israel's
settlement policies.  Both the United States and Soviet Union have expressed
concern that many Soviet Jews eventually will be settled in the Israeli-occupied
West Bank and Gaza Strip.  Robert Slater, head of the Foreign Press Association,
said the new policy appeared to be an effort to control the reporting of
political developments.  Israeli law gives the army authority to censor any
information considered vital to the security of the state.  Avi Pazner, media
adviser to Prime Minister Yitzhak Shamir said, ''This is not a new regulation,
but one that was not enforced. Now it will be.'' Pazner said that the change in
policy reflected threats by Palestinian organizations against the immigration
process and the immigrants themselves.  He would not provide details of the
threats.  The censorship announcement came one day after Secretary of State
James A.  Baker III's toughest criticism to date of Israel's settlement policies
and his warning that the future of the peace process depended on Israel.  Baker
told Congress that he would support providing Israel loan guarantees to build
housing for immigrants only if Israel promised that the money would not be used
to build or expand Jewish settlements.  In recent days, Israeli officials
announced ever higher figures for the number of Soviet Jews expected this year.
The latest projections, published by the Israeli press and attributed to
immigration officials, put the number at 230,000, double the estimate of a month
ago.  In Nazareth, Israel, about 1,000 Israeli Arabs signed petitions Saturday
urging the Soviet Union to halt the Jewish emigration for fear the new
immigrants will take away Arab jobs.  Mohammed Kayal, an Arab journalist and
organizer of the petition drive, said that 4,000 had signed in three days and
that the petition drive would continue for another two weeks.  He said the
petitions would be sent to Soviet President Mikhail S.  Gorbachev.

LOAD-DATE: October 14, 1993

LANGUAGE: English

                  Copyright 1990 St. Louis Post-Dispatch, Inc.


                              236 of 268 DOCUMENTS

                       St. Louis Post-Dispatch (Missouri)

                   March 4, 1990, SUNDAY, THREE STAR Edition

ISRAEL ORDERS CENSORSHIP OF IMMIGRATION STORIES

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 8A

LENGTH: 760 words


JERUSALEM - Israel has announced that journalists will be required to submit to
military censorship articles about the immigration of Soviet Jews.  The new
policy apparently is in reaction to American criticism about Israel's settlement
policies.  Both the United States and Soviet Union have expressed concern that
large numbers of Soviet Jews eventually will be settled in the Israeli-occupied
West Bank and Gaza Strip, seriously complicating efforts to reach a peace
settlement in the Middle East.  Robert Slater, head of the Foreign Press
Association, said the new policy appeared to be an effort to control the
reporting of political developments.  ''It is not a clear case of Israeli lives
being in danger,'' Slater said.  ''The story has been reported every day the
last few months. It's a case of trying to clamp down when the facts are already
out.'' Israeli law gives the army authority to censor any information considered
vital to the security of the state. In the one-sentence announcement issued
Friday, the army said that reporters would have to submit to the censor ''all
material'' about Soviet immigration.  ''This is not a new regulation, but one
that was not enforced,'' said Avi Pazner, media adviser to Prime Minister
Yitzhak Shamir. ''Now it will be.'' Pazner said that the change in policy
reflected threats by Palestinian organizations against the immigration process
and the immigrants themselves.  He would not provide details of the threats.
Strict censorship has been enforced about immigration matters on at least two
other occasions. In the mid-1980s, censorship kept temporarily secret the
government's airlift to Israel of thousands of Ethiopian Jews. Similar
restrictions applied in the 1970s about the then-secret arrival of Jews from
Eastern Europe.  Until now, authorities have actively encouraged journalists to
write and photograph stories about Soviet immigration, as evidence that Israel
was fulfilling its mandate as the Jewish homeland. Authorities also had been
clearly pleased that the immigration story deflected attention from the
2-year-old Palestinian uprising.  But in recent weeks American and Soviet
officials repeatedly have expressed concern that large numbers of immigrants
would settle in the West Bank, or that the government would use their arrival to
justify the building of new settlements.  The censorship announcement came one
day after Secretary of State James A.  Baker III's toughest criticism to date of
Israel's settlement policies and his warning that the future of the peace
process depended on Israel.  Baker told Congress that he would support providing
Israel loan guarantees to build housing for immigrants only if Israel promised
that the money would not be used directly or indirectly to build or expand
Jewish settlements.  In recent days, Israeli officials announced ever higher
figures for the number of Soviet Jews expected this year. The latest
projections, published by the Israeli press and attributed to immigration
officials, put the number at 230,000, double the estimate of a month ago.

LOAD-DATE: October 14, 1993

LANGUAGE: English

                  Copyright 1990 St. Louis Post-Dispatch, Inc.


                              237 of 268 DOCUMENTS

                       St. Louis Post-Dispatch (Missouri)

                    March 9, 1990, FRIDAY, FIVE STAR Edition

SYRIAN DECRIES E. EUROPEAN CHANGES

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 17A

LENGTH: 787 words


DAMASCUS, Syria - President Hafez Assad decried the changes sweeping Eastern
Europe as a boon to Israel and called for a holy war ''as long as time'' against
Israel.  Assad also denounced the recent wave of Soviet Jewish emigration to
Israel; he said migrating Jews would force Palestinians from their homeland.  He
told a youth rally Thursday marking his socialist Baath party's 27th anniversary
in power: ''Let us now perceive that Israel was the first beneficiary, among all
nations of the world, of the international changes that have taken place.''
Assad complained that in socialist countries once resolutely opposed to Israel,
''Zionists are now active everywhere.'' Poland, Hungary and Czechoslovakia have
re-established relations with Israel in the past six months. All the Eastern
European countries except for Romania had broken ties over the 1967 Arab-Israeli
War.  The Zionist ''influence has become clear in the media, where they have
infiltrated in more than one socialist country,'' Assad said.  Assad has long
been a hard-line opponent of Israel. He pledged to continue his struggle,
''bearing in mind that the time is long, and our Jihad (holy war) should be as
long as time is.'' ''We are just at the beginning of this long time,'' he said.
''It is not we who have to ask 'until when.' Rather, the enemy is the one who
should ask this question.'' Assad said Israel still sought a ''greater Israel,
from the Nile to the Euphrates,'' referring to a radical version of Zionism that
foresaw Jewish rule from Egypt to Iraq. He denounced an expected mass migration
of Soviet Jews to Israel.  Israel expects 100,000 immigrants this year because
the Soviets have relaxed emigration laws and the United States has set new
limits on their entry. The exodus has alarmed Arab countries, who fear that the
newcomers will settle in the occupied territories claimed by Palestinians as a
separate state.  Assad said most Soviet Jews were not even descended from the
ancient Hebrew tribes but rather from the Khazar people of what is now the
Soviet Union, who converted to Judaism centuries ago.  ''Beyond any doubt, the
United States played the major role in the realization of Israeli desires,''
Assad said. He said the U.S. government should ''bear some of its
responsibility, at least in the last episode of the game.'' Assad did not hold
the Soviet Union, a long-time Syrian ally, responsible for the Jewish exodus,
and he repeated his assertion that ''the relationship between Syria and the
Soviet Union is now as firm as ever.'' The Soviet Union has given Syria massive
economic and military aid.  Labor Party To Meet...  Israel's Labor Party said
Thursday that its governing central committee would meet on Monday to decide
whether to quit the coalition government if the Cabinet rejects on U.S.
proposals for Middle East peace talks.  The party executive backed the demand of
Vice Premier Shimon Peres that Prime Minister Yitzhak Shamir and his Likud Party
accept the U.S. plan at the government's next meeting, on Sunday.

LOAD-DATE: October 14, 1993

LANGUAGE: English

                  Copyright 1990 St. Louis Post-Dispatch, Inc.


                              238 of 268 DOCUMENTS

                       St. Louis Post-Dispatch (Missouri)

                   March 9, 1990, FRIDAY, THREE STAR Edition

WORK CARD INTRIGUES MCNARY

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 6C

LENGTH: 400 words


WASHINGTON - Immigration chief Gene McNary is interested in making all
job-seekers in the United States carry a national work authorization card.
While stopping short of endorsing the idea - which some critics say violates
constitutional privacy rights - McNary said Wednesday, ''There are a lot of good
reasons for it. ''We already have all kinds of identity cards,'' he said. ''If a
law was passed establishing an employment authorization document, it would
greatly enhance our ability to enforce employer sanctions and to eliminate
discrimination.'' McNary heads the Immigration and Naturalization Service.  His
remarks drew immediate criticism from the American Civil Liberties Union, a
longtime opponent of the national identity card or any similar system.  ''We see
it as an extreme threat to privacy rights and an erosion of the protection of
individual liberties,'' said Wade Henderson, of the ACLU's Washington office.
Lucas Guttentag, director of the ACLU's immigration rights project in New York,
said a national work authorization card would cost billions of dollars and would
not combat discrimination.  McNary said he was not proposing a nationwide
identity card but would consider the concept if it were advanced by others.
''I'm not taking the initiative; it's something that should be reviewed and
discussed,'' McNary said. ''I think its up to some others; it's going to take a
law.'' Before endorsing the concept, ''I'd like to have the benefit of
discussion; I'd like to get the viewpoint of some of the interest groups.''

LOAD-DATE: October 14, 1993

LANGUAGE: English

GRAPHIC: Photo; PHOTO HEADSHOT of (Gene) McNary

                  Copyright 1990 St. Louis Post-Dispatch, Inc.


                              239 of 268 DOCUMENTS

                       St. Louis Post-Dispatch (Missouri)

                  March 10, 1990, SATURDAY, THREE STAR Edition

WHERE SHOULD SOVIET JEWS SETTLE?

SECTION: EDITORIAL; Pg. 2B

LENGTH: 747 words


The issue of Soviet Jews immigrating to Israel is at a rolling boil, and the
resulting mess could hurt a lot of people who need to be free of the increasing
anti-Semitism in Mother Russia. Many of the 1.4 million Jews still in the Soviet
Union live in daily fear of pogroms. As Roza Gutman, a 23-year-old Jew from the
Crimean region, said recently, ''There's an elementary threat to life'' in the
Soviet Union these days as Soviet leader Mikhail Gorbachev's reforms have
allowed more ethnic Russians to speak out in anti-Semitic ways.  Last year,
71,000 Jews were allowed to emigrate. Many went to Israel, where they are
welcomed by a government that is continually trying to offset the Arab birth
rate and the flight of Israelis who choose to live abroad.  Meanwhile, the
United States has capped its quota of Soviet immigrants at 50,000, which means
most others are going to Israel. The numbers are staggering: In January and
February, more than 10,000 Soviet Jews went to Israel; up to 200,000 are
expected by the end of the year; and 750,000 could emigrate over the next five
years.  The issue of where they will live is so touchy that the Israeli
government has imposed censorship on aspects of the topic - a tactic that it has
not applied to the Palestinian intifada - because of Arab protests to Moscow.
Some Arab governments fear many of the Jews will be settled among the 1.7
million Palestinians living in the occupied West Bank and Gaza Strip in an
attempt to cement Israel's hold for generations. Israeli Arabs fear Soviet Jews
will be preferred for jobs and government money, which is apt to be true,
because Israeli Arabs are second-class citizens in the Jewish state.  Secretary
of State James Baker has said the $400 million the United States will give
Israel to help resettle Soviet Jews should not be used directly or indirectly to
put them in the occupied territories. He is absolutely correct, but his comments
caused an uproar in Israel anyway and threats that Prime Minister Yitzhak Shamir
would refuse to accept the Baker plan for peace talks about the territories.
The right of Soviet Jews to go to Israel is indisputable, as is their right to
come to the United States or make homes elsewhere. But the Israeli government
and Mr. Shamir in particular have aggravated things by refusing to lay out a
policy that separates the Soviet Jews from the occupied territories.  As things
are now, Soviet Jews officially are free to choose - while the government offers
cheaper housing and other incentives.  To continue this duplicity would be to
bargain in bad faith over the future of the territories. There is lots of room
for immigrants in the Negev desert and in the Northern Galilee and elsewhere
inside the 1967 boundaries.  They are needed there; in the territories, they can
only lead to more trouble, in Israel as well as in foreign policy matters.

LOAD-DATE: October 14, 1993

LANGUAGE: English

                  Copyright 1990 St. Louis Post-Dispatch, Inc.


                              240 of 268 DOCUMENTS

                       St. Louis Post-Dispatch (Missouri)

                   March 16, 1990, FRIDAY, FIVE STAR Edition

JOBS BILL PITS IRISH VS. IRISH

BYLINE: a Staff Member Of the Post-Dispatch

SECTION: EVERYDAY MAGAZINE; Pg. 1F

LENGTH: 2520 words


FOR THE EVE of the feast day of St. Patrick, we will consider matters of
''possible grave international consequences.'' An Irish journalist friend used
to love that phrase, and it certainly is appropriate for what went on not long
ago in a basement hearing room at the state capitol in Jefferson City.  Michael
Keane, editor of Dublin's Sunday Press, would glory in uttering those cheerless
words after a night at Mulligan's, a saloon next to the Irish Press building on
Corn Exchange Place.  Puffing himself up in mock earnestness, Keane would say,
''Hold the edition, we have something here,'' and then go into his ''grave
international consequences'' routine, the last word coming out in an exquisite
hiss.  Keane, of course, would appreciate the ''grave international
consequences'' arising from the debate over the MacBride Principles bill, being
fought out in the Missouri House.  Not to mention the plight of the undocumented
Irish, which is the subject of the article at the top of this page. They are, in
a way, related matters, the lack of jobs and efforts to control the new flood of
Irish immigrants.  The battle over the MacBride Principles has once again pitted
Irish against Irish, and there is nothing unusual in that. The issue of job
discrimination in Northern Ireland, and the rhetoric that surrounds it, have
been around for the better part of this century; the Irish are well practiced at
this.  ''Irish Bill Evokes Strong Emotions'' was the headline in the Joplin
Globe. Sure enough. An Irishman named O'Neill told the Post-Dispatch that
another Irishman named Gallagher was a ''Judas'' for taking on a lobbying
assignment for Her Majesty's Government to work against passage of his bill.
''That sinful man,'' said state Rep. Jim Murphy, another Irish-Catholic
legislator, who spoke mostly in jest.  Murphy is a Crestwood Republican, another
child of immigrants, and the son of a streetcar driver. Murphy, however,
abandoned the family's Democratic Party traditions to join the GOP. ''You'd
think I'd become a Protestant, '' he said.  House Bill 1000 is the work of State
Rep. Matt O'Neill, a south St. Louis Democrat, a vice president of the
International Brotherhood of Electrical Workers and a thoroughly Irish-American
fellow.  His parents were Irish immigrants who suffered great economic and
educational hardships at the hands of the British, he said. His wife, Maureen,
is from County Galway. They have a raft of relatives left over there.  Both
O'Neill and Murphy can recite British horror stories, particularly the work of
Great Britain's murderous black and tan irregulars. ''They simply pillaged,
raped the women, killed the babies,'' said Murphy, referring to military force
sent into Southern Ireland before Irish independence.  ''I abhor what the
British have done, but thank them for forcing my parents over so I could be an
American. They thought this country was heaven on Earth; and you know where hell
is.'' O'Neill has been working for a couple of years now to add Missouri to the
roll of states enacting MacBride Principles legislation, billed as an effort to
ensure fair employment policies for Catholics in Northern Ireland.  Illinois is
now a MacBride state. O'Neill hopes Missouri will be next.  Backers of the
MacBride effort say it is a non-violent approach to social justice and fair
employment practices for Northern Ireland's minority Catholic population.  The
British position is that MacBride Principles would discourage investment in
Northern Ireland and cause additional economic hardships.  Not to mention that
there already is a Northern Ireland fair employment act that became law last
year. The Bush administration and the State Department are opposed to it because
they see MacBride as a usurption of the national government's authority to set
foreign policy, which they do not see as the purview of city and state
governments.  ''It's not that the majority Protestants in Northern Ireland want
the Catholics to become Protestant, it's really economics - who owns and
controls the wealth of Northern Ireland,'' said the Rev. James J. O'Sullivan of
Eldon, Mo., himself a native of County Cork. O'Sullivan has testified for the
MacBride Principles both this year and last.  ''MacBride Principles has been
incredibly effective in forcing the British to come up with fair-employment
practices in the North,'' said Niall O'Dowd, editor of Irish America Magazine in
New York. ''You solve the economics, you've solved the violence.'' But the
British government is fighting hard to derail MacBride legislation in this
country, spending millions of pounds annually in this effort, say MacBride
advocates.  And, indeed, the British agents have come to Missouri, much to the
consternation of O'Neill and fellow MacBride backer Jim Murphy.  Actually, the
agents in question were Northern Irishmen who spoke against the O'Neill bill.
They said they were Catholics, said O'Sullivan, whose tone dripped with sarcasm.
''I really resented that British agents were allowed to testify against us, to
lobby in Jefferson City, and they were unregistered foreign agents, which is
illegal,'' said Rep. Murphy.  ''We complained to the State Department in
Washington, but they kind of hoo-hooed, and ha-ha-haaed, and said, 'We're
looking into it.' ''There're too damned many WASPs in Washington,'' said Murphy,
who kind of sets the rhetorical tone.  But he's not quite as graphic as Father
O'Sullivan. ''The English have robbed the people of their dignity, of their
humanity, have broken their spirit, and for that there should be no
forgiveness,'' testified the pastor of Eldon's Sacred Heart Catholic Church, in
remarks to the House committee a year ago. O'Sullivan was back again this year,
urging passage of MacBride.  Meanwhile, agents for Her Majesty's Government,
known officially as the United Kingdom and Northern Ireland, suggest that this
is all a republican plot. Rather than reduce unemployment, it would harass U.S.
companies and cause them to leave, creating joblessness for workers of all
faiths, say those speaking against the bill.  ''This is part of a republican
campaign against the Brits; it's not really aimed at unemployment,'' Harry Coll
was quoted as saying in the Joplin Globe.  Coll is one of O'Neill's dreaded
unregistered foreign agents, who has since returned to Belfast, capital of
Northern Ireland, where he is a solicitor, or lawyer. Coll was joined in
Jefferson City by two others from the North who testified against the bill, Sean
Neeson and Martin Dummigan. The bill would be ''bad for us,'' said Coll.  Only
the Sinn Fein Party, the political arm of the Provisional wing of the Irish
Republican Army, which often has ''terrorist'' attached to its name, endorses
the MacBride plan, say these agents for the British.  All so much
British-inspired shenanigans, say O'Neill and Murphy, who insist that this thing
called the MacBride Principles is peaceful and non-violent. It is merely an
attempt in this country to put pressure on American companies doing business in
Northern Ireland to cease the systematic bias against employing Catholics in
that country.  Proponents say it was modeled, in part, after the Sullivan
Principles in South Africa, a divestment scheme used against American
corporations doing business in South Africa, intended to force an end to
apartheid.  (MacBride, incidentally, was the late Sean MacBride, a Dublin
barrister, Nobel and Lenin Peace Prize winner, and creator of the nine
principles intended to bring about peaceful change in Northern Ireland.) ''I
supported blacks on apartheid,'' said O'Neill. ''Never get anyone's attention
without hitting them in the pocketbook.'' His bill, which passed committee on a
4-3 vote, with one abstention, would call for divestment of state pension funds
for American corporations found guilty of discriminating against Catholics in
the North of Ireland.  The Ford Motor Co. is often mentioned in this regard, and
was even cited by the British government for discriminatory practices in its
hiring practices at its West Belfast plant, which is a Catholic area.  ''There
was even a boycott by Irish-Americans, but ultimately there have been
improvements,'' said Patrick Doherty, director of the Division of Investment
Responsibility for the New York comptroller's office, the city where the
MacBride Principles campaign began in 1984. New York City was first to enact
legislation, with Massachusetts the first state.  ''This is not like the
Sullivan Principles in that we're asking American corporations to leave Northern
Ireland - quite the opposite,'' said Doherty.  ''We're not asking American
companies to leave. In some cases, we are asking mandatory divestment with
companies not in compliance, and after several years of violations. It's a
delicate balance; this may cause companies to leave.  ''But five years have
passed (since the beginning of the MacBride campaign, and many of the companies
we were putting pressure on have expanded in Northern Ireland.'' Doherty insists
the MacBride Principles would help Protestant workers in areas where they're
discriminated against, places such as Londonderry where the United Technologies
plants has a Catholic work force of more than 95 percent. ''MacBride would
remove all unfair barriers to fair employment, '' he said.  ''We would like to
make a couple of distinctions,'' said Chuck Gallagher, the Earth City lobbyist
who was hired by the British to lobby against O'Neill's bill. (Gallagher's
mother's parents are from Dublin, his father's family from Kilarney. ''Every
nationality has their Judases,'' said O'Neill.) ''First, apartheid is indeed a
legal entity in South Africa, while discrimination in Northern Ireland is
illegal,'' Gallagher said. ''These MacBride Principles would require reverse
discrimination and mandate quotas. A significant point you might want to make is
that the corporations doing business in Northern Ireland have been singularly
silent.'' All well and good, say the MacBride backers, but as a practical
matter, the anti-discrimination law in Northern Ireland has no teeth and no
serious enforcement agency. If you're a Catholic in Northern Ireland, you're 2
times more likely to be unemployed than a Protestant, they say.  And so it goes.

LOAD-DATE: October 14, 1993

LANGUAGE: English

GRAPHIC: Photo; PHOTO (COLOR) HEADSHOT of Chuck Gallagher. PHOTO HEADSHOT of Jim
Murphy.  PHOTO HEADSHOT of Matt O'Neill.

                  Copyright 1990 St. Louis Post-Dispatch, Inc.


                              241 of 268 DOCUMENTS

                       St. Louis Post-Dispatch (Missouri)

                  March 17, 1990, SATURDAY, FIVE STAR Edition

ST. LOUIS DAY BY DAY

SECTION: EVERYDAY MAGAZINE; Pg. 1D

LENGTH: 294 words


MARCH 17, 1820 (REST) The first sizable group of foreign immigrants to arrive in
the area were the Irish, whose numbers were sufficient in 1820 to celebrate St.
Patrick's day.  They staged a parade, after which they met for dinner and a
series of toasts to the ould sod. According to historian Frederic Billon, the
Irish in 1819 numbered about 100 out of an estimated population of about 7,000
and constituted two-thirds of the city's foreign-born population.  The ratio of
Irish in St. Louis remained fairly static through the first half of the
nineteenth century. In 1851, after a period of heavy emigration, there were
11,277 Irish in a city of 77,716 population. The influence of the Irish has
remained considerable, and their day is a favorite holiday with all St.
Louisans, regardless of their national derivations.  SOURCE: - Excerpted from
Frances Hurd Stadler's ''St. Louis Day by Day'' (The Patrice Press, St. Louis)

LOAD-DATE: October 14, 1993

LANGUAGE: English

GRAPHIC: Graphic; LOGO (COLOR)...St. Louis Day By Day.

                  Copyright 1990 St. Louis Post-Dispatch, Inc.


                              242 of 268 DOCUMENTS

                       St. Louis Post-Dispatch (Missouri)

               March 19, 1990, MONDAY, ILLINOIS FIVE STAR Edition

STATE GROUP OFFERS IMMIGRATION GUIDE

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 3I

LENGTH: 160 words


A guide that can assist people in researching immigration and ethnic history is
available from the Illinois State Historical Society. ''Immigration History and
Ethnicity in Illinois: A Guide,'' written by Illinois State University Professor
Mark Wyman, contains information about immigration patterns and the settlement
of various ethnic groups.  The guide is available for $2.95 by writing the
Illinois State Historical Society, Publications Section, Old State Capitol,
Springfield, Ill., 62701.  The Illinois State Historical Society is a private
organization that supports the efforts of the Illinois Historic Preservation
Agency to preserve, interpret and disseminate Illinois history.

LOAD-DATE: October 14, 1993

LANGUAGE: English

                  Copyright 1990 St. Louis Post-Dispatch, Inc.


                              243 of 268 DOCUMENTS

                       St. Louis Post-Dispatch (Missouri)

                  April 11, 1990, WEDNESDAY, FIVE STAR Edition

DEPORTATION SOUGHT FOR IMMIGRANT KILLER OF 2

BYLINE: Charles Bosworth Jr. Of the Post-Dispatch Staff (NOTE: By-line ran in 3*
and Illinois editions only)

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 5A

LENGTH: 694 words


The Madison County State's Attorney's office is seeking the deportation of a man
from El Salvador who was convicted Tuesday in a crash that killed two people on
a Christmas tree lot in Collinsville in December.  Jose Ramon Orantes-Pleitez,
30, could be sentenced to two years in prison on two counts of reckless homicide
and one count of ''offenses relating to a motor vehicle'' for stealing a pickup
truck.  He was convicted by a judge in Madison County after a brief trial
Tuesday.  Assistant State's Attorney Randy G. Massey said he would ask
Commissioner Gene McNary of the U.S. Immigration and Naturalization Service to
begin deportation proceedings against Orantes-Pleitez, who is in the United
States illegally.  (NOTE: THE FOLLOWING PARAGRAPH APPEARED IN THE 3* EDITION
ONLY) Sen. Paul Simon, D-Ill., also has written to McNary, asking him to review
the service's refusal to investigate Orantes-Pleitez while he was being held by
police in St. Clair County. The crash happened a few days after he was released.
(END OF 3* EDITION TEXT) In the trial, no witnesses were called, and Massey and
Assistant Public Defender Neil Hawkins agreed to the facts of the case.
Associate Judge J.  Lawrence Keshner convicted Orantes-Pleitez and will sentence
him in about a month.  Massey said Orantes-Pleitez stole a pickup truck in
Belleville and was driving through Collinsville on Dec. 17 when he missed a
curve in the 100 block of St. Louis Road. The truck crashed into a Christmas
tree lot and killed Wade Brake, 14, of Collinsville, and Roland Cox, 37, of
Pontoon Beach. (NOTE: THE FOLLOWING TEXT APPEARED IN THE 3* EDITION ONLY)
Brake's parents have filed a suit against Orantes-Pleitez, the owner of the
truck, the owner of the tree lot and the city of Collinsville.  Cox's relatives
also have hired an attorney, but he was unavailable for comment Tuesday.  In a
letter to McNary on March 30, Simon complained that the Immigration Service had
failed to respond to inquiries by police in Collinsville and other local law
enforcement agencies while Orantes-Pleitez was being held on a charge of
trespassing at Scott Air Force Base in Belleville.  Orantes-Pleitez was released
after authorities decided not to prosecute him on the charge and after the
Immigration Service refused to review his status.  Massey said Orantes-Pleitez
had been carrying a note from a deputy in St.  Clair County stating that the
Immigration Service was not deporting him.  Simon said he had been told that the
service would not become involved in such a case unless a crime had been
committed. He asked McNary to review that policy.  ''It is clear INS could have
done more in this case to check the individual's background and to initiate
deportation proceedings,'' Simon wrote. He noted that such action would have
avoided two deaths.

LOAD-DATE: October 14, 1993

LANGUAGE: English

                  Copyright 1990 St. Louis Post-Dispatch, Inc.


                              244 of 268 DOCUMENTS

                       St. Louis Post-Dispatch (Missouri)

                  April 14, 1990, SATURDAY, FIVE STAR Edition

AIDS  U.S. WAIVES TEST FOR YEARLY MEETING

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 7A

LENGTH: 200 words


The United States announced Friday that it would waive AIDS tests, usually
required for visas, for foreigners planning to attend the Sixth International
Conference on AIDS in San Francisco and selected other conferences. ''These
special 10-day visas, an alternative to current policy, will be provided without
requiring individuals to identify whether they are HIV-positive,'' the
Immigration and Naturalization Service said in Washington.  Attorney General
Dick Thornburgh issued the new directive permitting Health and Human Services
Secretary Louis Sullivan to waive the AIDS tests for professional, scientific or
academic conferences. The move was aimed at defusing protests against U.S.
immigration policy, which has prompted a boycott of the AIDS conference.
SOURCE: Reuters

LOAD-DATE: October 14, 1993

LANGUAGE: English

                  Copyright 1990 St. Louis Post-Dispatch, Inc.


                              245 of 268 DOCUMENTS

                       St. Louis Post-Dispatch (Missouri)

                  April 14, 1990, SATURDAY, FIVE STAR Edition

AIDS  U.S. WAIVES TEST FOR YEARLY MEETING

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 7A

LENGTH: 200 words


The United States announced Friday that it would waive AIDS tests, usually
required for visas, for foreigners planning to attend the Sixth International
Conference on AIDS in San Francisco and selected other conferences. ''These
special 10-day visas, an alternative to current policy, will be provided without
requiring individuals to identify whether they are HIV-positive,'' the
Immigration and Naturalization Service said in Washington.  Attorney General
Dick Thornburgh issued the new directive permitting Health and Human Services
Secretary Louis Sullivan to waive the AIDS tests for professional, scientific or
academic conferences. The move was aimed at defusing protests against U.S.
immigration policy, which has prompted a boycott of the AIDS conference.
SOURCE: Reuters

LOAD-DATE: October 14, 1993

LANGUAGE: English

                  Copyright 1990 St. Louis Post-Dispatch, Inc.


                              246 of 268 DOCUMENTS

                       St. Louis Post-Dispatch (Missouri)

                  April 17, 1990, TUESDAY, THREE STAR Edition

PERU SEES A FUTURE MADE IN JAPAN ... VOTERS HOPE SON OF JAPANESE IMMIGRANTS; CAN
BRING PROSPERITY

BYLINE: David C. Knowlton

SECTION: EDITORIAL; Pg. 3B

LENGTH: 1267 words


The surprising results of Peru's recent presidential election mark an important
change in the Pacific Rim. Alberto Fujimori, the relatively unknown son of
Japanese immigrants to Peru, astonished commentators and Peruvian politicians
alike by his amazingly strong showing in a race thought to be dominated by
Peru's internationally known novelist, Mario Vargas Llosa.  Although Vargas
Llosa captured the largest percentage of the vote, Fujimori is now considered
likely to win the runoff election for Peru's presidency. His showing illustrates
the symbolic and substantive importance of Japan in what the United States
considers its back yard.  Vargas Llosa was widely touted in the international
press as the probable victor. His program of reducing government and freeing the
small-business sector struck harmonic chords in a West obsessed with the
transformation of the state economies of Eastern Europe.  He seemed almost a
figure from his own novels, the reflective writer who returns from exile in
Europe (and St. Louis) to attempt the salvation of his country mired in corrupt
and repressive government, economic depression and guerrilla violence.  Many
Peruvians and foreigners alike hoped he could free the entrepreneurial skills
manifest in Peru's vital informal sector and that, with his international
connections, he could convince the United States and Europe to provide the
financial assistance Peru would need for recovery.  There was, however, a
critical weakness in Vargas Llosa's appeal. He rose to political prominence at
the head of a middle- and upper-middle-class movement challenging the
government's nationalization of private banks, but he did not move beyond that
base and capture the imagination of Peru's impoverished majority. He further
sought the support of Peru's established center-right parties and retained an
American political consulting company.  As a result, his message remained aloof,
elitist and tarnished by its association with Peruvian politicians and Western
foreign interests.  Fujimori, with his simple imagery, was able to speak to the
common Peruvian. He stressed his origins as a social and political outsider and
eschewed alliances with established political parties. He further attempted to
co-opt the prestige of Japan for himself by appearing as a Samurai defender of
Peru.  Consequently, he captured Peru's disillusion with its politicians and
their rhetoric, its mistrust of the upper classes, its anger at the United
States and Europe, its concern about a disastrous economy and its fear of the
Shining Path guerrillas.  For these people, the postwar economic miracle of
Japan speaks loudly. They see a once-defeated nation that rose from the cinders
of Hiroshima to become an economic power able to challenge the United States.
For them, the Samurai warrior as an image of manliness and courage expresses
their hope to defeat the problems of unemployment, inflation, hunger,
governmental venality and brutality, as well as civil war. They blame many of
their problems on a self-serving political and business elite and
''exploitation'' by European and American interests, the bases of Vargas Llosa's
campaign.  By voting for Fujimori, common Peruvians indicated a desire for
increased Japanese influence in their nation to counteract the problems that
assail them.  Latin America has a relatively large population of Japanese
immigrants and their descendants. They are known for their hard work and social
mobility. And with the changing fortunes of our times, they are increasingly
seen as a bridge to the new golden land of promise.  In Peru, every nisei, the
child of Japanese immigrants, hopes to obtain temporary work in Japan. They plan
to return to Peru with their savings to buy homes and establish businesses.
Japanese firms, faced by a labor shortage, contract with Japanese Peruvian
travel agencies to obtain laborers and send them to Japan. Although much of this
migrant labor is illegal under Japanese law, significant numbers of Latin
American youths are currently working there.  Ambitious youths used to dream of
migrating legally or illegally to the United States for work. They would query
every itinerant North American about life in the United States - ''Is it true
that every house has a swimming pool?'' - and about how they might get there.
Now they increasingly discuss the marvels of Japan and how they wish to go there
to work.  Japan exercises increasing influence in Latin America because of its
economic strength and its new importance as a source of loans and aid.
Undoubtedly its role in hemispheric affairs will grow, mediated by a population
conversant with Japanese language and culture but solidly rooted in Latin
America.  Fujimori is such a person. He is solidly Peruvian in speech,
personality and expression. But his stunning performance suggests a new symbolic
order for Latin America where the Japanese dream successfully challenges a
tawdry and compromised American dream.  David C. Knowlton is assistant professor
of anthropology at Washington University.

LOAD-DATE: October 14, 1993

LANGUAGE: English

                  Copyright 1990 St. Louis Post-Dispatch, Inc.


                              247 of 268 DOCUMENTS

                       St. Louis Post-Dispatch (Missouri)

                     May 7, 1990, MONDAY, FIVE STAR Edition

EUROPEAN IMMIGRANTS TELL OF EASTERN BLOC BRUTALITY

BYLINE: Melinda Brown Post-Dispatch Special Correspondent

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 360 words


Two immigrants from eastern Europe reminded students at Mehlville High School
about the troubles their homelands endured under Communist rule in the past
while noting improvements in the present.  The speakers were the Rev. Anthony
Bukauskas, a refugee from Lithuania and Alex Lantos, president of the Mehlville
School Board, who came to the United States from Hungary in 1957. They spoke
last week to a breakfast forum of the chapter of the American Field Service at
the school.  Bukauskas said former President Ronald Reagan ''was right to call
Russia the ''evil empire.' '' He reminded students that in 1940, Stalin absorbed
Lithuania, Latvia and Estonia into the Soviet Union.  ''He turned schools and
youth organizations into camps to introduce atheistic Communism to the people,''
Bukauskas said.  Bukauskas said he spent time in a Russian concentration camp.
He did not go into details about his experiences.  Lantos said ''Communism
teaches distrust of one another because this is the only way to keep the people
down. But people see what is going on in the rest of the world and you can't
keep them down anymore.'' He said he supports the field service's student
exchange program because it teaches international friendship and trust.  ''You
cannot ask young people to go onto a battlefield against friends,'' he said.

LOAD-DATE: October 14, 1993

LANGUAGE: English

                  Copyright 1990 St. Louis Post-Dispatch, Inc.


                              248 of 268 DOCUMENTS

                       St. Louis Post-Dispatch (Missouri)

                    May 8, 1990, TUESDAY, FIVE STAR Edition

SMALL BUSINESS WEEK 3 TO BE HONORED IN PROGRAM TODAY

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 6A

LENGTH: 307 words


A woman who immigrated to the United States from Mexico, a Vietnam War
veteranand a man who employs people with special vocational needs will be
honored today at a reception beginning at 5:30 p.m. at the Missouri Botanical
Garden to commemorate Small Business Week.  Southwestern Bell Telephone and the
Regional Commerce and Growth Association will recognize: Ernestine Bazan Zegar,
president and owner of A.C.P. Inc., which operates the Acapulco Restaurants in
St. Louis County and Farmington, Mo.; Donald G. Smith, president and owner of
Building Masters Inc.  in St. Louis County; and James R. Cobb, president and
owner of Kwik-Kopy Printing in St. Louis County. Zegar, who was born in Oaxaca,
Mexico, came to St. Louis in 1976. She began her business with a restaurant in
the St. Charles area.  Smith's company employs young adults from the Special
School District, Vocational Rehabilitation and Project JESS, which is an acronym
for Job Experience for Special Students.  Cobb is a board member of the Vietnam
Veterans Leadership Program, through which he supports fund-raising efforts for
counseling and vocational training for area veterans.

LOAD-DATE: October 14, 1993

LANGUAGE: English

                  Copyright 1990 St. Louis Post-Dispatch, Inc.


                              249 of 268 DOCUMENTS

                       St. Louis Post-Dispatch (Missouri)

                  May 23, 1990, WEDNESDAY, THREE STAR Edition

ANTI-SEMITISM'S EVIL SEEN IN INEXPLICABILITY

BYLINE: William Pfaff

SECTION: EDITORIAL; Pg. 3C

LENGTH: 827 words


PARIS The question that must be asked about the manifestations of anti-Semitism
in France is, Why here? One might also turn the question around and ask, if
here, why anti-Semitism?  There is racism in France, certainly. The successes of
the far-right National Front are linked to popular anxiety about the number of
immigrants in France.  But those immigrants are not Jewish. The Algerians and
other North Africans in France are the principal objects of hostility. They are
poor, conspicuously non-French, ghettoized.  One might think that people who are
anti-Arab should logically be pro-Israeli and pro-Jewish. But Jean-Marie Le Pen,
the leader of the National Front, has repeatedly and gratuitously introduced
anti-Semitic remarks into his statements and speeches, attacking individual
Jews, playing on stereotypes of Jewish media-domination, making complicitous
allusions to the revisionist argument about the Nazi death camps - a ''detail''
of wartime history, he says.  Less than 1 percent of the French population is
Jewish. Unlike what often is thought, France is not a country with a strong
anti-Semitic tradition.  Racism usually is associated with reaction against an
unassimilated foreign community, which is the case with the North African
immigrants. But the Jewish community is highly integrated, more so even than in
the United States.  It is not politically controversial.  The public
manifestation of shock and outrage after the profanation of the Jewish cemetery
in Carpentras and the mutilation of a disinterred body was great and was
genuine. The march of protest in Paris was one of the largest public
demonstrations of recent years. The president of the republic himself took part,
which has not happened since the war, and Christian and Muslim dignitaries were
present.  So how is the atrocity in Carpentras to be explained, and the
desecration of other Jewish cemeteries that followed, and the outbreak of
anti-Semitic graffiti on shops and monuments? The brutal attack on a
schoolteacher in the town of Royan, who had devoted a class period to
anti-racism, was accompanied by accusations that she was a ''filthy Jew'' and a
''filthy Arab.'' Many other countries have not welcomed Jewish immigrants, as
France has.  Others have more virulent histories of anti-Semitism. In others
anti-Semitism is mixed up with class conflict, national struggle (in the Middle
East), anti-communism (in Poland and Hungary, where Jews were prominent in the
postwar communist regimes). In France such factors do not exist or are very
minor.  The sinister aspect of the recent events is that there should be no
explanation. The singularity of the French case is that it recalls to us the
gratuitousness of anti-Semitism.  Anti-Semitism has always had a gratuitous
aspect: Why the persistent hatred of these particular people? Hatred exists;
when it has nothing else to fix upon it fixes on the Jews. That has been true in
Western society, at least.  Carpentras provided a frightening remainder of this.
But then it is perhaps just as well that from time to time we are made to think
about evil.  SOURCE: Copyright 1990 Los Angeles Times Syndicate

LOAD-DATE: October 14, 1993

LANGUAGE: English

                  Copyright 1990 St. Louis Post-Dispatch, Inc.


                              250 of 268 DOCUMENTS

                       St. Louis Post-Dispatch (Missouri)

                  May 27, 1990, SUNDAY, LATE FIVE STAR Edition

FILM MAKER CHARTS THE ISLANDS OF MEMORY

BYLINE: Ellen Futterman Of the Post-Dispatch Staff

SECTION: EVERYDAY MAGAZINE; Pg. 3H

LENGTH: 1240 words


OVER cups of coffee and warm sourdough bread, independent film maker Loni
Dingdiscussed a few of her documentaries that were featured recently at the
Asian-American arts festival at the University of Missouri at St. Louis.  One,
called ''Island of Secret Memory,'' is the story of a young Chinese-American boy
named Joe and the relationship that existed between him and his immigrant
grandfather.  ''My films are really more documemoirs than documentaries,''
explained Ding, whose San Francisco-based company is called VOX Productions.
''There is an essay quality to them. Often they're first-person accounts based
on composites of real statements from the record, people's recollections, actual
imagery on the record and memory.'' The island in Ding's 20-minute film is Angel
Island in San Francisco Bay, where scores of Chinese immigrants were detained
and interrogated because of America's immigration exclusion laws and quotas from
1882 to 1965. Joe's grandfather was among these Chinese immigrants.  ''It was a
time of economic hardships, racism and color prejudice,'' said Ding, ''and the
Chinese were scapegoats.'' Ding, a San Francisco native born to Chinese
immigrant parents, has spent the past 20 years making films, the majority of
which are about Asian-Americans. She has won four Emmy awards, a Guggenheim
Fellowship and a Director's Fellowship from the American Film Institute.  Those
credentials - as well as the merit of her work - have earned her respect in the
field of documentary film making - and some success in securing money for each
film project. ''Making these films is my passion but it is extremely difficult
to sustain yourself as an independent film maker,'' she said. ''The costs are
overwhelming. Everyone who does what I do goes into debt.'' Years ago, she
taught sociology at the University of California at Berkeley and then worked as
a community arts organizer. But it is her third career - the one as a television
producer and documentary film maker - that has brought her the most joy
professionally.  ''To me, this is a medium that is so rich and powerful and can
translate thoughts, images and experiences better than anything else,'' she
said.  ''To tell you the truth, there isn't much in the commercial film market
that truly impresses me. I am hopeful though that it's opening up to the types
of things I do. I really have nothing against commercial films. It's just that I
have to be able to maintain control and be true to my perspective.'' ''With Silk
Wings,'' another of her films that she showed in St. Louis, profiles the lives
of four Asian-American women - lives galvanized by fulfilling work, ties to
their families and cultural backgrounds. The clip she showed in St. Louis
focused on an organizer with the hotel worker's union in the Bay Area.  ''Her
strength and motivation toward her work directly related to how she felt about
her parents and family,'' Ding said. ''Often times the past can be something
that helps you decide how to make major choices in your life as they currently
unfold.'' Probably her best known film is the 1984 ''The Color of Honor,'' which
tells the story of Japanese-American men who served in the U.S. Armed Forces
during World War II while other Americans of Japanese descent, including some of
the soldiers' families, were being held in government internment camps. The
film, a culmination of six years of research, has been shown frequently on PBS.
It draws from more than 100 interviews with historians, scholars, military
leaders and most importantly, the Nisei - children of Japanese immigrants - who
experienced tremendous inner conflicts and difficult personal choices imposed by
America's war against Japan.  Ding said she found most of her subjects by
talking to dozens upon dozens of people, who would then put her in touch with
others.  ''Just having a story is not enough,'' Ding said. ''It's like
auditioning a character in a play. It doesn't only matter that they have a story
to tell but they also must be able to present that story so that the audience
cares about them and believes in them. They're not just a vehicle for
information to come out. They're not a news anchor.'' Currently, Ding is trying
to secure funds for her latest project - a historical series on Asian-Americans
from their arrival in this country to present day. She expects the project to
take about eight years and plans to trace the history through a person's family
tree.  It was her own family - husband, David Welsh, and two teen-aged children,
May Ying and Elias - Ding said whose support was crucial in helping her achieve
some of her film making goals.  ''My children and husband made many sacrifices
so that I could have my work,'' she said. ''They just know how much I love it.''

LOAD-DATE: October 14, 1993

LANGUAGE: English

GRAPHIC: Photo; Photo by Larry Williams ... Film maker Loni Ding

                  Copyright 1990 St. Louis Post-Dispatch, Inc.


                              251 of 268 DOCUMENTS

                       St. Louis Post-Dispatch (Missouri)

                   June 7, 1990, THURSDAY, FIVE STAR Edition

SOVIETS DROP THREAT ON IMMIGRATION

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 18A

LENGTH: 667 words


TURNBERRY, Scotland - The Soviet Union has withdrawn what appeared to be a
threat by President Mikhail S. Gorbachev to suspend Jewish immigration to
Israel, a senior U.S. official said Wednesday.  U.S. Secretary of State James A.
Baker III was reported to have told Soviet Foreign Minister Eduard A.
Shevardnadze at a meeting Tuesday in Copenhagen, Denmark, that he was concerned
by Gorbachev's statement Sunday in Washington.  The report came from a U.S.
official who spoke on the condition of anonymity.  In reply, Shevardnadze told
Baker that Soviet officials ''had no plan to change their approach, they are
committed to that,'' the U.S. official said aboard Baker's jet.  He said
Shevardnadze had told Baker that Israel would be advised that the Soviet
emigration policy was not being altered.  Baker flew to Turnberry, where he and
Shevardnadze were scheduled to attend a meeting of the North Atlantic Council.
Both Baker and his Soviet counterpart had been in Copenhagen for a 35-nation
human rights conference.  Jewish emigration from the Soviet Union is at a record
high. About 20,000 permits were issued last month, but about 1 million Soviets
are waiting to emigrate.  The United States will take in 70,000 Soviet Jews this
year, and most of the others will go to Israel. About 750,000 are expected to
flood into that country in the next year or two.  Arab nations have expressed
concern about a potential mass settlement of Soviet Jews in the Israeli-occupied
territories. On Sunday, Gorbachev spoke at a joint news conference with
President George Bush and said Israel should not settle Soviet Jews in the West
Bank or Gaza Strip. He said that if Israel did not heed his and Bush's concerns,
the Soviet Union might restrict exit permits.  HEADLINE: Deportees' Return About
250 deported wives and children of Palestinians will be able to return to the
West Bank under a new Israeli policy announced Wednesday.  The change of heart
by the military government of the occupied territories follows months of strong
international and domestic pressure to reunite the broken families.  Many of the
250 deported to Jordan last year were women visitors who overstayed visas after
marrying Palestinians. Most were women whose families fled to Jordan when Israel
seized the West Bank and Gaza in 1967 and who later married men from the
occupied areas.  The state attorney's office said Wednesday that Arabs living in
the occupied lands would be allowed from now on to ask for residency status for
members of their families. They would be allowed to live in the territories
unless there was a ''specific negative security reason'' to deny the request,
the national news agency, Itim, said.

LOAD-DATE: October 14, 1993

LANGUAGE: English

                  Copyright 1990 St. Louis Post-Dispatch, Inc.


                              252 of 268 DOCUMENTS

                       St. Louis Post-Dispatch (Missouri)

                   July 10, 1990, TUESDAY, FIVE STAR Edition

ALBANIANS WELCOMED BY CZECHS HAVEL SENDS PLANE TO CARRY REFUGEES

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 12B

LENGTH: 640 words


PRAGUE, Czechoslovakia - The first of more than 5,000 Albanians who rushed
foreign embassies in Tirana in a desperate bid to emigrate arrived in Prague
early today aboard the personal plane of Czechoslovak President Vaclav Havel.
In Tirana, the Albanian capital, a U.N. envoy was trying to negotiate safe
passage abroad for the thousands stranded in their flight from Europe's last
bastion of hard-line communism.  Hans Schumacher, spokesman for the West German
Foreign Ministry, said in Bonn that a U.N. envoy was representing the West
German, Italian, French and Greek embassies in talks with the Albanian
government.  Havel sent his Soviet-built TU-154 to Tirana. It arrived back about
1:15 a.m. today, carrying 51 Albanians who sought asylum in the Czechoslovak
Embassy.  The beaming occupants, all adults, yelled ''Long live Havel!'' before
being whisked away on buses to dormitories in an outlying district of Prague.
''It's unbelievable. It's like heaven,'' said one emigre after arriving at
Prague's Ruzyne airport.  Czech Foreign Minister Jiri Dienstbier told reporters
at the capital's airport that Czechoslovakia got the refugees out first as a
result of ''a little luck and a lot of patience.'' He said that most of the
group wanted to immigrate to the United States, but that in any event, ''We're
not going to send them back.'' ''Welcome to Czechoslovakia. I'm glad we were
able to help you out,'' Dienstbier told the Albanians.  Clutching their few
belongings and waving to reporters, the Albanians - all but two of them men, and
all in their 20s and early 30s - looked tired but happy and carried a portrait
of Havel from the plane. ''We thank Havel for our freedom,'' one said in Italian
before boarding a bus. As the vehicle left, the Albanians waved and chanted
''Havel, Havel.'' The departure of the Albanians, clearing the Czechoslovak
Embassy of its share of the thousands who have crowded into East and West
European compounds, followed a shakeup in the rigidly orthodox government of
President Ramiz Alia.  In a brief dispatch, Albania's state news agency, ATA,
announced that the group left shortly before midnight Monday.  ATA said that ''a
group of Albanian citizens, sheltering in the Czechoslovak Embassy, left for
Prague with regular documents.'' Although Albanian authorities agreed Saturday
to permit all the Albanian asylum-seekers to leave under foreign supervision,
the process of providing them with travel documents and transportation was
expected to take days.  Albanian authorities continued Monday to refuse aid
shipments for the would-be emigres packed in Western embassies.

LOAD-DATE: October 18, 1993

LANGUAGE: English

GRAPHIC: Photo; PHOTO...AP...An Albanian refugee giving the V sign after
stepping out of Czech President Vaclav Havel's Soviet-made plane early today at
Ruzyne airport in Prague.

                  Copyright 1990 St. Louis Post-Dispatch, Inc.


                              253 of 268 DOCUMENTS

                       St. Louis Post-Dispatch (Missouri)

                  July 12, 1990, THURSDAY, THREE STAR Edition

COLD WAR SUSPICIONS ALIVE IN U.S. AGENCIES

BYLINE: Anthony Lewis

SECTION: EDITORIAL; Pg. 3C

LENGTH: 814 words


BOSTON Leaders of the Western alliance celebrated the Cold War's end with a
declaration that said, ''The walls that once confined people and ideas are
collapsing.'' They pledged their efforts to ''overcome the legacy of decades of
suspicion.'' Can the United States be as forthright in facing the end of the
Cold War in its own attitudes? We, too, are challenged to ''overcome the legacy
of decades of suspicion.'' An example is the ideological test imposed on
foreigners who want to visit the United States.  Since 1952, American law has
barred aliens who are communists, anarchists or supporters of radical doctrine.
Eminent authors and others have been excluded on suspicion of being in that
category, to the United States' repeated embarrassment.  The State Department
and the Immigration and Naturalization Service keep a list of suspected
characters who may try to enter. It is called the National Automated Immigration
Lookout System, or NAILS. Its astonishing dimensions were uncovered last month
in a Freedom of Information Act suit by the Lawyers Committee for Human Rights.
Since 1980, 238,140 listings have been put into the system, most of them in the
category of ideological exclusions. There are some duplications, but it seems
that more than 200,000 people were designated as ideologically unfit to enter
the United States in the last 10 years.  In the first three months of this year
alone, the State Department added 4,390 new entries reflecting denial of visas
on ideological grounds. In February, Congress passed and President Bush signed a
law providing that no one may be denied a visitor's visa because of beliefs or
associations that would be protected here by the Constitution.  But suspect
aliens are still being excluded, then required to seek a waiver. Americans also
face restrictions on travel abroad. Executive orders forbid most travel to Cuba,
Vietnam, North Korea, Cambodia and Iran. It is long past time to stop limiting
Americans' right to travel for ideological reasons.  The Cold War has badly
compromised the American constitutional premise that government is accountable
to the people. Vast areas of government activity are now cloaked, for asserted
reasons of national security, in a secrecy that prevents effective discussion of
policy.  Increasingly in recent years judges have allowed the government to
impose restrictions on hearings, often denying citizens a real opportunity to
challenge official policy. Then there is government surveillance.  All those
areas cry out for a re-examination of Cold War premises.  President Bush would
do well to ask for advice from a special committee of his administration or a
commission. The kind of hard look that is needed is not likely to come from
administrators who are used to the existing system and to the protection that
secrecy gives them.  American ideals of freedom and openness had a good deal to
do with inspiring the revolution in Eastern Europe. They are in the minds of the
true democrats in the Soviet Union. We should renew our commitment to them as
the Cold War ends.  SOURCE: Copyright 1990 New York Times News Service

LOAD-DATE: October 18, 1993

LANGUAGE: English

                  Copyright 1990 St. Louis Post-Dispatch, Inc.


                              254 of 268 DOCUMENTS

                       St. Louis Post-Dispatch (Missouri)

                  August 4, 1990, SATURDAY, FIVE STAR Edition

POLICE HEAD RESIGNS FOR WASHINGTON JOB

BYLINE: Louis J. Rose Of the Post-Dispatch Staff

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 1A

LENGTH: 854 words


County Police Superintendent Gilbert H. Kleinknecht has resigned after 17 years
in the post and accepted the top law-enforcement job with the U.S.  Immigration
and Naturalization Service.  His appointment was announced Friday in Washington
by INS Commissioner Gene McNary, a longtime friend and the former St. Louis
County Executive.  Kleinknecht, 52, will take over his new job Sept. 4. His
salary will be about $79,200. His current salary is about $78,000 a year.  ''I
look at this as a once-in-a-lifetime opportunity,'' Kleinknecht said.  ''It is
an opportunity for me to continue in my profession at a bigger and more
responsible level.  ''It is a career position,'' he said. ''I am not going up
there to work as a political appointee.'' He said he could be removed from the
federal post only for cause.  During his tenure as police superintendent,
Kleinknecht has built a reputation as a no-nonsense leader. He said he hoped he
would be remembered ''as an honest crime fighter who maintained the highest
ethics'' of law enforcement.  In his new job as associate commissioner for
enforcement, Kleinknecht will manage a staff of 6,000 employees. He will be
responsible for planning and directing all enforcement activities, including the
Border Patrol, investigations, anti-smuggling efforts and detention, deportation
and intelligence operations. He also will assist McNary in setting immigration
enforcement policies.  As police superintendent, Kleinknecht has commanded a
force of more than 500 police officers and 164 civilian employees.  McNary, in
Washington, said he was delighted that Kleinknecht had accepted the appointment.
''Having worked with Gil Kleinknecht in St. Louis County for many years, I know
he has the leadership and managerial ability to direct our enforcement
operations under the highest professional standards,'' McNary said.  The County
Board of Police Commissioners will choose a replacement.  Several police
officers said they believed the board would reach outside the department for a
new superintendent, as it did with Kleinknecht and the man he succeeded, Robert
di Grazia. Before taking over as county police superintendent in April 1973,
Kleinknecht was chief of police in Huntington, W. Va., for seven years.  Names
of several high-ranking members of the county police department also have
surfaced as potential successors.  They include Maj. Gerald Mizell, executive
director of the division of uniform patrol; Maj. Thomas Moonier, executive
director of the division of auxiliary services; Maj. Ronald Battelle, executive
director of the division of criminal investigation; and Maj. Lawrence Wadsack,
executive director of the division of special operations.  Kleinknecht said
McNary told him about the Immigration job in April when both men were in San
Diego. He said he then applied for the post.  Kleinknecht said he had gone to
San Diego for three days as a special consultant to help the INS automate its
fingerprint system.  eCt Kleinknecht said the County Police had made many
advances in his 17 years at the helm.  He said he was proud of the department's
role in setting up a new police training academy, modernizing the police
laboratory and automating the fingerprint system and the police reporting
system. The department also deserves praise for closing down 23 massage parlors
where prostitution flourished and for shutting down distributors of rental
pornographic videos, he said.

LOAD-DATE: October 18, 1993

LANGUAGE: English

GRAPHIC: Photo; PHOTO HEADSHOT (COLOR) of (Gilbert H.) Kleinknecht PHOTO
HEADSHOT ...  Gene McNary ... Praises appointment

                  Copyright 1990 St. Louis Post-Dispatch, Inc.


                              255 of 268 DOCUMENTS

                       St. Louis Post-Dispatch (Missouri)

                   August 6, 1990, MONDAY, FIVE STAR Edition

KLEINKNECHT WON'T ALTER PHILOSOPHY 'TOUGH MINDED COP' TO HEAD THE 6,000;
OFFICERS OF THE BORDER PATROL

BYLINE: Phil Linsalata Of the Post-Dispatch Staff

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 3A

LENGTH: 1054 words


Gilbert H. Kleinknecht said Sunday that when he accepted Gene McNary's
invitation to head the country's border police, he did so with McNary's offer to
''just be yourself.'' That means being a ''tough-minded cop'' with a fundamental
belief that ''police officers are civil authorities put here by God,''
Kleinknecht said.  Kleinknecht, 52, is taking early retirement from his position
as County Police Superintendent to report for duty to the Immigration and
Naturalization Service on Sept. 4.  The size of his force will increase almost
tenfold, from about 660 here to about 6,000 border patrol officers,
anti-smuggling agents and administrative workers.  His income will stay about
the same, going from $78,000 to an entry-level salary of $79,200 annually. In
two years, he will begin collecting a pension from his county job as well.
Kleinknecht said one of the conditions for taking the job, offered by longtime
friend and colleague McNary, commissioner of the Immigration and Naturalization
Service, is the security that McNary guaranteed by making Kleinknecht a ''career
appointee'' removable only for cause. McNary left his post as county executive
last year to head the immigration service.  Declining to answer specific
questions about his plans as the associate commissioner for enforcement,
Kleinknecht instead discussed his views of law enforcement, developed during his
17-year tenure here.  The foundation of those views is his faith, he said.
''Personally, I believe that police officers are civil authorities put here by
God and that we are servants of God,'' said Kleinknecht, a member of Kirk of the
Hills Presbyterian Church, 12928 Ladue Road, Creve Coeur. He said McNary had
already issued marching orders for Kleinknecht's first year in office.  ''The
first thing I need to address is getting control of the Mexican border and the
number of illegal people coming across,'' Kleinknecht said.  More than one
million aliens without visas stream across the border into California, Texas,
Arizona and New Mexico each year, with fewer than half being apprehended and
returned, Kleinknecht said.  ''My responsibility, through the U.S. Border
Patrol, is to stop the flow of illegal aliens coming into this country,'' he
said.  He said his job would be to improve the effectiveness of the 3,000
officers assigned to the Mexican border.  ''I look at tough law-and-order cops
in a good sense,'' he said. ''That's what police are there for. So to say that
I'm a tough-minded cop? Yes. I wouldn't ask any officer to do something that I
wouldn't do myself.'' That tough-mindedness was evident during his leadership of
the St. Louis County police force.  He cracked down on marijuana users, massage
parlors, X-rated video outlets, drunken drivers, curfew breakers and, most
recently, speeders.  He also earned the wrath of civil rights activists by: His
refusal to discipline an officer who failed to break up a crowd of about 150
whites outside a home in North County that had recently been purchased by a
black postal worker and his family. ''I would have handled it the same way,''
Kleinknecht said after the incident, in August, 1975.  His declaration in a
television interview in July, 1975, that half of all rapes stem from victims
being in the wrong place without an escort. He then refused to deliver an
apology sought by feminists but responded to criticism by establishing a
sex-crimes unit within the department.  His rejection of criticism that his
department's hiring and promotion policies were racially motivated. ''I don't
have to defend my record as an equal opportunity employer,'' he said in 1975,
when 4 percent of his department were members of minorities.  Klienknecht, a
collector of antique toys - most relating to police work - said that his biggest
legacy in St. Louis County would be the department's highly automated
operations.  ''The county police force is probably the most automated department
in the Midwest,'' he said.  And as the new head of the U.S. border police, he
said he would ask ''how automation can make the border patrol officer's job
easier, how we can build morale of INS enforcement people, make them proud and
enthusiastic about what they're doing.''

LOAD-DATE: October 18, 1993

LANGUAGE: English

GRAPHIC: Photo; PHOTO HEADSHOT of Gilbert Kleinknecht

                  Copyright 1990 St. Louis Post-Dispatch, Inc.


                              256 of 268 DOCUMENTS

                       St. Louis Post-Dispatch (Missouri)

                August 12, 1990, SUNDAY, LATE FIVE STAR Edition

BIG BROTHER IS LISTENING

SECTION: EDITORIAL; Pg. 2B

LENGTH: 534 words


Increasingly, it might become dangerous to say ''Gesundheit'' to a sneezing
co-worker. More and more businesses are requiring that their employees speak
only English while on the job. Naturally, businesses couch these workplace
restrictions in the language of improved employee communications and morale, but
many civil rights organizations suspect, with justification, that a subtle
resentment of foreigners is the real issue.  No one quarrels with the idea that
language regulations may be required when they're directly related to job
performance. It is perfectly legal and acceptable, for instance, to demand that
sales clerks in a department store speak English. However, some firms are going
far beyond common sense; they would, for example, forbid these sales clerks from
carrying on conversations among themselves in any language but English. That's
truly an infringement on their freedom of speech.  The English-only movement has
led 16 states to pass laws to make English the official language. In its urgency
to see restrictive language policies implemented, English-only seems to ignore
the most fundamental fact of immigration: Most immigrants are assimilated; most
immigrants learn to speak English. The evidence? U.S. history itself.  The waves
of Germans, Italians, Eastern Europeans, Greeks and many other nationalities
that flooded U.S. shores did not establish permanent linguistic outposts of
their native languages. They learned to speak English. Indeed, in many cases,
the second generation spoke English as well as - if not better than - their
parents' native language. Too often, the third generation spoke only English.
The English-only movement seems to forget that assimilation doesn't happen
overnight.  It also forgets something more basic: The United States is enriched
by diversity - and American English is a testament to that. After all, what
could be more American than snacking on pizza or tacos?

LOAD-DATE: October 18, 1993

LANGUAGE: English

                  Copyright 1990 St. Louis Post-Dispatch, Inc.


                              257 of 268 DOCUMENTS

                       St. Louis Post-Dispatch (Missouri)

                   August 20, 1990, MONDAY, FIVE STAR Edition

CAMPAIGN AIMS TO HELP JEWS  EX-SOVIET WARNS OF ANTI-SEMITISM

BYLINE: Associated Press  SOURCE: By Patricia Corrigan Of the Post-Dispatch
Staff

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 1A

LENGTH: 707 words


Nikolay Ortenberg told a gathering here of Soviet Jews Sunday that they must
help others as they have been helped. Ortenberg, co-chairman of the Russian
Jewish Cultural Center in Chicago and a recent immigrant himself, addressed
about 65 newly settled immigrants at a rally in support of Operation Exodus, the
international emergency rescue program for Soviet Jews.  The rally and a
''Freedom Sunday'' telephone solicitation campaign were held at the Kopolow
Building, 12 Millstone Campus Drive, in the Creve Coeur area Both events were
sponsored by the Jewish Federation of St. Louis.  ''There is a different
definition of the word 'Jew' here and in Russia,'' Ortenberg said before the
rally. ''In America, it refers to a religion.  In the Soviet Union, it is an
ethnic group. You may not be religious at all, but you're still a Jew, and you
are punished because you are a Jew.'' Ortenberg, originally from Odessa, left
the Soviet Union last year with his wife and son, 6, and settled in Chicago. He
is a mechanical engineer.  Ortenberg believes that a civil war is imminent in
the Soviet Union, and he fears that the first victims will be the Jews.  ''A
friend of mine came to Chicago from the Soviet Union just 11 months after I did.
He said we left absolutely different countries,'' Ortenberg said.  ''Certainly,
things have changed. In a period of five months, we saw the reunification of
Germany, a new government in Poland, two revolutions in Romania. I think it may
be different now for Jewish people in Russia.  ''But I think the changes are in
the government, not in the people; in the tactics, but not the strategy,'' he
continued. ''If you have hated Jews for 70 years, you can't suddenly change that
today or even tomorrow. And if there is a civil war, it will be a war of the
people, fighting against each other.'' More than 70,000 Soviet Jews have
resettled in Israel through Operation Exodus. Another 150,000 refugees are
expected to reach Israel by the end of this year. Money from Operation Exodus
pays for transportation from the Soviet Union and resettlement in Israel and the
United States.  Since January 1989, about 500 Soviet Jews have resettled in St.
Louis. An additional 100 are expected to arrive here by the end of this year.
Marlyn Essman, local chairwoman of Operation Exodus, hopes to raise $7.6 million
this year. So far, $5.4 million has been raised, and Essman said that figure set
a local record.  Deborah Corson, chairman of Freedom Sunday, said: ''We had
raised more than $5 million before we started phoning people. The response has
been wonderful.'' Fifty people staffed telephones in a room at the Kopolow
Building. The telephone solicitation campaign runs through Thursday and has a
goal of $250,000, enough money to sponsor one planeload of 220 men, women and
children. By 9 p.m. Sunday, $147,884 had been pledged.  ''There are about 3
million Jews in the Soviet Union, and 1 million have applied for exit visas. Our
goal is to get them out,'' Corson said. ''Right now, that is possible. But you
never know when the situation in the Soviet Union may change.''

LOAD-DATE: October 18, 1993

LANGUAGE: English

GRAPHIC: Photo; PHOTO (COLOR) by Karen Elshout/Post-Dispatch ... Sofia Berstein
(left) greeting guest speaker Nikolay Ortenberg Sunday at a rally in support of
Operation Exodus, an emergency rescue program for Soviet Jews.

                  Copyright 1990 St. Louis Post-Dispatch, Inc.


                              258 of 268 DOCUMENTS

                       St. Louis Post-Dispatch (Missouri)

                September 12, 1990, WEDNESDAY, FIVE STAR Edition

ISRAEL YEAR'S 100,000TH IMMIGRANT ARRIVES

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 12A

LENGTH: 174 words


Israel welcomed on Tuesday this year's 100,000th immigrant, the latest newcomer
in a flood that has proved a mixed blessing for that nation. The immigrants,
almost 90 percent Soviets, are helping to build Israel's Jewish population and
fulfilling the national goal of ''the ingathering of the exiles.'' But the wave
of immigration, the largest since the early days of the state, is severely
straining resources.  Just slightly larger than New Jersey and with a population
of about 4.5 million, Israel is grappling with how to resettle the 150,000
Soviet Jews expected this year and the 1 million who could arrive by the
decade's end.  SOURCE: Associated Press

LOAD-DATE: October 18, 1993

LANGUAGE: English

                  Copyright 1990 St. Louis Post-Dispatch, Inc.


                              259 of 268 DOCUMENTS

                       St. Louis Post-Dispatch (Missouri)

                 November 1, 1990, THURSDAY, FIVE STAR Edition

U.S. AID TO IMMIGRANTS IN ISRAEL IS POSTPONED

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 14A

LENGTH: 454 words


JERUSALEM - The United States has delayed financial aid to Soviet immigrants
here following controversy over Israeli promises not to settle the newcomers in
Arab lands captured in the 1967 Middle East war.  Israeli officials Wednesday
blamed ''unauthorized information'' from Israel and technical delays for holding
up U.S. guarantees to repay $400 million in commercial loans to house an influx
of Soviet Jewish immigrants. But five newspapers and army radio said Secretary
of State James A. Baker III had barred a U.S. team from going to Israel to work
out details until it was assured the newcomers would settle inside the pre-1967
borders of the state.  President George Bush regards as an obstacle to peace the
90,000 Jews living in settlements among the 1.75 million Palestinians of the
occupied West Bank and Gaza Strip waging a 34-month-old anti-Israeli revolt.
''Various questions have come up from information in Israel, unauthorized
information, and I believe this thing has been resolved now,'' Israel's U.S.
Ambassador Zalman Shoval told the radio from Washington.  ''And if there are
failures here and there, they are technical and could be among the American
offices themselves,'' he said.  ''I believe things will be cleared up in a few
days.'' HEADLINE: Arab Labor Limit Defense Minister Moshe Arens is proposing a
program to limit Palestinians working in Israel while creating jobs for them in
the occupied territories, his spokesman said Wednesday.  Spokesman Dan Naveh
said Arens' proposal would reverse the policy allowing Palestinians to work in
Israel - a policy followed since Israel captured the territories in 1967.

LOAD-DATE: October 18, 1993

LANGUAGE: English

                  Copyright 1990 St. Louis Post-Dispatch, Inc.


                              260 of 268 DOCUMENTS

                       St. Louis Post-Dispatch (Missouri)

                  November 9, 1990, FRIDAY, FIVE STAR Edition

WOES BESET MCNARY'S AGENCY

BYLINE: Bob Adams Post-Dispatch Washington Bureau Chief

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 1A

LENGTH: 1294 words


WASHINGTON - Attorney General Dick Thornburgh has appointed a special task force
to help former St. Louis County Executive Gene McNary reform the nation's
immigration service after congressional investigators found that the agency
still has major problems.  ''The INS (Immigration and Naturalization Service
must be better able to respond to its mission in a more efficient manner,''
Thornburgh said.  A draft report by the General Accounting Office, the
investigative arm of Congress, has found that many long-standing problems
continue at the troubled agency.  Thornburgh and the GAO investigators
acknowledged that many of the problems existed before McNary was appointed
commissioner of the immigration service in October 1989. But the naming of a
blue-ribbon group to aid him appeared to be a sign that Thornburgh believes
McNary has yet to bring the problems under control.  The draft GAO report
credited McNary with taking some steps in the right direction. But it said much
more was needed to transform what it described as a ''chaotic'' budget process
and resolve other problems.  A spokesman for the immigration agency, Verne
Jervis, said McNary would not comment until he had formally responded to the GAO
report.  The draft report was obtained by the Scripps Howard news service. It
describes an agency in turmoil as it grapples with a $1-billion-a-year budget
and a history of poor management.  ''Although the problems facing INS did not
occur overnight, INS needs to take a number of immediate actions,'' the draft
report said. Among those it recommended: Stop the overlap in functions between
the Border Patrol and the Investigations Division.  Address what it called ''the
crisis situation'' at the agency's detention centers.  Improve service to the
public and reduce inspectors' overtime.  ''The attorney general and the
commissioner of INS must articulate a vision of how INS is to operate to
effectively carry out its role of implementing the nation's immigration
policy,'' the GAO said. ''The approach to dealing with INS has been too ad hoc
over the years.'' A key problem identified by the GAO was lack of centralized
control. Over the years, regional directors had built up virtual fiefdoms.  The
GAO report noted that in early 1990, McNary took steps to centralize the agency.
Some of McNary's proposals had not been approved by the Justice Department - the
parent agency of the Immigration and Naturalization Service - as of September,
the GAO said. It said McNary's moves were improvements but fell short of fully
addressing the agency's problems.  The agency was considered something of a
bureaucratic basket case when McNary took over a year ago. One of the reasons
cited by President George Bush's administration for the appointment of McNary,
who lacked experience in immigration law, was his experience as a manager in St.
Louis County.  One example of poor management cited by GAO involved the transfer
of money in cash rather than checks. The report said that as of June, 29 field
offices were mailing cash to banks for deposit, according to an internal agency
review.  In June, the report said, the agency projected a $45 million shortfall
in fees for examinations received in that fiscal year. ''As of September 1990,
(the INS Comptroller had not determined the reasons for this shortfall,'' the
report said.  It said that as the agency's law-enforcement responsibilities had
increased, ''INS leadership has not clearly delineated activities among the
various enforcement programs. . . .'' As a result, the GAO said, there was
overlap in various parts of the agency.  As an example, it said the Border
Patrol - which is generally responsible for preventing foreigners from entering
the United States illegally - had become increasingly involved in
investigations.  ''The Border Patrol now has stations in such places as Grand
Rapids, Mich., and Roseberg, Ore., far from the border,'' the report said.  It
quoted three-fourths of the enforcement managers questioned by the GAO as saying
that some of their unit's work was duplicated by another office of the
Immigration and Naturalization Service. Both the Border Patrol and the
Investigative Division conduct investigations of employers suspected of hiring
illegal aliens, the report said. Yet each group receives guidance from
difference offices within the agency. Thus different investigative and penalty
strategies are being used in the same jurisdiction, the GAO said.  The GAO said
there was a ''critical need'' for more detention centers because of the
increased number of foreigners who are apprehended trying to enter the United
States from countries other than Mexico and thus cannot be easily deported. It
noted that although some new detention centers had been built, they were
hampered by staffing shortages.  A new detention center at Florence, Ariz., was
completed last March. But because of staff shortages, it is operating at less
than 25 percent capacity, the report said.  Heading the task force to aid McNary
will be Norman Carlson, who for 17 years was director of the federal Bureau of
Prisons. Other members will include management experts in the Justice Department
and from organizations outside the federal government.

LOAD-DATE: October 18, 1993

LANGUAGE: English

GRAPHIC: Photo; Photo Headshot - Gene McNary, Getting help

                  Copyright 1990 St. Louis Post-Dispatch, Inc.


                              261 of 268 DOCUMENTS

                       St. Louis Post-Dispatch (Missouri)

                November 14, 1990, WEDNESDAY, FIVE STAR Edition

MCNARY RIPPED BY OWN COUNSEL

BYLINE: Bob Adams Post-Dispatch Washington Bureau Chief

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 1A

LENGTH: 1520 words


WASHINGTON - Former St. Louis County Executive Gene McNary, head of the
Immigration and Naturalization Service, has been sharply criticized in a series
of private memos by his agency's own legal counsel.  The memos were sent by
William Cook, counsel for the agency, to William Barr, the deputy U.S. attorney
general. Copies of the documents were obtained Tuesday by the Post-Dispatch.  In
three separate memos, Cook blisters McNary for what Cook charges are
deficiencies in both McNary's policies and his management of the immigration
service. Barr is the No. 2 official in the Department of Justice, the parent
agency of the INS.  In one memo, Cook accused McNary of hiring ''St. Louis
cronies'' and said ''no more'' should be hired. Cook said McNary wanted to hire
a budget expert from St. Louis for the agency but had not been allowed to do so.
Cook ripped McNary's running of the agency on almost all counts. Cook said that
McNary had a reputation in Congress ''as a lightweight,'' that McNary was
''completely freewheeling'' in his dealings with members of Congress, and that
when McNary testified before Congress, ''he is almost always unprepared, due to
a lack of study.'' Cook derided McNary as ''a press-release politician. He sees
his press as the only relevant barometer of how he is doing on the job.'' He
said that McNary was convinced he had control of the immigration service but
that since McNary ''has not removed any of the incompetents'' who worked for his
predecessor, ''the inmates are once again running the asylum. The field (office
network has been brought to a virtual standstill, as the people with new control
of the money settle old turf scores.'' Cook wrote: ''The management team he has
brought in is more adept at fighting with each other than fighting illegal
immigration. When he is out of town, the power grab is on.'' Cook's criticisms
said CMcNary had denigrated Attorney General Dick Thornburgh. Cook recommended
that McNary's reorganization plan be killed - as it later was.  McNary was not
available for comment. The immigration service press office referred inquiries
to the Department of Justice.  In a statement, Rex Ford, associate deputy
attorney general, said, his office believed that ''the long-standing problems in
INS will be addressed by the management team recently named by the attorney
general.'' He said, ''We expect Commissioner McNary will work closely with this
group to rectify these problem areas,'' Ford said.  ''While we will heed any
constructive criticism, we do not find gossip about internal bickering within
INS either useful or relevant to this process.'' A congressional source, who
asked not to be identified, said it was well known that Cook and McNary did not
get along.  ''The squabbling had been going on for months,'' the source said.
''We just hadn't seen it on paper.'' The source also recalled that a similar
incident had occurred under McNary's immediate predecessor, Alan C. Nelson.
Nelson's counsel wrote memos critical of Nelson to the attorney general's
office, and the memos were leaked to the press.  The source noted that the memos
were used in easing Nelson out of his job - although the counsel left the agency
as well.oa ''If history repeats itself, it's bye-bye McNary,'' the source said.
But that source and others noted McNary had got his job through President George
Bush, not Thornburgh.  e Cook wrote of McNary's working habits: ''He gets in
early and leaves early, being gone most days by 5 or 5:30. When he is in town,
he spends a lot of time in outside meetings, almost never reads the briefing
material prepared for him, and sits at his desk reading the newspapers. When he
travels, he almost always takes his wife, includes her in on the meetings,
thereby creating the impression that he is on some kind of holiday.'' As for
McNary's relations with the Justice Department and Thornburgh, Cook wrote:
''McNary's coordination with the Department has been terrible. It is predicated
on his oft expressed belief that the AG (Thornburgh is mortally wounded,
politically, and will soon be leaving.'' Because of that, Cook wrote, McNary
often failed to clear his statements or coordinate his actions with the Justice
Department in advance. ''He is constantly saying that the 'AG and his minions
are going to get a call from the president if they continue to interfere' with
Gene's operation of INS.'' tM Disclosure of the memos comes soon after a draft
report by the General Accounting Office, the investigative agency of Congress.
The GAO report cited numerous problems in the immigration service. While the GAO
said that the problems predated McNary, who was named commissioner in October
1989, it faulted him for not moving aggressively enough to solve them.  Shortly
after the report, the Department of Justice announced the formation of a special
team to help McNary straighten out the agency.  But Cook wrote that McNary had
made ''derisive comments to his executive staff about the AG and his senior
advisers.'' Samples, according to Cook, included saying ''he's an idiot,'' of
one official; ''trying to screw me on personnel,'' of another; ''trying to run
INS'' of a third.  Ja In another memo, Cook said McNary had run into trouble
with his Justice Department superiors ''by engaging in 'ready, fire, aim'
discussions with the press.'' In a third memo, apparently written late last
summer, Cook complained to Barr that McNary was shutting Cook out because ''he
feels that I have been disloyal to him and a conduit of information to you.''
Cook said McNary had stopped telling Cook about many plans ''because he thinks I
will tell you (Barr.'' Cook came to the immigration service as counsel from the
main Justice Department when McNary took over the immigration job. McNary was
reported by one source to have seen Cook's memos, but it was unclear if he had
taken any action against Cook.

LOAD-DATE: October 18, 1993

LANGUAGE: English

GRAPHIC: Photo; Photo (COLOR) ... Gene McNary - Immigration chief

                  Copyright 1990 St. Louis Post-Dispatch, Inc.


                              262 of 268 DOCUMENTS

                       St. Louis Post-Dispatch (Missouri)

                 November 20, 1990, TUESDAY, FIVE STAR Edition

HOLD FAST TO LANDS, SHAMIR SAYS ISRAELIS, MIDEAST LEADERS CRITICISE PREMIER'S;
STANCE

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 12A

LENGTH: 760 words


JERUSALEM - Prime Minister Yitzhak Shamir has called for keeping all the land
from the Mediterranean Sea to the Jordan River ''for future generations and for
the mass immigration'' of Soviet Jews.  The statement Sunday to members of
Shamir's right-wing Likud bloc drew immediate criticism in Israel and abroad:
Egypt accused Shamir of ''expansionist intentions.'' The opposition Labor Party
said that debate over Shamir's remark could interfere with a wave of Soviet
immigration.  Palestinian and Arab leaders began a campaign to block immigration
of thousands of Soviet Jews. The Arabs fear that the immigrants will displace
Palestinians in the occupied West Bank and Gaza Strip.  Shamir's comments also
risked a fresh row with the United States, Israel's closest ally. The United
States views the settlement of more than 90,000 Jews in the occupied territories
as an obstacle to peace and assailed Shamir for a similar statement in January.
Israel radio quoted Shamir as telling a memorial service for Likud politicians:
''The party leaders left us a clear message to keep the land of Israel from the
sea to the Jordan (River for future generations and for the mass immigration and
for the Jewish people, most of whom will be gathered into this country.'' Shamir
denied later that he was returning to his earlier theme of ''a greater Israel''
- which would include the occupied territories - to accommodate the thousands of
arriving Soviet Jews, Israeli newspapers said.  ''There is no connection
whatever between our maintaining the territorial integrity of Eretz Israel (the
land of Israel between the sea and the Jordan River - which is a vital security
necessity for the state of Israel - and the mass immigration, which is the
fulfillment of the great Zionist dream,'' The Jerusalem Post quoted him as
saying. But in Cairo, Egyptian Foreign Minister Ismat Abdel-Meguid ordered
Israel's ambassador to explain the remarks. ''Egypt rejects in its totality . .
.  Shamir's comments, which indicate his expansionist intention to occupy
territories belonging to someone else, and this cannot help reach a peaceful
settlement to the Palestinian issue,'' a ministry statement said.  Chaim Ramon,
head of the Labor Party faction in Parliament, also was critical. ''I am calling
on the prime minister to be quiet, for heaven's sake,'' Ramon said. ''He is
risking the chances of immigration.'' U.N. Credentials At Issue Arab delegates
to the United Nations agreed Monday to abandon efforts to have Israel's U.N.
credentials rejected and to press instead for an amendment making it clear that
the credentials did not cover Israeli-occupied territories. Israel's U.N.
mission said it would reject any approach that singled it out.  Every year since
1982, when the U.N. credentials committee's report has come to the General
Assembly, the Arab group has called for an exception to be made in the case of
the Israeli delegation. Each time, the move has failed, after a Scandinavian
delegate submitted a motion for no action.

LOAD-DATE: October 18, 1993

LANGUAGE: English

                  Copyright 1990 St. Louis Post-Dispatch, Inc.


                              263 of 268 DOCUMENTS

                       St. Louis Post-Dispatch (Missouri)

                 November 20, 1990, TUESDAY, THREE STAR Edition

HOLD FAST TO LANDS, SHAMIR SAYS ISRAELIS, MIDEAST LEADERS CRITICIZE PREMIER'S;
STANCE

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 12A

LENGTH: 760 words


JERUSALEM - Prime Minister Yitzhak Shamir has called for keeping all the land
from the Mediterranean Sea to the Jordan River ''for future generations and for
the mass immigration'' of Soviet Jews.  The statement Sunday to members of
Shamir's right-wing Likud bloc drew immediate criticism in Israel and abroad:
Egypt accused Shamir of ''expansionist intentions.'' The opposition Labor Party
said that debate over Shamir's remark could interfere with a wave of Soviet
immigration.  Palestinian and Arab leaders began a campaign to block immigration
of thousands of Soviet Jews. The Arabs fear that the immigrants will displace
Palestinians in the occupied West Bank and Gaza Strip.  Shamir's comments also
risked a fresh row with the United States, Israel's closest ally. The United
States views the settlement of more than 90,000 Jews in the occupied territories
as an obstacle to peace and assailed Shamir for a similar statement in January.
Israel radio quoted Shamir as telling a memorial service for Likud politicians:
''The party leaders left us a clear message to keep the land of Israel from the
sea to the Jordan (River for future generations and for the mass immigration and
for the Jewish people, most of whom will be gathered into this country.'' Shamir
denied later that he was returning to his earlier theme of ''a greater Israel''
- which would include the occupied territories - to accommodate the thousands of
arriving Soviet Jews, Israeli newspapers said.  ''There is no connection
whatever between our maintaining the territorial integrity of Eretz Israel (the
land of Israel between the sea and the Jordan River - which is a vital security
necessity for the state of Israel - and the mass immigration, which is the
fulfillment of the great Zionist dream,'' The Jerusalem Post quoted him as
saying. But in Cairo, Egyptian Foreign Minister Ismat Abdel-Meguid ordered
Israel's ambassador to explain the remarks. ''Egypt rejects in its totality . .
.  Shamir's comments, which indicate his expansionist intention to occupy
territories belonging to someone else, and this cannot help reach a peaceful
settlement to the Palestinian issue,'' a ministry statement said.  Chaim Ramon,
head of the Labor Party faction in Parliament, also was critical. ''I am calling
on the prime minister to be quiet, for heaven's sake,'' Ramon said. ''He is
risking the chances of immigration.'' Ramon apparently was referring to furor
that erupted over Shamir's earlier comments.  Coalition Protested Butchers
handed out hundreds of free ham sandwiches Monday in Jerusalem to protest
government efforts to limit the sale of pork. In Tel Aviv, protesters gathered
in front of Likud headquarters and distributed black veils to passing women,
saying that Israel was on the way to becoming a theocracy like Iran.  Shamir has
promised to push the anti-pork law and other sweeping religious legislation
through parliament in exchange for the support of a small, ultra-Orthodox party
that joined his ruling coalition last week.

LOAD-DATE: October 18, 1993

LANGUAGE: English

                  Copyright 1990 St. Louis Post-Dispatch, Inc.


                              264 of 268 DOCUMENTS

                       St. Louis Post-Dispatch (Missouri)

                 November 22, 1990, THURSDAY, FIVE STAR Edition

IMMIGRANTS CAN RELATE TO THANKSGIVING

BYLINE: Victor Volland Of the Post-Dispatch Staff

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 10A

LENGTH: 627 words


This land is your land This land is my land From California to the New York
island From the redwood forest to Gulf Stream waters This land was made for you
and me The old Woody Guthrie anthem gathered new meaning when sung in a
smorgasbord of 30 foreign accents Wednesday at a Thanksgiving feast for new
immigrants and refugees.  More than 200 new Americans of every hue sat down
together to eat strange new foods from America's bounty: turkey, cranberry sauce
and pumpkin pie.  For most it was their first acquaintance with the American
celebration of Thanksgiving.  It was the eighth such feast observed at the
International Institute of Metropolitan St. Louis, 3800 Park Avenue.  ''Turkey
yes, holiday no,'' smiled Peter Ivanchuk, a Soviet Ukrainian who had been asked
if there was anything like turkey or Thanksgiving in the Soviet Union. Ivanchuk
came to this country 10 days ago.  Amine Debass Wolemariam, a refugee from
war-torn Ethiopia, was enjoying his first taste of turkey along with his wife,
Tzigereda, and year-old son, Yohana.  A year ago, the family was in a refugee
camp in the Sudan on a considerably poorer diet, said Wolemariam, 36, a medical
technician studying English at the International Institute to help him get a job
here in the same field.  He was asked where he would like to be a year from now.
''I would like to be here in this city - with a job,'' he grinned. Ivanchuk, 36,
who knew only a few words of English, said through an interpreter that he had
flown MiG-21s for the Soviet Air Force and would like to be a commercial pilot
here after learning English.  He left the Soviet Union and the military pilot
job he loved because, he said, he did not want to kill anyone. Ivanchuk attended
the midday dinner with his wife, Vera, and their four children: Pavel, 12;
Lyudmila, 10; Olga, 7; and Nelly, 4.  Mark Wetterau, chief executive officer of
Shop 'n Save Stores, dished out turkey, dressing, mashed potatoes and gravy,
cranberries and apple pie and pumpkin pie to the immigrants. The grocery chain
donated the food for the feast.  The International Institute, a United Way
agency, provides food, clothing and money to refugees until they can make their
own way. It also offers counseling and interpreting and translation services to
immigrants, helps newcomers find work and conducts English classes.

LOAD-DATE: October 18, 1993

LANGUAGE: English

GRAPHIC: Photo; Photo by Wayne Crosslin/Post-Dispatch - Rukiy Mohamed and her
one-year-old daughter, Fahra Mohamed, enjoying a Thanksgiving dinner Wednesday
afternoon at the International Institute of Metropolitan St.  Louis. About 200
people attended the dinner for immigrants and refugees.

                  Copyright 1990 St. Louis Post-Dispatch, Inc.


                              265 of 268 DOCUMENTS

                       St. Louis Post-Dispatch (Missouri)

                  November 23, 1990, FRIDAY, FIVE STAR Edition

SOVIET IMMIGRANTS BOOST ISRAEL'S STOCK

BYLINE: James Flanigan

SECTION: BUSINESS; Pg. 11C

LENGTH: 1254 words


While the world is focused on the Persian Gulf, on President Bush, U.S.
forcesand Saddam Hussein's Iraq, events are occurring in Israel that may bring a
better future to the Middle East.  This year Israel expects to take in between
100,000 and 200,000 immigrants from the Soviet Union. And the flow could reach
350,000 next year, says Deputy Prime Minister Moshe Nissim, who is also minister
of trade and industry.  Indeed, Israel's 4.5 million population will expand by
an astounding 25 percent in the next five years, Nissim predicts.  Moreover, the
Soviet emigres are the kind of people economists these days call ''excellent
human capital'' - relatively well-educated and young, with the skills needed for
electronic and biochemical industries. Long term, there's little doubt that the
newcomers will give a boost to Israel's economy.  But short term they present
Israel with a challenge to find housing and work. SoNissim was visiting the
United States this week, trying to attract investment from U.S. companies. He
was offering loan guarantees and tax breaks, as all countries do when seeking
foreign investment. And he had something more to offer - access to the U.S. and
European Community markets because Israel has free trade agreements with both.
Yet Israel has had free trade agreements and skilled technical people - and a
lot of U.S. foreign aid - for decades, but it hasn't succeeded economically.
The economy's early growth, 9 percent a year in Israel's beginnings 40 years
ago, has long since slowed to a crawl. Unemployment is now 10 percent, and the
economy has been in a recession for two years.  The problem is that Israel has
what amounts to a Socialist economy with lots of government control and
regulation of industry. Methods that helped to start a nation in 1948 are now a
burden. For example, great power in the early days was given to the national
labor federation, to dictate policy on employment and also on investment and
social benefits. At one point it owned whole sectors of Israeli industry.
Networks of subsidies are built into the everyday economy. If you work for some
companies you get free electricity; for others you get free transportation.  But
there's no free lunch. Israeli taxation is confiscatory, nearly a 70 percent
marginal rate at income of $20,000. It's an economy that has inspired a lot of
tax evasion and at least the beginnings of tax and bureaucratic reform.  Experts
think Israel should go faster. Even its extraordinary security needs - 17
percent of its economy is devoted to defense, three times the U.S.  level - are
no excuse for a slow economy, says Steve Hanke, a senior fellow at the Institute
for Advanced Political and Strategic Studies in Jerusalem.  ''Taiwan and South
Korea faced great security threats also but freed up their economies and are
thriving. Hong Kong took in many more immigrants than Israel and has prospered
with a free-market economy,'' said Hanke.  What's the point? That the Soviet
immigrants could force Israel to change.  ''Their influx is so massive that
subsidies can be canceled and reforms pushed through in the name of absorbing
the immigrants,'' said Douglas Feith, an expert on the Middle East and a former
member of the National Security Council.  ''The Soviet immigrants have just left
the world's biggest bureaucracy and don't want that in Israel,'' Feith said.
''For example, immigrants are offered either government housing or an allowance
to find their own housing. So many of the Soviet immigrants are taking the
allowances, living three families to an apartment and pooling the money to start
a business.'' Why does a successful Israel matter to Americans? For one thing,
America supports Israel with $3 billion a year in foreign aid, as it supports
practically the whole Middle East - notably Egypt and Jordan, with money, and
Saudi Arabia, with military might. As we see from the troops and tanks now in
the desert, America has a big stake in the region.  An economically improving,
less unstable Middle East would certainly be in the U.S. interest. And an
economically improved Israel could be a model, a lodestar for the region, as
Taiwan, Hong Kong and Singapore are for Asia.  That, of course, is looking past
the present crisis, which must end with U.S. victory. ''I don't know, by
fighting or by political means, the U.S.  has to win,'' Nissim said.  A leading
U.S. strategic expert, who prefers to speak anonymously, puts the stakes
bluntly: ''If Saddam Hussein is allowed to emerge from this crisis with what
looks like victory, then war in the Middle East would be ensured, as Israel
would fight to survive.  ''But if the U.S. is seen to win, then a new era in the
Middle East can begin.'' Maybe a combination of Soviet immigrants and U.S.
troops can make it happen.  SOURCE: 1990, Los Angeles Times

LOAD-DATE: October 18, 1993

LANGUAGE: English

                  Copyright 1990 St. Louis Post-Dispatch, Inc.


                              266 of 268 DOCUMENTS

                       St. Louis Post-Dispatch (Missouri)

                 November 27, 1990, TUESDAY, FIVE STAR Edition

MEXICO, U.S. TALK BUSINESS

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 1A

LENGTH: 907 words


MONTERREY, Mexico - President George Bush, beginning a two-day visit to
Mexicothat will focus on trade, drugs and immigration, pledged Monday to move
rapidly to negotiate a free-trade agreement.  An agreement is also a top
priority of Mexican President Carlos Salinas de Gortari.  Arriving in Monterrey,
a northern industrial city at midday, Bush immediately flew by helicopter to
Agualeguas, a town of about 5,000 where Salinas' family home is situated. The
town is about 30 miles from the Texas border.  Bush and his wife, Barbara,
attended a rodeo with Salinas and his wife, Cecilia, watched folk dancing in the
town plaza and walked to Salinas' house for lunch and talks.  Bush returned to
Monterrey Monday evening and is scheduled to meet with business leaders today.
''Let's commence a new era for both our nations,'' Bush said, addressing tens of
thousands of people at an evening welcoming ceremony in a plaza.  ''Viva
Mexico!'' Bush declared.  ''I've come to Mexico tonight with a message of
respect . . . and hope for a brighter future shared by our two countries,'' Bush
said. He called the ending of trade barriers vital to both nations.  ''I believe
that U.S.-Mexican relations have never been better,'' he said.  The visit to
Mexico is sandwiched between two longer foreign trips, last week's marathon to
Europe and the Persian Gulf and a seven-day trip to five Latin American nations
beginning Sunday.  At the top of the agenda is the proposal for a U.S.-Mexican
free-trade agreement. Salinas, who has instituted major economic change since
his election in 1988, has pushed for the negotiations as a further spur to his
nation's economy.  In September, Bush notified Congress of his intention to move
ahead on a ''fast track.'' Congress is expected to approve the request by next
spring, and both nations say such an agreement, which would eliminate trade
barriers, could be completed by 1992.  ''Our overall purpose can be expressed
simply,'' Bush said in an interview with the Mexican news agency Notimex last
week. ''We want to increase the economic well-being of both our people.''
American labor unions fear that such an agreement will eliminate many U.S.
manufacturing jobs because of low wages in Mexico. But White House Press
Secretary Marlin Fitzwater said Monday, ''We want a free-trade agreement that
would create jobs.'' Mexico is the third-largest U.S. trading partner, behind
Canada and Japan, with about $52 billion in goods exchanged last year.  Canada,
which already has a free-trade agreement with the United States, has asked to
become a partner in the U.S.-Mexican trade negotiations.  Fitzwater said a
meeting of the three nations would be held in Houston on Tuesday.  But Bush said
in his interview last week that he would not allow Canadian interests to get in
the way of the U.S.-Mexico negotiations.  U.S. Trade Representative Carla Hills
said Monday that Bush and Salinas were not expected to discuss oil as part of
their trade talks, although Mexico's oil industry will probably be part of the
eventual trade negotiations.  The Mexican constitution bars foreign investment
in its oil industry.  Bush is expected to give Salinas an update on the Persian
Gulf. Mexico increased its oil production by 100,000 barrels a day to help
offset production lost by the Iraqi invasion of Kuwait. But because of
diminished investment in the oil industry in the 1980s, Mexico cannot take
advantage of the demand for oil in the way Venezuela did after the invasion.
Bush and Salinas also are expected to talk about efforts to fight illegal drugs,
although the dispute over the prosecution of a Mexican doctor implicated in the
killing of Drug Enforcement Administration agent Enrique Camarena clouds the
discussions. Mexico said the doctor was kidnapped.  Also, peace talks in El
Salvador will be on the agenda.

LOAD-DATE: October 18, 1993

LANGUAGE: English

GRAPHIC: Photo; Photo (COLOR) by AP ... President George Bush helping Mexican
President Carlos Salinas de Gortari remove his jacket Monday at a rodeo in
Agualeguas, Mexico. Barbara Bush is to the right of Salinas.

                  Copyright 1990 St. Louis Post-Dispatch, Inc.


                              267 of 268 DOCUMENTS

                       St. Louis Post-Dispatch (Missouri)

                  December 9, 1990, SUNDAY, THREE STAR Edition

IMMIGRATION SERVICE PLANS EXPERIMENT TO COLLECT FEE AT BORDERS

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 10A

LENGTH: 600 words


WASHINGTON - The United States plans to collect fees from people crossing the
border into the country - including Americans - in a pilot project beginning in
the next few months.  Two crossings, one of them probably at Blaine, Wash., and
the other on the Mexican border, will be designated by the Immigration and
Naturalization Service for the project, officials say.  The program, which would
run until 1993, is still being designed, but could pave the way for a fee that
could be charged to all people crossing the border.  No details of the new
program would be announced until spring, Immigration Service officials said.
Among the options are express lanes for those who travel daily between Canada or
Mexico and the United States. Under this plan, commuters would buy a monthly or
yearly pass to use the lanes.  Canadian customs officials have a similar system
being tested in the Windsor, Ontario, area, but Canada does not charge for the
service.  One major problem for the Immigration Service is that it must devise a
system that it can apply to both borders. This means that the fee must be
relatively low so as not to pose a significant economic burden on Mexican
commuters.  ''We don't want to force people to go under the bridge rather than
over it,'' said Duke Austin, an spokesman for the Immigration Service. ''We've
got enough of that already.'' Several Mexican immigration groups already have
protested against any fee.  Entry fees are a long-sought goal of the
budget-starved immigration service, which will use the money to hire more staff
members and otherwise speed up its border services. ''It's been at least 15
years that we have had a border crossing fee as an item of discussion,'' Austin
said.  Mexico already charges a fee for border-crossers while Canada, which is
eager for U.S. tourist dollars, has no plans for any such scheme.  The boom in
border shopping prompted the current move toward a pilot program.  Congressional
complaints, particularly from Rep. Al Swift, D-Wash., about long waits at border
crossings between his district and British Columbia have grown during the past
18 months.  The Immigration Service expressed sympathy, but said it had no money
for additional inspectors. That led legislators to order the pilot program when
they passed the 1991 budget bill for the Justice Department, which runs the
Immigration Service.

LOAD-DATE: October 18, 1993

LANGUAGE: English

                  Copyright 1990 St. Louis Post-Dispatch, Inc.


                              268 of 268 DOCUMENTS

                       St. Louis Post-Dispatch (Missouri)

                 January 22, 1989 Sunday Late Five Star Edition

WALL OF HONOR HELPS FUND RESTORATION PROJECT

BYLINE: Dennis Brown

SECTION: EVERYDAY MAGAZINE; Pg. 10F

LENGTH: 251 words


IN 1885, when money was needed to complete the pedestal at the base of the new
Statue of Liberty, Joseph Pulitzer turned to the American people. He waged a
fund-raising drive on the front page of his New York newspaper, "The World." In
five months, 125,000 Americans contributed $100,000 to complete the pedestal.

A century later, it has cost $320 million to restore both the Statue of Liberty
and nearby Ellis Island. All but the final $5 million has been raised. In the
Pulitzer tradition, Lee Iacocca (chairman emeritus of the privately funded
Statue of Liberty-Ellis Island Foundation) is making one last, grand
fund-raising appeal.

He evolved the idea for the American Immigrant Wall of Honor. The wall is
intended to be a collective display, representing the individual family
heritages that created the history of America.

Anyone who makes a tax-deductible contribution of $100 or more can designate a
family name or a specific person's name to be placed on the wall, which will be
situated just off the Great Hall in the Ellis Island Immigration Museum. All
immigrants' names qualify, whether they passed through Ellis or not. The wall
represents the first opportunity to place an immigrant's name on permanent
public display at a national monument.

The deadline for reserving space is June 1. To donate and place an inscription,
write to: Statue of Liberty-Ellis Island Foundation, 52 Vanderbilt Avenue, New
York, N.Y. 10017, or call (212) 883-1986.

- Dennis Brown

LOAD-DATE: August 17, 2001

LANGUAGE: English

                  Copyright 1989 St. Louis Post-Dispatch, Inc.
