
                               1 of 308 DOCUMENTS

                       St. Louis Post-Dispatch (Missouri)

              September 19, 1995, Tuesday, FIVE STAR LIFT Edition

IN 'SENSIBLE CENTER,' POWELL ASSAILS FOES OF IMMIGRATION

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 3A

LENGTH: 551 words

DATELINE: WASHINGTON


Colin Powell, the son of Jamaican immigrants, decried on Monday efforts to deny
government services to legal immigrants or children of undocumented aliens.

Without naming potential Republican presidential rivals, he accused politicians
of a meanness in "demonizing" immigrants.

Filling in more of the policy positions that would figure into a possible
presidential campaign, Powell said he supports banning welfare and other
government benefits for those who enter the country illegally - but not when it
comes to children. Then Powell tilts to what he describes as the "sensible
center."

In an interview with The Associated Press, he said: "They did not ask to be the
children of illegal immigrants. They just are. I don't think those children
should be pushed aside because of the accident or the illegality of their
parents' entry."

Nor should benefits be denied to children born to illegal immigrants in the
United States, Powell said. They are American citizens by birth and should be
treated as such, as should immigrants who enter the country by legal methods, he
said.

Powell, who is on a 25-city tour to promote his new book, "My American Journey,"
also said he would not "reinvent myself" as a civil rights crusader to answer
Jesse Jackson and others who cast him as a black leader put forward by white
America.

"While I was comfortably ensconced in the government bureaucracy enjoying civil
rights, Jesse was out there fighting, and I appreciate that," said Powell, whose
lifelong military career included stints in Vietnam and as an adviser to
Presidents Ronald Reagan, George Bush and Bill Clinton.

"All I can do is continue to present myself as I see myself, and let others make
judgments," said Powell, former chairman of the Joint Chiefs of Staff. Ellis
Island Entry

Powell said he has ruled out running for president as a Democrat next year and
is considering seeking the GOP nomination or the more complicated and
financially difficult route of an independent. But several of the positions he
has taken make him a difficult fit for a GOP primary battle in which
conservatives carry considerable influence.

Immigration, an early issue in the GOP presidential campaign, hits close to home
for Powell, who keeps his parents' entry documents from Ellis Island on his
wall.

Sen. Phil Gramm, R-Texas, wants to block legal immigrants from welfare benefits
for five years. Senate Majority Leader Bob Dole, R-Kan., agreed to include that
provision in welfare legislation pending in the Senate but over the weekend
signaled that he might try to soften it.

Gov. Pete Wilson of California last year championed a successful state
initiative to deny undocumented aliens access to schools and social services.
Commentator Pat Buchanan wants to build a fence along the Mexican border and
stop all immigration for five years.

Powell said he, too, wants stronger border controls, and he supports efforts to
determine how many legal immigrants can be absorbed without overburdening
taxpayers. "But there is such an edge to some of the rhetoric associated with
these positions that very often a meanness creeps into the dialogue and an
intolerance creeps in. The people who seem to be the brunt of this rhetoric . .
. seem almost to be demonized for their misfortune in life."

LOAD-DATE: September 19, 1995

LANGUAGE: English

GRAPHIC: PHOTO; Photo Headshot - (Colin) Powell

                  Copyright 1995 St. Louis Post-Dispatch, Inc.


                               2 of 308 DOCUMENTS

                       St. Louis Post-Dispatch (Missouri)

                  October 16, 1994, SUNDAY, FIVE STAR Edition

A BAD PROPOSITION ON IMMIGRATION

SECTION: EDITORIAL; Pg. 2B

LENGTH: 406 words


Growing sentiment against illegal immigration may be coalescing around an item
on the ballot in California next month. Proposition 187 - dubbed by its
supporters as the "Save Our State" initiative - would prevent illegal aliens
from receiving any public health, welfare or educational services. Though
efforts to tighten control over U.S. borders is understandable, this drastic
solution is not.

The argument made on behalf of Proposition 187 by its supporters, who include
California Gov. Pete Wilson, is primarily an economic one. Nationwide, studies
show, illegal immigrants cost states more money than they contribute in taxes.
Exact figures are not easy to come by. But in California, the cost of schooling
illegal immigrant children is estimated at between $ 1.3 million and $ 2.1
million a year. Of the nation's 4 million illegal immigrants, California is home
to more than any other state.

Financial arguments in favor of Proposition 187 are countered by a humanitarian
one that is being advanced by leaders in the state's religious and educational
communities, among others. Schools raise the disquieting prospect of turning
away 300,000 children who want to learn, and hospitals foresee turning away
families seeking routine medical care, all because they lack proper
documentation. Worse, they foresee becoming agents of the immigration agencies,
trying to root out those students who may not belong.

In such a climate, even those immigrants who are in California legally will find
themselves suspect, and their lives will change forever. Even if the proposition
passes, it faces a long legal battle likely to end up in the U.S. Supreme Court,
delaying implementation for years.

Cardinal Roger Mahony of Los Angeles may have put it best during an appearance
earlier this month to help rally opposition to the proposal. Noting that the
anti-illegal immigrant effort would simply breed fear and division, not force
people back to their native land, he said: "Our church and our country is a
history of people on the move in search of a better life for themselves and
their families. Together we can take a step toward preserving families by seeing
to it that Proposition 187 never becomes law."

The answer isn't to make scapegoats of immigrants but to see that the federal
government enforces the immigration laws and assumes an appropriate share of the
burden that illegal entrants impose on state services.

LOAD-DATE: October 17, 1994

LANGUAGE: English

TYPE: EDITORIAL

                  Copyright 1994 St. Louis Post-Dispatch, Inc.


                               3 of 308 DOCUMENTS

                       St. Louis Post-Dispatch (Missouri)

                  November 14, 1994, MONDAY, FIVE STAR Edition

DID CALIFORNIANS SAVE THEIR STATE?

SECTION: EDITORIAL; Pg. 6B

LENGTH: 527 words


Though enforcement of Proposition 187 in California has been blocked by the
courts after its overwhelming approval in Tuesday's election, the psychological
effect of the initiative against illegal immigrants is already taking hold.
Anyone with a foreign-sounding name or appearance is subject to suspicion,
harassment and the potential denial of public services, as the proposition
demands. The strength of the proposal's victory reflects the seriousness of the
problem of illegal immigration, but the solution it proposes remains
problematic.

Led by Gov. Pete Wilson, who made Proposition 187 a centerpiece of his
successful re-election campaign, the ballot initiative won big - 59 percent to
41 percent. Mr. Wilson termed the so-called "Save Our State" proposal "the
two-by-four we need to make them take notice in Washington" of the problem of
illegal immigration. He has yet to show how depriving children of an education
and families of non-emergency medical services - not to mention turning
teachers, hospital workers and others into deputy immigration agents - will
solve the problems Californians blame on undocumented aliens.

The most logical solution would be to tighten U.S. borders and stop the illegal
immigrants in the first place. However, many California business executives,
despite what they may have said during the heated campaign for Proposition 187,
would not like the effect such a crackdown would have on their use of seasonal,
inexpensive immigrant labor. The new regulations won't send anyone back home.
With the anti-tax, smaller-government mood in Washington, the increased funding
that the Immigration and Naturalization Service would need to enforce existing
laws may be hard to come by.

If you can't keep immigrants out, the next best solution for a majority of
Californians who feel overtaxed and underserved was to deprive them of
tax-funded services. But the legal problems in such an approach are
overwhelming. Most obvious is a 1982 U.S. Supreme Court ruling that overturned a
Texas law seeking to accomplish a similar goal. Backers of Proposition 187 say
the court is different now, and they hope that new times will permit new
solutions. Still, the court's reasoning still rings true - that the 14th
amendment provides equal protection for everyone and prohibits singling out a
single class of people for discriminatory treatment.

The biggest problem Proposition 187 brings is whether it can be enforced fairly.
Should children be punished for being brought into the country illegally by
their parents? Do Californians really want to create a climate of fear, in which
people have to prove their citizenship on demand and anyone who provides public
services has to become an enforcement officer? Do they want thousands of
children evicted from school, barred from learning the skills they will need to
become productive adults? How about sick people afraid to go to a clinic?

One immigrant from Trinidad, reacting to the election results, put it well: "The
only thing worse than a bad illness is bad medicine." With Proposition 187,
California has come up with a cure that is worse than the disease.

LOAD-DATE: November 15, 1994

LANGUAGE: English

TYPE: EDITORIAL

                  Copyright 1994 St. Louis Post-Dispatch, Inc.


                               4 of 308 DOCUMENTS

                       St. Louis Post-Dispatch (Missouri)

                 December 15, 1994, Thursday, FIVE STAR Edition

SECOND JUDGE BLOCKS CALIFORNIA MEASURE AGAINST ILLEGAL ALIENS

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 9A

LENGTH: 256 words

DATELINE: LOS ANGELES


A federal judge blocked on Wednesday California's voter-approved measure to deny
almost all state services to illegal aliens. The judge said the measure appeared
to conflict with the federal government's authority.

U.S. District Judge Mariana Pfaelzer granted a preliminary injunction blocking
almost all of Proposition 187's bans against allowing illegal aliens to use
public schools, public health services and public social services.

Pfaelzer let stand two of the proposition's more minor provisions: one
prohibiting illegal immigrants from attending state colleges and another banning
the sale and use of false immigration documents.

The judge said the measure, approved by 59 percent of California voters on Nov.
8, denied health and social services to some immigrants who might be entitled to
receive them under federal law. It could also pressure some immigrants into
leaving the country when they had the right to remain, Pfaelzer said.

The judge said only the federal government had the authority to determine who
could enter and remain in the United States.

Most major provisions of Proposition 187 were already on hold as a result of a
temporary restraining order issued by another federal judge last month. But
Wednesday's decision goes one step further: She issued a preliminary injunction,
which remains in effect until a trial can resolve disputed facts in the case.

The judge said the health care provision, in particular, had serious
implications because it could put the public health at risk.

LOAD-DATE: December 16, 1994

LANGUAGE: English

                  Copyright 1994 St. Louis Post-Dispatch, Inc.


                               5 of 308 DOCUMENTS

                       St. Louis Post-Dispatch (Missouri)

                   January 8, 1995, Sunday, FIVE STAR Edition

FLORIDA MAY BECOME NEXT BATTLEGROUND OVER ILLEGAL IMMIGRANTS

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 6B

LENGTH: 841 words

DATELINE: IMMOKALEE, FLA.


CALIFORNIA'S SWEEPING law against undocumented immigrants seems only a d istant
threat to farm workers in Florida's citrus and vegetable belts, where foreign
pickers often outnumber local residents.

"I just can't imagine Florida doing anything like that," said Sister Judy
Dohner, a Roman Catholic nun who helps workers in Immokalee. It's a hard-pressed
community isolated by fields of tomatoes, oranges and the Everglades.
"Undocumented workers here are filling jobs that nobody else wants," Dohner
said.

But she and other immigrants' advocates said they feared the rumble of growing
feelings against illegal immigration. Since California voters approved the
ballot initiative in November that would bar most public benefits to
undocumented immigrants, the idea has been catching on in a number of states,
particularly Florida.

"People are giving motives to the workers that they don't have," Dohner said.
"They aren't abusing the system - they are putting food on our tables."

With a growing backlash to its large immigrant population, Florida is considered
the most likely candidate for a major campaign to reproduce California's
Proposition 187. Florida, like California, allows ballot initiatives. Texas does
not.

Florida voters have been beset in recent years with images of desperate Haitians
and Cubans fleeing to Florida's shores in homemade rafts. Past grass-roots
campaigns against immigrants have found success in the state: In 1980, Miami
voted to make English its official language.

In Texas, by contrast, a stronger economy and the state's history of close ties
to Mexico and its culture help dilute illegal immigration as an issue, analysts
said. Leading Texas politicians, including Gov.-elect George W. Bush, oppose
barring public benefits.

The California initiative, dubbed "Save Our State" by its backers, passed in a
near landslide and would close schools, clinics and other benefits to
undocumented immigrants. Court challenges have delayed enforcement of much of
the law, as they would in other states, legal scholars said.

But proponents of the measure say that won't prevent similar campaigns
elsewhere, although they would lack California's unique mix: a tradition of
ballot initiatives, an economic recession, generous state aid programs and a
governor who wants to bar those benefits to undocumented immigrants.

Almost one out of every 20 residents in California is undocumented, a ratio at
least twice that of any other state.

"There's only one California," said Luis Plascencia of the Tomas Rivera Center
in Austin, Texas, which studies Hispanic issues. "This issue is not going to
surface in the same way elsewhere."

Nonetheless, less splashy, more subtle efforts will successfully restrict
undocumented immigrants' access to public programs, Plascencia said. State
legislatures will quietly alter the rules for benefits, and local clinics will
limit health care, he said. "Ultimately, they could prove as damaging."

In Florida, as in California, feelings against illegal immigration became
prominent during last fall's gubernatorial campaign. Florida Gov. Lawton Chiles,
like California Gov. Pete Wilson, partly blamed the state's budget problems on
immigrants, particularly undocumented newcomers. Both governors were re-elected.
Chiles is a Democrat; Wilson is a Republican.

Florida joined California, Texas and several other states in filing suit against
the federal government over the costs of undocumented immigrants. Last month, a
federal judge dismissed Florida's suit, and a judge in Texas has said he's
likely to dismiss that suit. The jurists said immigration enforcement was a
political issue, not a legal dispute.

Immigrant advocates dispute state estimates of the costs of providing services
to immigrants. Dohner says few welfare-type payments are available to migrant
workers in Immokalee. In picking season, the city swells from a permanent
population of 20,000 to more than 30,000, and the majority are foreign-born.
Most come from Haiti, Mexico, Guatemala and other Central American countries.

Some food stamps are available, and a local clinic treats health problems. But
there's little else in public support, Dohner said.

"That's why our work is so important, and so difficult," she said of the
Guadalupe Center, a collection of food, clothing and other support programs that
she administers.

In Immokalee, the California law is little understood in the vegetable and
citrus fields, said Micheline Dorce, a Haitian-American working with Immokalee's
workers. "The illegals are focused first on getting their papers," Dorce said.

Days of picking and nights of learning English leave workers little time for
thoughts beyond survival, said Dohner. Besides, she said, the need for urgent
organizing appears remote.

The Catholic nun, for one, said she remained unconvinced that most Floridians
wanted to stop illegal immigration. "We need the workers to do the picking," she
said. "If we could mechanize the work they do, they'd be gone in a flash."

LOAD-DATE: January 9, 1995

LANGUAGE: English

                  Copyright 1995 St. Louis Post-Dispatch, Inc.


                               6 of 308 DOCUMENTS

                       St. Louis Post-Dispatch (Missouri)

               January 23, 1996, Tuesday, FIVE STAR LIFT Edition

CLINTON WEIGHS ORDER ON IMMIGRATION

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 4A

LENGTH: 202 words

DATELINE: WASHINGTON


President Bill Clinton is expected to issue an order soon barring federal
contracts with companies that violate immigration law by hiring undocumented
foreign workers, U.S. officials said Monday.

The order is part of a stepped-up effort to stop employers from hiring illegal
immigrants - and to open jobs for American citizens.

In 1986, Congress outlawed the hiring of illegal aliens, but enforcement has
faded in the last six years.

The federal government already is using the armed forces and local law
enforcement agencies to bolster the Border Patrol in Arizona and California.
Mexico's economic problems have increased the pressure for illegal immigration.
Recognizing that many illegal immigrants are lured to this country by jobs,
Congress recently directed the immigration service to double its corps of
workplace investigators.

The federal government buys huge amounts of goods and services, awarding
contracts for roughly $ 200 billion a year.

Immigration is becoming a volatile issue in the presidential campaign,
especially in states like California, Florida and Texas, and Clinton wants to
make sure that Republicans cannot use the issue against him, administration
officials said.

LOAD-DATE: January 23, 1996

LANGUAGE: English

                  Copyright 1996 St. Louis Post-Dispatch, Inc.


                               7 of 308 DOCUMENTS

                       St. Louis Post-Dispatch (Missouri)

                  September 4, 1992, FRIDAY, FIVE STAR Edition

19 ALIENS RETURNED TO MEXICO THEY WERE HERE ILLEGALLY, WORKING FOR LAWN; COMPANY
IN SHREWSBURY

BYLINE: Tim Bryant Of the Post-Dispatch Staff

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 8A

LENGTH: 259 words


Immigration authorities have picked up 22 Mexicans, ranging in age from 16 to
38, who were in the United States illegally and working at a lawn-care company
in Shrewsbury.  Chester Moyer, head of the St. Louis office of the Immigration
and Naturalization Service, said Thursday that 19 of the 22 illegal aliens had
been returned to Mexico. Two juveniles were allowed to stay here with relatives
until an administrative judge decides whether the youths must be sent home. An
adult married to a legal resident here also was to have a hearing before he
could be returned to Mexico.  All 22 people were picked up Tuesday as they
arrived for work at Top Care Lawn Service Inc., 7243 Devonshire Avenue.  Moyer
said all of those returned to Mexico had phony alien registration papers, Social
Security documents or other identification.  He said his agency got involved
after Shrewsbury police suspected that some of the papers were counterfeit.
Officers examined the documents after stopping some Top Care employees this
summer on minor traffic violations.  Karen Yaeger, Top Care's office manager,
said the company had alerted immigration authorities in July to the firm's large
number of Hispanic employees doing seasonal work. Moyer said Top Care officials
had cooperated with investigators.  Moyer said investigators were trying to
determine how the Mexicans got the bogus documents they used to enter the United
States.  Some of those returned to Mexico had been in the United States about 18
months; others arrived only weeks ago, Moyer said.

LOAD-DATE: October 12, 1993

LANGUAGE: English

                  Copyright 1992 St. Louis Post-Dispatch, Inc.


                               8 of 308 DOCUMENTS

                       St. Louis Post-Dispatch (Missouri)

                 January 23, 1993, SATURDAY, FIVE STAR Edition

ILLEGAL DOMESTICS NOT COMMON HERE; AT LEAST, OFFICIALS DON'T THINK SO

BYLINE: Edward H. Kohn Post-Dispatch Senior Correspondent Leo Fitzmaurice and
Robert Kelly of the Post-Dispatch staff contributed information for this story.

SECTION: WAR PAGE; Pg. 1B

LENGTH: 832 words


ONLY A SMALL number of St. Louisans hire illegal aliens to work in their homes -
and most go undetected, law enforcement officials and immigration lawyers say.

Out of 2.5 million Missouri taxpayers, only 19,372 reported making Social
Security payments or withholding taxes for their household employees, the
Internal Revenue Service said.

Agency officials in St. Louis were unable to estimate how many of the state's
residents should have filed forms on their domestic employees - anyone to whom
they've paid $ 50 or more in the last 90 days for services ranging from
baby-sitting to house cleaning.

Nationally, only 10 percent of taxpayers who should file the forms do so, IRS
officials said.

Early Friday, Zoe Baird withdrew as President Bill Clinton's nominee for U.S.
attorney general after admitting that she and her husband had hired two illegal
aliens to work at their home in Connecticut.

After Baird was nominated, she and her husband paid a $ 2,900 fine to the U.S.
Immigration and Naturalization Service. They also paid about $ 12, 000 in back
Social Security taxes and penalties for the employees.

Chester Moyer, head of the INS office in downtown St. Louis, said hiring illegal
domestic workers "isn't nearly the problem here that it is in New York City or
on the East Coast."

With a huge caseload and only two agents to cover roughly the eastern half of
Missouri, Moyer said, the INS tends to focus on businesses that hire large
numbers of illegal workers rather than a homeowner who hires an illegal nanny.

"At this level of manpower, domestic help just isn't looked upon as a serious
violation," he said. "We prefer cases where there's more bang for the buck."

Nevertheless, the INS usually detects and turns away several child-care workers
each week seeking to enter the United States at Lambert Field and lacking the
proper papers. Most are simply put back on the plane to fly home.

Moyer said that although the INS office deports several hundred aliens each
year, there are "probably several thousand" living and working in eastern
Missouri. Most, he said, work on farms or in factories at jobs requiring
relatively few skills.

The office "hasn't found much exploitation" of the illegal workers, Moyer said,
although a handful of cases has been referred in recent years to the Labor
Department for investigation.

On the other hand, he said, a significant number of illegal aliens are involved
in crime, such as smuggling drugs - and that's often how they're caught and
ultimately deported.

Only a handful of civil complaints - but no criminal complaints - have been
filed against parents in eastern Missouri who've hired illegal aliens to work in
their homes, the U.S. attorney's office and lawyers said.

In one, a civil complaint was filed several years ago against a single mother
who "violated the law out of ignorance" by hiring a live-in nanny who couldn't
legally work in the United States, said Lilian C. Fernandez, a lawyer in St.
Louis.

The client "just didn't know about the law" that, starting in 1986, required
employers to check new employees' records to be sure they legally could work,
Fernandez said.

The result: The woman got a warning - but no fine - and the nanny voluntarily
left the country rather than face deportation.

In Illinois, Clifford Proud, the first assistant U.S. attorney, said federal
authorities in his district had prosecuted no cases involving employment of
illegal aliens in at least 10 years.

And the last case prosecuted was for the harboring of migrant workers - not
specifically over their employment, Proud said. His district includes the Metro
East area.

Darwin Portman, a lawyer in Clayton, said "doctors and architects and lawyers
and other professionals" who find they cannot hire Americans at the salary
they're willing to pay have hired illegal aliens as domestic or child-care
workers.

"This is mostly a Yuppie type of problem," said Portman, who heads the
immigration law committee of the Bar Association of Metropolitan St. Louis.

"These people must work irregular hours and want good child care," he said.
"They tell me they cannot find anyone locally, and they want their children
exposed to other cultures or another language."

On the tax issue, Nova Felton, a spokeswoman for the IRS here, said the agency
generally doesn't seek out taxpayers who fail to make Social Security or tax
payments for their domestic workers.

"There are no compliance reviews on this," Felton said. "The issue generally
doesn't come up except when we're examining a taxpayer's return" and looking for
errors.

Felton noted that the IRS is in the middle of a drive to persuade "non-filers" -
people who should file returns but haven't - to get their affairs in order. More
than 3,000 Missourians have filed returns in recent weeks, she said.

"That effort could be expanded to cover the forms 942," on which household
employment must be reported, she said.

LOAD-DATE: September 29, 1993

LANGUAGE: English

                  Copyright 1993 St. Louis Post-Dispatch, Inc.


                               9 of 308 DOCUMENTS

                       St. Louis Post-Dispatch (Missouri)

                  February 22, 1993, MONDAY, FIVE STAR Edition

TIGHTROPE: KEEP AN EYE ON LAW WHEN HIRING ALIENS

BYLINE: William Flannery Of the Post-Dispatch Staff

SECTION: BUSINESS PLUS; Pg. 8

LENGTH: 616 words


How does an employer - be it hiring a nanny or a nuclear scientist - avoid the
Zoe Baird problem of hiring an illegal alien?

Theoretically, the answer is simple. All new employees must fill out the U.S.
Immigration and Naturalization Service I-9 Employment Eligibility Verification
form.

The single-page form is to make sure that any new hire is either a U.S.  citizen
or a foreign resident eligible to work in the country.

But an employer must deal with the I-9 as with any mine field: Be careful where
you step.

"With the I-9 form, this is a case where you can be too careful," said Vicky
Taylor. "What you need to do is to check just the documents (the INS) asks you
to check - but don't ask for any more, or don't ask for any less."

Taylor is an immigration attorney with the St. Louis law firm of Greensfelder,
Hemker & Gale.

"If someone gives a driver's license and a Social Security card - and you want
to see their green card (work permit) - then they could hit you with an
anti-discrimination case," Taylor said.

"If someone comes to your place of employment and they look foreign and sound
foreign, you cannot do any more or any less" than what INS regulations require,
she added.

But it's legal if the person comes in and shows a green card voluntarily as one
of two IDs.

Even with these documents, there can be problems, Taylor warns.

"First of all, if (the person) brings in a U.S. passport, that will satisfy all
proof of identity," Taylor said.

"Where it gets into difficulty is that you could present a Missouri driver's
license - which proves identity - and a Social Security card, as long as the
(card) doesn't carry the notation 'Not authorized for employment.' "

But, Taylor said,there are many different Social Security offices, and not all
of them are careful about adding the employment tag line.

"It's just not uniform," she said. "I think many employers can be complying with
the I-9 form, but the worker is technically undocumented."

Still, Taylor said, "As long as the documents on their face appear to be
reasonably genuine as they relate to the worker's identity, you have a
good-faith defense." But, Taylor warns, this defense is still rebuttable by the
INS.

Taylor said the INS and judges will look at each case individually in terms of
assigning the penality, particularly the size of the business and the number of
offenses.

"You can get hit for hiring an undocumented worker - and then you can get hit
for paperwork violations," Taylor said.

A first-time offending employer could get civil fines of $ 250 to $ 2, 000 per
illegal employee. Paperwork fines will run from $ 100 to $ 1,000 for each
violation.

"I had a case where they racked up $ 7,000 in first-time fines," Taylor said.

In most cases, however, the employer and the INS settle the fines out of court
or the judge dismisses them.

In California, multimillion-dollar agribusinesses are fined hundreds of
thousands of dollars for hiring hundreds of illegals.

But in St. Louis, Taylor said, cases generally are smaller and less complicated.

Forged documents are a problem, particularly ones that are well-done, said
Chester S. Moyer, the officer in charge of the INS office in St. Louis.  But, he
added, his office has seen some poor forgeries as well.

"We've had (employers) who accepted Xeroxes of drivers licenses . . . and others
with pen-and-ink changes," Moyer said. "Those are not acceptable."

Moyer added that some illegals use stolen INS documents like green cards, some
of which on a quick check prove to be illegal - like a man using a women's card
or a person from Africa using a green card belonging to an Asian.

LOAD-DATE: September 29, 1993

LANGUAGE: English

GRAPHIC: PHOTO; Photo by Post-Dispatch Photo - Immigration attorney Vicky Taylor
counsels going by the book.

                  Copyright 1993 St. Louis Post-Dispatch, Inc.


                              10 of 308 DOCUMENTS

                       St. Louis Post-Dispatch (Missouri)

                 November 9, 1994, WEDNESDAY, FIVE STAR Edition

TERM LIMITS ARE POPULAR; IMMIGRATION LAW LEADING

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 7C

LENGTH: 723 words

DATELINE: WASHINGTON


Early election returns Tuesday showed voters in Maine, Massachusetts, Nebraska
and the District of Columbia favoring term limits.

Term limits, which were on ballots in eight states and the District, were
winning by nearly 2-1 ratios in the District, Maine and Nebraska, and leading by
comfortable margins in Colorado and Massachusetts, according to early returns.

There were more than 70 citizen-sponsored initiatives on ballots this year, the
most in six decades.

They included the incendiary Proposition 187 in California, which would deny
most social services to illegal immigrants and a first-of-its-kind measure in
Oregon to allow doctors to assist in suicides. Proposition 187 was leading
narrowly in early returns.

Exit polls Tuesday night showed Proposition 187 would be decided by a thin
margin. Also too close to call was a three-strikes-and-you're-out prison
sentencing initiative.

But voters apparently rejected ballot initiatives aiming to set up a
single-payer health care system and a tobacco company-backed plan to eliminate
all local restrictions on smoking.

Backers had said that Proposition 187, which aimed to end public schooling,
public health care and other tax-financed services for illegal aliens, would
"send a message" to Washington, even if some of its components were later found
unconstitutional.

In one of a handful of anti-crime measures on the ballot, voters in Georgia were
headed toward approving a "two strikes and you're out" law that would impose a
sentence of life without parole for criminals convicted of a second violent
crime. Early returns showed it favored 3-1.

Most of the anti-crime measures would give victims a say in the sentencing
process.

In Florida, voters decisively rejected a gambling initiative that the industry
had spent $ 16 million to promote. It was the third time in 15 years that voters
have been asked to legalize gambling, which is permitted on Indian reservations
and a limited number of riverboats. Concern about crime and lifestyle changes
played heavily in the campaign, but so did industry spending, which outpaced
opponents' 10-1.

With 20 percent of the votes counted, the measure trailed 35 to 65 percent.

Another gambling measure in Rhode Island was also headed for defeat. It would
have permitted casinos in five cities, including the state capital.

Two states, Idaho and Oregon, voted on anti-gay measures. Wyoming voters were to
decide whether to subject doctors who perform abortions to felony charges in
certain situations.

Voters in as many as a dozen states were poised to impose new limits on the
power of elected officials through ballot initiatives.

Measures to limit the terms of federal officials were also favored to pass in
Alaska, Idaho, Nevada and Utah. In most of these states, there was little or no
organized opposition, and, in six, the campaigns were funded largely by U.S.
Term Limits, a Washington-based organization.

In six states - Colorado, Massachusetts, Missouri, Montana, Nevada and Oregon -
voters considered imposing limits on how political campaigns are financed. It is
uncertain whether this issue will become the second wave, following term limits,
of a general voter revolt against politics.

Initiatives in three states - Missouri, Montana and Oregon - would restrict
elected officials from imposing some new taxes without voter approval. These
measures have proved popular in other states in the past. Initiatives in Montana
and Nevada would require super-majorities in state legislatures to approve new
taxes. TERM LIMITS

Here are the latest, unofficial returns for ballot measures in several states
that would restrict politicians' reelection bids.

ALASKA

0 pct. Yes  0 - 0 pct. No   0 - 0 pct. COLORADO

73 pct. Yes  427 919 - 52 pct. No   401 351 - 48 pct. DISTRICT OF COLUMBIA

100 pct. x-Yes  82 090 - 62 pct. No     51 079 - 38 pct.

IDAHO

67 pct. x-Yes  138 522 - 57 pct. No     103 405 - 43 pct.

MAINE

73 pct. x-Yes  208 842 - 63 pct. No     123 109 - 37 pct.

MASSACHUSETTS

80 pct. Yes  824 795 - 52 pct. No   775 427 - 48 pct.

NEBRASKA

92 pct. x-Yes  326 745 - 67 pct. No     158 019 - 33 pct.

NEVADA

81 pct. x-Yes  201 775 - 71 pct. No      84 416 - 29 pct.

UTAH

59 pct. Yes    94 033 - 36 pct. x-No  170 432 - 64 pct.

LOAD-DATE: November 10, 1994

LANGUAGE: English

GRAPHIC: GRAPHIC; Graphic - Term Limits - follows story.

TYPE: ELECTION RESULTS

                  Copyright 1994 St. Louis Post-Dispatch, Inc.


                              11 of 308 DOCUMENTS

                       St. Louis Post-Dispatch (Missouri)

                  November 18, 1994, Friday, FIVE STAR Edition

CATHOLIC BISHOPS CONDEMN NEW IMMIGRATION POLICY

BYLINE: Patricia Rice Post-Dispatch Religion Writer

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 3A

LENGTH: 654 words

DATELINE: WASHINGTON


Catholic bishops from across the country asked Americans on Thursday to put back
the welcome mat for immigrants.

The bishops approved a strongly worded statement criticizing Proposition 187,
the new California law that will deny services to undocumented people.

"In seeking to cure social and economic ills, this proposition strikes at the
most vulnerable among us - children, the sick and the needy - without addressing
the larger social and political causes for the problems, especially at the
federal level," said the statement issued by Archbishop William H. Keeler of
Baltimore.

It was among the last measures resolved on the final day of the National
Conference of Catholic Bishops and United States Catholic Conference. The
bishops also passed a directive on health care that will guide the more than
1,200 Catholic medical facilities nationwide.

The immigration resolution was slipped into the month-old agenda at the last
minute. California bishops said they were stunned by last week's passage of
Proposition 187, which will cut off most health care, social service and
educational benefits to undocumented people.

The bishops said they worry about immigrants who pray in their churches or get
help at their social relief agencies. The Catholic Church is the nation's
largest, non-government provider of social services.

"This country's great characteristic is hospitality," Bishop Augustin A. Roman
of Miami said in an interview. "It is not just a Catholic tradition of never
turning away strangers who need to eat or to rest; it is the Judeo-Christian
tradition. And our hospitality has benefited this country, brought new blood,
people with talent and people who are willing to do jobs nobody wants."

Health Care Guidelines

After passage of the health care directive, its author, the Rev. Thomas
Kopfensteiner, a professor at Kenrick Seminary in St. Louis, got slaps on the
back.

"If there is a single theme it is that health care is a basic right, it is a
moral issue," said Kopfensteiner.

Many American hospitals are trying to pool expensive equipment and cut costs by
merging. The directive explains how Catholic hospitals can merge with others.

They would not merge with a hospital system providing abortions, which is
against church teachings, he said. The merged system could not allow
physican-assisted suicide and must understand the Catholic moral teaching on
hydration and nutrition issues.

Catholic hospitals should merge first with other not-for-profit hospitals and
only as a last resort with for-profit hospitals, he said.

Bishops might give permission for hospitals to merge with for-profit hospitals,
but it's likely only in rural areas in order to keep services available to a
community, he said. Instead, he said, they might become a hospice like Incarnate
Word Hospital in St. Louis, or even close.

The bishops' paper insists that when a Catholic hospital merges with a
for-profit hospital, the new facility will have to treat poor patients. The
Catholic health care system was founded in medieval times to help the sick and
especially the sick who are poor. Tightening economic conditions can't change
that mission, the St. Louis theologian said.

"They don't exist to make money, like some corporation, but to serve,"
Kopfensteiner said.

The hospital ethical directive passed with scant discussion on the floor and
that surprised another St. Louisan, John E. Curley Jr., president and CEO of The
Catholic Health Association of the United States. The association is based in
Woodson Terrace and represents 560 hospitals and many more health facilities.

"The directive is a departure point for us," Curley said. The last bishops'
directive was 20 years old. "Now we have something to help bishops and
hospitals. But anything to do with health care is a snapshot. It's obsolete the
minute it is drafted because medical technology is changing so fast."

LOAD-DATE: December 30, 1994

LANGUAGE: English

                  Copyright 1994 St. Louis Post-Dispatch, Inc.


                              12 of 308 DOCUMENTS

                       St. Louis Post-Dispatch (Missouri)

                  November 27, 1994, Sunday, FIVE STAR Edition

HARMFUL EFFECTS OF ANTI-IMMIGRATION LAW

BYLINE: Arthur C. Helton and Lilian Castellani de Fernandez

SECTION: EDITORIAL; Pg. 3B

LENGTH: 839 words

COMMENTARY COLUMN


The approval of California's Proposition 187 has changed the nature of the
discourse on immigration policy in the United States.

Questions of immigration are very much questions of national identity. An
ungenerous and even nativist voice on immigration has resounded in response to
public dissatisfaction with the nation's political and economic situation.

Politicians seek to exploit the issue, which has increased tension between the
United States and Mexico. The most unintended of victims, however, are likely to
be many Americans.

The so-called "Save Our State" initiative will cut off many public services to
undocumented migrants, such as education, welfare and medical care (except in
emergencies). It requires teachers, caseworkers and medical attendants to report
illegal immigrants for possible apprehension and expulsion.

The measure was passed Nov. 8, but it has been blocked temporarily by challenges
in state courts. If it goes into effect, its provisions will affect many
activities covered by federal immigration law. It will pose insurmountable
problems of enforcement and will cause great hardships to innocent citizens and
lawful permanent residents.

The Immigration and Nationality Act is both sweeping in scope and obscure in
character. There are risks in asking that untrained people make complex
determinations of immigration status.

Federal law authorizes residence in the United States for a multitude of
non-nationals, even though they may not have formal immigrant status. Examples
include applicants for asylum and refugees with a well-founded fear of
persecution upon return to their home countries. Some aliens are entitled to
receive public assistance as they are "permanently residing under color of law."
In some instances, documentation of authorized stay may require a letter from
the Immigration and Naturalization Service, a decision from an immigration judge
or a re-entry document.

State and local government employees who deal with the public are not likely to
be qualified to make the complex determinations that this law would require. It
is bizarre to contemplate the prospect of busy caseworkers, teachers or police
officers successfully negotiating the niceties of the legal thicket concerning
immigration, which sometimes puzzles even the agency experts.

Immigration policy adjustment is a poor surrogate for social reform. Proposition
187, moreover, is policy adjustment by indirection. Deprivations caused by its
exclusionary provisions may be calamitous - access to education, health care,
public services and social benefits.

But if individuals are wrongfully denied access to health care, the numbers of
people needing care will likely increase. Their illnesses may worsen, and
others, including U.S. citizens, may be affected, eventually resulting in the
need for government to provide more costly health services.

A wrongful denial of education could only increase the number of uneducated
people and precipitate the loss of opportunities. Social tensions may be
aggravated. Since many experts find a direct correlation between lack of
educational opportunities and crime, as a society we may well end up paying a
higher price in the form of innocent victims, jails and rehabilitation programs
under such programs as Proposition 187.

A particularly pernicious outcome under these provisions is the likely higher
risk of unlawful discrimination against U.S. citizens and authorized residents
who either look or sound foreign born, including Hispanic Americans. The
complexities of the law are likely to cause repeated errors of exclusion, which
may constitute widespread discrimination. This could develop into
institutionalized unlawful discrimination against Americans by denying their
essential needs.

The risk of discrimination is very real, and is backed by government data. The
General Accounting Office found that implementation of employer sanctions had
produced widespread discrimination.

Not only are legal aliens likely to be denied rights granted to them by the law,
but the innocent children will suffer consequences that are needlessly cruel.
They had no choice where to live. Their only fault was to have been born to
their parents. For that, they will be denied an education and doomed to a life
without opportunities.

A better approach is to invigorate firm and fair enforcement of immigration law
at the federal level. The INS, a historically troubled agency that has been
under-funded and ridden with problems, must be scrutinized and revitalized.
Congress should review the work of the agency carefully and consider whether it
should be reconstituted.

Specifically, enforcement functions should be separated from the various
responsibilities associated with humanitarian matters such as asylum,
naturalization and family reunification.

The future of immigrants in our nation may depend upon reform that avoids
demagoguery but effectively addresses migration management with due respect for
the human rights of aliens.

LOAD-DATE: November 28, 1994

LANGUAGE: English

                  Copyright 1994 St. Louis Post-Dispatch, Inc.


                              13 of 308 DOCUMENTS

                       St. Louis Post-Dispatch (Missouri)

                June 22, 1995, Thursday, FIVE STAR LIFT Edition

IMMIGRATION LAW, BORDER PATROL COULD GET STRICTER

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 5A

LENGTH: 348 words

DATELINE: WASHINGTON


The chairman of the House immigration subcommittee proposed Wednesday to cut
legal immigration by 30 percent and to fortify the nation's southern borders
with increased patrols and "impenetrable" fences.

The chairman, Lamar Smith, R-Texas, said, "What's in the best interests of the
American worker and the American economy is what drives us." His bill making
these changes is expected to be formally introduced with 11 co-sponsors today.

The legislation would set an annual ceiling of 330,000 family-sponsored
immigrants and end visa eligibility for the brothers, sisters and adult children
of citizens. It would also cap employment-based immigration at 135,000, and
refugees and asylum-seekers would be limited to 70,000.

Those numbers are down from a total of about 830,000 legal entrants under
current law.

Smith's bill would increase the number of border patrol agents by 5,000 over
five years and increase by 500 the number of federal agents enforcing laws
against the hiring of illegal aliens.

The legislation would also require the Immigration and Naturalization Service to
build triple-barrier fences along certain stretches of the southern border where
alien smuggling is most prevalent.

The subcommittee has set a hearing on the proposal for Wednesday.

In the Senate, Alan Simpson, R-Wyo., chairman of the Judiciary subcommittee on
immigration, expects to introduce his own legal immigration reform next month, a
subcommittee aide said.

On June 14, the panel approved legislation cracking down on illegal entrants and
limiting welfare benefits for non-citizens. Unlike Smith's legislation, the
Senate bill would impose a new $ 1 border-crossing fee and authorize a national
registry to verify the eligibility of immigrants for employment and public
assistance.

Smith's legislation parallels the recommendations submitted this month by the
bipartisan U.S. Commission on Immigration Reform. But the congressionally
created panel would cut legal immigration levels by an additional 15,000 a year
and impose fees on employers who sponsor foreign workers.

LOAD-DATE: June 23, 1995

LANGUAGE: English

                  Copyright 1995 St. Louis Post-Dispatch, Inc.


                              14 of 308 DOCUMENTS

                       St. Louis Post-Dispatch (Missouri)

                  August 27, 1995, Sunday, THREE STAR Edition

MORE ALIENS DEPORTED FOR CRIMES

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 8A

LENGTH: 252 words

DATELINE: WASHINGTON


Deportations of illegal aliens convicted of serious crimes are expected to reach
30,000 this fiscal year, 5 percent more than projected, immigration officials
report.

More aggressive enforcement enabled the Immigration and Naturalization Service
to send 8,134 convicted aliens home in April, May and June, an increase of more
than 10 percent over the previous quarter.

New rules mandated by last year's anti-crime law could push those numbers up
even higher, said Alexander Aleinikoff, the INS executive associate commissioner
of programs. "We believe this is the beginning of a trend which will result in
the doubling of the number of criminal aliens removed next year. A criminal
conviction means jail time and a one-way ticket home."

INS had expected to deport 28,579 convicted aliens this fiscal year, which ends
Sept. 30.

Rules that went into effect Thursday created "administrative deportation," a new
and faster way to deport aliens convicted of aggravated felonies such as murder,
armed robbery and narcotics violations, the INS said.

The aliens now can be deported without a hearing before an immigration judge, if
they are not permanent U.S. residents and don't qualify for any program that
would allow them to stay in the United States.

The INS didn't release figures on how many aliens are incarcerated, but said
federal prisons house about 29,000 foreign-born inmates; about 72, 000 are being
held in state prisons.

Not all are illegal aliens, INS spokesman Greg Gagne said.

LOAD-DATE: August 27, 1995

LANGUAGE: English

                  Copyright 1995 St. Louis Post-Dispatch, Inc.


                              15 of 308 DOCUMENTS

                       St. Louis Post-Dispatch (Missouri)

                  October 1, 1995, Sunday, THREE STAR Edition

U.S. IMMIGRATION OFFICIALS GET MESSAGE, ROUND UP ILLEGAL ALIENS

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 11A

LENGTH: 535 words

DATELINE: WASHINGTON


Goaded into action by a new surge of foreign migrants and by pressure on Capitol
Hill, federal agents have stepped up efforts to root out illegal aliens who take
the jobs of American workers.

Immigration officials announced the roundup of more than 4,000 illegal workers
in Florida and much of the South last week, as Congress labored over the most
restrictive immigration legislation in more than 70 years.

The House Judiciary Committee began drafting a bill Wednesday that would
reinforce the Border Patrol, set up a computerized worker identification system
and sharply limit the number of new legal immigrants.

The bill also would establish a nationwide computer system through which
employers could verify every job applicant's citizenship or immigration status
using a toll-free phone number.

The Republican-run Congress and President Bill Clinton's administration, each
prodding the other, are now moving down the same track toward intense
immigration enforcement, an answer to growing public resentment of foreign
arrivals.

Congress, beset with wrangling over spending bills, is moving slowly toward
passage of reform legislation late this year or early next year.

Congress already has provided the immigration service with an additional $ 70
million for the fiscal year that begins Oct. 1, to pay for 600 more agents to
inspect workplaces.

But new measures to halt immigration at the border and dry up job sources for
illegals - goals both parties agree on - could get hung up over Republican
attempts to limit even legal arrivals.

Many Democrats oppose provisions in the House bill that would gradually reduce
legal immigration quotas and require arrivals to have jobs or be sponsored by
someone with an income well above the poverty line.

Immigration advocates said they feared that legal immigrants would be excluded
or treated unfairly once they arrived because of a prevailing anti-immigrant
bias in Congress and the nation.

"I don't think we have a problem with legal immigration," Rep. Barney Frank,
D-Mass., told his colleagues on the Judiciary Committee. Legal immigrants tend
to be hard-working, productive contributors to society, Frank and other
Democrats said.

Republicans on the committee countered that legal immigration was getting out of
hand and sapping the nation's resources.

"We are not capable of opening our arms any longer to everyone," said Rep. Sonny
Bono, R-Calif.

Not waiting for the proposed reforms, immigration officials announced this week
that inspectors already had begun arrests and prosecutions at worksites in
Florida and five other Southern states. The sweep - dubbed Operation SouthPAW
(Protect American Workers) - led to arrest of 4,044 illegal aliens, 592 of them
in Florida.

The operation was aimed at the thousands of illegal workers drawn to jobs in the
booming Sun Belt - especially in Atlanta, site of the 1996 Summer Olympics.

Most of these workers have been sent out of the country, and some of their
employers were fined up to $ 15,000. The illegal workers have been replaced so
far with more than 2,400 Americans or legal immigrants, who will earn a total
annual income of $ 33 million, immigration officials said.

LOAD-DATE: October 1, 1995

LANGUAGE: English

                  Copyright 1995 St. Louis Post-Dispatch, Inc.


                              16 of 308 DOCUMENTS

                       St. Louis Post-Dispatch (Missouri)

                October 15, 1995, Sunday, FIVE STAR LIFT Edition

DRASTIC IMMIGRATION CURBS HURT NATION

BYLINE: Stephen H. Legomsky and Gene McNary

SECTION: EDITORIAL; Pg. 3B

LENGTH: 923 words

COMMENTARY COLUMN


The most extreme immigration legislation in the 200-year story of our republic
is moving swiftly through Congress. HR 2202, approved by the House immigration
subcommittee in July, is no less than a full-scale declaration of war against
immigrants, their American family members and the American companies that employ
them.

Unlike California Proposition 187, which at least confined itself to illegal
immigration, HR 2202 would slash legal immigration as well - in cruel and
foolish ways and by unprecedented amounts.

Public concern about large-scale illegal immigration is understandable. If
sovereignty means anything at all, it surely means that a nation may decide whom
to admit into its territory. Effective responses to illegal immigration are
therefore essential; the status quo, most will agree, is not acceptable.

But legal immigration is another story. It has been not only the bedrock of our
unique national identity but a key ingredient of our material success.
Immigration is a core national value, ratified by two centuries of experience.

Unfortunately, the present political climate rewards elected officials for
sounding "tough on immigration." Both major parties know that California, Texas
and Florida will be critical in the 1996 presidential race.

In such a climate, fine distinctions between legal and illegal immigrants are
easily lost. That is regrettable, because comprehensive new admission criteria
for immigrants went into effect just four years ago. Refinements are always
possible, but a complete makeover is unnecessary. For one thing, the new system
has barely been tested. For another, all early indications are that this
component of our immigration policy is working well. As the saying goes, if it
ain't broke, don't fix it.

Here is a small sampling of what HR 2202 would do:

Under current law, more than 60 percent of the available immigrant visas are set
aside for uniting Americans with their loved ones. Most of these visas go to the
husbands, wives and minor children of United States citizens and permanent
residents. Some go to the parents, siblings and adult sons and daughters of U.S.
citizens. Even with these priorities, however, numerical limits force hundreds
of thousands of nuclear family members to wait up to several years for their
numbers to come up. These long separation periods make a strong case for raising
the numerical ceiling on family immigration.

HR 2202 would do just the opposite. It would cut the number of family unity
visas by about one-third. It would prolong the separation of husbands and wives,
and of parents and children, by unknowable numbers of years.

This bill would also hamper "employment-based" immigration. Current law enables
employers to hire certain talented foreign professionals and skilled workers to
fill special-needs jobs. Under HR 2202, the already limited programs for
admitting "outstanding professors and researchers," certain multinational
executives and managers and other highly skilled professionals would be either
eliminated or further restricted.

American companies and universities that want to compete for the world's most
prominent scientists, executives and medical researchers will lose out.
Ultimately, so will the consumer. Why donate this talent to our global
competitors when we can use it ourselves?

Sadly, HR 2202 would also slash the admission of refugees. Under current law,
the president sets the annual limit. In recent years that limit has averaged
about 125,000. HR 2202 would prohibit the president from selecting a figure
above 50,000. That might still sound like a lot, but it represents only one
refugee for every 5,000 Americans, and it accommodates only one out of every 400
of the world's refugees.

The stated justification for radically reducing our refugee admissions is the
end of the Cold War. Tragically, however, there is still no end in sight for
persecution and suffering. Ask any Bosnian or Rwandan. We cannot take everyone,
but needless cuts of this magnitude will only intensify human suffering and send
the wrong message to other refugee-receiving nations.

Moreover, in making these annual refugee determinations, presidents have had to
consider a wide range of sensitive domestic and international issues. They have
had to respond rapidly and flexibly to volatile changes in world refugee flows.
Why tie the president's hands?

These are just a few provisions of HR 2202. The rest of its 300 pages similarly
batter immigrants at every turn.

But put aside the personal hardships. The national interest alone is reason
enough to oppose HR 2202. Legal immigrants pay income tax, sales tax, property
tax, gasoline tax and Social Security tax. They buy goods and services, creating
jobs in the process. They start businesses that revitalize our cities. Their
talent and experience help American industries thrive in the global economy and
enable the American consumer to enjoy what is still one of the world's highest
standards of living.

Economics aside, immigrants contribute immeasurably to the sciences, to the
arts, to our literary treasures, to our political dialogue, to sports and
entertainment.

However one feels about illegal immigration, this is not the time to declare war
on legal immigrants or on the American family members, companies and
universities that need them. Let's take a collective deep breath and think hard
before turning our backs on the institutions and the values that shaped America.
There is still time for cool heads to prevail.

LOAD-DATE: October 15, 1995

LANGUAGE: English

                  Copyright 1995 St. Louis Post-Dispatch, Inc.


                              17 of 308 DOCUMENTS

                       St. Louis Post-Dispatch (Missouri)

               November 28, 1995, Tuesday, FIVE STAR LIFT Edition

COMMON SENSE ON IMMIGRATION

SECTION: EDITORIAL; Pg. 10B

LENGTH: 395 words


By cutting the heart out of California's ill-considered Proposition 187, a
federal judge in Los Angeles has restored to illegal immigrants protections that
federal law provides. She also rescued teachers, social workers and medical
personnel from becoming intelligence agents, determining the immigration status
of those who are seeking their help. The ruling restores sanity to the often
irrational debate over immigration and government assistance.

Proposition 187, the so-called "Save Our State" initiative championed by Gov.
Pete Wilson, won 59 percent approval from California voters last November.
Immediately, advocates for immigrant rights filed suit against the measure and
won a preliminary injunction from U.S. District Judge Mariana Pfaelzer.

Now, her 71-page ruling has struck down most of its provisions, saying that the
state may not put into place its own immigration regulations that run counter to
those of the federal government.

As a result, Judge Pfaelzer said, California may not make an independent
determination of the immigration status of anyone who is seeking government
benefits, except in cases where the money involved is totally state funds, not
federal. Because the only programs run totally by state money are prenatal care
and long-term care for the elderly, the reach of Proposition 187's harsh
restrictions has been severely limited.

While she sympathized with voters' frustration over the federal government's
inability to stop illegal immigration, Judge Pfaelzer said such feelings do not
give California the right to regulate on its own who enters the country. Only
Washington has such power, she said.

State officials plan to appeal her ruling, and the ultimate decision is expected
to be made by the U.S. Supreme Court in the next several years. Meanwhile, those
who supported the goals of Proposition 187 may push to have its restrictions
adopted on the national level; in that case, the victory gained by Judge
Pfaelzer's order may be short-lived.

Ideally, anti-immigrant fervor will cool, and people will realize that punishing
the young, the sick and anyone who may appear to be an undocumented alien is the
most unfair way to combat illegal immigration. Tightening up American borders
makes sense; withholding basic government services from the most vulnerable
immigrants who are already here does not.

LOAD-DATE: November 28, 1995

LANGUAGE: English

TYPE: EDITORIAL

                  Copyright 1995 St. Louis Post-Dispatch, Inc.


                              18 of 308 DOCUMENTS

                       St. Louis Post-Dispatch (Missouri)

               January 13, 1996, Saturday, FIVE STAR LIFT Edition

U.S. BRACES TO COMBAT WAVE OF ILLEGAL ALIENS

BYLINE: the Associated Press

SECTION: WAR PAGE; Pg. 11B

LENGTH: 385 words

DATELINE: WASHINGTON


THE GOVERNMENT will intensify its effort against illegal crossings of the
Mexican border with Arizona and California starting Tuesday, sending in more
agents and modern equipment and strengthening checkpoints.  The immediate aim is
to combat an expected surge of illegal immigrants - a combination of normal,
seasonal increases and economic hard times stemming from devaluation of the
Mexican peso. In the longer term, the effort also is part of a plan to control
illegal immigration and smuggling, Attorney General Janet Reno and Immigration
Commissioner Doris Meissner said Friday.

"Today, the border is harder to cross than at any time in our history," Reno
said. But she added that "there is no quick fix" for a deluge of illegal
immigration from Mexico.

Meissner said the administration was determined "to restore the rule of law to
the border after years of neglect."

But she cautioned against reading too much into one part of the enhancement
program - increased coordination with the armed forces, to ma

ke sure that troops operate in the sectors where they are most needed. She said
there would be no increase in the 200-300 members of the armed forces who
already were helping the immigration service in border control and anti-drug
smuggling efforts. The Pentagon cooperation includes road-and-fence building,
operation of communications equipment and night vision scopes.

The enhanced enforcement will link initiatives along the California and Arizona
borders. About 300 additional federal agents will be sent to the area, with
assistance from 135 local law enforcement officers, state-of-the-art ground
sensors, new roads, night vision devices, 13 strengthened checkpoints and
airport surveillance.

Local law enforcement agencies will, for the first time, be reimbursed by the
federal government as part of improved cooperation along the busiest corridor
for illegal crossings. Many of the federal agents will be sent from other border
areas. But they will be replaced by April 16 with some of the 1,000 new border
patrol officers who will be hired and trained during the next year.

The immigration agency said it caught 1.3 million illegal aliens in the fiscal
year that ended Sept. 30, an increase from 1.1 million the previous year. Most
were along the border with Mexico.

LOAD-DATE: January 14, 1996

LANGUAGE: English

GRAPHIC: PHOTO; Photo by AP - Attorney General Janet Reno announces the
government's plan to begin intensifying its efforts against illegal crossings
from Mexico into California and Arizona. Immigration Commissioner Doris Meissner
looks on.

                  Copyright 1996 St. Louis Post-Dispatch, Inc.


                              19 of 308 DOCUMENTS

                       St. Louis Post-Dispatch (Missouri)

               January 13, 1996, Saturday, FIVE STAR LIFT Edition

U.S. BRACES TO COMBAT WAVE OF ILLEGAL ALIENS

BYLINE: the Associated Press

SECTION: WAR PAGE; Pg. 11B

LENGTH: 385 words

DATELINE: WASHINGTON ENHANCER BWINANS


THE GOVERNMENT will intensify its effort against illegal crossings of the
Mexican border with Arizona and California starting Tuesday, sending in more
agents and modern equipment and strengthening checkpoints.  The immediate aim is
to combat an expected surge of illegal immigrants - a combination of normal,
seasonal increases and economic hard times stemming from devaluation of the
Mexican peso. In the longer term, the effort also is part of a plan to control
illegal immigration and smuggling, Attorney General Janet Reno and Immigration
Commissioner Doris Meissner said Friday.

"Today, the border is harder to cross than at any time in our history," Reno
said. But she added that "there is no quick fix" for a deluge of illegal
immigration from Mexico.

Meissner said the administration was determined "to restore the rule of law to
the border after years of neglect."

But she cautioned against reading too much into one part of the enhancement
program - increased coordination with the armed forces, to ma

ke sure that troops operate in the sectors where they are most needed. She said
there would be no increase in the 200-300 members of the armed forces who
already were helping the immigration service in border control and anti-drug
smuggling efforts. The Pentagon cooperation includes road-and-fence building,
operation of communications equipment and night vision scopes.

The enhanced enforcement will link initiatives along the California and Arizona
borders. About 300 additional federal agents will be sent to the area, with
assistance from 135 local law enforcement officers, state-of-the-art ground
sensors, new roads, night vision devices, 13 strengthened checkpoints and
airport surveillance.

Local law enforcement agencies will, for the first time, be reimbursed by the
federal government as part of improved cooperation along the busiest corridor
for illegal crossings. Many of the federal agents will be sent from other border
areas. But they will be replaced by April 16 with some of the 1,000 new border
patrol officers who will be hired and trained during the next year.

The immigration agency said it caught 1.3 million illegal aliens in the fiscal
year that ended Sept. 30, an increase from 1.1 million the previous year. Most
were along the border with Mexico.

LOAD-DATE: January 14, 1996

LANGUAGE: English

GRAPHIC: PHOTO; Photo by AP - Attorney General Janet Reno announces the
government's plan to begin intensifying its efforts against illegal crossings
from Mexico into California and Arizona. Immigration Commissioner Doris Meissner
looks on.

                  Copyright 1996 St. Louis Post-Dispatch, Inc.


                              20 of 308 DOCUMENTS

                       St. Louis Post-Dispatch (Missouri)

                  January 14, 1996, Sunday, THREE STAR Edition

U.S. ISSUES WARNINGS IN INFOMERCIAL TO COMBAT ILLEGAL IMMIGRATION

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 7A

LENGTH: 309 words

DATELINE: MIAMI


Facing a tide of illegal immigrants, U.S. authorities are striking back with an
"infomercial," aired in the Caribbean and Latin America, that warns of the risks
that illegal newcomers face in the United States.

Most infomercials are late-night programs that tempt television viewers into
buying beauty aids, kitchen gadgets and other products. But the new program from
the Immigration and Naturalization Service is intended to warn watchers of the
dangers of dealing with smugglers. It also details immigration enforcement
efforts.  "If I can offer a word of advice to those who may be considering
visiting or living and working in the United States illegally, I would urge them
to put this thought out of their mind," says Deputy INS Commissioner Chris Sale,
who is featured in the broadcast.

"Added resources, personnel and technology are helping us to locate, identify,
arrest and deport increasing numbers of those who violate our immigration laws,"
she said.

In the hour-long, Spanish-language broadcast, Sale also warns of the dangers of
trying an illegal crossing - getting lost in the desert or abandoned in the hull
of a ship - and holds a question-and-answer session with reporters from Mexico,
Guatemala and El Salvador.

Additional programs targeting other parts of the world are planned later, said
Jim Michie, the INS public affairs officer in Washington.

He explained, "These are programs designed to establish a dialogue . . . so that
we can educate these individuals on what we're doing, how we're doing it, not
only to protect our borders but also to protect the unsuspecting individuals who
may be enticed into an arrangement with a smuggler."

But lawyers who work with immigrants said they thought a television or radio
program would have little effect on those who attempt to enter the United States
illegally.

LOAD-DATE: January 14, 1996

LANGUAGE: English

                  Copyright 1996 St. Louis Post-Dispatch, Inc.


                              21 of 308 DOCUMENTS

                       St. Louis Post-Dispatch (Missouri)

               March 20, 1996, Wednesday, FIVE STAR LIFT Edition

SPLIT DECISION ON IMMIGRATION

SECTION: EDITORIAL; Pg. 8B

LENGTH: 365 words


By splitting legislation to limit immigration into two parts - one dealing with
legal immigrants and the other with illegal immigrants - the Senate Judiciary
Committee has helped bring a measure of calm to an issue that too often relies
on emotion rather than reason. Both legal and illegal immigration could use some
attention, but considering them together has helped obscure the real issues.

The committee's vote last week was a victory for senators who want to keep
generous quotas for legal immigrants as well as for businesses that did not want
to see their supply of labor diminished. Sen. Edward Kennedy of Massachusetts, a
leader of the majority in the surprisingly lopsided 12-6 decision to split the
bills, called the bipartisan vote "a welcome sign that Congress won't let
legitimate concerns about illegal immigration create an unjustified backlash
against those who enter the country legally under our immigration laws."

That distinction has been too often buried under overheated rhetoric on the
immigration issue, including misguided proposals to build a wall on the
Texas-Mexico border and other absurd notions. As opponents have pointed out,
cutting legal immigration would split families, hurt companies that face a
shortage in certain kinds of skills and repeal a tradition that has turned
generations of foreigners into Americans and made this nation unique.

The problem of illegal immigration is quite different. If legal immigrants flout
the law by overstaying their visas, they deserve to face the consequences. If
others try to ignore or evade U.S. rules or quotas by sneaking into the country
or falsifying documents, they too should be called to account.

Will that effort be hurt by the decision to split the immigration legislation
into two parts? In an election year, with so many other issues in Washington
still unresolved, two bills may be harder to consider than just one. But the
pressures of the calendar and the campaign should not be allowed to push basic
fairness into the background. Legal immigration and illegal immigration are
separate issues, requiring separate solutions. Dealing with them separately is
the best way to proceed.

LOAD-DATE: March 20, 1996

LANGUAGE: English

TYPE: EDITORIAL

                  Copyright 1996 St. Louis Post-Dispatch, Inc.


                              22 of 308 DOCUMENTS

                       St. Louis Post-Dispatch (Missouri)

                  May 3, 1996, Friday, FIVE STAR LIFT Edition

SENATE VOTES TO TIGHTEN BORDERS; IMMIGRATION MEASURE TARGETS EMPLOYMENT

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 1A

LENGTH: 764 words

DATELINE: WASHINGTON


The Senate passed an immigration bill Thursday that would tighten border
controls and make it tougher for illegal aliens to get U.S. jobs. It would also
curtail legal immigrants' access to social services.

The 97-3 vote sends the legislation to a conference committee, where
representatives and senators will attempt to resolve differences between House
and Senate versions of the bill.

Senate Majority Leader Bob Dole said the vote sends a message "that America will
no longer stand by passively - we will take control of our borders."

President Bill Clinton said he was pleased that the bill would toughen
"penalties for alien smugglers, criminal aliens and manufacturers and sellers of
fraudulent documents."

The measure would nearly double the Border Patrol guards to about 10,000 and
authorize test projects that would let employers easily check whether a worker
can legally work in the United States.

Smugglers would face far tougher penalties under the legislation, as would those
who engage in the multimillion-dollar business of manufacturing fake driver's
licenses, birth certificates and other identification cards. The bill also calls
for more detention facilities for those caught in the country illegally and
streamlined deportation procedures to remove them more quickly.

The measure's chief author, Sen. Alan Simpson, R-Wyo., said, "We have stuff in
there that has everything but the rack and the thumbscrew for people who are
violating the laws of the United States."

Sen. Edward M. Kennedy, D-Mass., who worked with Simpson to write the bill, said
it contains provisions to "reduce the opportunities of the job market to be a
magnet for those that want to come across our borders and work in America and
displace American workers."

A key difference between the Senate and House bills is the House-passed
provision that would let states deny public education to undocumented immigrant
children. Kennedy called that offensive and said he would work to keep it out of
the conference bill.

Clinton said that while he generally supported the bill, "It still goes too far
in denying legal immigrants access to vital safety net programs which could
jeopardize public health and safety."

Neither the Senate bill nor the House bill would impose new limits on the number
of legal immigrants admitted. The House stripped out such provisions. In the
Senate, a separate bill addressing that issue awaits action, although Simpson
said that was dead for now.

To reduce employment of illegal aliens, the Senate bill calls for standardized,
counterfeit-proof birth certificates and other state-issued identification
documents, while making it easier for employers to ensure that the people they
hire are eligible to work here.

It would reduce from 29 to six the number of acceptable identifying documents
and set up a database that employers could contact to make sure a worker's name
and Social Security number matched.

Although the bill largely targets illegal aliens, it also would make it tougher
for legal immigrants to obtain public benefits based on need. Under current law,
the income of an immigrant's sponsor is considered in deciding eligibility for
certain benefits - Aid to Families with Dependent Children, Supplemental
Security Income and food stamps - for three years a fter arrival.

The Senate bill would use the sponsor's income as the determining income for
almost all public benefits - with the exception of the school lunch and Women,
Infants and Children feeding programs - for up to 10 years or until the
immigrant becomes a citizen, which takes five years. The sponsor's obligation
would become legally enforceable under the bill.

In addition, a legal immigrant could be deported for receiving virtually any
public benefits for more than 12 months during the first fiv e years here.

The bill also would overturn rules that became law just a week ago limiting
asylum-seekers' rights to enter the country and prove their case. The rules,
part of the anti-terrorism law signed by Clinton on April 24, were targeted at
those who arrive with no documents or fraudulent documents.

But Sen. Patrick Leahy, D-Vt., who wrote the amendment, said people in fear for
their lives from their own governments cannot be expected to obtain legal
documents from those governments in order to flee.

Voting against the immigration bill were three Democratic senators: Russell
Feingold of Wisconsin, Bob Graham of Florida and Paul Simon of Illinois.

Simon said the bill included measures that were "mean spirited and
short-sighted."

LOAD-DATE: May 3, 1996

LANGUAGE: English

                  Copyright 1996 St. Louis Post-Dispatch, Inc.


                              23 of 308 DOCUMENTS

                       St. Louis Post-Dispatch (Missouri)

                June 20, 1996, Thursday, FIVE STAR LIFT Edition

DOLE RAPS SCHOOLING FOR ILLEGAL IMMIGRANTS; HE ENDORSES MEASURE ALLOWING STATE
CURBS

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 7A

LENGTH: 450 words

DATELINE: WOODLAND HILLS, CALIF.


In a state where immigration is a hot issue, soon-to-be GOP presidential
candidate Bob Dole criticized President Bill Clinton's immigration policy
Wednesday and backed restricting education to illegal immigrants.

"It's bad enough that the federal government has failed to properly secure the
border. What's worse is the federal government tells the states they've got to
pay for it," Dole said at a campaign event in this Los Angeles suburb.

Speaking at a used-computer firm that donates computers to schools as a
charitable project, Dole endorsed legislation that would permit states to deny
public education to children of illegal immigrants.

He said federal requirements mandating education of illegal immigrants forced
states to spend money that could be used for such purposes as hiring teachers or
buying computers.

Dole said California spent about $ 1.8 billion a year educating such children.
"It's one of the most expensive requirements of all time," he said.

He endorsed a provision, sponsored by California Republican Rep. Elton Gallegly,
in a pending immigration bill that would allow states to cut off funding of
education for illegal immigrants.

"It's not that we don't care," Dole said. "It's not that we're not
compassionate. But where do you draw the line?"

The Dole campaign said 355,000 children of illegal aliens were in California
schools.

The Gallegly amendment would restore a portion of California's Proposition 187,
passed in 1994, which was blocked by a court ruling. The amendment was included
in a version of a major immigration bill passed by the House, but was omitted
from the Senate version.

Clinton has indicated he will veto the bill if the final version includes the
Gallegly amendment.

"In my administration, America will take back control of the borders," Dole said
at another outdoor rally attended by about 1,000 people.

Dole has been courting California voters, who control 54 electoral votes out of
270 needed to win the presidency. Political analysts say Clinton must win
California as he did in 1992 if he is to have a chance to be re-elected.

Gov. Pete Wilson, who introduced Dole, is a strong supporter of the measure. He
cited a "federal failure to secure the borders" and said Dole "has understood
that states, and not the federal government in Washington, deserve to make
decisions on how state tax dollars are spent."

"He's a fighter for California," Wilson said.

But not all Republican governors like the notion of denying public education to
illegal immigrant children. In Texas, for instance, Gov. George W. Bush has said
he does not favor ending public education to students whose parents are illegal
immigrants.

LOAD-DATE: June 20, 1996

LANGUAGE: English

                  Copyright 1996 St. Louis Post-Dispatch, Inc.


                              24 of 308 DOCUMENTS

                       St. Louis Post-Dispatch (Missouri)

                    May 31, 1992, SUNDAY, THREE STAR Edition

ILLEGAL IMMIGRATION 'BUSINESS AS USUAL' MORE NATIONALITIES CROSS BORDERS EACH;
DAY

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 11C

LENGTH: 429 words


WASHINGTON - Every day, thousands of Mexicans and Central Americans
surreptitiously cross the U.S.-Mexican border carrying little more than their
dreams of a better life.  Last year in the region around El Paso, Texas, the
Border Patrol apprehended illegal entrants representing 75 nationalities. Some
fled homelands racked by war or political oppression, but most were
bread-and-butter migrants hoping to trade poverty for prosperity.  Despite
passage of the 1986 Immigration Reform and Control Act - which ordered sanctions
against employers who hire illegal aliens - millions of illegal immigrants
continue to find jobs in American restaurant kitchens, garment factories, tomato
fields, parking garages and taxicabs, or pushing brooms and performing a number
of other menial tasks.  The number of people caught at the border dropped
sharply from 1986 to 1989 as the new law took effect. But apprehensions have
increased sharply in the past two years.  Roughly 1.2 million people were
intercepted last yea r and apprehensions were up 15 percent in the first quarter
of this year. For every person apprehended, officials at the Immigration and
Naturalization Service suspect that three or four others get through.  According
to public opinion polls, two-thirds of Americans now believe the United States
is being overrun and overburdened by illegal immigrants.  The new law's failure
to deter illegal immigration can be attributed to a number of factors, including
a big trade in counterfeit identity documents, an increase in labor contractors
acting as middlemen for employers and weak INS enforcement of penalties against
those who hire undocumented workers. Since 1986, the INS has fined thousands of
employers, but the average penalty in 1990 was $850.  ''Those who delayed
migration in the past are now coming having observed that work is still
available even for new arrivals lacking papers,'' said Jorge Bustamante,
president of Tijuana's College of the Northern Border, a leading center for
immigration research. ''It has returned to business as usual.'' In an effort to
staunch the flow along its southern border, the United States recently added 300
Border Patrol agents, put up new stadium lights and constructed a 10-foot-high,
solid-steel barricade along a 14-mile stretch of the frontier, just south of San
Diego.  The fact that each night literally hundreds of men and women clamber
over the barricade is testament to its ineffectiveness - and to the irresistible
pull of U.S. jobs that on average pay eight times their equivalent in Mexico.

LOAD-DATE: October 11, 1993

LANGUAGE: English

                  Copyright 1992 St. Louis Post-Dispatch, Inc.


                              25 of 308 DOCUMENTS

                       St. Louis Post-Dispatch (Missouri)

                    June 19, 1992, FRIDAY, FIVE STAR Edition

BASIC RIGHTS FOR DETAINED ALIENS

SECTION: EDITORIAL; Pg. 2C

LENGTH: 287 words


People arrested as illegal aliens have finally won a much-deserved victory to be
informed of their rights. After a 14-year court battle, a federal judge in Los
Angeles has signed a preliminary agreement requiring the government to let
detained aliens know that they have the right to contact a lawyer and to tell
them how they may apply for legal status. The agreement assures that aliens will
get the vital information they should have been given all along.  A suit brought
in 1978 by the Center for Human Rights and Constitutional Law came after
authorities arrested scores of aliens in a raid on a Los Angeles shoe factory.
The aliens said they were not allowed to seek legal help and were coerced by
immigration authorities into waiving their rights and agreeing to accept
immediate expulsion from the country.  The lengthy battle against the
Immigration and Naturalization Service finally led to an agreement that could
affect as many as 1.5 million people who are arrested as illegal aliens each
year. Under the settlement, a new form will be issued to all aliens who are
detained, advising that they may contact a lawyer and a consular officer who
represents their home country. They also must be told how they can become legal
U.S. residents. Another form will be revised so that detainees are asked whether
they feel they face harm if they are returned to their home; most of them would
be allowed to appear before an immigration judge to seek asylum.  Such
information is basic for anyone caught in the complexity of the legal system.
For the system to work as it should, the battle must be fought fairly.  It's
about time that immigration officials agreed to level the playing field for each
side.

LOAD-DATE: October 11, 1993

LANGUAGE: English

                  Copyright 1992 St. Louis Post-Dispatch, Inc.


                              26 of 308 DOCUMENTS

                       St. Louis Post-Dispatch (Missouri)

                   July 25, 1992, SATURDAY, FIVE STAR Edition

MCNARY CRITICIZES CIVIL RIGHTS GROUPS IMMIGRATION ADVOCATE CALLS REMARKS;
'ABHORRENT'

BYLINE: Virgil Tipton Of the Post-Dispatch Staff

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 3A

LENGTH: 494 words


U.S. Immigration Commissioner Gene McNary fired a few shots Friday at civil
rights groups and California officials for promoting health care and education
for illegal immigrants, services that he said amounted to an open invitation to
jump the border.  McNary said some civil-rights and immigrant-rights groups
''are well-intentioned, but . . . they go beyond standing up for the immigrant
and in my judgment actually encourage this illegal entry and illegal
participation.'' But the directing attorney for the National Immigration Law
Center in Los Angeles said McNary was mistaken on several counts.  ''I think
it's abhorrent that the commissioner would make these statements without doing
his homework,'' the lawyer, Charles Wheeler, said in a telephone interview.
McNary, a former St. Louis County executive, made the remarks in a noon address
before the Press Club of Metropolitan St. Louis.  McNary said that too many
immigrants can overload the nation's services.  But some states provide services
that are an irresistible draw for illegal immigrants, he said.  ''California
provides welfare,'' McNary said. ''They provide health services. They provide
housing. They not only provide education, but the 9th Circuit Court of Appeals .
. . has declared that illegal immigrants are residents. They don't even have to
pay the non-resident tuition.  ''The invitation to come in to the United States
is there. It's against the law, my friends,'' McNary said.  Wheeler said McNary
was wrong in claiming that public benefit programs draw illegal immigrants.
''All studies - and common wisdom - indicate that aliens come to the United
States for employment,'' Wheeler said. Illegal immigrants in all states are
''eligible for emergency Medicaid, which is limited to extreme cases,'' he said.
Some states also provide preventive health care because that is more
cost-effective than treating medical emergencies, he said.  ''It's counter to a
civilized nation to allow someone to suffer and possibly die simply because of
their immigration status,'' he said.  Wheeler also said McNary was wrong in
claiming that California provides welfare and housing. As for education, a
Supreme Court ruling in 1984 required all states to provide education to aliens
from kindergarten through 12th grade, he said.  In addition, the 9th Circuit has
not ruled on the question of resident tuition for aliens, he said.  McNary also
said that he thought Vice President Dan Quayle should - and would - remain on
the Republican ticket with McNary's boss, President George Bush.  ''I think Dan
Quayle is an outstanding vice president,'' McNary said.  ''It's hard for the
general public to get a true picture of Dan Quayle because the media has so
completely maligned the guy.'' McNary, an Indiana native like Quayle, then
quipped, ''Besides, in Indiana, that's the way we spell potato,'' referring to a
recent, well-publicized incident in which Quayle misspelled the vegetable.

LOAD-DATE: October 12, 1993

LANGUAGE: English

GRAPHIC: Photo; PHOTO of Gene McNary...No open invitation

                  Copyright 1992 St. Louis Post-Dispatch, Inc.


                              27 of 308 DOCUMENTS

                       St. Louis Post-Dispatch (Missouri)

                  August 6, 1992, THURSDAY, FIVE STAR Edition

MCNARY DENIES REPORTS OF BORDER PATROL ABUSE

BYLINE: Robert L. Koenig Post-Dispatch Washington Bureau

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 14A

LENGTH: 642 words


WASHINGTON - Immigration Commissioner Gene McNary defended the nation's
BorderPatrol on Wednesday against allegations that its agents had beaten,
intimidated and abused undocumented aliens.  Dismissing the complaints of two
human-rights groups and a member of Congress, McNary told a House panel that
''the Border Patrol demonstrates an incredible record of professional conduct.''
But Aryeh Neier, executive director of Human Rights Watch, alleged that ''Border
Patrol agents behave in the field as if they are accountable to no one.
Beatings, rough physical treatment, intimidation tactics and verbal abuse are
routine.'' And Maria Jimenez, director of the American Friends Service
Committee's immigration law enforcement project, said her group had identified
392 people who had complained of abuse by Border Patrol agents from May 1989 to
May 1991.  Both Neier and Jimenez charged that a Border Patrol agent had
violated law enforcement standards on June 12 when he fatally shot an unarmed
Mexican in the back at a canyon near Nogales, Ariz. Immigration officials said
the man was an undocumented alien who was fleeing to avoid arrest.  Rep. Esteban
E. Torres, D-Calif., charged that ''the violation of human rights at our borders
is of crisis proportions, and demands immediate action.'' But other House
members joined McNary in defending the Border Patrol's record.  McNary contended
that border agents ''conform to established law enforcement policies and
guidelines on the use of force.'' He said Border Patrol agents were often the
victims of assaults, often in trying to break up drug-smuggling operations.
During the nine months that ended June 30, McNary said, there were 158 physical
assaults on Border Patrol agents - 89 of which involved a weapon. He said border
agents had been involved in 37 ''shooting incidents'' related to those assaults.
McNary, a former St. Louis County executive, has headed the Immigration and
Naturalization Service since 1989. He brought in Gilbert H. Kleinknecht, the
former St. Louis County police chief, to be the immigration service's associate
commissioner for law enforcement. The Border Patrol - with 3,600 agents and
support staff - is the main law enforcement arm of the immigration service.
Congressional investigators from the General Accounting Office told the House
Subcommittee on International Law, Immigration and Refugees that the proportion
of Border Patrol agents' time devoted to patrolling U.S. borders had decreased
11 percent over the past five years. During that same period, the Border
Patrol's budget increased 82 percent, to $299 million.  The GAO also found that
many of the Border Patrol's vehicles and electronic equipment were in poor
condition.  Harold A. Valentine, a GAO official, said, ''Given that the flow of
aliens illegally into the country continues to be a substantial problem . . .
the Border Patrol's ability to carry out its law enforcement mission has been
negatively affected by the decrease in the proportion of agent time devoted to
border control activities.'' McNary told the House panel that the Immigration
and Naturalization Service was hiring about 300 new Border Patrol guards, and
was improving technology to help guard the nation's borders and prevent some
violent incidents. But McNary said ''drug interdiction remains a highly volatile
and potentially violent activity along the border.'' Last year, McNary said, the
Border Patrol arrested 17,604 suspected drug traffickers and seized about $950
million worth of drugs. He said border agents had apprehended 18,826 persons who
were alleged to have smuggled a total of 64,000 illegal aliens into the United
States.  ''Contrary to the allegations of widespread abuse of aliens, the Border
Patrol has a record of discipline and devotion to the preservation of human
life,'' McNary said.

LOAD-DATE: October 12, 1993

LANGUAGE: English

GRAPHIC: Photo; Photo (Headshot) - Gene McNary - Defends Border Patrol

                  Copyright 1992 St. Louis Post-Dispatch, Inc.


                              28 of 308 DOCUMENTS

                       St. Louis Post-Dispatch (Missouri)

                  March 3, 1993, WEDNESDAY, FIVE STAR Edition

ILLEGAL ALIENS ARE FOUND IN SUNSET HILLS

BYLINE: Tim Bryant Of the Post-Dispatch Staff

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 7A

LENGTH: 213 words


Immigration authorities are returning to Mexico or Central America most of the
25 illegal aliens caught this week working at a greenhouse in Sunset Hills.

"It's a pretty big load for us," said Chester F. Moyer, head of the Immigration
and Naturalization Service office here.

At first, INS officials believed a dozen or so illegal aliens were working at
Heimos Greenhouses, 12345 Eddie and Park Road. But when agents arrived at the
business Monday, they found 25 illegal aliens - 13 men and 12 women - ranging in
age from their teens to 59. Many are in their 40s.

Sixteen of them agreed to return home. Moyer said the INS would deliver them to
the Mexican border at El Paso, Texas. The others probably will go before an
immigration judge.

Moyer says 22 of those picked up Monday are from Mexico; two are from Honduras
and one is from El Salvador. Some sneaked into the United States, and others
overstayed their visas, Moyer said.

A few had been in the United States illegally since 1984; others arrived last
year, Moyer said. They came to St. Louis after "hearing through the grapevine"
that jobs were available here, Moyer added.

The greenhouse owners cooperated with authorities, tipping them off to
immigration documents that appeared to be bogus.

LOAD-DATE: September 29, 1993

LANGUAGE: English

                  Copyright 1993 St. Louis Post-Dispatch, Inc.


                              29 of 308 DOCUMENTS

                       St. Louis Post-Dispatch (Missouri)

                  March 31, 1993, WEDNESDAY, FIVE STAR Edition

MCNARY URGES INDEPENDENCE FOR AGENCY; DEFENDS IMMIGRATION SERVICE

BYLINE: Jon Sawyer Post-Dispatch Washington Bureau

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 1A

LENGTH: 863 words

DATELINE: WASHINGTON


The problems that plague the Immigration and Naturalization Service can only be
solved by removing it from the Justice Department and making it an independent
agency, former INS Commissioner Gene McNary said Tuesday.

"Although INS has a major role to play in the national interest, it has never
had a major voice in the Department of Justice," McNary told a subcommittee of
the House Government Operations Committee.

"Most attorneys general not only don't know anything about immigration, they
don't have the slightest interest."

McNary, who stepped down in January after three years at the helm of INS, said
the bombing last month of the World Trade Center in New York and an earlier
attack by a gunman outside CIA headquarters in Langley, Va., underscore a
systemic breakdown in U.S. immigration law and policy. Illegal aliens have been
linked to both attacks.

Social services, from hospitals to schools to welfare, are overwhelmed.  One of
every four inmates in federal prisons is an illegal alien. Local ordinances in
New York and San Francisco actually prohibit city employees from notifying the
INS of immigration violations.

"Perhaps the most serious adverse effect is the breakdown of respect for our
laws," McNary said. The hiring of an illegal alien by Zoe E. Baird, President
Bill Clinton's first choice for attorney general, was only the most dramatic
instance among many, he said.

McNary lashed out as well at the policies of states that have extended full
social services to illegal immigrants.

"California invites people in," McNary said. "There's a milieu of acceptance of
illegal entry in California. And so it is in Florida, and some other states,
too."

Laws enacted in 1986 and 1990 that were intended to stanch the flood of illegal
immigrants are "meaningless," McNary said.

Congress never provided funds for the increases in Border Patrol guards who were
supposed to shut down illegal border crossings. It never took action that would
have implemented the ban on hiring illegal aliens.

But the biggest problem, McNary insisted, was a Justice Department structure
that gave the lion's share of attention, and resources, to the FBI and the Drug
Enforcement Administration.

The Organized Crime Drug Enforcement Task Unit, an initiative of George Bush's
administration, targeted $ 400 million for coordinating law enforcement
activities, McNary recalled. The INS received $ 14 million, or 3.5 percent, even
though alien groups comprised most of the suspect organizations.

McNary said that when he arrived at the INS, proposed regulations for asylum
seekers had been pending before the Justice Department for nearly a decade. He
got them approved after another year of "constant urging," he said, but left
office still unsuccessful in his request for streamlined procedures.

McNary complained that no one consulted him before Bush's administration imposed
an embargo on Haiti - which led, among other things, to a crush of Haitians
seeking asylum. Nor was the INS consulted on the immigration implications of the
North American Free Trade Agreement.

"I asked myself, 'Why? Why is the INS never consulted?' And the only answer I
have is that it's hidden in the Justice Department."

The INS won't change, he warned, "unless it's an independent agency, and in
focus." He also called for setting a fixed term for the INS commissioner, and
for making that job a non-political appointment. A fixed term would give the
agency the stability it now lacks, he said.

The subcommittee also heard from a range of critics who said INS had no one to
blame but itself, for a record that includes high levels of corruption,
mismanagement, slipshod training and poor management of basic immigration data.

Richard J. Hankinson, the Justice Department's Inspector General, said that was
the bottom line of audits of the INS over the past three years by his office, by
congressional committees and by the U.S. General Accounting Office.

The INS, Hankinson said, "lacks methods to collect information, to sort it, to
analyze it, to verify it, and it lacks the coordinative and planning
capabilities to use the information, even if available."

Hankinson said that although he could not speak for Attorney General Janet Reno,
his own opinion was that seeking independent status for the INS was impractical.
He also suggested that making the effort would "distract employees from any
other work."

McNary said the litany of complaints about specific INS shortcomings were for
the most part out of date. Data management is much improved, he said.  Long
airport lines have been eliminated. The number of trained asylum adjudicators
has doubled. Internal management reforms are in place.

"What you heard here today was outdated," he complained to the subcommittee,
"and that's appalling."

McNary said he was impressed by Reno and pleased that she had opted, during her
first days in office, to visit INS headquarters. But he warned that no amount of
personal attention would change its stepchild status.

"I have a high regard for Janet Reno," he said, "but I don't think it's within
her capability to correct this."

LOAD-DATE: September 29, 1993

LANGUAGE: English

GRAPHIC: PHOTO; Photo Headshot - (Gene) McNary

                  Copyright 1993 St. Louis Post-Dispatch, Inc.


                              30 of 308 DOCUMENTS

                       St. Louis Post-Dispatch (Missouri)

                  August 19, 1993, THURSDAY, FIVE STAR Edition

IMMIGRATION OFFICIALS RELEASE 29 ILLEGAL ALIENS HERE

BYLINE: Tim Bryant and Nordeka English Of the Post-Dispatch Staff

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 1A

LENGTH: 650 words


When police in Warrenton found 29 Mexicans without papers jammed into a stifling
rental truck, they called in the Immigration and Naturalization Service.  To the
surprise of the police, the federal officials promptly let the immigrants go.
"It's a matter of funding and manpower," says Chester Moyer, head of the
agency's office in St. Louis. "We have no trouble finding the aliens.  It's a
problem finding enough manpower to process the aliens.  "That's not to say it's
the way we like to handle these matters." The latest such matter began Monday,
when the Warrenton police found the truck on a parking lot. Warren County
Sheriff Michael Baker said that the truck had held 29 Mexicans, most of them
from one family - and that the heat was intense.  For the men and boys jammed in
the back, a few containers and the truck's floor served as toilets. A woman and
two girls rode up front with the driver.  They apparently crossed the border
into Arizona late last week, Moyer said.  Many had paid $500 or more to be
hustled into the United States and put aboard the truck.  They spent Monday
night at the New Life Evangelistic Center in St. Louis.  Ricardo Zaldo, the
Mexican consul here, said Wednesday that he had arranged other places for some
of the aliens to stay Tuesday night and had helped to exchange their pesos for
dollars.  By Wednesday, all had left St. Louis. The truck, a Ryder rental, was
retrieved by the company; it had been rented in Arizona.  St. Louis is a
crossroads for illegal aliens, especially in the summer, when migrant farm
workers are on the move. The Mexicans picked up in Warrenton were among 68
illegal aliens intercepted in the area in the past week, Moyer said.  He called
the number typical for this time of year.  Rick Kenney, an Immigration
Department spokesman in Washington, said the release of the Mexicans "does not
give them legal status to remain in the United States." Some might be picked up
later for other offenses and sent home, he said.  Moyer said many of the aliens
claimed they had jobs harvesting mushrooms near Reading, Pa., northwest of
Philadelphia. Immigration authorities here alerted agency officials in
Philadelphia to watch for growers hiring illegal aliens.  But the release of
such aliens is standard procedure across the country.  Moyer said illegal aliens
were usually just sent on their way unless they have fraudulent papers, are
working illegally or are wanted for crimes.  Border police estimate they catch
only a third of the people who enter the country illegally, Moyer said. As a
result, he said, the Immigration Department decided in the early 1980s that it
simply lacked the resources to pursue many cases.  Dan Stein, executive director
of an immigration interest group in Washington, said 400,000 aliens entered the
country illegally each year, adding to the 4 million already here.  "If the
aliens get past the Border Patrol, it's common knowledge they're in for good,"
said Stein, of the Federation for American Immigration Reform.  His group seeks
an end to illegal immigration and a reduction in legal immigration.  Stein said
that the Immigration Department and the Border Patrol might need to triple their
$1 billion annual budget to bring illegal immigration under control. For
example, the immigration agency lacks money to conduct deportation hearings for
many aliens.  An immigration judge comes to St. Louis only four times a year.
Jailing aliens pending deportation costs $50 a day, much more for juveniles,
Moyer said.  Two immigration agents who cover eastern Missouri already have
1,000 cases pending, Moyer added.  Moyer expressed sympathy for Warrenton Mayor
Greg Costello's chagrin at the fact that Immigration Department agents did not
return the aliens to Mexico.  Moyer said, "I agreed with him that the
immigration system is having some great problems in this country.  "It's
overloaded."

LOAD-DATE: October 11, 1993

LANGUAGE: English

                  Copyright 1993 St. Louis Post-Dispatch, Inc.


                              31 of 308 DOCUMENTS

                       St. Louis Post-Dispatch (Missouri)

                  September 5, 1993, SUNDAY, FIVE STAR Edition

MANY IN U.S. CONCERNED OVER IMMIGRATION; CLINTON BILL SEEKS TO SPEED HANDLING OF
ASYLUM SEEKERS

BYLINE: Susan Hegger Of the Post-Dispatch Staff

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 4B

LENGTH: 1034 words

DATELINE: WASHINGTON


IF MANY Americans had their way, the Statue of Liberty would be holding a "no
vacancy" sign instead of a torch. Opinion polls repeatedly show that the public
believes that this country has too many immigrants.  In July, a Newsweek poll
found that 60 percent thought that immigration is a bad thing for the country
today while 76 percent of those questioned in a CNN/USA Today poll said that
immigration should be stopped or reduced until the economy improves.  "The
American people want a sense that there are limits and that immigration policy
isn't set by a poem - a lovely poem but one never voted on," said Dan Stein,
executive director of the Federation for American Immigration Reform, a group
that supports capping legal immigration at 300,000 a year.  Many experts say
that the real problem isn't immigration per se; it's illegal immigration and the
sense that the country has lost control over its the borders. Getting a handle
on illegal immigration, they say, would go a long way to calm the public's
fears.  "The American people want to know that someone is minding the store,"
said Demetrios Papademetriou, a specialist on immigration at the Carnegie
Endowment for International Peace. "They want responsible stewardship." That
sense of control and purpose is what President Bill Clinton tried to convey when
he announced his proposed legislation on illegal immigration this summer. "The
simple fact is that we must not and cannot surrender our borders to those who
wish to exploit our history of compassion and justice. . . .We must say no to
illegal immigration so that we can continue to say yes to legal immigration. . .
.We will make it tougher for illegal aliens to get into our country." But
whether the president's bill, sponsored in the Senate by Edward Kennedy,
D-Mass., and introduced in the House by Ron Mazzoli, D-Ky., will achieve those
aims is open to fierce debate.  Clinton's initiative is, in fact, a relatively
modest proposal that is focused very narrowly - on asylum seekers who arrive at
airports or other ports of entry with false or destroyed documents, an estimated
15,000 people a year.  The bill would expedite the process by which these asylum
cases are decided: An asylum officer on site would review an individual's claim
and determine whether that individual had a "credible fear" of prosecution.  If
the claim were credible, the person would be admitted and allowed to pursue
asylum. If the claim appeared frivolous, the individual would be deported.  The
bill permits a senior asylum officer to review a controversial decision, but it
eliminates the prospect of taking the matter to court.  Even though the bill is
narrowly drawn, it still compromises fundamental safeguards, said Lucas
Guttentag, director of the Immigrants' Rights Project of the American Civil
Liberties Association.  The expedited process "precludes the federal courts from
reviewing any determination," said Guttentag. "The only possible motivation for
such a proposal must be the administration's fear that judicial oversight will
expose bias, discrimination and incompetence." Guttentag is not mollified by the
protection of an administrative review by a senior asylum officer. "It says
you're going to get a better last meal before the guillotine." An aide to Rep.
Jose Serrano, D-N.Y., said Serrano, who is also chair of the Hispanic Caucus,
has similar concerns. He suggested that the real problem is the shortage of
asylum officers to process claims in a timely fashion.  The United States, he
said, has a total of 150 officers. In comparison, Germany, which is also
struggling to deal with a huge influx of asylum seekers, has 3,000.  No
opposition has been raised to the provision of the bill that would impose much
harsher penalties on gangs of smugglers. Smugglers could be prosecuted under the
Racketeer Influenced and Corrupt Organizations act (RICO) and be subject to
asset forfeiture.  Smuggling aliens would be "put on a par with drug smuggling,"
said a congressional source knowledgeable about the bill.  Provisions to expand
the Border Patrol, part of the package when Clinton announced it, may be put on
hold and addressed separately.  For FAIR's Stein, the bill is so narrow that
it's "not even a half a loaf; it's a crumb." He fears that it will "create a
false sense of security" among the American people that the problem of
immigration has been solved.  Stein and others point out that that the bill does
not address the vast majority of asylum seekers, between 80,000 and 100,000 a
year, who are already in the U.S. when they decide to ask for asylum. Nor does
it deal with the backlog of asylum cases - more than 200,000 people awaiting
final word on their status. Nor does it treat the hundreds of thousands who
stream across the border each year.  This bill isn't meant to be the last word
on the issue, said supporters.  Some issues, such as the backlog, can be solved
administratively; they don't need a law, said a congressional aid. Legislation
to deal with the other issues will be introduced later.  While sharing some of
the ACLU's concerns, Michael Fix of the Urban Institute said that overall the
Clinton proposal "is a fairly constrained response to overheated political
feelings." Eventually, this country will have to deal in a serious way with
illegal immigration, said Papademetriou, the immigration expert. He suggested
three steps.  One is sanctions on employers who hire illegal aliens, a law on
the books but rarely enforced. That, he acknowledges, is no easy solution.
Papademetriou and others warn that the evidence is overwhelming that sanctions
tend to increase discrimination against citizens who look or sound foreign.
"This is where we are stuck," he said, and it's time to unravel that knot.
Second is "real bilateral negotiations with Mexico to prevent organized
smuggling." Third is a close examination into the possibility of identification
cards.  "We've never had a face-off on this," he said. "Let's see if we can
manage without militarizing the border." Immigration is an issue that's not
going to go away. Said one source, "the flip side of the coin of free trade and
the movement of goods is the movement of people."

LOAD-DATE: October 11, 1993

LANGUAGE: English

GRAPHIC: PHOTO; Photo by AP - California Gov. Pete Wilson visiting the Border
Patrol checkpoint in San Clemente last month to discuss proposed changes in the
state's policies on illegal immigrants. With him is officer Charles Geer of the
Border Patrol.

                  Copyright 1993 St. Louis Post-Dispatch, Inc.


                              32 of 308 DOCUMENTS

                       St. Louis Post-Dispatch (Missouri)

                 November 27, 1993, SATURDAY, FIVE STAR Edition

O'CONNOR LIFTS COURT BAN PREVENTING DEPORTATIONS

SECTION: WAR PAGE; Pg. 13B

LENGTH: 560 words

DATELINE: WASHINGTON


A SUPREME COURT justice said Friday that the government could deport some
illegal aliens who are seeking legal status in a dispute over a now-expired
federal amnesty program.

With her action, Justice Sandra Day O'Connor temporarily lifted a lower court
order that had protected the aliens from deportation.

O'Connor noted that the high court ruled against another group of aliens in a
similar case last June. The immigration-rights groups that won the lower court
order appeared to lack legal standing, she said, but added that the aliens could
sue on their own behalf.

The 1986 Immigration Reform and Control Act offered legal residency to all
illegal aliens who lived in the United States continuously since Jan. 1, 1982.
The one-year period for applying for amnesty expired on May 4, 1988.

In 1989, a federal judge in Seattle gave some aliens a new chance to seek legal
status under the amnesty program.

The judge ordered the Immigration and Naturalization Service to take a new look
at cases involving aliens who failed to comply with address reporting
requirements, who violated the terms of their visas before Jan. 1, 1982, and who
were incorrectly reinstated to lawful resident status after Jan. 1, 1982.

About 20,000 to 50,000 aliens are involved, their lawyer said, adding that some
were denied legal status under the amnesty program, while others did not apply
because they expected to be rejected.

U.S. District Judge Barbara Rothstein last summer barred immigration officials
from deporting those aliens while their cases were pending.  Rothstein, of
Seattle, ordered the INS to give the aliens work permits and either act on their
cases within 90 days or provide them notice.

The government is appealing her order to the 9th U.S. Circuit Court of Appeals.
O'Connor, who hears emergency matters from the 9th Circuit court, lifted
Rothstein's order until the appeal is decided.

In seeking the order granted Friday, Solicitor General Drew Days III said
Rothstein's order would create "widespread interference with the administration
of the immigration laws."

The Justice Department has asked the high court to set aside the ruling that let
the aliens renew their bids for legal status.

LOAD-DATE: November 28, 1993

LANGUAGE: English

GRAPHIC: PHOTO; Photo Headshot of Justice Sandra Day O'Connor - Acts in illegal
aliens case

                  Copyright 1993 St. Louis Post-Dispatch, Inc.


                              33 of 308 DOCUMENTS

                       St. Louis Post-Dispatch (Missouri)

                 February 12, 1994, SATURDAY, FIVE STAR Edition

FLORIDA GOVERNOR TELLS U.S.: PAY FOR ALIENS

SECTION: WAR PAGE; Pg. 13B

LENGTH: 680 words

DATELINE: MIAMI


ILLEGAL ALIENS are costing Florida more than $ 1 billion a year and forcing the
state to shortchange legal residents, Gov. Lawton Chiles told the federal
Commission on Immigration Reform on Friday.

Chiles, a Democrat, told the commission that "we've had enough" and repeated
demands that the federal government begin picking up the tab.

"Florida has opened its arms to people who seek a better life," Chiles said.
"It's time our government open its eyes to unrealistic immigration policy."

Florida, along with other border states such as Texas and California, has become
increasingly aggressive in pressing the federal government to pick up more of
the costs. Federal law requires states to educate and provide health care for
illegal aliens.

But the federal government has inadequately funded programs that were supposed
to reimburse states for those costs, forcing Floridians to pick up the $ 1
billion difference, Chiles told the nine-member commission. The panel, headed by
former Rep. Barbara Jordan, D-Texas, will recommend changes in immigration law
to Congress.

The U.S. Immigration and Naturalization Service estimates that 345,000 aliens
are living illegally in Florida. Along with the illegal aliens, 520,000
foreign-born residents have legally immigrated to Florida in the last two
decades, and 100,000 Nicaraguans were granted temporary residency.

The governor's remarks, and his recent threat to sue the federal government, are
at the forefront of a rebellion among several states that feel they can no
longer pay the costs of illegal immigrants.

"Federal bills are being charged to Florida's account, and we've had enough,"
Chiles said. "We are depriving our citizens . . . because we are having to take
care of illegal immigrants."

The federal government has provided only 40 Border Patrol agents to guard
Florida's huge coastline and is decommissioning three Coast Guard cutters that
had helped in the task, Chiles said.

Chiles has already ordered the state attorney general to draft a lawsuit against
the federal government to recover the cost of caring for illegal immigrants.

The state also went to court Friday to defend its policy of refusing foster care
to illegal alien children. Florida contends those children are the
responsibility of the Immigration and Naturalization Service, not the state.

Harry Singletary, the state prison director, said the failure to deport illegal
aliens or hold them in federal facilities was forcing Florida to house 2,600
illegal alien criminals at a time when its prisons are so full that dangerous
felons are being released.

LOAD-DATE: February 13, 1994

LANGUAGE: English

GRAPHIC: PHOTO; Photo headshot of Gov. Lawton Chiles. "Unrealistic policy"

                  Copyright 1994 St. Louis Post-Dispatch, Inc.


                              34 of 308 DOCUMENTS

                       St. Louis Post-Dispatch (Missouri)

                 August 17, 1994, WEDNESDAY, FIVE STAR Edition

A RATIONAL IMMIGRATION POLICY ISN'T RACISM

BYLINE: Thomas Sowell Copyright Creators Syndicate Inc.

SECTION: EDITORIAL; Pg. 7B

LENGTH: 603 words

THOMAS SOWELL COLUMN

DATELINE: PALO ALTO, CALIF.


Immigration is joining a long list of subjects on which a rational discussion is
becoming impossible.

We now have about 20 million foreign-born people living in the United States,
and we can't even talk about them, except in psycho-babble and multicultural
pieties.

When California Gov. Pete Wilson raised the issue of illegal immigrants' being
supported by taxpayers at a time of financial stringency, he was set upon by
liberals. Columnist Albert Hunt accused Wilson of sponsoring "draconian"
legislation that would "strip illegal aliens of health and welfare benefits and
deny schooling to their children."

Does someone acquire a right to the taxpayers' money by illegally crossing a
border?

Illegal aliens are seldom punished, which is why there are so many of them.

The issue is whether this country has a moral right to control its borders, to
punish those who violate them - and whether or how these rights should be
exercised.

Some federal judges seem to act as if there is an inherent right for foreigners
to come to the United States, whether they are wanted or not. Moreover, this
newly created right must be available to all peoples around the world equally.
It has long since been dogma that any attempt to sort out those countries whose
migrants fit well into American society from those countries whose immigrants
create more problems is nothing but racism.

If people from Atlantis are twice as likely to go on welfare or 10 times as
likely to have AIDS as people from Shangrila, that doesn't matter to the
intelligentsia.

The magic phrase of judging each person as an individual may be invoked in
debates about immigration policy, but of course nobody does that in real life.

Using a bureaucracy to judge millions of people as individuals is nonsense
carried to its most absurd extreme. People are going to have to be sorted by
some standards. And if people from different countries work out better or worse
in the United States, there is not the slightest reason in logic or morality why
that should not be taken into account.

Once it is clear that the people of this country have every legal and moral
right to decide who joins them, the question then becomes one of figuring out
what is in the best interest of Americans.

Many of the arguments against immigration are false. For example, it is not
simply a question of immigrants taking jobs away from native-born Americans.
There is no fixed number of jobs. When more people join the work force, that
increases both production and consumption, which can mean more jobs.

Some studies indicate that immigrants in general pay more in taxes than they
receive in government services. Whether this is true of all immigrants from all
countries is another question of facts.

Many of those who champion the cause of unlimited immigration not only want to
impose taboos on what can be talked about, but also want to keep the foreigners
foreign after they enter American society. Many times, the immigrants themselves
want to become part of American society, while their spokesmen and cheerleaders
want them to keep on speaking a foreign language and cling to a foreign culture.

Statistics show that immigrants who speak English earn more money than their
fellow-countrymen who speak a foreign language. Many live up to traditional
American values better than native-born Americans.

These and other issues need to be discussed openly, without smear words like
draconian and xenophobia. The immigrants themselves may even discover that they
have more to fear from their supposed friends than from their supposed enemies.

LOAD-DATE: August 18, 1994

LANGUAGE: English

                  Copyright 1994 St. Louis Post-Dispatch, Inc.


                              35 of 308 DOCUMENTS

                       St. Louis Post-Dispatch (Missouri)

              November 9, 1994, WEDNESDAY, FIVE STAR LIFT Edition

IMMIGRATION LAW LEADING; HIGH COURT CHALLENGE LIKELY

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 7C

LENGTH: 727 words

DATELINE: LOS ANGELES


Victory was projected late Tuesday for California's anti-illegal immigrant
Proposition 187 by three television channels after voter returns of 30 percent
showed the measure winning by a 2-to-1 ratio.

With 7,626 of 25,169 precincts reporting, the measure was ahead with 1,468,992
votes, or 63 percent, to 865,456 no votes, or 37 percent.

The vote was considered so potentially explosive that police throughout Southern
California mounted a show of force to head off possible civil unrest if it was
approved. But the streets remained calm Tuesday night and protests against the
measure remained confined largely to peaceful rallies organized by Proposition
187 opponents.

Backers claimed the measure, which aimed to end public schooling, public health
care and other tax-financed services for illegal aliens, will "send a message"
to Washington, even if some of its components are later found unconstitutional.
"It's time we put some of these questions back before the courts," said
Republican Gov. Pete Wilson, one of the measure's chief backers.

And opponents immediately promised they would take the measure to court.

"We are going to go to court, and we will defeat it there," declared Los Angeles
County Supervisor Gloria Molina.

Even the proposition's writers recognized that its eventual fate will be
determined by the Supreme Court.

"We expect it will take two years to get that far," said initiative co-author
Harold Ezell, former Western regional commissioner of the Immigration and
Naturalization Service. "This will not affect the way we register students in
our schools next Monday. It will take longer."

That also was the position of newly elected state Schools Superintendent Delaine
Eastin, a Democratic legislator. "I believe (Proposition) 187 violates the
Constitution, and I have taken an oath to protect and defend the Constitution,"
she said.

Elsewhere, voters unleashed their foul mood Tuesday, cracking down on crime and
long-term politicians.

Voters in Maine, Nebraska, Nevada and the District of Columbia approved
congressional term limits, Nebraskans for the second time in two years. Term
limits, the preferred remedy for the '90s voter sick of longtime incumbents,
were on ballots in Alaska, Colorado, Idaho, Maine, Massachusetts, Nebraska,
Nevada, Utah, the District of Columbia and several cities and counties.

Nebraskans' enthusiasm for term limits matched their ardor for Republican Rep.
Doug Bereuter. He won a ninth term despite the ballot measure's limit of three
consecutive terms for future members of Congress.

Nebraskans had to tackle the issue for a second time because the required number
of petition signatures was miscalculated when term limits were approved in 1992.

Voters in the District of Columbia approved term limits for the mayor, city
council and school board.

By a 4-to-1 landslide, Georgia voters approved the nation's toughest sentencing
law, mandating life in prison for a second violent felony. California voters
easily passed a tough prison-sentencing measure that incorporates a
three-strikes-and-you're-out policy into the state constitution.

Floridians turned down a proposal to allow up to 47 casinos. The rejection was
almost 2-to-1 despite the $ 16.7 million campaign by casino proponents, the most
expensive campaign in state history.

Rhode Island voters said no to proposals to permit casinos in four cities and
towns, including the state capital, Providence, and appeared close to rejecting
a proposal for a fifth in West Greenwich, which the Narragansett Indians hoped
to build. TERM LIMITS

Here are the latest, unofficial returns for ballot measures in several states
that would restrict politicians' reelection bids.

ALASKA

0 pct. Yes  0 - 0 pct. No   0 - 0 pct. COLORADO

73 pct. Yes  427 919 - 52 pct. No   401 351 - 48 pct. DISTRICT OF COLUMBIA

100 pct. x-Yes  82 090 - 62 pct. No     51 079 - 38 pct.

IDAHO

67 pct. x-Yes  138 522 - 57 pct. No     103 405 - 43 pct.

MAINE

73 pct. x-Yes  208 842 - 63 pct. No     123 109 - 37 pct.

MASSACHUSETTS

80 pct. Yes  824 795 - 52 pct. No   775 427 - 48 pct.

NEBRASKA

92 pct. x-Yes  326 745 - 67 pct. No     158 019 - 33 pct.

NEVADA

81 pct. x-Yes  201 775 - 71 pct. No      84 416 - 29 pct.

UTAH

59 pct. Yes    94 033 - 36 pct. x-No  170 432 - 64 pct.

LOAD-DATE: November 10, 1994

LANGUAGE: English

GRAPHIC: GRAPHIC; Graphic - Term Limits - follows story.

                  Copyright 1994 St. Louis Post-Dispatch, Inc.


                              36 of 308 DOCUMENTS

                       St. Louis Post-Dispatch (Missouri)

                  November 25, 1994, Friday, FIVE STAR Edition

VOTERS PUNISH IMMIGRANT CHILDREN

BYLINE: William Safire Copyright New York Times News Service

SECTION: EDITORIAL; Pg. 7B

LENGTH: 705 words

WILLIAM SAFIRE COLUMN

DATELINE: WASHINGTON


The victory in California of the movement to deny schooling and medical services
to illegal immigrants who are not actually bleeding to death is the first
skirmish in the war on unwed welfare mothers.

That's because both Proposition 187 (punishing some 300,000 alien schoolchildren
for the sins of their fathers) and the Gingrich approach to welfare reform
(withholding support when unemployed single mothers have additional children)
are based on this philosophy: The most cost-effective way to change behavior is
to make life unbearable under present behavior.

During the recent resurgence of righteousness, Gov. Pete Wilson of California
was described in this space as "the best candidate with the worst issue" and
Proposition 187, which he strongly supported, was denounced as a "nativist
abomination."

I came to admire him when, as a senator, he exposed the abuse of the franking
privilege by incumbents. Early this year I reported Richard Nixon's prediction
that a California comeback victory would make Wilson the front-runner for the
'96 Republican nomination - and if running-mated with Gov. Christy Whitman of
New Jersey, the ticket would win. Visiting Washington last week, Wilson invited
me over to screw my head back on properly.

About the nativism charge: He is eager it be understood that he is not
anti-immigrant, only anti-illegal immigrant. "One in four Californians are legal
immigrants," he says, "and don't need lectures on the contributions of legal
immigrants. In fact, they are the most vociferous critics of illegal
immigration. . . . The issue is the rule of law."

OK, with a sizable portion of voting Latinos in favor of curbing their illegal
competitors, let's grant that most of the proposition's supporters are neither
nativist nor racist. Support from those who resent all immigrants, legal and
not, surely came Wilson's way, but it does not mean he shares their prejudices.

About the privacy-intrusion charge, turning teachers into immigration agents:
"Teachers don't enroll students," Wilson says, implying it is only the
administrators' job and not the teachers' job. He says that school districts
everywhere ask for proof of residence, and adds that all applicants to federal
jobs must produce verifiable citizenship documents. (He's against national ID
cards.)

Maybe he can bolster that defense of 187 in court with regulations against
discrimination or intrusion in its enforcement. But no administrative
amelioration is likely to alter the requirement that schools have reverse truant
officers assigned to root out those sneaky little offspring of illegals trying
to cop a freebie education (to which the Supreme Court has ruled they are
entitled, and with conservative justices, stare decisis ain't dead yet.)

What's Wilson's purpose in all this? To get budget-cutting Washington to
reimburse California $ 2.5 billion a year for state services to the illegals? To
get the feds to stem the tide of invaders, many of whom sashay in as tourists?

Yes to both, but more: "If it's clear to you that you cannot be employed, and
that you and your family are ineligible for services, you will self-deport."

I take the import of that to be: Make 'em so miserable that they leave the
country. To which many law-abiding Americans, especially tax-burdened
Californians, would say: Hooray!

Ebenezer Scrooge is my hero, too, but that neatly theoretical "economic
disincentive" won't disincent - because being miserable here doesn't compare
with the misery they ran away from.

Do we really want to drive most illegal families deeper underground, many to
lives of crime? Would we rather have 300,000 children on the streets, learning
costly delinquency - or safely in school, becoming potential citizens and
taxpayers?

Wilson wants an immigration plank in the Republican platform. Fine; it should
include federal reimbursement, amnesty, border control - but none of this
creation of an uneducated, unmedicated underground.

After our talk, I am prepared to withdraw the charge that Proposition 187 is
driven primarily by nativism. But in terms of practicality and of the American
spirit, a government policy of making any child's life miserable is still an
abomination.

LOAD-DATE: September 9, 1995

LANGUAGE: English

                  Copyright 1994 St. Louis Post-Dispatch, Inc.


                              37 of 308 DOCUMENTS

                       St. Louis Post-Dispatch (Missouri)

                March 21, 1996, Thursday, FIVE STAR LIFT Edition

HOUSE ADVANCES BILL TOUGH ON 'ILLEGALS'

SECTION: WAR PAGE; Pg. 5B

LENGTH: 817 words

DATELINE: WASHINGTON


DEBATING A CONTROVERSIAL immigration bill, the House voted Wednesday to allow
states to deny schooling for children of illegal aliens and to block federal
welfare benefits for American-born children of illegal aliens.

The votes reflected wide concern in states such as California over the burden to
state and federal governments of providing benefits to "illegals."

The House also supported establishment of a program under which employers will
be able to verify with a governmment data base whether job -seekers can legally
work in the United States.

The pilot program had aroused widespread opposition among both conservatives and
civil libertarians as the start of a "big brother" national identity system.

In heated debate, members argued that children should not be made to suffer for
the fact that their parents entered the country illegally.

But in a rare address to the House, Speaker Newt Gingrich argued forcefully for
an amendment by Elton Gallegly, R-Calif., to allow states to deny children of
illegal aliens the right to attend public schools.

Gingrich said that requiring states to provide their schooling was a federal
"unfunded mandate" - an order from Washington that the federal government does
not pay for.

Citing California's Proposition 187 clamping down on benefits for illegal
aliens, Gingrich said: "I think it's wrong for us to be the welfare capital of
the world.

"Come to America for opportunity. Do not come to America to live off the
law-abiding American taxpayer."

Rep. Xavier Becerra, D-Calif., deplored "going after the kids" and Rep. Anthony
Beilenson, D-Calif., also said the proposal was unwise and inhumane.

Rep. John Bryant, D-Texas, accused Gingrich of seeking to take political
advantage of the bipartisan bill by pushing through an amendment that could
derail it.

The amendment was approved by a 257-163 vote.

The House defeated by 269-151 an amendment by Rep. Nydia Velasquez, D-N.Y., to
remove a provision barring undocumented alien parents from applying for welfare,
including food stamps and Medicaid, for their American citizen children for the
first seven years.

Velasquez said the bill "punishes innocent children," but Gallegly said the
government should not reward persons in the country illegally.

The attempt by Rep. Steve Chabot, R-Ohio, to eliminate the employment
verification plan was defeated 260-159. It would set up a pilot program in five
of the seven states with the highest number of illegal immigrants.

The voluntary program, under which an employer would call a toll-free number to
verify a job-seeker's right to work, united some liberals and conservatives in
opposition.

Chabot charged that the goal was a national mandatory system under which the
federal government "would assert the right to sign off on the employment of
every citizen."

The bill's main architect, Rep. Lamar Smith, R-Texas, denied any intent to
establish a national identity system and said the plan was aimed at cutting back
on aliens getting jobs by means of false documents.

Debate on the bill will continue today. The Senate has its own bill currently in
committee.

Smith says immigration reform is needed to correct a system in which 80 percent
of all immigrants are admitted without regard to skills or education, 20 percent
of federal prisoners are illegal aliens, half the country's estimated 4 million
illegal immigrants obtain jobs and benefits through fake documents and
applications by immigrants for Supplemental Security Income have increased 580
percent since 1982.

According to Smith, his bill would cut illegal immigration in half in five years
by doubling the number of Border Patrol agents and making it more difficult for
illegal aliens to get jobs and government benefits.

At the same time, he said, the bill would continue "generous levels of legal
immigration" at an average of 700,000 a year for the first five years, compared
to about 775,000 in 1995. The bill would limit immigration by the "extended
families" of naturalized U.S. citizens in order to increase admissions of
spouses and minor children of legal permanent residents, Smith said.

Critics say legal immigration would drop by at least 30 percent from current
levels after five years under Smith's bill and that many U.S. citizens would be
unfairly prevented from bringing in their parents, adult children and siblings.

Human-rights advocates oppose the bill's provisions to cut refugee admissions in
half from the current level of 100,000 a year and to tighten the rules for
people who enter the United States illegally and then seek political asylum. The
latter could be sent back to their countries immediately if they failed to pass
an on-the-spot interview by an asylum officer, while asylum seekers who are
already in the United States would have 30 days from their date of entry in most
cases to file an application.

LOAD-DATE: March 21, 1996

LANGUAGE: English

                  Copyright 1996 St. Louis Post-Dispatch, Inc.


                              38 of 308 DOCUMENTS

                       St. Louis Post-Dispatch (Missouri)

                 November 19, 1994, Saturday, FIVE STAR Edition

LETTERS FROM THE PEOPLE

SECTION: EDITORIAL; Pg. 15B

LENGTH: 346 words


Health Care For Illegal Aliens?

The California electorate's overwhelming embrace of a law that bars medical and
other tax-supported services to illegal aliens reveals a truly disheartening
lack of humanity.

Nearly 10 years ago, I considered pursuing a joint degree program in law and
public health at the University of California. My goal was to improve the
delivery of health care to undocumented workers and their families.

Then (and now) most illegal immigrants worked in low-paying, back-breaking,
unskilled jobs disdained by legal residents. Despite frequent work injuries and
illness from living in crowded conditions, many failed to seek medical care
because they feared deportation.

For the most part, they were and still are hard-working, taxpaying members of
society. Yet, in a misguided effort to vent anger about California's failing
economy, voters have now chosen to penalize these immigrants. This mean-spirited
vote reveals a profound loss of what once made America great: compassion for the
tired, the poor, the huddled masses yearning to breathe free. Rebecca S. Stith
Clayton

The Post-Dispatch's editorial about California's Proposition 187 is typical of
its bleeding-heart liberal stance. As far as the paper is concerned, it does not
matter that the people whom 187 focuses on are in violation of the law. Why give
law breakers better health coverage than American citizens who have no such
coverage because they cannot afford it or their employer does not provide it?

I am such an American. I'm a Vietnam veteran. I put in my time for this country,
yet I have no health insurance of any type. I can't afford it, though I have a
steady job. My employer opts not to offer it.

But the Post-Dispatch and other bleeding hearts want tax dollars to continue to
be taken out of my already small paycheck so some law-breaking family in
California can have health care. Sorry, I do not share your pity. Let the
illegals go through the proper channels just like millions of immigrants have
done to become Americans. Paul D. Peniston St. Ann

LOAD-DATE: December 30, 1994

LANGUAGE: English

TYPE: LETTERS

                  Copyright 1994 St. Louis Post-Dispatch, Inc.


                              39 of 308 DOCUMENTS

                       St. Louis Post-Dispatch (Missouri)

                October 2, 1995, Monday, FIVE STAR LIFT Edition

THE CLOSING GOLDEN DOOR

SECTION: EDITORIAL; Pg. 6B

LENGTH: 469 words


Immigration changes seem certain to receive approval in Congress and from
President Bill Clinton, but final details of the program - and, more
importantly, its lasting effects - are far less apparent. The problem of illegal
immigration, along with the growing concern over such related issues as
multicultural education and traditions, at times have turned the nation's
traditional melting pot into a boiling cauldron of discontent. Congress must
make sure it acts with deliberation and not just under growing pressure that it
do something.

One of the most difficult issues in the debate is the question of a computerized
identification registry. Such a listing inevitably carries with it the specter
of a national identification card, the sort of Big Brother, overwhelming federal
presence that the Republican revolution has been dead set against. True, Social
Security numbers have become a de facto national identification device, and
access to them can provide someone with a wealth of information that most people
consider confidential. While instituting a new system might help prevent
employers from giving jobs to workers who entered the country illegally - at
least until the black market of false papers catches up to the demand - its
supporters must ask whether it is worth the cost.

Such cost would be more than financial, though opponents estimate that price at
between $ 3 billion and $ 6 billion a year. It would also be the psychological
burden of having to carry such identification, and the uneasiness at knowing
that each American's computerized dossier would take on growing importance.
Anyone who has done battle over an improper monthly bill or a mistaken entry in
a credit report knows how difficult it is to wipe out errors once they are
established in a computer file.

Other provisions of the impending immigration changes are equally problematic.
Sharply restricting the number of people allowed to enter the United States each
year could cause shortages of skilled workers in key industries such as
computers. Curtailing the chances for legal residents to bring their relatives
over from abroad undermines the importance of family ties, another popular
political theme. Cutting down on the opportunities for people to seek political
asylum goes against the proud traditions of freedom on which this country's
history is based.

Solutions that would address such problems and still provide some response to
the clamor for immigration reform won't be easy to devise. Increased attention
to blocking illegal immigration might ease the frustration that fueled the drive
for limits on immigration overall. But sooner or later, the wider questions must
be answered. Until a broader consensus can be worked out, drastic changes that
could hurt more than they help should wait.

LOAD-DATE: October 2, 1995

LANGUAGE: English

TYPE: EDITORIAL

                  Copyright 1995 St. Louis Post-Dispatch, Inc.


                              40 of 308 DOCUMENTS

                       St. Louis Post-Dispatch (Missouri)

              December 27, 1995, Wednesday, FIVE STAR LIFT Edition

LATIN AMERICA BREAKS IMMIGRATION RING; OPERATION GOT THOUSANDS INTO U.S.
ILLEGALLY

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 4A

LENGTH: 511 words

DATELINE: WASHINGTON


Authorities in Latin America have broken up an illegal immigration operation
that funneled thousands of Asians and Latin Americans to the United States
through Central America.

U.S. officials said the break in the case came with the arrest this month of
Gloria Canales, a 40-year-old Costa Rican woman originally from Peru and head of
a smuggling ring.

She is awaiting trial in Honduras on charges of smuggling, bribery,
falsification of documents and homicide. She faces up to 30 years in prison if
convicted.

According to U.S. officials familiar with the case, Canales' organization has
been blamed for the deaths of at least 10 people during the sometimes hazardous
journey through Central America to the U.S.-Mexican border.  The case
illustrates how the smuggling of people into the United States has grown from
small-scale forays across the U.S.-Mexican border by guides known as "coyotes"
into a multimillion-dollar industry spanning several countries.

Among those smuggled by Canales' organization have been thousands of Chinese and
Indians who first made their way to Latin America, U.S. officials said. They
said Canales is believed to have smuggled at least 10,000 people a year,
charging up to $ 6,000 a head for the Indians and Chinese. Most of those
smuggled came from Latin American countries, the officials said.

Honduras, which U.S. investigators said was formerly used by Canales as a
smuggling way station, also has been wracked by bribery and corruption scandals
related to the smuggling. Two senior immigration officials and a former foreign
minister have been arrested on charges of involvement in the trafficking.

Honduras is the only Central American country in which smuggling of humans is a
crime. For that reason, U.S. officials helped persuade Ecuador to arrest Canales
and deport her to Honduras.

Canales' arrest exposed a web of corruption stretching across the entire region,
U.S. officials said. In a raid last weekend on a mansion she owns in Costa Rica,
the sources said, Costa Rican authorities found documents and computer records
implicating senior officials of various governments, including military and
immigration officers.

The sources said the records included the names of contacts in the United
States, although it was not yet known whether any U.S. officials were on
Canales' payroll.

Canales' people-smuggling network included "coyotes," airline officials and
hotel owners from Peru to Mexico, as well as contacts in India and China,
investigators said. The Indians and Chinese often would fly to Quito, Ecuador,
or the port city of Guayaquil, where Canales would put them up in hotels before
sending them north, the sources said.

But sometimes the accommodations were not up to the standards that the smuggled
people had been led to expect. In one incident last summer, four Chinese showed
up at the U.S. Embassy in Quito to complain about their treatment, saying they
had paid good money to Canales to be taken to the United States but were being
lodged in a cheap hotel with bad food.

LOAD-DATE: December 27, 1995

LANGUAGE: English

                  Copyright 1995 St. Louis Post-Dispatch, Inc.


                              41 of 308 DOCUMENTS

                       St. Louis Post-Dispatch (Missouri)

                   June 13, 1993, SUNDAY, THREE STAR Edition

PRESIDENT GETS PLAN TO FIGHT ALIEN SMUGGLING

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 12A

LENGTH: 291 words

DATELINE: WASHINGTON


A plan to deal with the smuggling of Chinese immigrants by air and sea has been
presented to President Bill Clinton, and a decision on it is expected soon,
State Department sources say.  The plan, developed by the National Security
Council, involves numerous government agencies and is the culmination of several
months of intensive review by officials. The issue was discussed Thursday by
Clinton and his advisers at a regular meeting of his Domestic Policy Council,
said Dee Dee Myers, the White House press secretary. The group includes Vice
President Al Gore, Secretary of Health and Human Services Donna E. Shalala and
Attorney General Janet Reno.  Sources said the plan does not go into the
particulars on financing and implementation but instead outlines a broad
strategy for stopping the dozens of boats carrying illegal immigrants from
province of Fujian in China.  Although the plan deals with illegal immigration
in general, U.S. officials said the proposals are tailored to address the
Chinese boat problem.  Officials refused to disclose details of the plan,
pending a final review by the president. But it is thought to include elements
such as intercepting ships on the high seas, detention of illegal immigrants,
heightened cooperation with foreign governments and revisions in U.S. political
asylum policies. It also is said to focus on means to stop illegal entry through
airports.  Well before the latest dumping of Chinese at San Francisco and New
York, the National Security Council had convened an interagency task force to
review all aspects of illegal immigration. But intense media exposure and
congressional interest has forced the administration to act more quickly than
they had intended, sources said.

LOAD-DATE: October 7, 1993

LANGUAGE: English

                  Copyright 1993 St. Louis Post-Dispatch, Inc.


                              42 of 308 DOCUMENTS

                       St. Louis Post-Dispatch (Missouri)

                  July 28, 1993, WEDNESDAY, THREE STAR Edition

ILLEGAL ALIENS TARGETED; CLINTON WANTS LAWS, MONEY TO STEM FLOW

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 1A

LENGTH: 716 words

DATELINE: WASHINGTON


President Bill Clinton asked Congress for more money and new legal tools Tuesday
to crack down on illegal immigration and the crime organizations and terrorists
who exploit weaknesses in U.S. defenses against illegal aliens.  Prompted by
hundreds of Chinese boat people and an immigrant sheik linked to suspects in the
World Trade Center bombing, Clinton said, "We cannot tolerate those who traffic
in human cargo, nor can we allow our people to be endangered by those who would
enter our country to terrorize Americans." Worked out with representatives of
both parties, Clinton's plan got bipartisan support from members of Congress who
attended the White House announcement.  The plan would not shut the nation's
borders and would continue welcoming legal immigrants and legitimate refugees
while keeping out those with no legal right to be here.  "To treat terrorists
and smugglers as immigrants dishonors the tradition of the immigrants who have
made our nation great, and it unfairly taints the millions of immigrants who
live here honorably and are a vital part of every segment of our society," he
said.  The plan, spearheaded by Vice President Al Gore, has two elements: New
legislation would allow expedited exclusion of undocumented aliens "who do not
have credible claims for political asylum," the use of racketeering laws against
gangs that organize illegal immigration by sea or by land, and increased
penalties for alien smuggling.  $172.5 million more for next year's proposed
budget to add 600 Border Patrol agents, enhance the State Department's "lookout"
system that lists foreign criminals and suspected terrorists who should be kept
out, expand pre-inspection at foreign airports of U.S.-bound passengers and hire
more officers to handle the expedited exclusion hearings. The White House said
$87 million of the additional cost would be defrayed by an increase in
immigration inspection and other fees and a surcharge on machine-readable visa
applications. There was no mention of where the rest of the money would come
from.  Administration officials had no estimate of total spending on
immigration.  The Immigration and Naturalization Service has a $1.6 billion
budget, but the State and Treasury departments and the federal courts also spend
money on immigration.  The expedited exclusions would affect asylum claims by
30,000 people caught each year at entry points with fraudulent or no documents,
said the officials, who spoke on condition of anonymity. It would not affect the
estimated 300,000 who succeed in entering illegally or the 80,000 to 90,000 who
request asylum without having been caught, they said.  Expedited exclusions
would be designed to take no more than five days instead of the 18 months common
now, the officials said. The applicant would be detained during the process.
The Justice Department also is developing a plan to reduce the backlog of
275,000 asylum claims and expand deportation proceedings in prison for alien
felons so they can be deported when released.  "It's a good bill, absolutely,"
Sen. Alfonse M. D'Amato, R-N.Y., told Clinton after the announcement. D'Amato
had severely criticized the government for allowing Sheik Omar Abdel-Rahman to
remain free while appealing a denial of political asylum even though some of his
followers were arrested in the World Trade Center bombing and a purported
terrorist plot to bomb other New York sites. Abdel-Rahman, who lost his appeal,
is now in custody.  Both of California's Democratic senators, Dianne Feinstein
and Barbara Boxer, also applauded it. They have been pressing for action against
illegal immigrants whose care is costing their state millions.  Boxer said
finding the extra $172.5 million should not be a problem. "If we can't get our
arms around this immigration problem, we can't afford anything else," Boxer said
in an interview. "In the long run, this will be cost-effective," given that
one-quarter of federal prison inmates are illegal aliens.  Clinton's budget
already calls for $10 million for 163 new immigration inspectors at border
points.  It also called for $11 million to pay for 254 positions, including 168
detention and deportation officers, to staff the expansion of the two processing
centers and increase staff at a number of other centers.

LOAD-DATE: October 11, 1993

LANGUAGE: English

                  Copyright 1993 St. Louis Post-Dispatch, Inc.


                              43 of 308 DOCUMENTS

                       St. Louis Post-Dispatch (Missouri)

                  July 28, 1993, WEDNESDAY, FIVE STAR Edition

CLINTON ASKS CONGRESS TO FUND IMMIGRATION CRACKDOWN; CLINTON WANTS LAWS, MONEY
TO STEM FLOW

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 4A

LENGTH: 717 words

DATELINE: WASHINGTON


President Bill Clinton asked Congress for more money and new legal tools Tuesday
to crack down on illegal immigration and the crime organizations and terrorists
who exploit weaknesses in U.S. defenses against illegal aliens.  Prompted by
hundreds of Chinese boat people and an immigrant sheik linked to suspects in the
World Trade Center bombing, Clinton said, "We cannot tolerate those who traffic
in human cargo, nor can we allow our people to be endangered by those who would
enter our country to terrorize Americans." Worked out with representatives of
both parties, Clinton's plan got bipartisan support from members of Congress who
attended the White House announcement.  The plan would not shut the nation's
borders and would continue welcoming legal immigrants and legitimate refugees
while keeping out those with no legal right to be here.  "To treat terrorists
and smugglers as immigrants dishonors the tradition of the immigrants who have
made our nation great, and it unfairly taints the millions of immigrants who
live here honorably and are a vital part of every segment of our society," he
said.  The plan, spearheaded by Vice President Al Gore, has two elements: New
legislation would allow expedited exclusion of undocumented aliens "who do not
have credible claims for political asylum," the use of racketeering laws against
gangs that organize illegal immigration by sea or by land, and increased
penalties for alien smuggling.  $172.5 million more for next year's proposed
budget to add 600 Border Patrol agents, enhance the State Department's "lookout"
system that lists foreign criminals and suspected terrorists who should be kept
out, expand pre-inspection at foreign airports of U.S.-bound passengers and hire
more officers to handle the expedited exclusion hearings. The White House said
$87 million of the additional cost would be defrayed by an increase in
immigration inspection and other fees and a surcharge on machine-readable visa
applications. There was no mention of where the rest of the money would come
from.  Administration officials had no estimate of total spending on
immigration.  The Immigration and Naturalization Service has a $1.6 billion
budget, but the State and Treasury departments and the federal courts also spend
money on immigration.  The expedited exclusions would affect asylum claims by
30,000 people caught each year at entry points with fraudulent or no documents,
said the officials, who spoke on condition of anonymity. It would not affect the
estimated 300,000 who succeed in entering illegally or the 80,000 to 90,000 who
request asylum without having been caught, they said.  Expedited exclusions
would be designed to take no more than five days instead of the 18 months common
now, the officials said. The applicant would be detained during the process.
The Justice Department also is developing a plan to reduce the backlog of
275,000 asylum claims and expand deportation proceedings in prison for alien
felons so they can be deported when released.  "It's a good bill, absolutely,"
Sen. Alfonse M. D'Amato, R-N.Y., told Clinton after the announcement. D'Amato
had severely criticized the government for allowing Sheik Omar Abdel-Rahman to
remain free while appealing a denial of political asylum even though some of his
followers were arrested in the World Trade Center bombing and a purported
terrorist plot to bomb other New York sites. Abdel-Rahman, who lost his appeal,
is now in custody.  Both of California's Democratic senators, Dianne Feinstein
and Barbara Boxer, also applauded the bill. They have been pressing for action
against illegal immigrants whose care is costing their state millions.  Boxer
said finding the extra $172.5 million should not be a problem. "If we can't get
our arms around this immigration problem, we can't afford anything else," Boxer
said in an interview. "In the long run, this will be cost-effective," given that
one-quarter of federal prison inmates are illegal aliens.  Clinton's budget
already calls for $10 million for 163 new immigration inspectors at border
points.  It also called for $11 million to pay for 254 positions, including 168
detention and deportation officers, to staff the expansion of the two processing
centers and increase staff at a number of other centers.

LOAD-DATE: October 11, 1993

LANGUAGE: English

                  Copyright 1993 St. Louis Post-Dispatch, Inc.


                              44 of 308 DOCUMENTS

                       St. Louis Post-Dispatch (Missouri)

               October 14, 1995, Saturday, FIVE STAR LIFT Edition

6 JAILERS CHARGED IN TORTURE OF ALIENS; ILLEGAL IMMIGRANTS BEATEN AFTER PROTEST

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 4A

LENGTH: 279 words

DATELINE: ELIZABETH, N.J.


Six jailers are charged in the beating and torture of 25 illegal immigrants who
were placed in their custody in June after a riot to protest conditions at
another detention center.

Two dozen handcuffed illegal immigrants arriving at the Union County Jail were
forced to run a gantlet of two dozen officers who punched and kicked them,
acting prosecutor Edward M. Neafsey said Thursday. He said the guards made the
aliens kneel naked on the floor and say "America is No. 1."

The immigrants were then strip-searched and some had their faces shoved into
toilet bowls, he said. One inmate's pubic hair was pulled out with pliers;
another's collarbone was broken, he said.

Six officers were charged with official misconduct. All were released on $
50,000 or $ 75,000 bail.

The charges carry a sentence of five to 10 years in prison, which could be
doubled if a bias motive is proved, Neafsey said.

Union County Manager Ann Baran said she would move to suspend the officers.

Anthony Pope, attorney for two of the officers, said the prosecutors' case "is
not as strong as they say it is. We're very confident of vindication."

Authorities said they had interviewed 24 of the 25 immigrants detained in the
jail for three days after riots June 18 at Esmor Detention Center. They all told
similar stories, although several spoke different languages.

More than 300 illegal aliens housed at Esmor while their requests for asylum
were being processed overpowered guards and vandalized the center to protest
what they called abusive conditions. The center, which was run by a private
company under a contract with the government, was closed after the disturbance.

LOAD-DATE: October 14, 1995

LANGUAGE: English

                  Copyright 1995 St. Louis Post-Dispatch, Inc.


                              45 of 308 DOCUMENTS

                       St. Louis Post-Dispatch (Missouri)

                  May 5, 1995, Friday, FIVE STAR LIFT Edition

HOT ISSUE BURNS WILSON ; CALIFORNIA GOVERNOR HIRED ILLEGAL ALIEN, FAILETO PAY
TAX

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 8A

LENGTH: 381 words

DATELINE: WASHINGTON


When hiring an illegal alien became an issue in someone else's campaign last
year, California Gov. Pete Wilson said the law required that the offender
"suffer a penalty."

Now, the man who helped make illegal immigration a national issue has to wonder
whether his own record in that area will damage his presidential prospects.

Wilson acknowledged Wednesday that in 1978, when he was San Diego mayor, he
employed an undocumented Mexican immigrant as a housekeeper and did not pay
required Social Security taxes. Wilson said he did not know at the time that the
woman was in the United States illegally or that proper taxes were not being
paid; Betty Hosie, who was then Wilson's wife, backs him up, saying she was
responsible for household affairs.

Wilson's advisers said Thursday that it was no big deal, that no laws were
broken. It was not a violation of federal law back then to hire an illegal
immigrant, and it would have been a violation of California law only if Wilson
knew of the woman's status.

Still, as Sen. Barbara Boxer, D-Calif., said, "There is a certain irony here."
Wilson's aides could not dispute that but had to hope that Boxer was wrong in
her conclusion that "it won't be lost on the people of the country."

Wilson has benefited from immigration politics, complaining often about illegal
immigrants and the failure of the federal government to pay the associated
costs.

California's Proposition 187 against illegal immigration was the centerpiece of
his successful re-election campaign, and Wilson had promised to raise the issue
of illegal immigration again in his bid for the GOP presidential nomination.

The camps of two of Wilson's rivals for the nomination left little doubt
Thursday that they would make an issue of the episode. "Pete Wilson has made a
career out of saying one thing and doing another," said Mark Merritt, a
spokesman for former Tennessee Gov. Lamar Alexander.

Alex Castellanos, a strategist for Sen. Phil Gramm, R-Texas, said, "Live by
illegal aliens, die by illegal aliens."

Craig Fuller, Wilson's campaign chairman, chalked up the attacks to politics and
said, "We believe that it will have no lasting effect on our campaign's
success."

But some GOP officials said the disclosure had to hurt Wilson's chances.

LOAD-DATE: May 6, 1995

LANGUAGE: English

GRAPHIC: PHOTO; Photo Headshot - Gov. Pete Wilson

                  Copyright 1995 St. Louis Post-Dispatch, Inc.


                              46 of 308 DOCUMENTS

                       St. Louis Post-Dispatch (Missouri)

                  October 8, 1995, Sunday, THREE STAR Edition

INS: 4,000 ILLEGAL WORKERS ARRESTED

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 13C

LENGTH: 387 words

DATELINE: WASHINGTON


More than 4,000 illegal workers were arrested this summer in the Immigration and
Naturalization Service's largest enforcement operation in the South in more than
a decade, the agency said last week.

Of the 4,044 immigrants found working illegally in Alabama, Arkansas, Florida,
Georgia, Mississippi and Tennessee, more than 3,400 have already been sent back
to their native countries, said INS Commissioner Doris Meissner.

The vast majority of the illegal immigrants - more than 3,500 - were Mexican,
with the remainder coming from 44 countries throughout Asia, the Caribbean,
Latin America, Eastern Europe, Africa and the Middle East.

More than 300 businesses were surveyed and inspected during Operation SouthPAW
(Protecting America's Workers), which was conducted June 5-29 and Sept. 6-23
using more than 100 officials of the INS, Department of Labor and state and
local law enforcement agencies, Meissner said.

"We do believe there are more illegal workers in this region than we have
apprehended," Meissner said, declining to give an estimate. "We will be
continuing this operation as long as we continue to get good leads."

To date, 10 employers in Alabama and Georgia have been cited and fined up to $
15,000 for violating immigration hiring laws.

The INS also has launched more than 20 criminal prosecutions and investigations
on charges including re-entry after deportation, distribution of counterfeit
documents and alien smuggling, Meissner said.

Follow-up surveys and inspections to gauge compliance with the laws showed that
more than 2,400 jobs held by undocumented immigrants before Operation SouthPAW
have been filled by U.S. citizens and legal resident aliens, she said.

"These jobs are not low-paying or menial jobs," said Charles Masten, the
Department of Labor's inspector general. "These are jobs that would be
attractive to most Americans."

Wages paid the illegal workers ranged from less than $ 2 per hour to $ 15 per
hour in the manufacturing, construction, food processing, assembly, agriculture
and services industries, Meissner said. The average hourly wage was $ 7.

Meissner said she was counting on Congress to approve an additional $ 70 million
for INS and increase its staff by 600 in the fiscal year that began Oct. 1 o
beef up its workplace enforcement efforts.

LOAD-DATE: October 8, 1995

LANGUAGE: English

GRAPHIC: Photo by AP - Fish Out Of Water - A man who caught a good-sized fish on
a main road flooded by the Rio Masachapa in Masachapa, Nicaragua, draws a crowd
on Friday. Heavy rain throughout Nicaragua have left thousands homeless, and
ruined thousands of acres of corn, sesame and sorghum.

                  Copyright 1995 St. Louis Post-Dispatch, Inc.


                              47 of 308 DOCUMENTS

                       St. Louis Post-Dispatch (Missouri)

              February 14, 1996, Wednesday, FIVE STAR LIFT Edition

CLINTON SIGNS ORDER IMPOSING PENALTIES FOR HIRING ILLEGAL ALIENS

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 3A

LENGTH: 353 words

DATELINE: WASHINGTON


President Bill Clinton signed an executive order Tuesday to prohibit companies
that knowingly hired illegal aliens from receiving federal contracts.

The executive order, part of a "comprehensive strategy" to combat illegal
immigration, is aimed at reducing "the job magnet that draws illegal immigrants
to this country," Clinton said.

"American jobs belong to America's legal workers," he said in signing the order,
which was first announced in his State of the Union address. "We are determined
to restore the rule of law to our nation's immigration system."

Clinton insisted that the order would not burden employers with "needless
paperwork" or result in employment discrimination. And it would not apply to
businesses that violated only "minor technical provisions" or hired ineligible
employees in good faith based on documents that appeared to be genuine, the
White House said.

Under a 1986 law, it is already illegal for companies, including government
contractors, to hire ineligible workers, and they can lose federal contracts for
serious offenses. Now, such companies would also be barred for a year from
competing for new federal contracts, a sanction that the White House called a
"powerful deterrent."

Critics described the action as largely superfluous and politically motivated.

"I'm not sure it's particularly meaningful," said Frank Sharry, director of the
National Immigration Forum, an immigration advocacy group. "It's more show than
substance."

Sharry said that his group did not object to the order and that the
administration deserved credit for tightening control of the southwestern
border, deporting criminal aliens and revising the asylum system. But as the
election campaign heats up, he said, the White House "seems more concerned with
public relations than with substantive progress."

Mark Krikorian, director of the Center for Immigration Studies, said the
government should establish a reliable national system to verify the legal
status of new employees before further punishing businessmen for hiring them.
"It's putting the cart before the horse," he said.

LOAD-DATE: February 14, 1996

LANGUAGE: English

                  Copyright 1996 St. Louis Post-Dispatch, Inc.


                              48 of 308 DOCUMENTS

                       St. Louis Post-Dispatch (Missouri)

                 March 22, 1996, Friday, FIVE STAR LIFT Edition

HOUSE OKS IMMIGRATION BILL; WOULD ADD BORDER AGENTS

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 1A

LENGTH: 545 words

DATELINE: WASHINGTON


The House approved legislation Thursday that would reduce illegal immigration by
boosting border enforcement and making life more difficult for undocumented
workers.

The bill, which passed on a 333-87 vote, would double the number of border
patrol agents to 10,000 and would remove some of the economic incentives that
are believed to encourage immigration.

Illegal immigrants would be ineligible for welfare, Medicaid, food stamps and
housing assistance.

States also would have the option of barring undocumented children from public
schools.

Although sponsors predicted that the bill would reduce illegal immigration by
half within five years, some supporters questioned the optimistic estimate.

"As long as there's a job, people are going to figure out a way to get here,"
said Rep. Pete Geren, D-Texas.

All House members from Southern Illinois and Missouri voted for the final bill,
except Rep. William L. Clay, D-Mo., who did not vote.

The overall bill that now goes to the Senate would:

Add 5,000 Border Patrol agents over five years.

Provide $ 12 million to build multiple lines of fences along parts of the
U.S.-Mexican border.

Crack down on smugglers of aliens, and document forgers and illegal aliens who
overstay temporary visas.

Bar members of foreign terrorist groups.

Set up an 800 number in five states - California, New York, New Jersey, Florida
and Texas - that employers could call to check whether job hunters were eligible
to work in the United States.

Earlier Thursday, the House voted 238-183 to delete most provisions that would
have restricted legal immigration - and would have cut it about 30 percent.

On this vote, Missouri Democrats and Southern Illinois Democrats all voted to
delete the provisions, and Missouri Republicans voted to keep them.

The proposed limits on legal immigration would have cut immigration from the
800,000-per-year level to about 700,000 a year for the next five years and to
560,000 after that.

Rep. Howard Berman, D-Calif., who co-sponsored deletion of the restrictions,
said, "Eight out of 10 Americans polled say, 'Deal with the problem of illegal
immigration before you touch legal immigration.' "

Also rejected were provisions that would have sharply restricted family members
whom naturalized Americans can bring into the country.

Guest Worker Program

The House also rejected, on a 242-180 vote, an amendment backed by agricultural
interests that would have created a new guest worker program allowing for the
admission of 250,000 farm workers a year for a maximum of 10 months.

Under the program, one-quarter of the workers' earnings would have been
withheld, and paid to them only when they returned to their home countries.

"The program would only be used if there is a shortage in American labor," said
Rep. Richard Pombo, R-Calif.

But Rep. Earl Pomeroy, D-N.D. said: "This is about having a cheap supply of
labor to hold wages down."

The White House had warned of a veto in that matter.

The U.S. population is expected to reach 275 million by the end of the decade,
more than double the population at the end of World War II.

The Census Bureau estimates that one-third of this population growth will be due
to immigration, both legal and illegal.

LOAD-DATE: March 22, 1996

LANGUAGE: English

                  Copyright 1996 St. Louis Post-Dispatch, Inc.


                              49 of 308 DOCUMENTS

                       St. Louis Post-Dispatch (Missouri)

                   March 24, 1996, Sunday, THREE STAR Edition

MEXICANS PLAN TO CROSS BORDER; MIGRANT WORKER IS UNFAZED: 'POLITICIANS ARE THE
LEAST OF MY WORRIES'

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 8A

LENGTH: 657 words

DATELINE: SAN FRANCISCO DE GAVEA, MEXICO


Along a lonely stretch of road in the middle of the Mexican state of Guanajuato,
Pedro Olmedo and his compadre, Juan Arriaga, passionately discuss politics and
travel.

Beneath a shade tree, the men carefully plan their annual trip to California's
lush San Joaquin Valley, where endless fields of tomatoes, melons and grapes
await them.

They're well aware that their journey and others like it have been drawn into
this year's U.S. presidential campaign. Both President Bill Clinton and Senate
Majority Leader Bob Dole, the likely presidential candidates, have proposed
steps to halt illegal immigration and to curb legal immigration. And the House
on Thursday passed a bill boosting border enforcement and making life more
difficult for undocumented workers.

But in this part of Mexico, where emigration to the United States is a way of
life, the two men don't question whether to go. Their only decision is when.

"If we don't get to California by next month, who will pick tomatoes and
grapes?" explained an earnest Olmedo. "Whose jobs are we taking? The Americans
won't do them."

Indeed, word about more Border Patrol agents, new fences and more infrared
cameras leaves Arriaga and Olmedo unfazed.

Arriaga dismisses the border as nothing more than an artificial barrier, a
hurdle to be surmounted as he and his countrymen follow economic opportunities.
"We either live and work here, or we live and work there."

Impact On California

Their impact on California is immense. Studies at the University of California
at Davis have estimated that 90 percent of the people working in California's
agriculture are of Mexican origin.

Mexico's devastating economic crisis - which has eroded the peso's spending
power, increased inflation and added to the unemployment rolls - has
strengthened the determination of those seeking to enter the United States,
analysts say.

Since 1993, President Clinton has increased the Immigration and Naturalization
Service budget by 73 percent, which has put hundreds more agents along the
border and fueled efforts to detain and deport illegal immigrants.

"The crucial thing to say about the border at this point is that it is harder to
cross than it ever has in recent history," said INS Commissioner Doris Meissner.

Still, for every 10 people apprehended, three to four get away, INS officials
admit. Meissner said new technology may make it possible to determine how many
people actually are entering the United States.

Still, while immigration continues to be debated from the Washington beltway to
California, Mexicans such as Arriaga shrug their shoulders. "It's all talk," he
said. "That's all."

In the heart of Mexico, the narrow and dusty roads in the states of Guanajuato,
San Luis Potosi and Jalisco still lead north as they have for decades. The three
states historically have accounted for most of the illegal and legal immigrants
currently living in the United States.

'Business As Usual'

In Cerritos, San Luis Potosi, undocumented immigrants with fake documents book
airline flights to Chicago, Houston and Dallas. In the town's main square, Jorge
Rios comforted his girlfriend, Marissa, as she fought back tears. Rios was on
his way to Houston to make money so they can get married.

"I worry about gangs, drive-by shootings, things like that," Rios said.
"Politicians are the least of my worries. After they're elected, it's business
as usual."

In Pegueros, Guanajuato, Arturo Serrates, 22, stood in the doorway of a small
grocery. In a few days, he planned to board a plane in Guadalajara and fly to
the border town of Tijuana. From there, he hoped to cross into the United
States.

"It's just something we do here," Serrates said, acknowledging with a laugh that
some locals call the town Pegueros, Calif. "It has to do with the economic
crisis. We have to find work to support us and our families. There are no jobs
here. There are jobs in the north."

LOAD-DATE: March 24, 1996

LANGUAGE: English

                  Copyright 1996 St. Louis Post-Dispatch, Inc.


                              50 of 308 DOCUMENTS

                       St. Louis Post-Dispatch (Missouri)

                  February 22, 1993, MONDAY, FIVE STAR Edition

ILLEGAL IMMIGRANTS POSE A PROBLEM IN ST. LOUIS

SECTION: BUSINESS PLUS; Pg. 8

LENGTH: 232 words


Nearly 1.2 million illegal aliens were apprehended by the U.S. Immigration and
Nationalization Service in 1991.

Rather than face long legal battles, most volunteered to return to their home
countries.

"Better than 98 percent are from Mexico," said Rick Kenney of the INS in
Washington. "And nearly all the rest are from Central America."

But despite the million or more illegal aliens returned each year, an equal or
larger number of people get through. And many end up working illegally in the
United States.

"Our problem is not as bad as L.A. or New York," said Chester S. Moyer, the top
INS officer in St. Louis.

"But it's as bad as other (Midwestern) cities like Kansas City, Indianapolis or
Memphis," he said.

Moyer admits the illegal worker problem is overwhelming federal and local law
officers.

"It's impossible," he said, "In the San Diego area, . . . they have more than
1,000 agents. If they catch a third or a half of those coming across the border,
they are lucky."

While most of the illegal immigrants in St. Louis are unskilled workers from
Latin American, Moyer said, illegals come from around the world and are from all
professions, including doctors, engineers and scientists.

Irish and Polish illegal immigrants are among the most common and some are
Canadians.

"We've even had an illegal Japanese, which is very rare," Moyer said.

LOAD-DATE: September 29, 1993

LANGUAGE: English

GRAPHIC: GRAPHIC; Graphic by Post-Dispatch - Aliens Apprehended - graphic list
number of aliens apprenhended in the thousands from 1951-1991. (source: U.S.
Immigration and Naturalization Service)

                  Copyright 1993 St. Louis Post-Dispatch, Inc.


                              51 of 308 DOCUMENTS

                       St. Louis Post-Dispatch (Missouri)

                  May 7, 1995, Sunday, FIVE STAR LIFT Edition

SHUTTLE 'ALIENS' ALLOWED TO LAND IN U.S.

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 11C

LENGTH: 97 words

DATELINE: WASHINGTON


The United States has agreed to allow illegal aliens from outer space to enter
the country.

Russian cosmonauts Vladimir Dezhurov and Gennady Strekalov were to come back to
Earth next month from the Mir space station on the space shuttle with American
Norman Thagard, landing either in California or Florida.

But neither Russian had a visa to enter this country. So the State Department
asked the Immigration and Naturalization Service to help. The Immigration
Service went along, a State Deptartment official said, so the two cosmonauts
won't be arrested as illegals.

LOAD-DATE: May 8, 1995

LANGUAGE: English

                  Copyright 1995 St. Louis Post-Dispatch, Inc.


                              52 of 308 DOCUMENTS

                       St. Louis Post-Dispatch (Missouri)

                    May 7, 1995, Sunday, THREE STAR Edition

'ALIENS' FROM SHUTTLE NOW ALLOWED TO LAND HERE WITHOUT PENALTY

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 10A

LENGTH: 95 words

DATELINE: WASHINGTON


The United States has agreed to allow illegal aliens from outer space to enter
the country.

Russian cosmonauts Vladimir Dezhurov and Gennady Strekalov were to come back to
Earth next month from the Mir space station on the space shuttle with American
Norman Thagard, landing either in California or Florida.

But neither Russian had a visa to enter this country. So the State Department
asked the Immigration and Naturalization Service to help. Immigration went
along, a State Deptartment official said, so the two cosmonauts won't be
arrested as illegals.

LOAD-DATE: May 8, 1995

LANGUAGE: English

                  Copyright 1995 St. Louis Post-Dispatch, Inc.


                              53 of 308 DOCUMENTS

                       St. Louis Post-Dispatch (Missouri)

                 May 18, 1995, Thursday, FIVE STAR LIFT Edition

KEEP AMERICA'S DOORS OPEN

BYLINE: Clarence Page Copyright Chicago Tribune

SECTION: EDITORIAL; Pg. 7B

LENGTH: 764 words

CLARENCE PAGE COLUMN

DATELINE: SAN FRANCISCO


Oops! How embarrassing for California Gov. Pete Wilson to stumble across not
only the fact that he had an undocumented immigrant working for him during his
previous marriage but also that he and his ex-wife failed to pay Social Security
taxes for her.

Since they hardly were the only householders to commit this crime, it would not
be nearly as embarrassing had Wilson not made the fight against illegal
immigration a key issue of his governorship and his fledgling presidential
campaign.

I thought "nannygate" was a bum issue when it sent President Bill Clinton's
nomination of Zoe Baird for attorney general into the tank, and I think it is a
bum issue now.

But I cannot help but be amused at how piquantly Wilson's little embarrassment
symbolizes the perennial contradictions in the way immigration is viewed by
otherwise good, patriotic citizens of this land, which was built by immigrants.

Wilson and his former wife could have hired a legal, documented worker, but they
would have had to spend more time searching and pay a lot more money for the
labor. Those who criticize immigrants for the tax dollars they cost,
conveniently leave out the tax dollars they pay, as well as the costs they save
consumers for various services.

Let's face it: Immigration, as an issue, is not about immigrants. It is a
measure of the public state of mind at any given time and its sense of economic
security. When the economy is doing well, we throw open the doors. When it turns
sour, we turn nativist. California took just such an attitudinal turn when its
economy went sour with the post-Cold War loss of defense-related jobs a few
years ago.

Americans get very emotional about immigrants. Each side of the debate can
produce generous amounts of scientific studies to back its argument. But most
people don't need scientific studies. Most people sound more like a suburban
Washington businessman I met at a dinner party who said today's immigrants don't
want to learn English and become "good Americans." After I had laid on perhaps a
bit too heavy a layer of rebuttals to his popular nativist myths, he remained
unmoved. "I know what I see," he said.

And that's that. People know what they see in issues like immigration. They are
not about to let much truth get in the way of it.

"The tendency of the casual mind," the great columnist Walter Lippmann once
wrote, "is to pick out or stumble upon a sample which supports or defies its
prejudices, and then to make it the representative of a whole class."

It is just such a casual mind that has produced what is, to my mind, a
guaranteed hot-seller on the anti-immigrant front, a new book called "Alien
Nation," by Peter Brimelow, a British-born naturalized citizen and senior editor
at Forbes and National Review.   In keeping with a great American immigrant
tradition, Brimelow wants to slam the door, now that he and his family have
gotten in.

He cites the usual array of statistics of how much immigrants cost us in social
services, then minimizes what they contribute, financially and otherwise.
Instead, he cites abuses of social services by some immigrants, as if abuse is
not a problem no matter who commits it. But, rather than suggest mere reform, he
wants to go much further.

Brimelow gives his prejudices away full force when he writes of the "ethnic and
racial transformation" of America and the diluting of its rich European heritage
of which, as it happens, Brimelow the Briton, happens to be a natural-born
product.

Brimelow raises doubts that non-Europeans are capable of melting into the
melting pot.   Is he right to worry? Perhaps he might be soothed by our nation's
rapidly rising intermarriage rate between whites and nonwhites. Marriages
between Japanese-Americans and members of other racial groups now outnumber
marriages between Japanese-Americans and other Japanese-Americans. The so-called
"melting pot" still works.

Or I would call to his attention one Colin Powell. Had Powell's Jamaica-born
parents decided to go to England, instead of the Bronx, where Powell grew up, he
quite likely would have risen, at best, to the rank of sergeant major as a black
man in the queen's army.   Instead, he became chairman of the Joint Chiefs of
Staff and tops everyone's list of presidential favorites, no matter what ethnic
or political background.

Maybe immigrant families like Powell's are not European enough to soothe
Brimelow's anxieties, but the great thing about America is its willingness to
give them a chance anyway. Brimelow should, too, if he wants to be a good
American.

LOAD-DATE: May 19, 1995

LANGUAGE: English

                  Copyright 1995 St. Louis Post-Dispatch, Inc.


                              54 of 308 DOCUMENTS

                       St. Louis Post-Dispatch (Missouri)

                 June 30, 1995, Friday, FIVE STAR LIFT Edition

PANEL SEEKS TO CONTROL IMMIGRATION

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 9A

LENGTH: 386 words

DATELINE: WASHINGTON


A House task force proposed on Thursday firm measures to curb illegal
immigration, including requiring hospitals to report illegal aliens who come to
emergency rooms for treatment and denying federal education funds for
undocumented children.

Under the 62-page plan submitted to House Speaker Newt Gingrich, virtually all
federal benefits would be denied to illegal aliens. They still could receive
emergency medical treatment, but hospitals would be required to report
undocumented patients to authorities for deportation.

Gingrich, R-Ga., who set up the task force, broadly endorsed the proposals. He
called them "specific, common-sense, practical recommendations."

The task force plan also calls for a fortified border and a constitutional
amendment ending automatic citizenship for children born of undocumented
immigrants on U.S. soil.

Gingrich estimates that the measures in the plan would cut illegal entries by at
least 70 percent.

The Immigration and Naturalization Service estimates that more than 4 million
undocumented aliens are in the country, with the majority residing in
California, New York, Texas and Florida.

As chairman of the House subcommittee on immigration, Rep. Lamar Smith, R-Texas,
will have first crack at acting on the proposals. He embraced the task force's
goals Thursday but did not comment on specifics.

His own bill to curb illegal immigration does not cut off health and education
benefits, nor does it address the birthright citizenship, guaranteed under the
14th Amendment to the Constitution.

In a statement, the National Council of La Raza, a Hispanic civil rights group,
accused the task force of pandering to public opinion on illegal immigration.

"It is not consistent with American values to throw children out of school and
onto the streets," the group said.

In November, California voters approved  Proposition 187, which, like the task
force, would deny public education and nonemergency health care to illegal
immigrants and would require doctors, teachers and welfare workers to turn in
those suspected of being in the country illegally.

Proposition 187 remains stalled in the courts.

The task force would leave the decision on schooling illegal aliens up to the
states but would deny them any federal funds for the aliens' education.

LOAD-DATE: July 1, 1995

LANGUAGE: English

                  Copyright 1995 St. Louis Post-Dispatch, Inc.


                              55 of 308 DOCUMENTS

                       St. Louis Post-Dispatch (Missouri)

                  October 1, 1995, Sunday, THREE STAR Edition

DEPORTATION OF ILLEGAL ALIENS HITS 10-YEAR HIGH

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 11A

LENGTH: 118 words

DATELINE: WASHINGTON


Deportations of illegal aliens in August reached the highest monthly level in 10
years as the government intensified its efforts nationwide, the Immigration and
Naturalization Service said.

The agency said 5,344 illegal aliens were deported in August, up from 3,778 in
July and 4,174 in August 1994.

The latest deportations brought the total for Oct. 1, 1994, through Aug. 31, to
43,169.

Of the 5,344 illegal aliens removed in August, 3,053 were criminals, the agency
said. The other 2,291 had not committed crimes but were in the country
illegally.

The August figures were the highest in about 10 years, said agency spokesman Don
Mueller.

The earlier figures were not immediately available.

LOAD-DATE: October 1, 1995

LANGUAGE: English

                  Copyright 1995 St. Louis Post-Dispatch, Inc.


                              56 of 308 DOCUMENTS

                       St. Louis Post-Dispatch (Missouri)

                October 15, 1995, Sunday, FIVE STAR LIFT Edition

SILENT GUESTS; LITTLE NOTICED, ILLEGAL IMMIGRANTS ARE GROWING PRESENCE HERE

BYLINE: Philip Dine Of the Post-Dispatch Staff

SECTION: WAR PAGE; Pg. 1B

LENGTH: 3100 words


THE TALL, LEAN man in his 30s has been here four months. He sorts tomatoes,
chili peppers and corn at a produce center, then washes dishes at a restaurant.

Texas was tough, with authorities constantly on the lookout, he says. St. Louis,
by contrast, "is a quiet place for living."

In his case, he quickly adds, such concerns don't matter, because he has papers
and came up from Mexico the proper way, on a bus.

Most of the others in the little apartment abruptly stop what they're doing.
Several gaze at the floor, as if embarrassed by Julio's blatantly false claim.

For they, like Julio, belong to one of St. Louis' fastest-growing and
most-hidden groups - illegal immigrants.

They number 12,000 to 16,000, and their path here is widening as a result of a
healthy job market, hostility in other regions, a convenient location and the
very anonymity offered by the area's inattention to immigration. Mexicans form
by far the biggest portion of a group that includes Indians and Nigerians,
Canadians and Poles.

Fourteen Mexicans live in the two apartments - Julio and six other men in one,
an extended family in the other - on the top floor of the three-story building a
few blocks south of Tower Grove Park.

They do their daily chores quietly, to avoid being caught and deported, but
their undocumented status complicates everything. So their lives have evolved
into a furtive chaos.

Just getting to work involves a choreography of 12 adults, 20 jobs, a few old
cars, manufactured licenses and hours that vary daily. They've got it down now:
Two or three men each drive a handful of others on designated routes, then at
day's end leave work and pick them up in reverse order.

Saturday evening provides a rare respite as they gather in one of the
apartments, that of Elena and Luis.

Several speak of their paths here and their goals. Julio hopes to save enough
money, after sending $ 70 a month to his family in Mexico, to eventually return
home and start a small business. But if he follows the pattern of most, that
dream will prove as illusory as the validity of his documents, and he'll end up
sending for his family to join him here.

Elena, 30, stands guard at the door, left hand on the knob, right hand pressed
against her teeth, monitoring the various conversations, clearly the dominant
presence.

The 14, from near the U.S.-Mexican border and used to urban life, are adapting
faster than the many who have come to St. Louis from the state of Michoacan in
Mexico's mountainous central region. For instance, they have a telephone.

Still perspiring after a day's work with the large lawn-care firm whose logo is
on his green shirt, Luis walks over and sits on a window ledge to tell his
story.

A couple of years ago, as Mexican immigration here was picking up, he headed
north from the state of Chihuahua, choosing St. Louis because a friend lived
here. He paid a raftsman $ 5 to take him, his wife and two children across the
Rio Grande. They got as far as the airport in El Paso before immigration
officials turned them back.

Two weeks later, Luis tried alone, swimming the river to save the money. Past
the border, he crossed a highway and walked the half-mile to a train yard.
Mindful of the security guards, he waited under trees until dusk, spotted a cage
door ajar on a train ready to transport new cars, found the keys to a car and
settled in - for a three-day trip ending, it turned out, in Kansas City.

Before leaving Mexico, Luis had sent his friend a photograph as asked. When he
arrived on a Sunday, Social Security and permanent resident alien cards awaited
him, a made-in-Chicago present that cost his relative $ 120, a typical price.
The next day, Luis was working at a food-packing plant.

Luis is 32, but because his buddy overestimated his age when getting the cards
made, he has to use 34.

The documents he and Elena bought look crude, yet have taken the two
unquestioned through a string of jobs - yard work, demolition, food packaging,
tube cutting, restaurant and hotel cleaning. But when problems arise - such as
his wife's two bounced paychecks totaling $ 816 - he feels uncomfortable saying
much.

Luis and Elena invented a Social Security number for their 6-year-old and bought
a card for $ 30 for the 12-year-old, in case someone asks for them in school.

They avoid or are ineligible for most government programs, paying out of pocket
for a sick child and market rate for their apartment.

Julio is resigned to leaving if caught. His one regret is the lack of a genuine
drivers license, which would at least elevate his commute to a quasi-legal
activity. "I'd like to get one," he says, "but I don't know what they're going
to ask." 'This Is A Peaceful City'

Chester Moyer, local director of the Immigration and Naturalization Service, has
been negotiating with Trans World Airlines about a 6:25 a.m. flight from Mexico
City that the airline plans to introduce Oct. 30.

Moyer wants the flight to arrive when his small staff is on duty, given his
concern it will add, even if minimally, to what he calls a dramatic rise in
illegal immigration here.

Tipoffs to a surge: Jammed hallways in the Robert A. Young Federal Building on
recent mornings set aside for questions about amnesty programs, and the jostling
for position when the INS door opens. Or, the bodies found now and then along
the railroad tracks, dumped out with the coal as someone slept on a freight
train.

The INS recently has engaged in more joint raids with agencies handling
occupational safety, labor, environmental protection and law enforcement. That
reflects not a crackdown but a proportional response to a growing flow, Moyer
says. As the numbers rise, he is shifting focus to the larger scene - uncovering
those who help transport illegal aliens, supply their papers or employ them.

People who counsel illegal immigrants are watching warily but still see this
area as comparatively safe, a perception helping to fuel the influx.

"It's low key. This is a very peaceful city," says Adela Peugnet-Lightle, a
social worker with the city's Human Development Corp. "As long as you work and
do your thing, nobody's going to bother you." Who's Here And How

Illegal immigrants here, and nationally, split evenly into those who sneak into
the country, usually over the U.S.-Mexican border, and those who enter with
documents but overstay their authorized visit.

About 80 percent of those here who entered illegally are Mexicans but enough
Central and South Americans and Asians now cross the southern border that
officials have coined the acronym "OTMs" - Other Than Mexicans. If caught,
Central Americans sometimes claim to be Mexicans so they'll be deported closer
to the U.S. border, making their return quicker.

Others come openly but remain after their authorization expires. About 10 to 15
percent of Indians and Pakistanis here have done that, authorities say, as have
some Africans and Canadians.

Cautiously, between waiting on customers in a West County convenience store, a
middle-aged scientist from India who emigrated here legally three years ago
described a brazen attitude among his countrymen without proper documents.

"They're not scared at all," he says. "They say, 'What are they going to do once
we are here? They don't deport us. They don't come up to us. They don't look for
us. Why should we be scared?' "

Many Indians work in small stores or doughnut shops owned by friends or
relatives throughout St. Louis County.

Some come with no papers at all, crossing the U.S.-Mexican border, the clerk
says, while others carry another person's passport.

Agents in India pay up to $ 2,500 to buy a passport from someone who has
returned from a U.S. visit, then sell the document, stamped with a visitor's
visa, for $ 3,000 to someone wanting to move to the United States and who
resembles the original holder.

"They only have the passport in hand a few days, to get past customs, then they
give it back to someone from the smuggling operation," the clerk says. "One
passport can bring 100 people in."

He hears about this regularly from customers and encountered it personally this
summer on a trip to India when people offered to bring over his son, who may
have to wait six years to get here legally.

The 6,000 Mexicans estimated to be in the St. Louis area illegally are the
fastest-growing group, with a family of three or four arriving on an average
day, say Hispanics who work with immigrants. Many settle in south St. Louis or
the Metro East area; 40 percent of Fairmont City's 2,300 residents are Mexican,
with illegal aliens forming about 15 percent of the city's entire population.

Increasingly, the new arrivals are secondary immigrants - fleeing political
controversy, legal crackdowns or economic competition in states with large
Hispanic populations such as California, Texas or Florida, for the safer turf of
an initially overlooked Midwestern city.

The atmosphere may be calmer here, but the old fears linger. It also may be
harder to blend in. And the low-key nature of the Hispanic presence leaves many
feeling isolated, with little support network.

"These are people who stay at home, people who don't want anyone to know they're
here," says Jesus Ituarte, whose South Grand Boulevard law practice of 10 months
centers on Hispanic immigrants.

"They work, they eat, they lock themselves inside. They close their windows even
in summer. They're here, but they're almost invisible." Taking Risks On The Job

It's closing time at the upscale Mexican restaurant in St. Louis County. Manuel,
35, looks almost regal as he sweeps the floor, black hair combed neatly back,
topped by his tall white hat. But the nervous way he glances at those who look
his way suggests unease.

All's fine, he insists. But join this stolid, reserved man on his day off in the
sanctuary of a trusted church on North 14th Street in the city, and he explains
his wariness: He fears being caught; he fears being hurt.

His previous job in a restaurant ended last year when, he says, he was cleaning
an industrial refrigerator with a wet rag. An electric shock propelled his right
hand backward into a sharp metal edge that slashed his wrist.

A supervisor took him to a hospital where a doctor treated the hand, then asked
for insurance papers. The supervisor said she'd bring them next time.

But there were none, and he had trouble getting further care. At the urging of a
doctor, he wound up suing the restaurant.

Going to court carries dangers, Manuel knows, and he worries about what the
judge will ask him.

In five years here after a stint in Houston, Manuel has remodeled apartments,
cleaned restaurants and worked in a Chinese noodle factory.

"I do not feel the liberty to object, to say this is dangerous," he says. "I do
what I am told to do."

Hiring illegal immigrants may save the employer taxes, and provides compliant
workers who will do unpleasant and even dangerous work, accept low pay and long
hours without overtime and who are unlikely to complain if they are fired or
anything goes wrong. It is a formula both sides accept.

Work is the likeliest place for illegals to be caught, because strapped INS
officials focus on areas inviting danger or exploitation. Making It Seem
Official

Many Mexicans here work in Asian or Mexican restaurants.

Others work for lawn-care firms, enough so a new word of sorts - "yarda" - has
cropped up here among Hispanics to designate that type of work.

Those jobs, like ones pouring concrete or shredding autos, are plentiful and may
require scant training or English. The businesses tend to be small or mobile and
hard to track down; or they deal in cash and can disguise the number of
employees.

Fraudulent papers come mainly from Chicago, with those from Los Angeles taking
longer and costing more. Some now apparently are being made here. How good they
look varies and may be immaterial.

"The employers know the cards aren't valid - but they're willing to look the
other way," says someone who has helped many obtain them. "If something happens,
they can say, 'Hey, he showed me the card. I'm not an INS officer. I can't
distinguish.' "

Newcomers learn how the system functions at several locations, including local
markets and dance halls - or at the soccer games played Sundays in a desolate
stretch of near-north St. Louis.

The robust man of 33 who sometimes guards the goal has placed fellow Mexicans in
Chinese restaurants here and around Missouri, including Jefferson City, Columbia
and Springfield.

They start at about $ 250 weekly as dishwashers, busboys or, sometimes, prep
cooks. They work six days a week, often 10 a.m. to 10 p.m. They are fed at the
restaurant and are paid in cash.

Workers who are injured, at a restaurant or another job, may be told by a
"company doctor" to rest briefly and resume work.

"It's real bogus," says Ituarte, the South Grand lawyer. "They know it, and I
know it. But it covers the eye, as we say in Spanish - makes it seem real
official."

Illegal Polish immigrants have worked here at several nursing homes, including
three fined $ 64,000 by the INS last month for employing a dozen illegal
immigrants - most of them Poles, a few Filipinos. In some cases, Poles fly to
Chicago as tourists, overstay their visas, buy documents and seek work in St.
Louis.

More elusive is whether St. Louis ends up with some of the Chinese brought into
this country and forced to work until they pay their debt, about $ 30,000, to
the smugglers.

Many have come over the past decade to New York, which is so saturated that
wages are tumbling. Some of those smuggled in are being dispersed to other parts
of the country, says Peter Kwong of Hunter College in New York, who writes about
Chinese smuggling.

Tong Gao, an immigration lawyer who emigrated from China to St. Louis seven
years ago, says: "I personally have been contacted by some of these people -
enslaved, smuggled Chinese. They ask me to help, but I can't."

A couple of times a month, Moyer's immigration agency finds Chinese here working
for a pittance in a restaurant and housed together.

"We could never prove they were living under that kind of situation where they
sign themselves over to the owner, though we suspected they did," Moyer says.
"We just treat them as illegal workers, not as part of a criminal organization."
'They're Scared'

As Maria Luisa, here two years, walks through her high school's halls, some
students taunt her for poor English. Or they step on her pant cuffs from behind.

Kid stuff, perhaps, but she feels vulnerable and is reluctant to draw attention
to herself or her family.

Her mother can sew the pants but can't help Maria Luisa with school.

"I feel bad," the mother says, "because sometimes Maria Luisa will tell me there
will be meetings with the parents, and I can't go."

Priscilla Schulz, social worker for English as Second Language students in St.
Louis, notes a sizeable increase in Mexican students this year. Other groups,
aside from Bosnian refugees, remain stable.

Schulz finds dealing with undocumented families delicate, especially getting
forms signed for lunch or other programs.

"They're scared, and rightly so," she says. "The attitude in a lot of places is
so xenophobic. Some secretaries in some schools, as soon as they hear someone's
illegal, they get uptight. I have to let them know there's legal precedent,
we're supposed to serve them."

By law, schools serve all children living in their districts, whether they are
here legally or not. Some subsidized programs, such as lunch, require
documentation.

Some families avoid the risks of school by keeping their children home.

Either way, living surreptitiously can wear upon a child's psyche.

"That's the saddest part I've discovered in dealing with these people - when
they're not proud in front of the world," says social worker Peugnet-Lightle.
"Many of these children were not allowed to say, 'I have a mother and father,
and my mother is so and so,' because of the documents. It is part of their
identity."

In many families, some people are here legally and some are not. So all members
must be careful.

Peugnet-Lightle, a native of Nicaragua, encounters many mothers who give birth
at home - one way to avoid the health care system. William Chignoli, a doctor in
Argentina and founder here of Hispanic Community Social Action, reports less
immunization among undocumented families.

Alarmed by such developments, the March of Dimes in St. Louis plans a conference
for December.

"We want people to speak out about what their needs are, why they're not getting
access and how this is affecting their infant mortality rates and low-birth
weights," says spokeswoman Carrie Marshall.

"So many are afraid to get real help, because then they would be known." Fear Of
Being Overwhelmed

With virtually no public attention, Jim Montgomery, a state representative from
Texas County in south-central Missouri, delved into the issue of illegal aliens
in the past legislative session.

Montgomery, R-Cabool, feared restrictive measures in other states, such as
California's Proposition 187, would drive them here.

"We Missourians sometimes have a soft heart," he says. "We tend to take care of
people."

So he wrote House Bill 113, denying to illegal immigrants most public benefits.
He backed off after an initial hearing but, saying he fears the state could end
up overwhelmed, is open to renewing his bid.

"We feel they should stay home and make their country a better place to live,
rather than come up here." A Way Of Fitting In

Rafael, dark eyes anxiously darting, and Christian, cap sideways over his blond
hair and fear etched on his pale face, were hungry and disoriented as they
wandered about south St. Louis at dawn, after a week on a train from southern
Mexico.

No English, no jobs, no friends, no plans for these two 17-year-olds, whose
almost arbitrary arrival here reflects the growth of St. Louis as a destination
where some simply hope for the best.

A neighborhood resident pointed them to the small apartment of Juanita and Poli
and their eight children. For the past month, the family has stretched the white
corn and beans a bit further.

Juanita knows well where the two youths could buy documents if only they could
scrape up the required $ 100 apiece. She hopes someone will risk giving them
work for a week or two, so they can buy papers and get a permanent job. Illegal,
yes, but from her perspective that's how they can start fitting into the system.

LOAD-DATE: October 15, 1995

LANGUAGE: English

GRAPHIC: PHOTO, GRAPHIC; (1) Color Photo By Scott Dine/Post-Dispatch - It's been
long climb for this family of eight from Mexico to this second-floor flat in St.
Louis. The mother and one of her childrehn bid goodbye to visitors. Their images
have been shaded electronically to protect their identities. (Caption changed
from THREE STAR edition, which reads:) It's been a long climb for this family of
eight from Mexico to this second-floor flat in St. Louis. The mother and one of
her children bid goodbye to visitors. (2) Photo By Scott Dine/Post-Dispatch -
These teen-age boys ran away from their homes in Mexico, one to escape a bad
family situation and both to find work, and hopped freight trains before
arriving lost in St. Louis. A Mexican family here is sheltering them until they
get fake documents and then jobs. (3) Photo By Scott Dine/Post-Dispatch - These
young Mexican immigrants must overcome a variety of hurdles, from a language
barrier to a cramped apartment that is home to 10 people, as they study for
school. Their mother is concerned; she doesn't speak English and can't
accomplish anything at school meetings. (4) Graphic Chart - Illegal Immigrants
Selected groups in the St. Louis area Mexicans        6,000 Indians
600 Pakistanis        375 Canadians         250 Russians          225 Polish
           200 Palestinians      200 Chinese           200 Nigerians         150
El Salvadorans    100 Guatemalans       100 South Africans    100 These are
Post-Dispatch estimates based on discussions with immigrant associations, people
who work with immigrants and government officials.

TYPE: PROFILE ILLEGAL IMMIGRANTS IN THE ST. LOUIS AREA

                  Copyright 1995 St. Louis Post-Dispatch, Inc.


                              57 of 308 DOCUMENTS

                       St. Louis Post-Dispatch (Missouri)

               December 29, 1995, Friday, FIVE STAR LIFT Edition

51,600 ALIENS DEPORTED THIS YEAR, U.S. REPORTS

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 3A

LENGTH: 329 words

DATELINE: WASHINGTON


The Justice Department said Thursday that 51,600 illegal aliens were evicted
from the United States this year, including nearly 32,000 convicted of crimes
after their arrival.

"Thirty-two thousand fewer criminal aliens on the streets of America makes a
huge difference," said Deputy Attorney General Jamie Gorelick. "Bear in mind
also that this is part of a larger program. We turn back, in one form or
another, a million and a half people a year."

The report comes as conservative Republicans in Congress push for measures to
reduce all immigration and keep illegal aliens from U.S. jobs.

Immigration is expected to be a major issue in next year's presidential race,
especially in border states such as California and Texas.

Immigration and Naturalization Service Commissioner Doris Meissner credited the
increase in deportations to better border enforcement and increased attention to
expelling criminal aliens after they have completed prison terms.

Meanwhile, a separate report warned of "a growing trade in human cargo" and said
smugglers are becoming more sophisticated and aggressive.

"This is a serious problem," Meissner said. "This is heavily organized activity
that uses sophisticated methods."

The report came after a nine-month study by the State Department, Justice
Department, INS, Coast Guard, CIA and FBI.

The report blames official corruption and lax law enforcement in several
countries - from China and Europe to Central America - for the flow of thousands
of illegal aliens worldwide, many into the United States.

It said most of the criminal deportations came from five states - Texas,
Florida, California, New York and Illinois - where special measures have been
taken to combat illegal immigration.

The smugglers send thousands of Latin Americans and Asians into the United
States through Central America each year, using bribery and a vast network of
airlines, hotels and local officials to aid them, according to the INS.

LOAD-DATE: December 29, 1995

LANGUAGE: English

                  Copyright 1995 St. Louis Post-Dispatch, Inc.


                              58 of 308 DOCUMENTS

                       St. Louis Post-Dispatch (Missouri)

                January 15, 1996, Monday, FIVE STAR LIFT Edition

U.S. BORDER CRACKDOWN UPSETS MEXICO

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 7A

LENGTH: 212 words

DATELINE: MEXICO CITY


Mexican leaders on Sunday assailed U.S. plans to tighten the border against
illegal immigration from Mexico, calling them unneighborly.

Relations between the two countries could deteriorate as a result of the plan,
said Antonio Garcia Sanchez, the government human rights official in Baja,
Calif.

"You cannot talk about being good neighbors when a neighboring country and
supposed commercial partner adopts policies that have nothing to do with reality
and only create conflicts," Garcia Sanchez said.

The United States said it will move more border agents and modern equipment to
Arizona and California beginning Tuesday.

The effort is intended to prevent an expected surge of illegal immigrants that
stems from normal seasonal increases and difficult economic times in Mexico.

In the longer term, it is part of a broad plan to control illegal immigration
and smuggling, Attorney General Janet Reno and Immigration Commissioner Doris
Meissner said Friday.

The Mexican government expressed concern about reports the United States may
include military forces in patrolling the border. The country's foreign office
said such a move "does not solve the complex phenomenon of migration but
contributes to worsening relations between border communities."

LOAD-DATE: January 15, 1996

LANGUAGE: English

                  Copyright 1996 St. Louis Post-Dispatch, Inc.


                              59 of 308 DOCUMENTS

                       St. Louis Post-Dispatch (Missouri)

                 February 11, 1996, Sunday, THREE STAR Edition

RENO POINTS TO PROGESS IN HALTING FLOW OF ILLEGAL ALIENS

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 9A

LENGTH: 290 words

DATELINE: WASHINGTON


The strategy of stopping undocumented immigrants at the Southwestern border is
working and can be expanded to the interior, says Attorney  General Janet Reno.

"The resources have arrived to put the full strategy in place," she  said
Thursday.

Congress recently approved a 24 percent spending increase for the Immigration
and Naturalization Service, to $ 2.6 billion. That amounts to a 72 percent
increase in three years.

Much of the buildup has focused on the Southwestern border, where the service
this year will add 1,000 agents, including 200 agents to be transferred from
interior stations. About 4,400 agents now patrol the  border with Mexico.

But work site enforcement will get new attention this year as the INS more than
doubles the number of personnel who target employer violations, from 317 to 701,
INS Commissioner Doris Meissner said.

INS officials say more migrants are trying to cross the Southwestern border
because of Mexico's economic problems. Added resources have helped the agency to
counter increased entries near San Diego, the busiest  crossing point for
undocumented workers, Meissner said. "We're basically  holding our own."

The border in California will get the largest share of new INS  personnel,
including 462 Border Patrol agents, a 28 percent increase.

The Texas border with Mexico will get 165 new Border Patrol agents, an  8
percent increase that will include 92 transferred from interior  stations. Texas
also will get 39 work-site enforcement investigators, as  well as 210 inspectors
to help immigrants cross the border legally.

An additional 1,406 new personnel nationwide, including 256 in Texas, will help
detain and remove criminal and other deportable immigrants.

LOAD-DATE: February 11, 1996

LANGUAGE: English

                  Copyright 1996 St. Louis Post-Dispatch, Inc.


                              60 of 308 DOCUMENTS

                       St. Louis Post-Dispatch (Missouri)

                   March 22, 1996, Friday, THREE STAR Edition

HOUSE APPROVES IMMIGRATION BILL: MORE AGENTS, TOLL-FREE NUMBERS

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 6A

LENGTH: 565 words

DATELINE: WASHINGTON


By a vote of 333-87, the House approved on Thursday sweeping legislation to
combat illegal immigration.

In the first major congressional action on immigration in a decade, the House
deleted most provisions that would have restricted legal immigration - and cut
it about 30 percent.

The overall bill that now goes to the Senate would:

Add 5,000 Border Patrol agents over five years.

Crack down on smugglers of aliens, and document forgers and illegal aliens who
overstay temporary visas.

Bar members of foreign terrorist groups.

Set up an 800 number in five states that employers could call to check whether
job hunters were eligible to work in the United States.

Earlier Thursday, the House voted 238-183 to delete most restrictions on legal
immigration in a new bill.

On this vote, Missouri Democrats and Southern Illinois Democrats all voted to
delete the provisions, and Missouri Republicans voted to keep them.

The House also rejected creation of a 250,000-person guest worker program sought
by agriculture interests. The White House had warned of a veto over that matter.

The proposed limits on legal immigration would have cut such immigration from
the 800,000-per-year level to about 700,000 a year for the next five years and
to 560,000 after that.

Also rejected were provisions that would have made more visas available for
spouses and minor children of legal U.S. residents while ending the program that
allows those residents to bring siblings and most adult children into the
country.

Rep. Howard Berman, D-Calif., who co-sponsored deleting the restrictions on
legal immigrants, said, "Eight out of 10 Americans polled say, 'Deal with the
problem of illegal immigration before you touch legal immigration.'

"It is fundamentally wrong to take the justifiable anger about our failure to
deal with the issue of illegal immigration and piggyback on top of that anger a
drastic . . . cut in permanent legal immigration, a cause and a force that has
been good for this country."

On the other side was Rep. Lamar Smith, R-Texas, the bill's chief author, who
said the amendment "hurts American families and workers. A fundamental problem
in our current immigration system is that more than 80 percent of all legal
immigrants are now admitted without reference to their skills and education."

Guest Worker Program

Thirty-seven percent of recent immigrants lack a high school education, he said,
adding, "Experts agree that this surplus of unskilled immigrants hurts those
Americans who can least afford it, those at the lowest end of the economic
ladder."

The House also rejected, on a 242-180 vote, an amendment backed by agriculture
interests that would have created a new guest worker program allowing for the
admission of 250,000 farm workers a year for a maximum of 10 months. Under the
program, one-quarter of the workers' earnings would have been withheld, and paid
to them only when they returned to their home countries.

"The program would only be used if there is a shortage in American labor," said
Rep. Richard Pombo, R-Calif. But Rep. Earl Pomeroy, D-N.D. said: "This is about
having a cheap supply of labor to hold wages down."

In the Senate Thursday, the Judiciary Committee approved, 13-4, a bill aimed at
stemming the flow of illegal aliens. The committee is to take up a companion
bill dealing with legal aliens next week.

LOAD-DATE: March 22, 1996

LANGUAGE: English

                  Copyright 1996 St. Louis Post-Dispatch, Inc.


                              61 of 308 DOCUMENTS

                       St. Louis Post-Dispatch (Missouri)

                April 3, 1996, Wednesday, FIVE STAR LIFT Edition

FBI SEEKS ANSWERS IN BEATING OF 2 SUSPECTS; ILLEGAL IMMIGRANTS CAUGHT AFTER
CHASE

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 1A

LENGTH: 916 words

DATELINE: LOS ANGELES


The FBI opened a civil rights investigation Tuesday into the videotaped clubbing
of two illegal immigrants.

Meanwhile, the Mexican government condemned the beating as a "flagrant
violation" of the rights of its citizens.

Two Riverside County sheriff's deputies clubbed the suspects Monday after
chasing a pickup crammed with people suspected of sneaking across the border.
Television news helicopters captured the beating on video in broad daylight.

During the chase, the pickup reached speeds of 100 mph.

The truck finally stopped on the side of the freeway, and most of the passengers
in back ran away. One deputy, holding his baton two-handed like a baseball bat,
was videotaped clubbing a man on the back and shoulders, even as the man fell
face down on the ground.

When a woman got out of the cab, the same deputy beat her in the back with the
baton and then grabbed her by the hair and pulled her to the ground. At least
one other deputy struck her with his baton.

Neither person, both Mexicans, appeared to resist or attempt to get away from
the officers.

David Ross, the attorney for the beaten woman, identified the man hit with the
baton as Enrique Funez, 30. Funez was briefly treated and is being held at a
Riverside County detention center. The extent of his injuries was not known.

Leticia Gonzalez, 33, who suffered bruises on her face and arms, was released
Tuesday to Ross' custody.

"She told me, 'All I know is, when I came out of the car, I said, "Yo soy aqui,"
which means I'm here, he grabbed me by the hair, pulled me down, and started to
hit me,' " Ross said.

"And then another officer, and we have not identified that officer, yelled out
to stop hitting her, and to stop hitting Enrique, because Enrique was bleeding
very profusely on his leg," Ross said.

Another man, the driver of the pickup, was treated at Riverside General Hospital
for bruises and a possible broken elbow believed to be suffered as he tried to
flee. He was identified as Andrian Flores Martinez, 26, of Mexico, and jailed.

Police initially said the truck carried 21 people, but they rounded up only 19,
including the two in the cab. Most were still being detained Tuesday evening by
the Immigration and Naturalization Service pending deportation proceedings.

The tape of the beatings was shown on television in Mexico and the United
States, prompting an outcry by human rights groups.

Lee Douglas, a Justice Department spokeswoman, said the FBI would focus on
possible criminal civil rights violations. The investigation will be conducted
with local authorities.

When asked for President Bill Clinton's reaction, Mike McCurry, the White House
press secretary, said, "He's concerned. We are asking the Justice Department to
keep us apprised of any effort they make to monitor the situation."

Gov. Pete Wilson said, "From the videotape, it certainly seems that excessive
force was used."

The Riverside County Sheriff's Department identified the deputies Tuesday as
Tracy Watson and Kurtis Franklin and said both were suspended with pay. Franklin
has been with the department for 20 years, and Watson for five.

"I'm not going to stand up here and say that there was no force used, because
you would laugh me out of the room," sheriff's Sgt. Mark Lohman said at a news
conference. "We saw it, we saw the same videotape that everyone's seen, and
we're embarrassed."

Both Los Angeles and Riverside authorities were investigating. The clubbing
happened in South El Monte in Los Angeles County, but the pursuit began in
Riverside County.

Law enforcement officials first spotted the pickup on a side road commonly used
to evade an immigration agency checkpoint about 60 miles north of the Mexican
border. When Border Patrol agents began chasing them, police said, the
passengers lobbed beer cans at them.

The Border Patrol then backed off and called for assistance from the Riverside
County Sheriff's Department, which picked up the pursuit.

As the chase stretched over more than 70 miles of expressway at speeds reaching
100 mph, the pickup's camper top flew off. Twice during the chase, the pickup
rammed other cars apparently to divert attention, police said.

Mexico's Department of Foreign Relations said it had "expressed its indignation"
and "energetically condemned this flagrant violation of the human rights of its
nationals" in a letter to the State Department.

The letter said the beating demonstrated the need to "eradicate discriminatory
attitudes that lead to acts of institutional violence."

It also demanded an investigation by the U.S. Justice Department, saying the
Mexican government "will closely follow the development of this investigation
until its satisfactory conclusion."

Immigrant rights and civil liberties organizations gathered Tuesday at the
Federal Building in Los Angeles, chanting, "Justicia!"

"What we have here is an ugly reminder of the violent hate crimes that several
police officers engage in to manifest their hatred toward minorities," Hector
Brolo, national president of the Mexican American Political Association, told
about two dozen protesters. The two sheriff's deputies are white.

"We will not rest until these people are arrested. I'm firmly convinced this was
racially motivated."

The incident brought back memories of the beating of Rodney King, a black man,
by four white Los Angeles police officers in 1991. That incident also followed a
high-speed chase and was also captured on videotape.

LOAD-DATE: April 3, 1996

LANGUAGE: English

GRAPHIC: PHOTO, MAP; (1) Color Photo From Agence France-Presse - A Riverside
County sheriff's deputy (left) hits a Mexican immigrant with his nightstick
Monday after a high-speed chase in Southern California. TV cameras videotaped
the incident. (2) Map From Knight-Ridder Tribune / DAVID ARBANAS - Videotaped
Police Beating A videotape shows two California sheriff's deputies clubbing a
Mexican man and woman suspected of illegally crossing the border. Map of
southern California showing: 1. Temecula: Deputies beging chasing pickup truck
carrying 21 people 2. Interstate 15: Truck driver dodges Border Patrol 3. I-605
interchange: Truck pulls over; passengers scatter; deputies videotaped beating
driver, female passenger. SOURCES: KCAL, news reports

                  Copyright 1996 St. Louis Post-Dispatch, Inc.


                              62 of 308 DOCUMENTS

                       St. Louis Post-Dispatch (Missouri)

                  April 3, 1996, Wednesday, THREE STAR Edition

FBI SEEKS ANSWERS IN BEATING OF 2 SUSPECTS; ILLEGAL IMMIGRANTS CAUGHT AFTER
CHASE

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 1A

LENGTH: 894 words

DATELINE: LOS ANGELES


The FBI opened a civil rights investigation Tuesday into the videotaped clubbing
of two illegal immigrants.

Meanwhile, the Mexican government condemned the beating as a "flagrant
violation" of the rights of its citizens.

Sheriff's deputies clubbed the suspects Monday after chasing a battered pickup
crammed with people suspected of sneaking across the border. Television news
helicopters captured the beating on video in broad daylight.

During the chase, the pickup reached speeds of 100 mph, its shabby camper top
disintegrating in the wind to reveal the people crammed inside.

"People inside were throwing things at officers in the chase and at other cars,
hitting some of them," Sgt. Mark Lohman of the Riverside County Sheriff's
Department said Tuesday.

The truck finally stopped on the side of the freeway, and the passengers in back
ran away.

One deputy, holding his baton two-handed like a baseball bat, was videotaped
clubbing the driver on the back and shoulders, even as the driver fell face down
on the ground.

When a woman got out of the cab, the same deputy beat her in the back with the
baton and then grabbed her by the hair and pulled her to the ground. At least
one other deputy struck her with his baton.

Neither person, both Mexicans, appeared to resist or attempt to get away from
the officers.

Andrian Flores Martinez, 26, the driver, had bruises and a possible broken
elbow, authorities said. He was jailed. Leticia Gonzalez, 33, who suffered
bruises on her face and arms, was released Tuesday to the custody of her
attorney, David Ross.

Police, who initially said the truck was carrying 21 people, said Tuesday that
17, besides the couple in the cab, were in the custody of the Immigration and
Naturalization Service pending deportation.

The tape of the beatings was shown repeatedly on television in Mexico and the
United States, provoking an outcry from human rights groups.

Lee Douglas, a Justice Department spokeswoman, said the FBI would focus on
possible criminal civil rights violations. The investigation will be conducted
jointly with local authorities.

When asked for President Bill Clinton's reaction, Mike McCurry, the White House
press secretary, said, "He's concerned. We are asking the Justice Department to
keep us apprised of any effort they make to monitor the situation."

California Gov. Pete Wilson said, "From the videotape, it certainly seems that
excessive force was used."

The Riverside County Sheriff's Department identified the deputies Tuesday as
Tracy Watson and Kurtis Franklin and said both were suspended without pay.
Franklin has been with the department for 20 years, and Watson for five.

"I'm not going to stand up here and say that there was no force used, because
you would laugh me out of the room," Lohman said in a news conference. "We saw
it, we saw the same videotape that everyone's seen, and we're embarrassed."

Both Los Angeles and Riverside authorities were investigating. The clubbing
happened in South El Monte in Los Angeles County, but the pursuit began in
Riverside County.

Law enforcement officials first spotted the pickup on a side road commonly used
to evade an immigration agency checkpoint about 60 miles north of the Mexican
border. When Border Patrol agents began chasing them, police said, the
passengers lobbed beer cans at them.

The Border Patrol then backed off and called for assistance from the Riverside
County Sheriff's Department, which picked up the pursuit.

As the chase stretched over more than 70 miles of expressway at speeds reaching
100 mph, the pickup's camper top flew off. Twice during the chase, the pickup
rammed other cars apparently to divert attention, police said. Mexican Statement

Mexico's Department of Foreign Relations said it had "expressed its indignation"
and "energetically condemned this flagrant violation of the human rights of its
nationals" in a letter to the State Department.

The letter said the beating demonstrated the need to "eradicate discriminatory
attitudes that lead to acts of institutional violence."

It also demanded an investigation by the U.S. Justice Department, saying the
Mexican government "will closely follow the development of this investigation
until its satisfactory conclusion."

Immigrant rights and civil liberties organizations gathered Tuesday at the
Federal Building in Los Angeles, chanting, "Justicia!"

"What we have here is an ugly reminder of the violent hate crimes that several
police officers engage in to manifest their hatred toward minorities," Hector
Brolo, national president of the Mexican American Political Association, told
about two dozen protesters. The two sheriff's deputies are white.

"We will not rest until these people are arrested. I'm firmly convinced this was
racially motivated."

'tWnAti

The incident brought back memories of the beating of Rodney King, a black man,
by four white Los Angeles police officers in 1991. That incident also followed a
high-speed chase and was also captured on videotape.

The officers were cleared by a jury in 1992, leading to rioting in Los Angeles,
but two of them were later convicted on federal civil rights charges and
sentenced to prison.

"It looks like Rodney King all over again," said Ramona Ripston, executive
director of Los Angeles office of the American Civil Liberties Union.

LOAD-DATE: April 3, 1996

LANGUAGE: English

GRAPHIC: PHOTO, MAP; (1) Color Photo From Agence France-Presse - A Riverside
County sheriff's deputy (left) hits a Mexican immigrant with his nightstick
Monday after a high-speed chase in Southern California. TV cameras videotaped
the incident. (2) Map From Knight-Ridder Tribune / DAVID ARBANAS - Videotaped
Police Beating A videotape shows two California sheriff's deputies clubbing a
Mexican man and woman suspected of illegally crossing the border. Map of
southern California showing: 1. Temecula: Deputies beging chasing pickup truck
carrying 21 people 2. Interstate 15: Truck driver dodges Border Patrol 3. I-605
interchange: Truck pulls over; passengers scatter; deputies videotaped beating
driver, female passenger. SOURCES: KCAL, news reports

                  Copyright 1996 St. Louis Post-Dispatch, Inc.


                              63 of 308 DOCUMENTS

                       St. Louis Post-Dispatch (Missouri)

                 April 7, 1996, Sunday, FIVE STAR LIFT Edition

7 DIE WHEN TRUCK OVERTURNS NEAR MEXICAN BORDER; 18 SUSPECTED ILLEGAL IMMIGRANTS
HURT; AGENTS WERE FOLLOWING STOLEN VEHICLE

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 6A

LENGTH: 341 words

DATELINE: LOS ANGELES


A stolen truck loaded with suspected illegal immigrants overturned and crashed
on a southern California road Saturday, killing seven passengers and injuring
18, officials said.

The pickup truck was being followed by U.S. Border Patrol agents when the driver
suddenly accelerated and lost control near the town of Temecula, about 60 miles
north of the U.S.-Mexican border.

Ron Henley, a spokesman for the Border Patrol, said the truck was traveling on a
route used by smugglers to bypass the agency's border checkpoint.

"The agents began to follow the truck and the vehicle accelerated to an extreme
rate of speed, leaving the agents behind," Henley said. When the agents came
over the next hill, they saw the truck upside down in the ditch, with bodies
"thrown all over the place."

Henley said the vehicle, a stolen 1989 GMC pickup truck, had Hawaiian license
plates.

Officials stressed the border patrol agents were not pursuing the truck at the
time of the accident, at 5:28 a.m.

"They were just following behind the vehicle, no lights or sirens on," said
Julie Page, a spokeswoman with the California Highway Patrol said.

In recent years, a series of deadly crashes prompted the Border Patrol to adopt
stricter rules of pursuit.

Page said the truck was reported stolen in February in San Diego County. All of
the occupants were men.

The injured passengers were taken to local hospitals, and their condition was
not immediately known. Henley said he did not know if the driver of the vehicle
was among the fatalities.

The crash was the second major incident in southern California in less than a
week involving suspected illegal immigrants.

A police pursuit last Monday of a pickup truck filled with more than 20 Mexicans
ended with two of the people being beaten by Riverside County sheriff's deputies
- an incident captured on videotape by a news helicopter hovering overhead.

The two deputies have been suspended from duty while federal and local
authorities investigate possible criminal charges against them.

LOAD-DATE: April 7, 1996

LANGUAGE: English

GRAPHIC: PHOTO; Photo by AP - Rescue workers remove the dead and injured from
the wreckage of a pickup that overturned in southern California on Saturday.

                  Copyright 1996 St. Louis Post-Dispatch, Inc.


                              64 of 308 DOCUMENTS

                       St. Louis Post-Dispatch (Missouri)

                   April 7, 1996, Sunday, THREE STAR Edition

'RENTED' CHILDREN AID FLIGHT; 'FAMILY' HELPS IMMIGRANTS AVOID BORDER DETENTION

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 5A

LENGTH: 597 words

DATELINE: BROWNSVILLE, TEXAS


Illegal immigrants are borrowing children as "passports" into the United States,
taking advantage of a U.S. policy against incarcerating families caught crossing
the border.

"It's a scam," said Gus Garcia, assistant chief of the Border Patrol's Rio
Grande Valley sector. "We found out that some of the aliens were using minor
children to ensure their release."

Under a policy in effect for more than a decade, illegal immigrants caught
crossing the border with a minor son or daughter are released into the United
States rather than held at an Immigration and Naturalization Service detention
center.

The family provides an address and phone number where they can be reached so
they can be notified of a court hearing. But many just give false information -
and disappear.

Russ Bergeron, an immigration agency spokesman in Washington, said the agency
believes that it is inappropriate to keep families, particularly children and
their mothers, at a detention compound.

The facilities are surrounded by barbed wire and patrolled by guards. Detainees
wear bright orange uniforms and sleep in dormitories; men and women are kept
separate. Immigrants charged with crimes also are held there.

In the last five months, immigrants crossing the Texas border have admi tted
borrowing children, immigration and Border Patrol agents said.

Agents noticed the problem in December, when the number of families caught
crossing into the United States in the Brownsville area skyrocketed to 88 in
less than one month, from the usual 10 to 15 a month, Garcia said.

Policy Change

"When you start releasing families, word gets out that all you've got to do is
bring someone with you, a juvenile or child, to get released," he said. "People
realized that we were not doing anything with them."

In response, the immigration agency in late December began detaining families at
its holding center outside Brownsville. But the old policy went back into effect
two weeks ago when family crossings ground to a halt, presumably because word
got out about the change in policy.

During the temporary change, about 100 children, ranging in age from a few
months to 17 years, were housed with their mothers at the detention center, said
Roel Delgado, who oversees the facility. Most were from Central America.

Of those detained, about 15 had accompanied someone other than their parents,
Delgado said. In some cases, he said, their parents already lived in the United
States; they had let other adults "rent" the children.

Immigrant advocates who oppose the detention of families said the small number
of children found accompanying people other than their parents showed that the
problem was not widespread.

A Minor Problem

"They've tried to rationalize the detention of families by saying they're using
children, but there's no data to suggest that it's a real major problem," said
Jonathan Jones, coordinator of the Rio Grande Valley's Refugee-Immigrants Rights
Coalition.

Garcia said agents have no way of knowing how many children have been "rented"
to cross the border. An investigation is under way.

At a homeless shelter in Brownsville, several recent immigrants said they had
heard of the scam. "It's everywhere, all over," said a Honduran who identified
himself only as Alexis. "You tell the kids, 'You're going to say you're my
family so when we cross they won't stop us.' It's a way out for them, a way out
of the country."

If the immigration agency sees another huge increase of families coming across,
it will start detaining them again, Bergeron said.

LOAD-DATE: April 7, 1996

LANGUAGE: English

GRAPHIC: PHOTO; Photo by AP - Detainees pass through gates into the Immigration
and Naturalization holding center near Port Isabel, Texas, for transfer back to
Mexico. Recently, illegal immigrants have been borrowing children to get into
the United States without being detained.

                  Copyright 1996 St. Louis Post-Dispatch, Inc.


                              65 of 308 DOCUMENTS

                       St. Louis Post-Dispatch (Missouri)

               April 17, 1996, Wednesday, FIVE STAR LIFT Edition

IMMIGRATION BILL FALLS TO DISPUTES IN SENATE

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 6A

LENGTH: 416 words

DATELINE: WASHINGTON


A bill to crack down on illegal immigration fell victim to election-year
politics Tuesday, pulled from the Senate floor amid wrangling over Democrats'
attempts to force votes to protect Social Security and increase the minimum
wage.

Although Senate Majority Leader Bob Dole withdrew the bill, the presumptive
Republican presidential candidate said that Democrats were to blame. The
immigration measure was being "held hostage" by their demands for votes on the
two other issues, he said.

"Illegal immigration, wherever you go, illegal immigration is a big issue," said
Dole, R-Kan. "And if we're going to be frustrated by efforts on the other side
to hold the bill hostage, that's up to them. They can make it happen, and they
can explain that to the voters in November."

But Senate Minority Leader Thomas Daschle, D-S.D., retorted: "We didn't pull the
bill. We could be on that bill right now. We could be taking up amendments right
now."

Under time frames agreed to by the Democrats, he said, the Senate could have
finished the bill by late Tuesday.

"So don't let anybody be misled," Daschle said. "We're not holding this bill
hostage. We didn't pull it down."

When Dole was asked if he would bring the bill back to the floor later, he told
reporters: "If they want to hold it hostage to every little thing, probably
not."

Despite the stalemate, both Republicans and Democrats agreed they need to act to
curtail illegal immigration.

The Social Security amendment, offered by Sen. Byron Dorgan, D-N.D., would erect
a protective "firewall" around that system should Congress pass a balanced
budget amendment to the Constitution. Because of procedural rules, such a change
could not be made to the balanced budget amendment itself, Dorgan said.

But Dole saw such a vote as a Democratic way "to help protect some of those who
voted wrong on the balanced budget amendment."

Sen. Edward M. Kennedy, D-Mass., has been pushing for the Senate to vote on a
90-cent increase in the minimum wage - from $ 4.25 to $ 5.15 - over two years,
which President Bill Clinton requested last year.

Off the Senate floor, the partisan rhetoric continued.

"What's wrong, Bob Dole?" Kennedy asked tauntingly just outside the chamber,
speaking to reporters. "What's wrong? You supported raising the minimum wage
before."

Democrats pressed for a minimum wage vote in the House as well, but Tony
Blankley, House Speaker Newt Gingrich's spokesman, was dismissive. "It's bad
policy," he said.

LOAD-DATE: April 17, 1996

LANGUAGE: English

                  Copyright 1996 St. Louis Post-Dispatch, Inc.


                              66 of 308 DOCUMENTS

                       St. Louis Post-Dispatch (Missouri)

                April 30, 1996, Tuesday, FIVE STAR LIFT Edition

BRUTALITY CHARGES SMEAR POLICE

BYLINE: David Horowitz

SECTION: EDITORIAL; Pg. 11B

LENGTH: 815 words

COMMENTARY COLUMN


Once again we are in the throes of a racial melodrama, this time over the
beating of two illegal immigrants at the end of a high-speed chase in Riverside,
Calif. As in the Rodney King case, the incident is ambiguous in its political
meaning and - absent the big public fuss - minor in its consequences. (Those who
think this callous should reflect on the parallel incident that took place on
the other side of the border a week earlier, when fleeing suspects were shot in
the back by Mexican police.)

Even the critics refer to both incidents as overreactions and unnecessary uses
of force, conceding that force could have been necessary and that the actions
were in response to provocations. In the Rodney King case, two black suspects in
the car with King were not beaten at all because unlike King they surrendered
peacefully. In the Riverside incident, no legal immigrants and no innocent
bystanders were set upon. Nor did the police beat the suspects once they were
cuffed.

No one wants to see police unnecessarily beat people, even lawbreakers. But
there are other considerations that are no less consequential than questions of
police brutality. What are the consequences, for example, of the unnecessary
bashing of police officers, by guardians of the public conscience?

The Rodney King beating, converted into a video agit-prop campaign by the
nation's media, created a lynch-mob hysteria toward the Los Angeles Police
Department and helped to stoke the fires of a $ 16 billion riot in Los Angeles.
This conflagration resulted in hundreds of casualties and 58 deaths - many of
them racially motivated beatings and killings of non-blacks, justified by the
radical subculture as "pay-back"

Even if the present outcries do not lead to a riot, the consequences of
persistent attacks on police can be serious, particularly as they affect force
morale. The Rodney King affair, lest we forget, was followed by the Mark Fuhrman
affair. Even though Fuhrman committed no indictable act and in fact has been
exonerated by an intense post-trial investigation of any misconduct, he lives in
public infamy as Johnnie Cochran's "genocidal racist." He has been convicted as
effectively as if he had stood trial in a court of law, his career destroyed by
having been involved in a famous arrest.

Like captors of Rodney King and the Riverside sheriffs, his case is a warning to
other law-enforcement officials: Arrest a criminal and you may find yourself on
trial - in Furhman's case, not even for excessive use of force, but for words he
uttered 10 years before.

The response of law-enforcement officials to this kind of threat is not the
subject of current discussions. But it ought to be. The police have responded by
being far more circumspect in their approach to criminals. After all, if you're
going to risk going on trial yourself when you arrest someone, why not think
twice before intervening? In fact, recent statistics reveal that the Los Angeles
Police Department made 100,000 fewer arrests this year than last, and not
because there was less crime.

If the LAPD and the Riverside Sheriff's departments were as vicious and out of
control as the hysteria would suggest, then one might be tempted to balance the
consequences of police-bashing with the nightmare of an army of rogue cops
patrolling our cities. But nothing could be further from the truth.

Images of police brutality among Riverside sheriffs and the Los Angeles Police
Department have, in fact, been wildly exaggerated both by the media and the
public. How wildly? Of a million service calls yearly about 10 or .001 percent
result in verdicts of excessive use of force.

Here are the statistics: The LAPD takes about a million calls a year from
citizens, makes roughly 150,000 arrests, and is charged with about 170
complaints of "excessive force" of which 10 or fewer are found to have merit.
The Los Angeles Sheriff's Department, according to a recently released official
report, received 970,000 calls for service last year, which resulted in 79
excessive-force suits, exactly nine of which were lost . The Riverside County
Sheriff's Department had 600,000 calls and 305 personnel complaints (including
excessive force) of which 28 were found to be valid.

Even if you multiplied the number of excessive-force cases by a factor of 100 to
take into account the fear of witnesses, the solidarity of police officers
protecting each other, etc., this is a marvelous record of civilized law
enforcement, which has received no public acknowledgment to date.

On the other hand, the broad smear of "police brutality" based on a few
spectacular cases has been used to tar an entire profession and has been bandied
about so freely as to become a household cliche. But the price is high and -
this is the grimmest irony of all - it is highest for minorities, who are the
primary victims of violent crime.

LOAD-DATE: April 30, 1996

LANGUAGE: English

GRAPHIC: GRAPHIC; Graphic/sketch of policeman in front of a target,

                  Copyright 1996 St. Louis Post-Dispatch, Inc.


                              67 of 308 DOCUMENTS

                       St. Louis Post-Dispatch (Missouri)

                 May 2, 1996, Thursday, FIVE STAR LIFT Edition

SENATE VOTES TO REQUIRE WORKERS TO SHOW STRONGER PROOF OF ID

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 5A

LENGTH: 631 words

DATELINE: WASHINGTON


The Senate voted Wednesday to require job seekers to produce stronger proof of
identity and nationality, as senators inched closer toward adopting a bill to
crack down on illegal immigration.

Senators also adopted an amendment by Sen. Harry Reid, D-Nev., that would outlaw
female genital mutilation, which sponsors indicated is practiced by some
immigrant cultures in the United States. In addition, they voted to repeal a
provision of the recently signed anti-terrorism law that restricts the ability
of illegal aliens to enter the United States by claiming political asylum.

The Republican-sponsored bill also would beef up the Border Patrol, speed the
deportation of people attempting to enter the United States with counterfeit
documents and deny many health and welfare benefits to legal aliens. Senate
Majority Leader Bob Dole, R-Kan., said he hoped to complete action on the bill
today.

Under the proof of identity clause, national standards would be developed for
drivers licenses, birth certificates and other identification as a way of
combating the proliferation of phony documents used by illegal immigrants.

The bill would raise the standard of proof of eligibility for working in the
United States. It would do so by requiring the attorney general to establish
uniform standards for birth certificates and drivers licenses to make them
harder to forge. Employers use the documents to verify the identity and
nationality of job applicants.

Under existing law, 29 different documents - ranging from passports to picture
IDs - can be used by employers to prove to immigration agents that the person
they hired is "legal." By sharply limiting the number and type, the bill's
sponsors and immigration authorities hope that it will be more difficult to rely
on substandard IDs.

Critics complained that the bill would impose heavy burdens on U.S. businesses
and add to federal red tape. They also charged it could infringe on civil
liberties.

Sen. Spencer Abraham, R-Mich., said it amounted to "a Big Government intrusive
system. . . . It will not succeed but be very costly to small business and to
employees who'll be denied jobs."

But Sen. Edward Kennedy, D-Mass., called it "the most important vote we're going
to have on immigration. This is the heart and soul of the program, and if we
don't pass it, we're going to get false documents produced day in and day out"
for use by undocumented workers.

Sen. Paul Simon, D-Ill., said removing the clause would be akin to "trying to
eat steak without teeth."

Reid initially wanted to make the threat of female genital mutilation a basis
for a woman to seek asylum in this country. But he was thwarted by the bill's
sponsors, who feared this would open a flood of immigration.

The painful ritual, often performed without anesthesia by medically untrained
practitioners, has been imported to the United States in recent years by
immigrants from Africa and the Middle East. The amendment sets penalties of up
to five years in prison and fines for those who perform genital mutilation on
girls.

By a 51-49 vote, the Senate also adopted an amendment to repeal a provision of
the anti-terrorism bill that cracks down on asylum seekers with false documents
or no documents. That provision and a similar one in the immigration bill would
have allowed officers at U.S. ports of entry to evaluate the asylum claims of
illegal immigrants and turn them back if they failed to demonstrate a credible
fear of persecution in their home countries.

The amendment essentially preserves current law, which allows such claimants a
lengthy process of judicial review. But the measure also gives the attorney
general special authority to summarily exclude illegal immigrants in situations
of extraordinary migration.

LOAD-DATE: May 2, 1996

LANGUAGE: English

                  Copyright 1996 St. Louis Post-Dispatch, Inc.


                              68 of 308 DOCUMENTS

                       St. Louis Post-Dispatch (Missouri)

                  May 5, 1996, Sunday, FIVE STAR LIFT Edition

CABINET HEADS FOR TALKS WITH MEXICO; DRUG TRAFFIC, IMMIGRATION, HUMAN RIGHTS ON
AGENDA

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 3A

LENGTH: 305 words

DATELINE: MEXICO CITY


President Bill Clinton's Cabinet takes a spring break this week - traveling to
Mexico for high-level talks aimed at further improving relations between the two
nations.

In recent weeks, Mexico has extradited its citizens to the United States for the
first time and has begun to work more closely with the American military. U.S.
officials said both measures could be critical in fighting drug trafficking.

The Clinton administration also goes into the two-day meeting with praise for
President Ernesto Zedillo's anti-inflation policies, which have proved
controversial as Mexico grapples with its worst recession in six decades.

Led by Secretary of State Warren Christopher, two-thirds of Clinton's Cabinet is
to fly to Mexico City for the annual meeting.

But in a reflection of the often-contentious relations between the neighbors,
the U.S. delegation arrives in the midst of controversies over immigration and
the U.S. Drug Enforcement Administration.

Mexican officials are especially anxious to defuse public outrage over a string
of incidents in California involving illegal immigrants - particularly the
televised beating of two Mexicans by Riverside County, Calif., sheriffs'
deputies.

And the U.S. Congress has overwhelmingly passed legislation to keep illegal
immigrants out - and to make life more difficult for those who have already
arrived.

"Our objective (in the meetings) would be a mechanism . . . through which we
could count on increased protection for the human rights of undocumented
workers," a senior Mexican official said in an interview, speaking on condition
of anonymity.

The meetings, starting Monday, are expected to draw the broadest participation
ever from a U.S. government, with everyone from the U.S. anti-drug czar to the
agriculture secretary attending, officials said.

LOAD-DATE: May 6, 1996

LANGUAGE: English

                  Copyright 1996 St. Louis Post-Dispatch, Inc.


                              69 of 308 DOCUMENTS

                       St. Louis Post-Dispatch (Missouri)

                  May 12, 1996, Sunday, FIVE STAR LIFT Edition

A BALANCING ACT ON IMMIGRATION

SECTION: EDITORIAL; Pg. 2B

LENGTH: 412 words


Restrictions on illegal immigration passed by the Senate 97-3 recently should
help ease Americans' worries about people who enter the country without
permission. The wide margin the measure earned shows the power of such concerns
in an election year, and while most of the bill makes sense, a few provisions
raise concerns that should be met before the final version goes to the White
House.

The legislation calls for an increase in the number of border guards, nearly
doubling the force to 10,000 over the next few years. It also adds to the
penalties for smuggling aliens into the country and for providing fraudulent
documents. In addition, it sets out procedures to determine the best way for
employers to determine whether prospective employees have entered the country
legally. Further, the Senate limited the ability of both legal and illegal
immigrants to receive some government services, though it wisely refused to go
along with the overly harsh move by the House to deny schooling to the children
of illegal immigrants.

President Bill Clinton has said that including such a punitive measure in the
final bill would bring a veto. That stance is a proper defense of children whose
future should not be jeopardized because of illegal action by their parents.

Police groups had warned against turning large numbers of unsupervised children
loose on the street, where they were likely to get into trouble. In addition,
educators should not have to become immigration agents, ferreting out children
whose crime was trying to learn how to read and write.

Civil libertarians have raised justifiable concerns about procedures that
employers will use to verify whether their workers are legal immigrants. Pilot
programs in various states would be studied to determine which method works
best; eventually, standardized information would be entered into a nationwide
database that critics worry could lead to a national identification card.

The specter of Americans being forced to carry documentation papers to prove
their right to be here is troublesome. Wisely, the Senate split off the control
of illegal immigration from legislation dealing with legal immigration, which
will be left for another time. Now, the House and Senate must reconcile
conflicting provisions of their bills.

They should draw the fine line between protecting the integrity of America's
borders and respecting the rights of children and those who are living here
legally.

LOAD-DATE: May 12, 1996

LANGUAGE: English

TYPE: EDITORIAL

                  Copyright 1996 St. Louis Post-Dispatch, Inc.


                              70 of 308 DOCUMENTS

                       St. Louis Post-Dispatch (Missouri)

                  May 17, 1996, Friday, FIVE STAR LIFT Edition

LETTERS FROM THE PEOPLE

SECTION: EDITORIAL; Pg. 6B

LENGTH: 1222 words


Don't Educate Illegal Immigrants

No nation on Earth should be expected to educate children of illegal immigrants
at the expense of their own. Yet, that is happening every day in states such as
California, where drastic cuts in programs and large class sizes are destroying
their once-great schools.

The costs of extra tutors and specialists for the 80 different languages spoken
in the Los Angeles area are staggering. The taxpaying citizens are outraged that
the educational funds they are providing are being misused in this manner and
their own children are being shortchanged. Many are moving away, because there
is no relief in sight and they feel the situation is hopeless.

I disagree with the May 12 editorial, "A Balancing Act On Immigration," that the
House measure to deny schooling to children of illegals is overly harsh. The
cost is being borne by our own children. I would like to see Congress pass a law
requiring documentation by a certain date. All children in school now could
remain, but no new children whose parents are here illegally could enroll.

Word would travel fast that the benefits of sneaking into this country have been
reduced. Respect for our immigration law would increase. And our citizens could
see an end to the erosion of their children's educational opportunities.

Barbara J. Kalish

Rock Hill

Shakespeare-Speak

I am not sure the Post-Dispatch's reasoning is supportable in the May 11
editorial about William Shakespeare's being "butchered" in the new paraphrased
rendering being used in schools to make the bard's meaning clearer.

There is incomparable rhythmic poetry in the lines of Holy Scripture also; and
if applied to the Bible, your thinking would argue for exclusive use of the King
James translation and never issuing any modernized versions.

Idiomatic renderings are produced to encourage more people to read the Bible;
and the effect will likely be the same in the case of the works of Shakespeare,
especially with impressionable young minds in parallel editions permitting
appreciation of the original after sensing the meaning in the up-to-date
paraphrase.

How many readers today would contend with Chaucer in his style of writing of a
bygone era? Shakespeare will only become more difficult with passing time. The
original will remain a priceless treasure of the English language, but any
effort that points toward its appreciation should not be summarily written off
as cheapening.

Helen P. Booth Sunset Hills

Another Moral Evil

In William F. Woo's May 5 column, "Beyond Our Powers Of Comprehension," he
writes of the natural evils and the moral evils that exist in our world today.

The natural evil he wrote about was the tragic death of a young girl killed in a
car accident. The moral evil he wrote about were the atrocities produced by the
Nazi medicine and were at the pinnacle of respect in their communities.

I cannot help but compare this moral evil with the monstrous crime of abortion.
The killing of unborn children is also being carried out by respected people in
their communities. The full explanation of this moral evil lies beyond my
comprehension.

Woo ended his column reflecting on the children's song, "This Little Light of
Mine" and was thinking of brief candles that were extinguished too soon.

I, too, think of the brief candles that are being extinguished too soon - the
tiny lights of the millions of aborted children. Their lights were ignited at
the beginning of their life - conception - and were extinguished even before
they saw the light of day.

Marie E. Brown

Ferguson

Private Utility?

As the trustees of MSD meet to consider the Confluence St. Louis proposal to
convert MSD into a private utility, the distinction between the sanitary and
storm sewer functions of MSD should be emphasized. Collecting waste into
sanitary sewer lines and processing it is somewhat similar to the distribution
of electric, gas, water and phone services and therefore could possibly be
handled by a private utility with regulated rates.

The storm water responsibility of MSD transcends property and municipal
boundaries. Water flows downhill, and the direction and volume of storm water
can affect downstream properties. St. Louis County and cities routinely require
MSD approval of storm water plans for new construction before issuing permits.

In reviewing plans, MSD sometimes will require developers to correct storm water
problems at private expense that could be considered community responsibility
and therefore MSD's. Before deciding to consider transferring the storm water
approval process to a for-profit private company, Confluence, MSD and our
municipal governments have a responsibility to fully inform the public how their
storm water interests will be protected by a private utility that will try to
keep expenses low.

Donald U. Beimdiek

Brentwood

Frogs And Beer

I read with interest the April 25 article concerning the efforts of the Center
for Alcohol Advertisement to force Anheuser Busch to discontinue the ads
featuring the frogs. My children are ages 9 and 11 and we have enjoyed the
antics of the Budweiser frogs. They could not tell you the names of the Mighty
Morphin Power Rangers.

My daughter attended a soccer clinic the night before the article ran. At the
same time as the clinic, there was a junior soccer league meeting attended by
about 50 children under the age of 10. Each child wore a T-shirt with the name
of the organization across the back and the Busch beer logo on the front.

Why is it OK to accept financial sponsorship for a children's soccer team and
not OK for a business to advertise in a clever way to attract people to buy its
product?

I have friends whose children watch the Mighty Morphin Power Rangers and,
believe me, that program is anything but a positive influence. The kids are
always kicking each other and doing "karate" on each other. I truly believe that
the program encourages violent resolution to problems. I'm sure, though, that it
has helped the martial arts education industry.

As a mother and an adult who enjoys a beer, I try to teach my children the
dangers of abuse of anything in life - whether it's drugs and alcohol or playing
too much Barbie. We don't wear clothes that advertise any food or beverage. We
choose not to be billboards.

A company like Anheuser Busch has the right to advertise and compete in this
country. We parents have a responsibility to educate our children and keep the
doors of communication open.

Linda Dreiling

Maryland Heights

If we want to make "Bud" wiser about drinking beer as a teen-ager, it's not the
three frogs on a lily pad that we should be concerned about. Start looking into
the child's experiences growing up and you will see beer at Khoury League games,
family picnics, graduations, camping trips, barbeques, hockey games, baseball
games, football games and wedding receptions.

I bet there are a lot of dads who ask their son to bring them a beer while
they're mowing the grass or watching TV.

The answer is to stress being a responsible adult and drinker. Make the laws
tougher if alcohol is abused. If DWI laws were so strict, maybe everyone would
think before they drink too much. The punishment has to be overwhelming or why
not drink?

Elaine M. Kurtz

Florissant

LOAD-DATE: May 17, 1996

LANGUAGE: English

GRAPHIC: GRAPHIC; Graphic/sketch of William Shakespeare

TYPE: LETTERS

                  Copyright 1996 St. Louis Post-Dispatch, Inc.


                              71 of 308 DOCUMENTS

                       St. Louis Post-Dispatch (Missouri)

                 June 11, 1996, Tuesday, FIVE STAR LIFT Edition

BRIEFS

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 5A

LENGTH: 687 words

BRIEFS/NATION/WORLD COLUMN


WASHINGTON

Senators Oppose Immigration Measure

Forty-seven senators joined Monday in opposing a bill that would permit states
to keep illegal immigrant children out of public schools.

In a letter to Sen. Orrin G. Hatch, R-Utah, chairman of the Senate Judiciary
Committee, the senators called the idea "ill-advised" and said it would do
nothing to stop illegal immigration.

"The 'job magnet,' not education, drives illegal immigration," said the letter
signed by 42 Democrats and five Republicans. "Giving authority to the states to
expel children from public schools will not deter illegal immigration but will
lead to a range of serious problems if these innocent children are out of school
and on the streets."

AP

WASHINGTON

Students With Disabilities Bill Advances

The House passed a bill Monday to extend and revise the federal government's
program to help states educate children with learning and physical disabilities.

The bill would change the formula for distributing federal funds to the states
from one based on the number of children with disabilities in a state to one
based on a state's total school-age population.

It would also give states more flexibility to deal with students with
disabilities who cause discipline problems, allowing expulsion in extreme cases.
Current law limits suspensions of disabled students to 10 days, or 45 days if a
gun is involved. Rep. William Goodling, R-Penn., said the bill would give
teachers more freedom and emphasize basic education.

Reuters

ALASKA

Aleutians Shaken, But Damage Light

A powerful aftershock to an earthquake off Alaska's remote western Aleutian
islands shook the archipelago Monday but caused no major damage, officials said.

The aftershock struck at 10:24 a.m. (St. Louis time) about 40 miles southwest of
the island of Adak and measured 7.2 on the Richter scale, said Waverly Person of
the National Earthquake Information Center in Golden, Colo.

The tremor came less than 12 hours after an earthquake measuring 7.9 on the
Richter scale that struck about 60 miles southwest of Adak and caused no damage.

Reuters

WASHINGTON

Food Aid For North Korea Gets Backing

The State Department, brushing aside criticism from Sen. Bob Dole, said North
Korea deserves unconditional U.S. food aid because of the "profoundly serious"
humanitarian crisis under way there.

"I think we can support food assistance to North Korea and at the same time
protect our security interests that are so evident in North Korea," spokesman
Nicholas Burns said Monday. On Friday, U.S. officials disclosed they are
planning $ 6 million in aid to North Korea to help ease widespread shortages.

Dole, the expected Republican presidential nominee, accused President Bill
Clinton of "rewarding enemies of the United States," and he called North Korea
"Asia's most dangerous regime." He said any food aid to the North should be
linked to North Korean concessions.

AP

WORLD

ISRAEL

Peres Angered By Hezbollah Ambush

Outgoing Prime Minister Shimon Peres warned pro-Iranian guerrillas Monday
against further attacks in southern Lebanon after they killed five Israeli
soldiers in an ambush.

"Israel will respond in the manner it deems appropriate, at the right time and
place, and warns Hezbollah not to continue to heat up the area at the expense of
Lebanese civilians," Peres said in a statement.

The Hezbollah ambush, near the villages of Dabshe and Ali Taher in a border
enclave occupied by Israel, also wounded eight soldiers, three of them
seriously.

The 20-minute exchange of fire marked the deadliest violence since Israel's air
and artillery barrage of southern Lebanon in April, a response to Hezbollah's
rocket attacks on northern Israel. At least 165 people, mostly Lebanese
civilians, died in that operation.

Israeli forces initially responded Monday by shelling Shiite Muslim villages and
guerrilla infiltration trails near Nabatiyeh, which faces Israel's "security
zone." A Lebanese army sergeant was killed and a civilian man was wounded in the
shelling, Nabatiyeh police said.

Compiled from news services

LOAD-DATE: June 12, 1996

LANGUAGE: English

GRAPHIC: PHOTO; Photo From AP - Cooling Off Marie Payne, 19, a member of the Big
Lake, Alaska, volunteer fire department, puts out a hot spot Monday at a home in
Big Lake. Cool, damp weather aided firefighters.

                  Copyright 1996 St. Louis Post-Dispatch, Inc.


                              72 of 308 DOCUMENTS

                       St. Louis Post-Dispatch (Missouri)

                 June 11, 1996, Tuesday, FIVE STAR LIFT Edition

CLINTON TOUTS RECORD ON CRIME ALONG BORDER

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 5A

LENGTH: 183 words

DATELINE: SAN DIEGO


President Bill Clinton took credit Monday for sharply cutting crime and illegal
immigration along the U.S.-Mexican border and said the community policing
program he enacted despite opposition from Bob Dole was a smashing success.

"We have begun to turn border communities under siege into communities where law
and order and safety and security are once again the order of the day," Clinton
said outside San Diego police headquarters as he courted California voters.

Clinton's appearance was an official presidential event. But Clinton sounded
every bit the candidate as he focused on the very issues Dole highlighted when
he visited the same community just a week ago.

Dole, the Republican presidential candidate, used part of his visit to argue
that Clinton was not doing enough to police the borders and prosecute drug
smugglers.

Without mentioning Dole, Clinton said his administration had replaced political
posturing about illegal immigration with a series of effective actions, from
adding border patrol agents to closer coordination with local law enforcement
officials.

LOAD-DATE: June 12, 1996

LANGUAGE: English

                  Copyright 1996 St. Louis Post-Dispatch, Inc.


                              73 of 308 DOCUMENTS

                       St. Louis Post-Dispatch (Missouri)

                   June 11, 1996, Tuesday, THREE STAR Edition

BRIEFS

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 5A

LENGTH: 669 words

BRIEFS/NATION/WORLD COLUMN


WASHINGTON

Senators Oppose Immigration Measure

Forty-seven senators joined Monday in opposing a bill that would permit states
to keep illegal immigrant children out of public schools.

In a letter to Sen. Orrin G. Hatch, R-Utah, chairman of the Senate Judiciary
Committee, the senators called the idea "ill-advised" and said it would do
nothing to stop illegal immigration.

"The 'job magnet,' not education drives illegal immigration," said the letter
signed by 42 Democrats and five Republicans. "Giving authority to the states to
expel children from public schools will not deter illegal immigration, but will
lead to a range of serious problems if these innocent children are out of school
and on the streets."

The measure, introduced by Rep. Elton Gallegly, R-Calif., is part of a
wide-ranging House bill designed primarily to crack down on illegal immigration.

AP

WASHINGTON

Students With Disabilities Bill Advances

The House passed a bill Monday to extend and revise the federal government's
program to help states educate children with learning and physical disabilities.

The bill would change the formula for distributing federal funds to the states
from one based on the number of children with disabilities in a state to one
based on a state's total school age population.

It would also give states more flexibility to deal with students with
disabilities who cause discipline programs, allowing expulsion in extreme cases.
Current law limits suspensions of disabled students to 10 days, or 45 days if a
gun is involved. Rep. William Goodling, R-Penn., said the bill would give
teachers more freedom and emphasize basic education.

Reuters

ALASKA

Aleutians Shaken, But Damage Light

A powerful aftershock to an earthquake off Alaska's remote western Aleutian
islands shook the archipelago Monday but caused no major damage, officials said.

The aftershock struck at 10:24 a.m. (St. Louis time) about 40 miles southwest of
the island of Adak and measured 7.2 on the Richter scale, said Waverly Person of
the National Earthquake Information Center in Golden, Colo.

The quake caused minor damage such as falling ceiling tiles at the U.S. naval
air facility on Adak, home to about 500 military and civilian personnel, but
there were no reports of injuries.

The tremor came less than 12 hours after an earthquake measuring 7.9 on the
Richter scale that struck about 60 miles southwest of Adak and caused no damage.

Reuters

WASHINGTON

Food Aid For North Korea Gets Backing

The State Department, brushing aside criticism from Sen. Bob Dole, said North
Korea deserves unconditional U.S. food aid because of the "profoundly serious"
humanitarian crisis under way there.

"I think we can support food assistance to North Korea and at the same time
protect our security interests that are so evident in North Korea," spokesman
Nicholas Burns said Monday. On Friday, U.S. officials disclosed they are
planning $ 6 million in aid to North Korea to help ease widespread shortages.

Dole, the expected Republican presidential nominee, accused President Bill
Clinton of "rewarding enemies of the United States," and he called North Korea
"Asia's most dangerous regime." He said any food aid to the North should be
linked to North Korean concessions.

AP

WORLD

IRAQ

U.N. Missile Experts Begin Investigation

With one U.N. team busy dismantling a biological weapons plant, a second team
specializing in long-range missiles came to Iraq on Monday on a different
investigation.

Nikita Smedovic, leader of the 50 missile experts, did not comment on his
arrival in Baghdad, and the exact nature of the mission has not been divulged.

Iraq must convince U.N. inspectors it has destroyed all its weapons of mass
destruction before the U.N. Security Council will lift comprehensive sanctions
imposed to punish the country for its 1990 invasion of Kuwait.

One visiting U.N. team is working with Iraqi officials to destroy the Al-Hakam
biological weapons plant.

AP

LOAD-DATE: June 12, 1996

LANGUAGE: English

GRAPHIC: PHOTO; Photo From AP - Cooling Off Marie Payne, 19, a member of the Big
Lake, Alaska, volunteer fire department, puts out a hot spot Monday at a home in
Big Lake. Cool, damp weather aided firefighters.

                  Copyright 1996 St. Louis Post-Dispatch, Inc.


                              74 of 308 DOCUMENTS

                       St. Louis Post-Dispatch (Missouri)

                   June 23, 1996, Sunday, THREE STAR Edition

BISHOPS DENOUNCE IMMIGRATION BILL; CHURCH LEADERS FEAR IMPACT ON CHILDREN

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 3A

LENGTH: 497 words

DATELINE: PORTLAND, ORE.


Congress is using illegal immigrants as scapegoats for the nation's social and
economic ills, the nation's Roman Catholic bishops said Friday.

Both the Senate and House are considering wide-ranging legislation that would
restrict immigration.

The House earlier this week approved an amendment to a bill passed by the Senate
that would allow states to deny public education to illegal immigrants'
children. To pass Congress, the measure would have to be included in a final
bill worked out in a conference committee between the two houses.

Bishop Anthony Pilla, president of the National Conference of Catholic Bishops,
said, "There is a disregard for human life in this legislation, which is
inconsistent with the Gospel and which I find morally objectiona ble." The
bishops are holding their annual spring meeting in Portland.

The House immigration amendment was sponsored by Rep. Elton Gallegly, R-Calif.,
and got support earlier this week from Bob Dole, the probable Republican
presidential candidate.

President Bill Clinton has vowed to veto the bill if the amendment is not
withdrawn.

Bishop John Cummins, who chairs the Catholic Legal Immigration Network, said
recent developments gave the group no choice but to address the immigration
issue.

"I think the idea is, if kids are mistreated, families won't come, or they'll go
back to where they came from," Cummins said. "That's a heavy penalty to lay on
kids."

Two key Republicans in Congress also oppose the measure, which has the support
of many in their party. The two are Rep. Henry Hyde of Illinois, chairman of the
House Judiciary Committee, and Sen. Orrin Hatch of Utah, chairman of the Senate
Judiciary Committee.

In public, Hyde supports the measure, while Hatch is noncommittal. But in
private they are telling associates that the measure is bad policy because it
would throw thousands of children into the street.

"I don't like it," Hatch said in an interview this week. "I worry about the
children. On the other hand, there's a legitimate need to get tough on illegal
immigration. I hope we can find some middle ground in conference, but it ain't
going to be easy."

Hyde last week told the executive director of the Fraternal Order of Police, a
national police union that opposes the measure, that he would "oppose the
measure and vote against it," said the union official, James O. Pasco Jr. When
asked this week about his personal position, Hyde smiled and looked away without
commenting.

The ban is particularly popular in California, where Gov. Pete Wilson has been
an outspoken supporter. The state spends $ 1.8 billion a year to educate more
than 350,000 students who are illegal immigrants.

Dole renewed his call for the education ban this week at a campaign stop in
Southern California. He said the measure would allow California to put into
effect Proposition 187, the initiative that state voters approved two years ago
but which has since been stalled in the courts.

LOAD-DATE: June 24, 1996

LANGUAGE: English

                  Copyright 1996 St. Louis Post-Dispatch, Inc.


                              75 of 308 DOCUMENTS

                       St. Louis Post-Dispatch (Missouri)

                June 27, 1996, Thursday, FIVE STAR LIFT Edition

A FIGHTER AGAINST CHILDREN

SECTION: EDITORIAL; Pg. 6B

LENGTH: 361 words


Bob Dole, the likely GOP candidate for president, continues to play politics
with the lives of the children of illegal immigrants. Luckily, several key
Republicans who normally would be counted among his allies are refusing to go
along; that opposition, plus protests from the National Conference of Catholic
Bishops, should be enough to derail this ill-considered legislation once and for
all.

The effort in question would deny public education to the children of families
who have entered the country illegally. Supporters say the prospect of free
public schooling has been enough of a lure for immigrants that they risk
breaking the law to come here.

The House has approved the measure as an amendment to an immigration bill passed
earlier by the Senate, but a compromise acceptable to both houses must be worked
out before it can go to the White House. There, President Bill Clinton has
promised a veto.

That is one threat he definitely should carry out, if he has to. But if the
combined influence of Orrin Hatch in the Senate, Henry Hyde in the House, former
President George Bush, the Republican governors of Illinois, New York and Texas
and the Catholic bishops has any force, the move won't get that far. All of them
have gone against Mr. Dole and made clear that children should not be victims of
what may be a well-intentioned but still poorly designed campaign to limit
illegal immigration.

Teachers don't want to turn into immigration officers. Police don't want crowds
of kids thrown out of their classrooms onto the street.

Bishop John Cummins put the humanitarian argument best: "I think the idea is, if
kids are mistreated, families won't come, or they'll go back to where they came
from. That's a heavy penalty to lay on kids."

Mr. Dole doesn't think so. Last week, he stumped in vote-rich California, which
spends $ 1.8 billion a year to educate illegal immigrant children. Gov. Pete
Wilson, who has fought for an end to such spending, called Mr. Dole "a fighter
for California." The question voters must answ er is whether they want as
president a man who fights against the efforts of children to get the education
they need.

LOAD-DATE: June 27, 1996

LANGUAGE: English

TYPE: EDITORIAL

                  Copyright 1996 St. Louis Post-Dispatch, Inc.


                              76 of 308 DOCUMENTS

                       St. Louis Post-Dispatch (Missouri)

                  May 31, 1992, SUNDAY, LATE FIVE STAR Edition

ABUSE BY BORDER PATROL ALLEGED ILLEGAL ALIENS ARE KILLED, TORTURED, RAPED, ;
RIGHTS GROUP SAYS

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 11A

LENGTH: 372 words


WASHINGTON - U.S. border patrol agents kill, torture and rape illegal immigrants
with impunity, a human rights group charged Saturday.  ''Beatings, rough
physical treatment, and racially motivated verbal abuse are routine'' practices
of Immigration and Naturalization Service agents along the Mexican border,
Americas Watch said.  The Immigration Service, while admitting that abuses
occur, says they are isolated cases and denies any cover-ups.  ''We don't claim
that everybody in the INS is perfect,'' said spokesman Rich Kenney. But he said
the Americas Watch allegations of unchecked brutality were ''a gross
generalization.'' Americas Watch said: ''Even more serious abuses, including
unjustified shootings, torture and sexual abuse, occur. When they do,
investigations are almost invariably perfunctory, and the offending agents
escape punishment.'' Americas Watch, based in New York, said agency cover-ups
are frequent. And the response of President George Bush's administration to
complaints is ''as defensive and unyielding'' as that of the most abusive
governments in the world.  The report urges U.S. authorities to give a more
humane treatment to the thousands of Mexicans who every day attempt to cross
illegally into the United States.  The report says that since 1980, Immigration
Service agents have shot dozens of people on the 2,000-mile long border, killing
at least 11 and permanently disabling at least 10.  Last year in the region
around El Paso, Texas, the Border Patrol caught illegal entrants representing 75
nationalities.  Despite passage of the 1986 Immigration Reform and Control Act -
which ordered sanctions against employers who hire illegal aliens - millions of
illegal immigrants continue to find jobs in American restaurant kitchens,
garment factories, tomato fields, parking garages and taxicabs, or pushing
brooms and performing a number of other menial tasks. The number of people
caught at the border dropped sharply from 1986 to 1989 as the new law took
effect. But apprehensions have increased sharply in the past two years.
According to public opinion polls, two-thirds of Americans now believe that the
United States is being overrun and overburdened by illegal immigrants.

LOAD-DATE: October 11, 1993

LANGUAGE: English

                  Copyright 1992 St. Louis Post-Dispatch, Inc.


                              77 of 308 DOCUMENTS

                       St. Louis Post-Dispatch (Missouri)

                    May 31, 1992, SUNDAY, THREE STAR Edition

ORIGINS, WORK OF IMMIGRANTS MISUNDERSTOOD

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 11C

LENGTH: 450 words


WASHINGTON - The 1980s witnessed the largest wave of immigration to the
UnitedStates this century.  Though it is difficult to separate the impact of
illegal immigration from recent arrivals who are in the United States legally,
recent research indicates that several myths have arisen about both groups: Myth
1: Nearly all illegal immigrants are Mexicans. Mexicans make up no more than 55
percent of the illegals in the United States. The balance come from all points
on the globe, and most of them enter the country legally but overstay their
visas.  Myth 2: People who cross the border illegally stay permanently. More
than 3 million people illegally cross the U.S.-Mexican border each year, but
experts say only 200,000 to 300,000 become permanent inhabitants.  Myth 3:
Illegal immigrants take jobs from native-born workers and legal immigrants.
Illegal immigrants do take unskilled jobs from Americans, mostly minorities and
legal immigrants in border states such as California and Texas.  Illegals make
up as much as 6 percent of the U.S. labor force and undoubtedly push wages - and
hence consumer prices - downward.  At the same time, immigrants, both legal and
illegal, start businesses, consume goods and services and, in so doing, create
jobs and help the U.S.  economy grow.  Myth 4: Most illegal immigrants work in
agriculture, picking fruits and vegetables. Researchers estimate that only 9
percent of undocumented workers are pickers. Significantly larger numbers work
in the service sector (hotels, restaurants, etc.), in industry and as domestic
helpers. Myth 5: Illegal immigrants depend heavily on welfare and other social
services. Refugees, who are here legally and get the most public sympathy, tend
to rely most heavily on welfare and Medicaid. Illegal immigrants are barred from
most forms of government assistance and tend to avoid all contact with public
officials.  Myth 6: Recent arrivals are being assimilated more slowly than
previous waves of newcomers. Today's immigrants are often thought of as
uneducated, unwilling to learn English and reluctant to become fully
assimilated.  Research tells a different story.  According to 1980 census data,
of the immigrants who entered the United States from 1975 to 1980, almost 24
percent had completed four or more years of college. Only 16 percent of the
U.S.-born population had an equivalent level of education. And contrary to
popular beliefs, most second- and third-generation Hispanics are doing fine,
about on a par with the record of Italian-Americans.  Myth 7: U.S. immigration
policy is becoming more restrictive. In fact, the 1990 Immigration Act expanded
immigration by 40 percent above previous levels.

LOAD-DATE: October 11, 1993

LANGUAGE: English

                  Copyright 1992 St. Louis Post-Dispatch, Inc.


                              78 of 308 DOCUMENTS

                       St. Louis Post-Dispatch (Missouri)

                   June 23, 1992, TUESDAY, THREE STAR Edition

OTHER COURT ACTION

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 10B

LENGTH: 516 words


In other Supreme Court action Monday: (REST) Capital punishment: The court
upheld a Louisiana killer's death sentence as it told federal judges nationwide
to be stingy in granting hearings to state prison inmates whose initial round of
federal court appeals has failed.  Voting 6-3, the justices said such inmates
are not entitled to federal court hearings unless they can show ''by clear and
convincing evidence that but for a constitutional error, no reasonable juror
would have found (the defendant) eligible for the death penalty under the
applicable state law.'' Mental competency: The court ruled the rights of
criminal defendants are not violated by requiring them to bear the burden of
proving they are incompetent to stand trial.  The 7-2 decision upheld the
conviction of a California death row inmate who said prosecutors should have had
the burden of proving he was mentally competent to stand trial for three 1984
murders.  Illegal aliens: The court agreed to decide whether lower federal
courts improperly extended the deadline for illegal aliens seeking amnesty to
remain in the United States.  The court will hear an appeal from the Bush
administration that could affect the fates of more than 300,000 illegal
immigrants.  U.S. banks abroad: The court left intact a ruling that U.S. banks
with branch offices overseas must pay depositors when foreign governments freeze
those accounts.  Confronting witnesses: The court turned down an invitation to
rule that criminal defendants have no right to confront witnesses who testify
against them at pretrial hearings. The court, without comment, let stand a
ruling that said a pretrial hearing held for two Michigan men violated their
rights because a masked informer testified against them. The men were later
convicted on cocaine-related charges.  John Lennon files: The court gave a
preliminary victory to a California history professor in a nine-year legal fight
to obtain secret FBI files on the late John Lennon of the Beatles.  The court,
over one dissenting vote, turned down an FBI appeal aimed at killing the 1983
lawsuit seeking the bureau's Lennon files.  Jimmy Hoffa files: The court let
stand a ruling that denied an appeal by a researcher seeking uncensored
confidential records of government wiretapping of the missing labor leader Jimmy
Hoffa in the 1960s.  Iran-Contra conviction: The court let stand the tax-evasion
conviction of Thomas Clines, the only Iran-Contra scandal figure to go to
prison. The conviction of Clines, an arms middleman and retired CIA officer,
grew out of the profits he made from arms deals for the Nicaraguan Contras.
Illinois death row appeal: The court turned down an appeal by an Illinois death
row inmate, Hernando Williams, who was convicted of the murder in 1978 of a
woman he abducted from the parking lot of the Chicago-area hospital where she
worked. The court let stand rulings that Williams received a fair trial and
proper sentence.  Indian lands: The court let stand a ruling that Indian tribes
may tax railroad property on their reservations.  The Associated Press

LOAD-DATE: October 11, 1993

LANGUAGE: English

                  Copyright 1992 St. Louis Post-Dispatch, Inc.


                              79 of 308 DOCUMENTS

                       St. Louis Post-Dispatch (Missouri)

                 September 3, 1992, THURSDAY, FIVE STAR Edition

IMMIGRATION: A DELICATE BALANCE U.S. MUST BE SELECTIVE TO PROTECT SOCIETY FROM;
BEING OVERWHELMED

BYLINE: Gene McNary

SECTION: EDITORIAL; Pg. 3C

LENGTH: 1040 words


Most Americans celebrate their immigration heritage very proudly. They say
''cultural diversity'' is one of the things they like best about America.
According to a Gallup Poll in February, 61 percent of Americans agreed that
immigrants help improve our country with their different cultures and talents.
Lately, however, a lot of Americans are complaining about immigration. They
blame immigrants for aggravating all kinds of economic and social ills - urban
unrest, unemployment and overcrowded schools, for example.  This growing
national concern over immigration problems is only a reflection of something
that is going on all over the world. The fact is, the world is full of would-be
immigrants and refugees who are meeting a lot of resistance on their way to
finding a better life.  Austria has excluded Romanians and Bulgarians from its
refugee camps. Italy has sent back boatloads of Albanians. Germany has beefed up
its border forces to curb illegal immigration while German police try to control
the so-called ''skinhead'' youth gangs who have terrorized immigrants in the
cities. Even neutral Switzerland has started using its small army to help patrol
the borders.  In France, the only nation besides the United States and Canada
that believes in assimilation of immigrants, 75 percent of the people surveyed
said they supported the prime minister's proposal to use special airlifts to
expel illegal aliens. And virtually everywhere, the number of people seeking
asylum in neighboring countries has grown by leaps and bounds; and governments
on all continents have classified most of them as economic migrants, not
political refugees. People are moving because doors that have long been closed
are now open or because new terrors have forced them to flee. But, whether by
choice or desperation, these people have sought new dwelling places, and many of
them have not been warmly welcomed.  Everywhere they go, they raise the same
fears and questions about their impact on the marketplace of jobs, wages, goods
and services; their need for public assistance, and their effect on the social
and cultural environment.  They are the pressures of immigration the whole world
has to deal with, including the United States. But the difference between the
United States and other countries facing these pressures is simply a matter of
practice.  We've been dealing with immigration a lot longer, and we're expected
to be better at it.  Our nation was literally founded on the principle that
immigration is good for America and should be encouraged. As George Washington
said: ''The bosom of America is open to receive not only the opulent and
respectable stranger, but the oppressed and persecuted of all Nations and
Religions; whom we shall welcome to a participation of all our righ ts and
privileges, if by decency and propriety of conduct they appear to merit the
enjoyment.'' This open invitation to immigrants is something that sets us apart
from most other democracies. No country in Europe, for example, can match our
multicultural society in America. Many even see it as something threatening to
their national identity. That is why Europe is having a tougher time dealing
with increased immigration than we are. And that is why so many immigrants
prefer to come here. They come because Americans appreciate what immigrants have
to offer. And they come because we have much to offer them.  The dark side of
this is that America has attracted unwelcome strangers, too. That is why our
government's immigration policy must be balanced between encouraging ''good''
immigration and discouraging ''bad.'' We welcome the ''respectable stranger''
and the true refugee, but we hold them to rules to assure that they ''merit the
enjoyment'' of our welcome. It must be our policy to enforce the law's
restrictions as fairly as we administer its benefits.  Thus, we balance our
immigration policy on a scale like the one in the symbolic image of justice. On
one side, we weigh our national desire to carry on our immigrant tradition as a
land of opportunity and a pluralist society whose very strength comes from its
ethnic and cultural diversity. On the other side, we weigh our need to control
our borders and to be selective in who may immigrate to protect our society from
being overwhelmed by more people than our culture and economy can absorb. This
is the balance of U.S. immigration law.  It is a law based on humanitarian
ideals and principles, but it is meant to serve our national interest. It is
perhaps best symbolized by the Statue of Liberty who, in her right hand, holds
high the lamp of liberty and says ''Give me your tired, your poor, your huddled
masses yearning to breathe free .  . .'' With her left arm she holds a tablet
representing the rule of law.  It is the law that controls our humanitarian
impulses and directs them toward sensible ends. That is why our law promotes
legal immigration. Under the same law, however, we control our borders to
prevent illegal entry, we remove foreign residents who commit serious crimes or
otherwise cause harm to our society, and we monitor the workplace to prevent
unlawful employment.  Some people don't think illegal immigration is a problem.
They argue that undocumented workers are necessary to our economy. But the
problem is more social than economic. Some illegal aliens may indeed pay more in
taxes than they receive in benefits. Some may take jobs that few others want.
But they weaken the legal structure that supports all immigration into the
country. And they tend to come in and distribute themselves unevenly, creating
more burdens for some states and cities than for others. Their greatest impact
is local, not national. They tip the balance scales.  Legal immigrants, however,
are economic and social assets. They add to both national and community life. As
beneficiaries of our immigration program, they also serve to replenish the basic
spirit of the United States where they have an equal right with everyone else to
''life, liberty, and the pursuit of happiness.'' Gene McNary is commissioner of
the U.S. Immigration and Naturalization Service. The preceding is adapted from a
speech given at the St. Louis Press Club earlier this summer.

LOAD-DATE: October 12, 1993

LANGUAGE: English

                  Copyright 1992 St. Louis Post-Dispatch, Inc.


                              80 of 308 DOCUMENTS

                       St. Louis Post-Dispatch (Missouri)

                   March 15, 1993, MONDAY, FIVE STAR Edition

ILLEGAL ALIENS SWAMP SYSTEM, AGENCY SAYS; SUSPECTS LET GO; LACK OF STAFF,
FUNDING CITED

BYLINE: Nordeka English Of the St. Charles Post

SECTION: ST. CHARLES; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 342 words


The Missouri Highway Patrol has caught and then released a group of people
suspected of being illegal aliens in the O'Fallon area after consulting with the
U.S. Department of Immigration and Naturalization in the St. Louis area.

The number of illegal aliens passing through the St. Louis area has overwhelmed
the federal agency here, says one of its officers.

The officer, Chester Moyer, said that after troopers stopped the vehicle on
Highway K Friday morning, one of the federal agents talked to a trooper. At
least one person from Guatemala was in the country legally. Others, here
illegally, were from Mexico or other countries in Central America, Moyer said,
and "they were probably headed for the Florida area."

The people were allowed to go on their way because, he said, "We don't have the
staff or funding to keep them. We have to let them go."

He said the agency has 28 people and two agents to handle illegal alien cases
for a 47-county area.

"It's pretty much a joke how well we can deal with illegal aliens," Moyer said.

The area is a distribution center for illegal aliens, largely because of the
interstate highway system, Lambert Field and trains that come here from the
border states. Some trains bring goods directly from Mexico to the St.  Louis
area and frequently bring along stowaways, he says.

Moyer estimated that 4,000 or 5,000 illegal aliens pass through the St.  Louis
area each year, probably more.

"We lost track of how many were passing through many years ago," he said.

The department detains perhaps 500 each year. The first priority is determining
whether the people are involved in criminal activity, and the second is whether
they're involved in frauds, including document frauds.

Not long ago, the agents had arrested 25 illegal aliens who had fraudulent
documents and were working at a nursery in St. Louis County, he said. The
nursery owner was not involved in the activity, he said.

Moyer said he expected the problem to get worse and added, "They keep coming and
coming."

LOAD-DATE: September 29, 1993

LANGUAGE: English

                  Copyright 1993 St. Louis Post-Dispatch, Inc.


                              81 of 308 DOCUMENTS

                       St. Louis Post-Dispatch (Missouri)

                    May 25, 1993, TUESDAY, FIVE STAR Edition

BOAT DUMPS IMMIGRANTS IN SAN FRANCISCO

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 10A

LENGTH: 565 words

DATELINE: SAN FRANCISCO


A cargo ship slipped into San Francisco Bay early Monday and dumped about 200
Chinese illegal immigrants at the foot of the Golden Gate Bridge.  Most were
apprehended as they tried to flee into nearby neighborhoods.  Coast Guard
cutters chased the ship, the Pai Chang, and caught it in international waters
about 70 miles off the coast. The ship, 200 to 250 feet long, was being escorted
back to port.  The Honduran-registered ship carried a crew of seven Burmese and
four Taiwanese, the Coast Guard said.  "This is a rather bold move on the part
of the smugglers," said Steve Moran, an Immigration and Naturalization Service
supervisor.  "They usually have the mother ship stay off the coast and they will
ferry people in. To actually have the mother ship come in, deposit the people
and attempt to escape is something brand-new." The INS detained 169 immigrants
in the hours after the ship's arrival, including nine women and a juvenile, said
INS investigator Joseph Brandon. The Coast Guard estimated that the ship dropped
off about 200 immigrants.  The Coast Guard tracked the ship late Sunday as it
approached the coast and notified Park Police when it illegally churned beneath
the Golden Gate at 12:25 a.m., officials said "By the time the park police got
there, they had docked and left," said Coast Guard Chief Petty Officer Rick
Woods.  Many of the immigrants apparently fled from the dock to a steep hiking
path that led to a dirt parking lot. Chinese-labeled medicine and canned food,
clothing and a ripped map of the United States littered the path.  Dozens of
immigrants, some packed into parked cars, were arrested in the dirt lot. Others
were detained at a nearby beach, in residential neighborhoods and at a golf
course, officials said.  Six detainees were taken to a hospital with unspecified
injuries.  The immigrants apparently left China on March 30, said Jason Wu of
the U.S.  Park Police.  "They're pretty much reluctant to say anything. They're
scared. They appear to be pretty healthy but they're quite naturally nervous,"
Wu said.  Moran said the smugglers appeared to be well-organized and had
targeted the dock, about 300 yards from the Golden Gate Bridge, because of its
easy escape route back to sea.  "Somebody did some real good logistical work,"
Moran said. "I don't believe it was just a shot in the dark." David Ilchert,
district director of the INS, said it "was beautifully executed. They zip into
the harbor, do a circle, then they were gone." He said the whole operation took
only 50 minutes after the ship entered the bay.  The detentions come less than a
month after the Coast Guard towed a boat packed with 199 undocumented Chinese
into San Diego harbor.  In December, authorities intercepted a freighter just
outside San Francisco Bay carrying 180 Chinese refugees after the ship radioed
for help because it had run out of drinking water.  The ship, crammed with
people sitting in human waste, had been at sea for 46 days.  Several hundred
illegal Chinese immigrants have reached San Francisco by sea over the last two
years, and an unknown number have slipped into the country by providing fake
passports at the airport, said Jon Wu, an attorney for immigrants.  Authorities
believe Chinese pay up to $30,000 a person for passage by international
smuggling rings operated by gangs or organized crime groups in Asia, perhaps
Hong Kong.

LOAD-DATE: October 7, 1993

LANGUAGE: English

GRAPHIC: PHOTO; Color Photo by AP - Illegal Chinese immigrants, arrested Monday
after being dumped by a freighter, being processed by U.S. immigration agents in
San Francisco.

                  Copyright 1993 St. Louis Post-Dispatch, Inc.


                              82 of 308 DOCUMENTS

                       St. Louis Post-Dispatch (Missouri)

                   June 12, 1993, SATURDAY, FIVE STAR Edition

FIX THE GOLDEN DOOR

SECTION: EDITORIAL; Pg. 2B

LENGTH: 418 words


Despite the symbolism that the wrecked freighter Golden Venture revealed about
illegal aliens streaming into the United States, not all immigrants without
papers are equal in the eyes of federal law. Many, such as Haitians with HIV,
have been rejected or held in confinement offshore. Others, such as Pakistanis
and Arabs from the Middle East, have learned how to plead for political asylum
and extend their stays in the states for months, if not years. And the Chinese
from the mainland, still under communist rule, are in fact welcome in the United
States because they are fleeing a politically oppressive regime and escaping
tyrannical birth-control policies.  In other words, U.S. policy regarding
illegal immigration is neither consistent nor fair. It is patched together by
one administration after another to fit the exigencies of foreign policy. It is
summed up in the duality of treatment of people from two Caribbean islands: Cuba
and Haiti.  Because they can claim political asylum from Fidel Castro's
communist government, Cubans long have been welcome in the states. Most work
hard, become taxpaying capitalists and support the U.S. anti-Castro policy.
Haitians, on the other hand, are too often perceived as poor and sickly if not
infected with the AIDS virus, and with little inclination to be active in
political causes. But they, too, are fleeing an authoritarian - though not
communist - regime.  As for the Chinese fleeing the communist government in
Beijing, it is part and parcel of current U.S. policy toward China to be a haven
for those who can escape and arrive in this country to seek asylum. And the
United States wants and should continue to give safe haven to the oppressed of
other countries.  Here's the dilemma, summed up by Arthur Helton, director of
the Refugee Project at the Lawyers Committee for Human Rights in New York, who
told The New York Times : "We should be sure we do not extinguish the
opportunity for genuine refugees to receive asylum. We should work toward a
system that balances immigration control and the human rights of refugees."
Because U.S. policy is poorly defined and inconsistent, and because at its best
it does provide asylum to oppressed individuals, the United States remains a
magnet of hope to many around the world. But this country owes it to them and to
its citizens to come up with a policy on asylum that balances the rights of
refugees with immigration control. This would discourage death ships such as the
Golden Venture.

LOAD-DATE: October 7, 1993

LANGUAGE: English

TYPE: EDITORIAL

                  Copyright 1993 St. Louis Post-Dispatch, Inc.


                              83 of 308 DOCUMENTS

                       St. Louis Post-Dispatch (Missouri)

                 August 18, 1993, WEDNESDAY, FIVE STAR Edition

ILLEGAL ALIENS DESERVE DECENT TREATMENT

SECTION: EDITORIAL; Pg. 6B

LENGTH: 454 words


Why anyone would want to come to the United States as an illegal alien may
remain a mystery for those Americans fortunate to be born citizens - if they
know how illegals are treated here. Since the early years of the Reagan
administration, people who sneak into the United States are subjected to what
would be considered unconstitutional forms of abuse: beatings, long detention
without habeas corpus, no legal representation.  This policy apparently was
deliberate, in hopes that the word would leak back to such countries of origin
as China and Haiti that illegal immigrants are not welcome on these shores. Now
the Clinton administration is proposing that the federal Immigration and
Naturalization Service be given even stronger powers to act as keeper of what is
a non-person's prison until deportation hearings are held.  In a report released
recently, the American Civil Liberties Union detailed the many ways in which
illegal aliens are treated worse than dangerous criminals, whose civil rights at
least have been established under statute and case law. In a study of the
Varrick Street detention center in New York, The New York Times reported, the
ACLU inspection team was not allowed to speak with people being held there or to
look at records. The ACLU's report is based in part on papers obtained through
the Freedom of Information Act.  As the news media have reported in the last
several weeks, the world seems to be awash in people fleeing one country in
search of peace, a job and a home in another. Yet in Western Europe, as well as
the United States, public pressure is building to stop the flow of humanity in
any way possible. In the United States, traditionally a destination for the
poor, the desperate and the willing-to-work, problems have been building for
more than a decade. Yet despite the public perception that immigrants and
illegal aliens steal jobs and run up welfare bills, studies in such places as
Los Angeles - which are truly burdened by both types of newcomers - show that
the new arrivals here are usually productive taxpayers, eager to become "real
Americans." They do not deserve the treatment that the ACLU has uncovered.
People who sneak into the United States, for whatever reason, still should
receive treatment at least as good as that given criminals who are citizens.
When U.S.  immigration law is revised, as it surely will be by Congress, strict
but fair standards of admission must be set down. The question of political
asylum must be resolved to protect the deserving. And those who are awaiting
deportation under the law must not be treated as trash, as they often are today.
This country can do better in the way it treats even its uninvited guests.

LOAD-DATE: October 11, 1993

LANGUAGE: English

TYPE: EDITORIAL

                  Copyright 1993 St. Louis Post-Dispatch, Inc.


                              84 of 308 DOCUMENTS

                       St. Louis Post-Dispatch (Missouri)

                 September 12, 1993, SUNDAY, THREE STAR Edition

WILSON URGES ID CARD TEST IN CALIFORNIA

BYLINE: Rick Orlov 1993, Los Angeles Daily News

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 6B

LENGTH: 613 words

DATELINE: LOS ANGELES


PURSUING HIS campaign against illegal immigration, Gov. Pete Wilson has called
on President Bill Clinton to use California as a test site to site to develop a
tamper-proof identification card for anyone seeking a job or government
benefits.  Wilson says the cards - similar to the hologram driver's licenses
issued by the state - would help prevent illegal aliens from getting hired or
obtaining government services.  The proposal drew concerns from civil
libertarians, but Wilson said a more stringent identification system is needed
to enforce existing laws that bar the employment of illegal immigrants.  "Until
we deal with the problem of document fraud, anyone proposing additional employer
sanctions is just blowing hot air," Wilson said Thursday at a news conference.
Wilson pointed to a table filled with phony passports, work permits and Social
Security cards.  "This proliferation of forged documents is making a mockery of
our nation's immigration laws," he said. "We'll never tackle the problems posed
by illegal immigration until we replace these bogus documents with a
tamper-proof card for legal residents." White House spokeswoman Kim Hopper said
that the administration would take Wilson's proposal under consideration. But an
attorney with the American Civil Liberties Union expressed concern about the
Wilson proposal and the concept of a national identification card.  "This raises
some serious privacy issues," attorney Sylvia Argueta said.  "We all know that a
national ID card would be based on a person's Social Security number. Once
someone has that, it allows anyone access to an enormous amount of information
on an individual - their banking, credit history, vehicle information, address
and phone numbers." In addition, Argueta said there is no guarantee it would
reduce the number of illegal aliens.  "There is no real tamper-proof system,"
Argueta said. "We already know that the Social Security system has failed. There
are a lot of phony cards out there. So they would have to reissue new cards in a
foolproof manner.  We'll be back to Square One after spending something like $2
billion." Wilson acknowledged this could be a problem with the cards, but
believes it would provide a stronger check than the present system.  "It doesn't
do much good to have a tamper-proof card if the process can be easily used by
those who are illegal residents," Wilson said. "We would have to have
difficult-to-obtain documents in which to get the cards." U.S. Sen. Dianne
Feinstein, D-Calif., said she believes the idea might have some merit.  "After
seeing all the forged green cards in a display at the border, and because there
are employer sanctions in place that prohibit the hiring of illegal immigrants,
I believe the time has come to consider a tamper-proof identification card or
Social Security card," Feinstein said.  "Most likely the health-care reform
proposal will carry with it some kind of identification card and this might well
be a vehicle to address this," she said.  Asked if the card would be required of
everyone, Wilson said, "It will apply to all people seeking employment or
government benefits." In his letter to Clinton, Wilson said California has more
than half of the nation's illegal immigrants.  "In no other state is the
taxpayer burden for federally mandated services more acute," Wilson said,
estimating costs at $3 billion a year.  Since last month, Wilson has been
focusing on immigration issues and has called for comprehensive changes in the
nation's laws - including not granting citizenship status to children of illegal
aliens born in the United States as well as a denial of health and education
benefits.

LOAD-DATE: October 11, 1993

LANGUAGE: English

                  Copyright 1993 St. Louis Post-Dispatch, Inc.


                              85 of 308 DOCUMENTS

                       St. Louis Post-Dispatch (Missouri)

                September 23, 1993, THURSDAY, FIVE STAR Edition

A DISTORTED VIEW OF IMMIGRANTS

BYLINE: Stephen H. Legomsky

SECTION: EDITORIAL; Pg. 7B

LENGTH: 1307 words

COMMENTARY COLUMN


Those of us who have worked with immigrants know the power of their
accomplishments and the inspiration of their examples. Yet opinion polls
consistently show negative public attitudes toward immigration.

Why the disparity between the positive reality that first-hand observers see and
the negative perception that the opinion polls reflect? The answer is sad but
simple: When it comes to immigration, image is everything. And the image of
immigrants is at an all-time low.

Test yourself: When you hear the word "immigration," what do you think of?  Odds
are it is not romantic images of the Statue of Liberty or the melting pot. In
the past year, the major immigration stories have been about Chinese smuggling
rings that enslave their alien passengers; immigrants linked to the bombing of
the World Trade Center and to other terrorist plots; Zoe Baird and other
privileged employers of illegal nannies; marriage fraud; Nazi war criminals who
conceal their pasts; boatloads of Haitians, some with AIDS, and an asylum system
careering out of control at New York's JFK airport. Or maybe you simply picture
vast hordes of people crossing our borders furtively.

These are the images that too frequently come to mind, and for many reasons they
are profoundly unsettling. Political leaders in California routinely blame
"illegal aliens" for every economic problem from budget deficits to
unemployment. Some citizens associate immigration with crime or welfare.

In a less tangible way, images of "illegal aliens" trigger several core
instincts. Mass violations of United States law, especially by outsiders, breach
a deep-seated law enforcement ethic. Add to this a shared feeling of invaded
space, of stolen sovereignty - the same anger that a property owner feels toward
trespassers. There is, moreover, the normal human aversion to being taken
advantage of. There is the frustration that comes from concluding that we have
lost either the means or the will to control our borders, and therefore our
destiny. And, for some, there is a racial element, a resistance to sharing space
with those whose appearances, languages or cultural practices are unfamiliar.

These are understandable impulses. We all feel them.

But if we're going to be driven by visual images, let's make sure the images are
both accurate and complete. Here are some of the things that need to enter our
mental picture:

First, the vast bulk of our immigration is through regular legal channels.
Approximations are crude, but most authorities would agree that less than 25
percent of all immigration to the United States is illegal. Illegal immigration
is serious, but it is still the exception rather than the norm.

Second, our immigration rules are quite exacting. Only those immigrants who fit
into certain specific pigeonholes are admitted. Of the immigrants we accept,
about 62 percent are coming here to be reunited with close family members who
are United States citizens or lawful permanent residents - most commonly their
spouses, their children, or their parents. Another 18 percent of the admitted
immigrants are persons of "extraordinary" prominence or persons who possess
special occupational skills that employers need and cannot otherwise obtain. And
15 percent are refugees fleeing persecution (less than 1 percent of the world's
refugees). The remaining 5 percent of our immigrants fall into other
miscellaneous categories. There is not a lot to cut.

Finally, we need to pause and aconsider what immigrants continue to do for
America. By taking jobs that many citizens spurn, they help sustain marginal
enterprises that also employ Americans. Yet they do not merely take jobs.  By
consuming goods and services, they create jobs, just as citizens do. Being
younger than average, they contribute more to the Social Security system than
they draw from it. They pay more in federal income taxes than they receive in
federal government services. (Comparison is more difficult at the state level,
and a few states do bear disproportionate costs.)

Immigrants bring diversity. They enrich us culturally and spiritually.  They are
a special breed of people with the strength, courage and initiative to pull up
stakes and start all over in a new and unfamiliar land. More than anything else,
though, typical immigrants are positive, law-abiding individuals with remarkably
mainstream values. Like those of us who are already here, they want to work,
raise families and make a better world for their children.

The United States has two venerable traditions. One is to admit immigrants.  The
other is to complain vigorously about whatever immigrant group is most visible
at the time. Irish, German, Jewish, Chinese, Japanese, Eastern European,
Southern European and, more recently, Mexican immigrants have all been targets
at first. Successive generations have all proved their detractors wrong.

If we are patient, they will do so again.

LOAD-DATE: September 24, 1993

LANGUAGE: English

GRAPHIC: (1) Color Photo - Country, By George - Lifestyle and performance are
liable to overlap if you are George Jones, the hard-drinking country singer
considered by some to be the best there ever was, or ever will be.  Jones
appears at 8 p.m. Sept. 25 in the Rickman Auditorium, 745 Jeffco Blvd., Arnold,
Mo. Among the zillion hits acquired by this Grammy Award-winning performer are
"He Stopped Loving Her Today" and "If Drinking Don't Kill Me (Your Memory
Will)." (2) Color Photo - Another Bout Of String Fever - Becoming the "trio of
the future" means combining a dynamic performance of standard repertory for
piano, violin and cello with the exploration of contemporary works according to
the lofty aims of the Guild Piano Trio. The ensemble of Patricia Tao (piano),
Janet Orenstein (violin) and Brooks Whitehouse (cello) will appear in a chamber
music concert at 8 p.m. Sept. 27, Ethical Society, 9001 Clayton Road, as part of
the Premiere Performance series at the University of Missouri at St. Louis.
(Information: 553-5814). (3) Color Photo - A Wry Way To Go - Gracious, certain
members of 18th-century England were pretentious, but author Richard Brinsley
Sheridan cut them down to size in his popular satire, "The Rivals." Erin
Considine portrays Mrs. Malaprop, whose niece insists on falling in love with a
penniless officer, and Rob Harriell is Sir Lucius O'Tigger, Aunt Malaprop's
beau. The Conservatory of Theatre Arts at Webster University production opens at
7:30 p.m. Sept. 29, lower level, Loretto-Hilton Center, 130 Edgar Road, and runs
through Oct. 10.  (Information: 968-7128).

                  Copyright 1993 St. Louis Post-Dispatch, Inc.


                              86 of 308 DOCUMENTS

                       St. Louis Post-Dispatch (Missouri)

                  January 31, 1994, MONDAY, FIVE STAR Edition

GOVERNORS WEARY OF FEDERAL TAB

BYLINE: Kathleen Best Post-Dispatch Washington Bureau The Associated Press
provided some information for this story.

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 1A

LENGTH: 1560 words

DATELINE: WASHINGTON


Illinois spent more than $ 140 million last year to keep illegal immigrants in
hospitals, schools and jails. In California, the price tag was more than $ 2
billion. The nation's governors are saying, "Enough."

"There has been a failure of national policy" to control the borders, said Gov.
Mel Carnahan of Missouri. "The impact of that should not be borne by the
states."

But because of federal requirements, the states do. The federal government
requires the states to pick up half the health-care costs for emergency medical
treatment for illegal immigrants and all the costs of educating or jailing
undocumented aliens.

"Collectively, the costs that are imposed upon the states have reached a point
where, in many states, we are no longer able to provide needed services to legal
residents," said Gov. Pete Wilson of California. "And that is terribly wrong and
unfair."

Illinois Gov. Jim Edgar added: "$ 140 million is a lot of money, particularly
when we have many programs that provide services for state residents that we
can't fund as high as we'd like."

The National Governors' Association, which is holding its winter meeting in
Washington this week, called Sunday for Congress and the White House to repeal
federal mandates that require states to provide services to illegal immigrants
without giving the states the money to pay for them.

Edgar, Wilson and the governors of Florida, New York and Texas will underscore
that message today in a meeting with federal budget director Leon Panetta,
Attorney General Janet Reno and the secretaries of health and education.

Edgar said he was not optimistic that the governors would get want they wanted.
"But we want (federal officials) to realize their fiscal responsibility on a
program they solely control."

Last year, Illinois spent about $ 77 million sending the children of illegal
immigrants to school in Illinois, $ 24 million covering health care for illegal
immigrants and $ 46.6 million keeping illegal immigrants in state prisons - all
federally required expenditures.

In addition, the state spent $ 5.7 million on public health services such as
immunizations and $ 3 million on adult education for illegal immigrants.  Those
payments were not required by federal policy, but Edgar would like the federal
government to pay for them, as well.

Carnahan said illegal immigrants so far have not had a major effect on
Missouri's budget. "But it is a legitimate issue."

And Wilson warned that the problem was spreading. "A spillover is beginning to
occur already" as illegal immigrants migrate from border states such as
California and Florida into New York, Chicago and other cities, he said.

There is "no basis in logic or fairness" for the states to pick up the tab for a
federal immigration failure, Wilson said. "There was a time perhaps when people
could ignore that. But that time has passed. The costs of providing these
emergency health care services is simply exploding."

In California, the costs of health care for illegal immigrants rose "18-fold"
between 1989 and 1993, said Wilson, a Republican. He has turned the issue into a
centerpiece of his campaign for re-election.

But the sentiment for more federal aid won bipartisan support among the
governors. Florida Gov. Lawton Chiles, a Democrat, has filed suit against the
federal government seeking to force the federal government to pay for services
for undocumented aliens.

And governors of both parties voted in favor of the call to repeal federal
requirements that they provide services out of their own states' tax money.

The illegal immigrant debate was the latest example in what has become open
warfare between the governors and Congress over federal requirements for
services that are not matched by federal money to pay for them.

From Medicaid to environmental regulations to education programs, "we are
raising a shrill cry for the need to contain" unfunded federal mandates,
Carnahan said. "We are making that pitch on the Hill, with the White House and
the administration. This has been an expensive habit that the national
government has had, and it simply can't go on. It is eating up our ability to do
our basic services on the state level."

Many governors fear that Congress and the White House will follow a similar
pattern when they craft a health-care reform package. "There's a lot of
frustration and anger about this health-care plan," said Wisconsin Gov.  Tommy
Thompson, a Republican.

The governors have been unable to agree on how far a reform proposal should go
and how it should be paid for. But they want to make sure that the end result
allows states to experiment and to put in place health-care systems that are not
weighed down by excessive federal regulations, the governors said.

As the governors asked for more leeway, foremost in their minds was the Medicaid
program, whose costs rose 31.3 percent in 1992 from 1991 and 28 percent in 1991
from 1990.

Today, states must ask for a waiver to bypass federal regulations and enroll
Medicaid recipients in managed-care and other programs that save money by
providing preventive care. The governors want to be able to adopt such programs
without having to go through what they consider a burdensome waiver process.

Some governors take heart that one of their own - former Arkansas Gov.  Bill
Clinton - sits in the White House. Carnahan said the president already has
listened attentively to his former colleagues.

But getting the president's ear is proving easier than getting federal money.

LOAD-DATE: February 1, 1994

LANGUAGE: English

                  Copyright 1994 St. Louis Post-Dispatch, Inc.


                              87 of 308 DOCUMENTS

                       St. Louis Post-Dispatch (Missouri)

                     May 9, 1994, MONDAY, FIVE STAR Edition

CANDIDATES HOP ABOARD IMMIGRATION ISSUE; ILLEGAL ALIENS MORE RESENTED NOW, POLLS
SAY

BYLINE: Bill Lambrecht Post-Dispatch Washington Bureau

SECTION: WAR PAGE; Pg. 5B

LENGTH: 945 words

DATELINE: WASHINGTON


FROM HAITIAN REFUGEES to welfare reform, immigration is swiftly becoming a
flashpoint in American politics.

Questions about non-citizens once were the domain of border towns and the few
states that absorbed their costs. But as Americans turn inward and worry mainly
about problems at home, immigration is growing more important in domestic as
well as foreign policy.

Candidates mapping election strategy have begun to use the immigration issue,
following polls that show increased resentment against illegal aliens.

The harsh tenor of this dialogue led Rep. David Obey, D-Wis., to remark last
week that the debate over immigration is producing "future George Wallaces" in
this country.

"You see what's happening in this country on immigration policy. It's turning
very mean and very frustrating," said Obey, chairman of the House Appropriations
Committee.

Obey, who has headed the Foreign Operations subcommittee, is among the Democrats
who have criticized U.S. policy toward Haiti. He asserts that the policy has
become an immigration debate that is drowning out the objective of restoring
democracy to Haiti.

Obey views the immigration debate as corrosive to the United States, and he
adds: "Our concern ought to be how you change the situation so that it does not
impact us here in this country."

Obey's solution? He believes the U.S. ought to orchestrate an invasion of Haiti.

President Bill Clinton, in a major change of policy, announced Sunday that the
United States would, within weeks, stop returning Haitian boat people to their
homeland without hearing their claims for asylum.

The immigration debate has spread from the foreign policy hearing rooms to the
halls of Congress. The Republican Party's main welfare reform proposal in the
House - a bill with 162 co-sponsors - would accumulate $ 21 billion of a
projected $ 34 billion in savings over five years by ending payments to most
non-citizens.

"The Problem: Too Much Welfare For Too Many Immigrants," begins the Republicans'
analysis of their plan. The analysis goes on to say that 11 percent of all
welfare recipients and 20 percent of elderly who get welfare are not American
citizens.

Last week, in a test skirmish on welfare reform, the House Ways and Means
Committee narrowly defeated an amendment that would have cut off benefits to
those who did not obtain U.S. citizenship after one year in this country. The
proposal drew bipartisan support, suggesting that Congress may be receptive to
cutting benefits down the line. Alarm In Arizona, California

The debate also is sounding in states. Arizona Gov. Fife Symington, a
Republican, sued the federal government last week for $ 121 million for
Arizona's costs of imprisoning illegal aliens. In April, California asked for $
377 million in a similar suit demanding payments from the federal government for
welfare, health care, education and state services.

California Gov. Pete Wilson, a Republican who trails in polls in his re-election
campaign, was widely viewed as trying to tap into the anti-immigrant sentiment.
Wilson said that his motive wasn't political.

In California, the immigration issue is especially important to Republicans and
conservative voters, according to Mark DiCamillo, director of the Field
Institute, which publishes the Field Poll. DiCamillo added that older voters are
drawn to the issue more than voters in any other age group.

While Californians as a whole ranked illegal immigration as the 10th most
important issue, voters over 50 said it was the fifth worst problem in that
state.

"It is one of those issues that touches the other issues that are at the top of
people's concerns," DiCamillo said.

By invoking immigration, candidates reach voters who are worried about crime and
government spending.

Eddie Mahe, a consultant in Washington for Republicans, noted that the phrase
"illegal aliens" conveys wrongdoing. "There's a sense among people that they're
criminals when they get here and they continue being criminals," Mahe said. A
Springboard For GOP?

Among some Republicans, immigration is viewed as a ticket to win back some of
the edge they have relinquished to Democrats on crime. As recently as the 1992
elections, Republicans enjoyed a decided advantage over Democrats when voters
were asked which party could best handle crime issues.

But polls show that the Republican advantage disappeared. On top of that,
Democratic members of Congress head into the fall elections after arranging
passage of the ban on assault weapons. Clinton most likely will be able to say
that he and the Democrats have presided over the addition of 100,000 police
officers around the country.

On welfare, the Democrats, too, propose cutting benefits to non-citizens.
Clinton's overdue plan, now expected next month, is expected to reduce their
benefits by at least several billion dollars.

Pollsters are finding fertile ground for invoking immigration issues in the new
campaigns. Neil Newhouse, who takes polls for Republican candidates, said that
he has been surprised by the intensity of the issue.

In recent focus groups - sessions held with small groups of voters - Newhouse
discovered that the immigration issue spills over to health care. By a margin of
2-1 and sometimes 3-1, voters in these groups said they opposed giving health
care to people who aren't citizens.

But Newhouse warned that candidates run risks when they don't deploy the issue
tactfully. "It's such a polarizing issue that it can be dangerous to use," he
said. "It's a fine line to walk between feeling strongly about the issue of
immigration and being perceived as intolerant of foreigners."

LOAD-DATE: May 10, 1994

LANGUAGE: English

GRAPHIC: PHOTO; Photo by AP - A U.S. Coast Guard vessel escorts a Haitian boat
crowded with refugees after it was intercepted off the Florida coast last month.
President Bill Clinton announced Sunday that refugees will be given offshore
hearings.

                  Copyright 1994 St. Louis Post-Dispatch, Inc.


                              88 of 308 DOCUMENTS

                       St. Louis Post-Dispatch (Missouri)

                  October 28, 1994, FRIDAY, THREE STAR Edition

AN ILLEGAL ALIEN WORKED 5 YEARS FOR HUFFINGTONS

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 11A

LENGTH: 801 words

DATELINE: LOS ANGELES


California Republican candidate Mike Huffington, whose tough stand against
illegal immigration is a cornerstone of his Senate campaign, employed a woman at
his Santa Barbara home for about five years who was in the United States
illegally, his campaign acknowledges.

The woman's job ended last year, shortly after Huffington was sworn into office
as a freshman congressman and several months before he announced his bid to
challenge Sen. Dianne Feinstein, sources told the Los Angeles Times. The woman
had cared for the Huffingtons' two daughters - now ages 3 and 5 - since they
were born.

On Wednesday, after a campaign event in San Diego where he spoke about his
support for Proposition 187 - the anti-illegal immigration measure on the
November ballot - Huffington was asked if he had ever employed an illegal
immigrant at his home, which is a violation of federal law. He told the San
Diego newspaper reporter that he did not know of any problem.

On Wednesday evening, however, Huffington's campaign issued a one-sentence
response acknowledging that the employee had worked at the home illegally.

Huffington's campaign released five pages of federal documents Wednesday
evening, after being questioned about the issue by The Times, to demonstrate
that the candidate's wife had tried unsuccessfully to obtain papers that would
allow the worker to be in the country legally.

The candidate's wife, Arianna Huffington, said the couple had paid all the
necessary taxes for the woman. She said the woman left the Huffingtons'
employment shortly after Michael Huffington was sworn into office in January
last year. Arianna Huffington said the woman did not want to make the move to
Washington with the Huffingtons because she was married.

Robb, North Spar

In Virginia, Oliver North, whose felony convictions were overturned by a federal
appeals panel, criticized rival Sen. Charles S. Robb for backing federal appeals
judges who North says are too soft on criminals.

North attacked Robb's votes this year to confirm Rosemary Barkett for the 11th
U.S. Circuit Court of Appeals and H. Lee Sarokin for the 3rd Circuit.

"Chuck Robb talks tough about crime, but he's really soft on crime," the
Republican challenger said at a news conference Wednesday.

Robb, a Democrat, called North's comments "incredible."

"If it hadn't been for a couple of soft-on-crime federal judges, he'd be in the
slammer and certainly wouldn't be able to run for federal office," Robb said.

Both judges were endorsed by their senators and by police organizations in their
states, Robb said.

Cuomo Up In Polls

The endorsement of Rudolph Giuliani, a Republican, of Democratic Gov. Mario
Cuomo is helping Cuomo catch up to GOP challenger George Pataki, two polls
released Thursday show.

A poll by the Marist College Institute for Public Opinion had Pataki at 37
percent, Cuomo at 36 percent and independent B. Thomas Golisano at 8 percent,
with 17 percent undecided. The margin of error was 3.5 percentage points.

A New York Post-Fox 5 television poll had Pataki at 40 percent, Cuomo at 36
percent, Golisano at 6 percent and 16 percent undecided. The margin of error was
3.4 percentage points.

Both polls were conducted after Giuliani, the Republican mayor of New York City,
endorsed Cuomo on Monday.

Marist pollster Lee Miringoff said Cuomo is being aided by Giuliani's
endorsement. But the governor is being helped even more by the Golisano
candidacy, which didn't begin until mid-September.

Republicans Attack

The GOP began an ad blitz Thursday designed to sour voters on President Bill
Clinton and the Democratic Congress.

"Clinton and his Democrat Congress control Washington, and what do we get?" says
one of three new GOP ads. "More taxes, more spending, more government. That's
not what we were promised. And that's not what this country needs."

Haley Barbour, chairman of the Republican National Committee, said the ads would
cost roughly $ 1.9 million and include a modest national purchase and heavier
buys in targeted markets in 25 or so states, beginning Friday and running
through Election Day.

The White House quickly counterpunched, suggesting that the GOP ads were proof
of Democratic momentum. "They don't suddenly do $ 2 million worth of hit ads
unless they are worried," said White House chief of staff Leon Panetta.

Republican Lead Thins

A new national poll offered a sliver of evidence to support the White House
argument.

A Times Mirror survey of 1,577 registered voters taken Oct. 20-24 found that 47
percent planned to vote Republican in their House race, while 44 percent said
Democratic. That was an improvement for Democrats over the last Times Mirror
survey, and other polls this week have even shown Democrats with a narrow lead
on the question.

LOAD-DATE: October 29, 1994

LANGUAGE: English

GRAPHIC: PHOTO; (1) Photo By AP - Above: Oliver North campaigns Thursday at a
commuter train station in Manassas, Va. He called Wednesday for tougher judges
on federal appeals courts. (2) Photo By AP - Right: Mitt Romney hunts for votes
in Revere, Mass., Thursday morning. He is challenging Sen. Edward M. Kennedy,
D-Mass.

                  Copyright 1994 St. Louis Post-Dispatch, Inc.


                              89 of 308 DOCUMENTS

                       St. Louis Post-Dispatch (Missouri)

                  October 28, 1994, FRIDAY, FIVE STAR Edition

AN ILLEGAL ALIEN WORKED 5 YEARS FOR HUFFINGTONS

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 11A

LENGTH: 801 words

DATELINE: SANTA BARBARA, CALIF.


Republican Senate candidate Mike Huffington and his wife, Arianna, admitted
Thursday that they broke the law by employing an illegal immigrant at their home
for nearly five years. They also didn't pay the required taxes on her salary for
about a year, they said.

Huffington has campaigned in favor of Proposition 187, which would deny
education and non-emergency health care to illegal immigrants.

On Wednesday, asked if he had employed any illegal aliens, he said he did not
think there was any problem. He changed his statement after inquiries by the Los
Angeles Times, which reported the illegal alien on Thursday.

At a news conference, Huffington said that the couple retained the woman as a
nanny for their children because their children had grown so close to her. They
said they tried to obtain federal approval for the woman to work in the country
legally but she remained undocumented throughout her employment.

Huffington said the woman's job ended in the summer of 1993, more than six
months after Huffington was sworn in as a freshman congressman and shortly
before Huffington announced his challenge to Sen. Dianne Feinstein.

The GOP candidate blamed his wife for hiring the woman and said he had not been
involved in the decision, but added that he took full responsibility for the
action. And while he said he would pay a fine for the violation if he is cited
by authorities, he downplayed the seriousness of the infractions.

"We have made a mistake, there is no question about it," he said. " . . . (But)
who among us has not broken the law? Who among us has not rolled through a stop
sign? . . . We are all human . . . and if we make a mistake . . . we should own
up to it."

The Immigration and Naturalization Service said Thursday that, based on the news
reports, investigators will begin an inquiry to determine whether laws were
broken. Since 1986, it has been a violation of federal law to hire an illegal
immigrant.

Arianna Huffington said the employee was hired in May 1989, about the time of
the birth of the couple's first daughter. She said she did not begin paying
taxes on the woman's salary until June 1990. "I have not paid the taxes from '89
to 1990," she said.

Robb, North Spar

In Virginia, Oliver North, whose felony convictions were overturned by a federal
appeals panel, criticized rival Sen. Charles S. Robb for backing federal appeals
judges who North says are too soft on criminals.

North attacked Robb's votes this year to confirm Rosemary Barkett for the 11th
U.S. Circuit Court of Appeals and H. Lee Sarokin for the 3rd Circuit.

"Chuck Robb talks tough about crime, but he's really soft on crime," the
Republican challenger said at a news conference Wednesday.

Robb, a Democrat, called North's comments "incredible."

"If it hadn't been for a couple of soft-on-crime federal judges, he'd be in the
slammer and certainly wouldn't be able to run for federal office," Robb said.

Republicans Attack

The GOP began an ad blitz Thursday designed to sour voters on President Bill
Clinton and the Democratic Congress.

Haley Barbour, chairman of the Republican National Committee, said the ads would
cost roughly $ 1.9 million and include a modest national purchase and heavier
buys in targeted markets in 25 or so states, beginning Friday and running
through Election Day.

The White House quickly counterpunched, suggesting that the GOP ads were proof
of Democratic momentum. "They don't suddenly do $ 2 million worth of hit ads
unless they are worried," said White House chief of staff Leon Panetta.

Kennedy, Rival Debate

In Holyoke, Mass., Sen. Edward M. Kennedy and GOP challenger Mitt Romney fielded
questions about crime, welfare and congressional gridlock in a forum Thursday
that provoked few heated exchanges.

Questions were asked by a panel of 12 citizens. A poll before the debate showed
Romney trailing Kennedy by around 20 points in the race. Just weeks ago, they
were in a dead heat.

One debate expert declared Thursday's performance a draw.

"They were pretty evenly matched," said Dale Herbeck, a communications professor
at Boston College and former president of the American Forensic Association.

Cuomo Up In Polls

The endorsement of Rudolph Giuliani, a Republican, of Democratic Gov. Mario
Cuomo is helping Cuomo catch up to GOP challenger George Pataki, two polls
released Thursday show.

A poll by the Marist College Institute for Public Opinion had Pataki at 37
percent, Cuomo at 36 percent and independent B. Thomas Golisano at 8 percent,
with 17 percent undecided. The margin of error was 3.5 percentage points.

A New York Post-Fox 5 television poll had Pataki at 40 percent, Cuomo at 36
percent, Golisano at 6 percent and 16 percent undecided. The margin of error was
3.4 percentage points.

LOAD-DATE: October 29, 1994

LANGUAGE: English

GRAPHIC: PHOTO; (1) Photo By AP - ABOVE: Oliver North campaigns Thursday at a
commuter train station in Manassas, Va. He called Wednesday for tougher judges
on federal appeals courts. (2) Photo By AP - RIGHT: Mitt Romney hunts for votes
in Revere, Mass., Thursday morning. He is challenging Sen. Edward M. Kennedy,
D-Mass.

                  Copyright 1994 St. Louis Post-Dispatch, Inc.


                              90 of 308 DOCUMENTS

                       St. Louis Post-Dispatch (Missouri)

                 November 2, 1994, WEDNESDAY, FIVE STAR Edition

THE WRONG WAY TO SAVE CALIFORNIA

SECTION: EDITORIAL; Pg. 6B

LENGTH: 444 words


The potential impact of Proposition 187, the ill-considered crackdown on
undocumented immigrants on the ballot in California next month, is becoming
clearer all the time. If passed, the proposal would deny illegal immigrants
access to almost all public services, from education to health care. Last week,
two of the proposal's most ardent supporters shared the spotlight in different
ways. Both cases show what a mean-spirited attack the proposition is.

Gov. Pete Wilson, in a re-election battle with Democrat Kathleen Brown, said
last week that passage of the so-called "Save Our State" measure would require
that Californians carry a special identification card if they want to send their
children to school or gain any other government health or social benefits. Ms.
Brown seized on the specter of Americans having to produce citizenship papers on
demand by producing her own oversized version of what such a card might look
like - using the governor as a model. The ID card, complete with photo and thumb
print, should be enough to scare anyone considering a vote for Proposition 187.

Those still unconvinced should consider the case of Rep. Michael Huffington, the
free-spending Republican candidate for U.S. Senate against incumbent Dianne
Feinstein. Not long after he announced his support for the anti-immigrant
measure, his campaign acknowledged that his household had employed an
undocumented alien as a nanny. He also had sponsored a bill in Congress to make
it a crime to transport an illegal immigrant across state lines - something he
had done himself when he brought the nanny from California to Washington.

If such revelations aren't enough to derail Proposition 187, the opposition of
stalwart Republicans like William Bennett and Jack Kemp should help. So should a
Justice Department analysis that said the U.S. Supreme Court had declared
unconstitutional in 1982 the kind of provisions that the California ballot
measure would put into place.

Proposition 187 is simply wrong. It wouldn't deter immigrants from coming to
California in search of a better life; it would merely throw hundreds of
thousands of children out of schools and into the streets, as well as deny
families basic medical care. It would mean that anyone with a foreign-sounding
name could be subject to harassment and suspicion - a situation denounced by a
recent federal appellate court ruling in San Francisco. Frustration at the
government's inability to control immigration should not be translated into
vindictive, repressive government action. Californians can best save their state
and preserve their humanity as well by rejecting Proposition 187.

LOAD-DATE: November 3, 1994

LANGUAGE: English

TYPE: EDITORIAL

                  Copyright 1994 St. Louis Post-Dispatch, Inc.


                              91 of 308 DOCUMENTS

                       St. Louis Post-Dispatch (Missouri)

                 February 9, 1995, Thursday, FIVE STAR Edition

TACO BELL'S 'BORDER LIGHTS' CAMPAIGN HITS A BRICK WALL

SECTION: BUSINESS; Pg. 5C

LENGTH: 471 words

DATELINE: SANTA ANA, CALIF.


Big lights, bright dreams. Taco Bell Corp. Wednesday introduced the "Border
Lights" menu and advertising campaign that executives of the Irvine,
Calif.-based company say "will change the fast-food industry forever."

Taco Bell Chief Executive John Martin says the new health-conscious fare
features baked white-corn tacos stuffed with lean beef and low-fat cheese and
sour cream.

Yet the "Border Lights" imagery already is meeting resistance: at the
U.S.-Mexico border, where the debate over illegal immigration has hardened in
recent months. "It's hard for me to make a connection between low-calorie food
and 'border lights,' " says Roberto Martinez, director of the Quaker-funded
U.S.-Mexico Border Project and an immigrants-rights advocate.

"My God, what does that have to do with the sale of tacos?" says Muriel Watson,
head of a citizens group opposed to illegal immigration.

Under the banner Light Up the Border, Watson led caravans of up to 600
automobiles that shined their headlights across the dark divide, ostensibly to
illuminate the passage of undocumented immigrants.

Watson also clashed with Taco Bell over its previous advertising campaign, "Run
For the Border," which she says conjured images of illicit immigration, drug
smuggling and gun running.

Hispanic magazine termed "Run for the Border" the worst sales pitch of 1991.
Critics deemed the theme insensitive.

"I wrote to them and said, 'Knock that off,' " recalls Watson, who says she
employed Light Up the Border stationery. Imagine Watson's surprise, then, when
she - like an estimated 75 million Super Bowl viewers Jan. 29 - watched the
initial Taco Bell advertisement that cryptically introduced "Border Lights." No
reference to a low-calorie menu was made. "I nearly fainted dead away, " she
says. "The phones started ringing off the hook."

Taco Bell Vice President Jonathan Blum rejects inferences that "Border Lights"
might be linked to - or confused with - Light Up the Border or U.S. Border
Patrol activity in the region.

"This has nothing to do with that. We've been using 'border' as our theme for
many, many years," Blum said. "The cross-border theme is a state of mind, not a
geographic location. It's about an adventurous journey, not a location."

Dolores Valdes, owner of the Century City advertising firm that creates Taco
Bell's Spanish-language advertisements, said, "Border lights is just the name of
a product. (It) is just something new and exciting from the border."

Taco Bell's two advertising firms - Costa Mesa, Calif.-based Bozell/Salvati
Montgomery Sakoda and Dallas-based Richards Group - declined to comment.

But Zeke Hernandez, secretary of the Santa Ana chapter of the Hispanic activist
group LULAC, said, "It's a mistake and probably will have a negative impact on
(Taco Bell's) sales."

LOAD-DATE: February 10, 1995

LANGUAGE: English

                  Copyright 1995 St. Louis Post-Dispatch, Inc.


                              92 of 308 DOCUMENTS

                       St. Louis Post-Dispatch (Missouri)

                   March 28, 1995, Tuesday, FIVE STAR Edition

ON GUARD: ARREST RATE OF ILLEGAL IMMIGRANTS IS UP

BYLINE: David Parrish 1995, Los Angeles Daily News

SECTION: WAR PAGE; Pg. 11B

LENGTH: 804 words

DATELINE: LOS ANGELES


THE NUMBER OF illegal immigrants arrested trying to cross the U.S. border from
Mexico has risen sharply in the past two months as a result of tighter border
patrols and the plunging value of the peso, officials say.

Border Patrol agents along the 2,000-mile Mexican border saw nearly a 38 percent
increase in arrests of illegal immigrants in February and a 31 percent increase
so far this month, compared with the same period a year ago.

Those double-digit increases in arrests were carried out just three months after
the peso started its free fall, losing 50 percent of its value compared with the
U.S. dollar and precipitating an economic crisis in Mexico.

Historically, a decline in the value of the peso has led to increased illegal
immigration from Mexico as jobless people migrate north looking for work, said
J. Edward Taylor, a professor at the University of California at Davis. Taylor
studies the link between immigration and the Mexican economy.

After a similar devaluation of the peso in the early 1980s, many Mexicans
learned that tough economic times would persist, Taylor said. Then it was six
months to a year after the peso was devalued before illegal immigration
increased.

This time the migration north for work has occurred much sooner after the peso
devaluation, he said.

"They are seeing the handwriting on the wall," Taylor said. "The big question is
how much of the increase in apprehensions is due to increased enforcement along
the border."

A lot of it, said Border Patrol officials.

"We believe we are seeing indications of pressure from the peso devaluation,"
said Doug Kruhn, assistant Border Patrol commissioner. "But arrests by
themselves are not a good indicator of what is happening on the border."

This year's increase in apprehensions does not necessarily mean that more
illegal immigrants are crossing the border undetected, Kruhn said.

With increased personnel and high-tech tools such as infrared night scopes,
Border Patrol agents are now catching a higher percentage of people crossing
illegally into the United States from Mexico, he said.

"We are being much, much more effective than in the past," said Kruhn.

A long-term Border Patrol study is focusing on the effort's effectiveness.

Along the San Diego section of the border, an increase in personnel - 400
additional agents in the past six months - has been a major factor in the higher
number of apprehensions in the past two months, said Johnny Williams, chief
Border Patrol agent for the San Diego region.

"If you put more fishermen in the stream, you are going to catch more fish,"
Williams said. "You put 400 more officers on the line, and your numbers are
going to go up."

In October, the Border Patrol started Operation Gatekeeper in San Diego, by far
the busiest section of the border for illegal crossings.

With additional personnel and new, high-tech equipment, the number of
apprehensions in San Diego immediately plunged and stayed down for the next four
months. That is testimony to the increased difficulty in crossing the border,
Border Patrol officials said at the time.

Yet in February, the San Diego sector reported a 21 percent increase in
apprehensions of illegal immigrants, and so far this month there has been a 22
percent increase compared with the same period last year.

Still, San Diego-area apprehensions are down nearly 9 percent since the start of
Operation Gatekeeper.

The Immigration and Naturalization Service and the Border Patrol have had
difficulty explaining to the public why low apprehensions once were touted as
proof of success, and now higher apprehensions also are an indication of
increased success along the border.

"Confusion understandably results from apparent contradictory claims about
apprehensions," wrote Doris Meissner, commissioner of the immigration agency, in
a report March 7.

In the Tucson, Ariz., sector and the border town of Nogales, Ariz.,
apprehensions have shot up 113 percent this year.

"We hold people in custody for less than an hour, so you are seeing us arrest
the same people four to five times per day," said Steve McDonald, supervisory
Border Patrol agent of the Tucson sector. "When you catch the same guy five
times a day, they are not getting through. . . . We are catching a greater
percentage of people than we have in the past."

Williams, of the San Diego region, said repeated arrests of the same person also
were affecting the apprehension numbers in San Diego.

"We are having testimony from the aliens every day, saying it's very hard to get
through," Williams said. "One guy said: 'I've been here for nine days, and I
can't get through.' "

Kruhn, assistant Border Patrol commissioner, said: "I am encouraged by what I am
seeing along the border. We have the ability to have an impact."

LOAD-DATE: March 29, 1995

LANGUAGE: English

GRAPHIC: PHOTO; Photo By AP - Waiting game: The man using the plastic bag to
cover himself from rain is in Mexico, apparently waiting for the U.S. Border
Patrol vehicle to leave so he can cross the border illegally. The picture was
taken last fall, before an upsurge in illegal crossings that followed Mexico's
economic problems.

                  Copyright 1995 St. Louis Post-Dispatch, Inc.


                              93 of 308 DOCUMENTS

                       St. Louis Post-Dispatch (Missouri)

               February 25, 1996, Sunday, FIVE STAR LIFT Edition

RAIDS TARGET GANGSTERS IN CHINATOWN

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 5D

LENGTH: 343 words

DATELINE: WASHINGTON


In raids in six states, federal agents have cracked what they believe is a
Chinese gang that terrorized New York's Chinatown and engaged in murder,
extortion, kidnaping and smuggling of aliens.

The raids Thursday and Friday in New York, New Jersey, Virginia, Delaware,
Colorado and Pennsylvania capped a yearlong investigation of the Fukienese
Flying Dragons gang. Authorities described the gang as a violent criminal
enterprise made up mostly of young men from the Chinese province of Fujian, also
known as Fukien.

Sixty-four who are alleged to be gang leaders and members were charged with a
range of violent crimes in eight federal indictments, which were unsealed in
Manhattan federal court Friday. So far, 35 have been arrested, and others are
being sought, officials said.

"This violent gang was responsible for hundreds of kidnappings, robberies, acts
of extortion, and smuggling hundreds of illegal aliens into the United States,"
Attorney General Janet Reno said.

U.S. Attorney Mary Jo White of the Southern District of New York said the gang,
"a large and violent spinoff" from the traditional Flying Dragons organization,
has been "the dominant force in Chinatown since 1990" and is the only remaining
large-scale criminal enterprise there.

With the latest actions against it and other expected arrests, White said, "we
believe we will break the back of the Fukienese Flying Dragons and that we are
finally on the verge of freeing Chinatown from the . . . violence and
lawlessness that have plagued it for decades."

The main indictment, in which 41 defendants are charged with racketeering and
other criminal activity, covers two murders, one attempted murder, four
robberies, five extortions of businesses and eight kidnappings in which more
than 100 Chinese were held.

The Fukienese Flying Dragons were made up mostly of Chinese in their mid- to
late-20s who entered the United States illegally and, in some cases, claimed
political asylum to remain in the country, Immigration and Naturalization
Service officials said.

LOAD-DATE: February 25, 1996

LANGUAGE: English

                  Copyright 1996 St. Louis Post-Dispatch, Inc.


                              94 of 308 DOCUMENTS

                       St. Louis Post-Dispatch (Missouri)

                 April 2, 1996, Tuesday, FIVE STAR LIFT Edition

POLICE CLUB 2 SUSPECTED OF ALIEN SMUGGLING

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 5A

LENGTH: 144 words

DATELINE: LOS ANGELES


Two suspected smugglers of illegal immigrants were clubbed by police Monday
after a high-speed freeway chase that started near the U.S.-Mexican border.

The incident, captured on video by a TV news helicopter hovering overhead,
showed one officer delivering at least six blows with a nightstick to one
suspect even after the man was lying face down on the ground.

The officer then grabbed the second suspect, a woman, by the hair, pulling her
from the cab of the pickup and beating her with his nightstick as reinforcements
arrived to handcuff the pair, who appeared to offer no resistance.

At least one other officer struck the second suspect, the TV images showed.

One local civil rights leader said the action by the Riverside County sheriff's
officers evoked memories of the beating in 1991 of Rodney King by four Los
Angeles police officers.

LOAD-DATE: April 2, 1996

LANGUAGE: English

                  Copyright 1996 St. Louis Post-Dispatch, Inc.


                              95 of 308 DOCUMENTS

                       St. Louis Post-Dispatch (Missouri)

                  November 6, 1992, FRIDAY, FIVE STAR Edition

JUDGE ORDERS TOURIST GROUP TO LEAVE U.S.

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 23A

LENGTH: 354 words


BOSTON - Malaysian tourists detained as witnesses in an immigrant-smuggling case
against their guide were ordered out of the United States on Thursday after
charges were dropped. The guide also was ordered out.  The Malaysians left the
United States on an evening flight to Paris.  The tourists, a group of 24 led by
Chee Kheong Choong, 38, had been detained by immigration agents after arriving
from Paris at Logan Airport on Oct.  21.  ''I'm ordering everyone in this case
to be on flights out of this country today,'' said U.S. Magistrate-Judge
Marianne Bowler. Nine were released and left earlier this week.  Bowler said she
was disturbed the remaining 15 travelers had been held so long when they were
only witnesses. She said prosecutors should have acted faster.  The tourists
were housed at detention centers.  One defense attorney, Norman Zalkind, said
the tourists were honest visitors.  ''If my client were a white European, this
would never have happened,'' said another attorney, Henry Owens.  They had
planned to visit New York, Atlantic City, N.J., and Philadelphia when they were
taken into custody to ensure their testimony against Choong.  U.S. Attorney A.
John Pappalardo's office decided to drop charges of alien smuggling against
Choong because prosecutors had little time to prepare and were unlikely to win,
said Kathleen Griffin, a spokeswoman.  Choong's lawyer, Michael Natola, said his
client ran a legitimate tour agency in Malaysia.  Timothy Whelan, deputy
director for the U.S. Immigration and Naturalization Service in Boston, denied
that racial discrimination was a factor and said such detentions were not
uncommon. (THE FOLLOWING APPEARED IN THE 3* EDITION) Pappalardo said he was
comfortable with the way his office handled the case.  nu Twenty-one of the 24
tour members had overstayed their visas on previous vists to the United States,
some by several years, the Boston Globe reported.  One woman in the tour group
said in a jailhouse interview with the Boston Globe that she had been threatened
with life in prison by interrogators, who accused her of being a prostitute.

LOAD-DATE: October 12, 1993

LANGUAGE: English

                  Copyright 1992 St. Louis Post-Dispatch, Inc.


                              96 of 308 DOCUMENTS

                       St. Louis Post-Dispatch (Missouri)

                 November 2, 1994, WEDNESDAY, FIVE STAR Edition

REPUBLICANS SHOULD SEEK CONSTRUCTIVE SOLUTION TO IMMIGRATION PROBLEMS

BYLINE: Mona Charen Copyright Creators Syndicate Inc.

SECTION: EDITORIAL; Pg. 7B

LENGTH: 592 words

MONA CHAREN COLUMN

DATELINE: WASHINGTON


They shouldn't have said it. That's what some conservatives are saying about the
opposition to California's Proposition 187 by Jack Kemp and William Bennett.

It may be a bad law, they continue, but Kemp and Bennett committed the political
sin of disloyalty by opposing it, especially two weeks before the election.

Were Bennett and Kemp supposed to wait until after the election? Only cynics
would argue that Republicans have a duty to keep silent on important questions
lest they damage a fellow Republican's electoral prospects.

But realistically speaking, the demurral of Kemp and Bennett is more likely to
damage them than hurt Gov. Pete Wilson, who is coasting to re-election on the
strength of Proposition 187.

So much for politics. Now, on to the merits: California's ballot propositions
are extremely accurate weather vanes for the national political climate. What
does Proposition 187 say about the mind of the electorate?

Its more feral opponents say that Proposition 187 is the ugly outbreak of
anti-immigrant bias, xenophobia and racism. That is nonsense. This is not a
measure to cut off legal immigration. It is an expression of frustration and
even disgust at the absurd lengths to which the welfare state has been
stretched.

Proposition 187, in the popular mind, is a bill to prevent illegal immigrants
from receiving welfare benefits including Medicaid and education. The average
Californian, who works hard and pays about 45 percent of her income to
governments (federal, state and local), can be excused if she reasons, "It is
bad enough that I must subsidize a stubborn underclass of Americans who refuse
to work for a living. But it is even worse to be forced to underwrite illegal
immigrants - line jumpers - who come to this country, pay no taxes and don't
even work."

But, as Bennett and Kemp argue, the problem with the average person's
understanding of Proposition 187 is that it is based on a myth. Illegal
immigrants are not eligible, under existing law, to receive welfare or food
stamps. The only benefit Proposition 187 would deny to illegals that they are
receiving legally is education.

It is by no means clear that denying education to the children of illegal
immigrants is good policy - since many children would be turned out onto the
streets, perhaps to join gangs. But it should be added that the impulse to deny
education to the children of illegal aliens is not vicious or hateful. If
someone breaks into my house, must I serve him dinner?

Bennett and Kemp are in favor of alternative measures to control illegal
immigration. They recommend expediting the deportation process for illegals who
are caught and most particularly for illegals who commit crimes in the United
States. According to The New York Times, there were more than 200, 000 illegal
aliens convicted of crimes last year, yet the Immigration and Naturalization
Service deported only 20,000.

They also suggest improving the border patrol and amending rules so that legal
immigrants who are on welfare would not be able to sponsor other immigrants.

Bennett and Kemp worry that conservative and Republican hostility to illegal
immigrants, which is legitimate, is bleeding over into hostility to all
immigrants, which is neither legitimate nor politically smart.

Proposition 187 is likely to pass and just as likely to be ruled
unconstitutional. Serious Republicans should start thinking now about how to
revise it to fit not just the demands of the courts but the longer term
interests of the party and the nation.

LOAD-DATE: November 3, 1994

LANGUAGE: English

                  Copyright 1994 St. Louis Post-Dispatch, Inc.


                              97 of 308 DOCUMENTS

                       St. Louis Post-Dispatch (Missouri)

                  November 11, 1994, FRIDAY, FIVE STAR Edition

CALIFORNIANS JITTERY IN WAKE OF VOTE; ANTI-IMMIGRANT STANCE LEAVES MANY WORRIED

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 1A

LENGTH: 843 words

DATELINE: LOS ANGELES


Elizabeth Parker is so worried about an anti-white backlash against Proposition
187 that she plans to walk her 13-year-old son to his school bus stop each day.

Alma Barajas says many parents in her Hispanic neighborhood are keeping their
children home from school, for fear they might be turned in to immigration
officials.

Fears of racial tension and witch hunts were widespread the day after California
voters approved Proposition 187, which denies public education and nonemergency
health care to illegal immigrants. It also requires doctors, teachers and
welfare workers to turn in suspected illegals.

"Everyone has been given the authority to be a Gestapo," said Marina Vera, who
has taught many illegal students in her 10 years of teaching in San Diego.
"Everyone is going to be turning everyone else in."

Voters approved the measure 59 percent to 41 percent Tuesday. But it was
immediately challenged in court by immigration activists and a coalition of
school districts, which claim it violates basic human rights. A federal judge
barred enforcement of the law for one week until he could hold a hearing, and a
state judge barred expulsions from public schools until a hearing on Feb. 8.

As elected officials in communities up and down California legally challenge
Proposition 187, an angry groundswell of criticism has arisen over use of public
funds to undo what the measure's backers see as a clear mandate from the voters,
The Los Angeles Times reported. Outraged callers Thursday lit up switchboards at
the Los Angeles Unified School District, Los Angeles City Hall and other
agencies that had joined the effort to overturn the measure.

Officials at pro-187 headquarters in Los Angeles said they were inundated with
calls Thursday from supporters wanting to join recall efforts or class-action
lawsuits against officials involved.

Protests against the measure led to arrests in some cities. At least 22 were
arrested in Los Angeles after a small sit-in on the campus of California State
University. Gov. Pete Wilson, a strong backer of the ballot measure, had been
expected to attend the opening of a campus arts center there but canceled his
plans.

"We wanted to come and see his face, so he could tell us in our faces that come
Jan. 1, 1995, he was going to have the gall to deport me, to deport my family,"
said Olga Miranda, one of the demonstrators.

Although the law applies to all illegal immigrants, the campaign focused on
Hispanics, who are on pace to replace non-Hispanic whites as the biggest segment
of California's population in the coming decades.

Two-thirds of Hispanic voters opposed Proposition 187; two-thirds of whites
supported it, along with a majority of blacks and Asians.

Parker, who is white and lives in an immigrant neighborhood, said she did not
vote for or against the law.

She watched about 250 students walk out of school Wednesday in Concord, in
northern California. Although she did not understand some of their Spanish
placards, she was haunted by the red splattered paint on them. "It was the color
of blood," she said.

"I don't want anybody to be hurt. I just don't know where the anger might go.
I'm going to protect my kid. I think the proposition is going to cause problems.
I'm so angry."

Jesse Shatkin, 16, a Hispanic who joined a protest on Los Angeles' west side,
predicted that if one student were taken out of classes because of the new law,
most other students would walk out. Two-thirds of the city's 640, 000 public
school students are Hispanic.

"It's time to stand up for what we believe in, and we're not going to sit back
and watch our fellow students denied an education," Shatkin said.

There was more fear than anger in San Diego's heavily Hispanic Logan Heights
neighborhood.

"I'm confused because some people are saying I have to carry a birth certificate
like a dog tag if I'm Hispanic," said Guillermo Perez, 33, a school custodian.

Barajas, who also lives in Logan Heights, said many parents kept students home
from her children's elementary school Wednesday. She sent her two children to
school because they are U.S. citizens.

The law's supporters insist that their agenda is not racist, but economic. They
say Californians are fed up with spending tax dollars on people who they say do
not belong in the state. Wilson's office says the state has spent over $ 2
billion a year on services for illegal aliens.

State Attorney General Dan Lungren has vowed to back Proposition 187 all the way
to the U.S. Supreme Court. Supporters plan to take their campaign to other
states and to Washington in the hope of overturning the U.S. Supreme Court's
1982 ruling requiring states to provide all residents with a public education.

"It's opened up enormous wounds that are going to take a long time to heal,"
said Cecilia Munoz of the National Council of La Raza, a moderate Hispanic
advocacy group in Washington. "Clearly, there are people out there who find the
growth of the Latino population in America and in California very threatening."

LOAD-DATE: November 16, 1994

LANGUAGE: English

GRAPHIC: PHOTO; Color Photo By AP - Shanta Rodezno (center) and her daughter,
Jennie, celebrate their new U.S. citizenship Thursday in Los Angeles; their joy
was tempered by Proposition 187. (Note: This same photo also appeared in the
Three Star Editions with following cutline: Shanta Rodezno (center) and her
daughter, Jennie, (right) wave flags after being sworn in Thursday as new
citizens at the Convention Center in Los Angeles.)

                  Copyright 1994 St. Louis Post-Dispatch, Inc.


                              98 of 308 DOCUMENTS

                       St. Louis Post-Dispatch (Missouri)

                April 16, 1996, Tuesday, FIVE STAR LIFT Edition

TEEN FROM TOGO IN CENTER OF KEY IMMIGRATION CASE; FOR 1ST TIME, U.S. BOARD TO
WEIGH MUTILATION THREAT AS REASON FOR ASYLUM -

BYLINE: Celia W. Dugger New York Times News Service

SECTION: WAR PAGE; Pg. 9B

LENGTH: 824 words

DATELINE: YORK, PA.


FAUZIYA KASINGA SAYS she fled her homeland of Togo at age 17 to avoid the tribal
rite of female genital mutilation and an arranged marriage as the fourth wife of
a man nearly three times her age. When she arrived at Newark International
Airport in New Jersey, she felt sure that she would find sanctuary in a country
that "believed in justice."

Instead, she has passed her 18th and 19th birthdays behind bars. First,
immigration officials took her to the Esmor detention center in Elizabeth, N.J.,
where she describes being shackled in chains at times, denied sanitary napkins
and put in an isolation cell.

Last June, she was tear-gassed and beaten during a melee at the Esmor detention
center, where immigration authorities later concluded that guards had abused
detainees.

After the Esmor uprising, she and many other asylum seekers who entered this
country illegally in the New York area were sent to prisons in Pennsylvania,
where she has been strip-searched and locked in a maximum security cell with an
American convict - an account confirmed by York County Prison warden Thomas H.
Hogan.

"I feel empty, mute," Kasinga said Friday in a barely audible whisper, as she
sat in her prison blues at the York prison. "I keep asking myself, 'What did I
do to deserve such punishment? What did I do?' "

Kasinga's two-year ordeal will reach a critical juncture May 2, when the Board
of Immigration Appeals, the highest administrative tribunal in the nation's
immigration system, will consider her asylum request.

Immigration officials and advocates for refugees say her case is likely to set
an important precedent that could influence the handling of a broad array of
claims from women who have suffered because of discriminatory cultural practices
in their home countries.

"It's the first case in which the board will directly take on the issue of
female genital mutilation as the basis for an asylum claim," said Karen Musalo,
the lead lawyer for Kasinga at the International Human Rights Clinic, American
University, Washington College of Law.

By law, people can win asylum if they are found to have a well-founded fear of
persecution because of their race, religion, nationality, political opinions or
membership in a social group. The statute does not mention gender.

Kasinga's lawyers contend that she is a member of a social group: young women of
the Tchamba Kunsuntu tribe who resist genital mutilation.

The rite is widespread in 26 African nations. Typically, a tribal elder cuts off
the clitoris and sometimes other portions of a woman's genitals without
anesthesia. It often leads to serious health problems or even death, which,
according to Kasinga, was the fate of her maternal aunt. The World Health
Organization estimates that 85 million to 114 million girls and women have been
mutilated.

The board's ruling in the Kasinga case will be binding on the nation's 179
immigration judges, who have been divided in their handling of such cases, still
a rarity.

Paul A. Nejelski, a judge in Arlington, Va., granted asylum to a woman from
Sierra Leone last August because he said the rite violated her basic human
rights.

But John F. Gossart Jr., a judge in Baltimore, denied asylum to another woman
from Sierra Leone last April. He said the woman could not change her gender, but
she could choose whether to submit to her tribe's customary genital mutilation.

At the appeal hearing on the Kasinga case, lawyers for the U.S. Immigration and
Naturalization Service will argue for a new legal framework that would allow
genital mutilation to be a reason for granting asylum in carefully defined
circumstances.

Beyond the issue of asylum, human rights advocates say Kasinga's case
illustrates the injustice of the U.S. Immigration and Naturalization Service's
practice of detaining asylum seekers in prisons that are far from lawyers and
families and inadequately supervised by the agency.

Immigration officials said the asylum seekers were detained in part because of a
quirk in the law that treats people entering the country illegally at an airport
more severely than those who are caught within the nation's borders.

They said they released those who appeared to have credible claims and family
ties in United States.

Kasinga said she believed that immigration authorities were just hea rtless. She
said the prospect of being deported to Togo terrified her.

Merrick Polansky, an anthropology professor emeritus at the University of
California at Los Angeles, who has testified on her behalf, says she is right to
be afraid. The professor, who has done research in Togo since 1979, said women
in Kasinga's tribe were sometimes forced into polygamous marriages and forced to
undergo genital mutilation.

Her story is highly believable, he said. And if she is deported, the police,
demoralized and underpaid, would almost certainly return her to her husband for
a bribe, the professor said.

LOAD-DATE: April 16, 1996

LANGUAGE: English

                  Copyright 1996 St. Louis Post-Dispatch, Inc.


                              99 of 308 DOCUMENTS

                       St. Louis Post-Dispatch (Missouri)

                 January 28, 1993, THURSDAY, FIVE STAR Edition

LETTERS FROM THE PEOPLE

SECTION: EDITORIAL; Pg. 2C

LENGTH: 816 words


Baird Wasn't Person For The Job

Zoe Baird has withdrawn as President Clinton's nominee for attorney general. As
everyone knows, she and her husband knowingly broke an immigration law by
employing illegal aliens for child care and other duties.

I felt outraged that one who would oversee enforcement of the nation's
immigration laws should have broken those laws. I also felt troubled that a
woman making more than $ 500,000 a year needed live-in child care and a driver
so much that she hired a couple in this country illegally.

Why does no one ask about the child-care arrangements of Clinton's male
nominees, especially those who made more than $ 500,000 last year? Why does
everyone think Baird, rather than her husband, should have made the child-care
arrangements? Why do we scoff at Baird's being driven to and from work when top
male executives often use chauffeurs so they can work in the car?

We should be angry about a double standard that serves only the rich; we also
should be angry at a double standard that penalizes only women.  Rebecca S.
Stith Clayton Being a full-time day-care giver and a 40-hour-a-week health-care
worker. I have one more thing to say about my situation. I am a male, the father
of my two day-care charges.

When Zoe Baird and her husband were considering day-care alternatives, did they
talk about staying home with their child? Since Baird earns more than $ 500,000,
it is inconceivable that they could not have given up one of their incomes.

This case is not at all unique. Too many parents are unwilling to sacrifice a
career for the choice of bringing up their own child. I personally had hoped
that the "me first" era had ended when we ended the Reagan-Bush presidencies.

Sadly, it is not true. I feel only sorrow for Baird, since she will never have
the kind of closeness with her son that I enjoy with my two children. We all
make sacrifices, and she chose to sacrifice the love and joy of a close
parent-child relationship.

David Mosblech Crestwood One reason that many households may hire illegal aliens
could be because these aliens so often supply an efficient and willing quality
of domestic service that is otherwise unavailable in the United States.

Jane Robinson St. Louis Thomas Eagleton's Jan. 24 column about Zoe Baird was
right on target. How an enlightened administration could nominate an
acquaintance of a friend of Hillary Clinton to this sensitive office boggles the
imagination. Clinton was said to have no real personal knowledge of his nominee.
Not so slick, Willie!  And if this is the quality of advice our president will
be getting from his inner circle in the future, hang on.

Don Scherbring Florissant The Jan. 23 editorial, "Justice And Zoe Baird,"
implied that Baird was judged more harshly because she was a woman and that if a
male candidate had done what she had done, the offense would have been glossed
over; hence, the implication of a double standard.

There indeed was a double standard used in the Baird nomination, and gender bias
was applied. When looking at this bias, however, the question to ask: Would a
person of Baird's qualifications - no civil rights or criminal justice
experience - and her points of view - pro-big business, anti-whistle blowers and
no pro bono work - even have been considered by Clinton's administration if she
were a man?

Baird's nomination got off to a bad start when Bill Clinton let it be known that
only women need apply for the job. To exclude a qualified person for the job
because of that person's gender is wrong. To seek a person for a job because of
that person's gender is wrong. Two wrongs never make a right. It only
perpetuates injustice. Do we want attorneys general perpetuating injustice?

Hilliard J. Goldman Kirkwood An important point was underscored by the Zoe Baird
confirmation hearings. It is not just Baird who comes out of this looking bad,
but Congress also, especially by comparison. Though she had broken the law, I
doubt that someone with her income and profile would hire illegal aliens just to
avoid paying Social Security taxes. She probably acted out of kindness. Also she
withdrew on her own accord to take the heat off President Clinton.

It is Congress that looks even worse because it was such a bad judge of public
opinion (and ethics). After the news broke about Baird, its members told the
president it would not be an obstacle in the confirmation.  However, when there
was an overwhelming negative reaction from the public, they backed down on this.

It seems while members of Congress are willing to be pragmatists concerning
ethics, the people are not. Nor did they look like they had any idea how their
constituents would feel about this until the letters and calls came rolling in.
This only seems to add more fuel to the argument to clean house in Congress.

John Conrades Jr.  Oakville

LOAD-DATE: September 29, 1993

LANGUAGE: English

TYPE: LETTERS

                  Copyright 1993 St. Louis Post-Dispatch, Inc.


                              100 of 308 DOCUMENTS

                       St. Louis Post-Dispatch (Missouri)

                  January 24, 1993, Sunday, FIVE STAR Edition

HOPEFUL EMPLOYED 2 ILLEGALS; PROBABLE OPPONENT ADMITS SAME THING

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 3A

LENGTH: 343 words

DATELINE: TRENTON, N.J.


A likely gubernatorial candidate has acknowledged Friday that she employed
illegal aliens and said she made the disclosure because of the furor that doomed
President Clinton's choice for attorney general.

Within hours, Christie Whitman's announcement prompted Cary Edwards, her likely
opponent in the Republican primary, to disclose that he too had employed an
illegal alien.

Whitman, former president of the state agency that regulates public utilities,
nearly beat Sen. Bill Bradley, D-N.J., when she ran against him in 1990. She is
scheduled to announce her gubernatorial candidacy Wednesday.

Whitman said she had employed illegal aliens in her home for 3 1/2 years. She
said she made the disclosure because of the controversy surrounding Zoe Baird, a
corporate lawyer who withdrew her name from consideration for U.S. attorney
general Friday because she employed illegal aliens to care for her son.

Whitman said and her husband, John, employed two Portuguese natives from
December 1986 through July 1990, when they were in the country illegally.

Whitman said she worked with an immigration attorney after hiring them to pursue
legal status for them. She said they had continued working for her since
becoming legal residents in April 1991.

Whitman also said she and her husband didn't pay taxes on the illegal aliens'
wages between December 1986 and July 1990 and for two months after the couple
became legal residents. She said all applicable wage taxes have been paid and
reported to the Internal Revenue Service since July 1991.

Whitman said she has begun discussions with an attorney and intends to pay the
outstanding taxes on the unreported wages "as quickly as possible."

Later Friday, Edwards, who already has kicked off his gubernatorial campaign,
said he hired a Portuguese citizen in 1989, knowing she was an illegal alien. He
said he arranged for a lawyer to represent her before the U.S. Immigration and
Naturalization Service and she returned to Portugal, where she eventually was
granted legal U.S. resident status.

LOAD-DATE: August 31, 1995

LANGUAGE: English

                  Copyright 1993 St. Louis Post-Dispatch, Inc.


                              101 of 308 DOCUMENTS

                       St. Louis Post-Dispatch (Missouri)

                  November 25, 1994, Friday, FIVE STAR Edition

ALIENS AWAIT COURT DECISION ON NEW LAW

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 7C

LENGTH: 378 words

DATELINE: LOS ANGELES


She said that her name was Maria and that she had slipped across the border from
Mexico three years ago.

No, she said, no one had ever asked her for any proof of legal residence. You do
not go where people ask questions, she explained.

She said she had signed up for English classes at an area high school, because
she knew no immigration questions would be asked. And, she went on, at the
Clinica Para Las Americas, where she was waiting with her son, Leo, 2, to see a
doctor, no one ever asked such questions.

"You learn where to go and how to do things," she explained.

But wouldn't all that change now that Proposition 187 had been passed by
California voters?

What would she do should the courts not throw out the provisions of the new law
that instruct teachers and doctors to turn her away and report her if she cannot
produce proof of legal residence?

"I don't know," she replied, speaking through a translator but throwing in a few
new-found words of English. "Maybe I'll return to Mexico. Maybe not.n Let's see
what the courts decide."

All over California, particularly Southern California, undocumented aliens such
as Maria - she withheld her last name - are watching and waiting. Uncertainty is
about the only certain thing in an illegal immigrant's life, and Proposition 187
is the biggest uncertainty yet.

The measure's supporters argue that, if it survives court challenges, it will
put an end to California taxpayers' shelling out more than $ 3 billion each year
for education and health benefits for illegal aliens. But opponents say
Proposition 187 will cause more harm than good and, in fact, is so draconian
that it is unconstitutional.

In any case, even in legal limbo, Proposition 187 appears already to be having
some impact on California's huge undocumented immigrant population.

School officials report that some immigrant children they believe to be in the
country are being withheld illegally from classes by their families, though the
attendance falloff is not yet very significant.

Officials at medical clinics that serve poor immigrants, such as Clinica Para
Las Americas in the MacArthur Park section of central Los Angeles, say they also
have noted a falloff in patients they believe to be illegal aliens.

LOAD-DATE: September 9, 1995

LANGUAGE: English

                  Copyright 1994 St. Louis Post-Dispatch, Inc.


                              102 of 308 DOCUMENTS

                       St. Louis Post-Dispatch (Missouri)

               August 19, 1995, Saturday, FIVE STAR LIFT Edition

JURY INDICTS 9 IN SLAVE LABOR CASE

BYLINE: The Associated Press

SECTION: BUSINESS; Pg. 14A

LENGTH: 185 words

DATELINE: LOS ANGELES


Nine Thai nationals including a 65-year-old boss called "Auntie" were indicted
by a federal grand jury for allegedly running a sweatshop that enslaved illegal
immigrants.

Eight of the defendants, five men and three women, were to be arraigned Monday
before U.S. Magistrate Charles F. Eich, said Carole Levitzky, spokeswoman for
U.S. Attorney Nora M. Manella. They were being held without bail.

A ninth was in Thailand, where a warrant for his arrest would be issued,
Levitzky said.

The indictment handed up Thursday included charges of conspiracy, transporting
an illegal immigrant, harboring an illegal immigrant, inducing an illegal
immigrant to enter the United States and employing illegal immigrants.

The indictment alleges the defendants recruited workers, most of them women, in
Thailand and took them to an El Monte apartment complex where a labor camp was
set up to make clothing.

California state labor officials said many manufacturers contracted with SK
Fashions, which ran the sweatshop, and that some of the garments were
unknowingly bought by many of the nation's top retailers.

LOAD-DATE: August 20, 1995

LANGUAGE: English

                  Copyright 1995 St. Louis Post-Dispatch, Inc.


                              103 of 308 DOCUMENTS

                       St. Louis Post-Dispatch (Missouri)

              September 28, 1995, Thursday, FIVE STAR LIFT Edition

SWEATSHOPS IN FASHION IN LA; GARMENT FIRMS THRIVE ON CHEAP, ILLEGAL LABOR

BYLINE: The Associated Press

SECTION: BUSINESS; Pg. 1C

LENGTH: 495 words

DATELINE: LOS ANGELES


Sweatshops seem to be everywhere in the aging buildings in this city's bustling
garment district.

Labor enforcement officials call it a growing, seemingly intractable problem: a
booming fashion industry that thrives on the region's cheap and plentiful
immigrant labor.

"I cannot say it's a good job," says Miguel Perez, a transplant from Puebla,
Mexico, his thin body hunched over a sewing machine at a shop on 8th Street.
"But what else is there to do?"

Southern California is home to about 10,000 garment shops - about half of them
illegal. The local clothes-making business - the largest in the nation - has
tripled in the past five years to an $ 8-billion-a-year industry.

Working for as little as $ 1.50 an hour, illegal immigrants show up before dawn
and often toil late into the night in gritty, sweltering conditions.

Driven by clothing designers and manufacturers who want more for less, and by
desperate competitors, employers demand more of their sweatshop workers while
lowering their wages.

Last month state and federal investigators raided an El Monte sweatshop and
found 72 Thai immigrants laboring under slave-like conditions. The clothes made
in the cramped factory found their way to the racks of the nation's top stores,
from Mervyn's to Bullock's to Neiman Marcus.

The Labor Department named the Hecht division of St. Louis-based May Department
Stores Co. and Venture Stores Inc. of O'Fallon, Mo., as possible receivers of
the clothes.

Later in August, authorities detained 55 people, including a 12-year-old girl,
at three Los Angeles sweatshops.

But manufacturers and retailers alike expressed shock when they learned that
some of their merchandise was made in abusive and illegal work environments.

Analysts say the industry's cutthroat nature encourages shady production
tactics. Moreover, the recent recession is driving many retailers into
bankruptcy and out of business.

That leaves a few major retailers and a handful of gigantic discount chains,
consolidating the industry in the hands of a select few who make decisions that
once were the province of suppliers.

"It allows the retailers to basically dictate the terms of the relationship, in
terms of quality, in terms of design - and in terms of price," said Carl
Steidtmann of Management Horizons, a retail consulting firm in Columbus, Ohio.

Despite increasing pressure on businesses to reform, the area's willing and
illegal labor force not only remains, but grows.

Antonio Martinez, a worker at Twin Fashions, told state labor inspectors that he
made $ 173 at his last job for two weeks of work, finally quitting because his
employers refused to pay him for at least 19 hours of labor. But he seemed
reluctant to pursue a complaint.

"From what I've seen, everybody's paid the same and that's just what they pay
you," said Martinez, a 20-year-old who arrived mid-August in Los Angeles from
Mexico. "If you want to make more, you just work faster."

LOAD-DATE: September 28, 1995

LANGUAGE: English

GRAPHIC: PHOTO; Color Photo by Associated Press - Miguel Perez, from Puebla,
Mexico, carries clothing in Los Angeles for Twin Fashions, a sewing shop that
stitches dresses for a major women's label. The garment district is full of
sweat shops.

                  Copyright 1995 St. Louis Post-Dispatch, Inc.


                              104 of 308 DOCUMENTS

                       St. Louis Post-Dispatch (Missouri)

                  May 7, 1996, Tuesday, FIVE STAR LIFT Edition

MEXICO WARNS U.S. DELEGATION ON MIGRATION

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 3A

LENGTH: 266 words

DATELINE: MEXICO CITY


Secretary of State Warren Christopher led eight U.S. Cabinet members to Mexico
on Monday in a show of confidence in the closeness of U.S.-Mexican relations.

But the team ran immediately into Mexican resentment over recent bloody
incidents involving the treatment of illegal immigrants in California.

Mexican Foreign Minister Angel Gurria said, "We are deeply concerned by the
emergence of trends that could jeopardize our relations and lead us down the
road to confrontation and complaint."

Gurria alluded to recent incidents in California in which police chases led to
the deaths of 10 migrants hidden in smugglers' vans and to the televised beating
of two suspected illegal migrants by sheriff's deputies. He said Mexico intended
to protect its citizens.

"We will always ask for the identification and punishment for those that abuse
their rights, as well as the appropriate compensation for damages," the foreign
minister said.

The Americans were in a far more upbeat mood. Christopher said the United States
and Mexico had now "forged the closest partnership in our history."

The two Cabinets convened a periodic two-day meeting of what is known as the
U.S.-Mexico Binational Commission. For 15 years, the officials have been
overseeing a series of working groups discussing issues between the two nations.

But despite the high-level cast of participants, the Cabinet members plan to
sign only a handful of minor agreements today, agreements that have been worked
out by subordinates in recent weeks. The conference, as a result, may be more
symbolic than substantive.

LOAD-DATE: May 7, 1996

LANGUAGE: English

                  Copyright 1996 St. Louis Post-Dispatch, Inc.


                              105 of 308 DOCUMENTS

                       St. Louis Post-Dispatch (Missouri)

                   May 8, 1996, Wednesday, THREE STAR Edition

U.S., MEXICO AGREE ON POLICY OUTLINING RIGHTS FOR ILLEGALS

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 3A

LENGTH: 353 words

DATELINE: MEXICO CITY


Illegal aliens stopped by police in the United States will be entitled to have
the arresting officer read them their rights and will be allowed to have a
consular official present during questioning.

The new policy, which accords foreigners some of the key rights enjoyed by U.S.
citizens, was explained to the Mexican government Tuesday in the form of a
diplomatic "memorandum of understanding." The memorandum was the outcome of two
days of talks attended by high-level delegations from the two countries.

The U.S. delegation, led by Secretary of State Warren Christopher, included nine
Cabinet officers and scores of lower-ranking officials.

After the discussions ended, Christopher called on Mexican President Ernesto
Zedillo and hailed the agreement, saying it will protect the civil rights of
both Mexican and U.S. citizens.

The negotiations followed a series of incidents in California over the past five
weeks in which 10 Mexican citizens were killed following police pursuits and two
others were beaten by California police officers.

In Mexico, the incidents provoked demands for action by the government. Mexicans
continue to be indignant over the adoption by California voters in 1994 of
Proposition 187, a referendum item that denied most government benefits to
undocumented foreigners and their children.

Their indignation was enhanced last week when the U.S. Senate approved 97-3 a
bill to double the size of the Border Patrol, stiffen penalties for document
fraud and speed deportation of immigrants.

Mexican Foreign Secretary Angel Gurria said Monday night that unless the current
trend of migration problems is reversed, the two countries could be headed for a
confrontation.

While regretting the recent incidents in California, the U.S. delegation
stressed that all were related to the rings of Mexicans engaged in smuggling
people into the United States.

In a separate statement, the two delegations expressed a firm commitment "to
intensify their actions against criminals (who) profit from others' hardships
and to invigorate activities to combat trafficking in migrants."

LOAD-DATE: May 8, 1996

LANGUAGE: English

                  Copyright 1996 St. Louis Post-Dispatch, Inc.


                              106 of 308 DOCUMENTS

                       St. Louis Post-Dispatch (Missouri)

                 May 8, 1996, Wednesday, FIVE STAR LIFT Edition

U.S., MEXICO AGREE ON POLICY OUTLINING RIGHTS FOR ILLEGALS

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 3A

LENGTH: 364 words

DATELINE: MEXICO CITY


Illegal aliens stopped by police in the United States will be entitled to have
the arresting officer read them their rights and will be allowed to have a
consular official present during questioning.

The new policy, which accords foreigners some of the key rights enjoyed by U.S.
citizens, was explained to the Mexican government Tuesday in the form of a
diplomatic "memorandum of understanding." The memorandum was the outcome of two
days of talks attended by high-level delegations from the two countries.

The U.S. delegation, led by Secretary of State Warren Christopher, included nine
Cabinet officers and scores of lower-ranking officials.

After the discussions ended, Christopher called on Mexican President Ernesto
Zedillo and hailed the agreement, saying it will protect the civil rights of
both Mexican and U.S. citizens.

Christopher said he had seen a "very historic and positive transformation" of
their relationship in the last four years.

The negotiations followed a series of incidents in California over the past five
weeks in which 10 Mexican citizens were killed following police pursuits and two
others were beaten by California police officers.

In Mexico, the incidents provoked demands for action by the government. Mexicans
continue to be indignant over the adoption by California voters in 1994 of
Proposition 187, a referendum item that denied most government benefits to
undocumented foreigners and their children.

Their indignation was enhanced last week when the U.S. Senate approved 97-3 a
bill to double the size of the Border Patrol, stiffen penalties for document
fraud and speed deportation of immigrants.

While regretting the recent incidents in California, the U.S. delegation
stressed that all were related to the rings of Mexicans engaged in smuggling
people into the United States.

In a separate statement, the two delegations expressed a firm commitment "to
intensify their actions against criminals (who) profit from others' hardships
and to invigorate activities to combat trafficking in migrants."

Ten other agreements signed Tuesday related to a range of subjects from cocaine
traffic to sharing earthquake data.

LOAD-DATE: May 8, 1996

LANGUAGE: English

                  Copyright 1996 St. Louis Post-Dispatch, Inc.


                              107 of 308 DOCUMENTS

                       St. Louis Post-Dispatch (Missouri)

                   June 8, 1996, Saturday, FIVE STAR Edition

VIGILANTES ON THE PROWL

SECTION: EDITORIAL; Pg. 12B

LENGTH: 345 words


The spirit of vigilantism lives in San Diego, where self-appointed guardians of
the U.S. border with Mexico have formed what they call the U.S. Citizens Patrol
to keep an eye out for illegal aliens. Fortunately, the spirit of the rule of
law is also alive and well; a judge has issued an order keeping the immigration
posse from prowling inside the airport terminal. Citizens who take the law into
their own hands often represent a cure as bad as the disease.

Members of the U.S. Citizens Patrol wear blue T-shirts with gold lettering that
resemble the uniforms of the U.S. Border Patrol and the Customs Service. They
had been gathering in the terminal at San Diego's Lindbergh Field in their
search for people they feel are entering the country illegally.

Hispanic groups complained to the U.S. attorney's office that members of the
patrol had intimidated travelers by asking them to show identification. Patrol
members say they had not talked to passengers but had only asked airline
employees to check passengers' identification as required by the Federal
Aviation Administration.

Federal authorities who investigated the situation said they had found no laws
violated. Still, Judge William J. Howatt of San Diego County Superior Court
issued an order that limits the Citizens Patrol to designated areas outside the
terminal.

The problem, of course, is that such citizens' groups tend to harass anyone who
looks Hispanic, without regard to whether that person is an American citizen or
has valid immigration documents. Such prejudice and racial stereotyping is bound
to stir resentment and even confrontation in an area where illegal immigration
is a touchy subject.

It's not as if the government is ignoring potential problems. A spokesman for
the Immigration and Naturalization Service says that up to two dozen illegal
immigrants a day are caught at the San Diego airport. If still more go
undetected, the government should provide additional help. It doesn't need bands
of local residents who are looking for trouble and de termined to find it.

LOAD-DATE: June 8, 1996

LANGUAGE: English

TYPE: EDITORIAL

                  Copyright 1996 St. Louis Post-Dispatch, Inc.


                              108 of 308 DOCUMENTS

                       St. Louis Post-Dispatch (Missouri)

                   June 23, 1992, TUESDAY, FIVE STAR Edition

OTHER COURT ACTION

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 9A

LENGTH: 431 words


In other Supreme Court action Monday: Capital punishment: The court upheld a
Louisiana killer's death sentence as it told federal judges nationwide to be
stingy in granting hearings to state prison inmates whose initial round of
federal court appeals has failed.  Voting 6-3, the justices said such inmates
are not entitled to federal court hearings unless they can show ''by clear and
convincing evidence that but for a constitutional error, no reasonable juror
would have found (the defendant) eligible for the death penalty under the
applicable state law.'' Mental competency: The court ruled that the rights of
criminal defendants are not violated by requiring them to bear the burden of
proving they are incompetent to stand trial.  The 7-2 decision upheld the
conviction of a California death row inmate who said prosecutors should have had
the burden of proving he was mentally competent to stand trial for three murders
in 1984.  Illegal aliens: The court agreed to decide whether lower federal
courts improperly extended the deadline for illegal aliens seeking amnesty to
remain in the United States.  The court will hear an appeal from the Bush
administration that could affect the fates of more than 300,000 illegal
immigrants.  U.S. banks abroad: The court left intact a ruling that U.S. banks
with branch offices overseas must pay depositors when foreign governments freeze
those accounts.  Confronting witnesses: The court turned down an invitation to
rule that criminal defendants have no right to confront witnesses who testify
against them at pretrial hearings. The court, without comment, let stand a
ruling that said a pretrial hearing held for two men from Michigan violated
their rights because a masked informer testified against them. The men were
later convicted on cocaine-related charges.  John Lennon files: The court gave a
preliminary victory to a history professor from California in a nine-year legal
fight to obtain secret FBI files on the late John Lennon of the Beatles.  The
court, over one dissenting vote, turned down an FBI appeal aimed at killing the
1983 suit seeking the bureau 's Lennon files.  Illinois death row appeal: The
court turned down an appeal by an Illinois death row inmate, Hernando Williams,
who was convicted of the murder in 1978 of a woman he abducted from the parking
lot of the Chicago-area hospital where she worked. The court let stand rulings
that Williams received a fair trial and proper sentence.  Indian lands: The
court let stand a ruling that Indian tribes may tax railroad property on their
reservations.

LOAD-DATE: October 11, 1993

LANGUAGE: English

                  Copyright 1992 St. Louis Post-Dispatch, Inc.


                              109 of 308 DOCUMENTS

                       St. Louis Post-Dispatch (Missouri)

                 January 20, 1993, WEDNESDAY, FIVE STAR Edition

BAIRD APOLOGIZES FOR BREAKING LAW; ATTORNEY GENERAL NOMINEE EXPLAINS HIRING OF
ILLEGAL IMMIGRANTS

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 6A

LENGTH: 572 words

DATELINE: WASHINGTON


Attorney General-designate Zoe Baird apologized Tuesday for hiring illegal
immigrants. She said she acted as a mother instead of a lawyer when she broke
federal law to obtain care for her young son.

"It was a violation of the law," Baird told the Senate Judiciary Committee.
"Our decision to hire the couple was wrong, and I deeply regret it."

She laid part of the blame for the incident on her husband, Yale Law school
professor Paul D. Gewirtz.

Sen. Joseph R. Biden Jr., D-Del., indicated that he would call her husband as a
witness for additional questioning about their employment in 1990 of a Peruvian
couple that had entered the United States illegally and lacked work permits.

"To me, this is a big deal," Biden scolded Baird. "Your husband, a leading
constitutional lawyer, should know better and did know better. . . . The vast
majority (of Americans) have child-care difficulties, with one-fiftieth of the
income you and your husband have, and they do not violate the law."

Baird, 40, earned $ 507,000 last year as general counsel and vice president of
the Aetna Life & Casualty Company.

Baird said she had tried for two months to find someone to care for her son,
Julian, who was eight months old when the Peruvians, Victor and Lillian Cordero,
were hired in July 1990. Baird's husband hired them through an employment agency
and knew at the time that they were in the country illegally, she said.

One year later, she said, he filed a request to the Department of Labor
requesting permission to hire the couple because no American citizens could be
found to fill the jobs. In April 1992, she said, her husband filed a request
with the Immigration Service for work permits. Both requests had been pending
when the Peruvians were let go by Baird and her husband. The dismissal came
after Clinton won the nomination.

The Corderos were paid $ 2,000 a month, or about $ 250 each per week, Baird
testified, and were given two weeks of paid vacation, four paid holidays and a
Christmas bonus.

Baird said she and her husband did not pay Social Security or unemployment
insurance taxes for the couple because they were told this could not be done
until the Corderos received Social Security numbers. After Baird's selection by
Clinton, a lawyer with the transition team found a way for $ 12,000 in back
taxes, interest and penalties to be paid. The payment was made earlier this
month.

In addition, Baird paid a $ 2,900 civil fine to the immigration service last
weekend.

Baird was subjected to intense questioning by both Democrats and Republicans on
the 18-member judiciary panel.

"Clearly, there is public concern," said committee member Sen. Paul Simon,
D-Ill. He said his Washington office had received 84 calls against Baird and
only three in favor, while his Chicago office received 81 against and four in
favor of confirmation.

A new committee member, Sen. Carol Moseley-Braun, D-Ill., suggested the panel
corroborate Baird's version of events by seeking testimony from Gewirtz and from
Thomas Belote, the Connecticut lawyer who advised them.

But the larger issue, some senators said, was a matter of perception: "I think
the greatest concern that all of us have is that others will see this as a
flouting of the law," said Sen. Alan K. Simpson, R-Wyo. "They will see it as
privilege, elitism, lawyers do it, others do it, people in the high parts of
society do it. . . . "

LOAD-DATE: September 29, 1993

LANGUAGE: English

GRAPHIC: PHOTO; Photo by AP - Attorney General-designate Zoe Baird testifying
Tuesday before the Senate Judiciary Committee.

                  Copyright 1993 St. Louis Post-Dispatch, Inc.


                              110 of 308 DOCUMENTS

                       St. Louis Post-Dispatch (Missouri)

                  January 26, 1993, TUESDAY, FIVE STAR Edition

CAR STOPPED ON VIOLATION REVEALS 13 ILLEGAL ALIENS

BYLINE: Nordeka English Of the St. Charles Post

SECTION: ST. CHARLES; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 307 words


St. Charles County Sheriff's deputies stopped a white, 1977 Dodge that lacked a
brake light and whose driver failed to signal a turn. They uncovered a smuggling
operation that was trying to take 13 illegal aliens to various places throughout
the country, authorities say.

Sheriff Ray Runyon said the van was stopped about 11 p.m. Saturday on the South
Service Road for Interstate 70 near Lake Saint Louis. Inside, they found 15 men,
none of whom spoke English well. They turned the men over to the Immigration and
Naturalization Service in St. Louis.

Chester Moyer, officer in charge of the office, said Monday that all 15 men were
citizens of Mexico. Moyer said two men, suspected to be part of the smuggling
operation, had been released on Saturday. The two had the buff-colored card that
allows them to live and work permanently in the United States.

Moyer said the 13 others were being detained and would be sent Tuesday to the
service's facility in Denver. He said that eventually the 13 would be returned
to Mexico.

Moyer said the van included a driver and a recruiter for illegal aliens.  He
said the case had been presented for prosecution but declined because the case
was hard to make when the initial activity took place so far away.

He said the men were being smuggled from southern California north of Tijuana
and that they had paid $ 100 to $ 150 each for the trip. They met in Los
Angeles, were gathered up and headed for St. Louis.

Moyer said two of the men were headed for Carbondale, Ill., a couple were headed
for Chicago, a couple headed farther east, one was aimed for Arkansas where he
had a job lined up planting evergreens, and a few were coming to St.  Louis.

Moyer said that St. Louis is a connection point for illegal aliens and that such
catches were made several times each week.

LOAD-DATE: September 29, 1993

LANGUAGE: English

                  Copyright 1993 St. Louis Post-Dispatch, Inc.


                              111 of 308 DOCUMENTS

                       St. Louis Post-Dispatch (Missouri)

                    May 6, 1994, FRIDAY, THREE STAR Edition

STATE DEPT. STANDS FIRM ON HAITIAN REPATRIATION

SECTION: WAR PAGE; Pg. 5C

LENGTH: 480 words

DATELINE: WASHINGTON


REJECTING CLAIMS by its critics, the State Department says relatively few
Haitian boat people suffer political persecution after they are returned to
Haiti under the U.S. policy of forced repatriation.

Critics are demanding a change in the policy because of the repressive tactics
of Haiti's military government. President Bill Clinton said this week that
Haiti's leaders were "killing and mutilating . . . innocent civilians."

But Christine Shelly, a State Department spokeswoman, said Wednesday that there
had been relatively few instances of retribution against repatriated Haitians.

Deposed Haitian President Jean-Bertrand Aristide has called the repatriation
policy racist.

And the executive director of the TransAfrica lobbying group, Randall Robinson,
has been on a hunger strike since April 12 to protest the policy.

Robinson was admitted to a hospital Wednesday, the 23rd day of his hunger
strike, with dehydration. Aides said he was expected to be released before the
end of the week.

Anthony J. Lake, Clinton's national security adviser, briefed Robinson on Sunday
about the administration policy and called him Wednesday, the White House said
Thursday.

"It was a personal call. They didn't discuss policy," said Dee Dee Myers,
Clinton's press secretary. Myers said Lake did not ask Robinson to abandon the
fast.

She said Clinton's repatriation policy had not changed. "I think the policy
continues to be under review - as circumstances on the ground change," she said.

The repatriation policy was the target of a protest Thursday outside the White
House. Three members of Congress provoked arrest by violating their permit for a
moving demonstration by stopping and standing in front of the White House.

Those arrested were Democratic Reps. Maxine Waters of California, Alcee Hastings
of Florida and Nydia Velazquez of New York, said Amelia Parker, executive
director of the Congressional Black Caucus.

Led by the caucus chairman, Rep. Kweisi Mfume, D-Md., the protesters also are
demanding a complete trade and commercial embargo against Haiti. Six Democratic
House members, including Mfume, were arrested at a protest two weeks ago.

The administration maintains that liberalizing the repatriation policy would
lead to a mass exodus from Haiti, with substantial loss of life on the high
seas. It has been encouraging Haitians who fear political persecution to apply
for refugee status at processing centers that the State Department has
established in Haiti.

Also on Thursday, immigration officials said most of the 409 Haitian boat people
who arrived in the United States on a freighter two weeks ago would be released
gradually to relatives or other sponsors. About four dozen children and pregnant
women have already been released for humanitarian reasons; the rest have been
held at an immigration detention center near Miami.

LOAD-DATE: May 7, 1994

LANGUAGE: English

                  Copyright 1994 St. Louis Post-Dispatch, Inc.


                              112 of 308 DOCUMENTS

                       St. Louis Post-Dispatch (Missouri)

                 October 19, 1994, WEDNESDAY, FIVE STAR Edition

CALIFORNIA BALLOT ISSUE TAPS ANTI-ALIEN FERVOR; MEASURE WOULD BAR BENEFITS TO
ILLEGALS

BYLINE: Bill Lambrecht Post-Dispatch Washington Bureau

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 1A

LENGTH: 1051 words

DATELINE: LOS ANGELES


Since crossing the border from Mexico 30 years ago, Frank "Pancho" Hernandez has
built a happy and rewarding life.

His restaurant in a trendy mall sends patrons home with fat tortillas, and next
door, his son's bar packs in 200 people at a time.        But like many
Californians, Hernandez feels threatened by the influx of illegal aliens - over
10,000 a month by state estimates.

The growing costs of these aliens and a fear of being "overrun" is behind
California's hard-fisted ballot initiative that would end schooling and most
social services for undocumented immigrants.

"One of these days," says Hernandez, "we're going to look up and there will be
more of them than us."

From the nation's incubator of ballot propositions comes Proposition 187, a call
to Californians to start looking out for themselves. Police and teachers oppose
it. Critics call it a mean-spirited plan that could tear apart the fabric of
California.

Yet in this year of the angry voter, it leads 2-1 in polls.

Proposition 187 will send a powerful message across the country. It also may
determine California's next governor, an election with national implications.

Gov. Pete Wilson, a Republican and the only major candidate in California to
endorse Proposition 187, has surged ahead of challenger Kathleen Brown partly on
the force of anti-immigration sentiment.

In a debate last Friday night, Wilson stressed the hundreds of millions of
dollars Californians spend to support about 1.6 million illegal immigrants. He
was asked by a panelist how he would feel if he were the school principal
required to expel a second-grader who had no proof of citizenship.,

"I make no apology for putting California children first," Wilson replied. "Yes,
those children who are in the country illegally deserve an education. The
government that owes it to them is not in Sacramento nor even in Washington. It
is in the country from which they have come."

For Brown, who is the daughter and brother of past governors, opposing
Proposition 187 is risky given its popularity and the emphasis this election on
crime. During the debate, she reminded Wilson that as a senator, he supported a
bill to allow hundreds of thousands of temporary farm workers into the country.

"It's going to make a bad situation worse," she said of Proposition 187, noting
that it contains no provisions for new border guards or penalties for employers
that employ illegals.

If Wilson wins, he could be a prime candidate for the Republicans' 1996
presidential ticket, which could be set earlier than usual now that California
has moved up its primary to March from June. Wilson spent his early years in St.
Louis and went to Country Day School.

Wilson accused President Bill Clinton during the debate of ignoring immigration
problems, previewing what could be a key issue in the next round of presidential
politics.

In California, Texas and Florida, illegal immigration has surged to near the top
of voters' concerns. Without capturing two of those states, Clinton will find it
hard to hold his job, analysts say.

Deportation The Goal

Proposition 187 begins with a lament: Californians have suffered and are
suffering economic hardship caused by the presence of illegal aliens. . . . They
have suffered and and are suffering personal injury and damage caused by the
criminal conduct of illegal aliens."

The remedies it prescribes would trigger deportation of illegal immigrants after
denying them schooling, welfare payments and all state and local services except
emergency medical care.        Starting in January, school officials would be
required to establish the citizenship of every student. Those who had no proof
would have 90 days before being denied admission to school.

With a vote on the proposal just three weeks away, emotions are running high. On
Sunday, 70,000 people marched in Los Angeles in a protest against the proposal.
On Friday, students in several Los Angeles County high schools walked out of
classes and disrupted traffic to protest it.

A group of ministers disrupted a meeting on Wednesday in the San Fernando Valley
where Proposition 187 author Harold Ezell, a former Immigration and
Naturalization Service official, was speaking.

Ezell is often likened to Howard Jarvis, who started a nationwide property tax
revolt in the 1980s with his landmark Proposition 13 in California. After last
week's confrontations, a shaken Ezell said he would not speak publicly again
until Election Day passes.

Organizers operate at an undisclosed location in Orange County, a bastion of
conservative politics south of Los Angeles. Ron Prince, chairman of the
Proposition 187 group, argued in an interview that he and his colleagues are
accused unfairly of harboring racist motives.

"We are not against immigration," Prince said. "What we're talking about is a
denigration of our public services. There is simply not enough to go around."

Dissenting Voices

Despite Proposition 187's comfortable lead in polls, its passage is not assured.
Ballot initiatives in California often fizzle after voters learn more about
them.

If it does pass, court tests are certain. Illegal immigrants are now guaranteed
the right to an education under a U.S. Supreme Court ruling.

Opponents - among them business, labor and police groups and public health
advocates - were slow to organize. But they blanketed California last week with
a radio ad that accuses Proposition 187 forces of having ties to a white
supremacist organization. Prince denied any connections.

Los Angeles County Sheriff Sherman Block is among the police who contend the
400,000 students who would be banned from schools would cause law enforcement
problems. health officials argue that a ban on treating people could spread
disease.

The critics of Proposition 187 say it would culturally divide California, a
mecca for settlers and entry point for immigrants who have combined to build a
powerful Pacific Rim nation-like state.

The Rev. Ralph Midtlyng, pastor of the All Saints Evangelical Lutheran Church in
Sun Valley near Los Angeles, argued that children would suffer the most in what
he called a search for scapegoats.

"If you don't educate and you don't give medical care, you will have to pay for
it later," he said.

LOAD-DATE: October 20, 1994

LANGUAGE: English

GRAPHIC: PHOTO; (1) Photo Headshot of (Pete) Wilson (2) Photo Headshot of
(Kathleen) Brown

                  Copyright 1994 St. Louis Post-Dispatch, Inc.


                              113 of 308 DOCUMENTS

                       St. Louis Post-Dispatch (Missouri)

                 November 10, 1994, THURSDAY, FIVE STAR Edition

TALLY ON PROPOSITIONS SHOWS FEAR AND REBELLION; VOTERS SHUT DOORS ON ALIENS, SET
TERM LIMITS

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 10B

LENGTH: 783 words

DATELINE: WASHINGTON


Americans were angry, and they were scared. They were defiant and suspicious and
frustrated, and they took it all into the voting booths.

In 37 states and the District of Columbia, as well as in scores of local
jurisdictions, they voiced their worries in a dizzying array of ballot measures
that made or staved off new laws.

Some results may bring enormous change.

Illegal immigrants felt doors slam shut all across California on Tuesday, with
passage of the sweeping Proposition 187. As law, it will deny illegal aliens
access to public schools and most public benefits and require teachers, doctors
and social workers to turn in even children suspected of being in California
illegally.

Proponents dubbed it "Save Our State." Opponents filed challenges as soon as the
courts opened Wednesday, and a judge immediately barred enforcement of the
provision that would expel illegal immigrants from public schools.

San Francisco Superior Court Judge Stuart Pollack noted that the proposition
conflicted with a 1982 U.S. Supreme Court ruling requiring states to provide a
public education to all residents.

Oregon may have to wait until Friday to learn if voters passed the "Death With
Dignity" proposal, which would allow doctors to prescribe lethal medicine to
dying patients.

The outcome hinges on 265,000 uncounted absentee ballots, 21 percent of the
vote. On Wednesday, only 39,000 votes separated the pros and cons, for a
tentative spread of 52 percent in favor and 48 percent opposed.

Elsewhere, voters rejected handgun bans, casino developers, campaign spending
caps, a state-run health care plan and opportunities to control their taxes
through the popular vote.

"The referendum process was part of the voter rebellion that we saw at the
polls," said Larry J. Sabato, a scholar of campaigns and elections and professor
of government at the University of Virginia.

"Term limits succeeding almost everywhere, criminal justice measures, the
immigration measure - there are many manifestations of voter anger in these
returns."

Sabato noted a libertarian streak too.

"The defeat of the two anti-gay initiatives (in Idaho and Oregon). That says to
me that the conservative wave now sweeping the country also has a libertarian
edge to it. 'Don't tread on me, anti-government, leave the individual alone, to
the extent possible,"' he said.

Sometimes it was enough to say no.

Colorado voters said no to campaign reform, rejecting limits on campaign
contributions. So did people in Massachusetts, rejecting a novel ban on
corporate contributions to public referendums.

Oklahoma voters said no to a penny entertainment tax that was to support breast
cancer research. In Colorado, they rejected a 50-cent hike in the cigarette tax
that would have helped pay for health care for the poor and anti-smoking
programs. Arizona barely passed a similar measure, which will add 40 cents to a
pack of cigarettes.

Given the chance to hold all new taxes up to voter approval, Oregon, Missouri
and Montana backed away. Voters in Massachusetts, with an opportunity to lower
taxes for most residents, rejected a graduated tax rate and held onto a flat
rate that's the same for everyone.

Not surprisingly, the country's grouchiness extended to crime measures. Georgia
enacted the nation's sternest sentencing law, a "two-strikes" measure promising
life without parole to anyone who commits a second violent felony.

California cemented its "three strikes, you're out" law, passed first by the
Legislature and now by voters. It requires prison terms of 25 years-to-life for
three-time offenders.

Oregon stiffened mandatory sentences for violent crimes, and Vermont made it
easier for judges to deny bail to people accused of violent crimes. Ohio, which
has 134 men on death row but has not executed anyone in 31 years, chose to speed
up the execution process by removing the appeals court phase. Appeals now will
go directly to the state Supreme Court.

The term-limits juggernaut rolled on.

Congressional and other term limits approved in Alaska, Idaho, Maine,
Massachusetts, Nebraska and Nevada brought to 21 the number of states that have
reined in their politicians. Colorado tightened existing term limits, but Utah
decided not to reduce its terms any further.

Floridians recoiled from the vision of 47 casinos around the state. Casino
measures also failed in Rhode Island, Massachusetts and Colorado.

Seat-belt laws withstood challenges in the Dakotas and Massachusetts. Wyoming
voters rejected a broad abortion ban. California will ban workplace smoking on
Jan. 1, as planned, after voters turned down a tobacco industry-backed proposal
to weaken that law.

LOAD-DATE: November 11, 1994

LANGUAGE: English

GRAPHIC: PHOTO; Photo by Reuters - Sen. Dianne Feinstein, D-Calif., holds a news
conference Wednesday in San Francisco. Although she is leading GOP challenger
Michael Huffington, absentee ballots have yet to be counted.

TYPE: ELECTION RESULT

                  Copyright 1994 St. Louis Post-Dispatch, Inc.


                              114 of 308 DOCUMENTS

                       St. Louis Post-Dispatch (Missouri)

                August 31, 1994, Wednesday, FIVE STAR   EDITION

DEATHS ELSEWHERE

SECTION: NEWS, Pg. 04D

LENGTH: 154 words


ARIEL DA SILVA, 36, the first person granted asylum by a U.S. immigration
officer because of sexual orientation, has died of AIDS in Los Angeles.

The case of Mr. Da Silva prompted Attorney General Janet Reno to declare that
persecution based on sexual orientation is grounds for political asylum, a
principle now binding in all immigration cases. Mr. Da Silva said he was afraid
he would be persecuted in his native Mexico because he was a homosexual.

He died last week in a Los Angeles hospital, five months after the favorable
ruling by an immigration hearing officer, attorney Marc Van Der Hout said
Monday.

Mr. Da Silva, who entered the United States in the 1980s, was diagnosed with the
AIDS virus in November 1991, Van Der Hout said. He had been working in health
education and AIDS prevention in San Francisco since 1987. Mr. Da Silva had
spoken publicly about his case under a pseudonym, Jose Garcia.

LOAD-DATE: June 16, 1999

LANGUAGE: English

                  Copyright 1994 St. Louis Post-Dispatch, Inc.


                              115 of 308 DOCUMENTS

                       St. Louis Post-Dispatch (Missouri)

                  May 7, 1995, Sunday, FIVE STAR LIFT Edition

A NATION NO LONGER QUITE SO INDIVISIBLE

BYLINE: William F. Woo

SECTION: WAR PAGE; Pg. 1B

LENGTH: 975 words

WILLIAM F. WOO A REFLECTION COLUMN


ON THE DAY AFTER the bombing in Oklahoma City, CNN showed an interview with one
of the survivors. When the reporter asked what should be done to prevent such
crimes, the man immediately replied that America needs to be more careful about
whom it lets into the country.

That was the widespread supposition right after the bombing - that it had been
committed by foreigners. All over the country, people of Middle Eastern ancestry
reported being the objects of hostility from strangers and neighbors alike.

Instantly, there was talk of tightening immigration laws and making it easier to
deport suspicious aliens. Chairman Henry Hyde of the House Judiciary Committee
called for more restrictions on immigration, declaring that "Our country is like
a hotel lobby. You can walk in, walk out."

Among such voices was that of Senate Majority Leader Robert Dole. Within days,
however, it developed that his own state of Kansas was identified by
investigators as a base of operations for the disaffected, home-grown Americans
who are believed to have carried out the bombing.

Although the foreign connection quickly fizzled out, the immediate suspicion
that Middle Easterners were the culprits was not wholly irrational. In New York,
radical Islamic defendants were on trial for blowing up the World Trade Center,
where, as in Oklahoma City, a car or truck bomb was employed. Furthermore, such
bombings have become the familiar trademark of Middle Eastern terrorists, who
twice used them against Americans in Beirut.

The shock of Oklahoma City and the instant assumption that outsiders were to
blame had the effect of throwing gasoline on a fire already burning - the
growing sentiment that something needs to be done to make it more difficult for
foreigners to get into America and easier to throw them out and to make life
more unpleasant for them while they are here. A Time/CNN poll last fall showed
nearly three-quarters of the people as favoring strict limits on immigration.

The roots of such sentiments go deeper than the fear of terrorism. They involved
many factors, among them the feeling - in a time of general unease about the
future - that noncitizens are worsening the country's problems.

Hence, part of the Republican Contract with America goes well beyond
California's recent Proposition 187, which denies public benefits to illegal
aliens. The GOP measure, already passed by the House, would bar even legal
immigrants from some 60 social programs, including school lunches, foster care
and Medicaid.

Another factor involves the belief that today's immigrants are somehow different
from those of the last century who contributed to the melting pot image of
America. In one way that is true. Yesterday's immigrants came largely from
Europe and they were white. Today, European immigrants are in the minority.

But that belief also encompasses the rosy but false perception of yesterday's
immigrants as self-sufficient newcomers and today's as dependent on the dole,
and thus undesirable. "My ancestors, and most of our ancestors, came to this
country not with their hands out for welfare checks," said Rep. Bill Archer,
chairman of the Ways and Means Committee."

The Wall Street Journal, where this quote appeared, went on to show, however,
that "more than half of public welfare recipients nationwide in 1909 were
immigrant families, making new arrivals three times more likely than natives to
be on the public dole." Today, less than 10 percent of welfare recipients come
from immigrant families.

Moreover, the presence of foreigners or immigrants is a reminder, unsettling to
many people, of the inescapable reality that America is changing. Today
non-Hispanic whites make up 76 percent of the population, but census projections
show that within about 50 years, America will be evenly divided between whites
and minorities and non-white Hispanics.

Already, six cities of more than 1 million - among them New York, Los Angeles
and Houston - contain more minorities than whites. Because the Hispanic and
Asian populations are younger than that of whites, their birthrates are higher.
In some parts of the Western United States, where many Hispanics live, the
birthrate already is reaching numbers usually associated with the Third World.

The effect of these changes upon America will be profound. As minorities grow in
number, their political power, both locally and nationally, will increase
dramatically.

Whether that power flows in the direction of Republicans or Democrats will
matter less than the fact that the motivating assumptions of the newly powerful
are likely to be quite different from those that prevail in America today. For
example, the Protestant Ethic is unlikely to mean as much in a population where
half the people have not descended from Europeans.

In the past, it was expected that newcomers to America would assimilate into the
larger society, which by and large was made up of people with roots not unlike
their own. In recent decades, the image of the melting pot, where everything
becomes indistinguishable, has been yielding to that of the salad bowl, where
the ingredients contribute to the whole but remain identifiably separate.

The salad bowl model has been reinforced by the desire of many minorities or
newcomers to retain much of what makes them distinct, whether in language,
culture or customs. When we talk today of multiculturalism, we are referring to
more than merely acknowledging or respecting what makes us different from each
other.

We are talking, at bottom, about a demographic phenomenon that is working
powerfully against the assimilative assumptions and impulses of the past -
things that contributed toward the collective ideal of "one nation,
indivisible." We are talking about forces that will change the face, and
probably the nature, of America.

LOAD-DATE: May 8, 1995

LANGUAGE: English

                  Copyright 1995 St. Louis Post-Dispatch, Inc.


                              116 of 308 DOCUMENTS

                       St. Louis Post-Dispatch (Missouri)

                  June 4, 1995, Sunday, FIVE STAR LIFT Edition

IMMIGRATION PANEL SET TO URGE; CLOSING THE DOOR ON RELATIVES

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 11A

LENGTH: 168 words

DATELINE: WASHINGTON


The Commission on Immigration Reform is expected to recommend to Congress within
the next few weeks that it significantly reduce the number of legal immigrants
allowed to enter the United States.

Sources say the commission is planning to recommend the elimination of
immigration categories that allow newly naturalized U.S. citizens to bring in
their married adult children as well as brothers and sisters.

That would reduce the number of legal immigrants by about 100,000 each year.

In addition, the commission, headed by former Rep. Barbara Jordan, D-Texas, is
considering trying to reduce by as much as half the approximately 135, 000
political refugees and their relatives who are admitted each year.

Each year, about 800,000 legal immigrants are admitted to the United States in a
variety of categories, including political refugees.

Close to 70 percent are granted residence on the basis of a family relationship,
and the remainder get in based on employment and other special skills.

LOAD-DATE: June 5, 1995

LANGUAGE: English

                  Copyright 1995 St. Louis Post-Dispatch, Inc.


                              117 of 308 DOCUMENTS

                       St. Louis Post-Dispatch (Missouri)

                    June 4, 1995, Sunday, FIVE STAR Edition

IMMIGRATION PANEL SET TO URGE CLOSING THE DOOR ON RELATIVES

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 11A

LENGTH: 531 words

DATELINE: WASHINGTON


The Commission on Immigration Reform is expected to recommend to Congress within
the next few weeks that it significantly reduce the number of legal immigrants
allowed to enter the United States.

Sources say the commission is planning to recommend the elimination of
immigration categories that allow newly naturalized U.S. citizens to bring in
their married adult children as well as brothers and sisters.

That would reduce the number of legal immigrants by about 100,000 each year.

In addition, the commission, headed by former Rep. Barbara Jordan, D-Texas, is
considering trying to reduce by as much as half the approximately 135, 000
political refugees and their relatives who are admitted each year.

Jordan, a longtime civil rights leader, was appointed to her post by President
Bill Clinton.

Each year, about 800,000 legal immigrants are admitted to the United States in a
variety of categories, including political refugees.

That is the equivalent of adding a city the size of San Francisco to the U.S.
population each year.

Close to 70 percent are granted residence on the basis of a family relationship,
and the remainder get in based on employment and other special skills.

Last fall, the commission issued a report on illegal immigration that provoked a
chorus of protest from advocacy groups.

Critics said its proposal for a national computerized employment registry ran
the risk of violating the civil rights of minority workers.

The commission's latest work is expected to draw similar fire and underscores
the extent to which the new Republican majority is driving the immigration
agenda.

Appointed jointly by Congress and Clinton, the commission was supposed to come
up with a report on legal immigration in September 1997.

But at the nudging of Sen. Alan Simpson, R-Wyo., and Rep. Lamar Smith, R-Texas,
who head immigration subcommittees, the commission has moved up its timetable.

Republicans on the nine-member commission include Harold Ezell, a Ronald
Reagan-era Immigration and Naturalization Service regional commissioner and a
leader in the campaign to pass Proposition 187 in California.

Ezell reportedly played a key role in persuading other commission members to go
along with the proposal to limit legal migration.

Jordan was determined to forge a consensus, even if that meant coming up with
proposals that at first seem at odds with her previous unqualified support for
legal immigration.

The commission met behind closed doors for three days recently and approved a
series of near-unanimous recommendations that would limit the number of
relatives of both U.S. citizens and permanent residents who could be admitted to
the United States.

At the same time, the commission is expected to declare that the main focus of
"family reunification" in immigration policy should be on reunifying the nuclear
family, as opposed to extended family networks.

To that end, sources indicate that the commission may propose that minor
children and spouses of permanent residents who are not yet American citizens be
admitted at an accelerated pace to deal with the backlog of nearly 1.2 million
applications in that category.

LOAD-DATE: June 5, 1995

LANGUAGE: English

                  Copyright 1995 St. Louis Post-Dispatch, Inc.


                              118 of 308 DOCUMENTS

                       St. Louis Post-Dispatch (Missouri)

                 June 12, 1995, Monday, FIVE STAR LIFT Edition

IMMIGRANTS AND STRANGE BEDFELLOWS

SECTION: EDITORIAL; Pg. 6B

LENGTH: 493 words


If politics makes for strange bedfellows, the politics of immigration makes for
the strangest of alliances. After a congressional commission on immigration
released its report last week, battle lines formed quickly. President Bill
Clinton embraced the report, which called for the kind of limits on legal
immigration generally favored by Republicans. But vocal opponents ranged from
Sen. Ted Kennedy to House Republican Leader Dick Armey, not to mention an array
of immigrant-advocate groups. All of them make valid points; the diversity of
opinion shows how difficult immigration reform will be.

The nine-member bipartisan U.S. Commission on Immigration Reform, headed by
former Texas Rep. Barbara Jordan, recommended both numerical and philosophical
changes in determining who is allowed to enter the United States. Current
immigration levels of about 830,000 a year would be cut first to 700,000 and
eventually to 550,000. Spouses and young children of aliens already living here
would see approval of their applications to immigrate speeded up; at the same
time, current preferences for siblings and adult children of immigrants who have
become U.S. citizens would be eliminated.

Employment-related immigration would drop to 100,000 a year from 140,000, with
no unskilled workers allowed. Companies that bring skilled foreign workers over
would be required to pay a fee; the money would be used to help fund training
and education for American workers.

Mr. Clinton hailed the plan as "pro-family, pro-work, pro-naturalization," but
not everyone was so generous. Mr. Armey called the efforts to reduce the number
of immigrants "a misguided attempt to make legal immigrants the scapegoats for
America's problems." Mr. Kennedy echoed that sentiment, saying that "if we solve
the illegal immigration problem, I am confident that the calls for deep
reductions in legal immigration will end."

Business groups complained about the tax on firms trying to take advantage of
the global market for employees. Frank Sharry, executive director of the
National Immigration Forum, said the plan hurts families, businesses and the
commitment to human rights, adding ominously that Mr. Clinton's approval "risks
alienating some of his key constituencies."

Certainly, frustration over the seemingly intractable problem of illegal
immigration has fueled the drive to curb legal immigration. Cultural differences
over who is included in an immediate family also account for unhappiness by
immigration advocates. The best solution would encourage compliance by making
immigration laws equitable, phasing in any reductions in numbers, while also
increasing efforts to curb the flow of illegal aliens.

Doing so won't be easy. But until those twin goals are accomplished, no one is
likely to be satisfied with the latest in a long series of attempts to reconcile
the American legacy of a nation of immigrants with the ill will that immigration
can cause.

LOAD-DATE: June 13, 1995

LANGUAGE: English

TYPE: EDITORIAL

                  Copyright 1995 St. Louis Post-Dispatch, Inc.


                              119 of 308 DOCUMENTS

                       St. Louis Post-Dispatch (Missouri)

                 June 13, 1995, Tuesday, FIVE STAR LIFT Edition

AMERICAN IDEAL OF HARD WORK, SELF-RELIANCE ELUDES MANY IMMIGRANTS

BYLINE: Mona Charen Copyright Creators Syndicate Inc.

SECTION: EDITORIAL; Pg. 13B

LENGTH: 703 words

MONA CHAREN COLUMN

DATELINE: WASHINGTON


President Bill Clinton, who can be relied upon to be all over the map, has
endorsed changes in immigration law in response to recommendations from the
Commission on Immigration Reform. It's difficult to guess why the president
endorsed the minor adjustments in numbers and eligibility that the commission
proposed - but c the debate over immigration will not end here.

Like all of the important intellectual debates currently engaging serious
people, the debate over immigration is being waged not by conservatives against
liberals but by conservatives against other conservatives.

That is not to say that there isn't a liberal position on immigration. There is.
It amounts to this: If people do not have a constitutional right to move to
America, they are entitled to all of the benefits of our welfare state the
minute they arrive. Further, immigration is good for America because it promotes
diversity.

Among conservatives, the debate looks a little different. Most conservatives,
like House Majority Leader Dick Armey, are energetically pro-immigration,
believing that immigration adds a constant fuel of economic vitality, patriotism
and energy to the American mix. Immigration enthusiasts point out that
immigration is self-selecting - that is, the indolent and stupid don't have what
it takes to get here. And they cite the brilliant heritage of this country as a
haven for the oppressed.

Carrying the anti-immigration standard is National Review, the conservative
flagship magazine, and Forbes editor Peter Brimelow, author of "Alien Nation:
Common Sense About America's Immigration Disaster." Both Brimelow and John
O'Sullivan, National Review's editor, are British-born, and though it may seem
cheeky for immigrants to criticize immigration policy, Brimelow's response is
that immigrants always do the dirty work in America, and today, the dirty work
amounts to challenging ill-founded assumptions about immigration.

Few Americans recognize that, even leaving illegal immigration aside, we are now
in the midst of the greatest wave of immigration in our history. The last great
peak, 1,285,349, came in 1907. In 1991, we accepted 1,827,167. Yes, our
population is larger today, but as Brimelow notes (and as any resident of Miami
or San Diego can attest), immigrants do not spread themselves evenly around the
country but rather cluster in certain cities. Moreover, nearly all immigrants
who come to America these days are staying here. That wasn't true of the great
wave of 1880-1925. As many as one-third of the immigrants who came during that
period eventually went back home.

Indeed, throughout American history (the decades of the late 19th and early 20th
century being the exception), immigration has ebbed and flowed depending upon
many factors, including economic conditions in the United States. But since
1965, immigration, legal and illegal, has gone steadily up.

Why? Well, the welfare state, explains Brimelow. The image we have of
hard-working immigrants making a go of it in the New Land with long hours and
steady toil is no longer accurate, he claims. Immigrants have become heavy users
of welfare. According to Brimelow, immigrants consumed 6.7 percent of all
welfare cash benefits in 1970 but 13.1 percent in 1990. And word has spread
about what is obtainable here. Two-thirds of the births in Los Angeles County
are to illegal-immigrant mothers.

One needn't endorse Brimelow's conclusion (he wants a complete moratorium on
immigration for a few years and then a reappraisal of immigration policy) to
agree that the questions he raises are worthy of debate.

I believe that the traditional image of the hard-working immigrant is still true
for most, but if even a significant minority are departing from that model, it
means trouble.

Unless we become again a nation that insists upon hard work and self-reliance, a
nation that proudly asks immigrants to "Americanize" rather than hang on to
their native languages and customs - the New York school system now offers
instruction in 100 different languages - we cannot hope to assimilate the
numbers of immigrants we are now accepting. And unassimilated minorities can be
a very serious matter. Just look at Bosnia.

LOAD-DATE: August 22, 1995

LANGUAGE: English

                  Copyright 1995 St. Louis Post-Dispatch, Inc.


                              120 of 308 DOCUMENTS

                       St. Louis Post-Dispatch (Missouri)

              September 26, 1995, Tuesday, FIVE STAR LIFT Edition

IMMIGRATION REFORMERS FOLLOW RISKY PATH

BYLINE: Frank del Olmo

SECTION: EDITORIAL; Pg. 15B

LENGTH: 798 words

COMMENTARY COLUMN


It's hard to come indoors from a blizzard without some snowflakes blowing in
before you shut the door. So any assessment of the work of the congressional
Commission on Immigration Reform should begin with admiration for the job that
chairwoman Barbara Jordan did in keeping out most of the "flakes" swirling about
in the stormy debate over immigration.

The nine-member commission, the latest bipartisan panel to study this hellishly
complex and emotional topic, issued its final set of policy recommendations
recently. The report is 245 pages long, reflecting the detail in which
commission members studied immigration. To their credit, they came up with
generally reasonable and balanced proposals.

Still, even Jordan - a former member of Congress from Texas largely remembered
and justly admired for her measured approach in the Watergate hearings - was
affected by the nativist political pressures that have set the negative tone of
the immigration debate, especially since last year's vote on Proposition 187 in
California.

Jordan and her fellow commissioners did not buy into the doomsday scenario of
extreme restrictionists - that immigration must come to a halt because this
country has reached its "carrying capacity."

The commission instead concluded that a properly regulated flow of immigrants is
in the national interest, bringing in newcomers who help create economic
opportunity and enhance American culture, among other benefits. The commission
also agreed that the United States should continue its honorable tradition of
accepting political refugees.

The commission's recommendations for reordering the priorities under which
immigrants are admitted are also level-headed. Priority would go to children and
spouses of U.S. citizens and legal residents. Parents would get the next
priority. Admission categories for siblings would be eliminated, a practical way
to prevent a crush of applications by members of large, extended families. So
far, so good.

But the commission stumbled when it decided to recommend lowering the number of
legal immigrants admitted each year by about 24 percent, to 550, 000 from the
present 725,000, without bothering to explain why in its many pages of
documentation.

Neither number is magic, of course. After all, the reason immigration is hard to
control is that it responds not to legislated limits but to demographics and
economics, the two sciences hardest to predict because they deal with the
vagaries of human behavior.

That's why the commission should simply have urged Congress to make the number
of immigrant visas flexible, to be reviewed and revised annually by the
Immigration and Naturalization Service.

Why did Jordan opt to play the numbers game? Because the politics of
immigrant-bashing is again rearing its ugly head.   Prodded by a handful of
ardent restrictionists in Congress, the House is rushing headlong to approve a
tough anti-immigration bill, HR 2202, that not only aims to control illegal
immigration - by hiring more border agents and building new fences - but also
starts to close the door to legal immigration by slashing admissions by 30
percent.

Under the Jordan commission's original charter from Congress, its report was not
due until 1997. So Jordan and her colleagues are clearly hurrying along in order
to have some impact on Capitol Hill's immigration debate before muddled bills
like HR 2202 are enacted - as some surely will be in the current political
climate.

Jordan probably hopes to have more influence on the Senate, when it takes up a
similar immigration bill. And no doubt the recommendation to lower the number of
legal immigrants was included to help make the commission's other
recommendations politically palatable. That may be sound politics, but it is
risky, for it could undermine the work done by the commission overall.

The risk lies in the commission's acceptance, without explanation or
documentation, of the idea that all immigration - legal and illegal - needs to
be curbed. This just gives legitimacy to the single-issue extremists who see
immigration as the chief problem facing our country-more critical than AIDS,
Medicare funding, global warming, nuclear proliferation or anything else.

If that sounds exaggerated, consider that some of the most vociferous
anti-immigration groups active in Washington trace their roots back to the
eugenics movement of the 1930s and other now-discredited racialist ideologies.
These snake-oil salesmen are just using the immigration issue as a new bottle to
sell their sleazy views.

By opening the door to these anti-immigrant flakes and their obnoxious theories,
the Commission on Immigration Reform lessens its chances of having its many
sound recommendations taken seriously by reasonable people.

LOAD-DATE: September 26, 1995

LANGUAGE: English

                  Copyright 1995 St. Louis Post-Dispatch, Inc.


                              121 of 308 DOCUMENTS

                       St. Louis Post-Dispatch (Missouri)

                October 15, 1995, Sunday, FIVE STAR LIFT Edition

LESS-THAN-CLEAR ASYLUM LAWS LEAVE MAN WITHOUT A COUNTRY

BYLINE: Philip Dine Of the Post-Dispatch Staff

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 5B

LENGTH: 640 words


EARLY LAST YEAR, Gezim Mehmeti helped ignite a protest of 20,000 Albanians
demanding the return of property the Communists had confiscated decades earlier.

The rally in the Albanian capital of Tirana ended with 28 people beaten by
police and 50 arrested. A man who had been standing next to Mehmeti lay shot to
death.

Tipped to his imminent arrest, Mehmeti walked 10 days through the mountains to
Greece. That kicked off a string of adventures, from a liaison with a young
American in Costa Rica to a risky trip as a stowaway on a jet bound for Miami,
that brought him - illegally - to St. Louis.

Arguing that his life would be jeopardized back in Albania, Mehmeti, 32, is
seeking political asylum here. The U.S. government wants to deport him.

The case raises a larger issue, one increasingly posed with the end of the Cold
War: What happens when someone flees a country, contending that though it has
renounced communism, little has really changed?

For decades, tiny Albania was Europe's most repressive nation. The secret police
were everywhere, private cars were banned, virtually no one was allowed in or
out, people could spend a decade in a labor camp for lamenting the wait at a
bakery. Only in the early 1990s did Albania haltingly move toward a multiparty
system.

Those involved in Mehmeti's case assembled in March at the Immigration and
Naturalization Service downtown to decide his fate in an exclusionary hearing,
normally closed.

Mehmeti admitted that he flew to Miami on June 22 of last year, entered with no
documents and turned himself in. He had no choice, he said.

In 1946, the Communists seized his family's 28 acres and farm equipment. In
1956, they jailed his father for 20 years because he had been a "kulak," or rich
farmer.

An older brother, involved in underground opposition politics, escaped two years
ago after being tortured with electric shocks - and ended up in St. Louis as a
refugee, sponsored by the International Institute. Another brother came here on
a tourist visa and is seeking asylum.

Denied the chance for asylum in Greece because too many Albanians had fled
there, Mehmeti said, he went to Panama. Twenty-four hours later, he left for
Costa Rica, where thieves stole his passport, making it risky to stay and
impossible to leave. He met a young American woman, later corresponded with her
and said he plans to marry her.

Also in Costa Rica, a mysterious Egyptian connection introduced him to a man
who, for $ 1,500, helped hide him in the baggage section of a plane bound for
Miami.

His attorney, Tong Gao, argued that the political parties have changed names in
Albania but the forces in charge remain the same.

"My client has a reasonable fear that if he goes back, he will receive the same
treatment as before," said Gao, an immigrant from China trying his first asylum
case.

INS attorney Joe Dierkes suggested Albania that has moved toward democracy, if
an imperfect brand. Mehmeti took the easy way out, Dierkes added, by fleeing
Albania and being smuggled into the United States, rather than going through
proper channels to seek refugee status.

As the 3 1/2-hour hearing ended, Judge Clarease Mitchell Rankin of Texas said
she had intended to make a decision that day, but she needed a month to review
the labyrinthine conditions in Albania. Seven months later, her ruling is
pending.

The collapse of communism has, many feel, made things tougher in two ways for
people who once would have been welcomed as refugees:

A belief that countries that renounce communism quickly become freer and people
are in less danger.

A lessening of the competitive pressure on the United States to show how open
its borders are.

With such issues growing more complex, roughly 100 asylum cases are pending in
St. Louis, which has an influx of Eastern Europeans.

LOAD-DATE: October 15, 1995

LANGUAGE: English

TYPE: PROFILE ILLEGAL IMMIGRANTS IN THE ST. LOUIS AREA

                  Copyright 1995 St. Louis Post-Dispatch, Inc.


                              122 of 308 DOCUMENTS

                       St. Louis Post-Dispatch (Missouri)

               November 14, 1995, Tuesday, FIVE STAR LIFT Edition

THE CONSTITUTION ALSO PROTECTS IMMIGRANTS

SECTION: EDITORIAL; Pg. 12B

LENGTH: 359 words


In a time where anti-immigrant sentiments are achieving a patina of
respectability, a ringing decision from a federal appeals court in California is
a welcome reaffirmation of immigrants' rights. Ruling in the case of seven
Palestinians and a Kenyan arrested at gunpoint in 1987 and scheduled for
deportation, the court said immigrants are entitled to the same First Amendment
rights of free speech and free association as American citizens.

The three-judge panel of the 9th U.S. Circuit Court of Appeals ruled unanimously
in the case of eight men charged under the McCarran-Walter Immigration Act. That
law, enacted during the height of McCarthyism, bars from the country foreigners
who promote communism. The eight defendants, all long-time residents of Los
Angeles, were arrested and charged with supporting the Popular Front for the
Liberation of Palestine.

They have denied the charges and said they were the victims of selective
prosecution. With the support of civil liberties groups and others including the
American Jewish Committee, they sought to overturn the charges and won in the
U.S. District Court. The appellate panel upheld that ruling Wednesday in strong,
sweeping terms.

Pointing out that the United States is a "nation of immigrants," the judges said
the free speech guarantee of the First Amendment is particularly relevant to
today's attitudes toward foreigners. "Aliens who often have different cultures
and languages have been subjected to intolerant and harassing conduct in our
past," the ruling said, "particularly in times of crisis. It is thus especially
appropriate that the First Amendment principle of tolerance for different voices
restrain our decisions to expel a participant in that community from our midst."

The decision is likely to be appealed, given its breadth and the Clinton
administration's current push for anti-terrorism legislation that seeks to
short-circuit legal safeguards. In such an atmosphere, the court's ruling is a
welcome reminder that punishing people for their views, not their deeds, runs
counter to the spirit that forged the Constitution and deserves to be honored
today.

LOAD-DATE: November 14, 1995

LANGUAGE: English

TYPE: EDITORIAL

                  Copyright 1995 St. Louis Post-Dispatch, Inc.


                              123 of 308 DOCUMENTS

                       St. Louis Post-Dispatch (Missouri)

                  December 3, 1995, Sunday, THREE STAR Edition

KENNEDY FIGHTS BILLS THAT WOULD RESTRICT IMMIGRATION

BYLINE: Carol Rosenberg 1995, Knight-Ridder Newspapers

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 6B

LENGTH: 384 words

DATELINE: WASHINGTON


BILLS ADVANCING through the Senate would make it much more difficult for
immigrants to bring families to the United States - and would put a heavier
financial burden on Americans who want aging foreign parents to join them.

The Senate Judiciary subcommittee on immigration voted 5-2 Wednesday to send its
version of immigration legislation to the full committee, where Sen. Edward
Kennedy, D-Mass., the ranking minority party member, is expected to put up a
fierce fight against several provisions.

Kennedy hinted at the coming battle - likely sometime next year - by saying,
"Many of the reforms in the bill before us are urgently needed."

"But I am concerned that other proposals will hurt American families by limiting
the ability of U.S. citizens to bring their parents and other close family
members here as lawful immigrants," he said.

The Senate subcommittee's legislation, offered by Sen. Alan Simpson, R-Wyo.,
seeks to reduce the total number of immigrants who can legally come to this
country, besides refugees, from the current 675,000 a year to about 525,000.

That would break down to 75,000 immigrants coming to fill jobs and 450, 000
relatives of U.S. citizens.

The proposed law would exclude the adult married children and adult brothers and
sisters of American citizens from the category of relatives' sponsorship.

Also, the bill would require prior proof as a form of enforcement of a clause
that says sponsors must be responsible for the health care and other associated
welfare-related costs for their elderly parents.

"It's unclear whether anyone can even buy that kind of coverage," said Jeanne
Butterfield, a lawyer with the American Immigration Lawyers Association, which
opposes the measure.

But, she said, it would mean that an American seeking to bring an elderly parent
to this country would have to prove that he or she could pay between $ 7,000 and
$ 13,000 a year for health insurance for each parent for the rest of his or her
life.

Lobbyist Rosemary Jenks of the pro-reform Center for Immigration Studies said,
however, that the clause covers only about a five-year period. Then immigrants
75 or older would be eligible for many social services.

Still, she argued, the bill would force children to be responsible for their
parents' support.

LOAD-DATE: December 3, 1995

LANGUAGE: English

GRAPHIC: PHOTO; Photo Headshot- (Edward) Kennedy

                  Copyright 1995 St. Louis Post-Dispatch, Inc.


                              124 of 308 DOCUMENTS

                       St. Louis Post-Dispatch (Missouri)

               December 17, 1995, Sunday, FIVE STAR LIFT Edition

AMERICANS SEE NATION CHANGING . . . AND WONDER

BYLINE: Philip Dine Of the Post-Dispatch Staff

SECTION: WAR PAGE; Pg. 5B

LENGTH: 1059 words


OVER THE PAST three decades, immigration to the United States has been big,
diverse and sustained.

That helps explain why, in a nation after all built on immigration, the topic is
generating such emotion.

While immigration has been a consistent theme throughout U.S. history, actual
waves of newcomers typically ebbed and flowed. They came - and even left - in
response to economic conditions here.

Since immigration policy was overhauled 30 years ago, the flow has risen
steadily, increasing more sharply in 1980 and peaking in the early 1990s at more
than 1.5 million a year.

And the flow has changed in content. For two centuries immigrants overwhelmingly
were European. Now, three-quarters are Asian, Hispanic or Caribbean.

The policy shifts had their origin in the civil-rights and anti-discrimination
atmosphere of the Kennedy-Johnson era.

The Immigration Act of 1965 abolished national quotas that for decades had let
in Europeans while keeping others out. People from poor and large countries
suddenly had a shot - and many leaped at it. The law also made it easier for new
immigrants to bring relatives, setting off an expanding circle of family
reunifications.

Critics claim that while well intentioned, this and later reforms have had
unintended consequences that are altering America with too little scrutiny.

"The rest of us stand on the sidelines wondering when this chain immigration
will end," says Dan Stein of the Federation for American Immigration Reform in
Washington, "and the answer is there's no end in sight."

Others counter that what's rising most ominously is not immigration but
xenophobia.

"Anti-immigrant sentiment has reached almost hysterical proportions," says
Muriel Heiberger of the Massachusetts Immigrant and Refugee Advocacy Coalition.
"Many of us are struggling to understand what is causing this backlash."

Signs of concern abound.

Polls show six of 10 Americans favor reducing immigration.

Congress plans to get tough, lumping legal and illegal immigrants into one bill.
Immigrant advocates urge separating the two categories but concede that in the
present climate, curbs on both are more likely.

Some Republican presidential candidates want to barricade the U.S.-Mexican
border or make English the official language. President Bill Clinton says
scapegoating the newcomers risks dividing the nation.

Immigration policy even was last year's national high school debate topic.

Public and political anxiety over immigrants used to be cyclical, like the flows
themselves.

"This is the first time in a long time where it looks as if it's not going to go
away," says Washington University's Steve Legomsky, whose textbook on
immigration policy is used in 80 law schools. Previous Cycles

Details of past immigration vary but not the pattern: waves of newcomers
followed by public reaction and shifts in policy. A lull would set in - allowing
emotions to subside, attention to shift and immigrants to assimilate - until the
next go-around.

The 1850s saw German and Irish immigrants bump into the Native American Party's
call for patriots to save the country from foreigners "of an ignorant and
immoral character." But the Civil War led to a focus on more pressing matters.

The West soon needed workers, and Chinese helped build the railroads, followed
by waves of Swedes, Norwegians and Italians. In reaction, Congress imposed the
first federal restrictions, in place from 1875 to 1921. Most related to personal
traits - barring paupers and illiterates, prostitutes and anarchists. The
Chinese Exclusion Act of 1882 was the first ban based on nationality and was not
repealed until 1943.

Immigration rose at the turn of the century, as Latin, Greek, Jewish and Slav
immigrants changed the Northeast's urban flavor, setting a record of 8.8 million
in the first decade before World War I nipped it.

The flow began to pick up after the war, but public suspicion of things foreign,
aroused by such events as the Russian Revolution, sparked in 1921 the first
numerical limits.

The National Origins Act, which lasted until 1965, aimed to keep America looking
as it did - northern and western European - by basing admissions on the
proportion of U.S. citizens who traced their ancestry to a given country.

The new policies, the Depression and World War II slowed immigration from the
mid-1920s to the mid-1960s. Modern Surge

About 18 million legal immigrants have arrived in the past three decades. From
1991 to 1994 alone, 4.5 million received immigrant status - twice the number of
the entire 1950s, though a portion of the former had entered illegally before
1982 and now were taking advantage of an amnesty program.

The 1965 Act treated all countries equally, allowing up to 20,000 immigrants a
year, with an overall ceiling. Immediate relatives of U.S. citizens were exempt
from the limits.

People previously blocked by the national quotas quickly filled the overall
allowance - and built up pools of eligible relatives.

The Refugee Act of 1980 recognized those fleeing oppression or catastrophe as a
separate category of immigrants, with the president setting annual limits based
on foreign crises.

The Immigration Reform and Control Act of 1986 confronted a rise in illegal
aliens by imposing sanctions on their employers and setting an amnesty for those
here before 1982. About 3 million took advantage.

An amendment in 1990 raised the overall ceiling of immigration.

Now, a typical year's influx might consist of 800,000 legal immigrants -
including 100,000 refugees - and 300,000 illegal aliens.

Those favoring immigration point out that the turn-of-the-century flows far
exceeded today's in relative terms. Indeed, the foreign-born portion of the
total population reached a peak of 15 percent in 1910.

But today, at 9 percent, it is the highest in 45 years.

Though there's room for debate on comparative figures, several trends are clear:

Immigrants now are more numerous.

Most come from Third World countries.

Illegal aliens are a large factor.

The flow has been long-lasting.

"Anytime there's a social event that makes people uncomfortable, it's good to
have a break," says Legomsky, who has advised Russia and Ukraine on immigration
policy and who opposes curbing legal immigration. "But there's been no
cooling-off period."

LOAD-DATE: December 19, 1995

LANGUAGE: English

GRAPHIC: GRAPHIC; Graphic/Chart - LEGAL IMMIGRATION TO THE UNITED STATES From
The Top Countries Of Last Residence - 1821-1994 1821-1840 Ireland - Germany -
U.K. - Other 1841-1860 Ireland - Germany - U.K. - France - Canada - Other
1861-1880 Germany - U.K. - Ireland - Canada - Norway/Sweden - Other 1881-1900
Germany - U.K. - Ireland - Italy - Austria/Hungary - Other 1901-1920 Italy -
Austria/Hungary - Russia - Canada - U.K. - Other 1921-1940 Canada - Germany -
Italy - Mexico - U.K. - Other 1941-1960 Germany - Canada - Mexico - U.K. - Italy
- Other 1961-1980 Mexico - Canada - Cuba - Philippines - U.K. - Other
1981-1994** Mexico - Philippines - China - Korea - Vietnam - Other
**Fourteen-year period. SOURCE: Immigration and Naturalization Service

                  Copyright 1995 St. Louis Post-Dispatch, Inc.


                              125 of 308 DOCUMENTS

                       St. Louis Post-Dispatch (Missouri)

              December 30, 1995, Saturday, FIVE STAR LIFT Edition

BRIEFS

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 5A

LENGTH: 573 words

BRIEFS/NATION/WORLD COLUMN


NATION WISCONSIN 4 Pigs Live Through Fire, Saving 30-Year Project

The survival of four pigs after a fire at University of Wisconsin at Madison's
Agricultural Research Station in Arlington likely means that a 30-year research
project into the genetic causes of heart disease can continue.

For nearly 30 years, researcher Jan Rapacz has bred one group of pigs to develop
heart disease so efficiently that they died after living only a few years.

While the loss of nearly 700 pigs in the fire is significant, the fact that the
four pigs survived means that Rapacz should be able to rebuild the population
quickly and resume his research. Milwaukee Journal Sentinel +++++
WORLD El SALVADOR U.S. To Extend Permits For Working Immigrants

The U.S. government will extend work permits for three months for thousands of
immigrants from El Salvador who came to the United States seeking political
asylum from the civil war in their country.

Most Salvadorans granted work authorization in a program known as Deferred
Enforced Departure are entitled to hearings on their immigration status under
terms of a settlement of a 1985 lawsuit.

Plaintiffs accused the government of improperly using political considerations
to determine whether they were eligible for asylum as political refugees.

Work authorizations that were scheduled to expire on Jan. 31 will be extended
automatically to April 30, the Immigration and Naturalization Service said
Thursday in Washington. AP +++++
COLOMBIA Rebels Clash With Police In Fighting Over A Town

Ten policemen and six leftist rebels were killed in overnight fighting for
control of a town in northern Colombia, police and military officials said.

They said the fighting, in which 11 police officers were wounded, erupted after
more than 100 Revolutionary Armed Forces of Colombia rebels raided the town of
Achi, about 265 miles north of Bogota, the capital.

The rebels attacked at night and fled into the jungle at dawn Friday when army
reinforcements backed by helicopter gunships were dispatched to the area.
Reuters +++++
ZIMBABWE Leader To Seek New Term; Expected To Win Easily

Robert Mugabe will seek a new six-year term as president in an election March
16-17, the government said in an official gazette Friday in Harare.

Mugabe, who has ruled Zimbabwe for more than 15 years, was prime minister from
1980 to 1987 when he became executive president under a constitutional
amendment.

He won a landslide victory in the country's first presidential election in 1990
and is expected to win a new term easily in March. Reuters +++++
INDIA Electrical Short Blamed For Blaze That Killed 538

An electrical short caused the fire that killed at least 538 people attending a
school play in northern India, a newspaper reported Friday, citing a
confidential government report.

Arson was ruled out in the report, released by a state official. A federal
investigation into the blaze in Dabwali began Thursday.

About 1,000 people were attending a year-end school program Dec. 23 when fire
trapped many of them inside a tent-like structure.

The report cited in New Delhi's Times of India said an electrical short ignited
the walls and the fire spread swiftly through the structure, which was
surrounded by a 10-foot-high brick wall. There were only two openings in the
wall: One was locked, and the other was too small to accommodate the fleeing
crowd. AP

LOAD-DATE: December 31, 1995

LANGUAGE: English

                  Copyright 1995 St. Louis Post-Dispatch, Inc.


                              126 of 308 DOCUMENTS

                       St. Louis Post-Dispatch (Missouri)

                December 30, 1995, Saturday, THREE STAR Edition

BRIEFS

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 5A

LENGTH: 573 words

BRIEFS/NATION/WORLD COLUMN


NATION WISCONSIN 4 Pigs Live Through Fire, Saving 30-Year Project

The survival of four pigs after a fire at University of Wisconsin at Madison's
Agricultural Research Station in Arlington likely means that a 30-year research
project into the genetic causes of heart disease can continue.

For nearly 30 years, researcher Jan Rapacz has bred one group of pigs to develop
heart disease so efficiently that they died after living only a few years.

While the loss of nearly 700 pigs in the fire is significant, the fact that the
four pigs survived means that Rapacz should be able to rebuild the population
quickly and resume his research. Milwaukee Journal Sentinel +++++
WORLD El SALVADOR U.S. To Extend Permits For Working Immigrants

The U.S. government will extend work permits for three months for thousands of
immigrants from El Salvador who came to the United States seeking political
asylum from the civil war in their country.

Most Salvadorans granted work authorization in a program known as Deferred
Enforced Departure are entitled to hearings on their immigration status under
terms of a settlement of a 1985 lawsuit.

Plaintiffs accused the government of improperly using political considerations
to determine whether they were eligible for asylum as political refugees.

Work authorizations that were scheduled to expire on Jan. 31 will be extended
automatically to April 30, the Immigration and Naturalization Service said
Thursday in Washington. AP +++++
COLOMBIA Rebels Clash With Police In Fighting Over A Town

Ten policemen and six leftist rebels were killed in overnight fighting for
control of a town in northern Colombia, police and military officials said.

They said the fighting, in which 11 police officers were wounded, erupted after
more than 100 Revolutionary Armed Forces of Colombia rebels raided the town of
Achi, about 265 miles north of the capital Bogota.

The rebels attacked at night and fled into the jungle at dawn Friday when army
reinforcements backed by helicopter gunships were dispatched to the area.
Reuters +++++
ZIMBABWE Leader To Seek New Term; Expected To Win Easily

Robert Mugabe will seek a new six-year term as president in an election March
16-17, the government said in an official gazette Friday in Harare.

Mugabe, who has ruled Zimbabwe for more than 15 years, was prime minister from
1980 to 1987 when he became executive president under a constitutional
amendment.

He won a landslide victory in the country's first presidential election in 1990
and is expected to win a new term easily in March. Reuters +++++
INDIA Electrical Short Blamed For Blaze That Killed 538

An electrical short caused the fire that killed at least 538 people attending a
school play in northern India, a newspaper reported Friday, citing a
confidential government report.

Arson was ruled out in the report, released by a state official. A federal
investigation into the blaze in Dabwali began Thursday.

About 1,000 people were attending a year-end school program Dec. 23 when fire
trapped many of them inside a tent-like structure.

The report cited in New Delhi's Times of India said an electrical short ignited
the walls and the fire spread swiftly through the structure, which was
surrounded by a 10-foot-high brick wall. There were only two openings in the
wall: One was locked, and the other was too small to accommodate the fleeing
crowd. AP

LOAD-DATE: December 30, 1995

LANGUAGE: English

GRAPHIC: Color graphic/sketch of Snoopy - Peanuts Artist Still Has Fun - After
45 years of drawing the Peanuts comic strip, which he wanted to call Li'l Folks,
Charles Schulz still can't wait to get to work every morning EVERYDAY (PAGE) 1D

                  Copyright 1995 St. Louis Post-Dispatch, Inc.


                              127 of 308 DOCUMENTS

                       St. Louis Post-Dispatch (Missouri)

                   March 3, 1996, Sunday, THREE STAR Edition

VISA LOTTERY RACIST, ITS OPPONENTS SAY; BUT IT SURVIVES CALLS FOR IMMIGRATION
REFORM

BYLINE: David Beard Fort Lauderdale Sun-Sentinel

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 10D

LENGTH: 469 words

DATELINE: WASHINHTON


It's time to play visa lotto again. Time to give 55,000 people with no direct
family ties to the United States or desperately needed job skills visas to live
in the United States legally.

But the players may come only from certain nations, and not the big emigrant
countries such as Canada, the Dominican Republic, Britain, Haiti, Jamaica or
Mexico.

Legislators call the visa lottery, which in the past has disproportionately
benefited immigrant hopefuls from Ireland and Poland, the "diversity immigrant
visa program." Opponents call the lottery racist, for its past emphasis on
Caucasian immigrants.

The deadline to apply this year is March 12.

Some Caribbean and Latin American refugee advocates, in unusual agreement with
groups seeking to limit U.S. immigration, wonder how the visa lottery has
survived when polls show eight of every 10 Americans think immigration rates
should be dramatically scaled back.

"It deserves to be among the first possible cuts in any reform of immigration,"
said Arthur Helton, who championed the rights of South Florida-bound Cuban and
Haitian boat people in the early 1990s.

The visa lottery flies in the face of the United States' two main immigration
goals for the last decade - allowing in close family members of American
citizens and people with specialized job skills - Helton said. He directs
migration programs at the Open Society Institute in New York.

The lottery was created as a reaction to the 1986 immigration reform act. The
act, by emphasizing family unification and specialized job skills, had closed
off the immigration option to many European nations that had sent large numbers
of people to United States for centuries.

There have been several attempts to end the visa lottery.

Last year Congress eliminated the provision reserving 16,000 of the 55, 000
annual spots for Irish citizens and opened the program to Africans.

Earlier this year, the U.S. bipartisan commission on immigration recommended
that the lottery be ended. So did the author of a pending bill on immigration,
Rep. Lamar Smith, R-Texas. So did Doris Meissner, the commissioner of the
Immigration and Naturalization Service. Even the nation's biggest Hispanic
lobbying group, the National Council of La Raza, would not back the lottery.

"There is widespread support, including from the administration, for elimination
of . . . the diversity program," Meissner said at a congressional hearing in
September.

That is not the view of Rep. Charles Schumer, D-N.Y., whose constituency
includes neighborhoods replenished by new Irish and Polish families. Schumer has
amended the immigration bill to preserve 27,000 slots each year for a lottery.

He argues that 27,000 is a small fraction of the 750,000 people immigrating
legally to the United States each year.

LOAD-DATE: March 3, 1996

LANGUAGE: English

                  Copyright 1996 St. Louis Post-Dispatch, Inc.


                              128 of 308 DOCUMENTS

                       St. Louis Post-Dispatch (Missouri)

                March 21, 1996, Thursday, FIVE STAR LIFT Edition

DEADLINE PROMPTS THOUSANDS TO RENEW THEIR GREEN CARDS

BYLINE: The Associated Press

SECTION: WAR PAGE; Pg. 5B

LENGTH: 363 words

DATELINE: WASHINGTON


THOUSANDS OF legal immigrants, some responding to rumors of mass deportations,
rushed to federal offices nationwide Wednesday to renew expiring green cards.

Immigration officials said no penalties were threatened against those with
expired cards.

Since late 1993, the Immigration and Naturalization Service has asked those with
permanent resident alien permits issued before 1979 to renew their green cards.

But word apparently failed to reach many.

"I heard nothing . . . whatsoever, not until 6 a.m. on the radio," Larry Healy,
a 67-year-old retired railroad worker originally from Ireland, said as he waited
in line at the Los Angeles INS office.

Standing next to Healy, 31-year-old South Korean native Sunmi Choi said she only
learned of Wednesday's deadline when her mother woke her and rushed her off
downtown. "I just dropped everything and came down here," she said.

In San Antonio, a spokesman for the Immigration Service expressed skepticism
that latecomers were unaware of the deadline. "We've been in this roughly two
years and these folks have had a lot of time to get in and do this," said
spokesman Ray Dudley. "A lot of them will say 'I just heard.' But actually, I
think they just waited until the last minute."

Still, many immigrants were confused about which document had expired.

Kim Ogden, an agency spokesman in Dallas, said many who showed up at that office
worried that other immigration documents were expiring. And rumors were
circulating of "mass deportations" for holders of expired cards, he said.

Lack of a new green card doesn't change a person's status as a legal resident.
But failure to obtain a new card could pose problems for those who travel abroad
and then try to return to the United States, as well as for legal immigrants
applying for benefits with the now-expired document.

The Immigration and Naturalization Service began the card-replacement effort in
November 1993 to try to deter counterfeiting of the green card.

Of the 1.5 million people estimated in 1993 to be holders of the older cards,
probably 200,000 to 300,000 have yet to replace their documents, said INS Deputy
Commissioner Chris Sale.

LOAD-DATE: March 21, 1996

LANGUAGE: English

GRAPHIC: PHOTO; Photo From AP - Hundreds line up Wednesday in Los Angeles to
renew their green cards. Permanent resident alien permits issued before 1979
expired Wednesday.

                  Copyright 1996 St. Louis Post-Dispatch, Inc.


                              129 of 308 DOCUMENTS

                       St. Louis Post-Dispatch (Missouri)

               March 27, 1996, Wednesday, FIVE STAR LIFT Edition

DON'T SHUT OUT THOSE YEARNING TO BREATHE FREE

BYLINE: Lynn Lyss

SECTION: EDITORIAL; Pg. 7B

LENGTH: 723 words

COMMENTARY COLUMN


Last week the U.S. House of Representatives took a wise and humane step in
voting to drop provisions from an immigration reform bill that would have
seriously harmed families and would have sent the wrong message about U.S.
concern for human rights.

Now the Senate has the opportunity to take the same smart step. A bill sponsored
by Sen. Alan Simpson, R-Wyo., and scheduled to be heard in the Senate shortly
proposes to reduce drastically the level of legal immigration by 30 percent and
eliminate categories for family members for admissions.

With all the focus on immigration, perhaps it's time to re-examine what it means
to this country and what benefits we have gained. Immigrants helped make this
country what it is today. In fact, most of us are desce ndants of immigrants -
brave people who risked the journey to escape persecution, with the hope of
making better lives for themselves and their children.

In the United States today, immigrants contribute more than they take in. They
boost our economy, work hard, pay taxes and form strong family units. In fact,
studies show that immigrants pay more in taxes than they receive in benefits,
according to the "Statistical Yearbook of the Immigration and Naturalization
Service, 1992." Moreover, the longer they stay in the United States, the higher
their incomes are likely to be. People who arrived before 1980 have an average
income that is 10 percent greater than native-born American households,
according to "Setting the Record Straight."

In addition to restricting admissions, the Simpson bill would mark a significant
retreat from this country's tradition of offering a generous immigration policy
for family reunification.

The Senate bill seeks to redefine "family." Brothers and sisters of U.S.
citizens would no longer be eligible to immigrate nor would adult married and
unmarried children. Parents of U.S. citizens would have to be 65 years or older
and would be required to obtain medical insurance before they were given an
immigrant visa - a virtually impossible obstacle. Moreover, parents could
immigrate only if 50 percent of their children resided permanently in the United
States.

Imagine being split permanently from your parents simply because they could not
get health insurance. Or imagine being separated from your child because the
majority of your other children did not live in the same place.

The family has always been an integral and important part of American life, and
it is the basic principle of the family reunification program. It comes as no
surprise that about 73 percent of all immigrants come to join close family
members.

For a nation that claims to support family unity and values, the impact of the
Simpson bill would be very anti-family.

Additionally, efforts to reduce dramatically the flow of refugees to the United
States were proposed in Congress - despite the commitment of the United States
to remain a world leader in human rights. Fortunately, these restrictive
provisions were beaten back.

In the past seven years, approximately 1,500 Jewish refugees from the former
Soviet Union have been resettled in the St. Louis area. This community of new
Americans is highly motivated, educated and focused. As soon as they are able,
they obtain green cards and work actively toward naturalization. As a whole, the
community is very dynamic and strives toward self-sufficiency. Parents are
involved in the community and their children's schools. Many of these youngsters
have gone on to study at local universities and colleges and have become
professionals.

Imagine how different all our lives would be if Albert Einstein had been told he
was not allowed to enter the United States. Picture fashion without Liz
Claiborne or the arts without Mikhail Baryshnikov, Yo-Yo Ma or Elizabeth Taylor.
One needs only to open a history book or the newspaper to see concrete examples
of the good that was achieved and continues to be achieved by immigrants.

Turning people away from a country that has always accepted "your tired, your
poor, your huddled masses yearning to breathe free" would change the very fiber
of the country in which we live.

America is a nation of immigrants. Today's immigrants are tomorrow's Americans.
Today's seekers of the American Dream will be tomorrow's defenders of American
life.

LOAD-DATE: March 27, 1996

LANGUAGE: English

                  Copyright 1996 St. Louis Post-Dispatch, Inc.


                              130 of 308 DOCUMENTS

                       St. Louis Post-Dispatch (Missouri)

               April 24, 1996, Wednesday, FIVE STAR LIFT Edition

ASYLUM URGED FOR SOME WOMEN WHO FEAR MUTILATION; CLINTON ADMINISTRATION TAGS
'EXTREME' CASES FOR PROTECTION

BYLINE: Michael J. Sniffen Of The Associated Press

SECTION: WAR PAGE; Pg. 5B

LENGTH: 601 words

DATELINE: WASHINGTON


PRESIDENT BILL Clinton's administration wants political asylum to be granted to
a limited number of the millions of young women who face genital mutilation in
African and Middle Eastern cultures.

In a brief filed with the Board of Immigration Appeals, the Immigration and
Naturalization Service argued that fear of genital mutilation should be
justification for asylum but only for those women who would be forced into the
most extreme forms of it if sent home.

"There are certain extreme practices that shock the conscience . . . even when
done for ostensibly benign reasons," David A. Martin, general counsel of the
immigration service, said in an interview Tuesday.

If the administration's argument were adopted, asylum would rarely if ever be
available on this basis to the more than 80 million women already subjected to
the process in several dozen African and Middle Eastern nations, Martin said.

Immigration rights advocates had some praise for the brief but condemned the
government for asking the court to foreclose certain asylum claims with general
rules not based on a review of each individual claim of persecution.

This was the administration's third alteration of policy in response to
complaints that immigration law fails to recognize persecution of women:

Last month, it began allowing battered spouses of U.S. citizens to apply for
permanent residence themselves instead of depending on their batterer to apply.

In 1994, the administration advised immigration officers that they could
postpone indefinitely deportation of women who faced forced abortions in China
even though the Board of Immigration Appeals ruled that such fear cannot justify
asylum. So far, this policy has allowed 30 women to avoid return to China.

Last year, new guidelines were issued to help immigration officers identify
women who should get asylum because sexual violence has been used for political
persecution in their homeland. Under this policy, three women have gotten asylum
based on fear of genital mutilation. It also has been applied to other sexual
violence, like rape during civil wars abroad.

But these guidelines apply only to immigration officers who rule on aliens
caught inside this country.

They do not apply to immigration judges, who hear cases of aliens s eized at
ports or borders. Two immigration judges have denied asylum and one has granted
asylum based on fear of genital mutilation.

To resolve the issue, the entire 12-member Board of Immigration Appeals will
hear an appeal May 2 by 18-year-old Fauziya Kasinga who fled from Togo in late
1994 to avoid genital mutilation. She has been jailed ever since her arrival in
this country and was denied asylum by an immigration judge in August.

"In its most extreme forms, female genital mutilation is deeply obj ectionable
to most of the world community," the government brief argued, citing
condemnations by the U.N. General Assembly and some nations where it is
practiced.

Begun in the 5th century B.C., the custom is observed by some Muslims,
Christians and adherents of traditional religions in Africa and Asia. It ranges
from cutting the hood of the clitoris to the removal of the clitoris as well as
tissue at the entrance to the vagina, the brief said.

Usually, it is performed "with unsterilized instruments such as razor blades,
broken glass and knives and without anesthesia," the brief continued. It can
produce excruciating pain, tetanus, rupture of the vaginal walls, infertility,
painful sexual intercourse, chronic infections, incontinence, increased risk in
childbirth - and even death.

LOAD-DATE: April 24, 1996

LANGUAGE: English

                  Copyright 1996 St. Louis Post-Dispatch, Inc.


                              131 of 308 DOCUMENTS

                       St. Louis Post-Dispatch (Missouri)

                 April 29, 1996, Monday, FIVE STAR LIFT Edition

IMMIGRATION OFFICIALS SEEK TO DEPORT AIDE TO SHEIK

SECTION: WAR PAGE; Pg. 13B

LENGTH: 299 words

DATELINE: NEW YORK


THE IMMIGRATION and Naturalization Service will attempt in hearings beginning
today to deport a top aide to jailed Sheik Omar Abdel-Rahman, who is in jail for
plotting to blow up New York landmarks.

However, a lawyer for the aide, Nasser Mohammed Ahmed, is arguing that if his
client is sent back to Egypt he would be tortured and murdered.

Ahmed, an electrical engineer who lives in New York, was arrested Tuesday by
immigration agents after he entered a federal building to attend a conference
with an immigration judge.

An immigration spokesman said Ahmed was arrested "as a result of new information
that has been brought to our attention." He would not elaborate.

Ahmed had been free on a $ 15,000 bond while contesting charges that he had
overstayed his visa.

Under provisions of a new anti-terrorism bill signed by President Bill Clinton
last week, immigration authorities can now more easily deport foreigners
suspected of terrorism.

Ahmed's attorney, former U.S. Attorney General Ramsey Clark, said his client was
named as an unindicted co-conspirator released by the government last year
during the trial of Abdel-Rahman and nine of his followers. They were convicted
in October of plotting to bomb the United Nations and other landmarks in New
York City.

According to court papers filed by the defense, "A principal defense to his
deportation is the fact that he would be persecuted, tortured and murdered if he
was turned over to government police in Egypt and is entitled to political
asylum in the U.S."

Ramsey said Ahmed also regularly visits Abdel-Rahman at the federal prison
medical center in Springfield, Mo. Ahmed has been Abdel-Rahman's translator
since 1992. During the sheik's trial Ahmed served as a translator and paralegal
for Abdel-Rahman.

LOAD-DATE: April 29, 1996

LANGUAGE: English

                  Copyright 1996 St. Louis Post-Dispatch, Inc.


                              132 of 308 DOCUMENTS

                       St. Louis Post-Dispatch (Missouri)

                 May 4, 1996, Saturday, FIVE STAR LIFT Edition

BRIDGE-BUILDING PROTECTS IMMIGRATION

BYLINE: Lori Montgomery 1996, Knight-Ridder Newspapers

SECTION: WAR PAGE; Pg. 11B

LENGTH: 1022 words

DATELINE: WASHINGTON


GIVE SPENCER ABRAHAM a robe and a torch. And send him your huddled masses
yearning to breathe free.

The Republican leadership of Congress was poised to cut immigration quotas - a
step that would have blocked entry to tens of thousands of foreign-born
relatives of American citizens.

But then Abraham, a wet-behind-the-ears Republican senator from Michigan with
less than two years in the Senate, performed a Washington miracle.

Without offending his elders, without breaking any rules, without any ba ckroom
deals or dark threats or sleazy political trade-ffs, he organized his
colleagues, his friends and even some ideological adversaries into a force that
overcame one of the Capitol's wiliest veterans.

On Thursday, Abraham's victory was complete as the Senate approved a bill that
maintains legal immigration at current levels.

In an interview this week in his Capitol Hill office, Abraham, the grandson of
Lebanese immigrants, described the fight as a battle to protect Michigan's
ethnic communities - from Dutch families in Holland, Mich., to one of the
nation's largest Arab-American populations in Detroit.

But it was also an effort to champion open borders and ethnic diversity at a
time when "I watched at least some of the Republican Party moving in a different
direction," Abraham said. The reference was to failed GOP presidential candidate
Pat Buchanan, who called for building an enormous security fence along the
border with Mexico.

Abraham said, "I felt it was important for the party to be out front on this
side of the issue rather than to be seen as a nativist party that was hostile to
people who came from diverse ethnic backgrounds. My feeling was that people in
the Republican Party who felt the way I did needed to stand up and be counted."

He did far more than be counted: Both his supporters and his detractors agree
that the freshman senator played a crucial role in shaping the Senate's
immigration bill.

"If Spence Abraham hadn't been elected to the U.S. Senate, we would have seen
cuts to legal immigration this year, and we would have seen American citizens
not being able to sponsor their own children to come to this country," said
Stuart Anderson, a policy analyst at the CATO Institute, a libertarian think
tank.

"He was willing to take on an issue that many people were saying was already
decided," Anderson said. "And I think he stood on principle, which is rare these
days."

The stage for the battle was set last year, when Sen. Alan Simpson of Wyoming, a
GOP elder statesman, signaled his intention to seek reductions in legal
immigration along with more popular measures to crack down on illegal
immigrants.

Simpson, for years the Senate's leading voice on immigration issues, argued that
the rising tide of legal immigrants - now approaching a million people a year -
was "straining the fabric of the country."

Currently, the U.S. issues an unlimited number of visas for the foreign-born
spouses, parents and minor children of American citizens, about 250,000 a year.
An additional 226,000 visas are available for the adult children, brothers and
sisters of citizens and for the spouses and minor children of legal permanent
residents who lack citizen status.

In addition, 140,000 visas are available to employers who seek to hire foreign
workers, and 55,000 visas are available through a lottery.

Simpson proposed to cut each of these categories and to cap family reunification
visas at 480,000, a proposal that would have reduced legal immigration by a
third over the next three years and pushed the adult children and siblings of
U.S. residents to the bottom of the preference list.

Abraham alerted Simpson that he intended to oppose him, a courtesy that later
paid off. Abraham also refused invitations to debate Simpson outside the Capitol
and paid deference to Simpson's seniority in the Senate, from which he intends
to retire next year.

Those careful efforts prevented the battle from becoming personal, observers
said, and earned Abraham points among Senate leaders.

Aides to Mississippi Sen. Trent Lott, the No. 2 GOP leader in the Senate,
"commented that Abraham had conducted himself with the utmost respect for
Simpson throughout the debate and that Abraham had showed a lot of class, " the
CATO's Anderson said. "It played an important role in convincing Lott and
(Senate Majority Leader Bob) Dole that Abraham deserved a clear shot at making
his case."

Meanwhile, Abraham built a far-flung coalition that included big business and
big labor, Christian conservatives and civil libertarians - even a taxpayer
watchdog group. Summoned to his office for the first time last fall, many were
wary.

Frank Sharry, the Democratic executive director of the National Immigration
Forum, a liberal, pro-immigration coalition, said, "For some of us, it was the
first time we'd ever met with a Republican senator. And I remember thinking I
didn't know what to expect.

"I walked in thinking, 'Here's a guy who's only interested in helping the
business community. He probably doesn't care about family immigration.' " So
Sharry was astonished when Abraham opened by saying that he was as committed to
making sure families could be reunited as to ensuring that business could
continue hiring skilled foreign workers. "It was like: 'This guy's speaking to
me,' " Sharry said. "It's affected my entire view of the Republican Party."

Abraham's battle began in earnest this spring in the Senate Judiciary Committee.
Through much of March, Abraham and Simpson jousted. In the end, Abraham won an
11-4 vote to split legal and illegal immigration reforms into separate bills.

Abraham's final confrontation came last week when the issue moved to the Senate
floor. There, Simpson made a last-ditch effort to revive the cuts in legal
immigration.

Abraham warned that the amendment would "virtually wipe out . . . the ability of
married or adult children of citizens to come here." That argument prevailed,
and the Senate on April 25 rejected Simpson's amendment 80-20. The bill cleared
the Senate on Thursday and was sent to a conference committee.

LOAD-DATE: May 4, 1996

LANGUAGE: English

GRAPHIC: PHOTO; Photos by AP (1) Sen. Alan Simpson, R-Wyoming, argued that the
rising tide of legal immigrants was "straining the fabric of the country." Sen.
Edward Kennedy, D-Mass., is in the background. (2) Without offending his elders,
Sen. Spencer Abraham, R-Mich., organized a force including his ideological
adversaries that overcame one of the Capitol's wiliest veterans.

TYPE: PROFILE SENATOR SPENCER ABRAHAM

                  Copyright 1996 St. Louis Post-Dispatch, Inc.


                              133 of 308 DOCUMENTS

                       St. Louis Post-Dispatch (Missouri)

                 June 14, 1996, Friday, FIVE STAR LIFT Edition

U.S. TRIBUNAL GRANTS ASYLUM IN GENITAL MUTILATION CASE

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 14A

LENGTH: 243 words

DATELINE: NEW YORK


The highest administrative tribunal in the U.S. immigration system granted
political asylum Thursday to a 19-year-old woman from Togo who said she had fled
from her homeland to escape having her genitals cut off.

The decision of the Board of Immigration Appeals in the case of the woman,
Fauziya Kasinga, is the first to recognize the fear of genital mutilation as a
legitimate ground for asylum. The rite is practiced on millions of women in 26
African countries.

The ruling sets a precedent that is binding on the 179 immigration judges across
the country. The few who have handled such cases have been divided in their
rulings.

The board, part of the Justice Department, rejected the argument of the
Immigration and Naturalization Service, also part of the department. The
immigration service had argued that, although genital mutilation should be a
reason for asylum in carefully defined circumstances, Kasinga's case should be
sent back to an immigration judge to consider what the immigration service said
were inconsistencies in her story.

Immigration law calls for asylum to be granted to people who can show that they
have a well-founded fear of persecution because of their race, religion,
nationality, political opinions or membership in a social group.

The ruling, written by the chairman, Paul Schmidt, said genital mutilation as
practiced by the tribe to which Kasinga belonged, the Tchamba-Kunsuntu,
constituted persecution.

LOAD-DATE: June 14, 1996

LANGUAGE: English

                  Copyright 1996 St. Louis Post-Dispatch, Inc.


                              134 of 308 DOCUMENTS

                       St. Louis Post-Dispatch (Missouri)

                    June 23, 1996, Sunday, FIVE STAR Edition

IMMIGRATION AGENCY'S MIAMI DIRECTOR IS OUT; HE'S IMPLICATED IN SCHEME TO DUPE
CONGRESS

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 6B

LENGTH: 552 words

DATELINE: MIAMI


The Miami district director for the U.S. Immigration and Naturalization Service
has been recalled to Washington as part of an inquiry into a scheme to dupe a
visiting congressional panel, the Miami Herald reported Saturday.

District Director Dan Cadman's job will be filled at least temporarily by Bob
Wallace, the immigration agency's district director in Houston, the newspaper
quoted an agency spokesman in Washington as saying.

"Miami will benefit from having Mr. Wallace, who we are confident will ensure
there are no difficulties from what is a serious and sensitive action," agency
spokesman Paul Risley said.

Cadman, who has been district director in Miami since 1993, will be assigned to
nonsupervisory duties at agency headquarters pending a Justice Department review
of the allegations, Risley said.

A Justice Department report released Friday recommended possible criminal
prosecution and disciplinary action against immigration officials who allegedly
deceived a congressional fact-finding team last year in Miami.

The inspector general's report charged that unidentified senior agency managers
sought to mislead the congressional delegation then refused to tell the truth to
their bosses or to investigators.

At issue was a June 10, 1995, visit to Miami by members of the Congressional
Task Force on Immigration Reform who were gathering information for a report for
House Speaker Newt Gingrich, R-Ga.

To avoid the appearance that the agency's Krome Service Processing Center in
Miami was understaffed and overcrowded, agency officials transferred or released
149 illegal immigrants, 40 percent of the total population, in the 48 hours
before the team arrived, the inspector general's report said.

Some of the 58 released immigrants, mostly Cubans and Haitians, had not been
given medical checkups and some had criminal records for cocaine trafficking or
burglary, the report said. It said agency managers also nearly doubled the staff
at Miami International Airport during the task force's visit.

The report said agency workers complained about the incident, and district
officials refused to acknowledge their role in the deceptions when questioned by
the inspector general's investigators. They also deleted incriminating
electronic mail messages after the allegations were made, the report said.

Catholic Bishops Speak Out

Congress is using illegal immigrants as scapegoats for the nation's social and
economic ills, the nation's Roman Catholic bishops said Friday.

Both the Senate and House are considering wide-ranging legislation that would
restrict immigration.

The House last week approved an amendment to a bill passed by the Senate that
would allow states to deny public education to illegal immigrants' children. To
pass Congress, the measure would have to be included in a final bill worked out
in a conference committee between the two houses.

Bishop Anthony Pilla, president of the National Conference of Catholic Bishops,
said, "There is a disregard for human life in this legislation, which is
inconsistent with the Gospel and which I find morally objectionable."

The bishops are holding their annual spring meeting in Portland, Ore.

The House immigration amendment got support last week from Bob Dole, the
Republican presidential candidate.

LOAD-DATE: June 24, 1996

LANGUAGE: English

                  Copyright 1996 St. Louis Post-Dispatch, Inc.


                              135 of 308 DOCUMENTS

                       St. Louis Post-Dispatch (Missouri)

                   June 30, 1996, Sunday, THREE STAR Edition

DECEPTION SPURS IMMIGRATION AGENCY FIRINGS

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 9A

LENGTH: 741 words

DATELINE: WASHINGTON


The idea was to create a mirage in the Everglades so that seven congressmen
would hail the Immigration and Naturalization Service, applauding its expertise
in managing the steady stream of undocumented foreigners into South Florida.

So just before the delegation arrived, immigration officials in Miami, with help
from the regional director's office, got rid of more than 100 detainees from an
overcrowded detention center: They released 59, including nine criminals;
shipped 61 more to different facilities; and warehoused 19 in distant jails.

Then they laid on overtime help at Miami International Airport to keep the usual
logjam at customs flowing freely and took criminal aliens out of holding cells
and let them sit in the waiting room until the delegation finished its tour. But
the INS employees union blew the whistle, and on Friday the immigration agency's
inspector general issued a 200-page report, documenting the deception in detail.

The report recommended the firing or suspension of 13 INS officials, including
the agency's eastern regional director, the director of the Miami district, and
the Washington-based director of congressional affairs.

INS Commissioner Doris Meissner relieved Eastern Regional Director Carol D.
Chasse and Miami District Director Walter D. Cadman last week, pending further
action by the Justice Department.

The report, a follow-up to a summary releasedw earlier, shows that INS officials
were worried early last year about the planned visit June 10, 1995, by seven
members of the House Task Force on Immigration.

In an e-mail message to key staff cited in the report, Cadman relayed Meissner's
concern that "it would take very little to put the kiss of death on their (the
delegation's) views toward INS." Meissner "wants a sh arp-looking, heads-up
group of employees doing their jobs," it said.

To translate this wish into action, the report said, the INS had to contend with
chronic overcrowding at the Krome Service Processing Center in the Everglades,
about 23 miles southwest of Miami, and snail's pace processing at the airport.

From the beginning, the report suggests, INS officials decided to mask these
problems: "Employees who are doing the best job under adverse conditions send
the message we want to send," said a May 23, 1995, e-mail message from Chasse,
reprinted in the report.

A few days later, INS Director of Congressional Affairs Pamela Barry met with
Miami officials to caution them that "no one should discuss (the airport's)
staffing problems with" the delegation.

On June 9, Miami Deputy District Director Valerie Blake notified Eastern
regional headquarters about overcrowding at Krome, and got permission to "move
some people out before the delegation came," the report said. That afternoon,
the report said, Krome Camp Administrator Kathy Weiss notified Blake in an
e-mail that there were 377 people in the detention center and described plans to
ship some elsewhere, including a "group to be stashed out of sight for cosmetic
purposes."

"Please advise whether Cubans can be included," the Weiss e-mail continued,
"bearing in mind the fact that moving them will probably cause the remainder to
complain, both to relatives and the congressional delegation."

Blake replied within the hour: "Thanks for your prompt response," her e-mail
said.

The report said INS sent one batch of detainees to Jackson County Jail near
Tampa and another group to Key West to await deportation. Fifty-nine detainees
were released, including 35 who had not been medically cleared and nine held for
criminal offenses such as burglary and drug trafficking.

At the airport, INS nearly doubled the staff June 10 to keep the traffic moving
through customs and to create a false impression of efficiency, the report said.
Airport holding cells were emptied and detainees there allowed to sit in an
anteroom.

The visit went off as planned. But union officials, belatedly told of the
delegation's arrival and threatened with arrest if they tried to attend a closed
airport briefing, decided to send a letter to Task Force Chairman Rep. Elton
Gallegly, R-Calif. Gallegly began the investigation.

INS officials told investigators they were in a no-win situation: "If we moved
them (the Krome detainees), we would be construed as having done something
wrong," Blake said. "If we left them there . . . we (would be) accused of not
being able to handle our workload."

LOAD-DATE: July 1, 1996

LANGUAGE: English

                  Copyright 1996 St. Louis Post-Dispatch, Inc.


                              136 of 308 DOCUMENTS

                       St. Louis Post-Dispatch (Missouri)

                   May 27, 1992, WEDNESDAY, FIVE STAR Edition

COMING TO AMERICA IMMIGRATION SERVICE INTENDS TO CLEAR UP THE RULES

BYLINE: Larry Carp

SECTION: EDITORIAL; Pg. 3C

LENGTH: 837 words


Once or twice a year, an article appears about an incident at the airport in
which the Immigration and Naturalization Service prevents a foreigner from
remaining in this country.  In many cases, the event is a traumatic one. The
person is often married or otherwise related to a U.S. citizen or permanent
resident. Often there are tears. In most such cases, the INS appears the
''heavy,'' seemingly applying tough rules in a hard-hearted way to a sympathetic
person.  As a member of the Immigration Law Committee of The Bar Association of
Metropolitan St. Louis, I would like to give the public some perspective on this
complex situation.  In most cases, people coming to this country as
non-immigrants have obtained visas from U.S. consulates abroad. These visas are,
in effect, advisory opinions to the INS inspectors asserting that the people
meet the legal requirements to enter.  These consular visas have exceptions. For
example, in an effort in 1986 to promote tourism, Congress adopted the Visa
Waiver Pilot Program. This program permits citizens from 21 countries to visit
the United States for up to three months without visas if they comply with
certain requirements. To qualify, an alien must be seeking temporary admission
for business or pleasure for up to 90 days. The alien must have a passport.
Aliens who arrive by air or by sea must have non-transferable roundtrip tickets,
valid for less than one year, on a transportation carrier that has signed a
carrier agreement with the U.S. government. (All major airlines are
participants.) The traveler need not arrive from or depart from any particular
nation, as long as all other qualifications are met.  Aliens who arrive at a
land border from Canada or Mexico need not have a valid round-trip ticket.
Rather, such people must establish that he or she is financially solvent and has
a home abroad to which they intend to return.  This 90-day period of admission
may not be extended, except in the case of a medical emergency involving either
the alien or a close family member.  Change from the visa waiver pilot program
to immigrant status is permitted only when, after entry, the alien claims status
as an immediate relative of a U.S. citizen. Aliens under the Visa Waiver Pilot
Program may not accept jobs.  They must not have violated conditions of previous
admissions.  To participate, an alien must waive all rights of appeal of
admissibility by an immigration officer and all rights to contest action in
deportation, except for asylum.  The program is useful for many aliens who seek
either to vacation or do business temporarily. It saves time and expense for
them and, hopefully, encourages tourism. The trade-off for aliens using the
program, however, is that they must abide by its strict limitations set by
Congress.  Occasionally, gray areas exist. The immigration service has the duty
to enforce these limitations. For INS officials at ports of entry such as
Lambert Field and the INS office at 1222 Spruce Street downtown, their lot is
not an easy one. They are under a sworn duty to see that U.S. immigration laws
are carried out. This task is performed graciously and amicably most of the
time.  Yet we, as immigration lawyers, feel that the public should realize the
nature and difficulty of their task.  Is there some way to avoid these sad
periodic happenings at the St. Louis airport, where some visitors arrive
innocently, unaware that U.S. laws and regulations will not permit them to stay?
When the visitors obtain consular visas at U.S. consulates abroad, perhaps
procedures could be set up for staffs to explain that they may not properly
enter the United States with ''preconceived intent,'' that is, with the intent
either to change to another non-immigrant visa or to remain in the country.
This would not be easy, since most of our consulates are understaffed and
overworked. Perhaps prospective visitors could be addressed in groups to improve
efficiency.  Perhaps instead of requiring a lack of ''preconceived intent,''
visitors should have to demonstrate a willingness, on entering, to obey our
immigration and other laws. This determination could be based on, among other
things, the foreign visitor's previous record of not having disobeyed laws
abroad, and, if the person had visited this country before, his or her record of
obeying our laws.  Under our immigration laws, it is easier for a foreign fiance
to come to this country than a foreign spouse. The reason is that Congress has
authorized consular non-immigrant visas for fiancees, which permit them to enter
even though they intend to stay. There is no such non-immigrant visa for the
spouse of a U.S. citizen or permanent resident.  We should do our best to lessen
the ambiguous, painful incidents at U.S.  ports of entry facing foreign visitors
and INS officials alike.  Larry Carp, Clayton, is past chairman of the
Immigration Law Committee of the Bar Association of Metropolitan St. Louis and a
member of two other immigration law groups.

LOAD-DATE: October 11, 1993

LANGUAGE: English

                  Copyright 1992 St. Louis Post-Dispatch, Inc.


                              137 of 308 DOCUMENTS

                       St. Louis Post-Dispatch (Missouri)

                 August 2, 1992, SUNDAY, LATE FIVE STAR Edition

SUPREME COURT BACKS RETURN OF HAITIANS JUSTICES' 7-2 VOTE BOLSTERS PRESIDENT'S;
POLICY

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 1A

LENGTH: 679 words


WASHINGTON - The Supreme Court said Saturday that President George Bush's
administration can continue to return Haitians intercepted at sea to their
Caribbean homeland.  The action, requested by the government, suspends a federal
appeals court ruling Wednesday that voided Bush's 2-month-old executive order
that Haitians fleeing by boat be escorted back to Haiti.  Justices Harry
Blackmun and John Paul Stevens dissented in the 7-2 vote, saying that the
fleeing Haitians face ''the real and immediate prospect of persecution, terror
and possibly even death at the hands of those to whom they are being forcibly
returned.'' The Supreme Court also asked for speedy consideration of the legal
merits of the administration policy. The justices asked the administrat ion to
present arguments in writing by Aug. 24 and lawyers for the Haitians to respond
by Sept. 8. The expedited timetable suggests that the court could agree to hear
the case as early as October, although a hearing in November is more likely.
Lawyers expect the Supreme Court to hear it because two appeals courts have
issued conflicting opinions on whether the administration must extend
protections provided by federal immigration law to Haitians stopped outside U.S.
territory: The 11th U.S. Circuit Court of Appeals in Atlanta ruled in February
that the Immigration and Naturalization Act of 1980 gives only those aliens who
arrive on U.S. soil the right to pursue claims for political asylum.  The 2nd
U.S. Circuit Court of Appeals in New York held Wednesday that the same statute
specifically states that refugees cannot be stopped by American officials before
they reach U.S. borders and sent back to a country where they fear their lives
or freedom are threatened. Bush's administration has said concern for the safety
of the Haitians was a major consideration for its actions. Deputy press
secretary Judy Smith said the White House was pleased that the stay ''will
continue to discourage Haitians from taking unseaworthy vessels to the United
States.'' In its request for an emergency stay, the administration told the
Supreme Court that the New York court's ruling ''effectively invalidates a
government program that has stemmed the flow of tens of thousands of Haitian
migrants and significantly erodes the executive branch's ability to deal with
the complex and fragile situation created by the ouster of the legitimate
government from Haiti.'' Lucas Guttentag, attorney for the Haitians, said he was
confident that when the case is heard, ''the court will find that the
president's order violates the most fundamental principles of U.S. and
international obligations.'' Another lawyer for the Haitians, Michael Ratner,
said, ''My only hope is that either Congress does something or elections sweep
out President Bush.'' Thousands of Haitians have been intercepted at sea and
returned to their country since Bush's order of last spring, said Ratner.  And
thousands of Haitians have sought asylum at the U.S. Embassy in Port-au-Prince
in the last few months.  About 30,000 Haitians fled their country after a
military coup deposed President Jean-Bertrand Aristide last fall.  U.S.
officials initially screened them once they arrived on U.S. soil or at the U.S.
Naval Base at Guantanamo, Cuba, if they were picked up on the high seas, to
determine if they were fleeing poverty or persecution.  More than 10,000
Haitians taken to Guantanamo have been granted entry into the United States to
pursue political asylum claims, but more than 23,000 were determined to be
economic refugees and sent back.  Bush signed his executive order in May
permitting the return of the refugees. The boat traffic declined immediately
after the United States decided to return those picked up at sea directly to
Haiti.  Bush's administration says most of those fleeing are seeking a better
economic life and do not qualify for political asylum.  In the dissent, Blackmun
said that the government has offered only ''a vague invocation of harm to
foreign policy, immigration policy and the federal treasury.''

LOAD-DATE: October 12, 1993

LANGUAGE: English

                  Copyright 1992 St. Louis Post-Dispatch, Inc.


                              138 of 308 DOCUMENTS

                       St. Louis Post-Dispatch (Missouri)

                 September 3, 1992, THURSDAY, FIVE STAR Edition

3 HIV-INFECTED HAITIANS ALLOWED INTO U.S.

SECTION: WAR PAGE; Pg. 1C

LENGTH: 289 words


WASHINGTON (REST) IMMIGRATION commissioner Gene McNary has waived regulations to
allow three HIV-infected Haitians held at the U.S. Navy base at Guantanamo,
Cuba, to come to American hospitals for treatment.  The decision, which grants
the Haitians ''humanitarian parole,'' is the first breach in a wall of rules,
policies and court decisions that have combined to prevent nearly 300 Haitians
at Guantanamo from entering the United States because either they or a family
member on whom they depend has tested positive for HIV, the virus that causes
AIDS. Whether others will be brought to the United States for treatment if they
develop medical problems is a question immigration officials will answer on a
case-by-case basis, said Richard Kenney, spokesman for the Immigration and
Naturalization Service.  A 1987 rule that bars entry to the United States to
foreigners who have tested positive for HIV has drawn criticism worldwide. The
rule recently led to the shift of a conference on AIDS to Amsterdam,
Netherlands, from Boston when some participants were not granted visas.  The
three Haitians for whom the rule was waived include a man sent to Bethesda Naval
Hospital for the treatment of an eye fungus about 10 days ago and a mother and
baby evacuated to a children's hospital in Norfolk, Va., Tuesday night because
the child had pneumonia and needed a respirator. They are expected to remain in
the United States. Once on American soil, they have the right to legal counsel.
''While it may be politically awkward for the administration, the decision to
parole the HIV Haitians is an appropriate humanitarian response,'' said Arthur
C. Helton, refugee project director for the Lawyers' Committee for Human Rights.

LOAD-DATE: October 12, 1993

LANGUAGE: English

                  Copyright 1992 St. Louis Post-Dispatch, Inc.


                              139 of 308 DOCUMENTS

                       St. Louis Post-Dispatch (Missouri)

                November 8, 1992, SUNDAY, LATE FIVE STAR Edition

IT TOOK SOME TIME, BUT MCNARY GAINED RESPECT AS INS HEAD EX-ST. LOUIS COUNTY;
EXECUTIVE WEATHERED POLICY BATTLES AND CRITICISM FROM WITHIN

BYLINE: Dale Singer Of the Post-Dispatch Staff

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 4B

LENGTH: 1470 words


WASHINGTON AFTER THREE YEARS navigating the stormy seas of immigration, Gene
McNary not only has survived but has won solid support from surprising sources.
''McNary was a positive voice in behalf of the Haitian boat people during that
particular controversy,'' said Arthur C. Helton, a persistent critic of the
nation's immigration policy.  ''He has had a really progressive attitude toward
family unification,'' added Warren Leiden, who heads the American Immigration
Lawyers Association.  ''He has been compassionate and expansive in his views of
legal immigration,'' concluded Stephen Legomsky, a Washington University law
professor and immigration expert.  When McNary left his job as St. Louis County
executive in 1989 to accept President George Bush's appointment as commissioner
of the Immigration and Naturalization Service, comments about him were hardly as
kind as those.  Inexperienced in immigration or Washington, he was blasted by
those who felt the top spot at INS was no place for on-the-job training.
Moreover, McNary was taking over an agency that had drawn constant complaints of
mismanagement and misguided policy.  With Tuesday's election results, McNary's
term is likely to end next year.  No one claims he will leave behind an INS that
is a bureaucratic paradise, not even McNary.  But he said he was pleased with
the positive reviews, and looking back during an interview in the waning days of
the presidential campaign, he said he didn't think his lack of immigration
experience was all that bad.  No Constituency ''If you take somebody in this job
who has a constituency,'' he said, ''then he goes in with everybody else as an
opponent. The one thing I had going for me was that I was objective.  ''I was
really brought in for my management experience rather than for any philosophy. I
didn't have any preconceived notions. I had worked with constituencies, I had
had management experience, and I had been in government.  Probably the fact that
I was an elected official was important, because my guess is that I have been
more responsive to outside groups.'' The first outside group McNary worked with
was one he put together. Shortly after his nomination, he contacted Legomsky at
Washington University for an intensive tutorial on immigration policy. Legomsky
is pleased with his pupil.  ''I'm a liberal Democrat,'' he said, ''I went into
that with an ideology very different from Gene's. In fairness, he really has
done an excellent job.'' After his confirmation, McNary convened what he calls
his ''think tank'' - a diverse group including Legomsky, Leiden and Helton - to
meet monthly for a free-wheeling discussion of immigration issues. The outreach
has been praised by all participants.  Helton, director of the Refugee Project
of the Lawyers Committee for Human Rights, found McNary's open-door policy
refreshing.  ''Before, INS commissioners were simply largely unavailable to
persons like myself and the points of view we would take,'' he said. ''I think
the agency suffered for that and lost a good deal of credibility.'' He added,
''It is an agency that is very, very seductive in terms of drawing appointees
into its hard-nosed anti-immigrant approach. By reaching out early, I think Mr.
McNary was able to balance that.'' Leiden, the immigration attorney, also has
noted the change to cooperation from confrontation.  ''Since Mr. McNary has been
commissioner,'' he said, ''there is more an attitude that the INS is a servant
of the public, that it has a law-enforcement mission but also provides benefits
and adjudicates issues.  He's had a desire to hear from all sides of the public,
not just the pro-enforcement side.'' Haitian Immigration The agency's two roles,
service and enforcement, collided during the recent Haitian crisis. After the
overthrow of Jean-Bertrand Aristide, boatloads of Haitians tried to enter the
United States. Ultimately, the Bush administration was successful in stemming
the tide; the U.S. Supreme Court eventually will settle the case.  Still, the
INS screened in thousands of Haitians, and many experts in the field credit
McNary with bucking the White House and letting in 30,000 refugees, far more
than the administration preferred. In September, he waived regulations to allow
three Haitians infected with the AIDS virus to leave detention at Guantanamo,
Cuba, and get treatment at U.S. hospitals.  Such generosity grew out of the
asylum corps, a program McNary instituted.  It trained asylum officers to be
better informed about conditions in other countries so they were better able to
discern whether a refugee's case for entering the United States was credible.
''I was convinced that asylum adjudications were a specialty,'' McNary said,
''and they should not be just lumped in with all other examinations. You have to
know something about country conditions around the world, and you have to be
trained in eliciting information from people who are under strained
circumstances.  ''There was some concern with regard to Haitians that even
though they may have a well-founded fear of persecution, they wouldn't know what
to tell you to prove their case. So we started a procedure where we literally
would ask the same questions three times, but in different ways, to try to make
sure there was clear communication.  ''I said to the immigration rights people
that we're not going to be chumps,'' he said. ''If somebody is abusing the
process, if they're coming for a job or some other reason and they just see this
as a means of getting here, then they're going to be returned. If they have a
well-founded fear and if the facts indicate they have credible claim that they
might be in jeopardy, then they're going to be screened in.  ''The immigration
rights people thought everybody should be screened in, that there couldn't be
any body abusing the process. Some of the others felt we were screening in too
many and they were all really safe in Haiti and we should be sending everybody
back. It was our job to make that decision, and I think we did a good job making
it.'' Not All Good Reviews Not everyone has a such a glowing evaluation, either
of the Haiti episode or McNary's tenure in general. Even Leiden, the immigration
attorney who is part of the monthly think tank, said, ''I have a lot of
admiration for Mr.  McNary personally, but there are some deep problems there. I
don't want to give the false impression that I'm an unalloyed happy customer.''
Charles Kamasaki, vice president of the National Council of La Raza, an advocacy
group for Hispanic Americans, has his own concerns.  ''The one big failure we
see is the inability to substantially improve the so-called service functions of
the immigration service,'' Kamasaki said.  ''Everyone knows the INS is an
enforcement agency, but in naturalizing new citizens, providing quick service to
bring in relatives, processing immigration petitions - in these areas, we
haven't seen a lot of improvement.'' Jose Velez, national president of the
League of United Latin American Citizens, conceded that LULAC might have
misjudged McNary in its harsh opposition of his appointment. But he said the INS
still has problems giving immigrants the rights and respect they deserve.  Dan
Stein, executive director of the Federation for American Immigration Reform,
criticized the Bush administration's entire approach to immigration.  ''If you
enforce the law rigorously,'' he said, ''you invariably wind up with lots of
human interest stories of this particular person who winds up being confined
somewhere and separated from his family. To avoid this kind of publicity, you
just run them through the visa mill. To some extent, this has happened to
McNary.  ''In a few places, he has thrown down the gauntlet and taken a firm
position, but he has not been allowed to be the point man for the administration
on immigration at a time when people need a major discussion of immigration
policy.'' Weathering Storms McNary is used to such criticism, and he
acknowledged that not all of his goals for the INS have been met. But he says he
is proud to have brought some better management to the far-flung 18,000-person
agency.  He has weathered several uproars, including criticism from a general
counsel he says was trying to stab him in the back. Memos written by the
counsel, William Cook, scorned McNary as a ''press-release politician'' who had
surrounded himself with ''St. Louis cronies.'' But he has endured, and he talked
wistfully of wanting to complete the job of taming what he says is an ''agency
that grew faster than its ability to manage itself.'' McNary once compared the
INS with a ''big dirty-faced kid. Nobody had been willing to touch it.'' How is
that kid faring now?  ''I think we're starting to have a cleaner face. We're
even getting our hair combed.''

LOAD-DATE: October 12, 1993

LANGUAGE: English

GRAPHIC: Photo; PHOTO HEADSHOT Post-Dispatch photo ... Gene McNary, former St.
Louis County executive, is completing his third year as head of the Immigration
and Naturalization Service in Washington.

                  Copyright 1992 St. Louis Post-Dispatch, Inc.


                              140 of 308 DOCUMENTS

                       St. Louis Post-Dispatch (Missouri)

                 November 10, 1992, TUESDAY, FIVE STAR Edition

GERMANY URGED TO END DISCORD

BYLINE: Fred W. Lindecke Missouri Political Correspondent

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 9A

LENGTH: 610 words


St. Louisans with ties to Germany say that country should tighten immigration
laws to slow the flow of refugees and to deal with violent protests by neo-Nazi
and anarchist groups.  George Stemmler, founding director of the German American
Heritage Society here, said, ''It's obvious that Germany's liberal laws on
asylum have to be looked at because they are being inundated by more people than
they can handle.'' Stemmler, who recently returned from a tour of what used to
be communist East Germany, said the United States helped write the German
constitution after World War II ''and made it possible for just about anybody to
come into Germany.'' He said he was pleased to find that Chancellor Helmut
Kohl's government ''and all of the business people I talked to are taking steps
to alleviate the problem.'' He said he expected the next session of the
Bundestag (Germany's legislature) to debate the issue. ''Hopefully, some
compromise will be worked out,'' he said.  On Sunday, left-wing extremists
disrupted a government-supported rally in Berlin. About 350,000 people turned
out to protest violence, but 300 to 400 anarchists, throwing rocks and eggs,
caused German President Richard von Weizsaecker and Kohl to retreat under the
protection of police.  Anna Mayer Beck, honorary German consul in St. Louis,
said Monday that more than 500,000 people had entered Germany in the past two
years. She said that they were primarily from countries on Germany's eastern
border and that most of the refugees were in what was formerly East Germany.
Beck said united Germany had 80 million people in an area the size of Montana.
She said the immigrants competed with Germans for jobs and caused tax increases
to pay for supporting them. This produces tension, which the extremists try to
exploit, she said.  Besides the anarchists on the left, Germany has the neo-Nazi
''skinheads'' on the right, who want no immigration at all, Beck said.  ''When
this ugliness arises, too many people in the United States think of the
conditions leading to World War II,'' she said. But the current violence is not
generated by the same anti-Semitism of Nazi Germany, she said.  Manfred von
Hoesslin, a German citizen who is director of the Goethe Institute in St. Louis,
agreed. Although neo-Nazis have attacked Jewish institutions, ''There are
totally different roots,'' he said.  (Following appeared in 3* edition.).  The
neo-Nazis added the Jewish targets while carrying out their principal attack
against immigrants, von Hoesslin said. The Goethe Institute trains teachers of
German and sponsors cultural activities.  Van Hoesslin said that tightening
Germany's immigration laws would not work. ''It's impossible to stop that flow
of refugees,'' he said.  ''There's no Berlin Wall anymore. You can send them
away, and the next week they are back again.'' Robert A. Cohn, publisher of the
Jewish Light, said, ''Many of the skinheads are anti-Semitic,'' but he agreed
that foreign immigration ''is the principal and immediate focus of the
extremists.'' Cohn, who toured Germany last month, said the ''encouraging
difference'' between now and Nazi Germany was that the German government had
''vehemently denounced the violence and the overwhelming majority of Germans are
not in favor of the extremists.'' Josef Hammes, former mayor of Maplewood, who
came to St. Louis from Germany in 1951, said Germany could not deal with the
refugee problem alone; the refugees would have to be absorbed by all European
nations.  ''If they want to talk about a united Europe, they should take united
responsibility,'' Hammes said. ''But how they are going to do it, I don't
know.''

LOAD-DATE: October 12, 1993

LANGUAGE: English

                  Copyright 1992 St. Louis Post-Dispatch, Inc.


                              141 of 308 DOCUMENTS

                       St. Louis Post-Dispatch (Missouri)

                  March 18, 1993, THURSDAY, FIVE STAR Edition

JUDGE CLEARS WAY TO DEPORT CLERIC

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 11A

LENGTH: 465 words

DATELINE: NEWARK, N.J.


An extremist Muslim cleric who preaches at the same mosque where two suspects in
the World Trade Center bombing worship can be deported, an immigration judge has
ruled.

The cleric, Sheik Omar Abdel-Rahman, is a spiritual leader for some Islamic
fundamentalists in the United States and Egypt. He has called repeatedly for the
overthrow of the Egyptian government of Hosni Mubarak.

Two of Abdel-Rahman's followers have been charged in the bombing of the World
Trade Center, and authorities are investigating others with ties to the sheik
for possible involvement in the Feb. 26 blast that killed six people.

The ruling was made Tuesday by Immigration Judge Daniel Meisner, who held a
hearing Jan. 20 to determine if the Immigration and Naturalization Service could
expel the cleric. The decision was announced Wednesday.

Meisner is an employee of the immigration service. His role is to determine if
the agency followed its guidelines and federal rules in deciding to deport
someone.

Abdel-Rahman's lawyer, Barbara Nelson, said that she would appeal the ruling to
the Board of Immigration Appeals in Washington, which could take from six months
to a year. During that time Abdel-Rahman has the right to remain in the United
States.

If unsuccessful, appeals could then be made through the federal courts.  The
judge would decide if Abdel-Rahman could stay in the country during that
process, Nelson said.

The U.S. government is trying to deport Abdel-Rahman on the grounds that he
failed to disclose upon his re-entry in April 1991 that he was a polygamist and
that he had been convicted in Egypt of falsifying a check.

Both are grounds for exclusion from the United States, the INS said.

Abdel-Rahman was acquitted three other times of crimes in Egypt, including
sanctioning the assassination in 1981 of Egyptian President Anwar Sadat, before
the cleric left that country and settled in Jersey City.

When Abdel-Rahman's name began to emerge in the World Trade Center
investigation, the State Department said that he was in the country only because
of a series of clerical errors by U.S. officials.

In an interview Feb. 20 with Reuters, Abdel-Rahman said that if deported, he
would be willing to go back to Egypt, although he said he expected to be
imprisoned if he returned.

M.T. Mehdi, president of the American-Arab Relations Committee, called the court
action a witch hunt in which the United States was violating the sheik's First
Amendment rights and responding to pressure from Egypt.

"The sheik is sending cassettes to Egypt, but if those cassettes will overthrow
Mubarak's regime, it is because that regime is based on shallow foundations,"
Mehdi said.

"We should not suppress the First Amendment here to protect Mubarak there."

LOAD-DATE: September 29, 1993

LANGUAGE: English

GRAPHIC: PHOTO; Photo Headshot of (Sheik Omar) Abdel-Rahman

                  Copyright 1993 St. Louis Post-Dispatch, Inc.


                              142 of 308 DOCUMENTS

                       St. Louis Post-Dispatch (Missouri)

                   March 28, 1993, SUNDAY, FIVE STAR Edition

IMMIGRATION LAWS NEED MAJOR REFORM

BYLINE: Debra Saunders Copyright San Francisco Chronicle

SECTION: EDITORIAL; Pg. 3B

LENGTH: 535 words

DEBRA SAUNDERS COLUMN

DATELINE: SAN FRANCISCO


A recent "60 Minutes" segment illustrated the situation beautifully. The scene:
New York's JFK Airport, where each year 15,000 non-citizens arrive in America
without permission to enter. Without documentation, correspondent Lesley Stahl
wondered, "surely they're just put back on the plane and sent back where they
came from."

Wrong, she found out, as two men arrived at JFK from Pakistan. Their passports
were phony, but no problem; they asked for political asylum and were admitted
and given precious work permits pending review of their request for asylum.

Authorities were clueless as to the identity of the two men. No one knew if the
two men were truly political refugees. Or - as is most likely - economic
refugees. Or - as is less likely but nonetheless possible - terrorists or common
criminals.

Last year 117,000 aliens entered this country seeking political asylum, but only
11,000 cases are ajudicated each year, according to the Federation for American
Immigration Reform.

"60 Minutes" played the story as an issue of security. In the wake of the recent
shooting of two CIA personnel and the World Trade Center bombing, both allegedly
committed by immigrants admitted into the country through a liberal immigration
policy, it makes sense to question the system.

Mir Aimal Kansi, the prime suspect in the CIA shootings, remained here through
the asylum program. Mohammed Salemeh never returned to Jordan after his visa
expired; he and another immigrant indicted for the New York bombing were
followers of Sheik Omar Abdel-Rahman, who settled here despite allegations that
he was a polygamist and was convicted for falsifying a check, both of which
should have disqualified his entry.

But the episode of the two Pakistanis also raises a basic question about our
immigration laws. If their purpose is to limit the number of immigrants to
maintain the standard of living for those here, why aren't these laws enforced
better?

Call for tougher enforcement at the risk of being branded an immigrant-hater.
Nice people embrace all immigration. Only the stingy insists on enforcement of
these laws. And since a racist undercurrent lies beneath some criticism of the
system, the would-be reformer must distinguish himself from those who would
limit the entry of non-whites.

On reform's side is the issue of fairness. The current system isn't fair to
people who want to come here legally. It rewards people who come here illegally
by making it easier for phony asylum claimants to get work permits.

While it may be politically incorrect to cite the cost of immigration, Democrats
have begun to do just that. A few years ago, Rep. Elton Gallegly, R-Calif., was
the rare voice calling for stiffer immigration laws. Today he is joined by Rep.
Anthony Beilenson, D-Calif., in the call to increase the number of Border Patrol
agents and establish counterfeit-proof identification.

On Friday, President Bill Clinton will conduct a timber summit of sorts to
mediate between loggers and owl-lovers. The president should consider a summit
on immigration. Today's policy is default; it's called writing laws that few
enforce. Fraud pays. Immigration policy needs a makeover.

LOAD-DATE: September 29, 1993

LANGUAGE: English

                  Copyright 1993 St. Louis Post-Dispatch, Inc.


                              143 of 308 DOCUMENTS

                       St. Louis Post-Dispatch (Missouri)

                    May 30, 1993, SUNDAY, FIVE STAR Edition

LETTERS FROM THE PEOPLE

SECTION: EDITORIAL; Pg. 2B

LENGTH: 243 words


A Check On Deadbeats In 1986, the federal government enacted the Immigration
Reform and Control Act, which established verification of employment eligibility
for new employees.  All employers are required to inspect drivers licenses,
passports or Social Security cards to ensure new employees are authorized to
work in the United States. To enforce child-support orders by state courts, a
federal law could be passed that would establish a child support agency through
which state courts could order child support payments be made.  It would also
amend the Immigration Reform Act to require Social Security cards to be one of
the documents new employees must produce. Employers would report Social Security
numbers of all new employees either monthly or quarterly to the agency where
they would be maintained in a data base.  When a parent disappears or moves
across state lines to avoid payment of child support, the parent entitled to
receive payments could report it. The agency could immediately check the data
base to determine if the violator has accepted employment or flag the number.
The agency would have the authority to order garnishment of wages to enforce the
child support order.  Additionally, other welfare agencies would have to check
with the child support agency before benefits could be authorized. The child
support agency would pay for itself through savings in welfare payments and
benefits.  John Mennemeyer Jefferson City

LOAD-DATE: October 7, 1993

LANGUAGE: English

TYPE: LETTERS

                  Copyright 1993 St. Louis Post-Dispatch, Inc.


                              144 of 308 DOCUMENTS

                       St. Louis Post-Dispatch (Missouri)

                   July 24, 1993, SATURDAY, FIVE STAR Edition

LIVES ADRIFT

SECTION: EDITORIAL; Pg. 6B

LENGTH: 474 words


Nearly 300 Chinese passengers from smuggling ships intercepted off the coast of
Mexico have been returned to China against their will, with another 360 illegal
emigrants awaiting a similar fate. This conclusion to the sordid saga of three
smugglers' ships is distasteful, to say the least. The Chinese were en route to
the United States; many of them presumably were seeking political asylum. There
is good reason to believe, however, that at least some of the passengers, and
possibly many of them, were merely trying to find work in a country where they
could make much more money than they do at home.  Rules on how each category of
would-be immigrants should be treated must be clarified.  Nonetheless, was it
right that the Chinese be held as virtual prisoners by Mexico while the Mexican
and U.S. governments negotiated their fate?  Advocates of more liberal
immigration policies for the United States have been rightly disgusted by the
way in which the Clinton administration, in effect, got the Mexican government
to do its dirty work by sending the Chinese back where they came from.  What can
prevent such an event from being repeated? Desperate men, women and children
seeking better lives will certainly continue to throw themselves on the mercy of
officials and laws in a variety of relatively rich countries around the world.
As a recent U.N. report on refugees noted, the world is awash in people fleeing
hostile working conditions, famine, civil strife, oppressive governments and
substandard wages. An estimated 100 million people are crossing one or more
borders, often illegally, in hopes of getting a toehold on a better life for
themselves and their families.  Governments such as the United States cannot
accommodate every person who travels to its shores, by whatever means. Not
everyone who makes it to this country - whatever the hardships - is deserving of
immigrant status.Still, the United States and other magnets for refugees, such
as England and Germany, face major headaches in trying to define a policy for
admitting refugees that is both humane, as befits a democracy, and sensitive to
domestic politics and national security needs.  The spectacle of manacled
refugees being put on planes and returned to their native countries is an ugly
one for these times. It shouldn't become the symbol of the rejection by rich
countries of hard-working, talented, potential new citizens. A legal procedure
that is both fair and quick must be put into place in the United States and in
other democracies. Would-be refugees need to know that if they qualify under
fair rules of admission, they will be accepted. And they also need to know that
those rules will not be bent greatly, so they will not be tempted to flee under
unsafe, unfair conditions that may kill them or leave them indentured for many
years.

LOAD-DATE: October 11, 1993

LANGUAGE: English

TYPE: EDITORIAL

                  Copyright 1993 St. Louis Post-Dispatch, Inc.


                              145 of 308 DOCUMENTS

                       St. Louis Post-Dispatch (Missouri)

                  August 17, 1993, TUESDAY, FIVE STAR Edition

FEDERAL JUDGE DENIES U.S. ASYLUM FOR SHEIK; CLERIC CALLED DANGER TO NATION'S
SECURITY

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 3A

LENGTH: 661 words

DATELINE: WHITE PLAINS, N.Y.


A U.S. district judge refused Monday to grant political asylum to Sheik Omar
Abdel-Rahman, saying the federal government's deportation order for the Egyptian
cleric stands.  Abdel-Rahman has ties to many of those charged in the bombing of
the World Trade Center and the alleged plot to blow up other New York landmarks.
He had appealed the deportation order by the Immigration and Naturalization
Service.  Last month, the Board of Immigration Appeals in Washington upheld an
order by an immigration judge that Abdel-Rahman be expelled from the United
States.  In taking the case to the federal courts, attorneys for Abdel-Rahman
said their client had not been given a fair hearing.  But U.S. District Judge
Charles Brieant rejected virtually all the arguments presented by the cleric's
attorneys.  "This court concludes that there is no basis for disturbing the
Board of Immigration Appeal's or the immigration judge's determination that the
petitioner is not eligible for asylum or withholding of deportation," Brieant
said. He said also "that there are reasonable grounds for regarding him as a
danger to the security of the United States." The judge refused to free
Abdel-Rahman while he continues his appeals. He is being held at a federal
detention center in Otisville, N.Y., about 70 miles north of New York City.
Abdel-Rahman has ties to many of those charged in the Feb. 26 trade center
bombing, which killed six people and injured more than 1,000. Other followers
are accused of plotting to blow up the United Nations, the building that houses
the FBI in New York and two tunnels linking New York and New Jersey.
Investigators say they believe that Abdel-Rahman is the force driving the
alleged conspirators, although he has not been charged with wrongdoing in either
case.  Abdel-Rahman entered the United States in 1990 with a visa that the State
Department says was mistakenly issued by the U.S. Embassy in Sudan. At the time,
the cleric was on an immigration lookout list because he had been implicated in
the assassination of President Anwar Sadat in Egypt in 1981.  In addition,
immigration officials say the cleric can be deported because he failed to
disclose on his entry documents that he had three wives and lied about a
check-fraud conviction in Egypt.  An Egyptian man hijacked a KLM airliner in
Germany on Sunday and demanded Abdel-Rahman's release. But police arrested the
hijacker.  "Sheik Omar Abdel-Rahman did not sponsor the hijacking," said Michael
Warren, one of Abdel-Rahman's attorneys. "He does not sanction what the hijacker
did. It's something he knows nothing about." Warren said also that no legal
basis existed for having Abdel-Rahman deported.  "This (decision) is yet another
indication of how the political taint becomes an essential part of the judicial
process and thereby pollutes that process," he said.  Sudan Suspected In Plot
U.S. intelligence officials believe top government officials of Sudan were
involved in a plot to blow up the United Nations, FBI headquarters and two
tunnels in New York, ABC News reported Monday.  Citing intelligence sources, ABC
said federal agents, after monitoring the Sudanese Mission to the United Nations
for two months and from other evidence, believe Sudan's government was involved
in the plot.  The Islamic nation's operatives in New York City were two men
working for the Sudanese Mission to the world body, ABC said. It identified the
two as Siraj Yousif, the counselor to the Sudanese Mission, and Ahmed Mohamed,
the third secretary.  In a telephone interview from his New York home, Yousif
told The Associated Press that "everything mentioned by ABC News is absolutely
erroneous and untrue." In Washington, FBI spokesman John Collingwood had no
comment on the report.  The State Department also had no comment.  The report
said U.S. officials believe the men helped five other Sudanese residents of the
United States who were indicted in the bombing conspiracy.

LOAD-DATE: October 11, 1993

LANGUAGE: English

GRAPHIC: PHOTO; Photo Headshot of Sheik Omar Abdel-Rahman

                  Copyright 1993 St. Louis Post-Dispatch, Inc.


                              146 of 308 DOCUMENTS

                       St. Louis Post-Dispatch (Missouri)

                  January 2, 1994, SUNDAY, THREE STAR Edition

RAPE BECOMES ISSUE IN POLITICAL ASYLUM PETITIONS

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 11A

LENGTH: 547 words

DATELINE: MIAMI


Unable to find a pro-democracy activist, Haitian soldiers reportedly jailed his
fiancee in retaliation last summer - and then gang-raped her in prison.

The young activist escaped to Miami and has been granted political asylum, and
his fiancee has since managed to follow him to Miami.

But legal experts say the woman faces a much tougher challenge than her fiance
in convincing U.S. immigration officials that her rape - like torture or
beatings - constitutes political persecution and, therefore, is ground for
asylum.

Rape is commonplace in wars and repressive societies. But rape is still viewed
as a "private" act by most immigration officials, even when women are raped by
soldiers or officials, say lawyers who have represented women seeking political
asylum.

"The Haitian claims for asylum based on rape are routinely dismissed as personal
encounters that do not rise to the level of persecution," said Cheryl Little, a
lawyer with Florida Rural Legal Services.

While Canada recognizes gender-based political asylum claims and has even
granted asylum to women fleeing Arab countries, where defiant women sometimes
are stoned to death, the United States has no such legal precedent.

"There have been very few asylum decisions based on gender-based persecution,"
said Deborah Anker, the coordinator of the Harvard Immigration and Refugee
Program.

She said U.S. courts have ruled favorably in only one such case, in 1987.  In
that case, a U.S. District Court in California reversed a federal immigration
tribunal that had denied a woman's asylum petition based on her assertion that
an army sergeant in El Salvador had repeatedly raped her.

In May, the federal Board of Immigration Appeals reversed the decision of a
lower immigration judge. The judge had denied asylum to a Haitian woman who fled
to Florida and asserted that she had been raped and beaten in Haiti by soldiers
to punish her for taking part in a pro-democratic church group.

"It was a ground-breaking case because they recognized rape as a form of
persecution," Anker said.

LOAD-DATE: January 3, 1994

LANGUAGE: English

                  Copyright 1994 St. Louis Post-Dispatch, Inc.


                              147 of 308 DOCUMENTS

                       St. Louis Post-Dispatch (Missouri)

                    May 29, 1994, SUNDAY, THREE STAR Edition

IMMIGRATION OFFICERS FACE FLORIDA INFLUX

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 10D

LENGTH: 632 words

DATELINE: FORT LAUDERDALE, FLA.


Every day brings a shipload of problems to Uncle Sam's overburdened immigration
force in south Florida.

Even as officers continued sorting out the 411 Haitians who arrived off Lake
Worth last month, some officers had to be pulled away to handle more refugees,
from Key West and Key Largo to Manalapan. Small craft carrying Cubans or
Haitians continue to arrive almost daily.

Mike Sheehy, a Border Patrol spokesman, said: "We're getting all our agents and
staff tied up. We're having to rob Peter to pay Paul."

Little help is on the horizon.

Despite months spent drawing up a contingency plan called Operation Distant
Shore, the federal government is ill-prepared for a mass immigration emergency,
Florida's congressional delegation warns.

One fear is that a mass exodus from, say, Cuba, could trigger a similar
migration from other islands to take advantage of the confusion. And if U.S.
officials were to move agents from the Southwest to Florida to control a
Caribbean influx, that would open the border to migrants from Mexico.

The overall problem is money.

Daniel Stein, executive director of the conservative lobbying group Federation
for American Immigration Reform, said, "INS is really in a state of financial
crisis now. And all those emergency strike force plans are predicated on the
availability of funds."

The Immigration and Naturalization Service faces a budget deficit because it
overestimated revenues from fees paid by legal aliens, immigration service
spokesman Duke Austin said. The exact deficit is still being calculated. "It's
certainly in the multiples of millions of dollars."

The immigration service acknowledges that existing resources would not be nearly
enough to absorb a major immigration wave.

But some help is on the way to handle the most immediate problems. Ninety-nine
inspectors - some new hires, some pulled from other parts of the country - are
undergoing training in San Antonio, Texas, to help process Haitian arrivals.

The help comes at a time when the trickle of refugees is widening into a stream.
Haitians and Cubans known to have arrived this year have increased from 464 in
January to 1,277 in April. This month, through Tuesday, another 741 have landed
on Florida's doorstep.

Another 1,391 Haitians have been stopped at sea and returned to Port-au-Prince
this month - more than half the total picked up in all of last year.

Even those flows - far short of the tens of thousands a Mariel-type exodus could
bring - have strained the immigration service's resources.

Agency officials often do little more than jot down the names and address of
Cuban refugees before releasing them into the community.

Most Haitians are brought to the overcrowded Krome detention center in west Dade
County for screening, which can take hours or days. So many have arrived since
April that the immigration service had to put up tents and install portable
toilets on a soccer field.

The Border Patrol, the immigration agency's uniformed enforcers, has 56 agents
based in Pembroke Pines, Fla., as well as a few others elsewhere in Florida, to
cover the region that extends through Georgia and the Carolinas. In all, the
agency has 739 workers in its southeast region.

Florida's congressional delegation has been demanding action for years. The
delegation wants:

- A streamlined procedure to deputize thousands of local police in south Florida
on a moment's notice. The police then could act as federal agents and take
refugees to a federal immigration center.

- Immediate steps to establish a short-term immigration detention center, which
could be opened on a day's notice.

- Final establishment of a $ 35 million immigration emergency fund, which has
been authorized by Congress, but so far exists only on paper.

LOAD-DATE: May 30, 1994

LANGUAGE: English

                  Copyright 1994 St. Louis Post-Dispatch, Inc.


                              148 of 308 DOCUMENTS

                       St. Louis Post-Dispatch (Missouri)

                   June 16, 1994, THURSDAY, FIVE STAR Edition

NO IMMIGRATION REFORM 'TIL FALL, RENO SAYS

SECTION: WAR PAGE; Pg. 5C

LENGTH: 318 words

DATELINE: WASHINGTON


THE WHITE HOUSE does not plan to push for passage of an immigration reform bill
until after a national commission reports on the issue this fall, Attorney
General Janet Reno said Wednesday.

She testified before the Senate Judiciary Committee as several senators said
current policies were allowing a flood of immigrants to bankrupt their states.

The Immigration and Naturalization Service does have plans to increase the
Border Patrol force, remove criminal aliens and reform the process for granting
political asylum, she said.

By October 1996, the INS will add 1,010 agents to its Border Patrol force of
4,000, Reno said. She also said that the INS plans to deport 22,000 criminal
aliens this year, twice as many as it did last year.

Reno urged Congress to approve $ 300 million proposed in the pending crime bill
to pay for these initiatives.

She also said the administration was seeking $ 350 million in the budget for the
next fiscal year to help states pay for incarcerated aliens.

An estimated 3.8 million illegal immigrants are in the United States and that
number is increasing by 300,000 every year, Reno said.

Sen. Kay Bailey Hutchison, R-Texas, said, "Our schools, our hospitals, our
social services, our prisons are being overwhelmed by the federal government's
failure to control our borders. . . . The patience of the American people is
dissipating."

Texas plans to follow Florida, California and Arizona in suing the federal
government for reimbursement of immigration costs.

Sen. William V. Roth Jr., R-Del., said aliens account for one-fourth of the
federal prison population.

Sen. Richard H. Bryan, D-Nev., said more than 150,000 aliens sought political
asylum last year up from only 500 in 1980.

Sen. Harry Reid, D-Nev., said, "Declarations of asylum have become the most
expedient way of gaining entry by corner-cutters who seek to cheat the system."

LOAD-DATE: June 17, 1994

LANGUAGE: English

                  Copyright 1994 St. Louis Post-Dispatch, Inc.


                              149 of 308 DOCUMENTS

                       St. Louis Post-Dispatch (Missouri)

                 August 31, 1994, WEDNESDAY, FIVE STAR Edition

DEATHS ELSEWHERE

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 4D

LENGTH: 154 words


ARIEL DA SILVA, 36, the first person granted asylum by a U.S. immigration
officer because of sexual orientation, has died of AIDS in Los Angeles.

The case of Mr. Da Silva prompted Attorney General Janet Reno to declare that
persecution based on sexual orientation is grounds for political asylum, a
principle now binding in all immigration cases. Mr. Da Silva said he was afraid
he would be persecuted in his native Mexico because he was a homosexual.

He died last week in a Los Angeles hospital, five months after the favorable
ruling by an immigration hearing officer, attorney Marc Van Der Hout said
Monday.

Mr. Da Silva, who entered the United States in the 1980s, was diagnosed with the
AIDS virus in November 1991, Van Der Hout said. He had been working in health
education and AIDS prevention in San Francisco since 1987. Mr. Da Silva had
spoken publicly about his case under a pseudonym, Jose Garcia.

LOAD-DATE: September 1, 1994

LANGUAGE: English

TYPE: OBITUARY

                  Copyright 1994 St. Louis Post-Dispatch, Inc.


                              150 of 308 DOCUMENTS

                       St. Louis Post-Dispatch (Missouri)

                 November 22, 1994, Tuesday, FIVE STAR Edition

GOP SEEKS TO DENY BENEFITS TO SOME LEGAL IMMIGRANTS

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 9A

LENGTH: 788 words

DATELINE: WASHINGTON


With anti-immigrant sentiment sweeping parts of the country, Republicans are
moving to deny welfare benefits to most legal immigrants, many of them the
elderly parents of U.S. citizens.

The restrictions, which would save $ 22 billion over five years, are part of a
welfare overhaul in the GOP's "Contract with America." House Republican
lawmakers have promised votes on welfare reform and nine other bills in the
contract early next year.

One of the least-noticed provisions of the GOP plan is its ban on government
services and benefits to most legal immigrants. Refugees and legal residents
over the age of 75 who have been in the country for at least five years are the
exceptions.

Legal immigrants would be barred from 60 health, education, job training,
nutrition, housing, cash and social service programs - from school lunches and
foster care to rental and energy assistance.

Some of the biggest savings, however, would come from kicking legal immigrants
off Medicaid, except for emergency health care and Supplemental Security Income,
which provides monthly checks of $ 446 to the elderly and disabled.

The number of immigrants on SSI has grown sharply in recent years, to over
700,000 today from 127,900 in December 1982, and they now account for 12 percent
of all recipients on the rolls.

A study by the Social Security Administration found that most immigrants on the
SSI roles, as of June 1991, were of Mexican origin, followed by people from
Cuba, the Philippines, the Soviet Union, China, Vietnam, South Korea, Laos,
Cambodia and the Dominican Republic.

Many of these immigrants were brought to the United States by children or other
relatives who promised to support them, but they eventually wound up collecting
public benefits.

President Bill Clinton's own welfare reform plan sought to put some restrictions
on the use of SSI by elderly immigrants whose relatives had the means to support
them. A handful of moderate Democrats went even further earlier this year and
embraced the GOP's near-total ban on welfare to legal immigrants.

Now, after a campaign season in which public concerns about immigration were
used to political advantage and California voters endorsed Proposition 187 - an
initiative to deny public benefits to illegal aliens - the issue is sure to be a
top item in the Republican-controlled Congress.

Rep. Rick Santorum, R-Pa., who wrote the GOP welfare bill with a ban on welfare
to legal immigrants, said that Congress would be looking for ways to finance new
work programs for parents on welfare, and that immigrants who got benefits were
a likely target.

"People want to see something dramatic happen on welfare, some tough work
requirements, and that costs money," said Santorum, who was elected to the
Senate. "We need a funding mechanism, and (benefits for immigrants) is one of
the ways to go about doing it, and it already has bipartisan support."

Robert Rector, a welfare expert with the conservative Heritage Foundation, said
changes were also necessary because elderly immigrants were an increasing drain
on the U.S. Treasury.

Unless the current system is reformed, taxpayers will be spending $ 35 billion a
year providing health and welfare benefits to elderly immigrants "who have never
contributed to our society," Rector said.

"There's a growing recognition that the federal welfare system cannot serve as a
deluxe retirement system for elderly people from the Third World," Rector said.

Adds Dan Stein, executive director of the Federation for American Immigration
Reform, an advocacy group that favors stricter limits on immigration: "The
political impetus for cutting immigrants off welfare just got a turbo-charged
fuel injection with extra STP gas added. . . . People who come here as guests
shouldn't cost taxpayers a dime."

But immigrant rights advocates say that these immigrants and their relatives
have paid taxes and played by the rules, and that once the public understands
that the House GOP has targeted legal immigrants - and not people here illegally
- support for the plan could evaporate quickly.

"Obviously, the climate is much uglier when it comes to providing benefits to
anyone, but it's also true that there are people in the Republican Party who are
uncomfortable drawing unnecessary distinctions between U.S. citizens and legal
residents," said Cecilia Munoz, a senior immigration policy analyst at the
National Council of La Raza, a civil rights advocacy group.

Nevertheless, the debate over immigration could further isolate legal immigrants
and refugees from the mainstream of society, said Hiram Ruiz, policy analyst for
the U.S. Committee for Refugees, an advocacy and information group in
Washington.

LOAD-DATE: February 28, 1995

LANGUAGE: English

                  Copyright 1994 St. Louis Post-Dispatch, Inc.


                              151 of 308 DOCUMENTS

                       St. Louis Post-Dispatch (Missouri)

                    July 9, 1995, Sunday, THREE STAR Edition

VOLUNTEERS FLOCK TO CALIFORNIA TO BATTLE INITIATIVES

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 10D

LENGTH: 452 words

DATELINE: LOS ANGELES


Taking a page from the historic Mississippi Freedom Summer of 1964, young
volunteers from across the country are descending on California to battle what
they view as reactionary ballot initiatives against immigrant rights and
affirmative action.

The California Summer project, modeled after the volunteer campaign that became
a milestone for the civil rights movement in the South three decades ago, has
already brought more than 100 volunteer lawyers, law students and others to the
Golden State. They have come for a "revival of the spirit of '64," said James
Lafferty, a Mississippi Freedom Summer veteran who is now executive director of
the Los Angeles office of the National Lawyers Guild, which is sponsoring the
project.

"This has been reassuring to me, on a personal, human level," Lafferty, 57,
said. "It's like being transported back to a very special part of my life."

The main focus of the new campaign is the "xenophobic consequences" of recent
ballot initiatives that have undermined civil rights in California, according to
Libby Cooper, a human rights lawyer who has worked in Latin America, the Middle
East and Africa. She came here from Philadelphia to direct the project.

She was referring to last year's overwhelming voter approval of Proposition 187,
which would have curtailed social services for illegal immigrants had it not
been temporarily blocked by a court order. Another proposed ballot initiative,
to be put to the voters next year, would repeal affirmative action programs not
already dismantled by Gov. Pete Wilson.

Wilson's press secretary, Sean Walsh, said it was a "tremendous reach - an
oxymoron, to put it mildly," to equate California with Mississippi in the 1960s.
"It flies in the face of what Martin Luther King Jr. and the Mississippi Summer
were about, which was fundamental fairness," Walsh said. "Is it fair to have to
provide costly services for illegal immigrants at the expense of others, and is
it fair to have to hire people from one group at the expense of qualified people
from another?"

More volunteers are arriving daily to help immigrants register to vote, to
organize day laborers and street vendors and to help run naturalization
workshops, Cooper said. Some volunteers initially learned about the project on
the Internet, she said.

The project also is considering launching a counter-ballot initiative to
preserve racial and gender preference in hiring, university admissions and the
awarding of state contracts. Although such a campaign would be costly and
time-consuming - 615,000 petition signatures would have to be collected to get
it on the ballot - Cooper said it would get more people involved in civil rights
in California.

LOAD-DATE: July 10, 1995

LANGUAGE: English

                  Copyright 1995 St. Louis Post-Dispatch, Inc.


                              152 of 308 DOCUMENTS

                       St. Louis Post-Dispatch (Missouri)

                  September 4, 1992, FRIDAY, FIVE STAR Edition

HAITIANS MUST OBEY IMMIGRATION LAWS

SECTION: EDITORIAL; Pg. 2C

LENGTH: 1449 words


It saddens me to hear people talk of the United States' inhumanity to the
Haitian people. I have empathy for them but criticize their actions.  In the
1920s, my sister, my parents and I suffered the same indignities and dangers,
but applied for admittance to the United States and abided by the quota rules.
My father came to the States a year before my mother, sister and I could come.
My dad was a hated Black and Tan soldier of the British empire, my mother a Sein
Feiner, but they met, fell in love and married. So here we were, English
Catholics in the north of Ireland. Bo th sides hated us; our very existence was
a threat to their way of thinking.  They were particularly incensed at my
mother; in their eyes she was a traitor. We had to get out of Ireland, but we
obeyed the rules and applied for entrance to the great American States.  I do
not think the Haitians' plight is any more dire than ours was in the '20s. I
believe that there are ways of doing things, and obeying the law is one of them.
Hubert F. Cooper Bonne Terre, Mo.  The 'C' Word In answer to the Aug. 22 letter
from Millie and Lee Johanningmeier - if being a conservative stands for
commitment, Christianity and cleaning out Congress, regardless of party, label
me C and Republican.  The United States has a decent, caring president in
office, and that bothers most of the media and liberals. Just ask yourself: ''Am
I worse off now then four years ago?'' And vote accordingly.  I am a senior
citizen and have a large family. I don't know any of them who can truthfully say
they are worse off now. I am older than 70 and have never been called in a poll
about anything. Most polls are like the weatherman - wrong most of the time.
Finally, on the abortion issue, I don't care what a woman decides to do with her
body. I don't want my money paying for it.  If I commit suicide, the government
will not pay for my funeral.  Marie Johanningmeier Greendale Frazier's Epitaph
Vincent Frazier's name lept out at me from an Aug. 24 Metro section article
concerning an overgrown, abandoned cemetery in Black Jack and Frazier's lack of
a headstone. It instantly carried me back 60 years, to when I was 7 years old.
Could this be the old gentleman who worked for Papa in the early 1930s? Rapidly
reading the article, I concluded it indeed was! Papa mentioned how Frazier had
been buried in an old small cemetery in Black Jack reserved especially for
colored folk.  Frazier, a hard worker who didn't want to take a chance of losing
his precious $2 a day job, faithfully brought his wages home to his wife Mattie
and his children.  When Frazier's frame house mysteriously burned down, Papa
helped him rebuild - this time of brick.  Frazier always wore a faded,
sweat-stained corduroy hunting cap over his grey hair and carried a dollar
pocket watch, that only had an hour hand. He explained it was given to him, and
besides the hour hand was all he needed to tell dinner time (noon).  I asked why
he never ate his sandwich with Papa's other employees. He explained they didn't
want to eat with a Negro, but that was all right with him.  Being 7 years old, I
tried to convince him he was imagining the discrimination. All he said was,
''God bless you, when you get older you will change.'' The last time I saw him
was when I returned from World War II. His beat-up old Chevy was at the end of
New Halls Ferry Road.  If Papa had known Frazier had no headstone, he surely
would have provided one for him. He went where the good people go. So did Papa,
but that's another story.  Joseph Desloge Jr.  Florissant The Benefit Cycle Some
people seem to think everyone is unemployed in this country. V. Doris Conrad
writes in an Aug. 24 letter that a $5,000 tax credit and a $500 personal income
tax deduction would be of no benefit as people unemployed couldn't afford to buy
a house or earn enough for the exemption.  There are some 7.5 million
unemployed, less than the 8.5 million unemployed in 1980. However, there are
some 150 million employed people.  Many employed young people could purchase a
first home with the $5,000 credit. Coupled with the increase of a $500 personal
tax credit, their purchasing power would be increased.  With a new home comes
the purchase of furniture, appliances, drapes, tools - a host of items. This
stimulates demand and production of these products, which creates jobs. This, of
course, puts people back to work, allowing them to buy a new home, new products,
etc.  So you see, it's a cycle that, once started, benefits all.  Ray Lambert
St. Charles Salute To Peach I'm writing on the day that George Peach submitted
his resignation. For those of us who know him, there has never been a sadder
time.  He was a great prosecutor, and he is a good and decent man. I am grateful
for the pleasure of his company.  So, a salute to Peach and those who love him!
There are many. Hail and farewell.  Robert L. Garrison Assistant U.S. Attorney
Fairview Heights Signals Of Distress In Roger Signor's Aug. 23 article about the
rise in teen suicide, he and the experts he quoted avoided two crucial questions
on the subject. First, why do our precious teen-agers feel such self-hatred and
lack of hope that they are increasingly attempting and sometimes succeeding at
killing themselves?  Second, why do the parents of these children so often
ignore the signals of distress that teens exhibit?  Parenting is no easy task in
today's complex society. But people who make the choice to become parents must
begin to take responsibility for the very re al needs of their children. Parents
must take the initiative in helping their teens navigate the confusing waters of
our culture.  Most of all, parents must pay close attention to their children:
listening to, and expressing concern and empathy for their kids' difficulties.
Denying children's need for active emotional support is indeed a form of abuse.
I believe the temptation to minimize and trivialize the pain of children and
adolescents is great. We, as a society, do not want to recognize the
psychological impact of the problems we ourselves have created.  Parents do not
want to accept responsibility for the failure of parenting techniques that have
been passed down from generation to generation. But we must begin to try - there
is so much at stake.  Lucia Miller St. Louis Ask The Lawyer?  The Aug. 12
editorial, ''For Order In The Court,'' advises voters to heed the advice soon to
be published by The Missouri Bar concerning a poll of its members about
incumbent judges who are up for re-election in the coming general election.
Inasmuch as these lawyers are participating members of the court system, it is a
little like asking the fox guarding the chicken house about the safety of the
chickens. The last time I looked, the credibility of lawyers was around the
level of used car salesmen and members of Congress.  The problems of the
judicial system, long waiting periods before trial (sometimes years), catering
to the whims of lawyers, numerous continuations, special privileges to the
wealthy, mistrials and dismissal of charges because of persnickety clerical
mistakes and faulty decisions have the public disgusted and mad.  It does not
take a great deal of intelligence to see why the no vote has increased in the
past several elections.  If in the future, as former Sen. Thomas Eagleton fears,
some good judges are washed away in the cleansing, so be it. It's a small price
to pay for delivering the message: Shape up or ship out.  William A. Kenley
Florissant Fiction And Fact Strange, isn't it, how the Bush-Quayle team insists
on viewing life in terms of TV fictional characters. If I understand President
Bush correctly, he sees ''The Waltons'' as the ideal American family and wants
to return us to that model. I suggest he's already succeeded in realizing that
vision.  Millions of formerly productive citizens now fully understand the
economic deprivation and despair of 60 years ago - the era of ''The Waltons.''
So history has, indeed, turned over on itself. But isn't that carrying nostalgia
a little bit too far?  Fred Ross Wood River Food For Thought As a footnote to
the recent article about Summit Productions Inc., the food catering company for
the PGA Tournament at Bellerive Country Club, I would like the St. Louis area
public to know that all surplus food was donated each day to Operation Food
Search Inc. for immediate distribution to local food pantries.  Our heartfelt
thanks to the generosity of the members of Bellerive and their catering company.
They have set a noble example for similar and future events to be held in our
area.  Robert A. Mueller Chairman Operation Food Search Inc.  Olivette

LOAD-DATE: October 12, 1993

LANGUAGE: English

                  Copyright 1992 St. Louis Post-Dispatch, Inc.


                              153 of 308 DOCUMENTS

                       St. Louis Post-Dispatch (Missouri)

                  April 27, 1994, WEDNESDAY, FIVE STAR Edition

CANADA ORDERS AREA MAN DEPORTED; HE FLED FRAUD CHARGE OVER TENTS FOR MILITARY

BYLINE: Tim Bryant Of the Post-Dispatch Staff

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 1A

LENGTH: 712 words

DATELINE: VANCOUVER, BRITISH COLUMBIA


Steve Schrang says he doesn't want to return to St. Louis because he's afraid of
the Defense Department.

He might have good reason to be concerned.

A federal indictment accuses him of producing 40,000 pieces of defective fabric
used in military field hospital tents in Operation Desert Storm and of
falsifying the results of tests on the fabric. The government alleges that,
among other problems, the fabric caught fire too easily. Schrang, a fugitive
from St. Louis, disappeared 18 months ago.

On Tuesday, a Canadian immigration judge ordered that Schrang be deported over
federal charges in St. Louis that he defrauded the U.S. Defense Department.

Schrang is seeking political asylum, contending that he and his family are in
danger from Defense Department authorities. He provided no details.

Schrang, formerly of Golden Eagle, Ill., will be allowed to remain in Canada
until his request for political asylum is resolved.

The all-day deportation hearing gave John Lake, a Defense Department
investigator from St. Louis, his first look at Schrang since September 1992.
That was when Schrang went before a federal grand jury in St. Louis.

Schrang, 35, formerly headed Neese Coated Fabrics in St. Louis. The federal
indictment returned in October accuses him of fraud and conspiracy in falsifying
test results on a Defense Department contract and of abandoning hazardous waste
at Neese's plant on Hadley Street, just north of downtown. The company closed in
1990.

Schrang vanished in October 1992, shortly after the EPA showed up to clean out
his business. City officials condemned the Neese building in 1991 after two
fires damaged the brick structure. Schrang isn't blamed for the fires.

Lake heads the investigation of Schrang, which began in 1990. Even though
Schrang remains out of his grasp, Lake said he was pleased with the deportation
order. "It establishes the fact that Mr. Schrang was deeply involved in the
operation of his company," Lake said.

If Schrang returned to the United States and was found guilty, he could get as
much as 25 years in prison and fines totaling $ 1.25 million. All things
considered, Schrang prefers remaining in Canada.

Since October 1992, he and his family have lived in Chemainus, British Columbia,
a coastal town nearly 2 1/2 hours by ferry and car from Vancouver.

Steve Schrang was arrested Feb. 28 in Canada. Officials ran him to ground when
he tried to buy something on credit. He was using his wife's maiden name while
living in Chemainus. He remains free on $ 30,000 bond.

In granting the deportation order, immigration Judge Linda Mackie ruled that the
fraud and conspiracy charges against Schrang in the United States also would be
crimes if committed in Canada.

Mackie denied the request by Schrang's attorney to exclude Lake and a reporter
from the hearing. The lawyer, Karen O'Connor Coulter, argued that no one other
than the judge should hear anything about Schrang's request for political
asylum.

"Mr. Schrang has grave concerns about reprisals against his family," Coulter
said.

John Gardner, a Canadian immigration official, told Mackie he had no plan to
present evidence of Schrang's request for asylum.

Schrang's wife, Diane Schrang, did not attend the hearing. Coulter said Diane
Schrang, 34, was about to give birth.

Gardner concentrated on the part of the indictment that accuses Steve Schrang of
supplying phony or fraudulent results of tests done by Neese Coated Fabrics on
fabric used by a company in Kentucky to make tents for the Defense Department.

Coulter admitted that Schrang was under indictment in St. Louis and that the
fabric's value had been $ 2.16 million.

Gardner noted that Canadian immigration officials considered Schrang's
deportation case and his request for asylum as separate matters in "watertight
compartments." Trial of the asylum request was set for late September, but
officials said they would ask for an earlier hearing.

Federal authorities in St. Louis have issued two arrest warrants for Schrang.
One is a result of the indictment; the other alleges he failed to appear before
the federal grand jury in October 1992.

Diane Schrang also is wanted in the United States on the charge she failed to
appear before the grand jury.

LOAD-DATE: April 28, 1994

LANGUAGE: English

GRAPHIC: PHOTO; Color photo by Rick Ernst/Canadian Press - Steve Schrang talks
Tuesday with his attorney, Karen O'Connor Coulter, during a break in his
deportation hearing in Vancouver, British Columbia.

                  Copyright 1994 St. Louis Post-Dispatch, Inc.


                              154 of 308 DOCUMENTS

                       St. Louis Post-Dispatch (Missouri)

                 December 24, 1992, THURSDAY, FIVE STAR Edition

SMUGGLING OF CHINESE IS PROBED; MUTINY THREAT SPURS CALL TO COAST GUARD

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 10A

LENGTH: 581 words

DATELINE: SAN FRANCISCO


U.S. Coast Guard and immigration officials were scrambling Wednesday to unravel
an international smuggling scheme that left 180 would-be immigrants from China
huddled in misery in the hull of a small ship a few miles out from the Golden
Gate Bridge.  The 165-foot trawler Manyoshi Maru was intercepted by a Coast
Guard cutter Monday after the crew put out a distress call, alleging that the
ship's suffering passengers threatened mutiny.  Escorted to the Coast Guard
station on Yerba Buena Island in San Francisco Bay, the ship was found packed
with an illegal human cargo amid squalid conditions.  It was "shoulder to
shoulder," Xiao Qi-Jin, 16, recalled. "It was hard to walk, even. A lot of
people got seasick and vomited all over us." At sea for nearly seven weeks, the
16 female and 164 male passengers - including four teen-age boys - had neither
beds nor bathrooms. They had run out of water and what food was left sloshed
around with the garbage that covered the deck of their single, communal
compartment.  "It's abominable," Coast Guard Petty Officer Gary Openshaw said
Wednesday.  "They're living in their own filth. There are vomit, urine and
excrement strewn through the decks." Some passengers were weak from dehydration
but none was believed to be seriously ill, said a Coast Guard spokesman, Gene
Maestas. They were given water and fed rice and oatmeal as U.S. Immigration and
Naturalization Service officials tried to figure out what to do with them. Other
officials, meanwhile, began grilling the ship's captain and eight-member crew in
hope of weaving together the diverse threads of the smuggling operation.  That
may not be easy. The ship with the Chinese cargo has a Japanese name, a Honduran
registry, a Taiwanese owner and an Indonesian crew.  David Ilchert, district
director for immigration, said the case appeared to be typical of a new growth
industry: human smuggling by Chinese organized crime syndicates.  Most of the
smuggling is believed to originate in the "enterprise zones" of China's southern
provinces, where industrious residents have been able to accumulate substantial
savings. When the would-be immigrants cannot afford the full cost, they often
are given passage and then required to work off their debts as indentured
servants in sweatshops in the United States, sources say.  Ilchert said the
captain, who speaks broken English, told investigators that the ship was
supposed to be met off the coast by a smaller vessel that was to have shuttled
the passengers ashore. But that boat never showed up and the passengers grew
rebellious, prompting the frightened crew to call the Coast Guard for help.  How
the passengers' grueling ordeal will end remains to be seen. So far, according
to Ilchert, none has asked for asylum. It is assumed that they will, and once
they do, it could take years for their cases to be processed through the courts.
Immigration-rights lawyers pressed Wednesday for the release of the passengers,
who have been incarcerated by immigration officials.  But Ilchert said the
passengers had no legal basis for being admitted into the country. In an
interview, he added that a federal investigation was under way to determine what
charges should be filed against the ship's nine-member crew.  "Everyone we
talked to said they were not fleeing persecution, but to get a better job," he
said. He also thinks that the passengers had relatives in the United States who
paid to have them smuggled into the country.

LOAD-DATE: October 12, 1993

LANGUAGE: English

GRAPHIC: PHOTO; Color Photo By AP - Chinese refugees aboard their ship Tuesday
awaiting a U.S. immigration agent at Yerba Buena Island in San Francisco.

                  Copyright 1992 St. Louis Post-Dispatch, Inc.


                              155 of 308 DOCUMENTS

                       St. Louis Post-Dispatch (Missouri)

                 June 19, 1995, Monday, FIVE STAR LIFT Edition

POLICE STORM DETENTION CENTER, FREE GUARDS HELD BY IMMIGRANTS

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 8B

LENGTH: 229 words

DATELINE: ELIZABETH, N.J.


About 300 detainees at a detention center for immigrants awaiting deportation
hearings took two guards hostage early Sunday and held them until police stormed
the building nearly six hours later.

A third guard hid in a ceiling until police rescued him.

No one was seriously injured in the fracas at the Esmor Immigration Detention
Center, Union County prosecutor Michael Lapolla said. No charges were filed.

The guards were not armed. Some of the detainees had metal cutlery from the
center's cafeteria, but it was not clear whether they used them as weapons.
Police subdued the detainees with pepper spray.

The center is used to detain those who show up at airports with fake immigration
documents or false claims of citizenship. At the time of the uprising, the
center was holding 304 people of many nationalities, said Don Mueller, spokesman
for the Immigration and Naturalization Service in Washington.

The privately run center has been criticized recently. Former detainees have
complained of blaring televisions and bright lights kept on almost all night,
spoiled food, and guards pushing them around and trying to pick fights. A
visiting lawyer reported that guards shouted racial epithets, and she said she
saw detainees who had apparently been beaten.

The one-story converted warehouse opened in August in Elizabeth, which is next
to Newark.

LOAD-DATE: June 20, 1995

LANGUAGE: English

                  Copyright 1995 St. Louis Post-Dispatch, Inc.


                              156 of 308 DOCUMENTS

                       St. Louis Post-Dispatch (Missouri)

                  July 22, 1995, Saturday, THREE STAR Edition

RIOT COSTS FIRM CONTRACT TO RUN IMMIGRANT CENTER

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 4A

LENGTH: 448 words

DATELINE: WASHINGTON


The private operator of a New Jersey immigration detention center where inmates
rioted last month will lose its contract to run the site. Investigators found
that the center's guards were abusing detainees and stealing from them.

The announcement Friday by the Immigration and Naturalization Service
accompanied its report criticizing the company, Esmor Corp., for failing to
provide information about its operations to the agency's Newark district office.

The report also faulted the local immigration service office for failing to
oversee closely Esmor's operation of the 300-bed center in Elizabeth, N.J.

The most serious charges of guard abuse have been forwarded to the FBI for
possible civil rights violations, the report said.

Immigration service Commissioner Doris Meissner said the agency would not renew
the option year of its five-year, $ 8 million contract with Esmor to run the
Elizabeth site when it comes up in August.

She said the agency would continue to use private contractors elsewhere,
including Esmor.

"As soon as this disturbance occurred, we asked all our district directors to
review all contracts," Meissner said.

"We have not seen any problems elsewhere that approximate the problems in
Elizabeth," she said.

Complaints from inmates, their attorneys and lawmakers had led the Immigration
and Naturalization Service to investigate conditions at the converted warehouse
in Elizabeth just before detainees rioted June 18.

Many of the center's 315 detainees overpowered guards, destroyed furniture and
broke windows at the New Jersey center before police restored order after 4 1/2
hours.

About 15 minor injuries were reported. Guards abandoned the center and refused
to return.

The report said Esmor had failed to provide clean clothing, appropriate footwear
and undergarments twice a week, failed to write sufficient log reports and left
posts abandoned.

Investigators also said Esmor lacked sufficient staff and tried to cover the
shortfall with large amounts of overtime.

High turnover rates, in part due to low salaries, resulted in many guards being
poorly qualified and inadequately trained, the report said.

James F. Slattery, Esmor's president and chief executive officer, said in a
release that the company was "deeply disturbed and appalled" by the reported
conduct.

"This form of behavior will not be tolerated," Slattery said.

"Whatever changes must be put in place to prevent a recurrence of these
conditions at Elizabeth will be initiated immediately. Along with other issues,
more advanced training of guards and better supervision will be the company's
highest priority."

Esmor is based in Melville, N.Y.

LOAD-DATE: July 24, 1995

LANGUAGE: English

                  Copyright 1995 St. Louis Post-Dispatch, Inc.


                              157 of 308 DOCUMENTS

                       St. Louis Post-Dispatch (Missouri)

                    July 2, 1995, Sunday, THREE STAR Edition

CALIFORNIA GROWERS PUSH GUEST WORKER PROGRAM; ILLEGAL IMMIGRANTS WOULD INCREASE,
CRITICS SAY

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 11A

LENGTH: 519 words

DATELINE: WASHINGTON


California growers are urging Congress to pass a new temporary guest worker
program that critics say would lead to a further influx of unlawful migrants.

The drive for a guest worker program comes 30 years after the end of the
infamous "bracero" program that brought hundreds of thousands of workers from
Mexico, many of whom ended up living in degrading conditions seared into the
nation's memory in Edward R. Murrow's CBS documentary "Harvest of Shame."

But now, virtually all major growers groups in California are backing a program
that would allow them to bring workers legally from Mexico and elsewhere to work
temporarily in the fields.

"This is on our minds 24 hours a day, every day," said George Cunha, vice
president of the Nisei Farmers League in Fresno, representing 1,000 family
farmers in the San Joaquin Valley. "We need to have a mechanism to allow legal
aliens to come into the U.S. after we have exhausted the means to get domestic
workers into the industry."

Growers' efforts got a big boost Wednesday when a special panel on immigration
set up by House Speaker Newt Gingrich endorsed the idea. Rep. Elton Gallegly,
R-Calif., the panel's chairman, said he planned to introduce legislation on the
subject later this summer.

But the growers' drive is likely to open up one of the most divisive debates in
the immigration arena.

Barbara Jordan, chairwoman of the Commission of Immigration Reform, who has
forged agreement with Republicans on almost every other issue, said last week
that introducing a guest worker program would be a "grievous mistake."

President Bill Clinton also has issued a statement condemning it. "When these
programs were tried in the past, many temporary guest workers stayed permanently
- and illegally - in this country," he said.

The growers' push emerges from a frank admission that a large part of their work
force - 50 percent or more - consists of illegal immigrants who have gained
employment using counterfeit documents.

Growers admit that they now have a surplus of labor, brought on both by the
devaluation of the peso and the devastating rains this spring that eliminated
much farm work. But they fear that, if the increased controls at the U.S.-Mexico
border succeed, they could be stranded without enough workers.

"If you really start cracking down on the border and seizing illegal documents,
you will see more shortages in the fields," said Sharon Hughes of the National
Council of Agricultural Employers. The council represents 70 grower groups in
Washington and has taken the lead in promoting the guest worker proposal on
Capitol Hill.

Hughes said attracting domestic workers to do the back-breaking work in
California's fields was impossible. But Rep. Howard Berman, D-Calif., the most
vociferous opponent of guest worker programs, said growers have become
"addicted" to foreign workers.

"They want to rely on foreign workers because they are the most docile and
compliant group of workers they can get," Berman said. "The thing that dries up
the supply of domestic labor is low wages and miserable working conditions."

LOAD-DATE: July 3, 1995

LANGUAGE: English

                  Copyright 1995 St. Louis Post-Dispatch, Inc.


                              158 of 308 DOCUMENTS

                       St. Louis Post-Dispatch (Missouri)

                  May 31, 1996, Friday, FIVE STAR LIFT Edition

ASIAN-AMERICAN GROUP PUTS SPOTLIGHT ON IMMIGRANT WORKERS

BYLINE: Philip Dine

SECTION: BUSINESS; Pg. 1C

LENGTH: 664 words

PHILIP DINE ON LABOR COLUMN


Given the ethnic and racial cleavages of recent years, the timing of the
creation of the Asian Pacific American Labor Alliance was intriguing.

APALA was formed just before the Los Angeles riots of 1992. Its first official
action: A show of solidarity with African-Americans angered by the Rodney King
verdict.

Asian-American workers marched on the Department of Justice in Washington to
protest the jury decision favoring officers who beat King - the same verdict
that was about to drive many blacks into the streets and some into shops owned
by Asian-American merchants.

Surprising, maybe. But trying to bridge divisions among minorities and
immigrants is a key for unions, which need to unify workers around common goals
and prevent others from exploiting divisions.

That's particularly the case when, as in recent years, labor is struggling to
remain a credible force. The current influx of immigrants into the labor force
makes reaching out an even greater imperative.

The Asian Pacific American Labor Alliance is the newest of the five support
groups within the AFL-CIO meant to bring minorities in and represent their
interests.

APALA will hold the first national conference on organizing Asian-American
workers Aug. 2-4 in California, discussing how and where to organize
Asian-Americans, train the organizers and spur unions to focus more on such
tasks.

The hope is that if cultural and language barriers can be overcome, a receptive
audience will exist among workers sometimes exploited in garment, electronics,
hotel and restaurant, janitorial and other trades.

One problem unions may encounter is distrust by immigrants or refugees who fled
authoritarian regimes. Police in St. Louis have had difficulty building ties
with Vietnamese who recall arbitrary and corrupt police behavior back home.
Unions in communist countries were essentially for controlling workers and
transmitting ideology.

"Fear is definitely a factor in organizing," conceded Candice H. Yun of APALA's
Washington office. "What the Asian community has found is that they have to go
through the community first, instead of going directly to the workplace -
building community centers, holding ESL classes or citizenship classes to build
trust and also to explain about the United States and worker rights."

Labor's main target groups, given their size, are Chinese, Vietnamese and
Filipino, said Yun. APALA has 13 chapters: six in California with others in
Michigan, New York, Hawaii, Minnesota, Washington, D.C., and two in Washington
state. Efforts are underway to set up chapters in Chicago and Boston.

"I feel pretty disappointed in Illinois," said Jin Xiaochang of the Midwest
Center for Labor Research, in Chicago. "There's a big population here, for
instance a lot of Vietnamese in the meat-packing industry, Koreans and Chinese
in various industries and Filipinos in health care. But unions haven't done much
to attract them. They have very few organizers who can speak Asian languages."

Xiaochang says he expects the conference to serve "as a starting point to push
unions to pay more attention to Asian immigrants."

St. Louis has seen a small yet consistent Asian immigration for decades, mostly
Chinese, Koreans and Filipinos drawn by scientific and educational facilities.
But in recent years Asian refugees - mainly Vietnamese but also Cambodians and
others - have been resettled in St. Louis, often working in factories or
service-sector jobs and providing a potential pool for unions.

"It hasn't come up on the priority list but there's always that interest," said
St. Louis Labor Council President Bob Kelley. "And should it become a situation
in St. Louis where the population demands it, we'd be more than interested in
doing it."

The AFL-CIO's new emphasis on diversity and its offer to provide material in
foreign languages will help, he said. "Before, if someone said go talk to the
Thai population, I'm not sure they would have understood me."

LOAD-DATE: May 31, 1996

LANGUAGE: English

                  Copyright 1996 St. Louis Post-Dispatch, Inc.


                              159 of 308 DOCUMENTS

                       St. Louis Post-Dispatch (Missouri)

                   April 24, 1995, Monday, FIVE STAR Edition

FUZZY ARGUMENTS ON IMMIGRATION

BYLINE: Thomas Sowell Copyright Creators Syndicate Inc.

SECTION: EDITORIAL; Pg. 7B

LENGTH: 733 words

THOMAS SOWELL COLUMN

DATELINE: PALO ALTO, CALIF.


Immigration is one of a growing number of issues that cannot be discussed
rationally. Mush and cant are the standard ingredients in any debate on the
subject. Some examples:

"We are a nation of immigrants."

"Diversity is our strength."

"Criticism of immigration is racist."

None of these statements is an argument. Each is a way of not making an
argument, while pretending to do so.

Of course we are a nation of immigrants. So are most other nations. The English
are not the indigenous people of England, the Turks are not the indigenous
people of Turkey and the Malays are not the indigenous people of Malaysia. So
what?

The fact that immigrants were once valuable additions to the country does not
mean that the same thing may be assumed today, any more than the fact that
horses and buggies were once the best way to get around means that we should
rely on them in 1995.

One problem with discussing immigrants in general is that there is no such thing
as an immigrant in general. Not only do they vary from one individual to
another, whole categories of immigrants have very different histories, both in
their homelands and in the United States.

Less than 5 percent of the immigrants from Britain or Germany go on welfare when
they get here, but more than one-fourth the immigrants from Vietnam go on
welfare, as do nearly half of those from Cambodia. That compares to 14 percent
among American blacks.

If making any distinction among immigrant groups is "racist," as the
intelligentsia seem to think, then apparently the choice facing the country is
to be racist or to be suckers who pay for anyone who wants to come here and live
off U.S. taxpayers. Nothing will promote racism more than a choice like that.

What about that wonderful "diversity" we hear so many rhapsodies about?

You want diversity? They have diversity in Bosnia, in Somalia, in Rwanda and in
various former Soviet republics where people are today slaughtering each other
just for belonging to the "wrong" group.

We haven't reached that point yet, but give us time. Already polls are
indicating that young whites and young blacks are more hostile to each other
than are their elders. What does that say about the future? Throw in a few more
groups, and lots of "leaders" and activists to hype their differences, and our
future may not be a lot better than that of other "multicultural" and "diverse"
nations.

Do immigrants contribute nothing? Of course they contribute something. Some
immigrants - Albert Einstein and Edward Teller, for example - undoubtedly saved
tens of thousands of American lives by making this the first nuclear nation.
That not only brought World War II to an end without leaving the beaches of
Japan strewn with the bodies of American soldiers, it made any new Pearl Harbor
against the United States a suicidal gamble for any other country.

Some immigrants come here with more of the traditional American values of work
and family than many of the current generation of Americans. Many come here
wanting nothing more than to become Americans. But many of the intelligentsia
want them to stay foreign in culture and alienated from our values.

To a large segment of the intelligentsia, immigration is just one more stage on
which to engage in moral preening. They treat immigration to the United States
as if it were a civil right of foreigners around the world and regard any
thought of controlling our own borders in the interest of the people who live
here as mean-spirited.

One of the few books to challenge this vision of the anointed is the recently
published "Alien Nation" by Peter Brimelow. This book has its flaws but it shows
what arguments can be made against immigration.   Brimelow points out, for
example, that diseases once virtually extinct in the United States, such as
tuberculosis, leprosy and measles, have now been introduced again by immigrants
from the Third World. Crime rates are also very high among some immigrant
groups.

Anyone who wants to see arguments on the other side can read any of a number of
pro-immigration books or essays by Julian Simon. The point here is that the
whole subject of immigration policy has been beset with taboos for too long.

All sorts of rational arguments can be made for or against immigration. It is
just that very few are. Among the questions that need to be addressed are: How
many and from where?

LOAD-DATE: April 25, 1995

LANGUAGE: English

                  Copyright 1995 St. Louis Post-Dispatch, Inc.


                              160 of 308 DOCUMENTS

                       St. Louis Post-Dispatch (Missouri)

                 April 30, 1995, Sunday, FIVE STAR LIFT Edition

MCNARY ON THE HOT SEAT - FROM HERE TO CHINA

BYLINE: Jerry Berger

SECTION: EVERYDAY MAGAZINE; Pg. 2C

LENGTH: 986 words

JERRY BERGER COLUMN


WEEK'S WRAP: Former U.S. Immigration and Naturalization Service chief Gene
McNary just can't seem to get enough. As a member of the law firm that handled
union matters for the Special School District, he was involved in the
controversy over videotaped surveillance of transportation workers and
custodians who defied a court order against electioneering for two union-backed
board candidates who were elected April 4. And a $ 2,500 tab for the snooping is
coming due. Now, McNary is packing for China on immigration business. He
explained, "Many Chinese businesses are opening offices in the U.S. With the L-1
visas, they (executives and managers) can remain here for up to seven years.
Chinese businessmen have been going to Hong Kong brokers and saw the brokers
take out a great deal of profits." . . .

Shop 'N Save is in confabs to buy out Price Chopper, a local seven-store chain
of full-service grocery stores, according to insiders. Shop 'N Save is a
subsidiary of the giant Super Value of Minneapolis, which acquired Wetterau.
Neither Nick Sida, independent owner of Price Chopper, nor Butch Covili, exec
veep of Shop 'N Save, returned our phone calls. . . .

Vet flack Marvin Madeson has surfaced on the payroll of St. Louis County Human
Services honcho Judi Parker. Madeson, a Democratic Party activist and one-time
cable television figure, will handle all calls about county social services. . .
.

Asher Benrubi, a.k.a. Smash, has signed on with Indianapolis radio station
WKLR-FM after stints here on KSHE and WKKX.

BEHIND THE HEADLINES: "Boatmen's Bank is only a few blocks away from the
Oklahoma City blast," said Joseph Schneider, manager of the construction
division of Catastrophe Cleaning & Restoration Co. (CATCO) on Chouteau Avenue.
"There has been some damage to the bank, but we can't do a thing until all the
bodies are cleared from the federal building." Over lunch at Giuseppe's,
Schneider explained that CATCO has risk management agreements with Boatmen's
nationwide as well as for the St. Anthony of Padua Catholic Church on Meramec
Street. He said reconstruction of the church, damaged by fire in 1994, would be
completed in time for Christmas Mass of '95. The $ 15 million cost is covered by
insurance. . . .

Management at Morton's of Chicago steakhouse in Clayton evacuated diners Friday
evening, April 21, after a bomb threat was phoned in. Said a staffer: "It was a
farce. Someone thought he was terribly funny. The (Clayton) police came and
checked out the building." Diners returned later.

TIME & MONEY: A few years ago, the area's top 25 law firms committed to having
at least 25 percent of their attorneys give 25 or more hours annually to the pro
bono Volunteer Lawyer Program. Now, Legal Services of Eastern Missouri is
reprising this successful theme of "25/25" by asking the same large firms to
pledge a minimum of $ 25,000 each, payable over five years, to fund a new Center
for Justice at 4232 Forest Park Boulevard. Rick Teitelman, exec director of
LSEM, says that the cost savings to be realized by owning instead of renting
office space will enable him to hire at least three additional staff attorneys
to serve the legal needs of the poor.

ONLY THE HAIRDRESSER KNOWS: "I've been cutting Brett Hull's hair since 1990 and
he has natural blond hair on which I apply molding mud." That's how Cece Cuba of
Jon Thomas described her chores for her favorite hockey-playing customer. Cuba
is out of Jon Thomas and on her way to school to qualify her as a licensed
cosmetologist." She described molding mud as a texturizer for the hair - a
styling aid similar to a gel.

BERGER CLIPS: S'nooze to me that Aldermanic Prez Francis Slay Jr. graduated from
St. Louis U. School of Law with the likes of Circuit Attorney Dee Joyce-Hayes
and Mo. Director of Revenue Jeanette Lohman in the 1980 spring class. St. Louis
Mayor Boz was in the previous class. . . .

Shower and bathtub singers might like to know that "The Gong Show" has been
recreated and teamed with "The Oldies Show" each Friday at Joe Hanon's Radisson
Hotel in Clayton. Jackie McCoy and "Mad" Maynard occupy the spotlight, beginning
at 8 p.m. . . .

Former Sen. Tom Eagleton will be front 'n center at 6 p.m. next Sunday, May 7,
when he'll be presented the Lifetime Achievement Award by the American Jewish
Congress at the Ritz-Carlton Hotel. . . .

Laclede's Landing hopeful Capital Gaming International's strong reaction to a
rival's charges of weak finances was organized by hard-charging prez and
hometowner, Ed Tracy. An unfazed Tracy quickly flew in fiscal analysts from both
coasts, unleashed a batallion of barristers, recruited Stan Musial as a local
investor, and papered the Port Authority with letters. Quipped one Capital vet
staffer, "Tracy's been successful on the Atlantic City boardwalk, in the Native
American gaming wars, and in the battle for New Orleans. He really wants to win
in St. Louis. So far, the pushing and shoving for the lease has been patty-cake
for him." . . .

More than 40 photographs by budding lensman Wayne Beugg will be on view
beginning May 7 at Stannard House on the campus of St. Louis Priory School.
Beugg, top gun at Oppenheimer & Co., Inc., took most of the photos on safari in
Botswana in 1994, in Europe and in our town.

SIGNS OF THE TIMES: This may be more about violence than sex, but one has to
wonder about the sensitivity of certain Bi-State Transit Authority officials.

At the MetroLink stop at Union Station, the United Way has a sign that focuses
on one of its beneficiaries, the Rape Crisis Center. Its message: "The average
rapist gets about 3 1/2 years. Most victims get life."

Three feet away is a second sign, steering riders to the third floor of the
train station cum shopping mall. That one is dominated by the double-take owl
logo of Hooters, home of short shorts, tight T-shirts, drooling diners and
double entendre entrees.

LOAD-DATE: May 1, 1995

LANGUAGE: English

                  Copyright 1995 St. Louis Post-Dispatch, Inc.


                              161 of 308 DOCUMENTS

                       St. Louis Post-Dispatch (Missouri)

                 May 3, 1995, Wednesday, FIVE STAR LIFT Edition

20,000 CUBANS GAIN CLEARANCE FOR ENTRY; CLINTON RELENTS ON GUANTANAMO BAY
DETAINEES

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 1A

LENGTH: 627 words

DATELINE: WASHINGTON


In a change of policy, President Bill Clinton agreed Tuesday to allow about
20,000 Cubans into the United States after months of detention at Guantanamo
Bay. But he said any further Cubans who flee their country will be forcibly
returned home.

Cuban-American leaders expressed delight that people detained at the U.S. naval
base in Cuba would be permitted to migrate, but they complained bitterly that
future immigrants would be turned away.

Some Republicans accused Clinton of shutting the doors on a haven that for 35
years has beckoned Cubans fleeing Fidel Castro's communist country.

"It's a very lamentable decision," said Rep. Ileana Ros-Lehtinen, a Republican
who represents the Miami area.

Sen. Jesse Helms, R-N.C., chairman of the Senate Foreign Relations Committee,
said, "How sad it is that the United States is now viewed as an accomplice in
Castro's repression of the Cuban people."

Answering Helms' charges on the Senate floor, Sen. Bob Graham, D-Fla., said
Clinton's decision "was a difficult one." While endorsing Clinton's policy,
Graham said the return of future refugees to Cuba "causes great concern to many
people, including myself."

There were indications of a serious rift in the administration over the new
policy. Dennis Hays, the State Department's coordinator for Cuban affairs, and
his deputy, Nancy Mason, asked to be reassigned in protest of the decision to
repatriate fleeing Cubans, officials said.

Hays headed the U.S. delegation that held three rounds of talks with Cuban
officials on migration issues, most recently two weeks ago in New York. He is
known as a strong supporter of the U.S. trade embargo against Cuba and to have
close ties to conservative Cuban-American lawmakers.

The decision to admit refugees from Guantanamo stemmed largely from fears of
civil disturbances by Cubans frustrated by their captivity and angry about a
policy that until now excluded them from the United States. U.S. officials say
20,916 Cubans are now being held at Guantanamo.

About 6,000 American troops are stationed at Guantanamo, and the administration
said it was increasingly concerned about their safety.

Moreover, it has been costing the United States $ 1 million a day to guard the
Cubans, and the administration was facing a $ 100 million bill to upgrade the
camps.

The new policy was struck in negotiations with Cuba. Administration officials
refused to reveal details of the talks but described the accord as a narrow
agreement that does not affect Washington's estrangement from Havana.

Attorney General Janet Reno said the new policy had three goals: to normalize
migration procedures with Cuba, to provide a humanitarian solution to the
volatile situation at Guantanamo and to prevent another uncontrolled exodus of
Cubans on rafts and rickety boats.

"Cubans must know that the only way to come to the United States is by applying
in Cuba," Reno said.

Castro's government has promised that Cubans who try to reach the United States
and are returned home "will suffer no adverse consequences or reprisals of any
sort," Reno said.

The administration has been wrestling over a Cuban migration policy since last
summer, when nearly 35,000 boat people tried to reach Florida on homemade rafts.
To halt that exodus, the administration shipped all the rafters to the U.S.
naval base at Guantanamo at the southeastern tip of Cuba and announced they
would never be allowed into the United States.

Eventually, more than 32,000 Cubans were taken to Guantanamo and to a refugee
center that was opened in Panama in September.

Gen. John Sheehan, commander in chief of the U.S. Atlantic Command, said that
under the new policy, 500 Cubans a week will be flown from Guantanamo to the
United States.

LOAD-DATE: May 4, 1995

LANGUAGE: English

                  Copyright 1995 St. Louis Post-Dispatch, Inc.


                              162 of 308 DOCUMENTS

                       St. Louis Post-Dispatch (Missouri)

                   May 3, 1995, Wednesday, FIVE STAR Edition

8TH-GRADERS PASS THROUGH 'ELLIS ISLAND' IMMIGRATION

BYLINE: Raymond W. Vodicka Of the St. Charles Post

SECTION: ST. CHARLES; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 304 words


About 100 eighth-graders at Hollenbeck Middle School have experienced what it
was like to go through Ellis Island as European immigrants.

The school, at 4545 Central School Road, held an Immigration Day on Friday. "We
wanted them to get the feel" of what immigrants experienced at the turn of the
century, said teacher Peggy McFadden.

In the gym, a series of stations were set up to resemble the stations that
immigrants went through on the island, next to the Statue of Liberty.

"It was pretty typical," said Cindy Dougherty, another teacher. The
students-turned-immigrants were questioned about how they made a living, whether
they had jobs promised, where and with whom they would stay and whether they had
money. They were also given cursory physical exams. The students had made their
own passports, in which they included family trees. Some of them wrote or phoned
distant relatives for family background.

Amy Gilbert showed her German heritage by wearing her grandmother's long black
skirt and lacy white blouse.

Kris Harre carried a sack of clothes he might have brought over on the boat. He
said he was interested in the tests immigrants took and found the project
"pretty creative."

Nick Cox learned about the potato famine and land repossession that forced so
many Irish to immigrate to this country.

Besides visiting Ellis Island, the students heard from historian George
Wunderlich, who dressed up in period costume to talk about conditions facing the
immigrants and their reasons for coming.

He told the students that many Italians came to mine clay and became artisans
and that many Germans came to farm or grow grapes. He divided the students into
ethnic groups so they could see how multi-cultural our society is.

"They learned about prejudice and misconceptions," said McFadden.

LOAD-DATE: May 4, 1995

LANGUAGE: English

GRAPHIC: PHOTO; (1) Photo By Wendi Fitzgerald/St. Charles Post - ABOVE:
Eighth-graders at Hollenbeck Middle School dressed in costume Friday for
Immigration Day, when they went through stations meant to give them a flavor of
Ellis Island. From left are Carrie Becker, Paige Hester, Amy Gilbert and J.C.
Hemmer. (2) Photo By Wendi Fitzgerald/St. Charles Post - BELOW: Amy Gilbert,
right, shows her German heritage by wearing her grandmother's lacy blouse and
skirt. She chats with Amy Benson, in ruffled skirt and and parasol.

                  Copyright 1995 St. Louis Post-Dispatch, Inc.


                              163 of 308 DOCUMENTS

                       St. Louis Post-Dispatch (Missouri)

                  May 5, 1995, Friday, FIVE STAR LIFT Edition

LETTERS FROM THE PEOPLE

SECTION: EDITORIAL; Pg. 6B

LENGTH: 1405 words


Anti-Terrorism Act Threatens Freedom

The Omnibus Counterterrorism Act of 1995, which was reportedly introduced to
fight terrorism, in fact reintroduces the concept of guilt by association. This
threatens the civil rights of many law-abiding American citizens as well as
immigrants who cherish the freedoms they found in this country.

According to the provisions of this act, resident aliens can be deported even
though they have never committed any illegal act, in fact without even knowing
why because the evidence is kept secret. Alternatively, this act would allow the
government to detain such aliens permanently, again even if they have never
committed any crime.

American citizens would not fare much better under this act. The president could
declare any foreign organization "terrorist." This declaration could not be
challenged in court. If an American citizen "should have known" that donations
(even blankets, food or medicine) that he or she gave went to an organization
aligned with that group, even a purely charitable, nonviolent organization, he
or she could be subjected to heavy fines or imprisonment. Naturally, such a
sweeping law would be vulnerable to political abuse.

As an American Muslim, I fear the act would make it possible to open
investigations or conduct surveillance on individuals or groups (or mosques)
based on their religion or ethnic background, even if there is no evidence of
criminal activity. The act would also expand wiretapping to unprecedented
levels.

This act should be defeated in Congress simply because it violates the U.S.
Constitution. I urge every law-abiding citizen to call his or her member of
Congress about this pending legislation. Faquir Muhammud Town and Country Model
For Housing

We must comment on the two April 26 letters regarding the Darst-Webbe
redevelopment project. One said we should not rebuild Darst-Webbe. The other
said the plan is too expensive.

We are volunteers of Adequate Housing for Missourians, a non-profit organization
that has been working on the Near South Side with public housing tenants since
1988. We are convinced that public housing in the city has failed because of the
extreme mismanagement by the St. Louis Housing Authority.

Time and again we have seen money wasted on poor construction, inadequate
security, lack of coordination, the hiring of unqualified friends and relatives,
tenants' complaints being ignored by a staff that did not respect their needs.
There are some very good people working at the authority but not enough to make
it successful.

Public housing residents have been long-suffering. It is time they were able to
live in safe and sanitary housing. People of low income should not be punished
because they are down on their luck. They should be assisted by government and
private organizations to improve their ability to move out of public housing and
to earn enough money for a better life for their families.

If the $ 46.7 million is awarded to St. Louis by HUD, it is incumbent on all of
us to make sure that the money is spent prudently, that residents are involved
in planning and participating in a healthy community and that construction and
management is done by a competent private firm. Or the Housing Authority must be
totally reorganized to become an efficient organization that is accountable to
the public.

The Darst-Webbe project will benefit more than public housing residents.
Low-rise garden apartments will be built there for diverse income groups which
can pay market rate rent and purchase homes. They will live close to good jobs,
entertainment and other amenities of city living. If the whole community pulls
together, it could turn out to be a positive model for the rest of the country.
Joan Botwinick University City Final Notice

If I ever doubted that the Post-Dispatch is laid out by men who put sports above
all else, that fact was made evident when I spied the obituary of Howard Cosell
on the front page.

Just the day before, Maggie Kuhn, that great Gray Panther, died. Her obituary
ran many pages back in the paper. She mattered a great deal to a lot of people -
yes, maybe even those aging folks who watched professional boxing and
professional football before Cosell himself bailed out, assailing the idiocy of
the sports. I think each might have been irritated to see that the male appeared
"above the fold" and the female appeared in the "back of the book."

I'm not saying Kuhn's obit should have been on the front page. But I am saying
that just being on TV does not make a person worthy of such status. If you read
the two obituaries carefully, you might see that these two grizzled fighters
sounded a lot alike in their spirit and truthfulness. They probably shout from
their great soapboxes in the sky, railing about why no one really heard their
messages. Martha Baker University City It's Exasperating

Not two minutes before I read the April 30 story of a Greenville, S.C., teacher
who had her students write to H.J. Heinz Co. regarding an incorrect usage of
"its" on its steak sauce label, I had bemoaned a similar - and even worse -
error on the Aunt Jemima Lite syrup bottle: "You'll love knowing its got half
the calories of regular syrup. . . ." Then, to top it off, a few hours later I
saw an ad for My Friend's Wardrobe, touting: "16 Years of Resale at It's Best."

Does no one know the difference anymore? I can't believe how often "it's" and
"its" are misused. Same thing with you're and your.

I know in the overall scheme of life, this is a relatively minor thing, but it's
driving me crazy! Julie Sharamitaro St. Louis Protect Old Glory

Old Glory needs our help.

There are some in America who would deface the U.S. flag, then wrap themselves
in the protection of the Constitution. This outrageous conduct denies the
history of the Constitution and the flag. The flag is more than a piece of
cloth. It is our sacred national symbol. Its fabric is the fabric of America -
the bold stripes of a courageous and dynamic people, the bright stars of a
tolerant and just society. We would not allow the fabric of our nation to be
torn. Nor can we allow our flag to be publicly desecrated.

This country is a nation of immigrants. But despite different ideologies,
religions and ethnicities, one thing we share is a belief in the ideals and
values that set this country apart.

We need to reiterate clearly and strongly the values on which this country was
founded. The voters are hungry for exactly that, and if Congress didn't receive
that message last November, then they truly are deaf.

The 104th Congress is expected to consider this issue soon. Already, more than
300 members of Congress have signed on as co-sponsors of a constitutional
amendment to protect the flag from acts of physical desecration.

Why do we need an amendment to address this issue? The U.S. Supreme Court has
left us no choice. Twice in the past six years, the Supreme Court has ruled that
laws that prohibit flag burning - such as those that existed in 48 states - were
invalid because they violated the constitutional right to free speech. With the
legislative option closed, the only avenue available to provide our flag the
protection it deserves is to amend the Constitution.

The states understand there is no other option. Forty-nine states have passed
resolutions asking Congress to pass the flag amendment. It is now up to
Congress. Joseph J. Frank Past Missouri State Commander Past National Vice
Commander The American Legion Sappington Weapon Danger

An April 18 article quoted Gov. Mel Carnahan's choice for Missouri's Department
of Public Safety, Gary Kempker, as stating:

"I think there are a lot of things citizens can contribute to the community, but
it shouldn't extend to carrying concealed weapons. There's a danger there."

I wish to respond to Kempker's statement: I think there are a few things
politicians and bureaucrats can contribute to the community, but it shouldn't
extend to their determining whether the people can be armed and carry concealed
weapons. There's a danger there. David G. Baugh Sullivan Catholic Teaching

Twelve years of Catholic education does not make Ann Phelan an authority in the
Catholic faith.

She must have been absent for religion class because her lifestyle, as described
in her April 26 letter, is definitely not in accord with Catholic teaching.
Richard W. Marklin St. Louis

LOAD-DATE: May 6, 1995

LANGUAGE: English

TYPE: LETTERS

                  Copyright 1995 St. Louis Post-Dispatch, Inc.


                              164 of 308 DOCUMENTS

                       St. Louis Post-Dispatch (Missouri)

                 May 18, 1995, Thursday, FIVE STAR LIFT Edition

LOFTY RHETORIC OR HARD FACTS?

BYLINE: Thomas Sowell Copyright Creators Syndicate Inc.

SECTION: EDITORIAL; Pg. 7B

LENGTH: 746 words

THOMAS SOWELL COLUMN

DATELINE: PALO ALTO, CALIF.


Peter Brimelow may become the Charles Murray of immigration, even if his book
"Alien Nation" never sells as many copies as "The Bell Curve." Like Murray,
Brimelow has presented a lot of unwelcome facts that lead to even more unwelcome
conclusions on an emotionally charged subject.

The taboos against saying a discouraging word about immigration are second only
to the taboos surrounding race. In both cases, this not only leads to policies
based on false assumptions and emotional rhetoric, it puts an enormous leverage
in the hands of racist demagogues, who may seem to be the only people talking
straight, instead of in lofty rhapsodies about "diversity."

Brimelow is not a demagogue but neither is he as disciplined in his writing as
Charles Murray. Still, he says a lot of important things that you are not likely
to hear from other sources.

Where else will you learn that diseases that were virtually extinct in the
United States - tuberculosis, leprosy, measles, cholera and malaria - have been
reintroduced into this country by immigrants? Where else will you learn that
people who just crossed the border are eligible for preferential treatment under
affirmative-action policies?

Where else will you learn that refugees stay on welfare longer than either
native-born Americans or other kinds of immigrants? Where else will you learn
that some immigrants - mostly from Southeast Asia - go on welfare 10 times as
often as immigrants from Western European countries like Britain and Germany?

Where else will you learn of the organized criminal activities of Soviet emigres
or immigrants from Nigeria?

Brimelow rejects the notion that it is somehow morally wrong to be selective as
to who gets in and restrictive as to how many are let in altogether. In short,
he rejects the citizen-of-the-world posture of those who think that borders are
arbitrary things that should give way to lofty rhetoric.

Brimelow proceeds from the premise that a society needs bonds to hold it
together and that a common culture and even a common race may be part of those
bonds. The case that a common culture is necessary is stronger than the case
that a common race is necessary. Most Americans do not regard native-born
Japanese-Americans or Chinese-Americans as foreign, as shown by high rates of
intermarriage of both groups with whites and the fact that neither group is
confined to ethnic enclaves any more.

It may be worth noting that a 1992 study that showed blacks being turned down
for mortgage loans more often than whites also showed whites being turned down
more often than Asians. White hegemony seems to matter less to most Americans
than either Brimelow or many liberals think.

That is very different from saying that most Americans want to see this country
Balkanized by programs that keep foreigners foreign in the name of
"bilingualism" or "multiculturalism." The fact that so many of these programs
are fundamentally opposed to the values and traditions of this country makes
them all the more dangerous in the hands of people with ideological axes to
grind.

Many of these ideologues are native-born middle class and affluent white
Americans, using immigrants as mascots to symbolize their countercultural
values. Their net effect is to raise both the social and the financial costs of
absorbing immigrants, thereby creating more public opposition to immigration.

Neither immigrants nor other mascots of the anointed necessarily benefit from
their patronage.

The tragedy and farce of American immigration policy is painfully brought out in
"Alien Nation." Nothing that would be effective in securing our borders is
acceptable to the ideologues or to the media pundits whom they have either
captured or morally intimidated into silence.

The negative facts that Brimelow brings out against immigration are, of course,
not the only facts that matter. However, there is little danger that the
positive contributions of immigrants will be overlooked in the present
atmosphere where "diversity" has become a magic word that is supposed to trump
all arguments.

We need a real debate about immigration based on fact and logic. Professor
Julian Simon of the University of Maryland would be the best advocate of a
pro-immigration policy. Brimelow's "Alien Nation" makes him a top choice for the
contrary position.

Can the television networks find time for a serious debate on this subject, in
between the sitcoms and the O.J. Simpson trial?

LOAD-DATE: May 19, 1995

LANGUAGE: English

                  Copyright 1995 St. Louis Post-Dispatch, Inc.


                              165 of 308 DOCUMENTS

                       St. Louis Post-Dispatch (Missouri)

                  May 21, 1995, Sunday, FIVE STAR LIFT Edition

AN INVISIBLE POPULATION; IMMIGRANTS ARE CARVING OUT THEIR NEW LIVES IN A
HEARTLAND CITY WHERE THEY BLEND IN SO QUIETLY, FEW NOTICE THEY'RE HERE

BYLINE: Story by Philip Dine Photos by Jerry Naunheim Jr. Of the Post-Dispatch
Staff

SECTION: WAR PAGE; Pg. 1B

LENGTH: 2694 words


St. Louis, long sketched in black and white, is on the verge of being profoundly
- if quietly - transformed.

For decades, the area's population base and ethnic mix have been stable.
Immigration and the challenges it poses may be rocking California or Texas or
Florida, but they seem far removed from the Heartland, many St. Louisans
suggest.

Yet signs of a new presence abound:

Minutes after the Vietnamese health clinic on Keokuk Street in south St. Louis
opens, the waiting room is jammed with scheduled patients, relatives and
walk-ins. Novice interpreters and conferences pushed into the hallway make for a
chaotic scene. But the Vietnamese here say they're ecstatic to have a place
where people understand their problems.

A dozen blocks to the west, an upbeat teacher named Lorene Reid pauses at a
table that her students at Fanning Middle School seem to have designated the
Hispanic desk. She gives pointers on grammar to the Mexican, Cuban and Honduran
fifth-graders looking up at her. Then she heads to a corner where two boys, one
Iraqi and one Chinese, sit transfixed by a computer game.

Above the thumping of the sewing machines and presses and button-holers at
Biltwell Clothing's factory at Lucas and 15th streets downtown, Ibrisim Dedic's
co-workers speak Serbo-Croatian and Spanish and Vietnamese, Russian and Polish
and Romanian and Greek, Chinese and Czech and Italian and the Amharic of
Ethiopia. Sixty percent of the plant's 300 workers are from overseas. Dedic, a
Bosnian, is the plant's first foreign-born union official.

Refugees and immigrants are arriving daily in St. Louis, driven by rising
xenophobia in Russia or crushing poverty in Mexico or famine in parts of Africa,
or simply drawn from an India or a Korea by the opportunities here.

The area's population has become one of the most ethnically diverse in the
Midwest. The numbers aren't huge but the breadth is notable for a metropolitan
region the size of St. Louis, experts say. More than 90 nationalities are
scattered among the area's 2.5 million people. And in recent years the growth of
immigration to St. Louis has well outpaced the national rate.

The number of foreign-born residents here stands at roughly 80,000 two-thirds
more than the 48,000 shown in the 1990 census. The increase partly reflects
earlier undercounting but also a strong influx in the past five years.

This is all happening with scant attention and virtually no public discussion.
Beyond commenting on an exotic new Thai restaurant or a Chinese cultural
festival, people generally seem unaware of the shifting demographics.

Why? St. Louis lacks traditional ethnic enclaves no Little Havana, no Chinatown,
no barrio or a single dominant group of immigrants who might capture the public
ear. Polls in other regions suggest that longtime residents tend to most notice
and feel threatened by a large homogeneous group of immigrants with a particular
language and culture.

Noticed or not, immigrants and refugees here are making an imprint on a
decidedly monoglot area.

They are revitalizing streets in south St. Louis. Schools are struggling to cope
with an expanding pool of students from divergent backgrounds. Churches are
setting up special services and new ministries.

A few immigrants are spending scarce dollars to put out foreign language
publications, hoping to bind their communities. Police are taking steps to
prevent new residents from becoming easy prey, sometimes from fellow refugees.
Health care providers are testing novel measures to reach poorly served
populations.

Signs point to continued growth in the numbers of foreigners to this area. Local
economic forecasts call for continued job expansion here, while rising hostility
toward immigrants elsewhere has sparked secondary migration to St. Louis and
other Midwestern destinations.

Dr. William Chignoli, a native of Argentina who works with Hispanics here, says
the relative absence of animosity gives the area a chance to head off crises
that have engulfed other parts of the country.

"It's a perfect time to act because the problem is beginning in this moment," he
said.

Who Lives Where

A decade ago, South Grand Boulevard was a dilapidated and nearly deserted
stretch knifing through the city's southern tier. Today it pulses with the
entrepreneurial spirit of Southeast Asians, Hispanics, Middle Easterners and
others, who have given birth to an array of food markets, restaurants and stores
of all types. Refugees live on side streets, many placed there over the past
decade by the nearby International Institute of Metropolitan St. Louis, the
largest resettlement agency in Missouri.

Nearer the central corridor to the north live East Africans - largely
Ethiopians, Eritreans and Somalis - while deep south St. Louis has pockets of
Bosnians, Romanians and other East Europeans.

Along Olive Boulevard in University City sits a second, smallish commercial
district bearing a foreign flavor, mostly Chinese. Many Russian Jewish refugees
live nearby.

West St. Louis County communities, including Ballwin, Creve Coeur, Manchester
and Chesterfield, are home to Chinese and Pakistani immigrants, to Koreans and
Indians and Filipinos.

On the Illinois side, Hispanics live in Fairmont City, while some East Europeans
are heavily represented in parts of the Metro East area.

For the most part, St. Louis' foreign population is spread across the area more
by economic rank and by immigrant or refugee status than by nationality. The
prevalence of mid-sized groups helps explain the absence of visible enclaves.

The one much bigger group, Hispanics, is split into nearly two dozen
nationalities scattered from the South Grand-Jefferson area to North County to
West County to Southern Illinois making it perhaps the most invisible of all
foreign populations here.

Cuban-born Luis Trabanco sells food from Mexico, Spain, South America and the
Caribbean in his market at Lindenwood and Hereford in south St. Louis.

"People come in the store and say, 'Why are you here? There aren't any Hispanics
in the city.' I say, 'There are, there are tons of them.' We don't congregate
together, and the population is relatively new compared to other cities."

Many refugees work away from the public eye in jobs where a command of English
is not required. Isolation or lack of resources keeps many inside, says Ali
Al-Mansouri, an Iraqi refugee.

Al-Mansouri helps immigrants study English in their homes during the day and
makes candy in a factory on the evening shift before returning to his small
apartment on South Grand near Interstate 44.

"So there's no chance for a lot of people to see me outside," says Al-Mansouri,
who spent two years in a Saudi refugee camp after taking part in an uprising
against the Iraqi regime.

The quiescent flavor of the immigrant experience here has pluses and minuses,
suggests Eric Wernecke, who resettles refugees for Catholic Charities. It has
reduced ethnic stereotyping, blunted potential hostility and led to more
blending in, he says. But, "There's less awareness of the needs of ethnic
groups, of their concerns. It just doesn't get the attention of St. Louisans."

A Fledgling Response

Yet the effect of the influx is being felt.

At the start of this school year, nine St. Louis public schools offered special
classes for students speaking foreign languages. Within two months, the flow of
immigrants and refugees pushed the number to 11 two high, three middle and six
elementary schools.

By September, 14 English as Second Language centers are expected to be
operating.

"The number of students we're overwhelmed," says Priscilla Schulz. She was the
lone social worker for the city's foreign students from 1988 until the schools
hired an assistant last fall to help her counsel youngsters and their families.

The numbers are telescoped at Fanning Middle School, where more than one of six
students - 82 of 468 - speaks a primary language other than English. The figure
had been as high as 111 a month after school started. That prompted the opening
of a new English as Second Language center, which took some of the additional
students.

The schools also have been confronted with non-educational matters. Tension
between minority American and foreign students has simmered. But for the first
time, violence broke out a couple of months ago among a few refugee youths. The
incident, at Roosevelt High School, led to the transfer of the Vietnamese
involved and prompted a handful of Bosnians to drop out.

Police Chief Clarence Harmon says he is concerned about the implications of
newcomers fighting each other, which "could speak to some growing antagonism we
need to deal with."

Immigrants generally are unused to the level of private violence that now
surrounds them. Harmon has met with some worried about street crime or incipient
ethnic gangs, trying to build trust with immigrants conditioned to viewing
police with suspicion.

In parts of south St. Louis, refugees are reticent to report organized
hooliganism for fear of reprisal, especially with the terror back home still
fresh in mind. So, they simply move from street to street to avoid problems.

Meanwhile, some merchants, fearing gangs will gain a hold in their enterprises,
want police to get more aggressive. In the last 20 months, the force has hired
two Asian-American officers, and the department's training focus this year is on
immigrants and ethnicity.

Anyone strolling along the 3300 block of South Grand a few Sundays ago might
have seen some 500 Vietnamese spilling onto the sidewalk outside St. Pius V
Church. Since February, the church has celebrated a monthly Mass for Vietnamese
refugees.

Churches have been among the local institutions most affected by the new
arrivals. Two years ago three churches served Hispanics in the city and county;
now 10 do. In the past year Haitians have set up their own French-speaking
church as well as youth discussion groups in Creole at Harmony Baptist on Grace
Avenue. Fifteen Korean churches form the backbone of that immigrant community.

In West County, a new Islamic mosque and a relatively new Hindu temple loom like
bookmarks on Weidman Road. An elementary school teaching Arabic and the Koran is
planned adjacent to the mosque, where people pray five times a day.

The rectory of a converted church on South Taylor Avenue in midtown is filled
with racks of donated clothes and shoes, meticulously cleaned and arranged by
gender, size and season, waiting for Hispanics to take what they need before
heading to work at dawn.

Chignoli, the Argentinian doctor who in the 1980s worked with Cuban and
Nicaraguan refugees in Miami, runs what he calls a "silent ministry" here for
Hispanics, chiefly Mexicans some here illegally.

Until now, he says, he has not discussed his work publicly, believing some he
counsels prefer quiet.

Maria Luisa, for one. On a recent Saturday afternoon, despite a warming sun, the
drapes remained tightly drawn in her family's two-bedroom apartment near Arsenal
Street. Religious ornaments filled the tiny but well-scrubbed rooms of the
dwelling, reached by a narrow stairway.

From the mountains of Central Mexico, the 11 family members made their way here
in groups over the past three years. Maria Luisa, 15, speaks of humiliation over
the way some people treat her in St. Louis, but her undocumented status leaves
little recourse.

Though it's a weekend, both her parents are working, because if they don't do
what they're told there may be no job to return to Monday, and there clearly is
no room to protest.

The growing number of people in this situation form a small minority but theirs
is perhaps the best-kept secret about immigration in St. Louis.

They're not the only ones who complain about discrimination at the workplace and
elsewhere. Such problems are sparking isolated calls for, and tentative steps
toward, a political voice for immigrants here.

A Transparent Wave

The closest the public discourse gets to immigration seems to be around isolated
incidents such as the murder of a Polish immigrant's daughter, the
drunken-driving fatality caused by a Mexican worker or the death of a Russian
motorist hit by a rock dropped from an overpass. Most recently, the Islamic
Center got several threatening calls after early reports of a possible Middle
Eastern link to the bombing in Oklahoma.

Not only the public seems unaware. St. Louis' 20 full-time immigration lawyers,
a large number for an area of this size, form an active panel within the local
bar association. Yet, says Chester Moyer, who runs the Immigration and
Naturalization Service office here, "I bet if you talked with 99 percent of the
lawyers here, they wouldn't know there's an immigration committee of lawyers."

Clayton lawyer Gene McNary says President George Bush appointed him commissioner
of the Immigration and Naturalization Service in 1989 partly because St. Louis
was perceived as having virtually no immigration, so McNary would bring a clean
slate.

An Attractive Area

A healthy economy here should draw more immigrants, whose arrival often is
linked to specific job offers, and refugees, parceled out across the country
based partly on which cities offer promising prospects.

Beyond that, given the political and social pressures that have fed Proposition
187 in California and copycat measures elsewhere denying benefits to immigrants,
the anonymity that marks immigration in St. Louis has an appeal to those seeking
peace and quiet.

"People come first to New York or Florida, California or Texas or Colorado, and
never think of the Midwest," says Chignoli, who runs the Hispanic Community
Social Action. "But when other people are pushing, they come here."

For similar reasons, immigrants who make St. Louis their first stop now tend to
stay here. A decade ago, many left as soon as they arrived, heading to states
thought to be more hospitable or offering more generous benefits.

The Human Side

Adapting to a new environment and healing the wounds that may linger from the
old can be wrenching.

Near Jefferson Avenue, an East African family huddles in a bare public housing
unit as night falls. Ominous noises and yells reverberate outside. The mother
wraps a protective hand around her children, unwilling to let them into the wild
society raging out there a society she says poses not only physical dangers but
threatens the values she has taught her children.

On the walls of the Bosnian Club inside an old South Vandeventer Avenue
warehouse hang several haunting paintings of unsmiling children with round,
vacant eyes. The artist is a young physician here just four months but already
sinking into despair. She walks around mouthing the words: "I must help Bosnian
children. Every family is tragedy. I am doctor."

If the very presence of immigrants in St. Louis borders on invisible, the
struggles they face form the second and even more hidden aspect of this
population. Those struggles can lead to explosive personal and family strains.

"A lot of them think their problems are solved when they come here but in many
ways their problems are just beginning," says Ron Klutho, a teacher who works
closely with refugee youngsters and their families.

The way individual immigrants adjust will determine their long-term impact on
their new home. But in places where immigration has become a red-hot topic,
debate has centered on numbers, eligibility for services and other matters of
immediate practical and political import.

St. Louis, which has manageable numbers, little hostility and no hysteria,
offers a hospitable setting for probing the human dimension.

And, the very silence that has surrounded the general issue of immigration here
makes a public focus on it all the more timely, suggests Bob Ubriaco, Webster
University specialist on immigration to the Midwest.

"Issues aren't at the visceral level yet, and once they reach that level people
and governments act through emotion," Ubriaco says.

Now, he contends, government and institutional policies can still be formulated
in a calm, non-polarized atmosphere.

LOAD-DATE: May 27, 1995

LANGUAGE: English

GRAPHIC: PHOTO, GRAPHIC, MAP; (1) Photo by Jerry Naunheim Jr./Post-Dispatch -
Russian refugees Alla Belogorogsky, her son, Paval, and her father, Aleg
Tchaouskine, arrive at Lambert Field last month to join relatives in Ballwin.
(2) Photo by Jerry Naunheim Jr./Post-Dispatch - Women pray at the Islamic Center
of Greater St. Louis, 3843 West Pine Boulevard. Many who worship at the center
are immigrants. (3) Photo by Jerry Naunheim Jr./Post-Dispatch - Antonio Capiz,
22, plays with his 6-month-old nephew, Juan Manuel Sanchez, in south St. Louis.
Ten family members from Mexico live in the apartment. They have two beds and the
crib, so some must sleep on the floor. (4) Photo by Jerry Naunheim
Jr./Post-Dispatch - Immigrants arrive for Sunday Mass celebrated in Vietnamese
at St. Pius V Church, 3310 South Grand Boulevard. (5) Map by Tom
Borgman/Post-Dispatch of the South Grand Boulevard area. Why South Grand? Anna
Crosslin, director of the International Institute of Metropolitan St. Louis,
often hears the question. "People say, 'Gee, I don't understand South Grand.
It's just sort of risen up.'" How it did tells part of the tale of foreigners in
St. Louis. In 1981 the institute, seeking bigger quarters to handle a growing
flow of refugees, left its midtown office and bought a building on the South
Side's Park Avenue. It began placing refugees on South Grand, the area's main
thoroughfare just two blocks to the east. Grand offered affordable housing and
numerous bus routes, so refugees could easily attend language classes. Because
the institute is the area's biggest resettlement agency and isn't tied to any
specific ethnic groups, a large and diverse population of refugees grew around
South Grand. Stores and restaurants followed, as did health centers and
churches. Map details the South Grand area and highlights the following:
International Institute, Faru (Int'l Folk Art), Mekong Restaurant, Cafe Mangia,
King & I Restaurant, Cafe de Manila, Grand Chinese Cuisine, Pho Grand,
Mid-Eastern Market, Cho Grand Trading, Trang Fashions, Rasha's Beauty Supplies,
Pho Saigon Restaurant, Thai Ngoc Jewelry, Van Phong Bac Si Thanh (Doctor), Jay
Int'l Food, Siete Mares Mexican/Nicaraguan Restaurant, Than Nhan Restaurant, Thu
Do Hair Design, Kim Thanh Gift Shop, Tan My Bakery/Restaurant, Kim Chi Jewelry,
Vietnam/Hong Kong Video Rentals, Chim's Imports (Martial Arts), St. Pius V
Church, Tower Grove Park. (6) Graphic/Line Chart by Tom Borgman/Post-Dispatch -
Number of Immigrants/Refugees: Selected groups in the St. Louis area Mexicans
      14,000 Chinese         7,500 Germans         5,000 Koreans         5,000
Vietnamese      4,705 Indians         4,000 Former USSR     3,200 Filipinos
      3,000 Canadians       3,000 British         3,000 Pakistanis      2,500
Italians        2, 200 Palestinians    2,000 Polish          2,000 Japanese
       1,400 Romanians       1,000 Greeks            880 Austrians         850
Bosnians          825 Iranians          800 Laotians          700 Cubans
           700 Hungarians        700 Spanish           600 Irish             600
Thais             530 French            520 Czechs            510 Nigerians
        500 Ethiopians        430 Eritreans         400 Lebanese          400
Iraqis            360 Haitians          350 Israelis          350 Argentinians
     340 Malaysians        320 Serbs             300 Croatians         300
Colombians        300 Panamanians       250 Guatemalans       250 Jamaicans
        240 Peruvians         235 Chileans          225 Somalis           200
Turks             200 Venezualans       200 Bolivians         160 Bulgarians
       150 Brazilians        140 S. Africans       140 Cambodians        130
Ecuadorans        100 Jordanians        100 These are Post-Dispatch estimates
based on census figures and discussions with demographers, immigrant/refugee
associations, resettlement agencies and government officials. The figures
include only people from abroad, not descendants born here. Some nationality
numbers, particularly from Europe, reflect an immigration in the immediate
post-World War II years, rather than a continuing flow. Puerto Ricans, estimated
at 1,500 here, are not included because they are U.S. citizens, but they face
some of the linguistic and cultural adjustments of the other groups. The
distriction among Lebanese, Palestinians and Jordanians can be arbitrary. Story
by Philip Dine Photos by Jerry Naunheim Jr. Of the Post-Dispatch

TYPE: PROFILE IMMIGRANTS IN ST. LOUIS

                  Copyright 1995 St. Louis Post-Dispatch, Inc.


                              166 of 308 DOCUMENTS

                       St. Louis Post-Dispatch (Missouri)

                 June 12, 1995, Monday, FIVE STAR LIFT Edition

OLD ARGUMENTS ON IMMIGRATION

BYLINE: Stephen Chapman Copyright Creators Syndicate Inc.

SECTION: EDITORIAL; Pg. 7B

LENGTH: 750 words

STEPHEN CHAPMAN COLUMN

DATELINE: CHICAGO


Popular fear of immigration is as old as America, but it is not growing feeble
with age. In fact, anti-immigrant feeling is clearly gaining strength. Americans
will soon have to decide whether the noble tradition of welcoming newcomers will
be preserved or repudiated.

Plenty of people think it is time to pull up the drawbridge, and the next
Republican presidential nominee may be one of them. Both California Gov. Pete
Wilson - who advocates getting tough with illegal immigrants - and conservative
commentator Patrick Buchanan - who doesn't like foreign arrivals even if they're
legal - hope to make it a winning theme in their campaigns.

A new book by conservative journalist Peter Brimelow, "Alien Nation," says the
influx of outsiders is changing the nation's ethnic makeup at a rate that
invites catastrophe. As a result, he predicts, 21st-century Americans will face
bitter racial conflict, repression and even national disintegration.

A congressional commission headed by former Rep. Barbara Jordan, created to make
it politically easier for Congress to deal with the issue, has chosen to side
with the exclusionists. Its report calls for reducing the annual volume of
newcomers by one-third.    That sets the stage for a battle in Congress, where
Republicans are split on the issue.

Given the prevalence of simple xenophobia and bigotry, those who favor curbing
immigration may not need facts to win the political fight. But they insist that
some important developments argue for the changes they want. They make the
following claims:

The flood of immigrants is too large to absorb. Actually, the number of
newcomers relative to the total population is quite low by historical standards
- about 3.2 immigrants for every 1,000 Americans. That's about one-third the
level in the early part of this century and well below the average over the last
century and a half. By American standards, we are experiencing a lull, not a
storm.

The skill and education of immigrants is declining. Not so. University of
Maryland scholar Julian Simon, author of "The Economic Consequences of
Immigration," notes that the proportion of immigrants with less than eight years
of education has fallen, while the percentage with 16 years or more has risen.
High-tech industries abound with Ph.Ds from all over the world.

Immigrants are taking jobs from natives, particularly unskilled blacks.
Economist Robert Topel of the University of Chicago says the evidence is clear
that blacks are not worse off due to immigration. One study found that states
with more immigrants generally have lower unemployment rates than states with
fewer. If all the Koreans and Arabs left tomorrow, black Americans would lose
grocery stores, but they wouldn't gain jobs.

Recent immigrants are prone to go on welfare and commit crimes. There is some
abuse of the welfare system - particularly by refugees, who are immediately
eligible for public assistance, and by elderly immigrants. Congress is already
moving to restrict eligibility for the elderly, and there is no reason it
couldn't restrict it for all immigrants. But overall, newcomers are about as
likely to become a public burden as natives. As for crime, it is mostly
home-grown. Many cities with large immigrant populations (San Jose and Anaheim,
Calif.) have low crime rates, while many violent places (Atlanta, St. Louis)
have relatively few foreign-born residents.

The foreigners coming today are racially different from natives, generating
ethnic strife. This ignores 200 years of U.S. experience at digesting supposedly
indigestible groups. Brimelow wonders if we can cope with so many Asians and
Hispanics, just as Americans of Northern European ancestry worried about the
dusky Mediterraneans who came a century ago. But Asians have assimilated so well
that they are jokingly known as "honorary white people." Hispanics, far from
adopting an "us against them" posture, are more likely to identify with whites
than with other Latinos. This is the stuff of racial war?

The doomsayers hold the perennial American belief that yesterday's immigrants
were a boon but today's are a burden. They fail to grasp that immigration is to
this nation what an underground spring is to a freshwater lake: a perpetual
source of nourishment and renewal. It is part of the reason America is one of
the freest, most inventive and most dynamic societies in the world. It has
served us well throughout our history and will continue to do so, if we let it.

LOAD-DATE: June 13, 1995

LANGUAGE: English

                  Copyright 1995 St. Louis Post-Dispatch, Inc.


                              167 of 308 DOCUMENTS

                       St. Louis Post-Dispatch (Missouri)

                June 22, 1995, Thursday, FIVE STAR LIFT Edition

A NATIONAL IDENTITY CARD COULD LEAD TO OTHER GOVERNMENT CONTROLS

BYLINE: Thomas Sowell Copyright Creators Syndicate Inc.

SECTION: EDITORIAL; Pg. 13B

LENGTH: 828 words

THOMAS SOWELL COLUMN

DATELINE: PALO ALTO, CALIF.


Few things illustrate the difference between liberals and conservatives as
clearly as the approach taken on immigration by liberal Democratic Sen. Dianne
Feinstein and conservative Republican presidential candidate Pat Buchanan.

Buchanan would act directly against immigrants by a moratorium on even legal
immigration and by fortifying the borders. Whatever the merits or demerits of
this approach, it focuses its attention directly on immigrants.

Feinstein advocates a national identity card that all Americans would be
required to have and that all employers would be required to see to prevent
hiring illegal aliens. It is the classic liberal response of using a particular
problem created by particular people to expand the government's power over other
people. The same pattern is seen in liberal responses to crimes committed by
people with firearms by cracking down on the far larger number of people with
firearms who are committing no crimes.

Nothing polarizes the political left and right like the idea of a national
identity card. Yet it is not obvious why, in principle, this should be a
liberal-versus-conservative issue. Everyone should be against people escaping
personal responsibility for their actions by pretending to be somebody else or
by relocating to places where their sordid past is not known, thereby permitting
them to victimize more innocent people.

Some hard-nosed conservatives have urged that sex offenders in particular be
identified and not be allowed to escape their past and continue to prey on
unsuspecting neighbors, or those neighbors' children. Would not a national
identity card also prevent other kinds of criminals, deadbeat dads and other
parasites from escaping their past and jeopardizing other people's futures?

Despite the many potential benefits of a national identity card, the painful
fact is that battle lines are drawn over this issue for one reason: We cannot
trust the government in general, and liberals in particular, to stop at a
national identity card to be used to enforce immigration laws or to deter crime.

Control is the name of the game for liberals, even when they call it
"compassion." A national identity card would not only permit greater government
snooping into people's private lives, but the information gathered would almost
inevitably lead to more laws forcing more people to do more things the way the
politicians want them done. It is a down payment on totalitarianism.

Lack of trust is not some purely psychological reaction or a paranoia bred by
militias or talk-show hosts. History is full of reasons to distrust governments
in general and the political left in particular.

Most Americans probably have no more objection in principle to a national
identity card than to some form of gun control. It is only in practice that we
know that it will never stop there.   Put differently, many of the benefits that
we could get from many policies must be forfeited because of the greater dangers
created by the untrustworthiness of those who believe in big government as a
means of imposing their own superior wisdom and virtue on others.

At the very moment when the liberal media are blaming "anti-government" feeling
for such things as the Oklahoma City bombing and blaming conservative talk show
hosts for promoting such feelings, the Supreme Court of the United States has
given a free home demonstration of betrayal of trust by striking down
term-limits legislation passed by overwhelming majorities of voters.

Nothing in the Constitution forbids the states to enact such legislation.
Moreover, the 10th Amendment clearly sets forth the principle that the federal
government can do only what it is specifically authorized to do, while the
states and the people can do whatever they are not forbidden to do. But the
learned justices decided to turn this principle upside down - perhaps they
should call it the 01 Amendment now - and claim that the states need specific
authorization to act.

All this dishonesty served only to impose their preferences and prejudices on
the rest of us. Instead of saying where in the Constitution such laws as term
limits are forbidden, the Supreme Court majority quoted previous decisions by
their predecessors, who also made it up as they went along.

So long as what the justices made up was what the liberal media liked, they went
along too. Those justices who think that the Constitution means what it says -
Clarence Thomas and Antonin Scalia being the most prominent of these on the
present court - are treated as fuddy-duddies and party-poopers.

Betrayals of trust from the bench, from Congress and from presidents have spread
profound distrust. If ever we are to gain the benefits that would be possible in
a society where we could trust one another more, that will have to come from
"responsible" government officials showing that they are worthy of more trust.
It will not come from scapegoating talk-show hosts.

LOAD-DATE: June 23, 1995

LANGUAGE: English

                  Copyright 1995 St. Louis Post-Dispatch, Inc.


                              168 of 308 DOCUMENTS

                       St. Louis Post-Dispatch (Missouri)

                 June 23, 1995, Friday, FIVE STAR LIFT Edition

BRIEFS

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 17A

LENGTH: 264 words

BRIEFS/REGION COLUMN


ILLINOIS LEGAL HELP FOR POOR State Bar Group Gives Judge Check For Project

Free legal advice for immigrants and for the needy are among the projects that
benefit from the Illinois State Bar Foundation, says Circuit Judge Milton S.
Wharton of East St. Louis.

Wharton presented a check this week to the Immigration Project to help
immigrants deal with problems.m

Chicago area agencies have been the main beneficiaries of the foundation in the
past, but southern Illinois groups have begun applying for help, Wharton said.
CONGRESS Durbin Calls For Probe Of Friendly Fire Deaths

Rep. Richard Durbin, D-Springfield, called Thursday for a congressional probe of
last year's "friendly fire" attack on two U.S. military helicopters over Iraq in
which 26 people were killed.

Durbin noted that two victims - Army Sgt. Michael S. Robinson of Godfrey and
Army Specialist Mark A. "Tony" Ellner of Red Bud, Ill. - were from the Metro
East area and that their families deserved an explanation.

Durbin noted in the letter that Tuesday's court-martial acquittal of Air Force
Capt. Jim Wang, the only person tried in connection with the April 14, 1994,
incident, left many questions unanswered. MADISON COUNTY Officials Urge
Businesses To Help Make Less Trash

Madison County officials are urging area businesses to take advantage of a
federal Environmental Protection Agency program called Waste Wi$ e that provides
ideas for waste reduction, recycling and cost savings.

Fran Mazenko, Madison County commercial recycling coordinator, can give
information at (618) 692-7040.

LOAD-DATE: June 24, 1995

LANGUAGE: English

                  Copyright 1995 St. Louis Post-Dispatch, Inc.


                              169 of 308 DOCUMENTS

                       St. Louis Post-Dispatch (Missouri)

                 June 25, 1995, Sunday, FIVE STAR LIFT Edition

RX FOR REFUGEES: SENSITIVITY TO THEIR NEEDS

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 5B

LENGTH: 375 words


Some health providers and the St. Louis public schools are trying to deal with
the emotional and psychological needs of refugees. A sampling:

The New American Program, founded in 1989 at Jewish Hospital and run by Barbara
Bogomolov, is the most comprehensive health care program here for refugees or
immigrants. Each year 1,000 refugees, mostly Russian and Bosnian, come for
medical treatment. Some get counseling to deal with war trauma or with the
depression that comes as they realize their past stature may be gone forever.
Each day 200 people call, some of them elderly and lonely refugees who just want
to hear Russian.

Sister Mary Louise Stubbs helped found the Vietnamese health clinic four months
ago. By early June its popularity prompted a move to roomier quarters at 3535
South Jefferson Avenue. The clinic, open Thursday nights, examines patients,
prepares their social and medical histories, then refers them to doctors,
clinics or hospitals and provides bilingual records and interpreters. One goal
of this archdiocesan pilot program is to get refugees into the mainstream health
system, avoiding the dependency Stubbs observed when working with Hispanic
immigrants in Texas.

Argentinian-born William Chignoli spoke wistfully four months ago of his "dream"
- a Hispanic health center. Now it's set to open in the fall on Ohio Avenue two
half-days a week, in partnership with Family Care Health Centers. Staffing will
come from St. Louis University Medical School and Deaconness Hospital. Chignoli
says Mexican immigrants often stay away from mainstream health care out of fear.
He plans to refer patients with personal or family struggles to a cross-cultural
counseling ministry he founded.

As social worker for the 1,200 English as Second Language students in city
schools, Priscilla Schulz helps refugee and immigrant children open up about
their emotions and frustrations, which come out in drawings and nightmares. In
March, after a fight between a few Vietnamese and Bosnian students, she held a
two-week "traumatic event debriefing" for Bosnians, hoping to "plant some seeds
that they don't have to be in so much psychological pain." She was stunned to
find how many children, especially boys, had been tortured.

LOAD-DATE: June 30, 1995

LANGUAGE: English

GRAPHIC: PHOTO; (1) Photo by Karen Elshout/Post-Dispatch - Dr. Phuong Nguyen, a
volunteer at the Vietnamese health clinic, discusses the patient list with
Sister Rosario Hoang, who supervises the clinic. (2) Photo by Karen
Elshout/Post-Dispatch - Cassandra Hill and Bosnian refugee Anela Islamovic
became inseparable during the school year at Lafayette Elementary School, after
being paired as part of a program to help refugees adjust and to expand the
horizons of American students. (3) Photo Headshot of William Chignoli

TYPE: PROFILE IMMIGRANTS IN ST. LOUIS

                  Copyright 1995 St. Louis Post-Dispatch, Inc.


                              170 of 308 DOCUMENTS

                       St. Louis Post-Dispatch (Missouri)

                  July 2, 1995, Sunday, FIVE STAR LIFT Edition

IN THE BEGINNING, IMMIGRANTS CREATED . . . HOLLYWOOD

BYLINE: Bob Thomas Of the Associated Press

SECTION: EVERYDAY MAGAZINE; Pg. 3D

LENGTH: 1123 words

DATELINE: LOS ANGELES


THEY CAME from towns with names such as Minsk, Laupheim, Tulchva and Risce. Or
they were the sons of immigrants from other Eastern European places. All were
Jewish.

With little education and much chutzpah, they muscled into the nickelodeon
business, bought more theaters, then started making movies to supply their
chains. Soon they built nationwide giants producing, distributing and exhibiting
motion pictures.

An industry was born.

In the beginning, Thomas A. Edison tried to control his invention by forming the
Motion Picture Patents Co. in 1909. Film making would be limited to seven
companies licensed by the trust. Theater operators would be assessed for use of
Edison's projectors and would be charged standard fees for renting films.

The Patents company also contracted with Eastman Kodak to sell raw stock only to
licensed firms. The company's demands were enforced by bands of detectives and
lawyers.

Such high-handed methods aroused the hundreds of film makers and exhibitors who
had crowded into a business that offered quick riches and an eager audience.
When the trust began confiscating the equipment of movie makers, many moved to
Southern California. If the enforcers followed them there, they could hide their
film across the border in Mexico.

Carl Laemmle and William Fox helped lead the rebellion.

A gnomish German immigrant, Laemmle defied the trust with his Independent Motion
Picture Co. (IMP). He virtually invented the star system and glamorized his top
actors with clever use of publicity. The Patents company seemed unable to stop
him, and his example prompted others to revolt.

Fox, born Wilhelm Fried in Hungary, left the garment trade for nickelodeons.
Like other pioneers, he soon discovered that big money lay in making and
distributing movies. Combatting the Patents monopoly, he formed his own film
exchange, then branched into production.

With the election of Woodrow Wilson in 1912, the U.S. government moved against
the Patents Co. monopoly, which finally was outlawed in 1917. By that time
motion pictures had become a wide-open business in which only the strongest
survived.

"They were all tough," says Sam Jaffe, 94, a former producer and agent who knew
and worked with all of the industry leaders, from Adolph Zukor to Lew Wasserman.

Their toughness came from the ghettos of Eastern Europe and the streets of New
York. But, Jaffe added, these men had other qualities that suited them for
motion pictures:

"They were uneducated, but they had an uncanny instinct for what the world
needed in the way of entertainment. Since they came from common beginnings, they
had a feel for the desires of the public."

The founders also possessed intense patriotism for their adopted land. Having
known the pogroms of Russia and other eastern countries, they cherished the
freedoms of America and celebrated them in films. During the two world wars and
other national crises, movie people responded as did no other industry.

Hungarian-born Adolph Zukor seemed the least likely of industry giants. A tiny
man with a benign face, he competed with sometimes ruthless intensity. He drove
many a rival out of business, notably Lewis J. Selznick, father of David O.
Selznick, who made "Gone With the Wind."

After founding Famous Players, which later became Paramount Pictures, Zukor
brought Broadway plays and stars to the screen. In 1916, he hired Mary Pickford
for an amazing $ 10,000 a week and a $ 300,000 bonus.

Zukor built a huge theater chain so Paramount movies would always have a place
for exhibition.

Louis B. Mayer was also a small man and equally ruthless. Born in Russia, an
immigrant to Canada, then the United States, Mayer moved from the junk business
to operating the biggest theater chain in New England. When he started producing
films, he decreed they would be of the highest quality.

Mayer maintained that policy when a merger created Metro-Goldwyn-Mayer. He and
his brilliant production chief, Irving Thalberg, shared an uncanny knack for
discovering stars. By the 1930s, MGM could boast of having "more stars than
there are in the heavens."

Mayer wielded absolute power over the Culver City studio. He even deposed
Thalberg when the ailing producer took a rest trip to Europe. But Mayer himself
was fired by his New York bosses in 1951.

The Warner family came from Poland. Some of them were born in Europe, others in
the New Land. Jack, the youngest of 12 children, was born in Canada during one
of the family's many travels. They finally landed in Youngstown, Ohio, where
they ran a butcher shop and bicycle business before discovering the movies.

Sam Warner was the most gifted of the brothers, and he led the struggling
company into sound pictures. Physical ills aggravated by overwork led to his
death in 1927, one day before the opening of "The Jazz Singer" signaled the end
of the silent era.

Warner Bros. flourished in the 1930s and '40s with gangster movies, splashy
musicals, biographies and patriotic films. Jack Warner operated the studio, and
the oldest brother, Harry, handled finances in New York. They were constantly at
odds.

In 1955, Jack tricked his brothers Harry and Albert into selling their holdings
while he managed to hold onto his. Jack maintained control of the company until
he sold out in 1967.

Harry and Jack Cohn emerged from the rough and tumble of New York's immigrant
world. Both worked for Carl Laemmle, and together with Joe Brandt formed C.B.C.
Film Sales Co. in 1920. The name was changed to Columbia after the trade started
referring to C.B.C. as Corned Beef and Cabbage. Harry was dispatched to
Hollywood's Poverty Row to make movies on a tattered shoestring. He devised new
methods of thrift, such as painting backdrops on both sides of the canvas and
staging chases to the top of a hill, to catch the last rays of a sunset.

Largely because of the populist films of Frank Capra, Columbia Pictures grew to
major status in the '30s. Like the Warners, the two Cohns battled fiercely, but
they never separated. Harry Cohn became the mythic figure of the studio boss,
respected by some, detested by many. A crowd attended his 1958 funeral on a
Columbia sound stage. This caused Red Skelton to remark on his TV show: "Give
the public what they want and they'll turn out for it."

Other autocrats ruled in the big-studio era, notably Darryl F. Zanuck of 20th
Century Fox and the fiercely independent Samuel Goldwyn. All were gamblers,
whether playing high-stakes poker and roulette or spending millions on daring
films and new stars.

The stakes are higher in these times, but none of the MBA princes of today's
film companies can ever hope to wield the power of the immigrant kings of
yesteryear.

LOAD-DATE: July 3, 1995

LANGUAGE: English

GRAPHIC: PHOTO; Photo - Louis B. Mayer (left), Carl Laemmle and Oscar in 1930.
Photo Headshots of: Jack Warner in 1947. William Fox in 1952. Adolph Zukor in
1953. Harry Cohn in the '40s.

                  Copyright 1995 St. Louis Post-Dispatch, Inc.


                              171 of 308 DOCUMENTS

                       St. Louis Post-Dispatch (Missouri)

                 July 4, 1995, Tuesday, FIVE STAR LIFT Edition

VISA POLICY FOR FOREIGN DOCTORS MARKED BY CHANGE, CONFUSION

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 6A

LENGTH: 607 words


During the last 1 1/2 years, more than 900 foreign doctors got visas to practice
in areas of the United States that have shortages of doctors.

That's about a third of the 28-year total of doctors who got special visas since
the federal government began granting them in 1965.

Under immigration laws, visas can be given to young foreign doctors after
they've trained in internal medicine, surgery or other specialties at American
hospitals.

From 1965 through 1993, about 3,000 foreign doctors obtained visas and remained
in practice in the United States - 50 of them in Missouri, says George S.
Newman, Clayton attorney and member of the board of governors of the American
Association of Immigration Lawyers.

Until recently, most doctors got the visas from the military or the Veterans
Administration to help staff VA or military hospitals.

But a chronic shortage of doctors grew elsewhere in this country, particularly
in remote rural towns that rarely attract graduates of American medical schools.

So in 1994, the U.S. Department of Agriculture began awarding visas to foreign
doctors to practice in rural towns.

Months later, the U.S. Department of Housing and Urban Development also started
granting visas to foreign doctors to practice in inner city areas.

The need is real. Last year, the U.S. Department of Health and Human Services
ruled that 76 counties in Missouri and 85 counties in Illinois have moderate to
severe shortages of doctors.

That's a majority of counties in both largely rural states.

Nationwide, thousands of counties have the same rankings.

But officials at Health and Human Services oppose giving visas to foreign
doctors to practice here after their hospital training. The agency gives the
visas only to doctors who want to do medical research.

Howard Davis is an economist with the Health and Human Services. In a recent
telephone interview, he said that his agency has been consistent in supporting
immigration laws regarding foreign doctors - insisting that they return home
after hospital training.

The intent of the visa program is to sharpen the skills of foreign medical
school graduates, then take them back home, Davis said.

Once they've completed their hospital training, law requires them to return home
for at least two years. "We want U.S. immigration law to be consistent," said
Davis.

He and other HHS officials think that the law has been used as a stepping stone
to immigration.

Last year, Congress amended immigration laws to permit all 50 states to grant up
to 20 visas annually to foreign doctors. Now that the states can grant visas,
it's time for federal agencies to stop granting visas, HHS officials say.

But the government's policy ignores the ongoing doctor shortages in rural areas
and cities, critics say.

"HHS is responsible for this country's health care needs, but it's never come up
with an alternative to using foreign doctors in areas of need," says Newman who
represents doctors in applying for visas.

"I agree with HHS that visa programs aren't a long-term solution to our chronic
doctor shortages, but they help," he said.

Meanwhile, Missouri has launched a scholarship program to attract U.S.-born
physicians to rural areas.

Last year, Missouri began paying medical school tuition for promising students
from rural counties.

After graduation, the students are expected to return to their home counties for
at least two years.

So far, 20 students have signed up for scholarships from some of the 76
underserved counties ranked as having shortages of doctors.

Nobody from Washington County was enrolled in the new program.

LOAD-DATE: July 5, 1995

LANGUAGE: English

                  Copyright 1995 St. Louis Post-Dispatch, Inc.


                              172 of 308 DOCUMENTS

                       St. Louis Post-Dispatch (Missouri)

                 July 30, 1995, Sunday, FIVE STAR LIFT Edition

BLACKS RESENT KOREAN COMPETITION; ETHNIC TURF DISPUTE SIMMERS OVER BEAUTY
PRODUCTS AIMED AT AFRICAN-AMERICANS

BYLINE: Philip Dine Of the Post-Dispatch Staff

SECTION: WAR PAGE; Pg. 1B

LENGTH: 1537 words


BLACK MERCHANTS WONDER why so many Korean immigrants have targeted their
neighborhoods to sell hair and beauty supplies, squeezing them out of one of the
few trades they dominated.

"They've come in and taken away a market that's not rightfully theirs,"
complains Winford Arps. He says his string of five beauty supply stores here
folded in the late 1980s because of Korean competition.

Stung by such comments, Koreans respond that they offer a variety of goods at
low prices in neighborhoods where consumers often have little selection. They're
kind to black customers and employees even when tested, the immigrants maintain.

"We serve them in very dangerous areas," says Kay-Song Lee, publisher of a
Korean-language journal for the beauty trade. "No one wants to serve them there,
not white people. But Korean people take a risk."

The battle over the $ 25 million black beauty supply business, pitting
immigrants against an American minority, has been waged in north St. Louis city
and county, the city's central corridor and East St. Louis.

Like much else related to immigration in St. Louis, it has gone largely unnoted
in the absence of major confrontation. Yet tension simmers, a reflection of
broader strains nationwide in relations between blacks and immigrants.

Blacks express concern about not being hired in large numbers by immigrant-owned
businesses and about entry-level jobs traditionally held by blacks going to
those who have just arrived in this country. Immigrants, who for various reasons
often build businesses in poorer areas, sometimes begin with negative
stereotypes of blacks and say they find those reinforced.

A decade ago, at least nine blacks had beauty supply businesses in the St. Louis
region, some of them thriving chains. Like preaching and burying people, the
beauty business was something blacks boasted that they did for themselves, a
source of pride as well as income and jobs. Today, the area has 30 Korean-owned
beauty-supply shops, dominated by two local chains with 15 stores between them,
and Koreans control more than 80 percent of the black beauty trade. Three black
shops are hanging on.

'Just Kind Of Gave Up'

On one end of the first floor of the old Sears building at 1408 North
Kingshighway, Arps, a stolid, low-key man of 51, cuts clients' hair in his
salon, Sapphire's Scissors.

He seethes when he talks of how he and his colleagues were rapidly driven into
the ground.

"Everybody just kind of gave up and went away," he says. "Nothing else you could
do."

As he sees it, the Koreans made a focused effort to capture the black beauty
market: They pooled resources and got credit long denied blacks, then bought in
bulk and sold as cheaply as needed to undercut longtime shop owners who depended
on traditional margins of profit to survive. The Koreans compensated for any
losses by selling imported trinkets and T-shirts in their shops.

They now take the money they make in black neighborhoods, Arps complains, and
spend it in affluent west St. Louis County, where most of them live.

And they hire blacks mainly as "window dressing" or to help speak to customers
when language problems arise, he contends.

Arps gestures to the Nu-Fashion Beauty Products store on the first floor's south
side, and speaks with derision of how the owners locked in 14 employees as they
worked in the third-floor warehouse.

"That's how they treat black people," Arps scoffs.

In his office a few yards away, Sun Moo Chyu says he locked the doors to curb
inside thefts. He stopped doing that a few months ago after someone called the
Occupational Safety and Health Administration.

His wife, Kyung Chyu, says running stores in poor urban areas is tough. But she
maintains her family has good relations with most blacks, saying that after the
Los Angeles riots in 1992 things were tense but those who knew the couple helped
avert violence.

The Chyus were among early Korean immigrants here in a population now up to
5,000. Sun Moo is an engineering graduate of Washington University, where his
wife did medical research. That provided the capital for the bulk buying power
and varied merchandise that allowed low prices and drew customers, they say.

Now, their warehouse supplies their seven beauty stores here plus stores others
own around the Midwest. They do close to $ 10 million in sales a year - which,
they say, suggests customer satisfaction.

"Others avoid the black areas," she says, "but if you really get in, they're
nice people."

'King' Is Magic

Taewan Cho arrived in Missouri 13 years ago at age 40 with almost no money,
little English and the most rudimentary of goals: Establish a business so he
could bring his wife and children from South Korea to join him.

A random gleaning of information pointed him on his way. He learned that the
average black woman uses as many hair-care products as six white women. Black
areas offered lower rents and less discrimination against immigrants than white
business districts. Driving through nearby states, he found fewer beauty supply
stores listed in St. Louis than in Omaha.

He had his niche, and his city. Soon he had a name: King's Beauty. "King is a
very popular name in the African-American community. If I say King, then
everybody's going to pick up that name like this," he says smiling, to a snap of
his fingers.

Just about everybody did, over time. Living in an apartment with no bed, no
furniture, no television - only a blanket to sleep under on the floor - he
managed to pay the bills at his little store on Eighth and Pine streets
downtown.

Today, Cho sits atop the beauty retail business here with eight King's Beauty
stores and two more planned this year. His wholesale operation supplies stores
nationwide. He's among the top 10 U.S. beauty goods distributors, No. 3 among
Koreans. His business, headquartered in Rock Hill, employs 54 and has more than
$ 10 million a year in sales.

On his walls hang pictures of Mayor Freeman Bosley Jr. and former Senate
candidate Alan Wheat, for whom Cho headed fund-raising drives among Koreans. He
did so partly to spur better black-Korean relations, says Cho, who also does
charitable work with black organizations.

Yet in the past couple of years he's been picketed over the treatment of a black
employee, strict exchange policies and the selling of items usually available
only at hair salons.

Russ Little II's Afro World on Natural Bridge Road sells human hair to black
hair-weaving companies and a variety of African-inspired fashions and isn't
directly affected by the Korean competition. Like Arps, he admires the business
acumen that catapulted Cho to his current position.

But he deplores the way Cho and the Chyus and others targeted a select market.

"Asians right now," he says, "are coming over, and they're making a beeline to
get to the black community to open up stores.

"If blacks said, 'We're going to target Italians' and went to the Hill, believe
me the outrage of the leaders of that community would be every bit as intense."

'Your Shop Is Like Family'

Blacks and Koreans know too little about one another, says Kay-Song Lee, who
publishes the "Beauty Times" in Maryland Heights.

The 104-page, tabloid-size monthly is the only national journal aimed at Korean
beauty suppliers and has 6,000 subscribers, including 40 here. Koreans have 80
percent of the $ 2.5 billion black beauty market nationwide, Lee says.

His 2-year-old publication covers the trade but also runs articles on black
history and culture - partly because Korean immigrants see mainly blighted black
areas - and prods Koreans to get closer to the black communities they serve.

Korean society's homogeneity and isolation breed skepticism about foreigners,
Lee says. He stresses to his readers that blacks frequently complain of being
closely watched as they shop and that those who shoplift are "very minimal
compared to the whole African-American community."

Treating employees well, even forgiving those who steal once, can create good
will, he says.

"I tell them, 'Your shop is like family. You are the owner, so you are like the
father and mother, and you have to treat your black employees like sons and
daughters. . . . The love will overflow to the black community, and later your
employees will protect your shop if anything happens.' "

He suggests to Korean merchants here that because they make money from black
areas but live in West County, "why don't you return some money to them - donate
to churches, hire black employees, choose black suppliers for goods."

Building bridges will allow Koreans to tell an inspiring story, Lee says - one
of 16-hour work days and of sacrificing all for their children's future, of
success in a demanding new society.

Lee hopes that more understanding will build harmony.

Arps wonders. He fears Koreans plan to enter the black hair salon business next,
citing questions by Korean beauty supply merchants about how he runs his salon
and interviews of graduates of his Excella Beauty College.

If that happens, he says, he and others won't passively accept their fate again
but will compete as fiercely as necessary to keep that end of the beauty
business.

LOAD-DATE: July 30, 1995

LANGUAGE: English

GRAPHIC: PHOTO; (1) Color Photo by Scott Dine/Post-Dispatch - Korean immigrant
Taewan Cho has in a decade become one of the nation's top suppliers of beauty
supplies aimed at black customers. Cho is president of the local Korean Chamber
of Commerce. (2) Color Photo by Scott Dine/Post-Dispatch - Winford Arps cleans
up in his salon, Sapphire's Scissors. Arps says his five beauty supply stores
here folded in the late 1980s because of Korean competition. He's upset that
Koreans made a focused effort to capture the black beauty market. (3) Photo by
Scott Dine/Post-Dispatch - Kay-Song Lee, publisher of a Korean-language journal
for the beauty trade, says Koreans provide a service to black consumers by
offering a variety of goods at low prices. He also urges Korean merchants to get
more involved in the communities they serve.

TYPE: PROFILE IMMIGRANTS IN ST. LOUIS

                  Copyright 1995 St. Louis Post-Dispatch, Inc.


                              173 of 308 DOCUMENTS

                       St. Louis Post-Dispatch (Missouri)

                 July 30, 1995, Sunday, FIVE STAR LIFT Edition

POLITICAL POWER IS NOT ALWAYS FIRST PRIORITY FOR NEW IMMIGRANTS; BUT,OBSERVER
SAYS, WHEN THESE GROUPS TAKE AN INTEREST IN POLITICS, 'THEY'LL DO IT BIG TIME'

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 5B

LENGTH: 373 words


IMMIGRANTS AND refugees have little political voice here. That may be changing
for some groups, as they tackle issues from public safety to professional
discrimination.

For others, public engagement seems far off.

Excluding Asian-Americans from St. Louis' minority contractors program last
summer was unjust, say members of the Asian-American coalition. City officials
included blacks, women and Hispanics, but the mayor said he knew of no
discrimination against Asian-Americans.

Yet as the coalition meets in Korean immigrant Hye Suk "Kimmie" Foster's West
County home, several members accept part of the blame. "We'll be classified as a
minority if we go out and fight for it," says T.C. Peng of the Organization of
Chinese-Americans. "If we don't, we won't be."

Representatives of Chinese, Korean, Filipino and Japanese immigrants and
Vietnamese refugees formed the group five years ago. Sitting around a table in
Foster's basement, they speak of their conservative character, of not asking for
anything, of pride.

"But in this country, your pride only goes so far," Peng observes, to nods. "You
have to be vocal. People have to hear you."

After making a five-hour tour of the "Latin Quarter" in south St. Louis, Luis
Trabanco pauses. He visited bustling markets and small apartments where Mexican
immigrants sleep five or six to a room. He met with workers who stay on the job
through illness or injury for fear of being fired. He talked with people who
hesitate to go to police or apply for subsidized apartments.

They are too immersed in feeding their families to consider abstractions like
power or representation, says Trabanco, a Cuban native who owns La Tropicana
market.

"Their needs right now are food, shelter and clothing. They don't think, 'I
don't have a ward politician I can talk to.' And since they're on the outside,
they're a little leery of whom they open up to."

Visit them in five years, when they don't have to work seven days a week and can
take a deep breath, and you'll see a different picture, he says.

"When this group realizes that if they organize politically they can do
something for their community, they'll do it big time - and ward politics will
come back to St. Louis."

LOAD-DATE: July 30, 1995

LANGUAGE: English

TYPE: PROFILE IMMIGRANTS IN ST. LOUIS

                  Copyright 1995 St. Louis Post-Dispatch, Inc.


                              174 of 308 DOCUMENTS

                       St. Louis Post-Dispatch (Missouri)

                 August 30, 1995, Wednesday, THREE STAR Edition

1 IN 11 RESIDENTS ARE FOREIGN-BORN, CENSUS DATA SHOW

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 7A

LENGTH: 339 words

DATELINE: WASHINGTON


U.S. residents who were born in another country made up 8.7 percent of the
population last year, the highest proportion of immigrants since World War II, a
new Census Bureau study shows.

That means that 22.6 million people - almost one in 11 U.S. residents - are
foreign-born, and one-third of them live in California, said the study, released
Monday. One-fifth of the immigrants, or 4.5 million people, arrived in the
United States in the last five years.

The 8.7 percentage of the population is up from 7.9 percent in 1990 and 4.8
percent in 1970.

The study shows that immigrants who have arrived in this country since 1990 are
more likely to receive public assistance than native-born Americans - 5.7
percent vs. 2.9 percent - but that those who arrived before 1970 are less likely
to receive it - 1.4 percent.

The study also shows that of the 22.6 million foreign-born people living in the
United States in March 1994, 6.2 million came from Mexico. The Philippines is
the homeland of the next largest group, around 1 million.

The census findings, which cover legal and illegal immigrants, were made public
amid debate over immigration policies, both in Congress and among Republican
presidential hopefuls. Congress is considering legislation that would cap rates
of legal immigration and seek to slow illegal immigration.

More than 4 million people are believed to be in the United States illegally,
with some estimates reaching 5.4 million. About 1 million people were admitted
to the country legally in 1994.

Five states with large immigrant populations - Arizona, California, Florida, New
Jersey and Texas - have sued the federal government, accusing it of not
enforcing U.S. borders and seeking reimbursement for education, health care and
prison beds used by hundreds of thousands of illegal immigrants.

Federal judges have dismissed the lawsuits by California, Florida and Texas.
California officials have said they planned to appeal the ruling, and similar
appeals could be made by Florida and Texas.

LOAD-DATE: August 30, 1995

LANGUAGE: English

                  Copyright 1995 St. Louis Post-Dispatch, Inc.


                              175 of 308 DOCUMENTS

                       St. Louis Post-Dispatch (Missouri)

                 September 1, 1995, Friday, THREE STAR Edition

INS HOPES TO SPEED PROCESS OF CITIZENSHIP; AGENCY NOW FACES BACKLOG OF 600,000

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 1C

LENGTH: 531 words

DATELINE: LOS ANGELES


The Immigration and Naturalization Service unveiled a major new program Thursday
to deal with "an unprecedented upsurge in the number of people applying for
citizenship."

Called "Citizenship USA," the program is aimed at speeding up the naturalization
process, which now takes more than a year on average, and at reducing a backlog
of nearly 600,000 people waiting to be sworn in as American citizens.

The Immigration Service "will substantially increase its staff, expand its
facilities, introduce new technology, streamline procedures and create new and
better partnerships with community organizations," said Doris Meissner, the INS
commissioner.

The program is being funded under a $ 76.6 million allocation approved by
Congress in June in response to the surge of citizenship applications. They have
been driven in part by fears among foreign-born residents of growing
anti-immigrant sentiment in the United States.

Critics have charged that although "naturalization" is the service's middle
name, the citizenship process has been neglected in recent years in favor of
enforcement, notably the apprehension of illegal aliens.

A study issued last week pointed out that despite a 225 percent increase in
applications for citizenship in the last five years, the funds allocated by
Congress to the agency's Naturalization Division decreased by nearly 35 percent
over the same period as a percentage of the total Immigration Service budget.
+++++
The 'N' In INS

Guillermo Rodriguez Jr., director of Latino Issues Forum, which issued the
study, credited Meissner for "finally putting the 'N' back in INS." But he
doubted that it would be enough to handle the backlog, much less the 1 million
citizenship applications this year.

Meissner announced the program in Los Angeles, which she said would be the
program's first target. The Immigration Service's Los Angeles district office
has the country's largest backlog of cases and expects about 275,000 new
citizenship applications this year, nearly double the number it received last
year.

Without the program, Meissner said, the waiting period from application to
citizenship would soon increase to two years from about one year at present.

"No one should wait two years to become a U.S. citizen," she said. "Our new
efforts will ensure that they don't."

The Immigration Service expects the program to reduce the waiting period to six
months for new applicants by the summer of next year. +++++
'Good Moral Character'

In most cases foreign-born adults can apply for citizenship after they have had
permanent immigrant status for five years and have lived in the United States
for half that time. They then have to pass examinations showing that they can
read, speak and write English and have a basic knowledge of U.S. government and
history.

In addition they have to pay a $ 95 fee, and the Immigration Service has to
determine that they are of "good moral character."

Besides Los Angeles, the cities of Miami, New York, Chicago and San Francisco
will be the focus of similar efforts under the program. Together, the five
cities account for 75 percent of all pending citizenship applications.

LOAD-DATE: September 1, 1995

LANGUAGE: English

                  Copyright 1995 St. Louis Post-Dispatch, Inc.


                              176 of 308 DOCUMENTS

                       St. Louis Post-Dispatch (Missouri)

                 September 3, 1995, Sunday, THREE STAR Edition

TOWN OF IMMIGRANTS NOW ACCUSED OF BIAS; IT SHUTS DOORS TO HISPANICS, CRITICS
CHARGE

BYLINE: Judy Pasternak 1995, Los Angeles Times

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 11C

LENGTH: 721 words

DATELINE: ADDISON, ILL.


The Germans came, the Greeks came, the Italians came, the Poles came.

Generations of immigrants followed the lure of steady jobs to this factory town
of 32,000 people on Salt Creek. Wages from the assembly line paid the rent at
first, and later, the mortgage on the ranches, split-levels and salt boxes near
the industrial parks.

For 15 years the Mexicans took their turn, passing word to friends and family
back home that there were plastic bags and compact-disc boxes to be made, punch
presses to operate, cartons to pack.

But the Hispanics - unlike the others - are beginning to feel distinctly
unwelcome. Addison has been accused in a class-action suit and by the Justice
Department of trying to bulldoze its Hispanics out of town.

Citing urban blight, the village government plans to raze small apartment
complexes in the two neighborhoods where poor newcomers tend to land first.
These happen to be the two most heavily Hispanic sections.

The decision has enmeshed Addison in an uproar touching some of the nation's
most exposed nerves: race, immigration, property values and the rights of local
government. "This is Mexican removal, not urban renewal," says Matthew Piers, a
lawyer representing the residents in the suit.

Village President Larry Hartwig, who denies ethnic bias, says the Justice
Department is fighting, through the courts, for "a housing affirmative action
program to be imposed on local government throughout the country."

The case is the most dramatic of four recently brought by U.S. authorities
against municipalities that allegedly used the tools of government to, in
effect, discriminate against Hispanics:

Wildwood, N.J., a beach resort, agreed last September to pay $ 75,000 in damages
and to change its stringent limits on the number of occupants in a home, after
the Justice Department sued the city for violating the Fair Housing Act.

In Cicero, Ill., real estate agents said their lucrative business selling homes
to Hispanics slowed to a standstill after the town passed a similar ordinance -
which did not affect the predominantly Anglo population that had bought houses
in the past. The Justice Department sued.

Hatch, N.M., has been charged in federal court with forcing out mobile homes
from an area where many Hispanic farm workers live. The occupants had little
choice, the suit claims, but to move outside city limits to the squalid
settlements known as colonias.

As the Hispanic presence continues to grow and disperse from historic enclaves
in the Southwest and large cities into suburbs and small towns across America,
Paul Hancock of the Justice Department's Civil Rights Division suspects there
will be more such indicators of hostile reaction along the new frontiers.

Complaints Increase

Private fair-housing groups are noticing the same pattern. The Leadership
Council for Metropolitan Open Communities, a Chicago-based group that is
involved in the Addison asuit, noticed an increase in complaints by Hispanics in
the last five years, says general counsel Edward Voci. About 45 percent of those
come from the suburbs, where Hispanics are beginning to appear in clusters.

Addison should not be counted among the resisters, insists John Berley, the
town's assistant director of community development. "There's no way we're
discriminating." Addison's redevelopment districts are "not Cabrini-Green" - a
notorious public housing complex in Chicago, 20 miles to the east - "but we
don't want to let it get that way before we do anything about it."

Last year, the Addison board of trustees placed the sturdy brick-and-stone
buildings of Green Oaks Court and Michael Lane in two redevelopment districts,
which are financed by a quarter-cent village-wide sales tax.

Eight buildings so far have come down. Three more were bought by the village,
which evicted the occupants. The vacant structures stand boarded-up, awaiting
the outcome of the suits.

Like the other immigrants before them, the Hispanics are intent on scrimping to
buy a home.

"I think they think if they eliminate these two areas, they eliminate the ports
of entry, and maybe they can stop all these Mexicans from moving in here," says
Rita Gonzales, a resident, a plaintiff in the class-action suit and executive
director of Hispanics United, a local group formed in 1992.

LOAD-DATE: September 3, 1995

LANGUAGE: English

                  Copyright 1995 St. Louis Post-Dispatch, Inc.


                              177 of 308 DOCUMENTS

                       St. Louis Post-Dispatch (Missouri)

               September 4, 1995, Monday, FIVE STAR LIFT Edition

22 BOSNIAN REFUGEES FIND WORK, HOPE AT AREA HOTEL

BYLINE: Charles Hurt Of the Post-Dispatch Staff

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 1C

LENGTH: 340 words


With their homes crumbling behind them, 22 Bosnian refugees have found stability
at an upscale hotel in downtown St. Louis.

The Hyatt Regency at Union Station began hiring the immigrants last year and
have organized a program to help the new employees fit into the United States.

"It's kind of like a win-win situation," said hotel manager Paul Verciglio.

He said that in return for giving the Bosnians badly needed jobs, the hotel gets
hard workers.

"They are aggressive to learn, and they are aggressive to work," he said.

The hotel has even published for its new workers "Bosnian Hyatt Style," a book
of explanations about hotel etiquette and English translations.

Since 1993, 1,000 Bosnian refugees have come to St. Louis, said Anna Crosslin,
president of the International Institute of Metropolitan St. Louis, which helped
place the refugees here.

Crosslin said that 90 percent of the Bosnians find work within six months of
arriving here.

Verciglio hopes that in addition to providing waitresses, room service waiters
and cleaning crew today, the program will provide future leaders for the hotel.

"As a group, you will see them grow," he said. "We would like to see them grow
within our company."

Dzenisa Cirkic, 18, moved to St. Louis a year ago with her parents and two
brothers. She is the youngest Bosnian hire and works as a waitress at The
Station Grille.

"People always tip me well," she said. "People say they like my accent."

Cirkic spoke no English when she arrived here but is now one of the most fluent
of the group. She and the rest of the group are enrolled in English classes as
part of the Hyatt program.

Arijana Baskot, 22, was studying to be a doctor in Bosnia when she moved here a
year ago. Her move from hostess at The Station Grille to a desk clerk at the
front of the hotel brought a pay raise. She is supporting her 10-year-old sister
and sick parents.

"It's an adventure," said Baskot.

"I am happy because I'm not in war," she said, "but I'm not really happy like I
was."

LOAD-DATE: September 5, 1995

LANGUAGE: English

                  Copyright 1995 St. Louis Post-Dispatch, Inc.


                              178 of 308 DOCUMENTS

                       St. Louis Post-Dispatch (Missouri)

               September 10, 1995, Sunday, FIVE STAR LIFT Edition

CANCER, LOCALE STUDIED; WHERE WOMEN LIVED AS ADULTS CALLED KEY

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 6C

LENGTH: 330 words

DATELINE: WASHINGTON


The chances of dying of breast cancer may be influenced most strongly by where a
woman lives as an adult, not where she was born and lived as a child, according
to a new study.

The research found that among immigrants to Australia and Canada, the death rate
from breast cancer tends to be more like that of their new country instead of
their country of origin.

Researchers said that while the findings were not uniformly consistent, they do
suggest breast cancer risk is not set in childhood but can change because of
environmental factors in the middle years of life.

"These findings strongly indicate that environmental and lifestyle factors
associated with the new place of residence influence the breast cancer rates of
immigrants," says the study, which was published in the Journal of the National
Cancer Institute. "Because most migrants migrate as adults, the findings suggest
that the risk of breast cancer can be altered later in life."

The study was conducted by Erich V. Kliewer of the Australian National
University in Canberra and Ken R. Smith of the University of Utah, Salt Lake
City.

The authors examined 16 groups migrating from countries with low risk of breast
cancer to Australia, along with 14 groups of Australian immigrants from
higher-risk countries. They also compared the breast cancer rates for 20 groups
moving to Canada from low-risk countries and five groups of Canadian immigrants
from higher-risk countries.

For the Australian groups, 12 of the 16 immigrants groups from lower-risk
countries experienced breast cancer mortality like that of native-born
Australians. Of the 14 groups migrating to Australia from higher-risk countries,
10 had the same breast cancer mortality rates as women born in Australia.

The changes were slightly different in Canada. Twelve of 20 immigrant groups
from low-risk countries and four of five groups from high-risk countries assumed
the breast cancer mortality rates of native-born Canadians.

LOAD-DATE: September 11, 1995

LANGUAGE: English

                  Copyright 1995 St. Louis Post-Dispatch, Inc.


                              179 of 308 DOCUMENTS

                       St. Louis Post-Dispatch (Missouri)

              September 14, 1995, Thursday, FIVE STAR LIFT Edition

FAMILY STUFF

SECTION: GET OUT; Pg. 52

LENGTH: 712 words


Act 1, Scene 1

This year marks the 208th anniversary of the signing of the United States
Constitution, the oldest working constitution in the world. To celebrate this
milestone, visitors to the Old Courthouse, 11 North Fourth Street, will be
invited to sign their names Friday, Saturday and Sunday to a giant replica of
the document, which will be displayed in the Rotunda.

Each signer will receive a pocket-sized copy of the Constitution and a button
that reads "I Signed the Constitution."

Signatures will be returned to the National Constitution Center to eventually
become part of the 5 million signatures electronically captured in an
international database. The database will be available for everyone to see in
1999 when the new interactive museum, the Constitution Center, is completed on
Independence Mall in Philadelphia.

-But the signing is only part of the event. At 1 p.m. Friday, the Immigration &
Naturalization Service will conduct a naturalization ceremony in the Rotunda. On
Saturday and Sunday, there will be mock trials in which visitors will be invited
to participate. At 1 p.m., there will be a re-enactment of the Williams vs.
Bellefontaine Railway trial, involving the case of a young, pregnant
African-American who was discriminated against on public transportation in 1867.
At 2 p.m., it will be the Virginia L. Minor vs Reese Happerset trial, involving
a woman's right to vote in 1872. At 3 p.m., it will be the Dred Scott trial
about a slave who sued for his freedom.

Visitors will play the roles of judges, lawyers, jurors and witnesses.
Information: 425-4468. Sundae With The Family

If you're blessed with one of those youngsters who likes to watch - but only a
for a little while - and then participate, the Sheldon has come up with a
program that will satisfy you and suit your child. This family series is
designed to introduce young people to the worlds of music, dance and drama.

In each of three programs, St. Louis acts will perform for about 45 minutes in
the concert hall, 3648 Washington Avenue; then children will have the chance to
participate in a hands-on workshop. The sundae part of this arty adventure? Ice
cream, courtesy of Pevely Dairy.

The first of these adventures, all of which are at 3 p.m. on Sundays, will be
"Jazz Lives" with Jeanne Trevor and the Gateway Jazz Ensemble this Sunday.

The second will be Oct. 1 with a program called "Fast Feet," featuring Sally
Bliss of Dance St. Louis, hosting Irish stepdancing by St. Louis Irish Arts,
modern dance by the Gash-Voigt Duo, and ballet, flamenco and tap by the St.
Louis Ballet Conservatory.

The third in the series will be "On Stage," in which Muny 1st Stage presents
storytelling and children's theater, bringing the world of drama to life for the
kids.

The series is $ 15. Individual tickets are $ 6. Information: 534-1111. Roll Out
Those Barrels

Not everyone cares how craftsmen of the 19th century managed to accomplish what
they did without the help of sophisticated machinery.  But for those who are
curious, one of the best weekend outings of the fall could be a visit to the
annual National Festival of Craftsmen at Silver Dollar City, the theme park in
Branson.

More than 75 visiting craftsmen from across the nation will join the theme
park's resident artisans to demonstrate their work at the turn-of-the-century
Ozarks village.

Visitors can see how barrels were crafted from wood planks, how cornstraw was
fashioned into brooms and how the musically inclined managed to find a fiddle in
what was once nothing but strips of wood.

It isn't just the little stuff, either. Sure Violet Hensley of Yellville, Ark.,
will be there showing her fiddles, but so will Gary Stull of Ash Grove, Mo., a
man who can take planks and make them look like wagons and stagecoaches.

In addition, some of the craftsmen are pooling their talents to finish the
Bittersweet Log Church, which is being constructed near McHaffie's Homestsead
off the square. Plus the festival, which will run through Oct. 29, will feature
some food not seen anywhere else, such as Buffalo Chili and Son of a Gun Stew.

The park is closed Mondays. Hours are 9 a.m.-6 p.m. Sunday and Tuesday-Friday;
and 9 a.m.-7 p.m. Saturday. Information: (800) 952-6626.

LOAD-DATE: September 15, 1995

LANGUAGE: English

                  Copyright 1995 St. Louis Post-Dispatch, Inc.


                              180 of 308 DOCUMENTS

                       St. Louis Post-Dispatch (Missouri)

               September 15, 1995, Friday, FIVE STAR LIFT Edition

ENGLISH LANGUAGE UNITES A DIVERSE NATION

BYLINE: Joan Beck

SECTION: EDITORIAL; Pg. 17C

LENGTH: 909 words

COMMENTARY COLUMN


Insisting that all our citizens are fluent in English is a welcoming act of
inclusion and insist we must. We need the glue of language to help hold us
together.

-Senate Majority Leader Bob Dole

Of course Dole was playing politics, catering to the American Legion at whose
convention in Indianapolis he was speaking last week.

Of course he was trying to win points with the hard-core political right, to
keep its support from swinging to more conservative presidential candidates.

Of course he was flag waving, parading Americana themes, sounding so many
patriotic notes you could almost hear Sousa in the background.

Even so, Dole is right. He is right about making English the official language
of government. He is right about insisting that immigrant children learn English
quickly in school. And he is right that the current trend toward pushing
multiculturalism and diversity has gone too far, emphasizing what divides us
instead of what unites us.

Dole made his points just a week after the U.S. Census Bureau reported with
surprise that the percentage of foreign-born people in the United States has
been growing at a record pace. The United States now has the highest percentage
of foreign-born people in 55 years. More than 22.6 million people - 8.7 percent
of us - are immigrants.

From 1990 to 1994, almost as many immigrants - 4.5 million - have come to the
United States as during all of the 1970s. One-fourth of the people living in
California were born in other countries.

Dole's reminder comes during a summer that has seen ethnic passions tear Bosnia
into bloody shards, Rwanda become a slaughterhouse for Tutsis and Hutus and
parts of the former Soviet Union implode in fighting. It has also seen continued
ethnic and bilingual bitterness in Quebec; that province may yet pull itself
away from the rest of Canada.

Diversity and multiculturalism should be welcomed and treasured. But this
country must have stronger bonds to hold us together in peace and mutual
appreciation, lest we become a Balkanized and volatile mix of prickly minorities
scuffling for territory, entitlements, power and more of the American pie.

A commitment to a common language is one obvious answer, as Alexis de
Tocqueville recognized a century and a half ago when he wrote, "The tie of
language is perhaps the strongest and the most durable that can unite mankind."

According to the 1990 census, 327 languages are spoken in the United States. It
would be impossible to print ballots, write laws and do government business in
all of them. (Canada spent $ 6.7 billion in a decade to satisfy its official
requirements to use French along with English.)

But many state governments are at least trying. California, for example,
provides drivers license exams in 35 languages, New York in 23 and Rhode Island
in 19, according to U.S. English, an advocacy group for English as a common
language. Los Angeles prints bilingual ballots in six foreign languages.

Twenty-two other states have moved in the opposite direction and passed laws
making English their official language. The laws apply only to state business
and do not affect private businesses or personal activities.

Congress is studying a bill sponsored by Rep. Bill Emerson, R-Mo., and Sen.
Richard Shelby, D-Ala. to make English the official language of the U.S.
government. The bill would allow exceptions for other languages to be used when
public safety, health, judicial proceedings and tourism are involved. And the
bill says it's not intended to stop or discourage the use of other languages or
to interfere with individual rights.

Making English our official language would send a powerful message of unity to
all Americans. It would put immigrants on notice that if they choose to come to
the United States, they are expected to become Americans, as other generations
of newcomers have done. That is, beyond doubt, to their economic, political and
social advantage - and to their children's.

Related bills before Congress would provide incentives to the private sector to
offer English language instruction. And a proposed sense-of-Congress resolution
not only says that "the United States should maintain the use of English as a
language common to all peoples," but "recognizes the cultural importance of the
many languages spoken in the United States" and encourages people to stay fluent
in them as well as in English.

Dole is also on target in his criticism of bilingual and multilingual education
as it has evolved. Instead of making years-long efforts to maintain the foreign
language and culture of children - a family responsibility - schools have the
responsibility for teaching children English as quickly and effectively as
possible.

This, as experience and research show, means English immersion.
Non-English-speaking youngsters should have every kind of emotional support,
their self-esteem should be fostered and their cultural differences should be
respected. They should be helped to learn other subjects. But the primary
emphasis should be getting them up to speed in English first of all. The earlier
children are exposed to a second language, the more easily they learn it and the
more fluently they use it.

What's at stake is not just the future unity of this country, but the futures of
those who have chosen to become part of it. Just because Dole is a politician
looking for votes doesn't mean we should ignore what he's saying.

LOAD-DATE: September 15, 1995

LANGUAGE: English

                  Copyright 1995 St. Louis Post-Dispatch, Inc.


                              181 of 308 DOCUMENTS

                       St. Louis Post-Dispatch (Missouri)

                October 15, 1995, Sunday, FIVE STAR LIFT Edition

LAWYER NAMED 'BORDER CZAR'

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 13A

LENGTH: 89 words

DATELINE: SAN DIEGO


U.S. Attorney Alan Bersin of San Diego has been named to the newly created post
of "border czar," to oversee the array of law enforcement agencies along the
U.S.-Mexico border, Justice Department officials said Friday.

While remaining the top U.S. prosecutor in San Diego, Bersin, 48, will report
directly to U.S. Attorney General Janet Reno and coordinate multi-agency
projects, such as using the FBI to target immigrant smuggling as organized crime
and reorganizing inspections by the Immigration and Naturalization Service.

LOAD-DATE: October 15, 1995

LANGUAGE: English

                  Copyright 1995 St. Louis Post-Dispatch, Inc.


                              182 of 308 DOCUMENTS

                       St. Louis Post-Dispatch (Missouri)

                October 23, 1995, Monday, FIVE STAR LIFT Edition

FEMALE MUTILATION; IMMIGRATES TO U.S.

BYLINE: Ellen Goodman Copyright The Boston Globe Newspaper Co.

SECTION: EDITORIAL; Pg. 7B

LENGTH: 717 words

ELLEN GOODMAN COLUMN

DATELINE: BOSTON


We don't want to believe that it happens here. Stories about this most brutal of
traditions are supposed to carry foreign datelines. Female genital mutilation -
a label as grisly as it is accurate - happens only in places where ancient
ritual still overwhelms reason. It happens among people who regard a woman's
sexuality as so dangerous that it must be eliminated. It happens in communities
where women are taught that mutilation is the price of belonging.

Across the world, somewhere between 100 million and 130 million women and girls
have been mutilated in infancy, at puberty, in pregnancy. They've had their
clitoris amputated, their labia cut away, and then were sewn together in
ceremonies too painful even to read about.

This is the fate of nearly every woman and girl in Somalia. Of 90 percent of the
females in Ethiopia. Of half in Egypt. You can read all about it in reports at
international conferences.

But now we are learning that female genital mutilation has been imported to
America.

The numbers are still uncertain. No one has yet properly gathered data from the
immigrant communities where daughters are being mutilated by the dictates of
their homeland tradition. The estimates range from the hundreds to the
thousands. But the anecdotes and the testimony are piling up.

When Rep. Pat Schroeder first began talking about FGM in America, many of her
colleagues regarded it as, in her words, "more feminazi ranting." Even an aide
refused to believe that it was a serious problem until he went with Schroeder to
a Denver school, where a teacher said, "You see those two Somali girls, let me
tell you what happened to them last week."

Now evidence comes from horrified doctors who encounter mutilated women on the
examining table or in the delivery room. It comes as well from immigrant women
themselves, telling their stories and trying to save the next generation of
children.

In October's Atlantic Monthly, Linda Burstyn writes about families who import
someone from home to perform these so-called "circumcisions" in America. She
repeats the words of a taxi driver in Washington who approved this practice
because he "wasn't going to let my daughters have those things!" She tells about
mothers who believe that without FGM their daughters will be grotesque,
unmarriageable, and she tells about a grandmother who fears that her baby
granddaughter "will grow up horny. She'll be like American girls."

By every measurement, genital mutilation on a minor is child abuse. In England,
Sweden and much of Europe, it's been made illegal. In France, a mother was
jailed for having her two daughters cut. But not a single case has been
prosecuted in America. Indeed, just three states - New York, Minnesota and North
Dakota - have made FGM on minors a felony.

Our reaction has been muted by ignorance and squeamishness. It's been tempered
as well by some perverse respect for cultural "differences" - that neutral word
which can lump together clitoridectomies and folk dances. It's been tamped down
by a bizarre analogy made between female "circumcision" and male.

But at last human rights groups like Equality Now are supporting the work of
activists who live in the communities where FGM goes on. At the same time,
Congress is finally confronting this reality.

Two bills, sponsored by Pat Schroeder in the House and Harry Reid in the Senate,
would make it illegal to perform FGM on a child in America. As part of the
foreign appropriations bill that's now in conference committee, these bills
would also provide funds to find out how widespread the problem is and in which
communities.

Another strategy proposed by Schroeder would try to stop FGM at the border by
adding a requirement to the immigration bill. All new immigrants would be told
they cannot bring this "tradition" with them.

Just weeks ago, the U.N. conference in Beijing was full of talk about gender and
violence. The speeches were sprinkled with painful references to the horrors of
this ancient rite. Schroeder was not the only woman to listen, wince, and
realize, "how lucky I was to be born in America."

We have to make sure that luck holds and extends to every female. The U.N. plan
of action was indeed a take-home document. This country too has to say no. Not
here. Not anymore.

LOAD-DATE: October 23, 1995

LANGUAGE: English

                  Copyright 1995 St. Louis Post-Dispatch, Inc.


                              183 of 308 DOCUMENTS

                       St. Louis Post-Dispatch (Missouri)

               November 4, 1995, Saturday, FIVE STAR LIFT Edition

CALIFORNIA FRIEND PLEADS FOR HAVEN FOR IRISH WOMAN

BYLINE: Christine Bertelson

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 1B

LENGTH: 809 words

CHRISTINE BERTELSON COLUMN


LAST TUESDAY evening, a 19-year-old woman en route to San Francisco from her
home in Dublin, Ireland, stopped to change planes at Lambert Field.

As she passed through customs here, she told immigration officers that she had
come to the United States for a holiday. She planned to stay in San Francisco
for several weeks as the houseguest of an old friend of her father, then travel
to Mexico.

However, immigration officers at Lambert did not like certain aspects of her
plan. They did not like the fact that she had only $ 445 in her purse. They did
not like the fact that she had a one-way ticket to California, not a round-trip
ticket to Dublin.

Maybe she was naive about the rules, as young people tend to be. Maybe she had
hidden motives, as young people sometimes do. Maybe she was just confused, as
young people almost always are.

In any case, she was taken to a holding area and questioned in detail. Did she
use drugs? Had she ever been to the United States before? If she had the chance
to go to college here, would she try to stay? The immigration officers read her
diary, looking for clues to her real intentions.

They took her passport, birth certificate and money, and told her they would buy
her a ticket back to London. Entry denied.

She began to cry. Her reasons for coming to America were more complicated than
they appeared. A little more than a year ago, she had been raped by a drug
addict, she said. Because abortion is illegal in Ireland, she had gone to
England for an abortion. When she returned, she faced the censure of her family
- staunch Catholics who believe abortion is a sin.

She also had left Dublin, where she worked as a designer for a dress shop, to
escape the fierce moral and political debate raging over abortion. Advocates of
legalized abortion in Ireland hope to force the issue onto the ballot next year.

"It is something people talk about every day, everywhere you go," she said. "I
needed to get away from it for a while, so I could return to face it and be
stronger."

The thought of going back to Ireland was too much. She went into the restroom at
the airport and broke her perfume bottle. She slashed both wrists with the
shards of glass, then ingested a full bottle of aspirin from her purse.

The next thing she remembers is riding in an ambulance to DePaul Health Center,
where she is in a psychiatric ward.

"I was very upset, and I overreacted," she said Friday morning. "I didn't know
anybody in London. I had no money left. I really needed to spend some time with
a friend and try to make some decisions. I felt like I didn't have anything to
live for."

The friend she had intended to visit in California is Carollee Peterson, a
51-year-old administrative judge for the city of Berkeley. The young woman lived
with Peterson for a year from 1993-94.

Peterson had offered to pay the young woman's living expenses on this visit, and
the young woman already had paid her air fare to California and back. Peterson
also planned to take her to Mexico to visit Peterson's 27-year-old son, who
teaches at the University of Guadalajara.

Instead, Peterson flew to St. Louis Wednesday, where she says she has spent
three sleepless days and nights talking with lawyers, doctors, anyone she thinks
could help the young woman. She has known her since birth and regards her as a
surrogate daughter.

Peterson said the young woman "felt so guilty about the abortion and so
traumatized by the rape. I seem to be the one person who is her support system.
The best thing would be for her to stay here with me. I would support her and
see that she gets the therapy she needs."

That won't happen, says Chester Moyer, who heads the U.S. Immigration and
Naturalization Service in St. Louis. Early next week, she will be sent back to
Ireland, Moyer said.

"It wouldn't matter what sum of money she had, or who would step forward," Moyer
said. Citing chapter and verse, Moyer said the young woman is not eligible to
visit the United States because she has a "mental disorder and behavior
associated with the disorder that may pose a threat to the property, safety or
welfare of the alien or others."

The Irish consulate in Chicago is making arrangements to send her home escorted
by a mental health professional and to help her find counseling in Dublin.

Dropping his official tone for a moment, Moyer - the father of three teen-agers
- softened.

"She is a mixed-up kid," said Moyer. "She is looking around and trying to figure
out what to do with her life. She's having a tough time and making it tough for
us, too." Christine Bertelson's column appears Tuesday, Thursday and Saturday.
You can reach her on PostLine at 923-2323, then tap in 4077, by fax at 340-3050,
by e-mail at cbert@inlink.com or by writing her at the Post-Dispatch, 900 North
Tucker Blvd., St. Louis, Mo. 63101.

LOAD-DATE: November 4, 1995

LANGUAGE: English

                  Copyright 1995 St. Louis Post-Dispatch, Inc.


                              184 of 308 DOCUMENTS

                       St. Louis Post-Dispatch (Missouri)

              November 11, 1995, Saturday, FIVE STAR LIFT Edition

CATCHING UP ON GOOD NEWS AND BAD AND DRIVE TO BUY THE CARDS

BYLINE: Christine Bertelson

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 1B

LENGTH: 804 words

CHRISTINE BERTELSON COLUMN


UPDATES.

The 19-year-old Irish woman who attempted suicide at Lambert Field two weeks ago
after immigration authorities denied her entry into the United States is back in
Dublin in a psychiatric hospital.

Frank Sheridan, the Irish consul general in Chicago, said the young woman was
flown to Ireland last Tuesday. An immigration official from St. Louis and a
nurse accompanied her on the flight. The young woman agreed to enter St.
Brendan's psychiatric hospital in Dublin on her arrival, Sheridan said.

The Irish government has confiscated her passport and won't return it until she
pays it $ 4,500 - the tab for her airfare back to Dublin, plus the round-trip
tickets for the two officials who traveled with her. She will have 10 years to
pay off the debt, Sheridan said.

The young woman, who worked part time in a dress shop,  stopped in St. Louis to
change planes en route to visit a family friend in San Francisco. Immigration
officials questioned her because she did not have enough money to support
herself for an extended visit and didn't have a round-trip ticket to Ireland.

Distraught, the young woman went into the bathroom at Lambert and slashed her
wrists. She was taken to DePaul Health Center and kept under observation in a
psychiatric ward for several days.

The young woman had been raped by a drug addict in Dublin a little more than a
year ago. Because abortion is illegal in Ireland, she had gone to England for an
abortion. She needed to recover emotionally from the trauma of the rape and the
abortion, and sought the support from a family friend in California, Carollee
cPeterson.

"All she wanted was a little blue sky," said Peterson. "I was willing to support
her and get her the therapy she needed."

The incident at Lambert will have serious consequences for the young woman's
ability to leave Ireland, Sheridan said. As for visiting the United States, she
will have to convince American officials that she has overcome the "mental
problems" which barred her entry to the United States.

Lillian Fernandez, an immigration attorney familiar with the case, said the
Irish woman's story exemplifies the anti-immigrant fervor in the United States.

"We are becoming so protective of our borders that we are going to see more and
more of these tragedies," Fernandez said.

On the baseball front, St. Louis' other beer baron, lawyer Thomas F. Schlafly,
reports progress toward his goal of buying the St. Louis Cardinals baseball
team, stadium and parking garage.

As of presstime Friday, $ 207.70 had been collected in two plastic buckets kept
behind the bar at his micro-brewery and restaurant, The Tap Room, in midtown.

"Most of our investors have been anonymous," Schlafly said., "I had hoped that
if the amount doubled every day, we would be able to reach our $ 160 million
goal soon. But donations seem to have plateaued."

Schlafly said he is considering placing buckets at the St. Louis Country Club, -
of which he is a member. Several other country club members have expressed an
interest in buying the team.

Should the Schlafly investors' group fall short, the money collected will be
donated to the 100 NEEDIEST CASES, Schlafly said.

The Al-Malt family of West County has a good fence and good neighbors, but they
had to move to get them.

Moira and Ahmed Al-Malt and their three children lived in the Baxter Ridge
subdivision in Chesterfield. Last spring, the couple sought permission from
subdivision trustees to build a 6-foot fence around their back yard. They needed
a high fence so that their 6-year-old son, Sameh, who is severely autistic,
hyperactive and mentally retarded, could play safely outside. s

Subdivision trustees refused to make an exception for the Al-Malts, citing
subdivision rules that restrict fences to 4 feet in height. Letters of support
from Chesterfield Mayor Jack Leonard, Sameh's teachers at the Judevine Center
for Autism and the Wren Hollow School, and from St. Louis housing authorities
failed to sway the trustees.

The trustees changed their minds, however, after they were threatened with a $
5,000 fine for violating the Fair Housing Act, Moira Al-Malt said. The act
prohibits discrimination in housing based on disability.

The Al-Malts got their permit for the fence, Moira said. But by then they had
had enough of neighbors' ill-will toward them and their handicapped child.

They moved two weeks ago to a house that is not in a subdivision.

"We have our fence and really nice neighbors," said Moira. "Sameh is very happy
in his new yard." Christine Bertelson's column appears Tuesday, Thursday and
Saturday. You can reach her on PostLine at 923-2323, then tap in 4077, by fax at
340-3050, by e-mail at cbert@inlink.com or by writing her at the Post-Dispatch,
900 North Tucker Blvd., St. Louis, Mo. 63101.

LOAD-DATE: November 14, 1995

LANGUAGE: English

GRAPHIC: PHOTO; Photo by James Finley/AP - A poster in The Tap Room in midtown
St. Louis charts the money collected by Thomas F. Schlafly to keep the Cardinals
in St. Louis.

                  Copyright 1995 St. Louis Post-Dispatch, Inc.


                              185 of 308 DOCUMENTS

                       St. Louis Post-Dispatch (Missouri)

               November 14, 1995, Tuesday, FIVE STAR LIFT Edition

ISRAEL BANS IMMIGRANT JEWS WITH TIES TO 'TERRORISTS'

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 3A

LENGTH: 542 words

DATELINE: JERUSALEM


In the wake of the assassination of Yitzhak Rabin, the Irsaeli government put
into effect Monday a new policy banning U.S. and other Jews identifying with
Jewish "terrorist" groups from settling in Israel.

Acting Prime Minister Shimon Peres also met with opposition leader Benjamin
Netanyahu, and the two agreed to tone down the political brawling and incitement
that left-wingers say led to the assassination.

Interior Minister Ehud Barak barred the entry to Israel of an activist of the
Kach movement, founded by the late anti-Arab Rabbi Meir Kahane. The would-be
immigrant and his nationality were not disclosed, but Kach has a main power base
in the United States. The group is outlawed in Israel.

Under Israel's Law of Return, foreigners who can trace Jewish roots to at least
one grandparent can become new immigrants and claim Israeli citizenship.

But an Interior Ministry statement said Barak, who pledged to crack down on
Jewish extremists because of Prime Minister Rabin's assassination Nov. 4,
intended to bar the entry to Israel of "extremist elements who could disrupt
public peace and harm national security."

Environment Minister Yossi Sarid said Sunday that right-wing Jewish groups were
concentrated in the United States, but the entry of militants from other
countries also would be banned.

Yigal Amir, 25, who said he killed Rabin because the prime minister was prepared
to hand occupied land back to the Palestinians in exchange for peace, is a
native-born Israeli. But many settlers in the West Bank who share his opposition
to returning occupied land originally came from the United States. For example,
Baruck Goldstein, who killed 29 Muslim worshipers in a mosque in Hebron last
year, came from Brooklyn.

Verbal Blows

In a 30-minute meeting requested by Netanyahu, he and Peres agreed to soften the
political debate. Peres said: "The honor of the Knesset (parliament) must be
reinstated, and the exchange of verbal blows must be stopped."

Netanyahu said, "This debate must continue for the sake of Israeli democracy,
but . . . within the bounds of restraint and civility." He said extremists like
Amir had "nothing to do with the mainstream political parties in Israel."

Peres later went to the Knesset, where politicians are still arguing about whose
political fingerprints are on the assassin's gun, to commit his government to
Rabin's legacy of Middle East peacemaking.

A sign of that commitment came in the northern West Bank town of Jenin, where
Israel handed over civilian authority to Palestinians and pulled back its
soldiers after 28 years of occupation. Six other Palestinian towns are scheduled
to be handed back as part of the self-rule agreement that Rabin signed with
Palestine Liberation Organization Chairman Yasser Arafat.

Peres said, "We will keep all the commitments we have made: security for Israel
and Israelis, and respect of all the principles we agreed with the Palestinians,
peace with Egypt and Jordan and seeking peace with Syria and Lebanon."

He then called for an end to the incitement that fired Jewish zealots like Yigal
Amir. "We have to prevent having verbal gallows in Israel, or killers invoking
the name of God while they are really the devil's emissaries."

LOAD-DATE: November 14, 1995

LANGUAGE: English

GRAPHIC: PHOTO; Photo by AP - Palestinian police officers wave Palestinian flags
from atop buses as they are mobbed Monday by cheering crowds in Jenin, the first
West Bank town turned over to Palestinians under the most recent peace accord.
Israeli soldiers left earlier Monday.

                  Copyright 1995 St. Louis Post-Dispatch, Inc.


                              186 of 308 DOCUMENTS

                       St. Louis Post-Dispatch (Missouri)

               November 21, 1995, Tuesday, FIVE STAR LIFT Edition

A SENSELESS DEPORTATION

SECTION: EDITORIAL; Pg. 12B

LENGTH: 372 words


Time is running out for Matt Morrison, the Irish immigrant the government is
trying to deport because he belonged to the Irish Republican Army 20 years ago.
Mr. Morrison, who lives in University City with his wife and two children, is
awaiting word on his appeal of a deportation order, but, based on what he hears
through the grapevine, he is not expecting good news.

Attorney General Janet Reno has the authority to set aside the deportation
order; in doing so, she would be promoting both justice and humanitarianism.

There is no compelling reason to deport Mr. Morrison, so it is puzzling that the
Immigration and Naturalization Service is trying so hard to do so. Mr. Morrison
served 10 years in prison after firing a shot at an Ulster police officer in
1975. He was 19 at the time and caught up in the IRA cause. After completing his
sentence, Mr. Morrison came to the United States.

The Immigration and Naturalization Service began proceedings against him after
he acknowledged that he had denied, when he entered the country, ever having
been convicted of a crime. But he was not a criminal in the ordinary sense of
the word and, in any case, he has lived a constructive, law-abiding life in the
10 years he has been in this country. The INS concedes that his false statement
could be forgiven, but it says his membership in a terrorist organization 20
years ago cannot.

Why not? It is not as though Mr. Morrison is promoting terrorism today or
sending money or guns to the IRA. He is attending college and living life as a
family man.

In the face of such government inflexibility, one is forced to conclude that Mr.
Morrison, along with seven or eight other Irishmen in similar circumstances, is
being sacrificed so the United States can show the British government that
Washington does not provide asylum to people with an IRA past. British
sensibilities can be tended to in other, more substantive ways.

If Mr. Morrison is deported to Northern Ireland, his American wife and
American-born children would be uprooted with him. Moreover, in that place of
long memories, Mr. Morrison's past IRA membership could put him at risk. What
purpose of state or interest of justice is served by such a result?

LOAD-DATE: November 21, 1995

LANGUAGE: English

TYPE: EDITORIAL

                  Copyright 1995 St. Louis Post-Dispatch, Inc.


                              187 of 308 DOCUMENTS

                       St. Louis Post-Dispatch (Missouri)

              November 23, 1995, Thursday, FIVE STAR LIFT Edition

IMMIGRANTS ENJOY FIRST THANKSGIVING FEAST

BYLINE: Kristin Hubert and Victor Volland Of the Post-Dispatch Staff Nicholas C.
Wishart of the Post-Dispatch staff contributed information for this story.

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 1D

LENGTH: 1259 words


More than 400 refugees and immigrants from all over the world celebrated
Thanksgiving in two dinners Wednesday, complete with all the trimmings - and the
meaning, at the International Institute of Metropolitan St. Louis.

"Thanksgiving shows the value of America," said Darko Ivanovic, 24, a refugee
from Bosnia-Herzegovina who arrived in the United States just 26 days ago. "It
shows that (Americans) like to be together with their family."

Tran Oanh, a mother of two, left Vietnam about two months ago, and she's
thrilled about her first Thanksgiving celebration.

"It's a great day because all people meet together and say that's their home,"
she said shyly. "I'm so happy, I can't talk much."

The International Institute of Metropolitan St. Louis, at 3800 Park Avenue, is a
refugee resettlement organization that helps foreigners in this country, said
Margaret Silver, director of education.

Silver said that about 1,500 people come through the institute each year. The
institute offers education classes and helps refugees find housing and
employment.

She said that the institute had held Thanksgiving dinner for the past 12 years
that but it was not always as successful as this year.

Silver said the teachers at the institute had spent much time explaining
Thanksgiving. Many of the foreigners would turn down an invitation to dinner
because they saw it as a "handout," she said.

The modern-day pilgrims feasted on about 200 pounds of turkey - not to mention
the 400 servings of dressing and mashed potatoes. And, of course, pumpkin pie
for dessert.

Food aside, "Thanksgiving is a nice time to spend with your family and to pray,"
said 18-year-old Adisa Selmanovic, "to pray for your family who stayed."

Adisa and her family arrived in the United States in September after escaping
from Bosnia and spending time in a refugee camp in Croatia. Turkey Giveaways In
the shadow of the new Trans World Dome downtown, volunteers were loading 10- and
11-pound turkeys Wednesday morning into the grateful arms of local needy people
on the parking lot of the St. Patrick Center, at Sixth and Biddle streets.

"It's a true blessing to have someplace like this to fall back on when times are
hard," said Vanessa Robinson, 31, of St. Louis, a divorced mother of two young
sons, as she thumped the frozen turkey in the trunk of her two-door sedan. She
also got a large bag of free trimmings that included boxes of stuffing and
instant potatoes and cans of cranberries, corn, string beans and pumpkin.

"I'm working as a teacher assistant, but it's just enough to make ends meet - no
extras like a big Thanksgiving meal," Robinson said. "My mother's upset we won't
be eating over there this year, but it's time I learned to cook a turkey for my
own family. The boys and I are pretty excited about it."

St. Patrick's handed out about 750 free turkeys Wednesday. The center, part of
Catholic Charities, bought about 500 of them from Schnuck Markets, which threw
in the canned goods and other trimmings. Most of the other turkeys were donated
by the parishioners of St. Clement's Catholic Church in Des Peres and by the
Korean-American Society.

Mary Williams and June Williams, neighbors at the nearby Cochran Gardens housing
complex, were sharing a wire cart to ferry their turkeys and trimmings home.

"We wouldn't be having any Thanksgiving if it wasn't for St. Patrick's," said
Mary Williams, who lives with her five children at Cochran. June Williams, who
is rearing two teen-agers alone, agreed. "The government's messed up the food
stamp mailing, and now we don't get ours till the end of the month," she
grumbled.

Two of the many volunteers at the St. Patrick's distribution were Julie Manes,
16, and Erin Callahan, 17, students at the Academy of the Visitation who were
completing their annual community project required by the school.

"We've been here two weeks, and the people we help have taught us a lot - that
suddenly being without a job and on the streets can happen to anyone," Callahan
said.

"This experience puts things in perspective," Manes said. "We see a lot of hope
- and pride - out there still in spite of all the bad luck these people have
had."

In west St. Louis County more than 170 needy families will be sitting down to
their own Thanksgiving dinner today, thanks to donations of as many frozen
turkeys in the past week by individuals and groups to the Circle of Concern in
Valley Park. Fresh blueberry and pumpkin pies baked by Parkway West High School
cooking classes also were distributed to families.

"One anonymous donor paid for 50 turkeys because he wanted to make sure we had a
turkey for every needy family with children," said Glenn Koenen, director of the
food pantry. Seniors and others living alone were given chickens, and some
prepared Thanksgiving dinners were being delivered to shut-ins.

About 100 Circle of Concern clients and others will be dining out on turkey and
cranberries today at the Ponderosa Steakhouse in Ellisville, which got many of
the fixings donated by Dierbergs Markets and Price Chopper stores and by Crider
& Associates brokerage. "The restaurant gave its employees the day off but
wanted to do something on Thanksgiving for those who couldn't afford to eat
there otherwise," Koenen said.

The St. Louis Area Foodbank was catching its breath today after boxing and
distributing 30,000 turkeys and chickens the past two weeks to its 320 member
food pantries, soup kitchens, day-care centers and social service agencies in
eastern Missouri and southwestern Illinois.

The number was 50 percent more than the foodbank network gave away last year.
Most of the increase was to make up for continued cutbacks in government surplus
food programs. The food bank's turkey and chicken purchase program for
Thanksgiving and Christmas has grown sevenfold since it was started five years
ago.

Executive director Frank Finnegan said the program, which buys the holiday fowls
at cost from a St. Louis wholesale supplier, was made possible by monetary
donations from area companies and individuals. These range, he said, from $ 10
and $ 25 donations from ordinary individuals to the annual $ 10, 000 corporate
contribution by Insituform Co.

"This program is a perfect example of how the local private-sector community can
step in to assist our neighbors," Finnegan said. The Governor Pitches In

At the Salvation Army's Harbor Light Center in St. Louis, some of the
Thanksgiving fixings already were on the table as Gov. Mel Carnahan and his
wife, Jean, served dinner to more than 200 homeless men.

Wearing a Salvation Army apron and kitchen cap, the governor helped pile mashed
potatoes, green beans, bread, chicken fingers and gravy on plates for men who
were lined up around the corner.

"We need to be here with those who are less fortunate," said Carnahan, who for
the past three years has spent the day before Thanksgiving at the shelter. "At a
time when families and friends come together to celebrate, we must not forget
those who do not share in those bounties."

Since the beginning of the year, the center has served more than 4,300 men,
providing beds and meals. But, as the largest shelter in the city, the center
also provides substance-abuse programs, nonmedical detoxification, veterans
assistance, job training, life skills classes and counseling.

"It's a pretty nice place," said 34-year-old John Walls, one of the homeless,
who was eating in the dining room. "You get your rest here, and it keeps you
clean. You stay out of trouble."

LOAD-DATE: November 23, 1995

LANGUAGE: English

GRAPHIC: PHOTO; Color Photo by Sam Leone/Post-Dispatch - Refugees from Bosnia
enjoy a Thanksgiving meal Wednesday at the International Institute of
Metropolitan St. Louis. From left, Dzemila Sinanagic, Suada Dedic, Eldina Dedic,
Tarik Susic, Edin Sehic and Maida Nasufovic. More than 400 refugees from around
the world were invited to dinners at the institute.

                  Copyright 1995 St. Louis Post-Dispatch, Inc.


                              188 of 308 DOCUMENTS

                       St. Louis Post-Dispatch (Missouri)

                 November 27, 1995, Monday, THREE STAR Edition

CUBAN FEES IRK U.S. STATE DEPARTMENT

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 6A

LENGTH: 289 words

DATELINE: WASHINGTON


The State Department may ask Cuban authorities to reduce the $ 750 in fees
collected from Cubans leaving the country.

Before leaving, each Cuban must pay $ 400 for a medical examination, $ 100 for a
passport and $ 250 for an exit permit. The head of Cuba's diplomatic mission
here, Fernando Remirez, said in an interview that the services provided are
expensive but added that the $ 750 in fees was 15 percent less than what Cuban
citizens previously paid.

U.S. officials will raise the issue when the two countries open another in a
series of migration talks today in New York.

Also on the table during two days of talks will be the fate of about 1, 200
Cubans who arrived in the United States during the 1980 Mariel boat lift and who
remain in federal detention centers.

Successive administrations have maintained that these Cubans are not entitled to
settle in the United States because of criminal records, but Cuba has refused to
take them back.

Under an agreement reached last year, the United States promised to grant
immigrant visas annually to at least 20,000 Cubans. The flow of Cuban immigrants
has been orderly since then, but U.S. officials are irritated by what they
consider exorbitant service charges imposed by the Cuban government.

Remirez also chided the United States for limiting opportunities for
Cuban-Americans to travel to Cuba. He said a more flexible Cuban policy has
permitted more than 100,000 Cuban-Americans to visit the island since 1985.

Since May, the United States has deterred Cubans from fleeing by forcibly
returning all boat people picked up by the U.S. Coast Guard. As of last week,
131 Cubans had been returned, officials said. About a dozen have been detained
in Cuba.

LOAD-DATE: November 27, 1995

LANGUAGE: English

                  Copyright 1995 St. Louis Post-Dispatch, Inc.


                              189 of 308 DOCUMENTS

                       St. Louis Post-Dispatch (Missouri)

               December 17, 1995, Sunday, FIVE STAR LIFT Edition

THE HUMAN DIMENSION; HOW THE LATEST IMMIGRANTS COPE WITH THEIR NEW WORLD, AND
HOW WE DEAL WITH THEM, WILL DETERMINE THEIR IMPACT ON U.S. SOCIETY

BYLINE: Philip Dine Of the Post-Dispatch Staff

SECTION: WAR PAGE; Pg. 1B

LENGTH: 2878 words


WHERE, Fuad Kadiric wondered, should he turn?

A sturdy jaw and brown leather jacket lent an air of bravado, but this
41-year-old from Bosnia was foundering on several fronts. His job at a metal
factory had ended abruptly after seven months because he took off a Muslim holy
day, though he'd agreed to work a makeup day.

His son, Denis, was fired with him for the same reason. The 17-year-old had
begun work a few weeks earlier, after quitting the ninth grade when he was
stabbed by a young immigrant from another country.

Kadiric had no idea where to turn for representation, for someone to speak for
him. How should he deal with the employer, the school, the police?

The anger was welling up again, the type he'd pushed away after the dream house
he built in Sarajevo was destroyed in the war.

He used to be able to share his feelings Saturday nights at the Bosnian Club in
a warehouse on South Vandeventer Avenue. But then the doors closed most
weekends, partly a result of divisions within a rapidly growing population still
reeling from the war.

Immigrants and refugees here are grappling with personal and family struggles,
facing social and ethnic tensions or searching for a voice.

Meanwhile, the national debate on immigration rages - over whether the influx
should be curtailed and at what level, how to keep out illegal immigrants, what
services to restrict, how to compute the economic balance sheet.

But the discussion neglects a key dimension: the human side of immigration.

Whatever policy decisions are made in Washington, millions of new immigrants and
refugees are in this country and more are on their way. In the St. Louis area,
they number 80,000 and are expected to top 100,000 before the turn of the
century.

How they adapt to the situation they find and cope with what they left behind,
and how local communities and institutions respond to them,  will in large
measure condition their impact on their host society.

"Obviously these people are here, so what do we do?" asks Linda Sharpe-Taylor of
Provident Counseling, which has begun to work with newcomers in greatest need.
An Emotional Gantlet

Gedlu Metaferia, director of the Ethiopian Community Association of Missouri,
knew the family he was helping to adjust to life here was in trouble once the
wife learned she had rights.

"He wants her to treat him like a king, bring him dinner," Metaferia confided in
late May in his basement office at a South Side church. "She is not 100 percent
right either. She just says - 'This is America.' "

Without resources to hire a social worker familiar with the local system,
Metaferia translated literature into Amharic, brought over legal brochures,
engaged a traditional priest.

"We are crossing our fingers," said his assistant, Yenework Musse. And the two
kept counseling as they knew best.

But on a Saturday night in late August, the couple's 5-year-old daughter let
police into the dreary Hickory Street housing unit. Officers found the mother's
body under a bloody blanket in the basement, her throat slashed with a kitchen
knife. The father hung from a rope tied to a stair railing.

At the funeral of Melishew Terefe, 26, and her husband, Negussie Tsege, 34,
Metaferia pleaded for women from Africa and elsewhere to be more open about the
taboo topic of domestic violence.

Now, Metaferia says, "I see another tragedy coming, even as I talk to you. It
may not happen, but this is what I suspect because of the conflict, because he
beats her."

The murder-suicide sparked Sharpe-Taylor's counseling agency to set up English
courses for Ethiopian and Somali women who stay at home - many in the same
housing development - to help ease a severe isolation she says fosters and
conceals domestic problems.

The tragic end to this case was highly unusual, the conflicts that drove it less
so. Daily around St. Louis, teachers and ministers, nurses and counselors see
various aspects of the adjustment struggle played out on individual, family and
group levels.

The New American Program at Jewish Hospital cares for 1,000 Russians or Bosnians
a year. Many are trying to cope with the traumatic events that prompted them to
flee or with the gap between what they had and their status here.

"We've seen a lot of depression, especially among the elderly of all
nationalities," says director Barbara Bogomolov. "Those in their 50s are also a
vulnerable population; they often had a position of respect and never are going
to get back to where they were."

Families rendered fragile by what they've been through or simply wrestling with
the altered values encountered here try to hang together.

William Chignoli, an Argentinian-trained psychiatrist who worked with Hispanics
in Miami, has found here a nearly invisible Hispanic population with many of the
new arrivals - often Mexicans fleeing hostility in other states - isolated and
forced to work out problems alone.

"The first two years," he says, "are a very troubled, terrible time," with high
rates of separation.

When people could most use the group support of their countrymen, those from
oppressive regimes suspect one another.

"Everyone's looking over everyone's shoulder," says Father Dimitrie Vincent,
whose south St. Louis church serves Romanians and Albanians. "They're not there
for each other."

Adjustment hits adults hardest - they have the most abrupt transition to make in
the least time - but children feel the consequences.

At Soldan High School, Sheila Phillips urges her foreign students to open up -
but not too much. "It's too volative," she says. "The feelings they have to
express are not appropriate to a classroom setting."

Looking out at her students - from Vietnam and Somalia, India and Iraq and
Afghanistan - she estimates a quarter of their families "crack under the
pressure" of adapting, making an already-tough transition perilous for the
children.

Psychologist Leigh Barry of Children's Hospital sees youngsters who have been
compelled by language or new social skills to interpret for parents at a
doctor's or marriage counselor's office or negotiate with a landlord. This
places them in untenable situations as they hear things they shouldn't.

The children often act out their anxiety at school in what "looks like just an
undisciplined kid," she says. Social Tensions Simmer

Marvin Batey, president of the Metropolitan Business League in St. Louis, plans
to ask city aldermen to limit the "intrusion" of immigrant shopkeepers and
restaurateurs into north St. Louis.

Batey wants an ordinance requiring anyone who starts a business to live in the
same ward as the enterprise.

"In the black communities, it's open shop," he says, "so we must close our
borders."

The business league is a small player here, but Batey's sentiments reflect
mounting hostility by some struggling urban residents against those felt to be
taking business or jobs. For their part, some immigrant entrepreneurs have
formed pejorative stereotypes of the blacks they serve, in a relationship
characterized chiefly by distance.

More broadly, such views are one flashpoint of the social or ethnic tension that
accompanies expanding immigration into St. Louis.

In some schools, especially at the middle and high school levels, immigrant
youngsters complain of frequent run-ins and taunting aimed at them, often citing
their alleged reliance on public aid. Some say that disruptive classroom
behavior by American minorities prevents them from learning.

In a few subsidized housing developments, East Africans from Ethiopia, Eritrea
and Somalia have been concentrated in what some who work with refugees call an
effort to improve the environment by putting in people with strong family values
who oppose drugs. This has created resentment among some longtime city residents
who wonder why the foreigners seem to get in quickly, though housing managers
say they go strictly by the lists.

Many newcomers feel vulnerable to street violence, even targeted. Police have
had little success combating such crime or even building trust, partly because
immigration has not been high-profile enough to force changes in the
department's recruiting requirements.

Despite some tensions between immigrants and blacks, the area has seen virtually
no ethnically driven violence. Bob Ubriaco of Crestwood, who writes about
immigration to the Midwest, worries more about a possible nativist reaction. He
speaks of a "real potential for conflict, as these groups become more and more
visible, and economic competition becomes more vicious." Search For A Voice

The Catholic Hispanic Center, on the grounds of St. Francis de Sales Church at
Gravois and Iowa, closed in September after 17 years.

The move is linked to a burgeoning debate among Hispanics here about how to find
a voice in a metropolitan area largely unaware of their presence.

Being heard here is difficult, immigrants in general say, given the
heterogeneity of the flow into St. Louis. And public issues long have been
framed solely in black and white.

Sister Alicia Alvarado arrived three years ago to run the Hispanic center and to
tend to the pastoral and social needs of Hispanics. But she quickly noticed
broad gaps in leadership and representation among a scattered and struggling
population.

Things had been much clearer at her last post in Cleveland, with a large
Hispanic population concentrated in well-defined neighborhoods, mainly Puerto
Ricans sharing a similar perspective.

Alvarado left the job at the Hispanic center to work with the Archdiocese on
integrating immigrants into existing religious organizations. She fears Mexicans
and other Latinos here risk being marginalized if they separate themselves,
because they lack the size and unity to have their own equal institutions.

Various Hispanic groups here promote cultural events, she finds, but not common
social or political goals that bridge nationalities.

"This area is a very young, fertile ground for the Hispanics," she says. "But
we've got to find a voice."

Chignoli, who counsels Hispanics, saw growing numbers of poor Mexicans and an
inability to communicate. In November he started a Spanish-language monthly to
discuss such issues as a lack of immunization among children, domestic violence
and the need to put aside divisions.

"The people don't have a sense of political participation," he says. "Their goal
is to work hard and go back home, so they ignore the problems. But the reality
is they will stay here." Shape Of St. Louis

Immigration here is relatively small, though now growing. It's diverse, with
many small-to-mid-sized groups, none dominant enough to command attention. And
it's geographically dispersed, lacking ethnic enclaves.

This configuration helps make things seem calm because immigration is less
evident and acrimony curbed, but it poses challenges for newcomers and those who
work with them.

St. Louis doesn't offer immigrants the luxury of initially functioning within a
familiar language and culture. This may help people integrate more fully in the
long term, because they have less choice about learning new ways, but it makes
the initial transition more abrupt.

A State Department official involved in refugee placement cites a "debate about
survive or thrive" - whether newcomers should be placed in a comfortable setting
where they can blend in and survive, or put in a riskier situation, such as a
St. Louis, where they might thrive.

For those who provide services to immigrants, too, St. Louis is a challenge.
Dealing with immigrants effectively, whether in classrooms or health care
facilities, requires knowledge of their specific cultures and problems - far
easier where one or two nationalities dominate.

That's because "cultural competence," not merely sensitivity, is key. Without
it, a hospital social worker here mistakenly takes a child from a mother he
suspects of abuse for what simply is traditional treatment for a fever. Or a
teacher points his finger at a Bosnian youngster who panics, thinking he's
marked for death.

In addition, the lack of major immigration from a few countries has led to a
paucity of bilingual and bicultural professionals setting up shop over the years
to meet the needs of newcomers from their homeland.

Only recently has the area reached a critical mass prompting new arrivals to put
down roots. In the 1970s and early 1980s, as immigration to the United States
picked up after a lengthy lull, many who came to St. Louis soon left for areas
with more immigrants, services and jobs.

The earlier departures have a continuing effect, because initial waves
emigrating from a country tend to be the most urbanized, educated and mobile.
Those who follow often are more rural, with fewer job or language skills, though
they usually find their paths eased by the pioneers.

In St. Louis, many of the first wave of Vietnamese from the mid-1970s, for
instance, immediately left for California. As a result, the Vietnamese fishermen
or farmers who came in the wave of the late 1980s had less help.

Such a vacuum has spurred the development of some innovative private programs to
deal with adjustment problems - the New American Program for Russians and
Bosnians, the Vietnamese clinic.

But it has led to gaps in dealing with personal or family adjustment issues,
especially among smaller groups of immigrants or refugees.

"There's a huge population out there that's just dangling," says Bogomolov,
whose New American Program has had to quickly expand to take on people from 15
other language groups. "Just A Debate"

Immigration to St. Louis and its impact here, long disguised by its diversity
and dispersal, is reaching a point where its own momentum will cause it to grow
more rapidly and become more noticeable, experts agree.

The area will likely see a continuation of the factors that in recent years have
led immigration to increase faster here than nationally: the pull of a favorable
job market and low costs, coupled with the push of hostility and shrinking
services elsewhere.

Refugee resettlement, sparked largely by the State Department's having judged
St. Louis a favorable site, means government policy will feed the flow beyond
the individual decisions thousands of immigrants make.

The reaching of a critical mass is suggested by the emerging immigrant business
district along South Grand Boulevard and the growing residential cluster in that
area. And that itself will act as a drawing card.

Once a flow is established to a given place, immigration often assumes a dynamic
of its own, with relatives and friends joining those already there and
businesses following specific labor pools, in turn spurring more movement.

So the personal and family adjustment struggles will only become more numerous.

Beyond that, the low-level social, ethnic and racial tensions will likely gain
in intensity as groups of immigrants become more visible.

For several decades, the flow here consisted chiefly of immigrants drawn by
large medical and scientific sectors: Chinese engineers, Filipino doctors,
Chilean lawyers. They lived throughout the suburbs and drew little notice,
facing language and cultural barriers or generational conflicts but possessing
resources. In recent years, refugees have increasingly settled in urban St.
Louis, with poorer and perhaps illegal aliens moving nearby. While the latter
two groups have tougher personal adjustment problems, immigrants and refugees
generally are beginning to see signs of friction and to seek representation.

The risk, some suggest, is that if the conflicts are not addressed while
manageable, solutions will be more elusive.

That may be all the more true because anti-immigrant sentiment appears to erupt
most fiercely in places least familiar with immigrants and their cultures -
where they are seen as truly alien. In coastal or border states, with more
immigrants, there may be greater outward hostility, but there also are more
personal ties and cultural familiarity.

The ability of the new groups to find a voice appears crucial both to expressing
their needs and to resolving strife that may arise.

For example, Harold Law, president of the Organization of Chinese Americans and
head of a successful engineering and technology firm in Maryland Heights, is
wrestling with how to make a presence felt in community affairs.

The 7,500 Chinese here are the biggest group after Mexicans but have been
relatively uninvolved politically, because they are absorbed in their careers
and have little visibility, Law says.

That allowed last year's exclusion of Asian-Americans from St. Louis'
affirmative action program, he suggests. It also makes it difficult to respond
to animosity between some blacks and Asians, to increased targeting by criminals
of Chinese homes and restaurants, or to bias against Asian immigrants in
business.

How issues of adjustment are dealt with is what matters most about immigration,
contends Sister Mary Louise Stubbs, the driving force behind the Vietnamese
clinic.

"The numbers debate is just a debate," she says. "Once people are here, however
and for whatever reason they came, how they adjust is going to make a difference
to the future of this country."

LOAD-DATE: December 18, 1995

LANGUAGE: English

GRAPHIC: PHOTO; (1) Color Photo by Wendi Fitzgerald/Post-Dispatch - Dr.
Sudhirkumar Shah and his wife, Sonal Shah, from India, wait to be sworn in as
citizens this month at the federal courthouse downtown. Son Saager, 2, is a U.S.
citizen by birth. Naturalizations are rising here and elsewhere, in part a
response to talk of tough immigration legislation. (2) Color Photo by Wendi
Fitzgerald/Post-Dispatch - Khadija Yusuf, from Ethiopia, (foreground) and Mino
Said, of Somalia, take a break from their studies at the International
Institute. It is the biggest resettlement agency in the St. Louis area and helps
refugees adapt to life here. (3) Photo by Wendi Fitzgerald/Post-Dispatch - Gedlu
Metaferia, whose Ethiopian Community Association helps immigrants from several
East African countries, had a novel approach to adapting when he moved here a
decade ago: He read as much of Missourian Mark Twain's work as he could. A U.S.
citizen as of Oct. 6, here Metaferia greets Ayelu Haileyesus as Ayanaw Asnakew
watches. (4) Photo by Wendi Fitzgerald/Post-Dispatch - Cuong Nguyen (far left),
from Vietnam, listens intently to a mid-level English class at the International
Institute. In an area like St. Louis, without ethnic enclaves that immigrants
can take cover in as they gradually adapt, learning English becomes all the more
important. (5) Color Photo - Soon Sik Noh from Korea, Boris Tsukerman from
Russia and Vinh Quang Duong from Vietnam smile after becoming U.S. citizens here
earlier this month. (Three Star edition - Page 1A)

                  Copyright 1995 St. Louis Post-Dispatch, Inc.


                              190 of 308 DOCUMENTS

                       St. Louis Post-Dispatch (Missouri)

               December 17, 1995, Sunday, FIVE STAR LIFT Edition

SOMETIMES HELP WITH FINDING A JOB ISN'T WHAT THE NEWCOMER NEEDS MOST

BYLINE: Philip Dine Of the Post-Dispatch Staff

SECTION: WAR PAGE; Pg. 4B

LENGTH: 298 words


REFUGEES HERE often get placed in jobs well before their eligibility for
assistance and instruction ends.

That's good because they get on their feet fast, says the State Department,
citing this as a reason it funnels newcomers to St. Louis.

Maybe not, counter some refugees, who argue that starting entry-level work
before they've honed language or other skills may provide immediate benefits but
limits future mobility.

Anna Crosslin, director of the International Institute, says quick job placement
is "not a social-work decision, it's driven by Congress. Early employment is the
way they evaluate resettlement agencies like mine."

This is just one example of the complex issues at work in the adjustment of
immigrants and refugees.

Today's newcomers are increasingly diverse and have broader cultural or
technological chasms to bridge. Most move into cities full of economic problems
and ethnic tensions.

Unlike the last great wave of immigrants when men often came alone, bringing
spouses and children once established here, today's frequently consist of entire
families. That makes for complex adjustment dynamics.

Mounting political hostility in coastal or border states pushes some to
less-saturated areas, which offer tranquility but more isolation.

And an increasing portion of the overall immigrant stream consists of refugees,
asylum seekers and illegal aliens, whose adaptation may be toughest.

"There's still very little we know about some of these large-scale dynamics,"
says Ruben Rumbaut of Michigan State University, who since 1991 has led the
nation's largest study of immigrant children. "The real policy issues in the
future are going to be the adaptation of these people, rather than just the
sheer fact of how many come through the border."

LOAD-DATE: December 17, 1995

LANGUAGE: English

                  Copyright 1995 St. Louis Post-Dispatch, Inc.


                              191 of 308 DOCUMENTS

                       St. Louis Post-Dispatch (Missouri)

               December 17, 1995, Sunday, FIVE STAR LIFT Edition

IMMIGRANTS ENTER A VOLATILE ENVIRONMENT

BYLINE: Philip Dine Of the Post-Dispatch Staff

SECTION: WAR PAGE; Pg. 5B

LENGTH: 615 words


THE NATURE and size of the stream of newcomers propel the expanding debate over
immigration. But domestic changes lend much of the edge.

Economics. Surging immigration has coincided with economic stagnation, layoffs
and pessimism. For the first time, Americans doubt their children will do as
well as they did. Polls show many worry about job competition from immigrants or
their impact on budget deficits.

Past business slowdowns led to immigration pauses. But the current flow has
continued unabated, in part because it is less tied to the domestic economy or
job skills, and more driven by personal considerations such as family
reunification or political persecution.

The 2 million illegal aliens in California make up half the nation's
undocumented. They fill hospital emergency rooms and classrooms, feeding
concerns over public spending.

Politics. Large influxes have made immigration a consuming political issue in
coastal or border states like California, Florida and Texas. Domestic population
shifts southward and westward have given those three states more than half the
electoral votes needed to win the presidency - elevating their concerns to the
national level.

External politics also plays a role. During the Cold War, those who sought to
come here generally could count on public support because they demonstrated the
appeal of the American system. That prod now is gone; in an ironic turn of
events some even suggest the search for a menace to replace Soviet communism has
settled on immigrants.

Competence. Anxiety over immigration appears in part related to a dip in public
confidence in government, sparked by such problems as poorly protected borders.

Given its history, the United States should set policy standards for the world,
says former St. Louis County Executive Gene McNary, who ran the Immigration and
Naturalization Service in the Bush administration. "But people look at us and
say our own immigration policy is out of control."

Some critics assert that even legal immigration reflects policy run amok. Former
Sen. Eugene McCarthy says he co-sponsored the 1965 law to eliminate bias, after
assurances from the bill's architects that the overall volume and job-based
nature of immigration would not change.

They were wrong, McCarthy says, because they didn't consider the family dynamics
in the bill or the hopes it would raise. The result is that exploding population
and despair in poor countries have been allowed to "wrest control of U.S.
immigration policy."

Philosophy. Diversity is what America is all about, say immigration advocates,
noting how often in the past critics looked back fondly on earlier waves but
with intolerance on current ones.

It's a new playing field, respond antagonists: Multiculturalism means newcomers
are less expected to adapt to American values and culture. Affirmative action
means immigration expands protected groups at the expense of longtime residents.
The rise of a welfare state means immigrants stay whether they succeed or not.

An intriguing split has developed on the right. Free-market conservatives like
Jack Kemp and William Bennett maintain that immigrants embody endangered
American values of initiative, hard work, family, religion, community. Cultural
conservatives such as Pat Buchanan contend they threaten national unity by
bringing divergent perspectives to a land less and less willing to deem its own
values superior.

Liberals are seeing their own rift, with some saying that anti-immigrant
sentiment stems from racism, while foes counter that in practice the newly
diverse population will compete with blacks and draw attention from the
injustices they still face.

LOAD-DATE: December 17, 1995

LANGUAGE: English

GRAPHIC: PHOTO; Photo Headshots: Steve Legomsky, expert on immigration policy
Gene McNary, former immigration and Naturalization Service commissioner Eugene
McCarthy, former U.S. senator from Minnesota

                  Copyright 1995 St. Louis Post-Dispatch, Inc.


                              192 of 308 DOCUMENTS

                       St. Louis Post-Dispatch (Missouri)

               December 17, 1995, Sunday, FIVE STAR LIFT Edition

IN 1860, FULLY HALF OF ST. LOUIS RESIDENTS WERE FOREIGN BORN

SECTION: WAR PAGE; Pg. 5B

LENGTH: 167 words


A CENTURY-PLUS AGO, St. Louis was the nation's immigration capital.

Half the 160,000 residents in 1860 were foreign-born, the highest portion of any
city, according to the Missouri Historical Society's Elizabeth Armstrong and
Kathy Corbett.

Most immigrants were German (27 percent of St. Louisans) or Irish (16 percent),
with English, French, Swiss and Bohemians sprinkled in.

German writers had touted Missouri farmland as similar to the Rheinland, while
many Irish entered the port of New Orleans and St. Louis was the first major
city they encountered heading north.

St. Louis' moment faded as new immigrants sought industrial jobs in the
Northeast and as Chicago dominated the Heartland. By 1920, St. Louis was at the
other extreme, with the nation's lowest foreign-born population.

In recent years, the number has edged upward. Today's 80,000 foreign-born
residents are, coincidentally, the same number as in 1860, but they live among a
metropolitan population of 2.5 million.

LOAD-DATE: December 17, 1995

LANGUAGE: English

                  Copyright 1995 St. Louis Post-Dispatch, Inc.


                              193 of 308 DOCUMENTS

                       St. Louis Post-Dispatch (Missouri)

                December 20, 1995, Wednesday, FIVE STAR Edition

ST. LOUIS' INVISIBLE POPULATION

SECTION: EDITORIAL; Pg. 6B

LENGTH: 448 words


The illuminating, often fascinating look by Post-Dispatch reporter Philip Dine
into the growing but largely invisible immigrant population in St. Louis no
doubt shook up many people's perceptions. Far from being seen as a magnet for
various cultures like New York, Miami, Los Angeles or even Chicago, the St.
Louis area was considered barely touched by the most recent of the immigration
waves that have shaped the United States.

Though the changing of the local landscape was quiet, it will leave a lasting
impression. Whether the changes are for the better or worse will depend a lot on
how seriously local residents and officials learn the lessons in multicultural
awareness and sensitivity that Mr. Dine and others are trying to teach.

One of the biggest of those lessons is tolerance. Scattered among the 2.5
million residents of the area are 80,000 foreign-born residents - up nearly 70
percent in the last five years. By the year 2000, the number is expected to top
100,000. Some are here illegally, but far more came through legal channels.
These relatively recent immigrants include scores of nationalities - Vietnamese,
Iraqis, Filipinos, Chinese, Japanese, Serbs, Croats, Ethiopians, Haitians,
Eritreans, Israelis, Greeks, Czechs, Bosnians, Somalis, Pakistanis, Koreans,
Hispanics from various countries and many more.

As a so-called "cluster site" for political refugees, St. Louis is home to many
newcomers who fled under desperate circumstances. Others came to seek the same
kind of new, richer life that lured earlier generations from Europe. All bring
expectation laced with anxiety, hope tinged with fear.

The fact that so many people have entered the area so unobtrusively is, in one
way, a hopeful sign. Maybe a region where black-white relations are often
strained has grown up a bit and is able to accept newcomers, many with dark skin
and different ways, without disorientation or dissent. Maybe, though, the
immigrant populations are still too diffuse to have registered on the local
consciousness. Maybe the problems of assimilation that so many other areas have
suffered are still to come.

Ideally, the problems never will happen. In many cases, the new arrivals will
need help getting settled, sometimes starting over at a rung far below the
status they left behind. Government services may be taxed more heavily than
before. In time, the immigrants' contributions to the area will more than make
up for what they require. The national mosaic has changed, and the picture in
St. Louis is changing along with it. People whose ancestors came from other
shores in the past should embrace the evolution, not try to raise the drawbridge
behind them.

LOAD-DATE: December 20, 1995

LANGUAGE: English

TYPE: EDITORIAL

                  Copyright 1995 St. Louis Post-Dispatch, Inc.


                              194 of 308 DOCUMENTS

                       St. Louis Post-Dispatch (Missouri)

               December 24, 1995, Sunday, FIVE STAR LIFT Edition

NO BRITISH RESERVE DURING IN-FLIGHT FRACAS

BYLINE: The Associated Press

SECTION: TRAVEL; Pg. 2T

LENGTH: 193 words

DATELINE: MINNEAPOLIS


FIFTEEN TRAVELERS were sent back to London last week after a food fight broke
out during a Northwest Airlines flight, officials said.

Two others were being held last weekby the Immigration and Naturalization
Service while they sobered up, and a third was arrested for allegedly taking a
swing at a flight attendant.

Northwest spokeswoman Marta Laughlin said the travelers, who were from three
families, didn't like having their drinking limited on the flight, which
originated in London, made a scheduled stop in Minneapolis, then continued on to
Los Angeles.

They began throwing food, yelling and swearing, the airline said. Laughlin said
she was told that children in the group were sent to steal liquor from the
flight attendants' beverage carts.

Federal officials herded aside all 18 people, ranging in age from about 4 to 65,
after the flight landed in the Twin Cities. They held British or Irish
passports.

Immigration and Naturalization Service agent Crestino Gonzales said members of
the group were sent back to London because of misrepresentations about their
destination and inconsistent accounts of the purpose of their trip.

LOAD-DATE: December 24, 1995

LANGUAGE: English

                  Copyright 1995 St. Louis Post-Dispatch, Inc.


                              195 of 308 DOCUMENTS

                       St. Louis Post-Dispatch (Missouri)

              December 27, 1995, Wednesday, FIVE STAR LIFT Edition

CUBAN IMMIGRANTS FACE HARDSHIPS KEEPING AFLOAT IN FLORIDA; JOBS SCARCE, BUT NEW
LIFE A MUST, AID WORKERS SAY

BYLINE: David Adams St. Petersburg Times

SECTION: WAR PAGE; Pg. 5C

LENGTH: 891 words

DATELINE: MIAMI


EACH WEEK, ABOUT 500 Cuban rafters land in Miami on humanitarian flights as the
camps close down.

Once there were 30,000 at Guantanamo Bay, Cuba. By February the base will be
empty of refugees, concluding another chapter in the exodus from Fidel Castro's
Cuba.

The Miami economy is sluggish, and resettlement workers confess that they are
hard-pressed to meet the needs of the new arrivals. The last thing they need
right now is a backlash.

But in the end, they expect most of the rafters to fit in just fine. And the
process of absorbing thousands of new Cuban immigrants must go on, refugee aid
workers say.

Under an immigration agreement with Cuba last year, the resettlement will
continue for years to come.

As part of the agreement that ended the 1994 exodus, President Bill Clinton
agreed to accept 20,000 new Cuban immigrants annually. That number is reduced to
15,000 for the first few years to compensate for the Guantanamo influx.

It is too early for detailed studies to show how the rafters have fared. But
early indications show they have encountered mixed fortunes. Although most are
able to settle in surprisingly fast, with the support of friends and relatives,
a few have fallen by the wayside.

Federally funded agencies involved in refugee resettlement all report
difficulties. Although thousands rhave found jobs, later arrivals are having a
harder time.

The job market is saturated, and some rafters have encountered a familiar
problem: unscrupulous employers who prefer to hire cheap, illegal workers. One
agency reports that in recent months for every 100 new rafter clients, it can
find only 25 jobs.

Some rafters are leaving Florida in search of greater opportunities elsewhere in
the United States.

After three months of fruitless job-hunting, Victor Pomiel, 35, signed up last
week for a job in Alabama with Tyson, a large poultry processing company that
has hired about 150 rafters in recent weeks.

"There's no work here, not a thing," he said, as he packed his belongings into
the van of a Tyson recruiter. He has a warning for Miami: "If no jobs are
created pretty soon, there's going to be a new Mafia here. The only way to
survive will be crime."

Initially, many rafters stayed with relatives who had promised to sponsor them
during their first months in the country. But cramped conditions and personal
problems in some cases resulted in a breakdown of family relations.

Low-cost housing is also tough to find, and many rafters find themselves forced
to share rented homes with the same people they shared tents with in Guantanamo.
A handful have ended up on the streets, homeless.

"There are jobs; the problem is that the rafters often aren't qualified for
them," said Francisco Mora of the Guantanamo Refugee Assistance Project, or
GRASP, a private-sector group backed by the United Way.

Each morning, Mora searches a list of employment opportunities using computer
data updated daily by the Department of Labor.

Mora, who arrived from Cuba with his wife and two small children in July, says
the rafters face three main problems: a lack of English, a lack of professional
experience in the capitalist system and a lack of mobility because of Miami's
poor public transportation system.

Many have good educations. About 55 percent have a high school diploma, and 10
percent have more.

But those with skills - medicine, accounting, engineering - have trouble finding
work in their field. To pick up their careers in Florida they must first pass a
rigorous examination in English, which can require a few years of preparation.
In the meantime, they are deemed overqualified for many manual jobs.

Complicating their situation, many rafters arrive with unrealistic notions of
life in America. "It's always difficult at the start for any immigrant,
especially coming from a paternalistic society like Cuba," said Louise
Valdes-Fauli, who has taken 18 months leave from her job as a business
consultant after volunteering to help run GRASP.

Used to living in a communist society where the state is the sole provider of
jobs, food and housing, most rafters are almost total strangers to American
individualism and private enterprise.

But the most highly motivated rafters left Cuba precisely because their
creativity was being stifled, and they bring with them a wide variety of talents
that should serve them well in Miami.

Valdes-Fauli says the rafters present Miami with potential, not problems. It
took ingenuity to build seaworthy rafts in a country with no hardware stores. It
took courage to brave the Florida Straits, and it took physical and mental
endurance to survive for a year in Guantanamo.

"This is an opportunity to make Miami a better place," she says. "The rafters
have so much to offer. They have all had to survive with nothing, so they have
developed incredible living skills."

Critics of U.S. immigration policy say the rafters are a second Mariel,
recalling the exodus from Cuba in 1980 that brought about 120,000 Cubans to
Miami in only a few weeks. But experts strongly disagree, pointing out that
during Mariel, Castro opened Cuba's prisons to allow thousands of criminals to
leave the country.

Nothing similar occurred during the summer of 1994. Indeed, rafters arriving now
from Guantanamo have been screened by immigration officials.

LOAD-DATE: December 27, 1995

LANGUAGE: English

                  Copyright 1995 St. Louis Post-Dispatch, Inc.


                              196 of 308 DOCUMENTS

                       St. Louis Post-Dispatch (Missouri)

              December 30, 1995, Saturday, FIVE STAR LIFT Edition

AT YEAR'S END, WE HEAR FROM A FEW ONCE-PUBLIC FIGURES

BYLINE: Christine Bertelson

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 1B

LENGTH: 848 words

CHRISTINE BERTELSON COLUMN


FINDING MYSELF in a contemplative, end-of-the-year, stock-taking mode, I got to
wondering about some local newsmakers we don't hear from much anymore.

I did a little checking around and caught up with a few names you might remember
from the limelight.

Gene McNary: The former St. Louis County executive and commissioner of the U.S.
Immigration and Naturalization Service during the Bush administration lives in
Clarkson Valley and practices law.

"I'm enjoying life as a humble lawyer," McNary said. "My practice is primarily
immigration, which I learned to love as commissioner of the INS."

Rather than cracking down on illegal aliens, McNary now helps foreign and
domestic companies get work permits for employees here.

In his spare time, the 60-year-old McNary has taken up basketball. He plays
every week in an over-40 league at the Missouri Athletic Club.

"When you're 5-foot-10, you play guard and try not to get hurt," he said. "I
shoot from the outside."

George Peach: The former St. Louis circuit attorney is living a life of
obscurity, trying to find steady work as a private investigator under the name
GAP Litigation Services. Peach has avoided the media since his fall from grace
in 1992.

As a prosecutor for nearly 16 years, Peach was a strong crusader against
pornography. As a man, sex was his undoing. Peach resigned after it was
disclosed that he had filched thousands of dollars from his office fund and paid
for the services of prostitutes. Peach pleaded guilty to two felony theft
charges, was put on probation and was disbarred.

"He's trying to rebuild his life from the ground up," said a former prosecutor
who worked for Peach. "He's a tragic figure."

Cissy Lacks: The talented, controversial high school English teacher, fired by
the Ferguson-Florissant School District for allegedly allowing her students to
use profanity in a creative writing assignment, is working for the Missouri
Energy Resources Project. Lacks helps develop educational materials on
environmental issues. She has also lectured in the community on a subject on
which she has bitter first-hand experience: classroom censorship.

"She tried to get several teaching jobs, but nobody will touch her," said Lacks'
attorney, Lisa Van Amburg. "She is working for a fraction of her former salary."

Van Amburg represents Lacks in a suit against the school district, set on the
federal trial docket of Judge Catherine Perry in November.

In February, NBC's news magazine "Dateline" plans to air a lengthy segment on
censorship in the classroom, featuring Lacks.

Dewey Crump: The former hard-partying Democratic Missouri legislator from
Maryland Heights, acquitted last year of trying to block a state insurance fraud
investigation, has settled down at last.

Or so says his friend and former attorney, Chris Hogan, who handled Crump's
cocaine possession appeal in 1990 (he was convicted and served 12 months and 12
days) and helped him beat the wire and mail fraud conspiracy rap.

Crump, 49, is living with his sister in Bridgeton and sells a line of health and
nutrition food products. Hogan said one of Crump's potions helped rid her of a
blood disease.

"He's really a family guy," said Hogan, who sees Crump and his longtime
significant other, paralegal Linda Nunn, socially. "He dotes on his niece and
nephew and goes to all their school functions. He is the godparent to my
10-year-old. I never thought he was that wild in the first place."

Vincent C. Schoemehl: The former mayor of St. Louis is now in corporate
development for the Jefferson/Keeler Printing Co. in St. Louis. Besides his day
job, Schoemehl is a broadcaster on KMOX with a regular Sunday slot, 4-6 p.m. in
the summer and 6-8 p.m. in the winter, "except during times of intense interest
in sports, like the playoffs." He also provides political commentary for KSDK.

His plans?

"The same as for the last 12 years," Schoemehl said. "Lose weight, get in shape,
same old stuff."

No politics? Never ever?

Schoemehl heaved a weary, middle-aged sigh.

"Been there. Done that."

Carl Officer: The fast-talking, slow-walking, good-looking former mayor of East
St. Louis who drove the city over the brink of bankruptcy, is the personnel
manager for his family's two funeral homes, one in East St. Louis and one in St.
Louis.

John C. Danforth: The retired U.S. senator, author and righteous champion of
Supreme Court Justice Clarence Thomas is a partner at the downtown law firm of
Bryan Cave. Danforth works Monday through Friday in the corporate and business
department at the firm.

About every other Sunday, however, you can catch a Danforth sermonizing from the
pulpit of Holy Communion Episcopal Church, which he shares with Rector Stephen
McKee. Danforth is an associate priest at Holy Communion, and donates his
services. Christine Bertelson's column appears Tuesday, Thursday and Saturday.
You can reach her on PostLine at 923-2323, then tap in 4077, by fax at 340-3050,
by e-mail at cbert@pd.stlnet.com or by writing her at the Post-Dispatch, Tucker
Blvd., St. Louis, Mo. 63101.

LOAD-DATE: December 30, 1995

LANGUAGE: English

                  Copyright 1995 St. Louis Post-Dispatch, Inc.


                              197 of 308 DOCUMENTS

                       St. Louis Post-Dispatch (Missouri)

                January 8, 1996, Monday, FIVE STAR LIFT Edition

MYTHS SPREAD BY IMMIGRANT BASHERS

BYLINE: Myriam Marquez Copright Orlando Sentinel

SECTION: EDITORIAL; Pg. 7B

LENGTH: 624 words


Here's what immigrant bashers tell us is happening with alarming consequences
for our future:

Jobs held by immigrants keep Americans unemployed, which is why the United
States must stop allowing foreigners to come over here.

And if immigrants aren't taking our jobs, they're on welfare.      That is why,
as one bill in Congress proposes, we must bar immigrants from qualifying for any
U.S. taxpayer-financed welfare program for at least 10 years after they become
American citizens.

Immigrants today, particularly those from Latin America, are different from
those who graced America's shores before; these people don't want to assimilate,
and they want to push their language and culture down our throats! That is why
Congress must make English the official U.S. language.

Here's what the immigrant-bashers won't tell us:

Most jobs taken by immigrants are jobs Americans don't want, because Americans
believe that those jobs are beneath them.

The ski slopes of Colorado offer a reality check. Colorado's ski resorts, hotels
and restaurants have to import workers from countries as far away as Mauritania,
Russia and Australia to fill openings for janitors, sales clerks and even ski
instructors. Included in Colorado's work force, of course, are the much-despised
immigrants from Latin America.

A recent report in The New York Times explained Colorado's international
labor-pool needs this way: "With American college students shunning low-status
jobs, and high housing costs scaring away American blue-collar workers, hotels,
resorts and restaurants are increasingly trying to ease an acute labor shortage
by hiring immigrants."

The immigrants aren't wealthy enough to afford Colorado's housing, either. But
they are willing to share cramped living space with other immigrants for the
opportunity to work.

The use of welfare programs by immigrants is exaggerated. What the immigrant
bashers don't mention is that much higher welfare costs were incurred throughout
the 1800s to care for immigrants. Welfare programs during that time were paid
for by private charities and city and state governments.

An article last April 26 in The Wall Street Journal debunked the myth of the
self-reliant, turn-of-the-century immigrant. "Contrary to popular myth, for
example, more than half of public welfare recipients nationwide in 1909 were
immigrant families, making new arrivals three times more likely than natives to
be on the public dole, according to research accumulated by a 1911 commission on
immigration. In Chicago, two-thirds of those receiving public assistance were
foreign born."

Compare that with 1990 census figures: About 9 percent of immigrant households
received welfare.   And only 6.5 percent of all Medicaid recipients are
immigrants. At the turn of the century, a third of the patients in public
hospitals were foreign-born, or more than twice the proportion of foreign-born
in the country, the Journal reported.

"There is no denying that today's costs are high, but in many cases those of a
century ago were, proportionately, even higher, as a review of census documents,
government investigations and yellowing academic tomes shows," the Journal
concluded.

As far as today's immigrants shunning English, that's just not true. The census
shows that about 95 percent of U.S. residents older than age 4 speak English.
And more than 85 percent of the children of immigrant families speak English
fluently within three years of getting instruction.

There's every reason to want to protect jobs and ensure that the nation is bound
together by a common language. The facts simply don't support the immigrant
bashers' contentions, though, that most of today's immigrants are bad for the
nation.

LOAD-DATE: January 8, 1996

LANGUAGE: English

                  Copyright 1996 St. Louis Post-Dispatch, Inc.


                              198 of 308 DOCUMENTS

                       St. Louis Post-Dispatch (Missouri)

                  January 21, 1996, Sunday, THREE STAR Edition

INCREASED IMMIGRATION THREATENS FLORIDA'S STABILITY, STUDY SAYS

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 3A

LENGTH: 430 words

DATELINE: MIAMI


Florida's population growth, fueled in part by immigration, threatens to
overwhelm the state, says the Center for Immigration Studies, a Washington think
tank.

Its study concludes that immigration accounts for almost one-third of the growth
in Florida's population, and it recommends federal action to halt illegal
immigration and "sharply" reduce legal immigration.

Unless population growth is curbed, the report says, Florida could be home to 22
million people by 2025; it has 14 million now. Byproducts would be strained
government services, even more crowded schools, accelerated loss of wetlands and
logjammed roads.

But even if immigration were stopped cold, said Mark Krikorian, the think tank's
executive director, that would not end problems of crowding in Florida, because
the population would continue to increase.

"Stopping immigration is no silver bullet," he said. "We would bring about no
Eden in Los Angeles or Miami if we suddenly were to keep these foreign hordes
out."

Critics quickly took issue with the study's conclusions. "A lot of it is based
on false premises," said Stuart Anderson of the Cato Institute in Washington,
which is pro-immigration. "It doesn't really add much to helping understand the
issues."

He said the study concentrates on problems associated with growth while ignoring
the benefits.

The report points out that 40 percent of Florida's immigrants have arrived since
1980. In that same period, each Floridian's income has risen nearly 23 percent,
a figure higher than the national average, according to the U.S. Bureau of
Economic Analysis.

Anderson said, "If the premise is correct that immigration, and the population
growth associated with it, is a negative force, then why do we have such obvious
indicators of well-being? We believe that, on balance, immigration is a good
thing."

The center's 15-page report concentrates mostly on the consequences of fast
population growth on schools, transportation and the environment. One projection
estimates that a new school must be built every five days for the next 25 years
to keep up with population growth.

The study acknowledges that people moving to Florida from other states are the
main factor behind the rise in population. Even if there had been no immigration
from 1960 to 1990, the authors say, Florida's population still would have
doubled in that period, mostly because of Floridians having babies and new
arrivals from the rest of the country.

But the authors say nothing can be done about that, while laws can be passed to
restrict immigration.

LOAD-DATE: January 21, 1996

LANGUAGE: English

                  Copyright 1996 St. Louis Post-Dispatch, Inc.


                              199 of 308 DOCUMENTS

                       St. Louis Post-Dispatch (Missouri)

                January 22, 1996, Monday, FIVE STAR LIFT Edition

IMMIGRANT CHILDREN HELP PARENTS GET THEIR WORD'S WORTH

BYLINE: Kristina Sauerwein Of The Post-Dispatch Staff

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 1B

LENGTH: 991 words


The difference in pronunciation difference between mat and math confounds
9-year-olds Edisa Nasufovic and Nasteho Abdullahi.

Inside Room 201 at Wyman Elementary School, the girls giggled and wiggled late
last week as they sounded out letters in their third-grade English as a Second
Language class.

"Maa-ath," said Nasteho, a native of Somalia.

"Tee, tee, tee," rebutted the Bosnian-born Edisa, pronouncing a hard T. Edisa
smiled, squirmed and clapped her hands. "We learning English," she said. "We go
home and teach."

Nasteho nodded. "I teach my family."

So do most of the students in the English as a Second Language classes that
Kathy Hynes teaches at Wyman, on Theresa Avenue. "Adults don't seem to learn a
new language as quickly as children," Hynes said. "It's very common for these
children to be more proficient in English than their parents."

This means that immigrant and refugee children of all ages, thrust into a school
environment where they are forced to learn the new ways quickly, are translating
conversations and interpreting official documents and everyday writings for
their parents.

As the number of foreign-born families coming to St. Louis steadily rises - with
the arrival of Mexican immigrants and refugees from Bosnia, Vietnam, Africa and
the Caribbean - educators and counselors say that more and more children are
becoming, informally at least, "English teachers."

To reduce the problems that can result from this - including skewed family
structures and undue pressure on youngsters already facing far more than their
share of pressure - the St. Louis public schools are trying to form closer ties
with the parents.

Starting today, Nahed Chapman, a bilingual specialist who worked with English
language students in Kansas City, will occupy a new position in St. Louis called
parent liaison. Her job will involve: talking with students, parents and
educators in the district's 14 schools offering English as a Second Language;
determining if parents need help learning "survival English"; and providing
information about St. Louis and America.

The effects of having children serve as interpreters - both literally of the
language and figuratively of the new culture - can range from incorrect English
usage to severed cultural ties, to family tension erupting after a child assumes
an adult role and a parent a subservient one.

"Children often become the power brokers," said Margaret Silver, director of
education at the International Institute, which resettles refugees in the St.
Louis area. "These children assume a great deal of responsibility. The
role-reversal can make it difficult for parents to provide the parenting skills
they'd normally apply if they were in their own culture."

Such situations can make children and parents feel angry, sad or guilty, said
Carole Yard, who counsels English language students in the Pattonville School
District. The increase in English as a Second Language students there has
consisted mostly of Hispanics and Asians.

In the Vietnamese culture, for example, children don't tell parents what to do,
Yard said. So a Vietnamese child who translates instructions for a parent might
shut down emotionally for seemingly disrespecting an elder while the parent
battles bruised pride.

The situation also causes many foreign-born youths to reject their culture, she
said, since being the family interpreter highlights cultural differences. "Most
children are embarrassed when their parents are different," said Yard, who grew
up in a bilingual family. "They can also feel bad for feeling this way."

Psychologists, counselors and others who help immigrants and refugees in the
area say their work often is impeded when children translate for parents,
because certain topics suddenly seem too sensitive.

All this compounds the stress and uncertainty that families normally experience
after moving to a new country, said Beverly Sporleder, an instructor in social
work at the University of Missouri at St. Louis.

Public school officials in St. Louis acknowledge the inherent rol e-reversal and
its possible consequences. That's why Nabila Salib, supervisor of language
programs, says that she applied for and - just before the start of this school
year - received a federal grant to help students and their parents with limited
or no English skills. This is a school population that has doubled to roughly
1,500 in the past five years, and one that is increasingly weekly.

Much of the grant - $ 3 million over five years - will focus on parents, Salib
said, "because educating them is the best way to help students learn."

One way to do that is to offer parents classes in basic English, Salib said. The
district already works with the International Institute, which provides free
lessons six days a week. But schools need to do work on theirown to keep up with
the increase of families learning English, Salib  said. And classes offered by
the district would teach parents about how the educational system works and also
listen to their concerns.

School officials hope to start by next school year. And though the region as a
whole has seen a sharp increase in recent years in the flow of foreign-born
residents, the need to help parents with language is perhaps greatest in the
city of St. Louis - because that is where most refugees settle, at least
initially. Unlike immigrants, refugees did not plan to come here but instead
fled their native land, and thus they had less time to prepare linguistically
and culturally.

Wyman Principal John Phillips said that offering English classes for parents
adheres to the school's philosophy of reaching out. Many immigrant parents work
up to 12-hour shifts or hold several jobs, sometimes at near-minimum wage, and
scheduling can require flexibility.

"The school is a community of learners," he said. "This includes the parents. If
we don't have the parents, we don't have the kids."

LOAD-DATE: January 22, 1996

LANGUAGE: English

GRAPHIC: PHOTO; Color Photos by Loren Callahan/Post-Dispatch (1) ABOVE: My Phuc
Nguyen, a student at the International Studies Middle School, started learning
English in 1993, when she moved to the U.S. with her family from Vietnam. (2)
RIGHT: My Phuc and her father, Thanh Veien Nguyen, attend a high school
orientation on Sunday. She shares the English skills that she learns with her
family. (PHOTOS APPEAR IN THREE STAR EDITION ONLY)

TYPE: PROFILE IMMIGRANT CHILDREN

                  Copyright 1996 St. Louis Post-Dispatch, Inc.


                              200 of 308 DOCUMENTS

                       St. Louis Post-Dispatch (Missouri)

               January 25, 1996, Thursday, FIVE STAR LIFT Edition

OFFICIALLY ENGLISH? DEBATE IS ON; FRIENDS, FOES OF BILL LECTURE LEGISLATORS

BYLINE: Terry Ganey Post-Dispatch Jefferson City Bureau Chief

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 1B

LENGTH: 648 words

DATELINE: JEFFERSON CITY


For the first five years of Laurie Donovan's life, Italian was the only language
she knew. Her parents, both immigrants, spoke only Italian at their home in
Little Falls, N.Y., and the language was common among their neighbors.

When Donovan, whose maiden name was Biasi, was in kindergarten, her teacher came
to her home and gave a strongly worded message - in English - to her parents.

"You've got to start speaking English to your children," Donovan, 63, recalled
the teacher saying. "That motivated my parents to stop speaking Italian. They
were forced to learn English."

Now a member of the Missouri Legislature, Donovan favors a bill that would make
English the state's official language. She said it would encourage immigrants to
study written and spoken English. A government that does its business in foreign
languages accommodates those who have not learned English, Donovan said.

A Republican from Florissant, Donovan is a member of the House Committee on
Miscellaneous Bills, which heard one version of an English language bill on
Wednesday. The bill, sponsored by Rep. Dick Franklin, D-Independence, does not
require all Missourians to speak English. It says that English is the state's
official language and that courts may not consider claims against the state for
failure to print public documents in anything other than English.

Missouri makes some forms and documents available in languages other than
English. For example, the Revenue Department's written test for a drivers
license is printed in 11 languages.

Franklin said that is costly for state and local governments. According to the
Los Angeles Times, the city of Los Angeles spent $ 900,000 to print ballots in
six languages during the special mayoral election in 1993. California offers
drivers license tests in 35 different languages.

"We are not saying English is the best language in the world," Franklin said.
"But it is the world's language for commerce, science, technology and medicine."

Twenty-two states, including Illinois, have passed official English laws.
Franklin said that statistics show 97 percent of Americans speak English well
and that a survey in Missouri showed 82 percent favored making English the
state's official language.

During the hearing, two people opposed the bill and two spoke in favor.

Robert Simms, a lobbyist for an organization called U.S. English, said
differences in language between French-speaking Quebec and the rest of
English-speaking Canada was a key in Quebeckers' separatist movement.

"A common language is a unifying factor that transcends culture, heritage and
ideological backgrounds," Simms said.

James S. Whitfield, a lobbyist for the American Legion, said making English the
official language does not deter schools from teaching other languages.

"Children are now taught in other languages," Whitfield said. "We do not want
this for Missouri."

David Winton, a representative of the Missouri Jewish Federations, opposed the
bill, saying it would keep immigrants from quickly launching productive lives in
Missouri. He said allowing them to take drivers tests in their own language
helps them get to work.

"If they can't read a drivers license exam, they can't drive," Winton said.
"They will remain in the social welfare system longer."

Marsha Richeson, a lobbyist for the American Civil Liberties Union, said that if
the bill became law, court documents would not have to be printed in a foreign
language.

"What about a person charged with a crime or in a civil suit?" Richeson asked.
"You don't want them to understand what's going on in a courtroom?"

Franklin said he believed that if his bill made it to the full Legislature, it
would pass overwhelmingly. In past years it has been blocked in committee, but
this year it's being heard by a different panel. The committee took no action on
the bill Wednesday .

LOAD-DATE: January 25, 1996

LANGUAGE: English

                  Copyright 1996 St. Louis Post-Dispatch, Inc.


                              201 of 308 DOCUMENTS

                       St. Louis Post-Dispatch (Missouri)

                January 29, 1996, Monday, FIVE STAR LIFT Edition

BRIDGING CULTURAL GAPS; SOUTH GRAND: CHALLENGE AND SUCCESS

BYLINE: Dan Mihelopoulos Of The Post-Dispatch Staff

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 1B

LENGTH: 725 words


DRIVEN BY THE industriousness of Asian immigrants, the bustling ethnic enclave
along South Grand Boulevard is emerging as a potential anchor for its part of
the city.

But shaky relations between police and immigrants make it difficult for officers
to learn about crimes in the neighborhood and arrest offenders.

"There's a general mistrust and tremendous underreporting of crime," says Capt.
Joe Richardson, who oversees the Third District, including the stretch of Grand
between Tower Grove Park and Gravois Avenue.

New police leadership took over in the area three weeks ago, after Ronald
Henderson was appointed chief, replacing Clarence Harmon. Maj. Roy Joachimstaler
now commands Area 1, which encompasses three districts, including South Grand's.

Last week, Richardson and Joachimstaler discussed the obstacles they must tackle
to secure South Grand's future:

Vietnamese-American hoodlums prey on other refugees, robbing residences and
shaking down businesses for "protection" money.

Immigrants who are victimized by others in their community often fail to report
the crimes because they fear reprisals.

Some Vietnamese distrust police because they had experiences with brutal and
corrupt authorities in their communist-ruled homeland.

Cultural barriers further hamper police as they try to win the trust of
immigrants. For example, what immigrants see as a healthy spanking might be
perceived by officers as child abuse.

Some youngsters, having trouble adapting to the gulf between their new society
and the traditional ways that still rule at home, lose their path. Some of them
join that ubiquitous American institution - the street gang.

A small but significant group is abandoning traditional family values and
adopting street values, said Officer Guy Sextro, who has patrolled the
neighborhood for four years.

Because many at-risk youths live in homes in which the parents don't speak
English, Sextro is trying to provide families with anti-gang literature in
Vietnamese.

At his request, students in an English as a Second Language class at Fanning
Middle School are translating the pamphlets into Vietnamese. This also will have
the benefit of reaching the students, Sextro hopes.

Some immigrant parents might be unaware of the pitfalls their children could
encounter, Sextro said. He hopes the brochures will inform parents of warning
signs of gang involvement.

A proposed study would address the problem of miscommunication among police,
residents and business owners. Police are working with the I nternational
Institute of Metro St. Louis to secure a grant for the study.

Sextro says it would help to have Vietnamese-speaking officers. The department's
language and citizenship requirements make it difficult for immigrants to join
the force. But the department won't ease its requirements or make exceptions,
Joachimstaler said.

Dr. Phuong Nguyen, a refugee who works with other Vietnamese, wants the judicial
system to crack down on criminals. Victims would be more likely to report
crimes, he says, if they knew their assailant would not be back on the streets
soon.

"No one in the community has the guts to organize businesses to protect
themselves," he said. "The gangs will put the businesses in order if the police
do not."

Police hope that immigrants will trust police more - and be less hesitant to
report crimes - as they become better acquainted with officers.

Joachimstaler plans to assign all officers working in his area to a specific
neighborhood. They would leave their neighborhoods only to respond to emergency
calls.

"People have to know officers on a personal level, not just as patrol cars going
past," he said. "We've got to make it easy for people to talk to us."

Right after assuming his new post, Richardson received a petition from 50 Tower
Grove East residents who want community policing in their neighborhood.

Sextro's ties with residents and business leaders have improved in the years he
has worked exclusively in the neighborhood, he says. Now, residents who know him
help persuade victims to speak with him about crimes.

Still, some business leaders - especially older immigrants - continue to treat
Sextro distantly, with a mixture of respect and fear, he said. He hopes that the
various measures police are taking will improve those relations.

LOAD-DATE: January 31, 1996

LANGUAGE: English

GRAPHIC: PHOTO, MAP; (1)Color photo by Kevin Manning/Post-Dispatch - Officer Guy
Sextro visits with the Trinh family at their Pho Grand Restaurant at 3191 South
Grand Boulevard. From left: Monica Trinh; Sextro; Monica's mother, Tammy Trinh;
and father, My Trinh. (2) Map - Third Police District - Map shows area south of
I-64 in the city of St. Louis bordered by Chouteau, Kingshighway and Chippewe ,
east to the Mississippi River. Insert map magnifies it and identifies streets.

                  Copyright 1996 St. Louis Post-Dispatch, Inc.


                              202 of 308 DOCUMENTS

                       St. Louis Post-Dispatch (Missouri)

                February 4, 1996, Sunday, FIVE STAR LIFT Edition

OFFICIAL ENGLISH IS AN EMPTY SYMBOL

BYLINE: Kristin Pugh

SECTION: EDITORIAL; Pg. 3B

LENGTH: 626 words

COMMENTARY COLUMN


Attempts to legislate English as Missouri's official language are heating up
again in Jefferson City. Senate Bill 655 proposes to eliminate state funding for
official public documents and records in languages other than English.

The debate rides into Missouri on the tails of national anti-immigrant backlash
and threatens to bring with it increased intolerance and hostility to cultural
diversity. In town are lobbyists from US English, an organization whose
co-founder, John Tanton, resigned after a racist internal memo he wrote was
leaked to the press in 1988. In this memo he addressed his fear that Spanish
speakers would soon seize political power from whites. In his words: "Perhaps
this is the first instance in which those with their pants up are going to get
caught by those with their pants down."

We are quick to forget our collective history lessons. There is a clear
connection between increased migration of minority immigrant populations and the
historical attempt to restrict language. This dynamic can be traced back to
German, Italian and Chinese immigrants at the turn of the century. True to form,
the growing Asian and Hispanic populations in the United States instill the same
fear in today's society; thus begins the perennial battle over English-only
legislation.

The United States is unique in that it has incorporated people from all parts of
the world and remarkable in that there has been a near mass extinction of
non-English languages. Immigrants and refugees have repeatedly demonstrated
their desire to learn English. They understand, better than anyone else, that
learning English is a basic step to finding a job, getting an education and
obtaining health care. English-as-a-second-language classes are packed full and
there are long waiting lists.

The 1980 census documented the continuing historical tendency of children of
immigrants to lose proficiency in their native language: nearly 90 percent of
Latinos 5 years old or older speak English in their house. Spanish
monolingualism, as is the case with other languages, does not outlast the first
generation. The stereotype, spread by US English, of growing "linguistic
ghettos" just does not prove true.

English-only legislation would have a powerful impact on the state. It could
potentially prohibit bilingual ballots (in direct violation of the federal
Voting Rights Act of 1965 as amended in 1975), eliminate non-English
governmental services such as courtroom translation and assistance to crime
victims in their native language, and end the publ ication of public health
information in other languages among many other results.

Basic human needs of non-English proficient communities would be threatened.
Overburdened and underfunded nonprofit organizations would feel the impact as
they struggled to meet the needs of their clients without bilingual or
multilingual state funded forms and pamphlets.

US English is not a movement about language. It centers on the struggle for
national identity and unity. Those rallying around this legislation avoid
discussion of its underlying message: Citizens not proficient in English will be
denied rights of citizenship bestowed on them by the Constitution and the Equal
Protection Clause of the 14th Amendment.

This movement reaches beyond language deep into our national psyche and offers a
deceptively simple symbol of unity. Unfortunately, its flip side is greater
intolerance and increased xenophobia.

Don't be deceived. An official language will do little to unite us as a nation.
We don't need another empty symbol of unity; we need a national commitment to
ensure that Americans, regardless of race, gender, ethnicity or language
proficiency, receive the full benefits of citizenship.

LOAD-DATE: February 5, 1996

LANGUAGE: English

                  Copyright 1996 St. Louis Post-Dispatch, Inc.


                              203 of 308 DOCUMENTS

                       St. Louis Post-Dispatch (Missouri)

                February 4, 1996, Sunday, FIVE STAR LIFT Edition

OFFICIAL ENGLISH IS AN EMPTY SYMBOL

BYLINE: Kristin Pugh

SECTION: EDITORIAL; Pg. 3B

LENGTH: 626 words


Attempts to legislate English as Missouri's official language are heating up
again in Jefferson City. Senate Bill 655 proposes to eliminate state funding for
official public documents and records in languages other than English.

The debate rides into Missouri on the tails of national anti-immigrant backlash
and threatens to bring with it increased intolerance and hostility to cultural
diversity. In town are lobbyists from US English, an organization whose
co-founder, John Tanton, resigned after a racist internal memo he wrote was
leaked to the press in 1988. In this memo he addressed his fear that Spanish
speakers would soon seize political power from whites. In his words: "Perhaps
this is the first instance in which those with their pants up are going to get
caught by those with their pants down."

We are quick to forget our collective history lessons. There is a clear
connection between increased migration of minority immigrant populations and the
historical attempt to restrict language. This dynamic can be traced back to
German, Italian and Chinese immigrants at the turn of the century. True to form,
the growing Asian and Hispanic populations in the United States instill the same
fear in today's society; thus begins the perennial battle over English-only
legislation.

The United States is unique in that it has incorporated people from all parts of
the world and remarkable in that there has been a near mass extinction of
non-English languages. Immigrants and refugees have repeatedly demonstrated
their desire to learn English. They understand, better than anyone else, that
learning English is a basic step to finding a job, getting an education and
obtaining health care. English-as-a-second-language classes are packed full and
there are long waiting lists.

The 1980 census documented the continuing historical tendency of children of
immigrants to lose proficiency in their native language: nearly 90 percent of
Latinos 5 years old or older speak English in their house. Spanish
monolingualism, as is the case with other languages, does not outlast the first
generation. The stereotype, spread by US English, of growing "linguistic
ghettos" just does not prove true.

English-only legislation would have a powerful impact on the state. It could
potentially prohibit bilingual ballots (in direct violation of the federal
Voting Rights Act of 1965 as amended in 1975), eliminate non-English
governmental services such as courtroom translation and assistance to crime
victims in their native language, and end the publ ication of public health
information in other languages among many other results.

Basic human needs of non-English proficient communities would be threatened.
Overburdened and underfunded nonprofit organizations would feel the impact as
they struggled to meet the needs of their clients without bilingual or
multilingual state funded forms and pamphlets.

US English is not a movement about language. It centers on the struggle for
national identity and unity. Those rallying around this legislation avoid
discussion of its underlying message: Citizens not proficient in English will be
denied rights of citizenship bestowed on them by the Constitution and the Equal
Protection Clause of the 14th Amendment.

This movement reaches beyond language deep into our national psyche and offers a
deceptively simple symbol of unity. Unfortunately, its flip side is greater
intolerance and increased xenophobia.

Don't be deceived. An official language will do little to unite us as a nation.
We don't need another empty symbol of unity; we need a national commitment to
ensure that Americans, regardless of race, gender, ethnicity or language
proficiency, receive the full benefits of citizenship.

LOAD-DATE: February 5, 1996

LANGUAGE: English

                  Copyright 1996 St. Louis Post-Dispatch, Inc.


                              204 of 308 DOCUMENTS

                       St. Louis Post-Dispatch (Missouri)

               February 23, 1996, Friday, FIVE STAR LIFT Edition

READING, WRITING AND CROWDING; U.S. SCHOOLS PREPARING TO DEAL WITH RECORD
ENROLLMENT

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 2A

LENGTH: 416 words

DATELINE: WASHINGTON


Children of baby boomers and immigrants will pack schools in record numbers this
fall, surpassing the surge of postwar babies that filled U.S. classrooms in the
1970s.

The estimated 51.7 million young people studying in public and private
elementary and secondary schools this fall will put further stress on districts
coping with tight budgets.

This anticipated autumn enrollment will eclipse the 51.3 million baby boomers in
classes in 1971. And enrollment is expected to keep climbing - to 55.9 million
by the year 2005.

"It's a rather dramatic increase in enrollment that we see coming. Some of it is
immigration. Some of it is the baby boom echo - the children of baby boomers,"
Education Secretary Richard Riley said Thursday.

Elementary schools began seeing rising numbers of pupils in the mid-'80s as the
children of about 76 million baby boomers headed to school, said Tom Snyder, a
Education Department statistician.

That baby boom echo is now moving through high school. Elementary schools have
continued to feel because the number of births in America, bolstered by
immigration, has remained steady in the last four or five years, Snyder said.

To meet the need for space, school districts are building schools and additions,
or making do with portable classrooms while closely watching teacher-student
ratio requirements in their states, said Michael A. Resnick, senior associate
executive director of the National School Boards Association. Some districts are
shifting students by drawing new boundarie s. Others are experimenting with
holding school year-round, he said.

In Montgomery County, Md., enrollment is growing by about 3,000 students a year,
spurred by a flow of new immigrants from El Salvador, Nicaragua, Vietnam,
Cambodia and the former Soviet Union, said Ana Sol Gutierrez, president of the
Montgomery County Board of Education.

"We have absolutely run out of classrooms. We are building schools at the rate
of one or two a year," she said.

Enrollment stands at 123,000 now and will peak at 140,000 in 2005, she said.

Growth problems are worse in Dade County, Fla., where today's enrollment of
330,000 is expected to swell by 35 percent to 445,516 in 2005.

"In south Florida, our major growth is in immigration," said Alan Olkes, chief
of staff of the Dade County public schools. "On an average day, we receive 100
new foreign-born students. We have 2,000 portable classrooms, and right now we
have 24 new schools under construction."

LOAD-DATE: February 23, 1996

LANGUAGE: English

                  Copyright 1996 St. Louis Post-Dispatch, Inc.


                              205 of 308 DOCUMENTS

                       St. Louis Post-Dispatch (Missouri)

               February 23, 1996, Friday, FIVE STAR LIFT Edition

BUCHANAN TAKES CENTER STAGE AT DEBATE

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 1A

LENGTH: 991 words

DATELINE: TEMPE, ARIZ.


Pat Buchanan bragged in a freewheeling Republican debate Thursday that the
Japanese government was nervous that he would win the presidency and demand
fairer trade rules. He vowed, if elected, to "unilaterally" end Japan's trade
surplus if necessary.

Before a noisy audience at Arizona State University, Buchanan also described his
plan to build a security fence on the U.S-Mexico border to "stop the illegal
immigration along the southern border of this country cold."

Former Tennessee Gov. Lamar Alexander, combining a critique of Buchanan's trade
and immigration views, suggested that his rival was a defeatist who wanted to
"build two walls around America."

Buchanan, the New Hampshire primary winner, was the center of attention - and
attacks - throughout a crackling 90-minute televised event five days before
Arizona's hotly contested GOP presidential primary. Buchanan often shouted as he
fought back, and had to be stopped several times by the moderator for running
over his allotted time.

Senate Majority Leader Bob Dole of Kansas took a few barbs early for being
absent. But Dole then was all but forgotten as Buchanan, Alexander and Steve
Forbes, the magazine publisher, clashed pointedly over trade, tax revision,
immigration, and, more broadly, the future direction of the Republican Party.
California Rep. Robert Dornan also took part, often acting more like a referee
than a candidate himself.

Not that there weren't areas of agreement.

All four pledged to shift control of welfare to the states and said local
control over national parks and other lands now controlled by Washington was a
good idea, too. And in a state where 13 percent of the population is 65 or
older, all four said current Social Security recipients needed to be protected
while revisions to the retirement system are discussed.

But disagreements dominated.

"Pat, I am not going to let you hijack our party," Alexander said at the outset.
Throughout the evening, he said "Buchananism" would hurt the economy by
"building a wall around the country" with protectionist trade views.

He also used Buchanan's opposition to the Persian Gulf War as evidence that
Buchanan would have the United States retreat from world affairs, which
Alexander said was ill-advised.

But Buchanan was unbowed.

Citing the giant Japanese trade surplus with the United States, Buchanan said
his message to Tokyo would be, "You're going to work out this problem or I'm
going to work it out unilaterally."

He said he was all for free trade with England and Canada and other countries
that played fair. But he said his message to communist China would be this:
"We're not treating you the same way we treat a democratic republic because
you're a brutal dictatorship."

And when Alexander promised to be tough in trade talks with the Japanese,
Buchanan shook his head in disbelief.

Buchanan turned to Alexander and said Japanese Prime Minister Ryutaro Hashimoto
"is a lot more concerned if Pat Buchanan is going to be sitting in that Oval
Office than if you're going to sit there."

Forbes sided with Alexander in the trade debate, warning against the dangers of
economic and diplomatic isolationism. "Protectionism always fails," Forbes said.
"It gave us the Great Depression."

Even as he criticized Buchanan, Alexander was careful to make clear that he
shared some of his rival's goals, if not his approaches.

Alexander, for example, promised to be tough with U.S. trading partners while
promoting open trade. And he said a wall was not the answer to stopping illegal
immigration, calling instead for a new branch of the armed forces to patrol the
borders.

Forbes took issue with that, calling it the typical reaction of a lifelong
politician. "Another agency, another government program," Forbes said with
disdain.

Forbes said illegal immigration needed to be slowed but also pointed out that
legal immigrants had helped the United States to its edge in science and
technology.

Dornan, looking left and then right, warned that all the internal bickering was
distracting Republicans from their larger cause.

"The target is (President Bill) Clinton, not one another," Dornan said.

But his entreaties were ignored, time and time again.

Forbes, hoping to revive his struggling candidacy, promoted his flat-tax plan
and played on the anti-Washington sentiment easy to find in the West, calling
for term limits and more local power over federal lands.

"Your personal freedoms are slowly slipping away into the iron grip of
government," Forbes said. "The goal of my campaign is to break that grip."

Buchanan and Alexander, too, called for more local control over national parks
and forests.

In one colorful moment, Buchanan said that environmental protection was vital
but that it sometimes went too far. He added that he had "one ad dition to the
Endangered Species Act. We're going to put Bruce Babbitt on it." Babbitt,
Clinton's interior secretary, is a former governor of Arizona.

Alexander and Buchanan joined together on the subject of the flat tax, saying
Forbes was right to advocate major tax revision but wrong to propose ending
deductions for mortgage interest and gifts to charity.

Only four of the eight GOP candidates were participating, but only Dole's
absence was an issue.

"Our nominee can't win on negative ads, endorsements and ducking idea contests
like tonight," Alexander said.

Alexander, trying to position himself as a better alternative to Buchanan than
Dole, likened the Dole campaign and its establishment support to "a navy of
admirals trying to bail out a sinking ship."

Dole, campaigning in Colorado, rejected suggestions that he was ducking debates
and said he would be in Arizona soon.

"I've been in enough debates," he said. "I debate every day in the Senate."

Arizona's 39 delegates will be decided in a primary election Tuesday. Dole
called it "a state that's bound to be very hard."

LOAD-DATE: February 23, 1996

LANGUAGE: English

GRAPHIC: PHOTO; (1) Color Photo by AP - Republican presidential hopeful Pat
Buchanan sports a Western look Thursday as he greets the crowd at the Tucson
Rodeo parade in Tucson, Ariz. (2) Photo by AP - Lamar Alexander (left) and Pat
Buchanan clash Thursday night in a televised debate of GOP presidential hopefuls
in Tempe, Ariz.

                  Copyright 1996 St. Louis Post-Dispatch, Inc.


                              206 of 308 DOCUMENTS

                       St. Louis Post-Dispatch (Missouri)

               February 27, 1996, Tuesday, FIVE STAR LIFT Edition

SHOOTING VICTIM WAS HELP TO MANY; THANH TAN LE ASSISTED VIETNAMESE IMMIGRANTS

BYLINE: Bill Bryan Of the Post-Dispatch Staff

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 1A

LENGTH: 502 words


Thanh Tan Le, 55, was a welcome sight to Vietnamese immigrants arriving in St.
Louis. He helped them find a place to live, or get their Social Security cards,
or register their children in school.

A caseworker for the International Institute of Metropolitan St. Louis, Le was a
former colonel in the South Vietnamese army. He survived his country's civil war
and eight years in a re-education camp in his homeland before coming here.

But he couldn't survive the random street violence of American life.

Le was shot in the head at point-blank range Monday with two blasts from a
12-gauge shotgun about 7 a.m. On his way to work, he was sitting behind the
wheel of his white, 1992 Camry in front of his home, at 4301 Oregon Avenue.

"The thing that always struck me about Le is that he always had a smile on his
face," said his boss, Anna Crosslin, president of the International Institute.

"That was so very important to these people, who are encountering a frightening
experience in coming to a strange country," Crosslin added. "Le's smile
delivered all sorts of positive messages."

Le's wife caught a glimpse of the shooting as she was walking out of their flat
to join him at the car.

After the shooting, the killer yanked Le from the Camry, dumped his b ody on the
street and drove off.

"We've got no motive," said Capt. Dave Heath, commander of the homicide
division. "There's no reason to suspect anything but a random carjacking."

Later Monday morning, two motorists listening to a report of the crime on KMOX
Radio heard the description of Le's car. They spotted it near Lilac Drive and
Interstate 270 in north St. Louis County and called police.

St. Louis County officers quickly located the car in the 11000 block of Dunklin
Drive in the Raintree Apartments complex.

Two suspects, 17 and 22, were arrested a short time later in a nearby apartment.
A shotgun was recovered.

Homicide detectives were seeking murder warrants Monday night. They said they
think the 22-year-old is the killer.

After the carjacking, the killer apparently drove to the Raintree Apartments,
the home of the younger suspect, where the pair washed Le's blood from the
interior of the car. Then they went and bought beer, police said.

Investigators said the suspect was wanted in St. Ann for questioning in a
drug-related shooting there last month.

'He'd Smile And Wave'

Le arrived in St. Louis in January 1994 with his wife and their three sons, who
are all in their mid-20s, said Crosslin. He joined the Institute last August.

Le spoke fluent English and French, Crosslin said. "He was a highly e ducated
individual," she added.

For a time in the 1960s, Le was his nation's military attache in neighboring
Laos.

A neighbor of the Vietnamese family, Aurora Zarattini, 67, was stunned and left
fearful by the crime outside her window. "People are telling me to get out of
the city," she said.

She said she did not know Le personally, "but every time I'd see him he'd smile
and wave."

LOAD-DATE: February 27, 1996

LANGUAGE: English

GRAPHIC: PHOTO; Color photo - Thanh Tan Le (center), the victim of a fatal
carjacking, in a family photo that includes his wife, Nhan Ho, and three sons
(from left), Toai, Huy and Danh. Le was shot in the head early Monday while he
sat in his automobile in front of his home in the 4300 block of Oregon Avenue.

                  Copyright 1996 St. Louis Post-Dispatch, Inc.


                              207 of 308 DOCUMENTS

                       St. Louis Post-Dispatch (Missouri)

              February 28, 1996, Wednesday, FIVE STAR LIFT Edition

BRIEFS

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 4A

LENGTH: 606 words

BRIEFS/NATION/WORLD COLUMN


SAN DIEGO

Sailor Guilty Of Indecent Assault

A Navy cook accused of groping and harassing an enlisted woman aboard a
commercial airline was convicted Tuesday in military court of five counts of
indecent assault.

The serviceman, Chief Petty Officer George Powell, had pleaded guilty Monday of
simple assault, but the prosecutor sought a conviction on more serious charges.

Powell had told the military judge, Cmdr. Nels Kelstrom, that he was so drunk on
the flight on Oct. 27 that he could not remember anything.

AP

JUDICIARY COMMITTEE

Immigration Proposal Draws Fire

Democrats, Republicans, business, labor and social service groups attacked on
Tuesday a bill that would cut the number of foreigners allowed to immigrate to
the United States.

Opponents led by Sen. Spencer Abraham, R-Mich., vowed to lobby the Senate
Judiciary Committee to split the bill in two, separating new restrictions on
legal immigration from popular measures that get tough with illegal aliens.

Abraham already has the support of two Democrats and two Republicans on the
18-member committee, including Sen. Paul Simon, D-Ill. The bill's author, Sen.
Alan Simpson, R-Wyo., opposed the idea. Simpson's bill would cut by at least 20
percent the number of nonrefugee immigrants allowed each year.

AP

JORDAN SLAYING

Star Witness A Liar, Defense Says

The key witness against the man accused of killing Michael Jordan's father is a
liar trying to save his own skin, a defense attorney told jurors Tuesday in
Lumberton, N.C.. And based on physical evidence, the state failed to prove its
case against Daniel Andre Green, the attorney, Woodberry Bowen, said in final
arguments.

Green, 21, is charged with first-degree murder, armed robbery and conspiracy in
the fatal shooting of James R. Jordan on July 23, 1993. Larry Demery, Green's
boyhood pal, also was charged but changed his plea to guilty last year and
testified that Green pulled the trigger.

AP

WORLD

GENOCIDE

World Failed Rwanda, Report Says

Many thousands of Rwandans died because the outside world ignored early warnings
of genocide and then botched its vast relief efforts, an international
evaluation concludes.

"Humanitarian action cannot substitute for political action," says the report,
which blamed the vacillation of world leaders for encouraging genocide and
triggering a mass exodus across Rwandan borders.

The report praises donors and aid agencies for an "impressive and, on the whole,
effective relief operation" but says poor coordination, rivalries and waste
caused many needless deaths.

AP

BALKANS

U.N. Lifts Sanctions In Bosnia

The United Nations and Serb-dominated Yugoslavia lifted sanctions against
Bosnian Serbs on Tuesday as a reward for accepting peace.

The U.N. suspension of sanctions was announced in New York by the Security
Council president, U.S. Ambassador Madeleine Albright. The council had received
a letter from NATO certifying that the Bosnian Serbs had withdrawn their forces
from buffer zones established under the Dayton peace agreement.

The Yugoslav move, announced by the state-run news agency Tanjug, was in tended
to ease tension between the Bosnian Serbs and President Slobodan Milosevic of
Serbia, Yugoslavia's most powerful politician.

AP

SUDAN

Military Plane Crashes, Killing 70

A Sudanese military plane crashed in flames Tuesday minutes before reaching
Khartoum airport, killing all 70 people aboard.

The Hercules transport plane had been cleared to land when it slammed into the
hills near the village of Jebel Aulia, 25 miles south of the capital airport, an
army statement said.

AP

LOAD-DATE: February 29, 1996

LANGUAGE: English

GRAPHIC: PHOTO; Photo From AP - Funeral Procession - A line of Amish buggies
makes its way along a country road in Lancaster County, Pa., on Monday for the
funeral of an Amish man, his mother and sister, all of whom died in a house fire
last week.

                  Copyright 1996 St. Louis Post-Dispatch, Inc.


                              208 of 308 DOCUMENTS

                       St. Louis Post-Dispatch (Missouri)

                February 28, 1996, Wednesday, THREE STAR Edition

BRIEFS

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 4A

LENGTH: 610 words

BRIEFS/NATION/WORLD COLUMN


SPY CASE

Marine Freed From Military Prison

Former Sgt. Clayton Lonetree was whisked into private life Tuesday from the
notoriety of eight years in a military prison as the only U.S. Marine ever
convicted of spying.

Lonetree, 34, was released from the U.S. Disciplinary Barracks at Fort
Leavenworth, Kan. He was serving a sentence originally set at 30 years and
reduced in stages to 15 years. With time off for good behavior, Lonetree served
less than nine years.

Lonetree, from St. Paul, Minn., was stationed as a Marine guard at the U.S.
Embassy in Moscow in the early 1980s when he fell in love with Violetta Sanni, a
Ukrainian translator in the embassy who was working for the KGB.

AP

JUDICIARY COMMITTEE

Immigration Proposal Draws Fire

Democrats, Republicans, business, labor and social service groups attacked on
Tuesday a bill that would cut the number of foreigners allowed to immigrate to
the United States.

Opponents led by Sen. Spencer Abraham, R-Mich., vowed to lobby the Senate
Judiciary Committee to split the bill in two, separating new restrictions on
legal immigration from popular measures that get tough with illegal aliens.

Abraham already has the support of two Democrats and two Republicans on the
18-member committee: Sens. Russell Feingold, D-Wis.; Paul Simon, D-Ill.; Arlen
Specter, R-Pa.; and Michael DeWine, R-Ohio. The bill's author, Sen. Alan
Simpson, R-Wyo., opposed the idea. Simpson's bill would cut by at least 20
percent the number of nonrefugee immigrants allowed e ach year.

AP

WASHINGTON

Gingrich Optimistic On Budget Pact

After months of stalemate, House Speaker Newt Gingrich expressed optimism
Tuesday that President Bill Clinton and congressional Republicans can strike a
deal balancing the budget in seven years and cutting taxes. He said the deal
could come in the next few weeks.

Gingrich, R-Ga., said the vehicle could be a free-standing bill or legislation -
needed by the middle of next month - to raise the nation's $ 4.9 trillion debt
limit.

AP

JORDAN SLAYING

Star Witness A Liar, Defense Says

The key witness against the man accused of killing Michael Jordan's father is a
liar trying to save his own skin, a defense lawyer told jurors Tuesday. And
based on physical evidence, the state failed to prove its case against Daniel
Andre Green, attorney Woodberry Bowen said.

Green, 21, is charged with first-degree murder, armed robbery and conspiracy in
the fatal shooting of James R. Jordan on July 23, 1993. Larry Demery, Green's
boyhood pal, also was charged but changed his plea to guilty last year and
testified that Green pulled the trigger.

AP

ARMED FORCES

Gay Soldiers Called Worse Off Now

The armed forces' pursuit of members thought to be homosexual is "as bad if not
worse" than before President Bill Clinton decreed a new policy, a private group
says.

There is "a continuing pattern of abuse," said a report Tuesday by the
Servicemembers Legal Defense Network. "The result, in part, is that the
Department of Defense discharged more service members under its gay policy in
fiscal year 1995 than in each of the past four years."

Defense Secretary William Perry said the evidence does not suggest any
substantial change.

AP

WORLD

KHARTOUM, SUDAN

Military Plane Crashes, Killing 70

A Sudanese military plane crashed in flames Tuesday minutes before reaching
Khartoum airport, killing all 70 people aboard.

The Hercules transport plane had been cleared to land when it slammed into the
hills near the village of Jebel Aulia, 25 miles south of the capital airport, an
army statement said.

The cause of the crash was unknown.

AP

LOAD-DATE: February 29, 1996

LANGUAGE: English

GRAPHIC: PHOTO; Photo From AP - Funeral Procession - A line of Amish buggies
makes it way along a country road in Lancaster County, Pa., on Monday for the
funeral of an Amish man, his mother and sister, all of whom died in a house fire
last week.

                  Copyright 1996 St. Louis Post-Dispatch, Inc.


                              209 of 308 DOCUMENTS

                       St. Louis Post-Dispatch (Missouri)

              February 29, 1996, Thursday, FIVE STAR LIFT Edition

BUCHANAN WOULD RUIN HIGH-TECH, FIRMS SAY

BYLINE: Evan Ramstad Associated Press

SECTION: BUSINESS; Pg. 5C

LENGTH: 338 words


High-technology companies, already trying to stop Congress from tightening
limits on legal immigration, say they would be devastated by the five-year
moratorium on immigration proposed by Republican presidential candidate Pat
Buchanan.

"Limiting immigration would be a gift to foreign industry," said Mike
Engelhardt, a vice president for software maker Sybase Corp. "It would be the
Full Employment Act for India's software industry."

Buchanan's moratorium would not prevent foreign students from attending U.S.
universities and graduate school, but it would keep U.S. companies from hiring
them.

About half the students in doctorate-level engineering programs in U.S.
universities are from other countries, amounting to about 3,000 people with
specialized skills and research background sought by many technology firms.

An additional 15,000 graduate from masters or undergraduate engineering
programs.

Losing access to that pool of talent would likely push U.S. companies to expand
their development facilities overseas, which may end up costing more U.S. jobs.

In the software industry, that's easy to do since capital costs amount to little
more than a computer and an office for a programmer.

"I can think of no other legislative change that would force so many companies
to send so many jobs overseas," said Ira Rubinstein, senior corporate attorney
for Microsoft Corp., which has about 750 foreigners working in the United
States.

Several large technology firms are led by immigrants. The chief execut ive of
Intel Corp., Andrew Grove, fled Communist Hungary in 1956. Computer Associates
International Inc.'s founder and chairman, Charles Wang, fled China in 1952; and
Eckhard Pfeiffer, chief executive of Compaq Computer Corp., escaped Nazi Germany
in 1944.

"I sympathize with all (Buchanan's) issues but this," said Benoit
Cushman-Roisin, associate dean at Dartmouth's Thayer School of Engineering, who
moved here from Belgium. "This is almost un-American. We have profited from
immigration."

LOAD-DATE: February 29, 1996

LANGUAGE: English

                  Copyright 1996 St. Louis Post-Dispatch, Inc.


                              210 of 308 DOCUMENTS

                       St. Louis Post-Dispatch (Missouri)

              February 29, 1996, Thursday, FIVE STAR LIFT Edition

FOREIGN FUROR TECH FIRMS FEAR CURBS' EFFECT ON SKILLED IMMIGRANTS

BYLINE: Evan Ramstad Associated Press Business Writer

SECTION: BUSINESS; Pg. 5C

LENGTH: 802 words

DATELINE: NEW YORK


Hostility to immigration in the Republican presidential campaign and Congress
has alarmed America's high-technology companies, which depend heavily on foreign
talent to compete and are jointly fighting proposed restrictions.

The companies include some of the most powerful and fastest-growing in the
country - International Business Machines Corp., Intel Corp., Microsoft Corp.,
Sybase Corp. and dozens of others. They've been joined by graduate schools that
fear fewer students will come from abroad.

They are especially worried by the Senate version of the immigration reform
bill, saying a provision would discourage foreign engineers who receive
doctorates at U.S. universities from working in the United States.

Sen. Alan Simpson, R-Wyo., the bill's sponsor, said the companies have gotten
worked up over a trivial issue that will be changed. "We're not going to hang up
on that," he said.

The Senate Judiciary Committee debates the issue today. While the number of
people who may be affected by the provision is just a few thousand a year, the
tone of the companies' criticism indicates how deeply they fear missing the
chance to hire someone who may provide the next breakthrough.

The issue also reflects broader debates about U.S. student interest in science
and engineering, growing technological skills of workers in other countries and,
most important, a practice by some U.S. firms of bringing a few dozen or hundred
programmers in from another country for temporary work.

The presidential campaign and invective about illegal immigration has clouded
things further.

Company representatives are quick to point out their interests are in legal
immigration, the flow of up to 140,000 people a year who can move to the United
States permanently for employment.

The companies, which coordinate their lobbying through organizations like the
Business Software Alliance and National Association of Manufacturers, are
pushing to separate the legal immigration and illegal immigration parts of the
bill.

Because members of Congress are particularly interested in telling voters
they've done something to combat illegal immigration, a bill that combines the
issues is the best chance to address legal immigration.

"Those who want to kill the bill want to separate it," Simpson said, noting the
House bill also addresses both legal and illegal immigration. "Why shouldn't you
deal with legal and illegal immigration since you're dealing with the issue of
immigration?"

Simpson has retracted many of the changes he originally proposed, including the
one that technology firms feared most. It would have forced a foreign student to
get three years' experience outside the United States after graduation before
working for a U.S. firm.

But companies now say the provision aimed at preventing so-called "job shops,"
in which a U.S. firm moves a mass of skilled immigrants in for several years'
worth of work, also could drive out foreign graduates.

It would limit the stay of skilled immigrants to three years from six. Because
permanent citizenship can take longer than three years, a highly skilled foreign
engineer who takes a job in a U.S. firm may be forced out after three years.
Many may choose not to even find work here.

"To provide them with three years of experience and have the chance of losing
them or have them graduate and decide they've got to go home, that's the No. 1
issue in this bill from my standpoint," said Kirby Dyess, vice president of
human resources at Intel, the world's largest maker of computer chips.

Ira Rubinstein, senior corporate attorney at Microsoft, said some of its foreign
workers already are anxious about the issue. About 750 of its 13, 000 workers in
the United States are from other countries. It employs 6,000 people overseas.

He said the government should combat "job shops" by more closely enforcing
current regulations that require pay at prevailing wage levels.

The bill changes that rule to prevailing compensation levels, hoping the
assurance of health and other benefits for temporary immigrants will cause "job
shop" employers to use U.S. workers instead.

"Those are the abuses," Simpson said.

The bill also cuts the number of so-called permanent "skill-based" immigrants
allowed each year from 140,000 to 90,000. Before the 1990 immigration law, the
number was 54,000. It was increased when government analyses forecast a
shortfall in skilled engineers in the United States.

But statistics now show that shortfall never happened, partly because the
post-Cold War consolidation in the defense industry created an unforeseen supply
of engineers.

Companies still oppose the decrease but less vigorously. Last year, about 93,000
people came into the country to work permanently and only 10,000 were engineers.

LOAD-DATE: February 29, 1996

LANGUAGE: English

GRAPHIC: GRAPHIC; Graphic/Chart by AP - Finding Engineers Technology companies
have taken advantage of changes to immigration law in 1990 to employ more
foreigners who have studied at U.S. schools. A look at the situation: While
enrollment has been declining in undergraduate schools of engineering, it has
been going u in graduate programs... (bar chart showing number of degrees
awareded, 1986 to 1995. Exact numbers not provided.) ...along with the number of
foreign students...(second bar chart showing percentage of foreign students in
engineering programs, 1986 and 1995) ...and the number of foreign engineers
admitted to the United States under immigration laws. (third bar chart showing
number of foreign engineers admitted to the U.S. between 1986 and 1995.) Source:
Engineering Workforce Commission

                  Copyright 1996 St. Louis Post-Dispatch, Inc.


                              211 of 308 DOCUMENTS

                       St. Louis Post-Dispatch (Missouri)

                  March 16, 1996, Saturday, THREE STAR Edition

7.5 MILLION APPLY TO U.S. FOR PERMANENT RESIDENCY

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 7A

LENGTH: 116 words

DATELINE: WASHINGTON


The State Department has received 7.5 million lottery applications from foreign
nationals interested in moving to the United States, government officials said.

The diversity lottery - the third of its kind under legislation passed by
Congress - seeks to increase immigration from underrepresented parts of the
world. Applications were accepted for one month beginning Feb. 12.

The drawing will be held sometime in June.

A computer randomly will select 55,000 winners. Winners, and members of their
immediate families, will be granted permanent resident visas.

Lottery officials are urging that winners act promptly because only those
completing their paperwork will receive visas.

LOAD-DATE: March 22, 1996

LANGUAGE: English

                  Copyright 1996 St. Louis Post-Dispatch, Inc.


                              212 of 308 DOCUMENTS

                       St. Louis Post-Dispatch (Missouri)

                  March 16, 1996, Saturday, THREE STAR Edition

7.5 MILLION APPLY TO U.S. FOR PERMANENT RESIDENCY

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 7A

LENGTH: 116 words

DATELINE: WASHINGTON


The State Department has received 7.5 million lottery applications from foreign
nationals interested in moving to the United States, government officials said.

The diversity lottery - the third of its kind under legislation passed by
Congress - seeks to increase immigration from underrepresented parts of the
world. Applications were accepted for one month beginning Feb. 12.

The drawing will be held sometime in June.

A computer randomly will select 55,000 winners. Winners, and members of their
immediate families, will be granted permanent resident visas.

Lottery officials are urging that winners act promptly because only those
completing their paperwork will receive visas.

LOAD-DATE: March 16, 1996

LANGUAGE: English

                  Copyright 1996 St. Louis Post-Dispatch, Inc.


                              213 of 308 DOCUMENTS

                       St. Louis Post-Dispatch (Missouri)

                March 21, 1996, Thursday, FIVE STAR LIFT Edition

LETTERS FROM THE PEOPLE

SECTION: EDITORIAL; Pg. 6B

LENGTH: 1274 words


Don't Blame Economy On Aliens

Fear and mistrust of newcomers frequently rise to the surface during periods of
social and economic strain. The 1840s brought riots in Catholic neighborhoods;
the 1950s, mass deportation of Latinos in "Operation Wetback."

Today, as corporations reap record profits amid large-scale layoffs and real
wages continue their 20-year decline, politicians and others are again fixing
the blame for broad economic and social ills on the newest members of our
society.

Immigrants, especially those who are undocumented, are wrongly held responsible
for job losses, crime rates, budget problems and more. But the proposed
"solutions" will bring severe suffering on immigrants and other U.S. residents
without making a dent in the problems for which they are the scapegoats.

This week, the House of Representatives will debate HR 2202, the misnamed
"Immigration in the National Interest Act." A similar bill is before the Senate
Judiciary Committee. Both bills are punitive and misguided, and will diminish
the rights and freedoms all U.S. residents enjoy.

In a misguided attempt to shut the door on illegal immigrants, the House bill
would add more agents and build bigger barriers along our southern border,
overlooking the fact that more than half of all undocumented immigration occurs
away from the border, when people who entered legally stay in the country with
expired visas. The proposed enforcement measures will only add to the existing
climate of violence and prejudice in border communities.

Immigrants come to this country in search of work to support their families and
freedom from persecution and violence. They enrich our society and anchor our
communities. Rather than singling out newcomers for irrational punishment and
building higher fences, we should address the global inequalities of wealth that
force people to enter this country illegally in search of work and search for
real economic opportunity and freedom for everyone.

Bill Ramsey

American Friends Service Committee

St. Louis

Front-Line News

I was very impressed by the March 3 letter from a St. Louisan who is serving
with the military in Bosnia. Eyewitness accounts such as his can help us
understand what the situation is like in that devastated country. I am extremely
proud of both the civilian aid and military protection we are giving to people
exhausted by war and ready for peace.

I think Americans who say we have no "national interest" in Bosnia or other
places where locals are killing each other are short-sighted because we humans
are becoming more interconnected through technology and trade.

I hope more of our local people who are serving in places like Bosnia will write
more letters to the editor. For those of us who would like to support the troops
by writing letters, the address for military persons serving in Bosnia, Slovenia
and Hungary is:

(On land) Any Service Member, Operation Joint Endeavor, APO AE 09391.

(At sea) Any Service Member, Operation Joint Endeavor, FPO AE 09392.

Susan J. Cunningham

St. Charles

Mortgage Deduction

I am writing regarding Neal Peirce's Feb. 28 column, "Mortgage Interest
Deduction Amounts To Interest Subsidy For The Affluent."

Mark Twain once said that figures don't lie, but liars figure. Peirce asks: And
if tax deduction is so great for home ownership, why does Canada have about the
same home ownership rate as we do - without the deduction?

If he really wished to know, he would have learned that Canada imposes no
capital gains tax whatsoever on the sale of any home, irrespective of whether it
sells for $ 10,000 or $ 1 million.

Laurent Jean Torno Jr.

St. Louis

Respect For Vet

I am not in agreement with most of Bob Dole's politics, but I have a newfound
respect for him personally after reading the account of his long fight for
recovery from injuries in the service of his country. (March 15 News Analysis
article).

It speaks volumes of the man's inner makeup, because rather than allowing
himself to become bitter or let his patriotism or capacity for public service
falter, he made his mark in politics and kept his sense of humor (albeit a dark
sense of humor). This stands in stark contrast to his Senate image of the "Darth
Vader" of the Republican leadership - an impression I had held of him up to this
point.

He must surely be uncomfortable with the anti-government rhetoric, isolationism
and regressive attitude toward federally funded health-care research of the
Buchanan wing of the party, not to mention similar tendencies in the Republican
freshmen in the House this year.

I missed having to register for the draft at the tail end of Vietnam by just a
few months, an accident of birthdate I have always been grateful for. Dole's war
was another place and another era, but that does not preclude me from
appreciating his sacrifice, or his courageous recovery.

It would serve many in his party well to remember that vehement patr iotism need
not include a desire to rend all institutions they find fault with, or an
overwhelming mistrust and fear of their government. Their government is made up
of people like Bob Dole.

I salute Dole's respect for our country and thank him for his dedicated service
to its preservation, both in and out of uniform.

Bob Freukes

House Springs, Mo.

Gay Doctrine

Amy Adams Squire Strongheart's poison pen has struck again. In her March 15
Commentary article about the Episcopal Church's heresy trial of a bishop who
knowingly ordained a practicing homosexual, she blatantly exposes her own
hypocrisy by denying this church its right to identify and uphold the principles
upon which the church was founded.

She correctly points out that it is an issue of control, but it is not
discriminatory control. Rather, Strongheart has placed herself as the arbiter of
what the Episcopal Church should hold as essential doctrine. I submit that it is
the task and duty of every church to uphold its central beliefs.

In the long run, churches cannot be democracies when the critical issues of
faith are at stake. It is up to the Episcopal Church, not Strongheart, to decide
whether homosexual practices are to be accepted among its membership.

Homosexual behavior is a matter of morality in most churches, as Strongheart
should have known when she joined the Episcopal Church. If she admires Henry
VIII's "chutzpah in telling the pope where to get off and starting a church that
suited his needs," perhaps she should follow the king's lead instead of
dictating the collective conscience of the Episcopal Church in this newspaper.

Jim Russell

Dellwood

Medical Advice

When a woman has a medical problem and surgery is mentioned as a solution, she
talks with her doctor about the probable consequences of surgery, and asks about
other options. She may get a second opinion. Then she makes an informed
decision.

When a woman has an untimely pregnancy, she may be aware of her options, but she
also feel pressured by her circumstances to solve this "problem" as quickly as
possible, without realizing the consequences.

A caregiver would be an advocate for the woman, providing her with information
and assisting her in getting whatever help she needs, so she can find an outcome
most beneficial to herself, her child and her family.

If the woman doesn't want the services of a caregiver, all she has to do is sign
a paper saying so.

Before surgery, or even ear-piercing, a patient signs a paper stating that she
understands the procedure and its consequences.

Isn't abortion important enough to require at least as much?

Kathy Marty

St. Louis

LOAD-DATE: March 21, 1996

LANGUAGE: English

TYPE: LETTERS

                  Copyright 1996 St. Louis Post-Dispatch, Inc.


                              214 of 308 DOCUMENTS

                       St. Louis Post-Dispatch (Missouri)

                March 28, 1996, Thursday, FIVE STAR LIFT Edition

CITIZEN TEST IS OFFERED AT UMSL

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 3B

LENGTH: 215 words


Lawful permanent residents who want to become U.S. citizens may take a new
citizenship test developed and administered by the American College Testing
Program.

Previously, the only option was to take the test in U.S. history and government
at a U.S. Immigration and Naturalization Service office. That option still is
available, but immigration officials say that testing at a neutral site may be
less stressful for applicants.

The test will be given at 7 p.m. on April 10, May 8 and June 12 in Room 100 at
Clark Hall at the University of Missouri at St. Louis. The campus is at 8001
Natural Bridge Road. Registration packets are available in advance in Room 507
of the school's Social Sciences and Business Tower.

For the test April 10, applicants may register the day of the test on a
space-available basis for $ 30. For the tests May 8 and June 12, applicants may
register by mail at least 30 days in advance for $ 25.

Applicants may take the test a second time at no cost if they do not pass. Only
passing scores are reported to the immigration agency.

Other Missouri test sites are Cape Girardeau, Kansas City and Springfield. In
Southern Illinois, tests will be given in Carbondale and Carlinville. For
information on dates, times or other sites, call (800) 498-6482.

LOAD-DATE: March 28, 1996

LANGUAGE: English

                  Copyright 1996 St. Louis Post-Dispatch, Inc.


                              215 of 308 DOCUMENTS

                       St. Louis Post-Dispatch (Missouri)

                 April 7, 1996, Sunday, FIVE STAR LIFT Edition

NEWSPAPER IMMIGRATION SERIES AVAILABLE AS 56-PAGE BOOKLET

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 6D

LENGTH: 128 words


A five-part Post-Dispatch series on the changing face of immigration in St.
Louis is now available in reprint form.

The series, written last year by Philip Dine, describes the area's growing
diversity, examines how that is altering the region and explores the human
dimension of immigration.

The 56-page booklet, titled "An Invisible Population," includes all the stories,
photos and graphics from the series.

It is available for $ 2.50 per copy, postpaid. Volume discounts are available
for quantities of 10 or more by calling Lois Kuhl at 340-8102 during regular
office hours, Monday through Friday.

Send payment, made out to the Post-Dispatch, to: Immigration Book, c/o Lois
Kuhl, St. Louis Post-Dispatch, 900 N. Tucker Blvd., St. Louis, Mo. 63101.

LOAD-DATE: April 7, 1996

LANGUAGE: English

                  Copyright 1996 St. Louis Post-Dispatch, Inc.


                              216 of 308 DOCUMENTS

                       St. Louis Post-Dispatch (Missouri)

                   April 14, 1996, Sunday, THREE STAR Edition

IMMIGRATION SERIES AVAILABLE IN BOOKLET

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 10C

LENGTH: 126 words


A five-part Post-Dispatch series on the changing face of immigration in St.
Louis is available in reprint form.

The series, written last year by Philip Dine, describes the area's growing
diversity, examines how that is altering the region and explores the human
dimension of immigration.

The 56-page booklet, titled "An Invisible Population," includes all the stories,
photos and graphics from the series. It is available for $ 2.50 per copy,
postpaid. Volume discounts are available for quantities of 10 or more by calling
Lois Kuhl at 340-8102 during regular office hours, Monday-Friday.

Send payment, made out to the Post-Dispatch, to: Immigration Book, c/o Lois
Kuhl, St. Louis Post-Dispatch, 900 N. Tucker Blvd., St. Louis, Mo. 63101.

LOAD-DATE: April 14, 1996

LANGUAGE: English

                  Copyright 1996 St. Louis Post-Dispatch, Inc.


                              217 of 308 DOCUMENTS

                       St. Louis Post-Dispatch (Missouri)

                 April 14, 1996, Sunday, FIVE STAR LIFT Edition

POST-DISPATCH IMMIGRATION SERIES AVAILABLE IN BOOKLET FORM

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 9A

LENGTH: 126 words


A five-part Post-Dispatch series on the changing face of immigration in St.
Louis is available in reprint form.

The series, written last year by Philip Dine, describes the area's growing
diversity, examines how that is altering the region and explores t he human
dimension of immigration.

The 56-page booklet, titled "An Invisible Population," includes all the stories,
photos and graphics from the series. It is available for $ 2.50 per copy,
postpaid. Volume discounts are available for quantities of 10 or more by calling
Lois Kuhl at 340-8102 during regular office hours, Monday-Friday.

Send payment, made out to the Post-Dispatch, to: Immigration Book, c/o Lois
Kuhl, St. Louis Post-Dispatch, 900 N. Tucker Blvd., St. Louis, Mo. 63101.

LOAD-DATE: April 14, 1996

LANGUAGE: English

                  Copyright 1996 St. Louis Post-Dispatch, Inc.


                              218 of 308 DOCUMENTS

                       St. Louis Post-Dispatch (Missouri)

                April 25, 1996, Thursday, FIVE STAR LIFT Edition

U.S. RELEASES WOMAN FLEEING MUTILATION RITE

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 3A

LENGTH: 461 words

DATELINE: WASHINGTON


A 19-year-old woman from Togo was released from prison Wednesday a year and a
half after she fled to this country to escape genital mutilation.

The woman, Fauziya Kasinga, said, "I'm so happy. I feel great. I love
everybody," as she emerged from the York County, Pa., prison. She was weeping
and had her hair only half-braided, because she had been given only a
half-hour's notice of her release.

Kasinga has been held behind bars as an illegal alien since her arrival at New
York's Kennedy International Airport in December 1994.

She is the focus of a test case that could open political asylum in this country
to some of the millions of young women who face genital mutilation in African
and Middle Eastern countries.

Her incarceration, first at a detention center in New Jersey and later alongside
convicted criminals in the York County prison - which has a contract with the
Immigration and Naturalization Service, spawned protests by immigration rights
advocates.

They said that when Kasinga arrived at Kennedy airport, she said she had a false
passport and requested asylum and thus never intended to gain entry by fraud.

Kasinga told immigration authorities that she had left Togo, in west Africa next
to Ghana, because an aunt who had custody of her was insisting that she undergo
the procedure as part of an arranged marriage to an older man.

Like Kasinga, the man belonged to the Tchamba Kunsuntu tribe, which practices
female genital mutilation.

The immigration agency said Wednesday that Kasinga's release was appropriate now
because of "new and reliable arrangements Ms. Kasinga has proposed to ensure
that she will remain available for all future immigration proceedings."

Carole Florman, a Justice Department spokeswoman, said these arrangements
included her staying with a Baha'i family in Washington's Virginia suburbs and
agreeing to check in with immigration officers once a month and respond to all
hearing notices.

Her attorney, Richard Boswell, of the American University law school, said the
immigration agency knew she was willing to agree to all those conditions all
along. "This has been a miscarriage of justice," he said.

Kasinga was denied asylum by an immigration judge last August, but her case has
been appealed to the Board of Immigration Appeals. The 12-member board has set a
May 2 hearing in Falls Church, Va., on the appeal.

In a brief, the Justice Department has asked the board to rule that fear of
genital mutilation can justify asylum - but only for those women who would be
forced into the most extreme forms of it if sent home.

The brief asks that the board adopt that framework and send Kasinga's case back
to an immigration judge for further hearings on whether it fits such guidelines.

LOAD-DATE: April 25, 1996

LANGUAGE: English

GRAPHIC: PHOTO; Photo by AP - Fauziya Kasinga (left) walks out of the York
County Prison in York, Pa., into the arms of supporters Wednesday. She fled her
homeland to escape genital mutilation.

                  Copyright 1996 St. Louis Post-Dispatch, Inc.


                              219 of 308 DOCUMENTS

                       St. Louis Post-Dispatch (Missouri)

                 April 26, 1996, Friday, FIVE STAR LIFT Edition

IMMIGRATION CURB FAILS IN SENATE; AMENDMENT TO MEASURE ON ALIENS DEFEATED 80-20

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 3A

LENGTH: 388 words

DATELINE: WASHINGTON


The Senate on Thursday rejected a measure to reduce legal immigration.

The 80-20 bipartisan vote killed a proposal by Sen. Alan Simpson, R-Wyo., to
reduce family sponsored immigration. He is seeking to cut legal immigration for
five years by about 10 percent below current levels.

Simpson claimed that polls show up to three-fourths of the Americans support
cuts in both legal and illegal immigration.

Many senators who opposed the amendment said limits on legal immigration should
not be included in the pending immigration bill designed to get tough on illegal
aliens.

Because of a dispute over a vote sought by Democrats on increasing the minimum
wage, Senate Majority Leader Bob Dole scheduled a vote late Monday on cutting
off debate on the immigration bill. The Democrats are trying to attach a minimum
wage amendment to the immigration bill unless the Republican leadership agrees
to hold a separate vote on that issue alone.

Sen. Spencer Abraham, R-Mich., said legal immigrants "want to come to this
country in a positive and constructive way to make a contribution, to play by
the rules and . . . to make a great, great addition to our American family."

Rules dealing with such immigration should be given full attention in a separate
bill, which is pending, he said.

Other senators complained that Simpson's amendment would favor the immigration
of spouses and minor children of permanent resident aliens over adult children
and siblings of U.S. citizens.

Simpson, chief author of the Senate's immigration legislation, contended the
opponents' real aim was to kill any new limits on legal immigration.

The House passed its own immigration bill last month only after lawmakers
stripped it of limits on legal immigration. Like the pending Senate bill, the
House-passed version focuses on illegal aliens and would restrict their access
to public benefits while doubling the number of U.S. border guards.

(* The following text appeared only in the THREE STAR edition *)

In other action, the Senate:

* Rejected by 74-26 a measure to reduce legal immigration while guaranteeing
that parents and adult children of citizens would get some visas each year.

* Passed by voice vote an amendment that would add domestic violence and
stalking as grounds for deporting aliens.

(* End of text *)

LOAD-DATE: April 26, 1996

LANGUAGE: English

                  Copyright 1996 St. Louis Post-Dispatch, Inc.


                              220 of 308 DOCUMENTS

                       St. Louis Post-Dispatch (Missouri)

                April 27, 1996, Saturday, FIVE STAR LIFT Edition

2 KILLED IN VAN WRECK NEAR IMMIGRATION CHECKPOINT

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 6A

LENGTH: 137 words

DATELINE: ALPINE, CALIF.


A van packed with nearly two dozen people crashed near an immigration checkpoint
Friday, killing two passengers and injuring 19 others, one critically,
authorities said.

Officials said the van went out of control and flipped several times when the
driver rammed it into a Border Patrol vehicle. One of the injured was reported
in critical condition.

The Border Patrol van was rammed after it pulled alongside the other vehicle and
an agent motioned for the driver to stop. As the van plunged off the highway and
overturned, people went flying out. The two vehicles were traveling about 70
miles an hour when they struck, officials said.

No one in the Border Patrol vehicle was hurt, said agency spokesman Ron Henley.

The California Highway Patrol said the van's passengers appeared to be illegal
immigrants.

LOAD-DATE: April 27, 1996

LANGUAGE: English

                  Copyright 1996 St. Louis Post-Dispatch, Inc.


                              221 of 308 DOCUMENTS

                       St. Louis Post-Dispatch (Missouri)

                 May 1, 1996, Wednesday, FIVE STAR LIFT Edition

BRIEFS

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 5A

LENGTH: 661 words

BRIEFS/NATION/WORLD COLUMN


BEEF INDUSTRY

U.S. Plans Buy To Give Ranchers A Boost

The government will buy up to $ 50 million in beef for its school lunch program
to help ease the pinch on farmers, ranchers and feedlot operators who are
getting shrinking prices for cattle while feed costs rise and a drought out West
shrivels grazing land.

The beef purchase is one of a number of steps announced by the White House after
President Bill Clinton met with Republican and Democratic senators to promise
his support for the industry.

The Agriculture Department will begin to buy beef for the 1996-1997 school year
at once rather than waiting until later in the year. And the White House said
the department will consider additional purchases if warranted by market
conditions. Cattle and calf sales are the largest single-commodity source of
farm income, with sales of $ 35 billion to $ 40 billion a year.

AP

IMMIGRANTS

Senate Votes To Bar Some From Welfare

The Senate voted Tuesday to bar immigrants from public assistance programs if
the person sponsoring their move to the United States can support them.

"There are two choices," said Sen. Alan Simpson, R-Wyo., the bill's chief
author. "Either a sponsor pays for a legal immigrant, or the taxpayers do."

The Senate bill says a sponsor's income would be deemed to be part of the
immigrant's income if that immigrant seeks public assistance.

AP

WISCONSIN

Gov. Thompson Signs New Abortion Law

Gov. Tommy Thompson signed an abortion law Tuesday that requires women to
consult with a doctor in person at least 24 hours before getting an abortion,
except in certain cases of rape and incest.

Planned Parenthood of Wisconsin said it would seek an injunction today to keep
the law from taking effect.

"It does not meet constitutional standards in right to privacy, right to be free
of unwarranted government intrusion and right of bodily integrity," said Severa
Austin, the group's president. "We think the bill essentially says women are too
stupid to make a decision that's responsible."

Thompson said the state law was based on similar laws in other states that have
been upheld in court.

AP

AIDS

Bill Would Require Testing Of Newborns

House and Senate negotiators tentatively agreed Tuesday on a measure that would
eventually require states to begin mandatory testing of newborns for HIV, if
health officials cannot reduce the number of infected infants by other means,
sources said Tuesday.

States that did not comply would risk losing federal money provided under the
Ryan White act, which provides hundreds of millions of dollars each year for
treatment of people with AIDS.

NY Times

UNABOMBER CASE

Kaczynski Seeks Court Hearing On Leaks

Unabomber suspect Theodore Kaczynski asked the Supreme Court on Tuesday to order
a lower court hearing on his argument that he should be freed from prosecution
because of government leaks.

"The government's decision to vilify him in the national media with
incriminating evidence, before charging him with any 'Unabomber' crime, worked
to forfeit the government's right to prosecute (Kaczynski) for such crimes," his
appeal said.

"The government's conduct has made the word 'Unabomber' and the name Theodore
Kaczynski interchangeable," the appeal said. Kaczynski's court-appointed lawyer,
Michael Donahoe, asked the justices to reverse lower court rulings that denied
him a hearing.

AP

WORLD

TERRORISM

Iran 'Premier' Sponsor, Department Says

Iran is the "premier state sponsor of international terrorism," the State
Department said Tuesday, citing as proof Iran's alleged support for radical
groups from North Africa to Central Asia.

The department said in its annual report on international terrorism that seven
Iranian murders of dissidents were confirmed last year, up from four in 1994.
The study lists Iran, Syria and five other countries - Cuba, Iraq, Libya, North
Korea and Sudan - as sponsors of international terrorism.

AP

LOAD-DATE: May 1, 1996

LANGUAGE: English

GRAPHIC: PHOTO; Photo From AP - New Mexico Fire Firefighters work to put out hot
spots Tuesday in New Mexico's Jemez mountains. The fire has consumed more than
14,700 acres of the Santa Fe National Forest and the Bandelier National
Monument.

                  Copyright 1996 St. Louis Post-Dispatch, Inc.


                              222 of 308 DOCUMENTS

                       St. Louis Post-Dispatch (Missouri)

                 May 11, 1996, Saturday, FIVE STAR LIFT Edition

LETTERS FROM THE PEOPLE

SECTION: EDITORIAL; Pg. 13B

LENGTH: 632 words


Make English Official Language

I want to reply to the May 1 Commentary article, "English-Only Bills Would Keep
Immigrants Outsiders."

While the authors' good intentions are not in question, I believe they are
laboring under a mistaken notion of what is good for an immigrant.

Most immigrants and Americans believe that English is the official language of
the United States. But the fact is that the United States has no official
language. That is precisely what we should rectify before someone decides that
official business must be conducted in any number of languages to accommodate
those of diverse origins.

The expense of schooling, voting, professional examinations, court proceedings,
tax collection and all the functions of government conducted in a multitude of
languages would be staggering.

Many Missourians may understandably think this question is nothing more than a
tempest in a teapot, and that our state experiences no such problem. It is true
that multilingualism is not endemic here, but it is prevalent in many other
places in the United States and growing stronger. Florida, Colorado, New Mexico,
Arizona, Texas and California now have large populations that speak little or no
English, and there are growing pockets of foreign language communities in nearly
every state.

Apart from the added cost of governing in various languages, there is the matter
of the inevitable divisiveness caused by people not understanding one another.
For example, the calamitous rift in Canada between the Francophones of Quebec
and the Anglophones is due to a lack of assimilation of the two regions caused
by differences of language.

Immigrants must learn English quickly, not only to conduct business with the
government, but to enter into the mainstream of American life. It is the
greatest disservice imaginable to retard their learning of English by catering
to them in their native language.

If they are plunged headlong and immersed in English from the first day, in a
matter of a few months, they will be speaking English well enough to start
conducting a rewarding life in their adopted country. Our present misguided
school programs, which teach immigrant children in their own language "until
they are proficient in English," are the worst possible course to rapid
integration. Believe me, I have lived it over and over again, and as a result,
all of our children are trilingual.

The greatest service we can perform for immigrants, for the state of Missouri,
and the unity of the nation is to make English the official language of the
state, and eventually of the United States of America.

John J. Wolfe

Ladue

A May 1 Commentary article talked of English-only bills, but the bills pending
in the Missouri General Assembly are not English-only. They are English as the
official common language for the state.

By declaring English to be the official language of Missouri, the Legislature
promotes inclusion and unity for all of our citizens. The English language is
the key to success for citizens and newcomers alike and will help all new
Missourians share in all of the opportunities that this state and this nation
have to offer.

Passage of common language legislation will end the needless duplication of
government services and will save money. This will enable the state to use its
resources more effectively, specifically to promote and provide opportunities
for immigrants to learn English.

Missourians speak dozens of languages. Selecting one or several of these
languages is a difficult and potentially discriminatory practice. Declaring
English as the official common language guarantees that all people are treated
equally and fairly.

A vote yes would help all citizens and citizens-to-be.

James S. Whitfield

Chesterfield

LOAD-DATE: May 12, 1996

LANGUAGE: English

TYPE: LETTERS

                  Copyright 1996 St. Louis Post-Dispatch, Inc.


                              223 of 308 DOCUMENTS

                       St. Louis Post-Dispatch (Missouri)

                  May 17, 1996, Friday, FIVE STAR LIFT Edition

U.S. IMMIGRATION STANCE WORRIES CATHOLIC GROUP

BYLINE: Patricia Rice Post-Dispatch Religion Writer

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 4A

LENGTH: 285 words


The country's largest sponsor of immigrants said at a national meeting here
Thursday that the welcome mat is being pulled out.

The Senate passed an immigration bill two weeks ago that has the most
restrictive regulations on immigration and refugees in more than 70 years, said
John Swenson, director of the Migration and Refugee Service of the U.S. Catholic
Conference.

The service, backed by Catholic dioceses, is the largest sponsor of immigrants -
even though most of those immigrants are not Catholic. Representatives of the
nation's 42 largest dioceses are meeting at the Holiday Inn Riverfront through
Saturday.

"Welcoming the stranger is part of the Catholic, Christian social teaching; it's
mentioned 36 times just in the Old Testament," Swenson sa id. "Most Americans
share a common heritage as sojourners. We are especially concerned about those
who are forced out of their countries because of persecution."

Since the fall of Saigon in 1975, the service sponsored 80 percent - more than
700,000 - of the nearly 1 million Southeast Asian immigrants. The service
sponsored another 100,000 immigrants from Eastern Europe and other countries. In
California dioceses, nearly all immigrants have been Vietnamese. The 4, 000
immigrants sponsored by the St. Louis Archdiocese since 1981 hail from 26
nations.

This year, the United States will accept 90,000 immigrants. Next year, the
number will be tightened to 75,000. By 1999, it will probably be 50,000.

And within a year, the federal program to bring Vietnamese to the United States
will end. Some camp residents may be returned to Vietnam, said Shep Lowman, a
refugee analyst who addressed the meeting's opening session Thursday.

LOAD-DATE: May 17, 1996

LANGUAGE: English

                  Copyright 1996 St. Louis Post-Dispatch, Inc.


                              224 of 308 DOCUMENTS

                       St. Louis Post-Dispatch (Missouri)

                   June 6, 1996, Thursday, THREE STAR Edition

BRIEFS

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 12A

LENGTH: 471 words

BRIEFS/NATION/WORLD COLUMN


NATION

FLORIDA

Haitians Brought Ashore After Wreck

Dozens of Haitian refugees were brought ashore in Florida Wednesday, a day after
a rickety wooden freighter ran aground off the Port of Miami, U.S. Coast Guard
officials said.

Sixty-six refugees and six crew members were taken to a federal detention center
for processing by the Immigration and Naturalization Service.

INS officials decided to take the refugees to the Krome Detention Center west of
Miami for processing to determine if any has a legitimate claim to asylum.

Reuters

NAACP TRIAL

Jury Deciding Fate Of Chavis Agreement

Benjamin Chavis' attorney asserted Wednesday that the civil rights leader had
the right to settle a sexual harassment case against the NAACP and accused the
group of using the matter to get rid of him.

But the lawyer for the NAACP countered that the organization was an "innocent
victim caught in the cross-fire" between Chavis, its former executive director,
and Mary Stansel, who had charged sexual harassment, and shouldn't be liable for
any part of the agreement because it violated organization policy.

"The wisdom of the decision is not the issue," Chavis' attorney, Abbey Hairston,
told the nine-member Superior Court jury. "The issue is: Did he have the
authority to do what he did?"

Jurors began deliberating the case Wednesday afternoon and will decide whether
the National Association for the Advancement of Colored People must honor the
November 1993 agreement with Stansel and pay up.

AP

WORLD

PANAMA CANAL

Military Expected To Stay After Treaty Ends

Gen. John Sheehan, chief of the U.S. Atlantic Command, said Wednesday that he
expects about 4,000 U.S. military personnel to remain in Panama after 1999, when
under the Panama Canal treaties all U.S. forces are to leave.

Despite the treaty provision, both countries have expressed interest in
prolonging the military presence beyond Dec. 31, 1999, when Panama takes over
administration of the waterway.

Sheehan used the 4,000 figure at a news conference on narcotic trafficking in
the Caribbean. Interviewed later, Sheehan said he did not know whether 4,000
would be the final figure. "But that's the number that most people are coming to
a consensus on."

AP

CHECHNYA

Progress Reported In Talks On Peace

Chechen rebel leaders and Russian representatives said they had made progress in
talks on ending the fighting in Chechnya and that a deal could be signed today.

The talks were called to work out details of an agreement struck by President
Boris Yeltsin and rebel chief Zelimkhan Yandarbiyev in Moscow on May 27. That
deal included a cease-fire beginning June 1 and an exchange of prisoners within
two weeks.

The talks in Nazran, the capital of Russia's ethnic republic of Ingushetia will
continue today.

Reuters

LOAD-DATE: June 6, 1996

LANGUAGE: English

GRAPHIC: PHOTO; Photo from AP - Visit To Grandma Cazim Dzerahovic waves to his
wife and small son as they leave from Zenica in the Muslim sector of
Bosnia-Herzegovina to visit her mother in the Serbian zone. The bus was provided
by the U.N. refugee agency to enable displaced Bosnians to visit their former
homes.

                  Copyright 1996 St. Louis Post-Dispatch, Inc.


                              225 of 308 DOCUMENTS

                       St. Louis Post-Dispatch (Missouri)

                   June 3, 1992, WEDNESDAY, FIVE STAR Edition

PRESIDENT IS RIGHT TO LIMIT IMMIGRATION

BYLINE: Cal Thomas

SECTION: EDITORIAL; Pg. 3C

LENGTH: 541 words


WASHINGTON (REST) The decision by the Bush administration not to accept any more
Haitian immigrants at the U.S. naval base in Guantanamo, Cuba, is in the best
interest of the United States - and in the long-term interest of the Haitians.
Critics of the policy are some of the same people who two decades ago argued
against U.S. involvement in foreign ''adventures,'' saying we could not be the
world's policeman. Neither can we be the world's Motel 6, leaving the light on
for all who can make it here, regardless of how they come and which immigration
laws they break.  America's generosity in welcoming Haitians is unsurpassed by
any other nation. The Census Bureau reports that 1 million Haitian immigrants
now live in the United States, one-sixth of that country's population. While the
population of Port-au-Prince is 472,000, the Haitian population of New York City
is estimated at 400,000. Like many other immigrants, those Haitians who are
uneducated and unskilled quickly become attached to our overburdened welfare
system.  We cannot afford another Mariel boat-lift fiasco, which brought 125,000
Cubans to this country in 1980 and created a fiscal and political crisis in
Florida. Once these so-called refugees arrive, it is nearly impossible to deport
them. Lawyers for various advocacy groups tie up the court system with their
pleas while the American taxpayer subsidizes their care and feeding.  Some of
the most hardened criminals from the Mariel boat lift are still here as their
cases languish in court. The cost to the federal government to subsidize
undocumented aliens has grown enormously. This includes Medicaid and Aid to
Families With Dependent Children. According to federal statistics quoted by
Richard Dixon, chief administrative officer of Los Angeles County, illegal
immigrants cost us $57.7 million in 1988-89. But in 1990-91 the cost had nearly
tripled to $140.5 million, and it is estimated it could reach $533 million by
the year 2000 unless more is done to stem the tide.  Significant percentages of
the illegals end up in the criminal justice system. Many form street gangs or
engage in other forms of destructive behavior. Attorney General William Barr
noted that more than 30 percent of those arrested in the Los Angeles riots were
illegal aliens.  In deciding to crack down on the Haitian immigrants, President
Bush has taken a needed first step toward protecting our borders and our people
from further economic and social erosion. California Gov. Pete Wilson recently
complained that failure by Washington to enforce immigration laws has
contributed to the state's budget problems.  Opinion polls indicate a majority
of Americans are concerned there are too many immigrants coming to America. A
Roper Poll found 69 percent believe Congress should act to reduce immigration by
reversing a 1990 law that allowed a 40 percent increase in immigrants out of
concern for a labor shortage.  Eighty percent in the same poll favored a
revision of U.S. immigration policies.  Better for Cubans (and Haitians) who
cannot emigrate legally to America to remain in their countries and reform their
political and economic systems than to come here and cripple ours.  Copyright
1992 Los Angeles Times Syndicate

LOAD-DATE: October 11, 1993

LANGUAGE: English

                  Copyright 1992 St. Louis Post-Dispatch, Inc.


                              226 of 308 DOCUMENTS

                       St. Louis Post-Dispatch (Missouri)

                   June 11, 1992, THURSDAY, FIVE STAR Edition

ALIENS TO BE ADVISED OF RIGHTS

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 5C

LENGTH: 412 words


LOS ANGELES - The Immigration and Naturalization Service has agreed to advise
suspected illegal aliens of their legal rights - including the right to an
attorney - in a preliminary settlement of a 14-year-old civil suit.  Under terms
of the settlement, agents must provide written notice of the arrested person's
rights in his or her native language and cannot ask routine booking questions
once he or she asks to speak to an attorney.  The notice also will advise
arrested persons that they may have a legal right not to be deported and will
urge them not to sign anything until they have read the entire notice.  The
agreement would end a federal suit filed in 1978 on behalf of 66 immigrants
arrested during an Immigration Service raid on a shoe factory in Los Angeles.
The suit contends that the plaintiffs were denied the right to meet with an
attorney and were coerced into accepting deportation. The suit was filed by the
Center for Human Rights and Constitutional Law.  Terms of the settlement,
outlined in a 15-page document, were made public Tuesday.  As part of the
settlement, the Immigration Service also agreed to include on one of its forms a
question asking whether people who have been arrested believe they face harm if
returned to their native countries. If the answer is yes, they will be allowed
to pursue claims for political asylum.  Bracing for the settlement's final
approval, the Immigration Service has prepared a memorandum instructing field
officers about their new obligations. That memorandum, signed by Immigration
Service Commissioner Gene McNary, has been accepted by the plaintiffs' lawyers.
McNary formerly was the St. Louis County executive.  In reaction: Warren Leiden,
executive director of the American Immigration Lawyers Association, said,
''Finally, about 1.5 million people arrested by the INS each year will be able
to consult legal counsel at a meaningful time and in a meaningful manner.''
Valerie Small Navarro, immigration rights director for the Mexican-American
Legal Defense Fund, said the settlement would help end purported coercion by INS
agents. ''We see a lot of people who are coerced in this process. This will
allow them to exercise their rights.'' Although the changes spelled out in the
settlement are procedural, immigration reform advocates say they are
far-reaching and will help safeguard the constitutional rights of immigrants,
who often are confused and frightened when they are arrested.

LOAD-DATE: October 11, 1993

LANGUAGE: English

                  Copyright 1992 St. Louis Post-Dispatch, Inc.


                              227 of 308 DOCUMENTS

                       St. Louis Post-Dispatch (Missouri)

                  July 5, 1992, SUNDAY, LATE FIVE STAR Edition

COLD WELCOME FOR ALIENS

SECTION: EDITORIAL; Pg. 2B

LENGTH: 1494 words


As you leave Lambert Field on Interstate 70, there is a sign in a variety of
languages to greet the foreign tourist ''Welcome to Missouri.'' If only it were
so!  The U.S. Immigration Service in St. Louis is a singularly unwelcoming
experience for all travelers, but especially the foreign visitor. Recently, when
I returned to the states with a 15-year-old French-speaking Cambodian summer
guest, the flight attendants warned travelers that the St. Louis immigration
procedure was particularly harsh; forms must be filled out perfectly. Any
deviation, however inadvertent, will result in the offender being sent back to
the end of the line.  The hapless foreigners on the plane were already anxious.
Upon arrival, travelers were separated into two lines, returning Americans and
aliens.  We Americans move forward at a reasonable speed, but the alien line
clumped in their huddled mass and was reprimanded each time one of them did not
understand about standing behind the white line. Each alien was interrogated in
English, asked how much money they had with them and whether they intend to
work. They stammered their answers, clearly intimidated.  The inspectors
leisurely pursued their interrogation, knowing there was no need to hurry, as
the next plane from abroad wasn't due for three hours.  This isn't New York,
after all. I watched our summer guest step forward for her oral test. Oh, no!
She had been given the wrong form on the plane and needed to step back and fill
in - in block letters - a whole new form in English! She called out to me
because she didn't know the meaning of terms such as ''detained on foreign
soil'' or '' incarcerated'' or ''unauthorized employment.'' I stepped forward to
translate these phrases into French, but I was rudely sent back behind my white
line on the American side. Each alien must pass this test alone. But, finally,
we were free to leave and receive our official Missouri welcome on the highway.
I suppose we should consider it progress that the flight attendants have stopped
fumigating the cabin on all foreign flights.  Barbara Kelley Kirkwood Prayer
Protection I sometimes wonder if the people of the United States realize how
fortunate they are to have the protection of our legal system. Even though the
system may be unable to deal effectively with murder, rape, robbery, narcotics
being sold openly on the street or gangs that terrorize neighborhoods, the
system proved its worth when the U.S. Supreme Court handed down a momentous
decision.  In the future, the system will protect us from a prayer at high
school graduation.  William Abram Overland River Memories Having just returned
from a trip to the St. Louis riverfront, I wanted to pass along how delighted I
was to see the newest addition to the scene, the sailing ship Eagle.  As I stood
on the cobblestones, I closed my eyes and imagined how the riverfront must have
looked 100 or 150 years ago. Hundreds and hundreds of these magnificent tall
sailing ships must have covered the river. When I opened my eyes and looked
around, I spied the minesweeper and thought how appropriate that ship was to our
riverfront. Again I closed my eyes and imagined how the riverfront used to look
with perhaps the Seventh Fleet practicing maneuvers up and down the river.  All
of a sudden it occurred to me. Why not have the Eagle and the minesweeper engage
in mock battles several times a day? Imagine what a tourist attraction such a
spectacle would be. Talk about giving people a sense of what life on the
Mississippi was really like.  Anyway, I just wanted to thank the city of St.
Louis and all the others involved in making the riverfront such an historic
experience.  Jerry Wilson Granite City Beautiful Tribute I always enjoy reading
Judith Newmark's columns, but I've never been so deeply touched by one until her
June 29 column, ''A Mother Leaves Behind A Precious Legacy.'' I did not know
Susan Bard, but her untimely death certainly caused me to stop my hurried life
for a moment and appreciate more fully my job as a mother.  This column was a
beautiful tribute not only to Bard, but to all mothers everywhere. Thank you,
Judith Newmark.  Pam Dyson Manchester If I were in charge of handing out
Pulitzer Prizes, Judy Newmark would receive one for her beautiful column on
Susan Bard.  James L. Lord Sr.  Normandy Music Reunites I had the pleasure of
attending the Oliver Sain ''Soul Reunion '92'' recently at Mississippi Nights. I
totally agree with your review; the music and the musicians could hardly have
been better.  From my perspective, though, it was a relief. At 43 you could say
that I grew up with ''soul music'' while growing up in Normandy. For the past
eight years, I have lived in Jefferson City, away from the killings I read about
every day in the Post-Dispatch. To be honest, I wasn't sure I wanted to venture
into a racially mixed crowd after what I have seen in Los Angeles and what I
have heard from Sister Souljah and Ice-T, but I went anyway because I wanted to
hear good music.  The musicians were better (and older) than I had expected, and
the crowd was a wonderful racial mix, enjoying sounds that make you want to sway
and clap, to snap your fingers and embrace your partner. This is peaceful music,
meant for enjoyment, sung, not spoken, and primarily black.  I want to thank all
involved with putting the reunion together.  Mike Delaney Jefferson City Golden
Investment The U.S. Postal Service's Olympic sponsorship, contrary to the June
25 editorial, ''Postal Service's Money Games,'' is not a matter of squandering
money. It will actually result in a multimillion-dollar gain for the postal
service and its ratepayers. In short, it's fiscally responsible.  Certainly,
knowing what we know now, we would not have reserved as many hotel rooms as we
did when we began planning our Olympic sponsorship in 1990.  We purchased these
rooms at a time when the world economy was stronger, based on the assumption
that each of our 31 foreign partner postal administrations would take 10 rooms.
Our decision to invite to Barcelona representatives of the 57 largest mail
industry organizations is an opportunity to recover value on an investment
already made. The members of these organizations account for approximately 85
percent of this nation's mail volume in every class of mail.  From the
beginning, critics have questioned our Olympic sponsorship, perhaps reflecting
the ambiguity in our mandate to be a businesslike public service in what has
become a very competitive environment. But it is the bottom line that should
count. And in the case of our Olympic sponsorship, we will make at least $50
million in net profit to the postal service treasury.  In an era when postal
finances are based simply on the revenue we raise - since we haven't taken a tax
dollar from the U.S. Treasury for more than 10 years - our Olympic sponsorship
is a sound investment in the future of America's postal system for all mailers.
As for the Waltham (not Lexington), Mass., Mail Processing Center and the 555
Washington building in St. Louis, they are in no way similar situations.  There
is a court decision in favor of the postal service in Waltham - a fact I believe
the Post-Dispatch is unaware of. Any further comment about the St.  Louis
building purchase will have to wait until the investigations are complete and
all the facts are available.  Deborah K. Bowker Assistant Postmaster General
Communications Department Washington, D.C.  Rehabilitative Care Ronald Long, a
resident of Bellefontaine Habilitation Center who recently ran away from the
center, was mildly mentally retarded with behavior problems.  All of the
residents at Bellefontaine Habilitation Center are mentally retarded and many
also suffer from a variety of physical handicaps. Many of them have behavior
that is considered unpredictable and at times severe.  During Gov. John
Ashcroft's two terms in office, he has slashed the budgets of all the state's
habilitation centers for the mentally retarded and shifted more funds to promote
the movement of the mentally retarded to scattered homes in the community.  The
well-being of the mentally retarded in state habilitation centers is suffering
because of staff shortages and inadequate wages for direct care employees.  Now,
tragically, there is a mentally retarded individual with behavioral problems who
is in deep trouble and wanted by the police. But who is really to blame?
Bellefontaine Habilitation Center provides excellent services to the severely
mentally retarded even though the governor's actions has made it much more
difficult.  We should all support the efforts being made at Bellefontaine
Habilitation Center and thank God that there is a place that provides treatment
and services in a protective environment for those who are afflicted with severe
mental retardation and severe behavioral problems.  Betty Coll President Mental
Retardation Association of Missouri Inc.  St. Louis

LOAD-DATE: October 12, 1993

LANGUAGE: English

                  Copyright 1992 St. Louis Post-Dispatch, Inc.


                              228 of 308 DOCUMENTS

                       St. Louis Post-Dispatch (Missouri)

                    July 13, 1992, MONDAY, FIVE STAR Edition

LUTHERANS SEEKING RENEWED EVANGELISM SYNOD SAYS SPREAD GOSPEL TO; NON-CHRISTIANS

BYLINE: Kathryn Rogers Post-Dispatch Religion Writer

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 3A

LENGTH: 415 words


PITTSBURGH - With testimony from a Jewish convert, a Korean-American and a
member of a Mohican congregation, the Lutheran Church-Missouri Synod called
Sunday for a renewed effort to spread the gospel to non-Christian immigrants and
ethnic groups in the United States.  ''There are a lot of Indian people who need
the Lord,'' said Marcelene Sparks, a member of Immanuel Mohican Lutheran Church
in Gresham, Wis.  Sparks was one of several people who spoke about the
importance of their Christian faith at a service at the synod's international
convention in the David L.  Lawrence Convention Hall here.  A few hours later,
the synod's 1,100 delegates adopted with little debate mission guidelines for
the 1990s that include the United States in the synod's ''world mission field,''
in recognition of the diversity of religious traditions among U.S. citizens.
The guidelines call for ''culture-specific ministry,'' whereby missionaries are
trained in the language, culture and religious heritage of ethnic and immigrant
non-Christian communities targeted for conversion and outreach.  ''It's no
longer a European world,'' said Glenn R. O'Shoney, executive director of the
board for mission services, in an interview before the vote on the guidelines.
''Our church came into being when we were German immigrants,'' he said.  ''Now,
most of those coming in are from different cultures, different religions. The
U.S. is now just as valid a world mission field as any other country.''
Lutherans contend that individuals must believe in their own salvation through
Christ in order to enjoy eternal life. The synod holds that the New Testament
requires Christians to spread the gospel.  One resolution to be presented to the
synod's eight-day convention calls for a special mission to Muslims. O'Shoney
said Muslims were the fastest growing religious group in the country and were
especially strong in the inner cities.  At the Sunday service, Jotham Johann, a
Korean-American whose father is a Lutheran pastor in Queens, N.Y., said that the
synod's destiny was to tell everyone about Christ. ''It's a crucial time to
reach out'' to Korean and other Asian immigrants, he said.  Steve Cohen, a Jew
who converted to Christianity, said he ''came to faith'' after a Lutheran
''spoke to me personally and prayed for me for two years.'' Cohen, of Fort
Lauderdale, Fla., is a field counselor for Lutheran outreach.  ''Let's not be
ashamed of his gospel and go with great boldness,'' he said.

LOAD-DATE: October 12, 1993

LANGUAGE: English

                  Copyright 1992 St. Louis Post-Dispatch, Inc.


                              229 of 308 DOCUMENTS

                       St. Louis Post-Dispatch (Missouri)

                    July 20, 1992, MONDAY, FIVE STAR Edition

SAFE AT HOME IMMIGRANT FAMILY ENJOYING COUNTRY LIVING

BYLINE: Robert Kelly Of the Post-Dispatch Staff

SECTION: ILLINOIS; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 849 words


AKIN, Ill. - Out among the cornfields of rural Southern Illinois, people
sometimes are surprised to find three recent Vietnamese immigrants living among
families who have lived here for generations.  The three immigrants - a woman
and her son and daughter - have provided an instant family for Donald Darnell, a
retired education professor from Southern Illinois University who had been a
life-long bachelor.  Darnell, 62, has married the woman, a widow named Nguyen
Phong Thi, who just turned 50.  He said their marriage was arranged, in part,
out of a strong mutual friendship and affection, but also to help expedite her
emigration from what her family viewed as an oppressive situation in Vietnam.
Darnell first met Thi after he had gone in the mid-1960s to what was then South
Vietnam. He went as a representative from SIU at Edwardsville in a
teacher-education program sponsored by an agency called the Aid to International
Development.  He worked for a time with Thi's husband, who later died in a
Vietnamese concentration camp. Thi's husband had been sent to the camp after the
Communist takeover of South Vietnam because he was suspected of being a traitor
for having worked with Americans, Darnell said.  Darnell left the war-torn
nation in 1967 but continued to correspond with Thi and other Vietnamese
friends.  As a result of his correspondence, he learned that some of his friends
- including Thi and her children - were suffering under Communist rule, and he
helped a few of them to come to the United States. Darnell returned late in 1989
to visit Vietnam. Htayed in Ho Chi Minh City (formerly Saigon) with Thi and her
family, and they began making big plans.  Darnell and Thi agreed to marry and
began the legal preparations to do so.  They believed that was her best chance
to be able to leave Vietnam.  Thi and her son, Tri, now 18, and daughter, Nhu,
20, then ran into a wall of bureaucracy that kept them in Vietnam until this
summer.  On June 12, they finally arrived at Lambert Field to start their new
lives in the U.S.  ''We were very happy to see him,'' Thi said of their meeting
with Darnell at the airport.  She and her children spoke in an interview last
week at Darnell's home in the small town of Akin, which is near Benton and about
100 miles southeast of St. Louis.  Thi said with an apologetic smile, ''My
English is very poor.'' Darnell, however, said she was selling herself and her
children short. He said that they were fast learners and that Thi had spoken
some English in Vietnam when she worked as an office personnel supervisor.
''Both Nhu and Tri learn very quickly, and I'm sure they will do very well,''
Darnell added. ''Kids change fast and are flexible.'' For now, Thi's children
communicate with Americans mostly with a few kind words and ready smiles.  Nhu
said she was undecided on where she would go to college this fall, but she noted
that she was interested in math, chemistry and improving her English. Tri, who
will be a senior this fall at either Benton High School or nearby Thompsonville
High, said he would like a career in electronics or electrical engineering but
also was interested in writing and literature.  Nhu has a budding talent on the
piano and organ - instruments she has studied for a few years. She proved it to
a reporter with a flawless organ performance of a song titled, ''Love is the
Name of the Game.'' The children and their mother were reluctant to criticize
the Vietnamese government, despite their serious problems with it. Thi said only
that she believed that the Hanoi government was becoming ''more open'' with its
citizens and was changing its oppressive ways - ''I think, a lot,'' she said.
Even so, she said she wanted her mother and a sister, who remain in Vietnam, to
join the rest of the family in the United States. She also has a sister in
Harrisburg, Pa., and a brother in San Jose, Calif., who escaped from Vietnam in
the early 1980s.  ''Now the Vietnamese government has relaxed its ways,'' and
some unhappy citizens are allowed to leave peacefully - although usually after
years of waiting, Darnell noted.  Darnell said his new family probably would
leave Akin, where he grew up, after about a year, to give his wife and stepchi
ldren more opportunities in a more populated area. He said Thi might want to
live near her sister in Pennsylvania or her brother in California.  Darnell
returned to Akin after retiring from SIUE in 1988 to help care for his mother,
who had been ill. His mother died earlier this year, and he said he had no
reason to stay in the small town after getting his new family accustomed to the
United States.  For now, his new wife and stepchildren are practicing their
driving on rural roads and preparing to take the Illinois driver's test. They
are concerned about the written test, but Darnell said he was confident that
they would pass it and get licenses.  Darnell said he was enjoying his new
wife's cooking.  Thi said, ''I would like to learn how to do American food.''
Darnell responded, ''And I'm hoping she doesn't. The Vietnamese food is
terrific.''

LOAD-DATE: October 12, 1993

LANGUAGE: English

GRAPHIC: Photo; PHOTO (COLOR)...Darnell's new family at Lambert.

                  Copyright 1992 St. Louis Post-Dispatch, Inc.


                              230 of 308 DOCUMENTS

                       St. Louis Post-Dispatch (Missouri)

                   July 21, 1992, TUESDAY, FIVE STAR Edition

BULLETIN BOARD

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 2A

LENGTH: 70 words


Meetings (REST) Gene McNary, commissioner of the Immigration and Naturalization
Service, will make his first public speech here Friday since leaving St. Louis
in 1989. McNary, the former St. Louis County executive, will appear at a lunch
at noon at the Press Club of Metropolitan St. Louis. McNary will discuss
''Immigration: Rising on the World Agenda.'' Reservations are required.
Information: 241-6397.

LOAD-DATE: October 12, 1993

LANGUAGE: English

                  Copyright 1992 St. Louis Post-Dispatch, Inc.


                              231 of 308 DOCUMENTS

                       St. Louis Post-Dispatch (Missouri)

                 August 2, 1992, SUNDAY, LATE FIVE STAR Edition

ELLIS ISLAND PROJECT STILL IN PLANNING STAGES

SECTION: TRAVEL; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 478 words


Q. I have heard that there is a computer at Ellis Island where one can enter the
name of an immigrant and find out when that person arrived in the United States.
Is this true?  A. There are plans to enter into a computer the records of all 12
million immigrants who passed through Ellis Island and make the information
available at the Ellis Island Immigration Museum, (212) 363-7620. However, that
project is years away, and needs much more funds, according to the National Park
Service. There are computers at the museum that contain the names on the Wall of
Honor in front of the museum, and their location on it. These names were put on
the wall to honor families that contributed at least $100 to the Statue of
Liberty-Ellis Island Foundation.  .  Q. I would appreciate information on a rock
festival held at Castle Donington, England. What are the dates, and how do you
buy tickets?  A. There will be a one-day heavy metal rock concert called the
Monsters of Rock on the grounds of Castle Donington in Derbyshire on Aug . 22.
The groups appearing will be Iron Maiden, Skid Row, Thunder, Slayer, The
Almighty and Wasp.  The music starts at noon and goes on into the night.
Tickets, about $51.50, must be bought in advance. They can be charged by credit
card by telephone, from the United States, (44 602) 483456 (if calling from
within Britain, omit the 44 and dial 0 before the number). Or you can send a
check (in pounds for 27.50 pounds) to Way Ahead, 18-20 St. James's Street,
Nottingham NG1 6FG, England. The organizers will operate buses between London
and other cities.  From London, about 120 miles away, round-trip fare is $39.
Q. How can I arrange to have a limo meet me at the airport in Paris?  A. To have
a chauffeur-driven car that holds four passengers pick you up at Charles de
Gaulle Airport will cost between $130 and $175 during the day and between $145
and $200 at night. (The price varies from company to company and by the size of
the car.) Costs for Orly airport are generally lower. By comparison a taxi trip
from Charles de Gaulle Airport costs roughly $52 and from Orly $30, plus $2 for
each piece of large luggage in the trunk. Most taxis will take three people
only.  Here are three companies that provide the service. Reservations should be
made by fax; request an English-speaking driver if you want one. If you are
calling from the United States, precede each number with 44 (the country code
for France) and 1 (the city code for the Paris area).  Aeroports Limousine
Services, fax 40.71.09.65, telephone 40.71.84.62. This company has parking lots
in front of each airport terminal.  International Limousines, fax 45.74.66.07,
telephone 45.74.77.12. People with Hertz discount cards get a 20 percent off if
they have reserved directly (not through a travel agency).  Biribin, fax
43.48.09.91, telephone 43.48.65.65.

LOAD-DATE: October 12, 1993

LANGUAGE: English

                  Copyright 1992 St. Louis Post-Dispatch, Inc.


                              232 of 308 DOCUMENTS

                       St. Louis Post-Dispatch (Missouri)

                 August 13, 1992, THURSDAY, THREE STAR Edition

HUMAN RIGHTS ABUSES ON BORDER ARE ALLEGED TO OAS PANEL

SECTION: WAR PAGE; Pg. 1C

LENGTH: 339 words


WASHINGTON (REST) DESPITE ITS LACK of jurisdiction, an international court was
told Wednesday of allegations of human rights violations by U.S. officials
against Mexican immigrants, refugees and even U.S. citizens.  A petition says
that the Immigration and Naturalization Service and the Border Patrol have
allowed serious abuses to go unpunished. The petition was sent to the
Inter-American Commission on Human Rights of the Organization of American
States.  The American Friends Service Committee says it receives about 10
beating cases a month and two or three shooting cases a month.  A field
coordinator for the Quaker group said a great many more Border Patrol abuses go
''unreported, since many of the victims fear retaliation, deportation or have no
faith in the system.'' Peter A. Schey, atto rney of record for the 12
petitioners, said he hoped that, even though the international court had no
authority in the United States, ''a decision by the OAS will put pressure on the
U.S. to bring an end to this legal terrorism by border patrol agents.'' The
petition alleges that the immigration service has ignored several reported cases
of abuse along the border, and in some instances has been insulting in its
responses.  The most violent border cases once were reported in the area south
of San Diego. But a series of shootings has led the Quaker group to target
Florida, Texas and Arizona.  In Arizona, Border Patrol agent Michael Elmer faces
murder charges in the death of migrant worker Dario Miranda Valenzuela. Elmer is
charged with shooting Valenzuela twice in the back while another officer
watched. Although four other officers were nearby, the shooting was not reported
until 15 hours later.  Duke Austin, a spokesman for the immigration service,
said, ''Just because these people have brought their claims to an international
body doesn't make their claims any more credible or well-founded than when they
submitted their claims to Congress earlier this month.'' A congressional hearing
took place Aug. 5.

LOAD-DATE: October 12, 1993

LANGUAGE: English

                  Copyright 1992 St. Louis Post-Dispatch, Inc.


                              233 of 308 DOCUMENTS

                       St. Louis Post-Dispatch (Missouri)

                  August 16, 1992, SUNDAY, THREE STAR Edition

31 GERMAN VISITORS TO HELP TOWN CELEBRATE ITS HERITAGE

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 6D

LENGTH: 200 words


Thirty-one visitors from the Lower Rhine area of Germany are joining 600
Missourians who are descendants of German immigrants on Sunday in Loose Creek,
Mo., to dedicate a monument to 19th century German immigration.  ''There hasn't
been this much excitement in Loose Creek since the Civil War,'' exclaimed Joe
Muenks, a retired contractor who lives in the unincorporated village 12 miles
east of Jefferson City. Muenks' grandfather was one of the 105 Rhinelanders who
came to the Maries River valley of central Missouri between the 1830s and the
1860s seeking a better life. Their names are engraved in the marble monument
that is being dedicated at noon Sunday following a special Mass at Immaculate
Conception Catholic Church in Loose Creek. The Mass will be concelebrated by
Bishop Michael McAuliffe of Jefferson City and five other priests. Monsignor
Bernhard Boessen, a descendant of Rhinelanders, will deliver the homily in both
German and English. A German pot roast dinner and a musical entertainment will
follow in the parish school.  Loose Creek, Muenks explained, got its present
name from the German newcomers' mispronunciation of the earlier French name,
L'Ours (Bear) Creek.

LOAD-DATE: October 12, 1993

LANGUAGE: English

                  Copyright 1992 St. Louis Post-Dispatch, Inc.


                              234 of 308 DOCUMENTS

                       St. Louis Post-Dispatch (Missouri)

                 August 20, 1992, THURSDAY, THREE STAR Edition

NATIVE TONGUE GERMANS PAY VISIT TO MISSOURI COUSINS

BYLINE: Victor Volland Of the Post-Dispatch Staff

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 3A

LENGTH: 486 words


It was a homecoming in rever se for 31 German visitors this week to Loose Creek,
Mo., near Jefferson City.  ''It is the most amazing thing that we come here to
Missouri and can still hear our native language and dialect spoken after five
generations,'' said Franz Josef Radmacher, a teacher and resident of the village
of Lank in the German Rhineland.  All of the 31 visitors, who took a sightseeing
side trip Wednesday to St.  Louis, are from Lank and neighboring small towns
near Duesseldorf.  The towns were the source of a wave of immigrants who left in
the 1830s and 1840s and settled in the rich central Missouri farm country just
south of the Missouri River and east of Jefferson City.  A local legend about
the ''lost Rhinelanders,'' who immigrated to America and disappeared, grew in
Lank and nearby towns, the visitors said.  Contact was lost by 1880, and people
assumed that the families that went to Missouri had scattered across the United
States, the visitors said.  The low German dialect, known as ''Lankerplatt'' or
''Rheinlandisch,'' still is spoken by the older generation in Loose Creek, much
to the visitors' surprise and delight, said Joe Muenks, who organized last
weekend's ''immigration reunion'' in Loose Creek.  The local dialect, which is
spoken in the lower Rhine area between Duesseldorf and the Belgian border, is
starting to die out in Germany as the old towns and villages absorb influxes of
newcomers and become bedroom suburbs for the large, industrial cities, Radmacher
observed. Muenks, a retired contractor, said the Lankerplatt dialect would die
with his generation in Loose Creek because few in the younger generations can
speak it. But he has hopes that the reconnection with Germany, which has stirred
much local interest in researching ancestral roots, will rekindle interest in
the language as well.  It was Muenks' proficiency in the dialect that
re-established that connection and helped clear up the mystery of the ''lost
Rhinelanders.'' In 1987, he and his wife, Pat, made their first trip to Germany
to seek out their roots. He knew the general area, but not the town, where his
grandfather had come from. While in Lank, he spoke the dialect he had learned as
a boy. It was recognized immediately as the local Lankerplatt.  The Muenks made
a second trip to Germany in 1990, when a city block in Lank was dedicated as
''Missouri Platz'' and they read a proclamation from Gov.  John Ashcroft.  More
than 600 descendants turned out Sunday in Loose Creek, which has fewer than 200
residents. The all-day shindig included a special Mass in German and English at
Immaculate Conception Catholic Church, a German pot-roast dinner in the church
hall and dedication of an immigration monument in front of the church.  The
large, granite marker lists the names of the 105 families that came from Lank
and other lower Rhine towns to settle in Missouri's Osage County.

LOAD-DATE: October 12, 1993

LANGUAGE: English

GRAPHIC: Photo; PHOTO by Karen Elshout/Post-Dispatch...Stefan Geisler, 13,
getting the measure of the Gateway Arch while touring the riverfront Wednesday
with a group from Germany. The group had visited central Missouri...

                  Copyright 1992 St. Louis Post-Dispatch, Inc.


                              235 of 308 DOCUMENTS

                       St. Louis Post-Dispatch (Missouri)

               September 6, 1992, SUNDAY, LATE FIVE STAR Edition

MUSLIMS AT NATIONAL CONVENTION ARE SEEKING UNITY

BYLINE: Kathryn Rogers Post-Dispatch Religion Writer

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 2C

LENGTH: 521 words


KANSAS CITY - Speakers at a national Islamic convention here are recalling
Koranic admonitions against racism and divisiveness as they prepare to bridge a
longstanding gap between immigrant Muslims and those who are indigenous to the
United States.  Earl Abdulmalik Mohammed, a black Muslim, urged the convention
Friday to heed the words of the prophet Muhammed that true believers love one
another.  ''I am here committed to unity, solidarity and hope for the ummah
(community) in North America,'' said Mohammed. He is an assistant to Imam W.
Deen Mohammed, the spiritual leader of about 1 million black Muslims. ''It is
our deep and sincere concern that the Muslims of North America, Muslims from the
entire Islamic world honor . . . the mission given them by Allah and his
messenger, that they love each other and support each other.'' Earl Mohammed
spoke at the opening session of the annual convention of the Islamic Society of
North America, the largest Muslim organization in the country. About 6,000
Muslims from the United States and Canada are expected to attend the convention,
which runs through Labor Day at the H. Roe Bartle Convention Center.  Most
members of the Islamic Society are immigrants or children of immigrants. The
organization plans to hold a joint convention next year in Atlanta with the
followers of W. Deen Mohammed, the son of Elijah Mohammed, founder of the Nation
of Islam.  W. Deen Mohammed is no longer associated with the Nation of Islam,
and Muslims say his followers and immigrant Muslims have no religious
differences. But over the years, separate communities were developed by Muslims
whose roots were in the Nation of Islam and by immigrants, said Syed Imtiaz
Ahmad, president of the Islamic Society.  ''When we came here 30 to 40 years ago
and went to colleges, we developed places to worship in isolation,'' he said.
Immigrants were apprehensive of American Muslims who were black separatists,
Ahmad said.  ''But the beautiful thing is we have come together,'' he said.
''This is the most positive development that has occurred in our history. If we
are going to prosper here, the ultimate responsibility has to lie with the
people born here - they know the culture.'' Muslims attending the conference
also are being urged to give politics ''a Muslim voice'' this year. ''It doesn't
matter how you vote; the important thing is for Muslims to establish
themselves,'' said Jamal Brezenj, who gave the sermon at the Friday afternoon
prayer.  ''There are 6 million to 7 million Muslims in the United States. What
if 1 million Muslims marched to Washington and demanded that something be done
about Bosnia-Herzegovina?'' he said.  (Following appeared in 3* edition.) A
position paper distributed Friday by the Islamic Society called for the United
States, Canada, the United Nations and all Muslim countries to do whatever is
necessary ''to stop Serbia's genocidal ethnic cleansing campaign in
Bosnia-Herzegovina and to repatriate Muslim and Croatian refugees.'' The
organization also is calling upon those same countries to end genocide in
Kashmir and starvation in Somalia.

LOAD-DATE: October 12, 1993

LANGUAGE: English

                  Copyright 1992 St. Louis Post-Dispatch, Inc.


                              236 of 308 DOCUMENTS

                       St. Louis Post-Dispatch (Missouri)

                  September 7, 1992, MONDAY, FIVE STAR Edition

HIV IMMIGRANTS SHOULD GO HOME

SECTION: EDITORIAL; Pg. 2B

LENGTH: 1632 words


I have just finished reading the Sept. 3 article, ''3 HIV-Infected Haitians
Allowed Into U.S.,'' I had to say, I am outraged.  The United States has seen
fit to provide the ''appropriate humanitarian response'' and give medical aid to
three individuals who are not even citizens. Further, and I quote the article:
''They are expected to remain in the United States. Once on American soil, they
have the right to legal counsel.'' Why are we providing medical treatment to
foreigners while our own AIDS victims are struggling to obtain basic health care
and legal counsel?  In our great country, we have countless Americans who cannot
afford health care. We have one of the highest infant mortality rates of the
industrialized nations because so many mothers cannot afford prenatal care.
When is the United States going to stop providing medical, legal, financial and
scholastic aid for foreigners, while we let our own citizens wallow in ill
health, illiteracy and poverty?  While I do not resent the Haitians, I do
question our leader's motives. I say, if we can afford to provide medical aid to
the three Haitians, let's provide medical aid to the millions of Americans who
so desperately need it and are paying the taxes for it.  Mary Kay Ruby
Florissant Enforce The Rules The Sept. 1 editorial, ''Tighten Rules For Nursing
Homes,'' which called for increased government regulation, bureaucracy and
spending to regulate nursing homes further, is simply wrong.  As president of
our community nursing home, I am familiar with the detailed inspections we are
frequently subjected to by the state. I can assure you that if all facilities
are held to the volumes of rules currently in effect, there would be no
substandard care. Further, if there are facilities that can stay in business
despite ignoring the current rules, I doubt their management would be any more
concerned about new regulations.  The result would simply be more costs for
everyone and further alienation of critically short staff due to horrendous
amounts of paperwork. Perhaps the Post-Dispatch's thrust should be toward
enforcement of the existing regulations before we burden the system with more.
Kem L. Schwieder Steelville, Mo.  The War Record In recent weeks I have heard
Gov. Bill Clinton, the Democratic nominee for the presidency, criticize
President Bush for not completing the war in the desert.  Clinton, like so many
other people - mostly Democrats - forget that Bush was acting as an agent for
the United Nations. And the United Nations gave the allies a mandate to clear
the Iraqi troops out of Kuwait - period.  And the U.S. troops, competently aided
by our allies, did just that. It is true that the U.S. commander wanted to go on
to bag Saddam Hussein in his foxhole in Baghdad. But the president wisely
followed the U.N. mandate and halted the allies in place.  If he had violated
the U.N. mandate, many Democrats would now be critical of the president's
violation, and they would be aided by many Third World countries, which, while
willing to accept our aid, reserve the right to criticize the United States when
we do something they think is wrong.  If there is any criticism to be made, it
is that the U.N. mandate was too limited, and, as a result, we and the rest of
world are in the mess we have with Saddam acting like the loose cannon he is.
Since Clinton evaded service and has never worn the uniform, he should keep his
mouth shut. But I fear he will follow in the footsteps of the other Democrats
who became president. They all got us into a war, and none of them won their
wars. Woodrow Wilson's ineptness threw up Adolf Hitler; Franklin D.  Roosevelt's
ineptness threw up Josef Stalin, and that resulted in 45 years of Cold War
interspersed with two hot wars and one guerrilla war, where the Afghans ran the
Soviets out of their country.  Korea was a tie, and Vietnam a defeat. We may
overlook Jimmy Carter, who was fearful of a war, but managed to kill a bunch of
Americans at Desert One.  And now Clinton - please God, no. We cannot accept
another defeat or another war in this 20th century.  Herbert T. Johnson Major
General U.S. Army Reserve (ret.) Ferguson Ballwin Daze Will someone please tell
me when candidates for public office became second-class citizens? The city of
Ballwin obviously did so when it allowed a ban on political campaigning at its
annual Ballwin Days 15 years ago.  This ban apparently included a prohibition
against a candidate giving away such things as helium balloons if the balloons
contained any sort of political content, such as the candidate's name and the
office sought.  In allowing the Ballwin Days Committee to set this prohibition,
the city in effect banned the First Amendment right of free speech of those
seeking public office, and, just as important, discouraged candidates from
attending the fair and deprived us of the benefit of our freedom of speech.
This year, someone finally had the courage to stand up and say enough is enough.
Carl Ward, who is running for state Senate in the 7th District, was turned away
by the Ballwin Days Committee and city officials on the first day of the fair,
but he took the city to court on the second day and obtained an injunction for
the remainder of the fair prohibiting the city from interfering with Ward's
right to give away helium balloons containing information about his candidacy.
Obviously, the reason the ban has stood for so long is because until now, no one
else had the political courage to refuse no for an answer. Ward has risked the
political consequences of suing the city to remind everyone that the First
Amendment is all important. This is the kind of person that the 7th District
needs in Jefferson City.  Bill Potthoff Ballwin Non-Religion Choice I was rather
surprised when I read the Aug. 31 letters to find myself included, along with
pornographers and Satanists, with the forces subverting our children and
destroying our society.  I have always thought of myself as a quiet, orderly
sort of secular humanist; a family man who has been in the law enforcement field
for more than 20 years. I certainly don't go around inflicting my views on young
children (something you can't say about evangelical types), since the concepts
are rather ''hardy,'' and most children have difficulty grasping them.  Most
people don't seem to have a very good idea of just what secular humanism is,
which is understandable - there's quite a bit of discussion on this topic among
humanists themselves.  Essentially, humanists see human beings as being respo
nsible for their own destiny and being ultimately capable of ordering their own
society, free of superstition and dogma. Our concerns are human rights, justice,
freedom, the environment, overpopulation, pollution and all human concerns that
are also being addressed by many religious groups. We simply do not see any
reason to appeal to the supernatural for assistance with these problems.
Humanists, as a whole, seem more concerned with society than many religious
groups, especially those who believe the present life is just a stepping stone
to the hereafter. Humanists are concerned with addressing and connecting
problems now, seeing no evidence of an afterlife.  Robert Weston feels that the
church (no denomination specified) is an important bulwark in the fight against
the destructive elements of our society.  A glance at the newspaper, however,
reveals numbers of vicious conflicts and civil wars that are being fought on
essentially religious grounds.  And so it has been historically as well.  I'm
rather proud to call myself a humanist.  Mark J. Werner Lemay Sour Note I read
with interest Kevin Smith's Aug. 30 letter regarding his Riverport experience.
If he thought Jimmy Buffett was bad, he should have been among the throng of
devotees who struggled to see Eric Clapton.  The traffic was backed up on
Interstate 70 to the Interstate 270 exchange.  It took more than an hour and a
half to get into Riverport, and when I did, I was forced to park in an unlit,
unsecured field just to the south of the Double Tree Hotel. The walk through the
unlit field was nearly 20 minutes, and Riverport still charges $4 to park; that
is the same amount they charge to get in the lot.  When I was leaving, I looked
for security guards with flashlights or shuttle service to take me back to my
car. Not wanting to get caught in an hour-long traffic jam going home, I left
early and alone. I was told I was on my own.  There are other performers I would
like to see. However, I would not return to Riverport - even if they gave me
tickets. I only need one unfavorable experience to learn my lesson.  Kathy R.
Rose St. Louis Planning Ahead Thanks for the Sept. 1 review of a book stressing
the advisability of pre-planning funerals, printed in the Dollars/Sense section.
Planning ahead for arrangements at death is especially important for the family
at a time of stress and pressure.  The Memorial and Planned Funeral Society of
St. Louis, a non-profit organization, was founded in 1963 for just such reasons
to be helpful to individuals in planning and arranging inexpensive and
meaningful funeral and memorial services.  Membership is for life and includes
planning forms, a yearly update of cooperating mortuaries that are inexpensive,
and information about legally necessary procedures. The Memorial and Planned
Funeral Society is also an educational organization.  I would like to correct
the author's implication that to plan ahead means to pay ahead to a funeral
home. You can plan ahead financially by establishing your own trust fund in a
bank to be used only for your funeral costs; interest from this will go to you
during your lifetime.  Marguerite Kowert President Memorial and Planned Funeral
Society St. Louis

LOAD-DATE: October 12, 1993

LANGUAGE: English

                  Copyright 1992 St. Louis Post-Dispatch, Inc.


                              237 of 308 DOCUMENTS

                       St. Louis Post-Dispatch (Missouri)

                 September 15, 1992, TUESDAY, FIVE STAR Edition

AFTER LIFETIME OF PAIN, PROMISE, MAN SEEKS CITIZENSHIP

BYLINE: Christine Bertelson Of the Post-Dispatch Staff

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 3A

LENGTH: 741 words


A FRAIL MAN in a brown plaid sport coat and straw hat stepped up to the
bulletproof window and fumbled for his wallet.  He had come to the Immigration
and Naturalization Service office on Spruce Street last week to renew his green
card. Then, on second thought, Arthur Palos asked the clerk behind the glass how
to apply for U.S. citizenship.  After 40 years, perhaps it was time.  ''He gets
these ideas in his head,'' said his son, John, 23, who lives with his father in
the 3700 block of Wisconsin Avenue in St. Louis. ''I don't know why he wants to
do it now, after all these years.'' Arturo Perez Palos was born 72 years ago in
San Juan de los Lagos in the Mexican state of Jalisco. His family owned a small
store there in the 1880s and 1890s. But by the time baby Arturo came along, the
youngest of seven children, there was not enough profit to support them all.
So, as more than a million Mexican fathers and mothers and children still do
each year, Arturo's father looked across the border for work. He found it making
gunpowder in a factory in California. After several years of irregular visits
and regular paychecks home, the family moved to a tiny town near Death Valley in
1927.  There would be many trips back and forth across the border for Arturo
from then on. Back to Mexico when his father got sick and died during the Great
Depression. Back to Illinois in 1943 to live in a boxcar with a gang of migrant
laborers, laying track for the Burlington Railroad for $30 a week.  Back to
Mexico to marry his young sweetheart, Maria de la Luz Sanchez and start a
family. Back to St. Louis in 1957, looking, as his father had, for a better life
for his family of seven children.  Palos remembers his first day on the job -
July 3, 1957 - at a local garage. Hot and dirty, to be sure, but a paycheck.
There would be five years of irregular visits and regular checks before he would
drive to Mexico, pack up his family and bring them here.  It was a struggle, of
course, supporting a family (now 10) on a mechanic's salary. So when a better
job came along, 15 years of transmissions and front ends later, he took it.
Palos spent the next 16 years working for Anheuser-Busch, cleaning equipment,
sweeping floors and unloading trucks.  He retired last year.  Many times over
the years Maria told him they should become citizens. Their English might not be
perfect yet, but they had worked as hard as - maybe harder than - most to make a
life here for their children and grandchildren (23 at last count).  But Palos
was always too busy, he said, or too lazy.  All that changed last April, when
Maria died of pancreatic cancer. She is buried in a Catholic cemetery, under
soil still too unsettled to lay a stone.  Perhaps becoming a citizen would make
her happy, Palos thought. Perhaps it would make his commitment to once-foreign
soil as final, in its way, as hers.  Palos had hoped that the word of his wife's
death might reach their son Guillermo, wherever he is. Three years ago,
Guillermo, a mental patient since 1969, wandered away from the St. Louis State
Hospital on Arsenal Street and has not been seen since. Guillermo was slightly
retarded, but a gentle, friendly and naive man, his family said.  Guillermo had
been sent to the state hospital at Fulton after he was arrested, accused of
fondling a woman in an elevator. The woman who accused him never appeared in
court to testify against him. But because neither Guillermo nor his parents
spoke fluent English at the time, and because of Guillermo's retardation, it
seemed the system allowed him no rights, his family said.  Guillermo was made a
ward of the state, and after seven years at Fulton he was transferred to the
state hospital on Arsenal Street. More than once he wandered off the grounds
without permission, but he always came back a few days, or weeks, later.  But
the last time he never reappeared. The family visited truck stops along the
highways, stopped at taverns and checked homeless shelters. They sent 2,000
posters to border crossings and border towns. Nothing. After three years, the
family hopes, but does not expect, that Guillermo is still alive.  In a few
weeks or months, Palos will fill out the necessary forms, pay the necessary
fees, and repeat an oath of loyalty to his country. Then, officially, the
history of Arturo Perez Palos - with all its promise and loss and hope - will
become part of ours. One man. One family. One nation.

LOAD-DATE: October 12, 1993

LANGUAGE: English

GRAPHIC: Photo; PHOTO HEADSHOT of Arthur Palos...Seeks citizenship

                  Copyright 1992 St. Louis Post-Dispatch, Inc.


                              238 of 308 DOCUMENTS

                       St. Louis Post-Dispatch (Missouri)

                 November 12, 1992, THURSDAY, FIVE STAR Edition

WRITER'S VOICE: JAPANESE IMMIGRATION TO BRAZIL

SECTION: CALENDAR; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 141 words


JAPANESE-AMERICAN writer Karen Tei Yamashita, who has spent several years
studying Japanese immigration to Brazil, will read from her works at 8 p.m.,
Nov. 13, St. Louis Brewery and Tap Room, 21st and Locust sts. The event is being
sponsored by the Writer's Voice of the West County YMCA and The New Theatre.
Yamashita went to Brazil in 1975 on a fellowship and spent two years following
the path of one particular immigrant story that began in San Paulo.  She ended
up marrying a Brazilian and staying in the country for 10 years before returning
with her family to her native California. She has written two novels, the
recently published ''Brazil Maru,'' and ''Through the Arc of the Rain Forest,''
which won the 1991 American Book Award and the 1992 Janet Heidinger Kafka Award.
Adm. $5, students and senior adults $3. (532-3100).

LOAD-DATE: October 12, 1993

LANGUAGE: English

GRAPHIC: Photo; PHOTO of Karen Tei Yamashita

                  Copyright 1992 St. Louis Post-Dispatch, Inc.


                              239 of 308 DOCUMENTS

                       St. Louis Post-Dispatch (Missouri)

                  December 20, 1992, SUNDAY, FIVE STAR Edition

SENTIMENTAL JOURNEY

BYLINE: Joe Pollack Of the Post-Dispatch Staff

SECTION: TRAVEL; Pg. 1T

LENGTH: 1978 words

DATELINE: NEW YORK


For 32 YEARS, it was the most welcome sight in the lives of more than 12 million
people. Even the Statue of Liberty, standing nearby in gleaming, patina-green
glory, took second place to the low brick buildings of Ellis Island, where
immigrants from Europe would take their first steps on U.S.  soil.  About a
third of them knew it was only the beginning of an even-longer journey. But at
least they were in America.  Ellis Island today is a national park and
Immigration Museum, and though only a little more than two years old, it has
become one of the must-see sights on any tour of New York. For more than 100
million Americans, it's a sentimental journey, a visit with the memories of
their grandparents, great-grandparents or great-great grandparents, a chance to
relive the first hours or days that their forebears spent in this country.
Ellis Island was opened in 1892, after the federal government took regulation of
immigration from the states during the 1880s and enacted the Immigration Act of
1891, which established the Bureau of Immigration. The flood of Eastern
Europeans had caused some critics to seek tighter standards; a few were
introduced, but the Open Door remained open. Fewere than 2 percent of those
landing at Ellis Island were sent home, most for reasons of illness, especially
contagious illness, or because they were impoverished. Later, politics crept
into the act, but rarely until after 1920.  Before the center was built on Ellis
Island, replacing a naval gunpowder storage depot, New York-bound Europeans
landed at Castle Garden, now the site of the ferry departure point. Castle
Garden, at the very tip of Manhattan Island, was built as a fort, then used as
an opera house, and was more to protect the immigrants than anything else. It
was a place to be safe from the hustlers who were looking for easy marks, a
place to buy food and railroad tickets, to await friends or relatives coming to
meet the newcomers.  Nothing in history matches the tide of immigration that
flowed to the United States; a few figures and some background may illustrate
it.  In 1790, the first census determined a non-Indian population of 3.9 million
people, about 80 percent from England and northern Europe, the remainder of
African origin. An interesting sidelight is the fact that three-fourths of
whites who came to this country from 1620 to 1780 came as indentured servants.
After the Napoleonic Wars, crossing the Atlantic became almost as common as
crossing a busy street, though certainly more arduous. Some 600,000 people came
between 1820-40, mainly from England and Ireland. In the next 20 years, five
times that many arrived, including almost a million Germans, Austrians and
Hungarians and about twice that many Irish.  Following a decade-long lull for
the Civil War and the start of Reconstruction, immigration picked up again with
heavy concentrations of French-Canadians from Canada, Scandinavians, and the
first Asians, who landed primarily in San Francisco. The largest influx of
eastern Europeans came after 1880, with Italians, Russians, Poles and Slavs
contributing some nine million to the American population before the 20th
century began, and another 14 million arriving in the 1900-1920 period.  During
the '30s and throughout World War II, the island was used as a detention site
for illegal aliens, criminals (like Lucky Luciano) awaiting deportation and
others. It also handled a few immigrants but processed its last one in November,
1954. Ellis Island may be closed, but immigration continues. About 8 million
people arrived from Asia and Latin America in 1960-80, a figure bolstered by an
estimated 1.5 million illegal entrants, and 1980-2000 will add another 7 million
or so.  The ferry from Castle Garden costs $6 for an adult ($5 for seniors, $3
for children), and its regular run includes stops at both the Statue of Liberty
and Ellis Island before returning to Manhattan, so a visitor can spend time at
either monument, or both. In addition to American tourists and the usual gaggles
of high-school students on an outing, there was a surprising number of foreign
tourists interested in their own family histories.  The brief boat ride, with a
fine view of the skyline, the harbor, Miss Liberty and the Verrazano Bridge,
also provided a wide range of foreign languages. Overheard were French, German,
Japanese, Hebrew, Norwegian, Italian and Spanish, plus several unidentified
ones, as people posed for countless photographs or chatted about the sights.
The island itself covered only three acres in early surveys by the Dutch, and
was named Gull Island by the Indians. Later it was known as Oyster Island,
Bucking Island and Gibbet Island, the latter for the fact that a pirate was
hanged there in 1765. During the Revolution, it was bought by Samuel Ellis, who
built a tavern for picknickers and fishermen and gave it his name.  After Ellis'
death, ownership was disputed until New York State acquired it by legislation in
1808 and sold it to the U.S. government for $10,000. With the building of the
Immigration Depot, more land was needed, and arriving ships dumped ballast as
fill. New York garbage did the rest. Today, the island covers 27.5 acres and is
almost like two islands joined at the head, with ferry landings in the gap.  The
brick and limestone buildings, with high, arched windows and copper domes, are
three stories tall. From the dock, with the eagerness of their ancestors but
without the trepidation, visitors stream toward the Main Hall, duplicating the
path taken by millions.  The main floor is huge, as large as the floor of the
St. Louis Arena, maybe larger, and the National Park Service has wisely left it
as open as it was in its busiest times. A giant pile of antique luggage serves
as a centerpiece and as a moment of history strong enough to cause a sudden
intake of breath, an equally sudden stop.  Bags and boxes, satchels, suitcases
and steamer trunks in all sizes and shapes, in carefully placed disarray, are
reminders of the days when immigrants, before being examined and cleared
upstairs, checked their baggage on the ground floor. Around the low glass wall
that protects the baggage, telephone receivers allow today's visitors to hear
yesterday's immigrants talking about their experiences on their arrival in the
Promised Land.  While the museum was in the building process, a call went out
for people who wanted to share, either actually or in conversation, their
histories, their memories. Thousands volunteered. Interviews were taped,
souvenirs and mementos were collected, and while an old railroad timetable or a
worn-out, long-expired passport would seem to have no value, they symbolized
precious memories, saved and protected for generations, that were now being
given back, almost as a "thank-you" offering.  Photo murals hang above the
exhibit, showing various scenes from Ellis Island in all the moods it created -
fear, anticipation, joy, panic, dismay.  Behind it, in another giant room, is a
series of three-dimensional graphs and charts that show the history of
immigration. Brightly colored and easy to follow, they illustrate the patterns
and the backgrounds of those who came here to find the promise of the
Declaration of Independence - life, liberty and the pursuit of happiness.  Two
giant displays dominate the room. One is an American flag. Looked at from one
angle, it's a flag; seen from another, it's a mosaic of some 750 portraits,
faces of Americans from every ethnic background. The other is a globe covered
with streams of lights that mark immigration patterns through the centuries as
people moved to new lands, embraced new countries.  The ground floor also houses
movie theaters where "Island of Hope - Island of Tears," produced and directed
by former St. Louisan Charles Guggenheim, tells the story of the island and its
reconstruction, with Gene Hackman as the narrator. Guggenheim did a similar film
on the construction of the Gateway Arch. The rehabilitation of the island was
much like that of Union Station, with workmen going back to the original walls,
then cleaning, plastering, painting, tiling, doing the carpentry necessary to
restore it to its past glory. More than $160 million was spent.  While the high
schoolers, and everyone else, continued to talk rapidly, there was a different
tone. Voices were softer, eyes wider as they gazed around the rooms, at the
photos and displays.  The stairs to the second floor and the Registry Room, or
Great Hall, are new, as is much of the lighting, but everything else has been
restored, and still looks as it did in the early 1920s, dominated by its
two-story-high ceiling. Even the long benches are the same as the ones on which
the immigrants sat. The ground floor may be more dramatic in terms of sweep and
scope, but the second and third floors are the spaces of intimate memory.
Again, photo murals are used to great effect, showing immigrants in their own
countries, at embarkation stops, aboard ship and in their early days in America,
both here and in various other cities. Newspaper ads show available jobs, though
thousands of women worked as domestic servants (in 1910, 81, 000 of 113,000
domestics were foreign-born). A 1905 article boasts of beer and wine, wool,
chemicals and industry hiring in St. Louis, an 1885 clipping points out that
California has almost 44 million acres and "a climate for health and wealth
without cyclones or blizzards." Pictures of hundreds of steamships allow
visitors with active family historians to pick out the very ship of the journey,
and a wall of old passports stands as a silent witness. There are photos of
immigrants on Mulberry and Hester streets, on the Lower East Side, but also
photos of newcomers in Philadelphia, Cincinnati, Methuen, Mass., and even
Belview, Minn.  Popular sheet music of the late 19th- and early 20th-century,
targeting the new arrivals, included such titles as "Yonkle, the Cowboy Jew,"
"Macaroni Joe," "I No Wash-ee Today," "Ireland Must Be Heaven, for My Mother
Came From There" and the all-purpose "Immigration Rose." A visitor can follow
the immigrant trail through the medical examining rooms at one end of the
building, the pre-historic equipment still on display.  Doctors ran the
newcomers through at a rapid clip, marking them with chalk if there were
questions: L for lameness, E for eyes, C for conjunctivitis, K for hernia, Pg
for pregnant, S for senile. Another doctor would take the marked ones out of
line for further examination, while family members waited in terrible fear.  The
third floor includes a history of the island, with old beds, dressers and
kitchen equipment, much covered with the dust of nearly 40 years.  Another area,
one of the most touching, includes displays of family histories - Bibles and
rosaries carried across the ocean, diaries of the journey, a shawl, a menorah, a
tablecloth, a hand-made quilt. All of it was donated by descendants in a
beautiful display of gratitude.  There isn't much mention of the thousands of
Ellis Island workers who soothed the frightened or nursed the ill, nor of the
others who herded newcomers along like so much cattle, or who changed
foreign-sounding names to something more "American." One of the few remembrances
is a mention that Fiorello H. LaGuardia, later mayor of the city from 1934-46,
worked here from 1907 to 1910 as an interpreter in German, Italian and Croatian,
using his salary of $1,200 a year to help finance his law studies.  Back
outside, where the youngsters toss Frisbees and the older folk munch a sandwich
or stroll while looking at the city, there's a sea wall topped by thousands of
plaques bearing more than 200,000 names. Grateful family members paid $100 each
for a plaque to honor forebears whose first - and most important - American
steps were taken on the small island in New York harbor.

LOAD-DATE: October 12, 1993

LANGUAGE: English

GRAPHIC: PHOTO; Color photos by the National Park Service (1) The museum and
main building on the northern end of Ellis island. (2) The Great Hall where
immigrants registered to enter the United States. (3) Among the memorabilia at
the museum are sheet music and theatrical posters reflecting the cultural
diversity of the people passing through the island. (4) The chamber at Ellis
island where an immigrant about to be deported could appeal his or her case,
Most were successful.

TYPE: PROFILE Ellis Island

                  Copyright 1992 St. Louis Post-Dispatch, Inc.


                              240 of 308 DOCUMENTS

                       St. Louis Post-Dispatch (Missouri)

                   January 4, 1993, MONDAY, FIVE STAR Edition

MONEY SOUGHT FOR TIBETANS TO SETTLE HERE

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 3A

LENGTH: 273 words


A local group is trying to raise as much as $ 40,000 to help resettle 25 Tibetan
refugees who will move here by April from refugee settlements in India and
Nepal.

The 25 are among 1,000 Tibetan immigrants coming to 20 American cities this year
under a special immigration visa plan passed by Congress in 1990 for the Tibetan
exile government.

About 150,000 Tibetans have fled their land - occupied and annexed by China
decades ago - for India and Nepal.

In addition to money, the group is seeking "volunteer hosts who will assist each
Tibetan to become familiar with life in St. Louis - everything from how to use a
toaster to how to pay the electric bill," said Cindy Curley, president of
Friends of Tibet, St. Louis.

Project officials said no government funds can be used for the Tibetans'
resettlement because the administration of President George Bush has refused to
grant them regular refugee status for fear of alienating the Chinese government.

The local group has found jobs for the first six immigrants but still is looking
for work for the others and for housing and other needs for all of them.

The project also will supply speakers to interested groups.

Nardi Hobler, a spokeswoman for the group, said all the immigrants lined up to
settle here are between the ages of 18 and 35.

Those who want to contribute money, housing and in-kind services or serve as a
volunteer sponsor should call Jane Mohnen, the project coordinator, at 862-6733.

People also can write the Tibetan Resettlement Project: St. Louis, 6611 Clayton
Road, Suite 203, St. Louis, Mo. 63117. Donations are tax-deductible.

LOAD-DATE: September 29, 1993

LANGUAGE: English

                  Copyright 1993 St. Louis Post-Dispatch, Inc.


                              241 of 308 DOCUMENTS

                       St. Louis Post-Dispatch (Missouri)

                  February 2, 1993, TUESDAY, FIVE STAR Edition

LETTERS FROM THE PEOPLE

SECTION: EDITORIAL; Pg. 2C

LENGTH: 533 words


Immigrant Nannies And The Law

The tax lawyer quoted in the Jan. 22 article from the Chicago Tribune - on the
obligations of those who employ baby-sitters and other domestic help - gave
incorrect information about the purpose of the Immigration Service's Form I-9,
Employment Eligibility Verification Form.

He said that the form is a declaration of citizenship. That is not correct.  The
purpose of the I-9 form is to verify that the employee being hired is actually
entitled to work in the United States. It is not a declaration of citizenship.
In fact, requiring a prospective employee to be a U.S. citizen would probably
subject the employer to a discrimination claim, in most cases.

A great many aliens present in the United States are eligible to work.  Any
alien who is a lawful permanent resident (the holder of a green card) can work
without limitation. In certain situations, students may work. Spouses of
exchange visitors may work. A number of other classes of non-immigrant aliens
can work in the United States.

In most, but not all cases, advance permission from the Immigration and
Naturalization Service is required. The Handbook for Employers (INS Form M-274),
which is available from any INS office, sets forth specifically what an employer
should do and should not do to determine whether a prospective employee is
authorized to work in the United States.

The tax lawyer quoted in the article is correct by stating: "It's not only for
someone you may think is an illegal alien. It's for everyone." The Immigration
Reform and Control Act of 1986 set up the Employer Verification Program and
provided penalties for employers who do not follow the procedure set forth, and
also provided penalties and legal redress against employers who discriminate in
hiring. An employer cannot simply say, "Well, I won't worry about that, I'll
only hire citizens." That in itself is a violation, and not doing the required
verification and record keeping is a further violation.

Immigration law, like any other field of law, can be complex and intimidating.
It's unfortunate that it took the situation involving Zoe Baird to bring public
attention to this somewhat common situation. But as an attorney who practices
predominately in the area of immigration law, I have a feeling of vindication.

For years, I've been telling people who call wanting to hire "that nice woman
from Guatemala" to baby-sit their children and clean house that the proper
procedure requires an application initially to the U.S. Department of Labor
through the Missouri Job Service, and ultimately to the INS. It is expensive,
lengthy and chancy. Most people don't want "that nice lady" two years from next
Thursday. They want her next Thursday.

Complaints about the process should not be with the lawyer or with the
Department of Labor or with the INS, but with Congress, which has established
these procedures. And keep in mind that Congress, when establishing the
procedures, had to weigh not only the needs of the prospective employers, but
also the needs of American workers for job opportunities. There are no easy
answers, as Baird's situation disclosed.

Darwin Portman

Clayton

LOAD-DATE: September 29, 1993

LANGUAGE: English

TYPE: LETTERS

                  Copyright 1993 St. Louis Post-Dispatch, Inc.


                              242 of 308 DOCUMENTS

                       St. Louis Post-Dispatch (Missouri)

                 February 18, 1993, THURSDAY, FIVE STAR Edition

SPORTS SHORTS; POLYNICE JOINS PROTEST OF IMMIGRATION POLICY

BYLINE: Compiled by Wendy Rabe Of the Post-Dispatch Staff

SECTION: SPORTS; Pg. 2D

LENGTH: 706 words

SPORTS SHORTS COLUMN


So far the Detroit Pistons have refused to talk about Olden Polynice's decision
to stop eating.

Polynice, the Pistons' 7-foot, 250-pound center, says he'll eat only on game
days as he joins the Rev. Jesse Jackson in a hunger strike to bring attention to
the United States immigration policy toward Haitian refugees.

Haitian-born Polynice did not say how long his partial fast, which he started
Sunday, would last.

Detroit coach Ron Rothstein declined to comment.

"It's something I really believe in . . .," Polynice said. "I understand we
can't let everybody in, but there has to be a balance." BASKETBALL 76ers'
Wilkins Fined

Philadelphia 76ers reserve center Eddie Lee Wilkins will be fined for critical
comments he made about the team. The amount of the fine was not disclosed.
Wilkins demanded to be traded in comments printed in Tuesday's editions of the
Inquirer. He also said that everyone else on the team wants out and that the
players were frustrated by coach Doug Moe's methods.  Bulls Sign Walker For
Season

The Chicago Bulls signed guard Darrell Walker for the duration of the season.
Walker, 31, originally signed a 10-day contract with the Bulls on Jan.  28 and
then signed a second 10-day contract Feb. 7. Terms of the contract were not
released.  Duke's Hill Out With Toe Sprain

Duke forward Grant Hill will be sidelined indefinitely with a sprained left toe
suffered in last weekend's loss to Wake Forest, coach Mike Krzyzewski said.

Thomas Elliott, Virginia Tech's leading scorer and rebounder, and Jimmy Carruth
were suspended for one game. Coach Bill Foster said the two starters were
suspended for violating a team rule. Foster declined to elaborate.  FOOTBALL
Texas A&M Probing Slush-Fund Rumor

Texas A&M has informed the NCAA of a prominent alumnus' allegation that a
recently banned booster was part of a secret attempt to organize a slush fund
for payments to football players. Robert Smith, the Texas A&M vice president in
charge of rules compliance, said his office also will investigate the
allegation.

The University of Louisville hired James Bell as defensive backfield coach.
Bell, 35, has been the defensive coordinator and defensive backfield coach at
Northwest Missouri State for the past five years.  Ex-Bill Haslett Joins Raiders

Former Buffalo Bills linebacker Jim Haslett was hired as linebackers coach of
the Los Angeles Raiders. Buffalo Personnel Worker Joins Broncs

Bob Ferguson, who played a key role in developing the Buffalo Bills through the
player-personnel office the past eight years, was named head of the Denver
Broncos' scouting department.  TENNIS Becker Outlasts Leconte

Top-seeded Boris Becker survived a three-set battle against Henri Leconte and
reached the second round of the Eurocard Open in Stuttgart, Germany.  Becker
worked his way to a 6-4, 6-7, 6-3 victory. Lendl Comes Back For Victory

Fourth-seeded Ivan Lendl rallied from a first-set loss and beat Marcos Ondruska
3-6, 6-3, 6-2 at the $ 700,000 U.S. Indoor tournament in Philadelphia.

Monica Seles moved into the quarterfinals of the Paris Women's Open with a 6-3,
6-4 victory over Judith Wiesner. Martina Navratilova moved into second round,
beating Katja Oeljeklaus, 6-1, 6-3.  MISCELLANEOUS New Jersey Man Leads In
Cleveland

Jeff Morini of Rockaway, N.J., averaged 240 over the first 12 games and grabbed
the lead at the $ 135,000 Cleveland Open. Morin, a part-time pro, knocked down
2,884 pins. Last week's champiion in St. Louis, Bob Learn Jr. of Erie, Pa.,
jumped from 43rd to second. His pinfall was 2,837. Jimmy Keeth was third, John
Losito f ourth and Len Blakey fifth.  Events To Be Held At Lake St. Louis

Lake St. Louis will be the site for the rowing, canoeing and kayaking events at
the 1994 U.S. Olympic Sports Festival. Those events are scheduled for July 2-8,
1994. The city's board of directors unanimously approved a request from Festival
organizers to use the lake.  Unser Jr. OK After Crash Al Unser Jr., winner of
the 1992 Indianapolis 500, escaped injury when he crashed during his first test
of a Lola Indy car at Phoenix International Raceway. Unser was bringing the 1993
Lola up to speed on the one-mile oval when the accident occurred.

LOAD-DATE: September 29, 1993

LANGUAGE: English

GRAPHIC: PHOTO; Photo - Duke Of Hazard: GRANT HILL, recovering from a toe
sprain, will take it week by week.

                  Copyright 1993 St. Louis Post-Dispatch, Inc.


                              243 of 308 DOCUMENTS

                       St. Louis Post-Dispatch (Missouri)

                  February 21, 1993, SUNDAY, FIVE STAR Edition

NEWCOMERS TURN DREAM INTO REALITY; JEWISH IMMIGRANTS MAKE HARD WORK PAY

BYLINE: Tom Wheatley Of the Post-Dispatch Staff

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 1D

LENGTH: 1125 words


You don't have to sell Adel Kantorovich on the American dream.

She and her family are a living sales pitch for what happens when grit is
permitted to meet opportunity.

Long before Adel knew that the Jewish Federation of St. Louis would help bring
Soviet Jews here, she believed in the American dream.

Even when her husband, Yefim, balked at leaving their established life in the
Ukraine, she believed.

Even when they and their three children were stranded for months in refugee
camps in Austria and Italy, she believed.

Even when they arrived here with four suitcases, $ 50 and 15 words of English
among them, she believed.

Adel, a journalist in the Soviet Union, was not discouraged when she had to take
a job here as a manicurist.

Or when Yefim, a mechanical engineer, began driving a taxi.

"You have to start at the bottom to go to the top," said Adel, now fluent in
English. "We came here to make this our dream, to be alive. We are ready to work
hard. Maybe because the Jewish people struggle so hard in Russia to prove
things, they just work harder.

"We want to have more than we had there. And we're not afraid of any
difficulties. It's slow, this is for sure, but it's the only way."

Slow? In just 3 1/2 years here, the Kantoroviches have a three-bedroom home in a
well-groomed neighborhood in Creve Coeur, three cars - an Audi, a Jeep and a
Firebird - and a son in college.

"We just got approved our credit," said Yefim, in serviceable English.  "We
can't buy everything in cash. People who came with us from Russia, it's the
same. It's not amazing."

Since 1988, the local Jewish Federation has helped bring 1,053 Soviet Jews here,
said communications director Jan Pollack.

The Kantoroviches may be unusual by American standards, but they are not
compared with other New Americans, as the former Soviet Jews are known.

"Many of these Russian immigrants are just absolutely brilliant," Pollack said.
"They come here, and they do not sit around and moan. They're real activists.
They have to be, to make it over here. And they are resourceful.

"Some of them work two jobs, 16 hours a day. I think some of them spend no
money. I don't know how they do it. I couldn't do it.

"You know what we sell as the American dream and don't believe? Well, they
believe it."

Their outlook comes from their upbringing in the mother country.

Adel said, "In Russia, it's not hard to get a good education. You don't have to
pay. You just have to pass the exam. But if you're Jewish, our parents told us,
'If you want to be on the top, you have to be three times smarter and work three
times harder than anybody else.' "

Adel laughed and said, "This is Russian, it's like a joke: Jewish children know
if they want to get anywhere in this life, they have to prove that they're not
an elephant.

"If too many people tell you you're an elephant, you start to believe that.  In
Russia, they hate you - not because you're good or bad, but because you're
Jewish."

She learned that cruel lesson at age 20. After getting a degree in music in the
Ukraine, she applied to study journalism at Kiev University.

The dean was pleased with her credentials until he checked her "passport," or
national ID card.

It identified her as a Jew.

"We don't prepare journalists for Israel," he snapped.

Adel was married, with an infant son. So she took correspondence courses from a
university in Tomsk, Siberia, going there for two months every term for final
exams.

Living here without such official shackles is a relief, but it takes practice.

Yefim said: "Don't laugh - it's not a joke - but we had to learn how to use
freedom. We didn't know what it was. I would worry, 'I don't have a passport.'
My friend said, 'Don't worry. You've got a drivers license? That's enough.' And
the employer-employee relationship is nice."

Yefim, 43, still has not found an engineering job. He works full time as a
mechanic at Petrofsky's Bakery.

Adel, 40, is not sure enough of her English to try journalism. She teaches voice
and piano.

Their son, Vladimir, is a sophomore and a pre-med student at St. Louis
University, where he works part time and gets other financial aid.

The family also includes 8-year-old twin girls, Svetlana and Yelana, who attend
public school at Craig Elementary in Creve Coeur.

Yefim works weekdays until 5 p.m. Adel leaves home by 3 p.m. to teach past 9
p.m. at the Yamaha Music School or the Epstein Hebrew Academy. She also works on
Saturday.

"Right now, we got one day, Sunday, to get together," Yefim said.

He is not complaining, despite working below his qualifications.

As Adel said, "People ask, why did you leave Russia? If you could measure our
position in that life, we were not in the middle. We were at the top.

"We had a car and a one-bedroom apartment, which many people didn't have there.
But we did not have a future. We came here to give a good life to our children."

And to their relatives. Fifteen have followed Adel and Yefim here, including
both sets of parents.

Adel's brother, who has a doctorate in physics from a school in Russia, started
here as a pizza delivery man.

So did a relative of Yefim, who was robbed and badly beaten during a recent
delivery. A construction engineer, he is now out of the hospital and starting a
new job as a mechanic.

New Americans with family here have obvious advantages. Adel and Yefim relied on
the Jewish Federation for their first four months.

"And we had many friends," Yefim said.

To which Adel said, "I just think the greatest part of America is the people."

Among their friends here are Michael and Sofia Portnoy, who sponsored their
departure from the Ukraine; Mitchell and Yael Alevy; Ben and Radine Borowsky;
and Joel and Maxine Goldstein.

The Goldsteins led the recent "Super Week" of fund raising by the Jewish
Federation.

The event raised a record $ 828,632 for Jewish services, plus another $ 23,000
for Operation Exodus to help Jews emigrate from the former Soviet Union.

Some New Americans need more help than others.

"Some people who had a very good position in Russia, they come here and they
think the money will just fall like snow from the sky," Adel said.  "These
people who cannot rush slowly - you know what I mean? - they complain, and they
can't be happy."

They understand the opportunity part of the American dream. They forget the
other corollary, that hard work is required.

"You have to put yourself down and start over," Adel said. "It's not easy,
especially if you don't know the language. Can you imagine, all the time being
uncomfortable?

"But if you work hard and you have a goal and you believe in your life, you can
do it."

LOAD-DATE: September 29, 1993

LANGUAGE: English

GRAPHIC: PHOTO, GRAPHIC; (1) Photo by Kevin Manning/Post-Dispatch Former Soviet
Jews Yefim Kantorovich (center), his wife, Adel, their son, Vladimir, and their
8-year-old twin girls, Svetlana (left) and Yelana. The family is enjoying the
Amerian dream in Creve Coeur after emigrating here 3 1/2 years ago from the
Ukraine. (2) Graphic / Post-Dispatch Chart - JEWISH IMMIGRATION

TYPE: PROFILE YEFIM KANTOROVICH

                  Copyright 1993 St. Louis Post-Dispatch, Inc.


                              244 of 308 DOCUMENTS

                       St. Louis Post-Dispatch (Missouri)

                  February 21, 1993, SUNDAY, FIVE STAR Edition

IMMIGRANTS NEED DONATIONS AND TUTORS

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 5D

LENGTH: 114 words


Bringing Jewish immigrants here from the former Soviet Union requires a strong
commitment from local volunteers.

Jan Pollack, communications director for the Jewish Federation of St.  Louis,
said help is needed from within and outside the Jewish community.

"If people have a job to offer or things to donate, like furniture, these are
badly needed," Pollack said. "We need English language tutors and host families
to help them adjust.

"It sounds funny, but many of them don't know how to shop. Basically, they need
help just knowing how to be an American."

For more information on helping these New Americans, call the Jewish Information
Service at 991-2299.

LOAD-DATE: September 29, 1993

LANGUAGE: English

                  Copyright 1993 St. Louis Post-Dispatch, Inc.


                              245 of 308 DOCUMENTS

                       St. Louis Post-Dispatch (Missouri)

                  February 22, 1993, MONDAY, FIVE STAR Edition

SUPPORTERS PREPARE FOR TIBETANS; TALK AT NEW YEAR'S PARTY TURNS TO RESETTLING 25
REFUGEES HERE

BYLINE: Kathryn Rogers Post-Dispatch Religion Writer

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 3A

LENGTH: 570 words


The smell of burning incense is not unfamiliar at St. Michael & St. George
Episcopal Church, but the offerings on an altar there Sunday were unlike any
seen before: bread, butter, tea, dried apricots, mixed nuts and rock candy.

Those foods, the Tibetan flag and the two portraits of the Dalai Lama were sure
signs that this was not an Episcopal gathering, but a Tibetan celebration - in
fact, the first in St. Louis marking the Tibetan New Year, called "Losar."

The Friends Of Tibet of St. Louis sponsored the celebration Sunday in a meeting
hall at St. Michael & St. George, 6345 Wydown Boulevard. Today is the first day
of the Tibetan year 2120, which appears to be counted from the ascension of the
first king to the Tibetan throne in 127 B.C.

The festival featured plenty of delicious smelling traditional food - mushroom
and pasta soup, fried bread, various meat and vegetable curries - as well as
music and some songs and dances by two young, merry Tibetan women. But it also
sparked plenty of serious talk - about how best to help the 25 Tibetan
immigrants who will be settling in St. Louis over the next few months.

The immigrants are among 1,000 Tibetans coming to the United States by the end
of the year from Dharamsala, India, using special immigrant visas granted in
1990 by Congress.

Dharamsala was founded by Tibetans who fled from their home country in the 1950s
after an unsuccessful national uprising to expel the Chinese, who had invaded
the country 10 years earlier. The Dalai Lama, the spiritual leader of Tibetan
Buddhists, lives in Dharamsala. He will be visiting the United States this
summer and is expected to come to St. Louis.

The first immigrants here - five men - will arrive in St. Louis next month.
Their resettlement is a project of Friends of Tibet, which has found individual
and agency sponsors for the immigrants. As immigrants, the newcomers are not
eligible for much government assistance.

Friends of Tibet also has found jobs for all those coming, said Cindy Curley, a
volunteer with the organization. The first five will work at a local metal
fabrication company and start English classes immediately.

Before the celebration Sunday, Eric Wernecke, a spokesman for Catholic Charities
of St. Louis, told the audience of host families and resettlement volunteers
that immigrants might get depressed about their situation.

"Understand that these persons are going through a tremendous change," Wernecke
said. "Their culture, their friends, their families are all eliminated. . . .
There may be depression. They may well come to you and say 'This is too much.
This is overwhelming.' "

Catholic Charities is helping to settle the Tibetans here.

Two Tibetan women, Chhewang Butee, 20, and Kunsang Tsomo, 21, who have been in
the U.S. for a while and speak English fluently, have come to St.  Louis to help
the immigrants.

"It will not be hard for them to adjust to the culture," said Butee, who did
much of the cooking for Sunday's festival. "Most of India has been westernized.
Lots of tourists come to India, so they have had exposure."

But a song written by a Tibetan refugee in India and sung Sunday by Butee and
Tsomo indicates any immigrant is likely to suffer from homesickness.  "It is
dedicated to everyone deprived of their country," Tsomo said. "The man is
singing, 'We want to fly back to our country like a bird would fly.' "

LOAD-DATE: September 29, 1993

LANGUAGE: English

GRAPHIC: PHOTO; Photo by Wendi Fitzgerald/Post-Dispatch - Kunsang Tsomo, 21,
(left) and Chhewang Butee, 20, singing a Tibetan song Sunday at St. Louis' first
Tibetan New Year celebration.

                  Copyright 1993 St. Louis Post-Dispatch, Inc.


                              246 of 308 DOCUMENTS

                       St. Louis Post-Dispatch (Missouri)

                  February 22, 1993, MONDAY, FIVE STAR Edition

VERIFY ALL DOCUMENTS CAREFULLY

SECTION: BUSINESS PLUS; Pg. 8

LENGTH: 293 words


All new employees must fill out the I-9 Employment Eligibility Verification form
from the U.S. Immigration and Naturalization Service.

For most U.S. citizens, the form is just more paperwork.

But if the new hire is an alien, getting the proper documents becomes important
for the employer, who could face heavy fines for hiring an illegal worker.

But the problem for employers is that legal documentation comes in all shapes,
sizes and issuing authorities.

Like a menu in a Chinese restaurant, employers can pick from three different INS
"Lists of Acceptable Documents" for filling out the I-9.

List A includes 10 official documents. Any of these can establish both identity
and employment eligibility. They include:

A U.S. passport.

INS certifications of U.S. citizenship or naturalization.

An Alien Registration Receipt card with photo.

Current temporary resident or employment cards.

A current re-entry permit or refugee travel documents.

Without these documents, the employer has to accept one document from List B and
one from List C.

List B has 12 documents to establishes a person's identity. Among them are:

Federal, state, local or U.S. territorial drivers license or ID cards with
photo, name, date of birth, sex, height, eye color and address.

A school ID with photo.

A voter's registration card.

A U.S. military, Coast Guard, Merchant Marine or military dependent ID card.

A Native American tribal document.

A Canadian drivers license or ID card.

To establish employment eligibility there are seven items on List C, including
among others:

A Social Security card.

A certified U.S. birth certificate.

A Native American tribal document.

An INS-issued U.S. citizen ID card.

LOAD-DATE: September 29, 1993

LANGUAGE: English

                  Copyright 1993 St. Louis Post-Dispatch, Inc.


                              247 of 308 DOCUMENTS

                       St. Louis Post-Dispatch (Missouri)

                    March 1, 1993, MONDAY, FIVE STAR Edition

REFUGEE POLICY ON HAITI IS SOUND, CHRISTOPHER SAYS; CAMPAIGN PROMISES CALLED
ILL-ADVISED

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 10A

LENGTH: 601 words

DATELINE: WASHINGTON


Secretary of State Warren M. Christopher on Sunday defended the administration's
policy of turning away Haitian refugees, saying it was now clear that President
Bill Clinton's campaign-period stance on Haiti was ill-advised.

"I think our Haitian policy is the one that's soundest at the present time,"
Christopher said on NBC-TV's "Meet the Press." "And I don't suppose you'd want
anybody to keep a campaign promise if it was a very unsound policy."

During the campaign, Clinton criticized President George Bush's policy of
immediate repatriation for Haitian boat people and promised a more open door for
refugees. But since taking office, he has continued U.S. Coast Guard operations
to stop refugees and return them to Haiti.

Christopher was asked about administration plans to argue before the Supreme
Court this week that these operations are legal and should continue.

"We found a difficult situation in Haiti, and we're moving to try to restore
democracy there," he said. He noted that Clinton would meet this week with
President Jean-Bertrand Aristide, the Haitian leader deposed in a military coup
on September 1991.

Christopher said an additional $ 5 million would soon be authorized to help
process the applications of Haitians in Haiti who are seeking political asylum
in the United States.

Christopher insisted that Clinton had "stayed consistent with his themes of
having a more activist American foreign policy."

"If there are minor deviations from what he said in the campaign, nevertheless
overall, I think the substance is right," he added.

Asked also about Bosnia, Christopher said there were "many problems that
President Clinton found on his plate when he came into office. And I think the
responsible thing to do is to take the action that is in the interest of most of
the people after you get into office, that'll save the most lives or risk the
fewest lives."

Christopher said that while there were minor risks involved in the airdrop of
relief goods over eastern Bosnia, "there is a greater risk down the road if we
do nothing."

"That's why we're involved, essentially, because the United States has a stake
in preventing the world from going up in flames," he said.

He said the administration is now opposed to lifting the arms embargo for
Bosnian Muslims, another pre-election suggestion by Clinton. He said that "we
found, when we consulted with our allies, that if we would try to lift the arms
embargo, they would probably abandon their humanitarian efforts."

Christopher also said there "was very little chance" of a change of policy
toward Cuba, including the lifting of the economic embargo, as long as Fidel
Castro is in power.

With respect to China, another country where Clinton advocated a get-tough
policy during the campaign, Christopher said the president would support renewal
of China's favorable trade status if progress is seen in human rights.

"I think that President Clinton will be embracing a renewal of most favored
nation's treatment only if we see real progress toward democracy in China, " he
said.

Christopher also said Sunday that he was confident Middle East peace talks will
resume in Washington in April. He hinted at further easing of the crisis over
Israel's deportation of 413 Palestinians.

"I think the parties will agree to resume the conversations in April,"
Christopher said.

Christopher said without elaboration that he believed there will be developments
shortly easing the peace talk obstacle of Israel's deportation of the 413
Palestinians to an exposed hillside in southern Lebanon.

LOAD-DATE: September 29, 1993

LANGUAGE: English

GRAPHIC: PHOTO; Photo Headshot of Warren M. Christopher - Secretary of state

                  Copyright 1993 St. Louis Post-Dispatch, Inc.


                              248 of 308 DOCUMENTS

                       St. Louis Post-Dispatch (Missouri)

                    March 1, 1993, MONDAY, FIVE STAR Edition

STAY OR GO: JEWS WEIGH FUTURE

BYLINE: Robert L. Koenig Post-Dispatch Washington Bureau

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 7A

LENGTH: 811 words

DATELINE: BERLIN


For David Drimmer, the moments of truth came when he was "undercover," playing
soccer with his German high-school team.

"Dirty Jew!" some rowdy soccer fans shouted at referees who had made bad calls.
During one game, some Germans joked about gas chambers.

Drimmer didn't laugh. He is Jewish, and his teammates didn't know it.  After he
graduated from high school in Berlin, he went to college in Canada.  Drimmer,
20, doesn't want to live in Germany again.

"You can't change the mentality of the people," he said.

David Drimmer's decision to leave sparked a debate within his own family that
reflects the turmoil in Germany's Jewish community. With an influx of immigrants
from the former Soviet Union, the number of Jews in Germany has grown to more
than 40,000. But some are leaving, including about 200 who emigrated to Israel
last year; dozens want to live in the United States.

Drimmer's family remains in Berlin. When he visited last month, his parents,
sister and brother each had a different reaction:

His mother, Norma Drimmer, who was born of Jewish parents in the war-ravaged
ruins of Berlin, wants to stay in Germany.

Though concerned about right-wing violence, she is heartened by the German
government's recent crackdown on neo-Nazi groups. As a member of the Jewish
community's board in Berlin, she is responsible for the area's Jewish
educational system.

His father, Jeffrey Drimmer, is more pessimistic about right-wing violence.  He
might favor leaving if conditions deteriorated. Drimmer, 47, is a native New
Yorker who moved to Germany in the late 1960s after meeting Norma on a trip to
Israel.

A businessman, he fears that Germany's economy will continue to slide,
unemployment will increase and anti-foreigner sentiment will worsen. But he says
"there is no direct threat" now to Jews in Germany, even though anti-Semitism
"is always there, just under the surface."

David's sister, Deborah, 18, is heartened by the massive German demonstrations
against the violence. She wants to stay.

"There is anti-Semitism all over the world, not only in Germany," says Deborah,
citing Poland and Austria as examples.

Deborah, who is president of the B'nai B'rith youth group in Germany, says many
eastern Germans are curious about Jewish culture, religion and traditions. She
was surprised that one eastern German classmate had learned Yiddish songs in
school.

His younger brother, Lenny, 14, wants to leave Germany after he graduates from
high school. "Once the Wall came down, I knew what was going to happen. I wanted
to leave then," said Lenny.

One night as he headed home from a demonstration, Lenny was carrying a placard
protesting violence against foreigners. Separately, four Germans criticized the
sign. "They said if a Turk would beat me up, then I would feel differently," he
said.

Before Adolf Hitler rose to power in 1933, more than 600,000 Jews lived in
Germany. Most fled or died in the Holocaust. In all, 6 million European Jews
perished between 1933 and 1945. Many of Germany's neo-Nazis deny that the
Holocaust ever happened.

So far, authorities say, only a small proportion of Germany's right-wing
violence is directed at Jews. That includes about 104 incidents of desecration
of Jewish cemeteries, synagogues and memorials last year. But many German Jews
worry about a surge in the number of anti-Semitic incidents last fall.

In Wuppertal, in western Germany, three rightist radicals beat and set afire an
unemployed butcher whom they believed to be Jewish. He died. At Sachsenhausen,
Ravensbrueck and near Dachau, skinheads and other extremists damaged
concentration camp memorials.

In a report issued in January, the Anti-Defamation League of B'nai B'rith said
right-wing radicals hit "an astonishing number of Jewish targets" in October.
Six hundred neo-Nazis shouted "Jews Must Perish" as they marched through Dresden
on Oct. 4, the report said. League officials were encouraged by the German
government's crackdown on neo-Nazi groups but urged further steps "to completely
eliminate the neo-Nazi menace."

Norma Drimmer, daughter of Polish Jews who survived the Holocaust, hopes the
right-radical tide will ebb. After World War II, her family lived in Germany on
the assumption that the family would leave someday. But the family remained
because her mother became ill and could not move.

Like many other Jews in Germany, Norma Drimmer still struggles with the notion
of being a German Jew - rather than a Jewish person who is living, for the time
being, in Germany.

"I am very Jewish and I have a lot of German culture in me," Drimmer said.  "But
it is too early - as the first post-war generation of German Jews - to say I am
truly a German Jew."

Then she added: "As long as people feel the need to ask that question, then
perhaps I am not a German Jew."

LOAD-DATE: September 29, 1993

LANGUAGE: English

GRAPHIC: PHOTO, GRAPHIC; (1) Photo by Robert Koenig/Post-Dispatch - David
Drimmer (left) with his family in Berlin: sister, Deborah; brother Lenny; mother
Norma; and father Jeffrey. David Drimmer left Germany to attend college in
Canada.  (2) Graphic - Post-Dispatch Chart by James Cook showing by bar graph
the desecrations of Jewish cemeteries, synagogues and memorials in Germany from
1982 through 1992. Source: German Federal Office for the Protection of the
Constitution. (3) Photo by AP of desecrated tombstones in a Jewish cemetery.
(Photo ran with the above graphic)

                  Copyright 1993 St. Louis Post-Dispatch, Inc.


                              249 of 308 DOCUMENTS

                       St. Louis Post-Dispatch (Missouri)

                   March 2, 1993, TUESDAY, FIVE STAR Edition

WORKS EVOKE THE LONG JOURNEY OF IMMIGRANTS

BYLINE: Carol Ferring Shepley

SECTION: EVERYDAY MAGAZINE; Pg. 3D

LENGTH: 521 words


THE LONG Winding Road at COCA exhibits works by three Filipino-American artists
in their 20s.

The title, guest curator Mel Harris explains, comes from the immigrant
experience.

"For many families the process of immigration is a long winding road that
doubles back on itself with each succeeding generation. It is an unfortunate
fact that acceptance in America more often than not depends upon race," he says.

For all three artists (Maria Ojascastro and Ricci Racela, born in this country
of immigrant parents, and Eric Manabat having immigrated as a toddler) the
nostalgia and pain of living in two cultures at once enrich their imagery.

Start with Manabat's installation, "For English Only." He explores his poignant
family story in sculpture, painting and writing to the relentless accompaniment
of "Moon River," his father's favorite song.

Nearly everyone can share in the artist's feelings of hating to be different
from peers and of being at the same time angry at, ashamed of and protective
toward parents.

The Oedipal drama unfolds in a giant cockfight. A paper mache figure in green
surgical garb, his physician father stands dominant with huge wings unfurled
over the son, identified by a Green Bay Packers football helmet, representing
the town to which the Manabats immigrated. He exposes his chest to his father as
if to say "Hurt me."

Manabat renders the nine surrounding paintings in a primitive and unlovely style
to represent raw emotions.

Placed in chronological order, each represents a snapshot from the family album.
Telling a tale of his parents' divorce, he tears his father's face from early
shots but comes to a resolution in the final image where his father holds his
brother's infant daughter.

Manabat writes of visiting his father in the hospital after heart surgery and
finding "my resemblance to him. We have the same eyes; no hair, and we married
white women."

Racela's is far more technically sophisticated. She forms collages by tearing
photos, painting on them and adding Xeroxed photos on acetate overlays. She then
rephotographs the whole for a smooth, consistent finish.

Her images also tell of the split between American and Filipino values.

In "Lost Innocence," the large framing image represents a fashion model symbolic
of the American cult of superficial beauty and wealth. Inside the cheek, Racela
places a barefoot Far Eastern woman draped in rags sweeping snow off a dugout,
representing poverty and struggle for survival.

In contrast to her contemporaries, Ojascastro's work is abstract, smooth and
sophisticated, lacking in psychological and political message.

Yet these monumental linoleum prints convey nostalgia for Filipino roots as
well. They are large; as big as 7 feet by 61/2, heavily textured with prints
from many blocks and composed of two sheets of paper - representing her
bi-cultural heritage.

Made up of a dynamic balance of geometric elements, they present abstract images
of walled gardens and tropical plants not unlike the corner of their native land
that her parents created in their home in St. Louis.

LOAD-DATE: September 29, 1993

LANGUAGE: English

TYPE: REVIEW/ART

                  Copyright 1993 St. Louis Post-Dispatch, Inc.


                              250 of 308 DOCUMENTS

                       St. Louis Post-Dispatch (Missouri)

                   March 14, 1993, SUNDAY, FIVE STAR Edition

TRADE CENTER BLAST FUELS NEW IMMIGRATION WORRIES

BYLINE: Jon Sawyer Post-Dispatch Washington Bureau

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 1A

LENGTH: 1225 words

DATELINE: WASHINGTON


If a foreigner deplanes anywhere in the United States without valid travel
documents - and can't make an on-the-spot case for asylum - should he be shipped
out on the very next plane?

Should aliens who cannot produce proper documents be thrown in prison - no
matter how many prison cells it takes - until each asylum case is determined?

Should every American traveler, and every foreign visitor to the United States,
be fingerprinted into a data base for a vast new security system?

These questions aren't new, but they're being asked with a new urgency after a
bomb rocked the World Trade Center in New York. The blast shattered the belief
of many in a fortress America that was somehow invulnerable to international
terrorism.

The explosion also showed, experts fear, that penetrating America's borders is
about as easy as building the makeshift bomb, which made a hole six stories deep
in lower Manhattan.

The first man arrested in the case, a Jordanian citizen of Palestinian descent,
had a tourist visa that had expired in August 1988. No one picked him up, even
though he applied twice - illegally - for an alien amnesty program not intended
for him.

The man said to be his spiritual leader, a radical Islamic cleric from Egypt who
has espoused the violent overthrow of that nation's government, slipped into the
United States two years ago on an improperly issued tourist visa. He remains
here, his application for political asylum pending after more than a year.

Those are the facts, as known so far. The debate they have fueled touches the
most deep-seated of American values, from national security to due process under
law to our self-image as the sheltering haven for immigrants the world over.

"Keeping America an open society, the way it is now, is going to be dangerous
for us if these groups begin to operate here," warned Robert Jenkins, a
specialist on terrorism for the House Foreign Affairs Committee.  "We've got to
have more controls on the people who come here, because people know our system
and they're exploiting it."

There's a bull market in proposals for more controls:

Summary exclusion: Sen. Alan K. Simpson, R-Wyo., will introduce legislation this
week that would require expedited hearings and same-day expulsion for
undocumented aliens who arrive in the United States with unsubstantiated claims
for political asylum.

Jail time: Rep. Charles E. Schumer, D-N.Y., chairman of the House Judiciary
subcommittee on crime, is proposing more prisons for the detention of aliens
awaiting judgment on their asylum requests.

"Big Brother:" Gene McNary, who until January was commissioner of the
Immigration and Naturalization Service, says one answer lies in new technology.
That would be a vast data bank of fingerprints from U.S.  citizens and visitors,
one that could be scanned at airports.

The numbers are formidable, INS data suggest.

About 21 million foreigners enter the United States each year. About 500,000 of
them apparently overstay their visas; the INS can't say for sure, because it has
no system, and no resources, for tracking them down.

In the unlikely event that someone who overstayed his visa is apprehended, INS
spokesman Duke Austin said, "He's got the trump card in his back pocket.  He can
apply for asylum, even if it's a year or two or three later."

The INS currently has 250,000 asylum cases pending, with just 120 asylum
officers and 100 administrative judges and a board of immigration appeals to
handle the crush. "It takes probably a year before you even get an interview in
front of us," Austin said.

On any given day the INS has 5,000 aliens in detention, most of them for periods
of just a few days. The vast majority of those seeking asylum, including those
who showed up in the country with no passport or visa, are released on personal
recognizance and given temporary work permits.

McNary - the former St. Louis County executive - said in an interview last week
that he favored Sen. Simpson's proposal on summary exclusion and believes that
due-process concerns could be met by having specially trained INS adjudicators
at the airports.

"The theory is that once we turn these people around in cases that are obvious,
where there is clearly no 'well-founded fear of persecution' - the standard for
asylum - we would then have the resources to make a quick and fair determination
of the asylum status of those who might legitimately be seeking asylum," he
said.

On the technology front, McNary noted that the INS is about to begin a pilot
"handscan" program at Newark and John F. Kennedy international airports in the
New York area. A foreign traveler will be able to purchase an INS-PASS card,
electronically coded to match the "bio-data" in the person's hand.
Participants, instead of going through the normal immigration procedure, will
instead use the handscan matcher, a process that McNary said should take about
20 seconds a person.

Farther down the road, he said, the FBI is developing AFIS - the "automated
fingerprint inspection system." This would apply to American citizens and
foreign travelers alike, permitting an instant, at-the-airport check of prints
against law enforcement lists of criminals and members of suspect groups.

"With all of this computerized at the airports," McNary said, "you'd have a more
efficient way of processing people through. . . . You'd be in a position not
only to run through speedily the people who are legitimate, but also, just as
quickly, to identify those on the look-out lists."

McNary believes civil liberties concerns could be overcome, either by making
participation voluntary or by limits on use of the data by other agencies.

Lucas Guttentag, the ACLU's specialist on immigrant rights, wasn't persuaded,
either by the guarantees or by the technology.

"Instead of looking at known problems, and using established technology," he
said, "it's looking to unknown technology and vast new expenditures of money
that will ultimately fail, because of mismanagement."

The INS office in New York has spent millions of dollars on an elaborate new
computer system, he said, but ACLU clients inquiring about the status of their
asylum petitions, and annual work permits, still can't get an answer.

"If your drivers license or paycheck were dependent on INS, on its ability to
keep track of information, you wouldn't get paid very often and you wouldn't be
allowed to drive very long," Guttentag said.

Sen. Edward M. Kennedy, D-Mass. who heads the Senate subcommittee on
immigration, is expected to resist any wholesale revisions of immigration law.

As one staff aide noted last week, none of the proposals being discussed would
have kept out the individuals implicated in the World Trade Center bombing, or
the Egyptian cleric, or the Pakistani being sought in the shootings earlier this
year outside the CIA's headquarters.

"All these people entered legally, with valid documents," this staff aide said.
"They shouldn't perhaps have been given a visa. Perhaps we need greater
vigilance on the part of our consular officers overseas.

"But we shouldn't allow two or three incidents of terrorism, feeding on fear and
panic, to lead us into fundamental changes in longstanding American judicial
processes, without knowing the full ramifications first."

LOAD-DATE: September 29, 1993

LANGUAGE: English

TYPE: PROFILE IMMIGRATION

                  Copyright 1993 St. Louis Post-Dispatch, Inc.


                              251 of 308 DOCUMENTS

                       St. Louis Post-Dispatch (Missouri)

                   April 25, 1993, SUNDAY, FIVE STAR Edition

CULT AFFIDAVITS SHOW AGENCIES DIDN'T COOPERATE; INS MISSED 50 ALIENS' EXPIRED
VISAS

BYLINE: Daniel R. Browning Of the Post-Dispatch Staff

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 8A

LENGTH: 843 words

DATELINE: WACO, TEXAS


The government's investigation of David Koresh and the 51-day siege that led to
his death and the deaths of his cult followers raises as many questions as it
answers.  The facts reveal incompetence, poor judgment and a failure to
communicate among various agencies.  According to court records, agents of the
Bureau of Alcohol, Tobacco and Firearms began investigating Koresh last June 4,
when special agent Davy Aguilera of Austin, Texas, met with Lt. Gene Barber of
the McClennan County Sheriff's Department.  Barber said he had learned from a
UPS driver that Koresh was receiving weapons parts and materials that could be
used for explosives.  State law officers knew that Koresh had been stockpiling
weapons since at least 1987. That is when he and seven others were involved in a
long gunbattle at the 78-acre religious compound 13 miles northeast of Waco.
Even if ATF agents had failed to discover Koresh's weapons stockpile from the
court proceedings after the gunfight, other federal authorities had cause to
visit the compound as early as last May. That's when the visa expired for
Livingstone Fagan, a British tourist who was a top Koresh follower.  But the
Immigration and Naturalization Service failed to track down Fagan.  After the
raid on the compound on Feb. 28, the immigration service checked its records and
found that as many as 50 aliens were living there, and that most - if not all -
had overstayed their visas.  When the ATF finally did take notice of Koresh and
his followers, it learned what many of his friends and relatives already knew:
That he had an apocalyptic vision of himself and had begun talking as early as
1983 about becoming a martyr. That he had stockpiled more than 100 assault
rifles and had the tools and expertise to convert them to fully automatic
machine guns.  That he had stores of chemicals that can be used to make bombs
and inert grenades that can be made into live ones.  That he had enough
ammunition to supply a small army.  That guards patrolled his property with
orders to shoot intruders.  That he liked to show his followers a videotape that
portrayed the ATF in a negative light.  That he had sex with young girls and
claimed sexual rights to all of his female followers.  The ATF got information
through interviews with former cult members and weapons dealers, but it also had
an undercover agent in the cult.  Not until after the Feb. 28 raid did the ATF
learn that Koresh had suspected that the ATF was planning for more than a year
to come after him.  He even told an arms dealer that he had seen the ATF
practicing for an assault on his compound in late spring or early summer of
1992. The training took place right next to the compound a month before Aguilera
says the ATF began its investigation.  Actually, the training was being
conducted by local police departments, practicing the execution of warrants. But
Koresh believed it to be preparation for an assault on his compound.  The Waco
Tribune-Herald was investigating the cult right along with the ATF. In a series
that ran one day before the raid, the paper reported that Koresh might have
abused children of group members and claimed to have at least 15 wives. Koresh
denied that, saying he married his wife, Rachel, in 1984, when she was 14 and he
was 24.  The ATF went to court Feb. 25 for a search warrant, outlining in a
sworn statement the arms buildup it suspected was taking place at the compound.
The statement, or affidavit, made no mention of child abuse.  Sometime during
the ATF investigation, the undercover agent's identity was revealed, and Koresh
learned that the raid would take place Feb. 28. He was waiting for it with
weapons loaded.  Four ATF agents lost their lives, and 16 others were wounded.
At least five cultists were killed.  The ATF could have simply picked up Koresh
when he was out jogging - or on his trips to Waco taverns. But ATF officials
said they had gone through with the raid because they were concerned about the
potential for mass suicide within the complex - and the possibility that Koresh
was planning an assault on Waco.  The FBI took over the case on Feb. 28 and
began trying to talk Koresh and his followers out of the compound.  The standoff
lasted 51 days, during which the FBI gathered intelligence from eavesdropping
devices and satellites.  The FBI developed a plan to close in gradually on the
compound. It would send modified tanks to knock holes in the walls and pump tear
gas inside with compressed air. The FBI said the gas was not lethal and the
propellant could not cause a fire.  The FBI considered that mass suicide might
take place, but it judged that unlikely because of repeated assurances from
Koresh to authorities and his attorney that he was not planning a suicide.  Yet
court documents show that Koresh has been predicting since 1983 that he would be
martyred in a cataclysmic event.  The FBI started its assault on the compound at
daybreak Monday. Shortly after noon, the fire broke out, killing Koresh and 85
others. Just nine cult members escaped.

LOAD-DATE: October 7, 1993

LANGUAGE: English

TYPE: PROFILE David Koresh

                  Copyright 1993 St. Louis Post-Dispatch, Inc.


                              252 of 308 DOCUMENTS

                       St. Louis Post-Dispatch (Missouri)

                  April 28, 1993, WEDNESDAY, FIVE STAR Edition

ENGLISH LESS COMMON AT HOME

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 7A

LENGTH: 473 words

DATELINE: WASHINGTON


When they wake up in the morning and go home at night, Americans increasingly
are speaking in Spanish, Chinese, Korean or Vietnamese, but not English.  The
trend reflects the rise of immigration into the United States.  Immigrants from
Latin America, Asia and other regions are speaking in their native tongues at
home - most by choice, but some because they cannot speak English.  A new Census
Bureau report shows that 14 percent of U.S. residents spoke a language other
than English at home in 1990, up from 11 percent in 1980.  In Missouri, a total
of 3.8 percent of the state's residents age 5 and older speak a language other
than English at home. In Illinois, about 10 percent speak another language.  In
California, nearly 32 percent spoke a language other than English at home.
Spanish was spoken by more than half of the 31.8 million U.S. residents who
didn't routinely converse in English. The next most common languages were
French, German, Italian, Chinese and Tagalog, a language of the Philippines.
Whether America is experiencing anything different from previous waves of
immigration in the 1800s and 1900s is unclear. Before 1980, the Census Bureau
did not ask people what language they spoke at home, said bureau analyst
Rosalind Bruno.  Demographer Jeffrey Passel of the Urban Institute, a
nonpartisan research institute in Washington, said he sees no evidence that
recent immigrants from Latin America and Asia are any less inclined to learn and
use English than were earlier immigrants from Europe. "The majority of
immigrants entering the United States do seem to speak English, and with more
time and education in the United States, the others eventually learn it," said
Passel. "People who speak English earn more than people who don't. That
information is fairly well-known among immigrants." Indeed, according to the
census report, 79 percent of the people who spoke a language other than English
at home said they could speak English "very well" or "well." "I don't think
there's any community that thinks we don't need to learn English," said Sonia
Perez, a policy analyst with the National Council of La Raza, a Hispanic
organization. A 1992 poll, the Latino National Political Survey, found that more
than 90 percent of Hispanics agreed that U.S.  residents should learn English.
But Cessna Winslow, spokeswoman for the Washington-based advocacy group U.S.
English, questioned whether the government's use of multilingual election
ballots, welfare applications and other forms sends signals to immigrants that
it is not necessary to learn English. The group wants the federal government to
conduct its official business in English only.  "We can be from any country. We
can be of any color, but if we can't speak the same language, we can't
communicate," she said. "We need a common language."

LOAD-DATE: October 7, 1993

LANGUAGE: English

GRAPHIC: GRAPHIC; Graphic by AP - Non-English Languages Spoken In U.S. Homes -
graphic list percentage of homes where other languages are spoken. (source: 1990
census)

                  Copyright 1993 St. Louis Post-Dispatch, Inc.


                              253 of 308 DOCUMENTS

                       St. Louis Post-Dispatch (Missouri)

                   April 30, 1993, FRIDAY, FIVE STAR Edition

INS OFFICE HERE GETS DELUGE OF PHONE CALLS

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 9A

LENGTH: 217 words


Forty-seven thousand calls came in last month to the public telephone number of
the St. Louis office of the Immigration and Naturalization Service, said Chester
Moyer, the officer in charge. Only one staff member is designated to field calls
on its eight phone lines, but the office has a recorded message system to handle
most of them. Here are some tips for getting through when you call the number,
(314) 539-2532: Call from a touch-tone phone and have pencil and paper handy.
If you need a form and know the number, you may record your request on an
answering machine. Most calls are for forms, and most forms are sent within a
week, Moyer said.  If you have questions about passports, applying for
citizenship or green cards or other business, most of those, too, are answered
on a tape. Listen carefully for the information you want, and touch the proper
numbers on your phone.  If you must speak with a person, call weekdays between 8
and 10 a.m. or 2 and 4 p.m. You must first pick a subject and listen to at least
one recorded message. After the recording, a real person will answer.  Give up?
The local office is on the first floor of the Robert A. Young Federal Building,
Tucker Boulevard and Spruce Street downtown. It is open between 8 a.m. and 3:30
p.m. Just take a number.

LOAD-DATE: October 7, 1993

LANGUAGE: English

                  Copyright 1993 St. Louis Post-Dispatch, Inc.


                              254 of 308 DOCUMENTS

                       St. Louis Post-Dispatch (Missouri)

                    May 23, 1993, SUNDAY, FIVE STAR Edition

AMTRAK RESPONDS TO PASSENGERS, BANS SMOKING ON SHORTER ROUTES

SECTION: TRAVEL; Pg. 2T

LENGTH: 828 words

TRAVEL NOTES COLUMN


SMOKERS WILL HAVE to give up cigarettes while they're aboard Amtrak's shorter
routes, beginning this month. The railroad has banned smoking on all train
routes of 4 1/2 hours or less, including Metroliners. Until recently, smoking
was allowed in smoking cars and designated lounge areas.  The new policy comes
in response to comments and requests from passengers, according to an Amtrak
spokeswoman.  Amtrak also will experiment with a no-smoking policy in sleeping
cars aboard two longer routes: the Capitol Limited, which travels between
Washington and Chicago, and the Coast Starlight, which goes between Los Angeles
and Seattle.  To check on a particular train, call (800) 872-7245.  Questions
have been raised about whether the new U.S. passports are as tamperproof as they
are intended to be, but the State Department is standing behind them. Richard
Norton, an official of the Air Transport Association, questioned the new
passport's effectiveness in preventing the kind of tampering that would allow
people to enter the United States illegally.  Appearing recently before the
House Judiciary Subcommittee on International Law, Immigration and Refugees,
Norton said the airline industry supported efforts to improve immigration
inspection with technological innovations, but he called the new passport "a
flawed design." Inside the new passport there is a device called a kinegram,
which is similar to the holograms used on credit cards. After the hearing Norton
told the Travel Management Newsletter, a trade publication, that a skilled
person could peel back the laminated material and change the data underneath or
alter the kinegram. A spokeswoman for the State Department said later: "We stand
by our passport. We feel it is very secure." Changes under the laminate, she
said, would be easily detected.  An aide to the House panel said that both sides
of the dispute would be considered but that no changes were expected in the near
future. In the meantime, travelers obtaining or renewing passports can expect to
get the new version.  Princess Cruises pleaded guilty last month to dumping
garbage from a ship off the Florida Keys, and the line paid a fine of $500,000.
The cruise line admitted that 20 garbage bags were dropped from its Regal
Princess - a passenger's videotape caught the nighttime jettisoning during a
Caribbean cruise in October 1991.  The tourist, from Michigan, reported what
he'd seen to the Coast Guard when the ship returned to Port Everglades, Fla.,
and nine months later his videotape appeared on the TV show "I Witness Video."
The cruise line acknowledged the dumping, condemned it and said it had been
unable to determine which crew member was responsible. It also said it had
increased efforts to educate crews to avoid such incidents.  The dumping
violated the 1988 Act to Prevent Pollution from Ships.  Take a Hike: The Sierra
Club has designed a 10-day, 57-mile backpacking trip high into northeastern
Yosemite National Park, the largest roadless area in California. The group will
cover about seven miles each day, heading from Buckeye Trailhead to Lake Benson,
then to Lake Smedburg, then across Burro Pass to Crown Lakes and finishing at
Twin Lakes on the eastern flank of the Sierra mountains. The climb to Lake
Smedburg will be assisted by pack horses.  The cost is $405, including guides
and food but not personal camping gear.  For details, call (415) 923-5660.
Departure is Aug. 8; refer to trip No.  93188.  Travelers with health concerns
can have their medical histories printed in foreign languages (for doctors
abroad) for $25-$33, as part of a new service by Alpha Med-Rekords
International. Call 21 days in advance; (614) 851-9177.  Racial minorities are
rarely portrayed as hotel guests in advertisements for chain hotels, according
to Hotels, an industry publication. An analysis in a recent issue compared ads
in 12 weekly travel sections, four trade magazines and one consumer travel
magazine and found that most chains use white models.  There were two
exceptions: Stouffer Hotels and Resorts, and Holiday Inn.  Baseball trips: If
you want to follow your favorite baseball team on the road, Sports Tours Inc.
offers the Ultimate Baseball Road Trips.  The trips this year will visit 18
ballparks, including Oriole Park at Camden Yards in Baltimore, the SkyDome in
Toronto, Fenway Park in Boston, Comiskey Park and Wrigley Field in Chicago,
Busch Stadium and Yankee Stadium.  Packages, which start at $595 a person double
occupancy, include game tickets, luxury hotels where the teams stay, tour guide
and welcome reception at celebrity sports restaurants.  For information, call
(800) 722-7701.  Completion of the Channel Tunnel, which someday will allow
travel between London and Paris in three hours, has been delayed from June of
this year to April 1994, according to a letter to shareholders from the company
building it. Construction of the tunnel under the English Channel began in 1988.

LOAD-DATE: October 7, 1993

LANGUAGE: English

                  Copyright 1993 St. Louis Post-Dispatch, Inc.


                              255 of 308 DOCUMENTS

                       St. Louis Post-Dispatch (Missouri)

                   May 29, 1993, SATURDAY, FIVE STAR Edition

SENATE SENDS BILL ON AIDS TO CLINTON

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 8A

LENGTH: 211 words

DATELINE: WASHINGTON


A bill including a ban on immigrants infected with AIDS won Senate passage
Friday and was sent to President Bill Clinton. The president opposes the ban but
is expected to sign the bill. The legislation, which involves medical research
funding, was passed by the Senate on a voice vote.  The bill also includes a
provision that permanently lifts the government's former ban on fetal-tissue
research - a step Clinton took by executive order in January when he moved to
reverse 12 years of Republican anti-abortion policies.  Congress passed a
similar bill last year only to see it vetoed by President George Bush over the
fetal-tissue provision.  Clinton said during last year's campaign that he
opposed keeping immigrants out just because they are HIV-positive. But the White
House has indicated he will go along with the measure because Congress spoke
with such a loud voice on the issue.  White House officials also have said it
would be inappropriate for Clinton to hold up funding for women's health
research because of the ban.  The overall bill authorizes $6 billion for the
National Institutes of Health and directs that new research money be used for
breast and ovarian cancer, contraception and fertility, osteoporosis and other
medical issues.

LOAD-DATE: October 7, 1993

LANGUAGE: English

                  Copyright 1993 St. Louis Post-Dispatch, Inc.


                              256 of 308 DOCUMENTS

                       St. Louis Post-Dispatch (Missouri)

                    June 7, 1993, MONDAY, THREE STAR Edition

ALIENS' SHIP GROUNDED; 8 DIE; CHINESE SPENT 3 MONTHS AT SEA BEFORE HITTING
SANDBAR OFF N.Y.

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 1A

LENGTH: 583 words

DATELINE: NEW YORK


Hundreds of illegal Chinese immigrants - some wearing business suits, some in
their underwear - jumped into the Atlantic before dawn Sunday when a smuggling
ship ran aground on a New York City beach.  Six people drowned, two died after
being pulled from the water, and more than 20 others were treated for exposure
or exhaustion, officials said.  More than 200 people fled the ship, and about
100 others were taken ashore from the freighter. Officials were looking for
about 25 people believed to be at large.  "It looked almost like the movie about
the invasion of Normandy," said police Detective Ming Li, who arrived shortly
after the 150-foot freighter Golden Venture ran aground at 2 a.m. off Rockaway
Beach in Queens.  Some of those on board swam and waded to shore clutching
plastic bags of belongings. Others rode the surf in, using plastic jugs as
makeshift floats.  Many had to be fished out of the 53-degree water.  Most of
the immigrants were young men; about 20 were women.  The freighter hit a sandbar
about 200 yards off a seaside park, near a Coast Guard station. Police were
investigating whether the ship beached itself intentionally to offload its human
cargo.  The rescue effort pitted Fire Department and Coast Guard teams in small
boats against high surf and swift currents. A Coast Guard skiff capsized, but
all three crew members escaped injury.  Most aboard the grounded freighter were
from China's Fujian province and had been at sea about 100 days, said William
Slattery, director of the Immigration and Naturalization Service in New York. He
said all the passengers would be detained until they were prosecuted, even if it
took months. "We are making arrrangements to hold them as long as we have to,"
Slattery said at the beach site.  He admitted said the immigration process was
so overburdened that it can take years before a case is resolved. "By then, the
illegals are long since gone. We intend to make an example of this group.' A
27-year-old from the city of Fuzhou in Fujian province said he and the others
panicked when the ship ran aground. "We completely didn't know what was
happening," said the man, who declined to give his name. "I felt like I died a
little inside." He jumped from the ship and said it felt like "there was no one
to save us." But a rescuer helped him ashore.  The Chinese man said the boat had
been at sea for more than three months, but he didn't know where it had been.
"Some days there was food; some days there wasn't. It was very hard to get water
to drink." The would-be immigrants came to the United States for work.
Immigration officials report a rising tide of China immigrants attempting to
sneak into the United States. New York City Police Commissioner Raymond Kelly
said investigators suspect Asian gangs in the city may have funded the ship's
voyage. He said 13 crew members - all Indonesian - would be prosecuted on
smuggling charges. The ship will be confiscated.  The ship's master was
identified as Amir Humanthal Lumban Tubing, 44, who has an Indonesian passport.
Detective Li, who spoke to some passengers, said they were "all heavily
pre-rehearsed. They know to ask for political asylum." Many asked for such
asylum on the ground that China was limiting their families to one child each.
The detective said some told him they had paid the equivalent of $3,000 in down
payments, along with agreeing to be indentured.   Refugees told police the ship
made several stops in China to pick up passengers.

LOAD-DATE: October 7, 1993

LANGUAGE: English

GRAPHIC: PHOTO; (1) Color Photo By AP - Rescuers pulling ashore a Chinese
would-be immigrant Sunday in high surf off New York City's Rockaway Beach. (2)
Color Photo By AP - Illegal Chinese immigrants climbing down Sunday from the
freighter Golden Venture to skiffs manned by New York police and U.S.  Coast
Guardsmen. The ship grounded off Rockaway.

                  Copyright 1993 St. Louis Post-Dispatch, Inc.


                              257 of 308 DOCUMENTS

                       St. Louis Post-Dispatch (Missouri)

                    June 7, 1993, MONDAY, FIVE STAR Edition

ILLEGAL ALIENS FLEE FREIGHTER; 8 CHINESE DIE WHEN SMUGGLING SHIP HITS SANDBAR
OFF N.Y.

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 1A

LENGTH: 578 words

DATELINE: NEW YORK


Hundreds of illegal Chinese immigrants - some wearing business suits, some in
their underwear - jumped into the Atlantic before dawn Sunday when a smuggling
ship ran aground on a New York City beach.  Six people drowned, two died after
being pulled from the water, and more than 20 others were treated for exposure
or exhaustion, officials said.  More than 200 people fled the ship, and about
100 others were taken ashore from the freighter. Officials were looking for
about 25 people believed to be at large.  "It looked almost like the movie about
the invasion of Normandy," said police Detective Ming Li, who arrived shortly
after the 150-foot freighter Golden Venture ran aground at 2 a.m. off Rockaway
Beach in Queens.  Some of those on board swam and waded to shore clutching
plastic bags of belongings. Others rode the surf in, using plastic jugs as
makeshift floats.  Many had to be fished out of the 53-degree water.  Most of
the immigrants were young men; about 20 were women.  The freighter hit a sandbar
about 200 yards off a seaside park, near a Coast Guard station. Police were
investigating whether the ship beached itself intentionally to unload its human
cargo.  The rescue effort pitted Fire Department and Coast Guard teams in small
boats against high surf and swift currents. A Coast Guard skiff capsized, but
all three crew members escaped injury.  Most aboard the grounded freighter were
from China's province of Fujian and had been at sea about 100 days, said William
Slattery, director of the Immigration and Naturalization Service in New York. He
said all the passengers would be detained until they were prosecuted, even if it
took months. "We are making arrangements to hold them as long as we have to,"
Slattery said.  A 27-year-old from the city of Fuzhou in the province of Fujian
said he and the others panicked when the ship ran aground. "We completely didn't
know what was happening," said the man, who declined to give his name. "I felt
like I died a little inside." The Chinese man said the boat had been at sea for
more than three months, but he did not know where it had been. "Some days there
was food; some days there wasn't. It was very hard to get water to drink." The
would-be immigrants came to the United States for work.  Immigration officials
report a rising tide of Chinese immigrants trying to sneak into the United
States. New York City Police Commissioner Raymond Kelly said investigators
suspect Asian gangs in the city may have funded the ship's voyage. He said 13
crew members - all Indonesian - would be prosecuted on smuggling charges. The
ship will be confiscated.  The ship's master was identified as Amir Humanthal
Lumban Tubing, 44, who has an Indonesian passport.  Detective Li, who spoke to
some passengers, said they were "all heavily pre-rehearsed. They know to ask for
political asylum." Many asked for asylum on the ground that China was limiting
their families to one child each.  Coast Guard Capt. Rick Larrabee said the ship
had been under surveillance as it neared the coast, but it disappeared as Coast
Guard vessels were being dispatched late Saturday to intercept it. Its
whereabouts were not known until it ran aground.  Dennis Uhlenhopp, a Coast
Guard spokesman, said late Sunday that the freighter had been safely pulled off
the beach and re-floated. He said the Coast Guard had ordered the vessel towed
to a terminal in Bayonne, N.J., where it would be turned over to the INS.

LOAD-DATE: October 7, 1993

LANGUAGE: English

GRAPHIC: PHOTO; (1) Color Photo By AP - Rescuers pulling ashore a Chinese
would-be immigrant Sunday in high surf off New York City's Rockaway Beach. (2)
Color Photo By AP - Illegal Chinese immigrants climbing down Sunday from the
freighter Golden Venture to skiffs manned by New York police and U.S.  Coast
Guardsmen. The ship grounded off Rockaway.

                  Copyright 1993 St. Louis Post-Dispatch, Inc.


                              258 of 308 DOCUMENTS

                       St. Louis Post-Dispatch (Missouri)

                    June 11, 1993, FRIDAY, FIVE STAR Edition

CLINTON OKS FETAL TISSUE; BREAKS VOW TO ALLOW IMMIGRANTS WITH HIV

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 1A

LENGTH: 559 words

DATELINE: WASHINGTON


President Bill Clinton signed into law on Thursday a medical research bill that
allows research on fetal tissue and bans AIDS-infected immigrants, in keeping
with one campaign promise and at odds with another.  The legislation authorizing
$6 billion for the National Institutes of Health also directs new research money
for breast and ovarian cancer, contraception and fertility, osteoporosis and
other medical issues.  As a presidential candidate, Clinton had campaigned in
favor of allowing federally financed research involving fetal tissue and had
opposed President George Bush's ban on the immigration of people with AIDS.  One
of Clinton's first acts as president was to issue an executive order lifting the
ban of fetal-tissue research, an action codified by the signing Thursday of the
bill.  But when Congress moved this year to continue the ban on HIV-positive
immigrants, Clinton accepted defeat without putting up much of a fight.  "That's
the will of the Congress, that's part of the law," he said Thursday when asked
about the ban. "I don't think that in any way it undermines the overall
importance of this law." The AIDS virus is one of a handful of infections the
government has decided should be grounds for excluding foreigners from entering
the country.  A federal judge ordered the administration this week to release
158 HIV-infected Haitians being held at the U.S. naval base in Guantanamo Bay,
Cuba.  The White House said the ban against AIDS-infected immigrants would not
change the status of those Haitians, who have been held at the camp for the past
two years. The administration said Wednesday that it would not appeal the order,
meaning the Haitians will be allowed to enter the United States.  Clinton said
the nation needed to "deal with AIDS better for all of our people and for those
who are here in our borders who are not citizens.  We've got all we can do to do
that." He said, "I think we can benefit people all around the world if we can
make progress in dealing with AIDS." Clinton said the legislation was "on
balance a dramatic step forward." "I can't tell you how many people I met all
over this country in 1992 from both political parties who came to my campaign
and supported me simply because I wanted to put a scientific basis back in our
decisions on fetal tissue," Clinton said after the bill signing.  Similar
legislation passed the Congress last year but was vetoed by Bush because of the
fetal-tissue research, which is opposed by anti-abortion forces.  Attending the
bill signing ceremony in the Roosevelt Room were representatives of various
women's and health-advocacy groups, including groups pushing for fetal-tissue
research related to diabetes and Alzheimer's disease.  Also on hand were members
of Congress who had backed the bill, including Rep. Patricia Schroeder, D-Colo.,
who said it "feels so good to see it here" after watching the legislation get
vetoed in past years.  Haitians To Arrive Monday Under orders from a U.S.
district judge, the Pentagon announced Thursday that it planned to begin flying
Haitian refugees infected with the AIDS virus from Cuba to the United States on
Monday.  Bob Hall, a Defense Department spokesman, said he did not know where
the flights of 30 to 40 refugees each would land, although the Haitians are
expected to be flown to southern Florida.

LOAD-DATE: October 7, 1993

LANGUAGE: English

                  Copyright 1993 St. Louis Post-Dispatch, Inc.


                              259 of 308 DOCUMENTS

                       St. Louis Post-Dispatch (Missouri)

                  June 12, 1993, SATURDAY, THREE STAR Edition

CLINTON SIGNS BILL ALLOWING RESEARCH WITH FETAL TISSUE

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 4B

LENGTH: 229 words

DATELINE: WASHINGTON


President Bill Clinton has signed into law a bill that allows research on fetal
tissue and bans AIDS-infected immigrants.  The legislation authorizing $6
billion for the National Institutes of Health also directs new research money to
breast and ovarian cancer, contraception and fertility, osteoporosis and other
medical issues. One of Clinton's first acts as president was to issue an
executive order lifting the ban on fetal-tissue research, an action codified by
the signing Thursday of the bill.  But when Congress moved this year to continue
the ban on HIV-positive immigrants, Clinton accepted defeat without putting up
much of a fight.  "That's the will of the Congress; that's part of the law," he
said Thursday, when asked about the ban. "I don't think that in any way it
undermines the overall importance of this law." The AIDS virus is one of a
handful of infections the government has decided should be grounds for excluding
foreigners from entering the country.  Under orders from a U.S. district judge,
the Pentagon announced Thursday that it planned to begin flying Haitian refugees
infected with the AIDS virus from Cuba to the United States on Monday.  Bob
Hall, a Defense Department spokesman, said that he did not know where the
flights of 30 to 40 refugees each would land, although the Haitians are expected
to be flown to southern Florida.

LOAD-DATE: October 7, 1993

LANGUAGE: English

                  Copyright 1993 St. Louis Post-Dispatch, Inc.


                              260 of 308 DOCUMENTS

                       St. Louis Post-Dispatch (Missouri)

                    June 14, 1993, MONDAY, FIVE STAR Edition

ETHNIC STORES THRIVE IN SOUTH GRAND AREA

BYLINE: William Flannery Of The Post-Dispatch

SECTION: BUSINESS PLUS; Pg. 12

LENGTH: 1144 words


From Arsenal Street on the north to just past Gravois Avenue on the south, the
South Grand Boulevard area is blooming with a new crop of small retailers,
restaurants and food stores.  And most of the 30-plus new businesses are owned
and operated by Asian-American immigrants, mainly from Vietnam. Others are owned
by Thais, Filipinos and Arabs.  Myle Kennedy owns Myle Jewelry Store at 3212
South Grand. Daughter of a former South Vietnamese Army colonel, Kennedy, who
uses her married name, is typical of many of the small shop owners.  "I opened
here on October 4th in 1990, because of the concentration of Oriental customers.
. . . About 95 percent of my customers are Asian," Kennedy said. "But my
customers come from all over" metro St. Louis.  The concentration of Vietnamese
and other Asian immigrants on South Grand and in the Tower Grove neighborhood
was not planned, said Anna Crosslin.  But given the natural power of
demographics, it fits.  Crosslin is the director of the International Institute
of St. Louis at 3800 Park Avenue, in the Tower Grove neighborhood. (Her husband,
Post-Dispatch photographer Wayne Crosslin, took the photographs for this story.)
The center helps new immigrants and handles most of the Vietnamese resettlement
in St. Louis. Many Vietnamese settled in Tower Grove to be near the institute.
"Over the last decade we have averaged 300 to 400 new people a year, some of
those have relocated to other states," Crosslin said.  Currently there are some
3,500 Indochinese refugees in St. Louis. About 2,500 are Vietnamese (including
ethnic Chinese from Vietnam), 450 Laotians and a smaller number of Cambodians.
In general, Crosslin said, the Vietnamese and Vietnamese-Chinese are settling
along South Grand, while the Chinese from the mainland, Taiwan and Hong Kong are
settling and opening shops on Olive Boulevard in St. Louis County.  Crosslin
said the growth of Asian businesses has extended off Grand onto Cherokee Street
and toward Jefferson Avenue.  "What's interesting is the area (on Cherokee) is
kind of business being done by the Lao, as opposed by the Vietnamese," Crosslin
said.  While the International Institute offers counseling and language courses,
Crosslin said the institute offers no business help.  "They have largely found
that themselves," Crosslin said.  Like earlier generations of immigrants, the
minority merchants on South Grand have started with limited capital and lots of
family support - and they work extremely long hours.  Kennedy's jewelry store is
open from 10 a.m. to 7 p.m., seven days a week.  Just down the street at the Mid
Eastern Market at 3201 South Grand, owner Akram N. Ali-Hassan and his two
nephews run the store from 8 a.m. to 8 p.m., seven days a week.  "You got to do
it for your customers," Ali-Hassan said. A Palestinian, Ali-Hassan was born in
the West Bank town of Ramallah.  The other retail stores keep similar hours,
with the restaurants being open during lunch and the evenings.  "When they start
up, they avoid going to a bank; the paperwork is too much for them," Crosslin
said. "They depend on savings and friends and relatives to back them." Once
established, Crosslin said, the minority merchants will go to local banks.
Among the examples of family cooperative efforts is the Mekong Restaurant at
3131 South Grand. Kim Tran is a research chemical engineer, her husband also is
an engineer.  "We opened the Mekong almost two years ago now," Tran said. A
brother, Tai Tran, and his family operate the Vietnamese cuisine restaurant.
One of the newest Vietnamese stores is Trang Fashions, a dress shop at 3475
South Grand.  "We opened two weeks before Thanksgiving," said owner Shirley
Trang, who has lived in St. Louis since 1980. Her husband works for Pella
Windows Inc.  Before opening her shop, Trang took care of her three young
children and did sewing and alterations out of her home. The start-up money was
family savings, Trang said. "We worked hard, hard, hard." As with all successful
retail areas, there is a symbiotic relationship among the different stores.
That many of the Asian immigrants have focused on opening restaurants is not
surprising, Crosslin said.  "They get the overflow from each other - the same
with the jewelry stores," she said.  Jay International Food Inc. has acted as a
sort of anchor store for Asian development in the area. Jay, a large
supermarket, specializes in Asian, Hispanic, African and Mideastern foods.
"Jay's very size has done what a major department store does for a shopping
center," Crosslin said.  Years ago, she said, Jay got a contact from the
Institute to provide rice and other food for the incoming refugees.  After the
immigrants started shopping there, Crosslin said, "Then it became very trendy;
people from West County started shopping there." South Grand's regional customer
draw is one of the reason Ali-Hassan purchased the Mid Eastern Market three
years ago.  "Why this area? Because the kind of businesses on this street draws
people from all around - almost all around the world," Ali-Hassan said. "We
cater to Arabs, Greeks, Persians, Indo-Pakistanis, Bangladeshis, Afghans,
Russians, Bulgarians, Jews - we (sell) to a lot of different nationalities."
Though his Mid Eastern Market is a much smaller store than Jay International,
Ali-Hassan has developed a classic market niche.  "I like being around Jay,"
Ali-Hassan said with a wide grin.  While Jay sells fresh and frozen seafood, the
Mid Eastern Market specializes in meat - lamb, chicken and beef.  "We specialize
in halal meat - blessed and sacred meat," Ali-Hassan said.  "We also do a lot of
catering. We stuff whole lambs - with rice, meat and pine nuts." Halal is the
Islamic version of Jewish kosher, Ali-Hassan said. The animal must be killed and
butchered according to Islamic law. The process involves a Muslim male doing the
work and giving a blessing.  Minority merchants on South Grand generally praise
the city's efforts to improve services and police protection in the area.  "This
is a business-oriented neighborhood now," Ali-Hassan said. "I remember back in
'85, '86, when there was hardly a business open around here except for an auto
parts store." Crosslin takes issue, ". . . with those who say the area has
become too Asian." "People overlook the fact that Street Side Records is down
there; that the St. Louis Bread Co. is down there; they don't realize that the
largest Schnucks in the city of St. Louis is down there," Crosslin said. "These
are businesses that cater to the neighborhood that never would have gone in
there unless the Asians had been the business pioneers." Ali-Hassan agrees.
"This is a neighborhood that is a mix of businesses that form almost a complete
circle," Ali said. "We go from restaurants to food stores to jewelry shops to
Chinese beauticians. It's a nice neighborhood."

LOAD-DATE: October 7, 1993

LANGUAGE: English

GRAPHIC: PHOTO; (1) Color Photo by Wayne Crosslin/Post-Dispatch - Owner Akram N.
Ali-Hassan cuts meat in his Mid Eastern Market at 3201 South Grand Boulevard. At
rear is Ali-Hassan's assistant, Fadhin Masser. (2) Color Photo by Wayne
Crosslin/Post-Dispatch - Some members of the Tran family who run the Mekong
Restaurant at 3131 South Grand are Tai Tran, right, and daughters Lien Tran,
left, and Bay Tran, and son Tu Tran. (3) Color Photo by Wayne
Crosslin/Post-Dispatch - Above: Owners Shirley Trang and her husband, David
Trang at Trang Fashions, 3475 South Grand. (4) Color Photo by Wayne
Crosslin/Post-Dispatch - LEFT: The Trangs' store as seen from the street.

TYPE: PROFILE Minority Business

                  Copyright 1993 St. Louis Post-Dispatch, Inc.


                              261 of 308 DOCUMENTS

                       St. Louis Post-Dispatch (Missouri)

                   June 15, 1993, TUESDAY, FIVE STAR Edition

U.S. STARTS MOVING HAITIANS FROM CUBA

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 12A

LENGTH: 362 words

DATELINE: GUANTANAMO BAY NAVAL BASE, CUBA


The dusty, razor-wire-encircled compound that held HIV-infected Haitians in
limbo for nearly two years began shutting down Monday.  Twenty-one adults and
six children boarded a military plane and left for the United States at sunrise.
The group landed at Miami International Airport and were quickly whisked away by
U.S. immigration authorities.  Eight more flights over the next 10 days will
take the 113 people remaining at the camp to the United States.  A New York
federal judge ruled last Tuesday that the camp should be closed and the
Haitians, who fled their homeland after President Jean-Bertrand Aristide was
overthrown in a 1991 military coup, allowed into the United States.  Judge
Sterling Johnson Jr. described the compound as "nothing more than an HIV prison
camp." One of the detainees, Bob Burtus, said he was surprised to learn three
days ago that he would be leaving the compound after 20 months and seven days.
"That ain't no camp. That's a jail," Burtus said. He plans to join his wife and
infant son in New York and get a job. "I'm looking for a better life.  That's
why I left Haiti," he said. "I couldn't live my life." Despite their appeals for
political asylum, the refugees had been held because the United States does not
accept immigrants infected with the virus that causes AIDS.  Once in the United
States, the Haitian refugees still must complete the asylum process, which could
take months and result in deportation for some. Most will stay with relatives in
Florida or New York. They will be eligible to work and take advantage of some
public assistance programs if necessary.  More than 40,000 Haitians were
intercepted at sea after Aristide, Haiti's first democratically elected
president, was forced out in September 1991.  The Guantanamo camp was opened the
following month. It held up to 12,500 refugees.  Action By Parliament The
Haitian Parliament moved Monday toward recognizing Aristide's legitimacy and
letting him pick a new prime minister.  But lawmakers seemed certain to attach
conditions that Aristide long has rejected - including an across-the-board
amnesty for the army that toppled him in a bloody coup.

LOAD-DATE: October 7, 1993

LANGUAGE: English

                  Copyright 1993 St. Louis Post-Dispatch, Inc.


                              262 of 308 DOCUMENTS

                       St. Louis Post-Dispatch (Missouri)

                    July 2, 1993, FRIDAY, FIVE STAR Edition

U.S. TO TAKE RADICAL SHEIK INTO CUSTODY, SOURCES SAY

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 8A

LENGTH: 268 words

DATELINE: WASHINGTON


The Justice Department has decided to take into custody the radical Islamic
cleric whose followers have been charged in a terrorist conspiracy and the World
Trade Center bombing, sources said Thursday.  The sources said the department
had decided to take the action by revoking the immigration parole status of the
cleric, Sheik Omar Abdel-Rahman. Calls for Abdel-Rahman's arrest have
intensified since an alleged bombing and assassination conspiracy was broken up
a week ago.  Although the sheik is appealing a deportation order rendered in
March, Immigration and Naturalization Service officials have said the sheik
could be detained at any time for posing a threat to society.  Nine people have
been arrested in the bombing and assassination plot, and the sheik has
acknowledged that the man the FBI says was the group's ringleader acted as his
interpreter as recently as late last month. The sheik's name also frequently
cropped up in the investigation into the Feb. 26 World Trade Center bombing. Two
of those charged in that bombing - which killed six people and caused $1 billion
in damage - have been associated with the sheik while others worshiped at
Al-Salam Mosque in Jersey City, where the sheik sometimes preaches.  In New York
Thursday, thousands of rush-hour commuters were delayed when the
Brooklyn-Battery Tunnel was closed after a suspicious package was discovered in
the Manhattan-bound tube.  Police bomb squad investigators found a cylindrical
object 8 inches in diameter and 2 feet long in a bag wrapped in tape. It was not
immediately known whether the object was a bomb.

LOAD-DATE: October 11, 1993

LANGUAGE: English

                  Copyright 1993 St. Louis Post-Dispatch, Inc.


                              263 of 308 DOCUMENTS

                       St. Louis Post-Dispatch (Missouri)

                    July 30, 1993, FRIDAY, FIVE STAR Edition

IMMIGRATION ISSUE NEEDS BETTER DEBATE

BYLINE: George Will Copyright Washignton Post Writers Group

SECTION: EDITORIAL; Pg. 7B

LENGTH: 469 words

GEORGE WILL COLUMN

DATELINE: LOS ANGELES


Nativism, meaning irrational and mean-spirited hostility toward immigrants, is
as old as the Republic. But xenophobia - the desire to slam shut the golden door
- don't explain all or even most of today's opposition to current immigration
policies, particularly here.  In the 1980s about 9 million people immigrated to
the United States legally, another 2 million illegally. Today one-third of all
immigrants come to California, where the population, now 31.5 million, rose by
570,000 last year and is expected to rise another 600,000 this year. Most of the
growth is from immigration from Mexico, Central America and Asia, or from births
to recent immigrants.  Concern about immigration is approaching monomania here,
where the recession approaches a depression. But immigration is discussed too
much as an economic issue. The more important issue is cultural. The economic
argument concerns immigration's costs. Is immigration economically injurious?
Resolution of this argument requires complex calculations. Many immigrants cost
more in welfare and other services than they pay in taxes. (All immigrants pay
sales taxes; many pay income taxes.) However, their economic activity makes them
net contributors to national wealth. But that doesn't settle the argument about
the proper policy concerning immigration.  The cultural argument is more
important. Immigration today occurs in a social context different from that of
100 years ago. Today immigrants are received into a welfare culture encouraging
an entitlement mentality, which weakens individual striving for upward mobility.
A generous welfare state can be a "magnet" for migrants. The second difference
in context is the weakening of the ideal of assimilation. But it is unclear the
extent to which immigrants are hostile to or ambivalent about it.  The
anti-assimilationist impulse emanates from those native-born who believe America
is a sick, exploitative society into which no self-respecting person would wish
to assimilate. Further, some say diversity is an inherent good, and individual
authenticity requires adherence to ethnic identity.  And ethnicity should be the
basis of a society built on group rights and entitlements.  Such intellectual
fruit can poison the debate about immigration. It should begin with the premise
that America is not just an economy, but a culture. The high rate of immigration
since 1960 and the high fertility rate of immigrants are producing rapid change
in our ethnic and cultural balance.  Peter Brimelow, a contributing editor of
National Review, says, "The onus should not be on the critics of current policy
to explain their motives.  Supporters of current policy must explain why they
wish to transform America as it had evolved by 1965." True. Accusations of
"nativism" are not explanations.

LOAD-DATE: October 11, 1993

LANGUAGE: English

                  Copyright 1993 St. Louis Post-Dispatch, Inc.


                              264 of 308 DOCUMENTS

                       St. Louis Post-Dispatch (Missouri)

                  August 17, 1993, TUESDAY, FIVE STAR Edition

27 FROM MEXICO FOUND IN VAN; U.S. TELLS POLICE: RELEASE THEM

SECTION: ST. CHARLES; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 237 words


Warrenton police opened the back of a Ryder rented van on the parking lot of the
Wal-Mart store Monday morning and found 27 people from Mexico huddled inside,
said Warren County Sheriff Michael Baker.  Baker said the driver spoke only a
little English and that none of the authorities involved could speak Spanish.
Baker learned that the driver was headed for Pennsylvania. The people apparently
were in the United States illegally.  They included men, women and children as
young as 9, Baker said. Heat in the back of the van was intense, and Baker said
the passengers had been using the floor as a bathroom.  Baker said that a call
to the U.S. Immigration and Naturalization Service had been unsuccessful.
Chester Moyer, section chief for the department in St.  Louis, has said the
section is so short of staff that it cannot take large numbers of apparently
illegal immigrants into custody. Baker said his direction from the federal
agency had been to let the people go.  Baker said the van had been rented in
Arizona and was to be driven only from one small Arizona town to another. A
company representative came and took the vehicle.  The people are being housed
temporarily in the Lion's Club building on the county fairgrounds. Baker said
his concern was to ensure they received food, water and medical help. On Monday
afternoon, Baker applied for help and advice at the Mexican Consulate in St.
Louis.

LOAD-DATE: October 11, 1993

LANGUAGE: English

                  Copyright 1993 St. Louis Post-Dispatch, Inc.


                              265 of 308 DOCUMENTS

                       St. Louis Post-Dispatch (Missouri)

                  August 19, 1993, THURSDAY, FIVE STAR Edition

SHEIK WANTS TO GO TO AFGHANISTAN

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 7A

LENGTH: 195 words

DATELINE: NEW YORK


Sheik Omar Abdel-Rahman, the radical Egyptian cleric who has been fighting
deportation, may be willing to leave the United States voluntarily - if he can
go to Afghanistan, his lawyer said Wednesday.  Abdel-Rahman, 55, has ties to
many of those charged in the bombing Feb. 26 of the World Trade Center and to a
plot to blow up the United Nations and other New York landmarks. In Islamabad,
Prime Minister Gulbuddin Hekmatyar said Wednesday that Afghanistan would welcome
Abdel-Rahman.  The cleric has been fighting a deportation order and suffered a
setback Monday when a U.S. district judge denied Abdel-Rahman's appeal against
the action by the Immigration and Naturalization Service.  On Wednesday, the
cleric's lawyer, Barbara Nelson, said  she had approached federal authorities
about allowing the cleric to go to Afghanistan.  Immigration authorities say
deportees are usually sent to the country from which they entered the United
States.  Abdel-Rahman came from Sudan in 1990. But because he is an Egyptian
citizen, authorities say he might be sent there, where he faces almost certain
imprisonment for advocating the overthrow of the government.

LOAD-DATE: October 11, 1993

LANGUAGE: English

                  Copyright 1993 St. Louis Post-Dispatch, Inc.


                              266 of 308 DOCUMENTS

                       St. Louis Post-Dispatch (Missouri)

                 September 13, 1993, MONDAY, FIVE STAR Edition

POLITICS AND ART

SECTION: EDITORIAL; Pg. 6B

LENGTH: 384 words


The last thing the National Endowment for the Arts needs is more controversy.
Yet that is what it got recently with the revelation that three artists who had
received a grant from the endowment were giving the money away. The artists said
the $10 bills they handed out to illegal immigrants near the Mexican border were
the artistic materials of their project, much like the paint an artist applies
to a canvas or the clay a sculptor molds.  The NEA didn't fall for that
reasoning, and it withdrew its support.  Though funding for the arts project
came from several public and private sources, only the federal arts agency was
criticized for its part. That led the artists to accuse the NEA of succumbing to
political pressure. If the NEA acted for political reasons, the same charge
could just as fairly be leveled at the three artists and their project. They
said the handouts were intended to demonstrate that immigrants contribute to the
economy through their labor and their sales taxes, contrary to California Gov.
Pete Wilson's contention that they are a burden on the economy. In the context
of Gov. Wilson's anti-immigrant initiatives, the project seems to be making more
of a political statement than an artistic one. In any case, giving away crisp
$10 bills is difficult to defend as artistic expression.  The last time the NEA
yanked a grant, in 1990, it was sued and it lost.  Four performance artists who
addressed homosexual and feminist themes in graphic ways lost grants totaling
$26,000 at a time the NEA was under attack for allegedly subsidizing obscenity.
In withdrawing the grants, the NEA chairman relied on a vaguely worded decency
requirement that a federal court struck down. Subsequently, the agency paid
$252,000 to settle the suit.  Considering all the worthwhile assistance the NEA
provides, it is a shame the agency is pilloried for the few controversial
projects it supports. Art often evokes strong reactions, and that which sets the
censors on the prowl today often enjoys wide acceptance tomorrow. Nevertheless,
when the art patron is the American taxpayer, it behooves the dispensing agency
to be sensitive. That is not to say that the NEA should fund only aspiring
Norman Rockwells; but it should bear in mind that tax support necessarily
imposes limits.

LOAD-DATE: October 11, 1993

LANGUAGE: English

TYPE: EDITORIAL

                  Copyright 1993 St. Louis Post-Dispatch, Inc.


                              267 of 308 DOCUMENTS

                       St. Louis Post-Dispatch (Missouri)

                  October 5, 1993, TUESDAY, FIVE STAR Edition

RUSSIANS GIVE YELTSIN CHANCE; AREA IMMIGRANTS SAY OPPORTUNITY COULD BE LAST ONE
FOR PRESIDENT

BYLINE: Fred W. Lindecke Missouri Political Correspondent

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 6A

LENGTH: 974 words


Most Russians have stayed away from the fighting in Moscow and are waiting to
see if President Boris Yeltsin can improve living conditions in Russia if he is
in total control, Russian immigrants here said Monday.

Alexandr Vereshchinskiy, a physician who formerly worked in a hospital in
Moscow, said Yeltsin's use of the army against his opponents "is a very black
mark against him." Yeltsin should have continued to negotiate with his
opponents, Vereshchinskiy said.

But he said the Russian people "are still ready to give Yeltsin a chance but
maybe the last chance."

Vereshchinskiy, 35, has been in St. Louis for about three weeks with his wife
and two children. He is studying English at the International Institute, 3800
Park Avenue, and hopes to practice medicine in the United States.

Vereshchinskiy said he understood why Yeltsin moved against the communists who
controlled the Russian parliament and barricaded themselves in the parliament
building after Yeltsin dissolved that body Sept. 21.

"This summer, Yeltsin realized he had to do something. He did nothing for two
years. He couldn't accomplish anything with parliament. But to kill people is
not right. This is the first time the president used the army. The second time
it will be easier."

Vereshchinskiy added that if Yeltsin holds new elections for parliament and for
president, "Yeltsin may win, but I don't think so. Somebody else could win but
not the communists." He said only older Russians who are nostalgic for the old
communist stability would vote against Yeltsin or some other democratic leader.

In other parts of Russia, Yeltsin does not have the support he has in Moscow,
Vereshchinskiy said. "Far away from Moscow, there are problems with the troops,
which don't have the basic needs of housing and food, and especially in Siberia,
local governments don't support Yeltsin because of economic conditions," he
said.

If Yeltsin holds elections soon, his chances of winning are better than if he
waits, giving time for an alternative leader to come forward, Vereshchinskiy
contended.

Anna Amirdzhanyan, 20, a beautician, said she called her cousin, Oksana
Sarkisiyn, 26, a stewardess, in Moscow on Monday. Amirdzhanyan said her cousin
told her, "It's real scary. Lots of people are not going to work or school.  But
most people are behind Yeltsin."

Amirdzhanyan and her parents and older brother have been here for 15 months. She
also is studying English at the International Institute and wants to attend
college. The family lived in Moscow for five years after moving from Baku in
Azerbaijan, some 1,300 miles southeast of Moscow.

Most Russians are concerned about high inflation, food shortages and crime,
Amirdzhanyan said. "They are just trying to stay clear of the fighting and hope
that maybe somebody will be able to do something that will be better for them,"
she said. She, too, believed that Yeltsin should not have used the army, "but if
it's going to work out later, maybe it's better he did it.  Maybe he can change
something if he's in total control."

Mikhail Palatnik, a lecturer in Russian at Washington University, said he was
concerned that an "alternative government" might be formed in one of the Russian
provinces, "which would be a scenario for civil war."

Yeltsin had no choice "but at some time to use military force" against his
opponents, Palatnik said. But there should be elections, first for parliament
and later for president. "Many are accusing Yeltsin of being a dictator,"
Palatnik said.

LOAD-DATE: October 6, 1993

LANGUAGE: English

GRAPHIC: PHOTO; Photo by Ted Dargan/Post-Dispatch - Alexandr Vereshchinskiy, a
Russian immigrant, says President Boris Yeltsin should not have used force
against the rebel politicians.

                  Copyright 1993 St. Louis Post-Dispatch, Inc.


                              268 of 308 DOCUMENTS

                       St. Louis Post-Dispatch (Missouri)

              November 25, 1993, THURSDAY, FIVE STAR LIFT Edition

AT INTERNATIONAL INSTITUTE, TURKEY'S A BIRD, NOT A PLACE

BYLINE: Victor Volland Of the Post-Dispatch Staff

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 4C

LENGTH: 1014 words


Most of the 300 new immigrants and refugees who gathered Wednesday at the
International Institute for its 11th annual Thanksgiving feast got their first
taste of turkey and other strange American foods such as cranberries and pumpkin
pie.

But for some, like Jesenka Mulaosmanovic from Bosnia and Jusuf Haid from
Somalia, the American bird was nothing new.

"We do not have anything like Thanksgiving in Bosnia, but we have had turkey for
a long time," said Mulaosmanovic, a Bosnian Muslim who had taught high school in
Brcko in before the Serbs invaded Bosnia.

"I am here now with my husband and three children and am very thankful.  So we
are celebrating the holiday with a turkey with 15 other families from Bosnia,"
she said.

Haid, who was a managing director of television news in Mogadishu, Somalia,
before the civil war there forced him into exile, said he had feasted on turkey
many times in American embassies in east Africa and the Middle East.  "They
always have me do the carving so they can take a picture," he said, laughing.

Haid, a Muslim like Mulaosmanovic, recalled several religious holidays and
secular folk practices that Thanksgiving reminded him of.

"At the end of Ramadan, we end our 30-day fast with the feast day of
Iddal-Fidri," he said. "This comes from the same story you have in your Bible of
Abraham being spared the sacrifice of his son, Isaac. We give thanks and ask
God's forgiveness."

Haid said he would not celebrate Thanksgiving at his new apartment provided by
the International Institute.

"I would have too much explaining to do to my four sons. 'Are we Christian now,
papa?' they would ask. It is bad enough trying to explain to them what is
happening with Michael Jackson."

The International Institute, 3800 Park Avenue, provides education and social
services for newly arrived immigrants - now primarily refugees.

Mulaosmanovic and Haid are honing their English and learning American history
and customs at the Institute's free classes. They liked the fact that the first
Thanksgiving meal was a gift from the original Americans to a bunch of confused
new immigrants not unlike themselves.

But Mulaosmanovic and her husband, Mustafa, almost didn't stay Wednesday to eat
their turkey. They and about a dozen other Bosnian Muslims balked when they
heard that the turkeys donated by local Shop 'N Save stores had been cooked by
members of Holy Trinity Eastern Orthodox Church.

"They don't want to eat turkey fixed by people who help the ones killing their
people in Bosnia," said Steve Price, a spokesman for the group. Price is a
Croatian-American who came here from Bosnia 42 years ago and volunteers with the
institute.

Another official, Ann Rynearson, solved the crisis when she explained that the
turkeys had been baked by institute volunteers at Holy Trinity's large kitchen
because the institute did not have enough ovens.

"No problem then," nodded Reuf Travancic, who came here last summer from a
war-torn area of Bosnia. "The International Institute is very good to the people
of Bosnia, so we stay. But next year 14 Bosnian families will cook turkeys for
the institute."

Other agencies that will be serving Thanksgiving meals today to the needy and
homeless include:

New Life Evangelistic Center, 1411 Locust Street, from 11:30 a.m. to 1:30 p.m.

Salvation Army's Harbor Light Center, which will serve at three locations: the
main facility at 3010 Washington Boulevard, from 11:30 a.m. to 3 p.m.; Railton
Residence, 18th and Pine streets, from noon to 3 p.m., and the Salvation Army
flood relief center at West Alton, from 11:30 a.m. to 1:30 p.m.

Someone Cares Mission, 1301 Benton Street, from 11 a.m. to 3 p.m.

St. Patrick Center, 1200 North Sixth Street, from noon to 2 p.m.

LOAD-DATE: November 26, 1993

LANGUAGE: English

                  Copyright 1993 St. Louis Post-Dispatch, Inc.


                              269 of 308 DOCUMENTS

                       St. Louis Post-Dispatch (Missouri)

                 December 2, 1993, THURSDAY, FIVE STAR Edition

LETTERS FROM THE PEOPLE

SECTION: EDITORIAL; Pg. 6B

LENGTH: 760 words


One Language For All

I am the granddaughter of a proud immigrant family that came to this country
after the turn of the century. My grandfather was an educated customs officer
who left Sweden for political reasons and came here with his family.

When my grandfather settled in St. Louis, he insisted that English be spoken in
the home. He filed for citizenship papers as quickly as possible and tried to
enlist in the army in World War I, but was not accepted because of age. The
American flag was always flown on the property.

This family took pride in being American and helped to uphold the moral fiber of
this country. Our new immigrants could learn a lot from their predecessors.

Immigrants who came to the United States at the turn of the century were proud
people anxious to make a fresh start in America. These people came from many
distinctly different backgrounds and cultures with as many reasons to relocate.
But the desire to become citizens of the United States of America was the factor
that pulled them together. Language barriers were overcome by the urgent need to
learn English, so communication with all nationalities was quickly accomplished.

The divergence of cultural backgrounds gave this country the nickname "the
melting pot." Immigrants tempered their ties to the old country and were eager
to become citizens. They did not forsake their heritage, however, as traditions
were proudly upheld, but a spirit of loyalty and devotion to their new home
quickly was manifested. Immigrants took pride in building this country to the
greatness it is today.

Today's immigrants come to this country for the same reason - a fresh start, but
the desire to "melt" is not as evident as it was at the turn of the century.
Learning English to communicate is no longer an urgent need as each nationality
tends to cloister in certain locations and wants only to speak in the native
tongue.

The enthusiasm to become Americans in the true sense of the word no longer
exists. Perhaps it is because our government now allows some schools to teach
classes in languages other than English.

The fundamental feelings of our new immigrants for appreciation and pride in
becoming an American citizen are lost when even our own government believes
learning our national language is not important. Yet a country will not survive
as one entity when communication breaks down.

Our new immigrants must have the same pride in our country as the early
immigrants. America is one country - with liberty, justice and one language for
all.  Jeannine Schupmann Maryland Heights

LOAD-DATE: December 3, 1993

LANGUAGE: English

TYPE: LETTERS

                  Copyright 1993 St. Louis Post-Dispatch, Inc.


                              270 of 308 DOCUMENTS

                       St. Louis Post-Dispatch (Missouri)

                 February 2, 1994, WEDNESDAY, FIVE STAR Edition

GENE MCNARY RETURNING TO CLAYTON

BYLINE: Mark Schlinkmann and Jerry Berger Of the Post-Dispatch Staff

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 1B

LENGTH: 374 words


Gene McNary, the former St. Louis County executive who moved to Washington to
head the nation's immigration service about four years ago, is coming home.

McNary, a Republican who resigned his job as commissioner of the Immigration and
Naturalization Service a year ago after Democrat Bill Clinton was elected
president, plans to practice law here with firm of Danna, Soraghan and
Stockenberg in Clayton.

Joseph Soraghan, a partner in the firm, said Tuesday that details still have to
be worked out but that McNary probably would start in a few months.  Soraghan
said plans now call for McNary to be added to the law firm's name.  McNary could
not be reached for comment.

McNary's new office will be on Meramec Avenue, just three blocks from the one he
had for 15 years in the County Administration Building.  Coincidentally, the
neighborhood also includes the law office of former Gov. John Ashcroft, who
defeated McNary in the 1984 GOP primary election for governor.

After leaving the federal post, McNary had kept his home in the Washington area
while looking for a new job. He also has been working with Bert Walker - a
brokerage executive here and cousin of former President George Bush - to buy a
minor league baseball team to move to Springfield, Mo.

Before serving as county executive, McNary spent eight years as St. Louis County
prosecutor.

LOAD-DATE: February 3, 1994

LANGUAGE: English

                  Copyright 1994 St. Louis Post-Dispatch, Inc.


                              271 of 308 DOCUMENTS

                       St. Louis Post-Dispatch (Missouri)

                February 23, 1994, WEDNESDAY, THREE STAR Edition

GRADES DROP AS IMMIGRANT CHILDREN ARE 'AMERICANIZED,' STUDY SAYS

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 3A

LENGTH: 1014 words

DATELINE: SAN FRANCISCO


Immigrant children do better in school than their American classmates but their
performance declines as they become more Americanized, a study says.

The study, the largest of its kind, is key to helping immigrant children advance
as the nation loses the manufacturing jobs where their parents have
traditionally found work, said Ruben G. Rumbaut, a sociology professor at
Michigan State University.

"The longer you are in the United States, the more you learn, among other
things, the bad habits, such as wearing headphones while studying or waiting to
the last minute to study for a test," Rumbaut said Tuesday at a meeting of the
American Association for the Advancement of Science.

Many studies have shown that the children of immigrants do better in school than
American children. This study shows that as immigrants who are children become
Americanized, they move in the direction of their American counterparts.

Rumbaut's study shows that foreign-born children who have lived in the United
States for five to 10 years had a grade point average of 2.58, which is higher
than that of U.S.-born children of immigrants.

The U.S.-born children of immigrants, who were generally more Americanized, had
a grade point average of 2.44. The study did not compare the immigrant groups
with the children of non-immigrants.

The foreign-born children spent an average of 2.59 hours a day doing homework,
compared with 2.40 hours a day among the American-born children. The figures are
based on analysis of school records of 5,000 children in San Diego and Miami.

Judith Treas, chairman of the sociology department at the University of
California, Irvine, said other studies had found similar effects.

"There does seem to be this extraordinary draw of American culture for immigrant
children, not always with good consequences," she said.

Guillermina Jasso, a sociology professor at New York University, said, "More
research is needed before we can have a better assessment. But one of the things
we do know is that U.S.-born immigrant children outperform American children."

One reason immigrant children do better than Americans in school is that they
devote more time to studying, Rumbaut said.

"Immigrant kids know that education is their only ticket out, so they take it
more seriously," he said.

In an analysis of 1990 census data, Rumbaut found that the number of immigrants
in the United States has risen to 19.8 million. "That's an all-time high, and
the largest immigrant population of any society in world history," he said.

For the first time, the number of immigrants arriving from Latin America and the
Caribbean has surpassed those coming from Europe.

By far the largest group is Mexicans, who make up 22 percent of U.S.
immigrants. They are the main exception to the rule that immigrant children work
harder and do better than Americans.

That's probably because the Mexicans' educational levels are low to start with,
and they are victims of a long history of discrimination, Rumbaut said.

Another reason is that many Mexicans are in the United States illegally, and so
they stay away from school altogether, he said.

Among the most successful students are the children of Asian immigrants, the
fastest growing immigrant group in the country.

For example, Vietnamese children have a grade point average of 2.87 and spend an
average of 3.03 hours a day on homework. They top all other immigrant groups,
and they are followed closely by other Asians.

Rumbaut said it's important to help immigrant children advance to do better in
an hourglass economy, with jobs clustered at the top and bottom ends of the
economic scale.

Immigrants who cannot meet the educational requirements of the top jobs will be
consigned to the lowest paying jobs, Rumbaut said.

LOAD-DATE: February 24, 1994

LANGUAGE: English

                  Copyright 1994 St. Louis Post-Dispatch, Inc.


                              272 of 308 DOCUMENTS

                       St. Louis Post-Dispatch (Missouri)

                    April 1, 1994, FRIDAY, FIVE STAR Edition

DETAILS SET ON IMMIGRATION LOTTERY

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 7A

LENGTH: 547 words

DATELINE: WASHINGTON


The State Department has released the long-awaited details of an immigration
lottery this year that will give 55,000 winners the right to get a green card so
they can live and work in the United States.

Millions of would-be immigrants from all over the world are expected to send
applications to one of six special post office boxes set up in Portsmouth, N.H.

Federal officials announced on Wednesday stringent rules that lottery applicants
must follow.

There is no special form for the lottery, so each applicant need only submit
certain information in a letter. Failure to include the required information
will disqualify an application, State Department officials said.

Applications must be received at the post office boxes between June 1 and June
30. Applications received before or after those dates will be disqualified,
State Department officials stressed. Entries also will be invalidated if a
person sends more than one application.

Names of the winners will be announced by early summer or by fall.  Officials
hope to announce more lotteries in the next four years.

Twelve nations are excluded from the lottery because of high immigration rates
to the United States in the last five fiscal years: Canada, China, Dominican
Republic, El Salvador, India, Jamaica, Mexico, the Philippines, South Korea,
Taiwan, United Kingdom (except Northern Ireland) and Vietnam.

To qualify, applicants must have at least a high school education or the
equivalent. As an alternative, they may offer evidence of two years of work
within the last five years requiring at least two years of training.

There is no application fee or special form. Applicants must type or print
relevant information in English on a plain sheet of paper. The envelopes must
not be longer than 10 inches nor wider than 4.5 inches. The applicant's name and
country must appear clearly in English on the front of the envelope.

Each application will be examined and get a special code number. A computer then
will randomly choose the winning numbers.

A special visa lottery hot line has been set up. The 24-hour number is (202)
663-1600. Information also can be found at U.S. embassies and consulates
overseas.

LOAD-DATE: April 2, 1994

LANGUAGE: English

                  Copyright 1994 St. Louis Post-Dispatch, Inc.


                              273 of 308 DOCUMENTS

                       St. Louis Post-Dispatch (Missouri)

                     May 9, 1994, MONDAY, FIVE STAR Edition

HAITIANS GET U.S. TOEHOLD; BUT CHANGE IS NOT OPENING UP FLOODGATES,' CLINTON
TELLS PUBLIC

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 1A

LENGTH: 853 words

DATELINE: WASHINGTON


President Bill Clinton sought to assure Americans on Sunday that his new Haiti
policy would not lead to a tide of immigrants arriving on U.S. shores.

He formally announced his new refugee policy in a White House Rose Garden news
conference. A New York Times report about the plan to change U.S. policy was
published in Sunday's Post-Dispatch.

Clinton also disclosed Sunday that former Rep. William Gray III, D-Pa., now
president of the United Negro College Fund, would become his special adviser on
Haiti.

Gray's appointment appears to give Clinton's new stance on Haiti more
credibility with black leaders who had criticized his previous policy.

At the same time, Clinton did not back away from his insistence that economic
refugees would not be permitted in the United States and would be returned to
Haiti.

"We aren't opening up the floodgates to refugees, but we are going to help
people that are genuinely fearing for their lives," the president said. "There
will be more people processed, but we haven't broadened the criteria for
entering the country."

Under the policy, the United States will set up immigration centers aboard ships
anchored near Haiti, enabling political refugees fleeing on boats to be
processed. In addition, the United States will set up a processing center in a
third country not yet identified. Clinton said the process meant that the new
policy would not begin for "some weeks."

In the meantime, the United States will continue sending back Haitians
intercepted at sea without processing their claims.

Clinton stressed that the ultimate solution must be the departure of the
military leaders who overthrew Haiti's exiled president, Jean-Bertrand Aristide,
in a coup in 1991.

To that end, the United Nations on May 21 will begin imposing tougher sanctions
on the Haitian military government. The United States had urged this action and
Clinton said Sunday that U.S. naval vessels would strengthen their patrols off
Haiti to enforce those sanctions.

He said the United States "cannot and should not rule out other options," an
apparent reference to the use of military intervention to drive the Haitian
military leaders from power.

Clinton acknowledged that stronger sanctions would cause "more hardship for
innocent Haitians," but he said the military leaders in Haiti "bear full
responsibility for this action. They can stop the suffering of their people by
giving up power . . . and allowing the restoration of democracy."

The White House has come under attack for not doing enough to restore Aristide
to power. Clinton's announcements Sunday accomplished their immediate political
goal of quieting the intense criticism of his policies at home, primarily from
Democrats. Rationale For Change

Samuel "Sandy" Berger, deputy national security adviser, said Sunday, "As
violence has increased, we wanted to make sure that people who are fleeing on
boats have an opportunity to assert those claims outside of Haiti before they
are taken back and turned over to Haitian authorities."

Berger said on NBC's "Meet the Press," "About 95 percent of the people coming in
are not political refugees. I don't think the numbers are going to be
overwhelming."

He said the United States would work with the Dominican Republic, which shares
Haiti's only land border, to "do our very best to seal that border."

As for military intervention, Berger said the White House wanted to try to push
the military regime out through economic sanctions first. "It is not a fork in
the road that we have reached at this point." New Policy Welcomed Clinton's
policy shift won quick approval from some who have condemned him for turning
back thousands of Haitian boat people:

Aristide called the move a "step in the right direction" but said, "It will not
protect the millions of Haitian citizens who continue to face increased violence
in Haiti."

Randall Robinson, head of the TransAfrica lobbying group, said he was ending a
hunger strike Sunday after 27 days, because he was assured that more attention
would be given to political refugees.

Rep. Maxine Waters, D-Calif., a member of the Congressional Black Caucus, said
"I don't want the policy to just stop here, modifying repatriation. I want us to
actively work toward returning Aristide so we can stop them (Haitians) from
coming."

Anne Fuller, associate director of the National Coalition for Haitian Refugees,
said too many unanswered questions remained to give the change an unqualified
thumbs up.

Where the asylum interviews take place, how quickly they are done and the
qualifications of the personnel conducting them are all still up in the air, she
said. She added that, of the 22,716 refugees picked up at sea between 1981 and
1991, only 28 were allowed into the United States to pursue asylum claims.

On the other hand, Lt. Gen. Raoul Cedras, Haiti's military leader, spoke on NBC
of the need for dialogue but evaded questions about whether he was willing to
step down if given assurances of amnesty.

"I personally think that a military invasion would be the worst mistake
possible," Cedras said.

LOAD-DATE: May 10, 1994

LANGUAGE: English

GRAPHIC: PHOTO; Photo by AP - President Bill Clinton outlines his new policy
toward Haitian refugees at a news conference Sunday. With him is former Rep.
William Gray III, whom Clinton named as an adviser on Haiti.

                  Copyright 1994 St. Louis Post-Dispatch, Inc.


                              274 of 308 DOCUMENTS

                       St. Louis Post-Dispatch (Missouri)

                   May 12, 1994, THURSDAY, FIVE STAR Edition

WHEAT'S WELFARE REFORM BILL LIMITS AID, HELP TO IMMIGRANTS

BYLINE: Robert L. Koenig Post-Dispatch Washington Bureau

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 6A

LENGTH: 296 words

DATELINE: WASHINGTON


A welfare reform bill introduced Wednesday by Rep. Alan Wheat, D-Mo., and a
group of moderate House Democrats would set a two-year lifetime limit on welfare
aid.

The bill also would bar some new immigrants from getting most forms of public
assistance.

Wheat, a candidate for the Democratic nomination for the U.S. Senate, contends
that his plan would help restore taxpayers' confidence in the welfare system by
dispelling "the perception of a welfare society divorced from work and
responsibility."

The bill's other main sponsor is Rep. Dave McCurdy, D-Okla., head of the House
Mainstream Forum.

But groups who represent immigrants denounced the legislation as unfair. Raul
Yzaguirre, president of the National Council of La Raza - a Hispanic civil
rights group - criticized the plan for proposing to eliminate food stamps,
medical care and other benefits for newly arrived legal immigrants who have
reunited with family members who are American citizens.

McCurdy asserted that his group's welfare plan does not unfairly punish
non-citizens, because it exempts some "truly needy immigrants" and allows
refugees to get public assistance for as long as six years.

Wheat said his group's welfare plan is fair and compassionate, because it
"invests heavily in job training, education, child care, health care and other
support" for Americans who are trying to make the difficult transition from
welfare to the workplace. The bill allows exceptions to the two-year welfare
limit for people with special needs, he said.

"Taxpayers will know that welfare recipients are making their best effort to
become employed," Wheat said. "And the people making that effort will know that,
at the end of the education and training process, there will be a job
available."

LOAD-DATE: May 13, 1994

LANGUAGE: English

                  Copyright 1994 St. Louis Post-Dispatch, Inc.


                              275 of 308 DOCUMENTS

                       St. Louis Post-Dispatch (Missouri)

                    May 23, 1994, MONDAY, FIVE STAR Edition

YEARNING TO BREATHE FREE'

BYLINE: Angie O'Gorman

SECTION: EDITORIAL; Pg. 17B

LENGTH: 936 words

COMMENTARY COLUMN


We live in a time of unprecedented global migrations of people in search of
security and survival. In 1976, the United Nations estimated there were 2.8
million refugees worldwide. Today, that estimate has reached 19 million. Famine,
war and international trade and development policies - many designed to keep
Third World resources cheap for the benefit of First World consumers - have
combined to cause a global human crisis on the move.

A small percentage of these people find their way to the United States and
request political asylum. They claim to fear persecution in their homeland due
to race, religion, nationality, political opinion or membership in a persecuted
group. Unfortunately, it is now politically popular to blame these asylum
seekers for many of our social and economic woes.

To make matters worse, asylum policy itself is adrift having lost the moorings
the Cold War provided. When we could simply identified persecution with
communism it was easier to determine when and where it existed.

Prompted by strong anti-immigrant sentiment and the internal policy confusion,
the Immigration and Naturalization Service has proposed new regulations to
govern U.S. asylum procedures.

New regulations are desperately needed. The asylum process in the United States
is chronically dysfunctional. A backlog of 370,000 asylum applications keeps
approximately 1 million people in psychological and economic limbo. In the St.
Louis area, the majority of asylum applications filed since 1989 have never been
decided. Permission to work is granted for six months to a year with extensive
delays in obtaining renewals and a $ 60 fee for each renewal. Applicants, their
spouses and children must put their lives on hold, unable to set down roots, yet
fearing to return home.

There are two differing analysis as to the cause of the system's breakdown. One
asserts it is the result of wide-spread abuse of asylum procedures by people
filing frivolous claims. Such applicants only want to buy time in the United
States to work. They apply and then slip, unnoticed, into American society.

A second analysis suggests the asylum system was never sufficiently funded or
adequately staffed by trained hearing officers who could consistently apply
asylum law. Congress sought to achieve an evenhanded process in which each
asylum case would be on its merits. But social class, cultural factors and
political considerations took precedence over legal standards and created havoc.

The system's breakdown probably resulted from a combination of these factors,
but a question of emphasis remains. The proposed asylum regulations clearly
emphasize the "people-taking-advantage-of-the-system" analysis, regardless of
the fact that governmental and private studies show this is not the core
problem. Even INS' own statistics show only a 7 percent filing rate of
"manifestly unfounded" asylum applications.

A Harvard Law School study published in September 1993, indicates that 50
percent of the decisions by asylum officers since 1991 contained errors of law
or analysis making additional hearings in the next level of the system -
immigration court - necessary. A 1992 study published in the New York University
Review of Law and Social Change showed that systemic problems in the
decision-making of the immigration court itself made recourse to the appeals
level necessary. Thus, multiple hearings have been generated by the system
itself.

It was hoped the new regulations would address these problems by creating a full
and fair hearing process. However, the real focus is on keeping frivolous
applicants out of the system.

Thus, INS recommends a $ 130 filing fee and withholding work permission
(requiring another fee of $ 60) for 180 days. In other words, applicants will be
required to pay a substantial filing fee but will not have permission to work.
Nor will work permission be extended if a decision is appealed, thus making
appeals inaccessible to most asylum applicants.

These are punitive regulations. A mechanism already exists to reject a frivolous
claim when the application is filed. The new proposed regulations merely limit
access to the asylum process to those who can afford it, a doubtful criteria on
which to base legal procedures.

Additionally, these regulations assume that an asylum applicant has legal
representation. Most do not. Assuming representation, the asylum officer expects
an applicant to be able to clearly state his or her case in ways that meet the
legal definition of persecution as known to the officer. Safeguards to protected
asylum applicants in this complicated cross-cultural legal process have been
deleted.

Also absent from the regulations are protections for the asylum seeker against
errors made by hearing officers and immigration judges. An impressive increase
in the number of personel is called for, but the systemic problems in applying
case law and the high rate of legal error are not addressed. Safeguards against
bureaucratic breakdowns are absent.

In short, the new regulations protect the system from the applicants rather than
ensure the applicants a fair and impartial asylum procedure.

The United States is not innocent in the global tragedy that makes asylum
necessary, nor do we receive the bulk of the world's asylum seekers. The United
States has played a political and economic role in creating facof global
migration - war and poverty. We have an obligation, moral and legal, to create
asylum procedures that respond fairly to the needs we helped create. It may be
inconvenient, but that is not an excuse for injustice.

LOAD-DATE: May 24, 1994

LANGUAGE: English

                  Copyright 1994 St. Louis Post-Dispatch, Inc.


                              276 of 308 DOCUMENTS

                       St. Louis Post-Dispatch (Missouri)

                   June 2, 1994, THURSDAY, THREE STAR Edition

JAMAICA TO AID U.S. ON HAITIANS; ACCORD MEANS REFUGEES WILL GET INTERVIEWS
ABOARD SHIPS IN PORTS

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 7A

LENGTH: 364 words

DATELINE: WASHINGTON


Haitian refugees picked up by the U.S. Coast Guard will be taken to a Jamaican
port for shipboard interviews to present their cases for political asylum, the
State Department announced Wednesday.

The accord followed discussions between U.S. and Jamaican officials after
President Bill Clinton pledged May 8 to abandon his policy of automatic forced
repatriation of all Haitian boat people.

Christine Shelly, a State Department spokeswoman, said Jamaica had agreed to
allow interviews of Haitian boat migrants in Jamaican territorial waters.

"Those who can demonstrate a well-founded fear of persecution if they are sent
back to Haiti will be resettled in the United States or other countries," she
said. Others will be returned to Haiti. The United States will pay the costs.

But officials said the agreement with Jamaica might not be sufficient for the
problem. The United States continued to look for other Caribbean nations and
territories to agree to similar arrangements. Officials raised the possibility
that the Turks and Caicos Islands, to the north of Haiti, also might play a role
in refugee processing.

In Kingston, Jamaican Prime Minister P.J. Patterson told Parliament that the
operation would not last more than six months.

Until now, the only escape route available to Haitians fearful of persecution
has been U.S. processing centers inside Haitian territory. Officials have said
that the majority of Haitian boat people are economic refugees who have no legal
claim to take up residence in the United States.

Meanwhile, Haiti blamed bureaucrats for freezing almost $ 12 million in U.S.
humanitarian aid and insisted Wednesday that it was not trying to discourage
international relief efforts. U.S. officials say the freeze was ordered by
Haiti's military rulers and could endanger life-sustaining food shipments to
hundreds of thousands of Haitians. William Schauer, a U.S. Embassy spokesman,
called the freeze "an illegal act."

The money, from the sale of wheat flour, is meant to pay for job-creation
programs and for transportation, fuel and other costs run up by three private
relief groups feeding Haitians under a U.S. aid contract.

LOAD-DATE: June 3, 1994

LANGUAGE: English

                  Copyright 1994 St. Louis Post-Dispatch, Inc.


                              277 of 308 DOCUMENTS

                       St. Louis Post-Dispatch (Missouri)

                   June 19, 1994, SUNDAY, THREE STAR Edition

WITH EYE ON CUBA, U.S. PLANS FOR MASS IMMIGRATION

BYLINE: Louis Freedberg 1994, San Francisco Chronicle

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 7D

LENGTH: 831 words

DATELINE: WASHINGTON


The federal government is putting the finishing touches on a plan to cope with a
sudden flood of immigrants, for example from Cuba.

The plan provides a framework for how the United States will deal with a huge
migration that could follow a sudden or radical political change, like the
collapse of Fidel's Castro regime.

Researchers at the University of Miami estimate that a revolutionary overthrow
of the Castro regime could lead to a migration of 100,000 people from the
island. Should a civil war begin, the numbers could reach 300,000.

The most likely scenario for Cuba, researchers said, is a "gradual decline in
central authority as chaos grips the country." Under this plan, 200,000 people
could arrive in South Florida over two years.

The U.S. plan, codenamed "Operation Distant Shore," involves 37 federal
agencies, including the Defense Department, the CIA, the FBI and the Immigration
and Naturalization Service.

Phyllis Coven, a deputy attorney general, said: "This is a plan that has been in
the works for a long time. The goal is to have a coordinated response" to an
immigration emergency.

One part calls for turning local law enforcement officers into temporary INS
agents to help process the hundreds of thousands of immigrants who might arrive.
Another part calls for converting military bases into emergency housing
shelters.

An emergency might be either "a large number of people over a short period of
time, or a small number for a long period of time," said Nancy Wittenberg,
Florida's director of refugee programs. "Both take their toll on a community."

A clear impetus to complete the plan is the possibility that Castro might not
last much longer - either because of his advancing age or because of the
instability that could be set off by the country's deteriorating economy.

Work on the plan began 13 years ago, when Florida social service agencies were
inundated with 125,000 Cuban immigrants during the Mariel boatlift. The state's
political leaders fear that a new influx would overwhelm local services and have
been demanding assurances from the White House that they will not be stuck with
the full cost of any new migration.

In July, all 25 members of Florida's congressional delegation wrote to Attorney
General Janet Reno expressing their concern that details of an emergency plan
had not been worked out.

"While no one can accurately predict the timing or effects of a transition of
power in Cuba, each hour brings us closer to that nation's next revolution," the
letter said.

White House officials discussed the plan with Florida legislators last month.
One of their major concerns was that tens of thousands of new migrants would end
up being housed permanently in Florida.

Under agreements reached with the White House, military sites such as Homestead
Air Force Base would be converted into temporary housing facilities, but only
immigrants with relatives already legally in Florida would be allowed to stay in
the state. Others would be moved - probably within weeks - to other states.

The most politically explosive question about the U.S. response to any sudden
political change in Cuba is whether the United States will continue to admit all
Cubans, even if Castro is no longer president.

Under the Cuban Adjustment Act, any Cuban who reaches the United States
automatically receives permanent resident status. The emergency plan does not
mention how President Bill Clinton, who received substantial campaign support
from Cuban-Americans opposed to Castro, would treat Cubans leaving their country
in a future emergency.

But the plan does not rule out interdicting refugees at sea, regardless of what
country they come from. "The plan does involve interdiction," said Coven, the
deputy attorney general.

The emergency plan is thought to include several stages in dealing with a mass
migration, including:

Improving intelligence-gathering operations.

Setting up an emergency response team to prepare for their arrival, followed by
an "interdiction" phase leading to either repatriation to the sending country or
bringing individuals to processing centers.

Providing emergency medical treatment, identify migrants, separating smugglers
for prosecution and transporting people for initial screening.

Setting up short-term detention in Florida and long-term detention outside
Florida, and separating those with asylum claims and those who are deportable.

Resettling eligible migrants.

Dennis Gallagher, executive director of the nonprofit Refugee Policy Group in
Washington, worries that plans like Operation Distant Shore might, in effect,
criminalize those who leave their countries for legitimate reasons.

"The U.S. has espoused the right of freedom of movement," he said. "We should
not get to the point where we almost criminalize the right of people to leave
their country by whatever means they can."

What is still in question is just how many Cubans will leave their country.

LOAD-DATE: June 20, 1994

LANGUAGE: English

                  Copyright 1994 St. Louis Post-Dispatch, Inc.


                              278 of 308 DOCUMENTS

                       St. Louis Post-Dispatch (Missouri)

                   June 26, 1994, SUNDAY, THREE STAR Edition

STOWAWAY BOY REACHES MIAMI - AND TROUBLE

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 7A

LENGTH: 247 words

DATELINE: MIAMI


A 10-year-old stowaway from Mexico outsmarted himself, police say, when he
sneaked onto the wrong plane in Mexico City and ended up in Miami.

The boy was detained at Miami International Airport early Thursday after police
caught him with $ 1,100 stolen from a sleeping tourist's purse. The boy,
identified by police only as Ismael, apparently stole the money to buy a plane
ticket back home.

"Ismael's master plan was to steal money, go to the counter and buy a ticket
home," said Detective Jesse Mendoza, who nabbed the boy.

Instead, the youngster earned a trip to juvenile detention hall. He then was
transferred to Krome Detention Center by immigration officials. He flew home to
Monterrey Friday. The tourist got all her money back. Police gave this report:

The boy intended to sneak onto a Wednesday night flight from Mexico City to
Monterrey in northeast Mexico, where he lives with his mother. But he hopped on
the wrong plane and landed in Miami.

Once in Miami, the boy managed to slip past Customs Bureau and immigration
officials and into the terminal. He saw Paula Malcolm, 30, a tourist from
Kingston, Jamaica, napping at the terminal. He grabbed her purse and ran into a
men's restroom. A group of missionaries saw the boy with the purse and alerted
police.

Mendoza stopped the boy. In his pocket, police found $ 1,100. Ismael was charged
with one count of grand theft, but authorities dropped the charge and decided
just to send the boy back home.

LOAD-DATE: June 27, 1994

LANGUAGE: English

                  Copyright 1994 St. Louis Post-Dispatch, Inc.


                              279 of 308 DOCUMENTS

                       St. Louis Post-Dispatch (Missouri)

                   August 12, 1994, FRIDAY, FIVE STAR Edition

RENO MOVES TO HALT FLOW OF CUBANS; ATTORNEY GENERAL OUTLINES CRACKDOWN ON BOAT
OWNERS

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 3A

LENGTH: 331 words

DATELINE: WASHINGTON


Attorney General Janet Reno moved Thursday to thwart a possible attempt by
exiles in southern Florida to spur a mass exodus from Cuba.

At a hastily arranged evening news conference, she said law enforcement
officials may stop and board U.S.-flag vessels that appear to be Cuba-bound to
determine their plans.

Vessels believed headed to bring back undocumented Cubans will be seized, and
action may be begun that could lead to forfeiture and criminal charges, she
added.

Three men suspected of using their U.S.-registered speedboat to ferry 22 Cubans
from that country were detained Thursday after dropping their passengers in the
Florida Keys.

If charged with violating U.S. immigration laws, it would be the first
prosecution of its kind, U.S. Attorney Kendall Coffey said in Miami. He said he
expected the men would be charged.

Cuban President Fidel Castro, reacting to disturbances in Havana last week and a
spate of hijackings, has threatened to unleash a flood of refugees, as he did in
the so-called Mariel boat lift in 1980.

He said he would do so unless the United States stopped what he called its
policy of encouraging Cubans to leave their communist-ruled island illegally.

Castro contends that the United States does this by restricting the number of
visas granted to Cubans who want to emigrate but allowing those who reach its
shores illegally to stay.

During the Mariel boat lift, a flotilla of vessels manned mainly by Cuban exiles
picked up 125,000 Cubans, some of them common criminals hastily freed from
prisons and mental wards, and brought them to the United States.

"The United States has repeatedly stated we will not permit another Mariel," she
said. "We want to take all steps that are prudent, that are consistent with our
policy, to ensure that that does not happen."

So far this year, 5,345 Cubans have arrived in the United States after leaving
on boats or rafts, including 75 rescued by the Coast Guard in the past two days.

LOAD-DATE: August 13, 1994

LANGUAGE: English

                  Copyright 1994 St. Louis Post-Dispatch, Inc.


                              280 of 308 DOCUMENTS

                       St. Louis Post-Dispatch (Missouri)

                  August 20, 1994, SATURDAY, FIVE STAR Edition

KEEPING TRACK OF IMMIGRATION

SECTION: EDITORIAL; Pg. 14B

LENGTH: 376 words


A proposal for a computerized registry of the names and Social Security numbers
of all citizens and aliens has prompted a predictable and, to a degree,
understandable protest. The notion of a national identification system to help
combat illegal immigration automatically raises the specter of abuse by
overzealous investigatory agencies. But the latest idea, from a panel whose
concern for civil liberties is genuine, deserves serious consideration.

The nine-member Commission on Immigration Reform recommended unanimously that
Social Security numbers be used as the way employers check the backgrounds of
job applicants. Currently, more than two dozen different documents can be used
for verification purposes, but the commission found that many of the documents
can be forged easily or altered, making it difficult to keep accurate records.
The commission wants to establish a pilot program in five states - probably
Illinois, California, Florida, Texas and New York - and evaluate the results
after three years.

Former Rep. Barbara Jordan, who chaired the commission, tried to calm concerns
about possible misuse of the system, saying that safeguards would try to prevent
invasion of privacy or job discrimination. She stressed the simplicity for
employers. However, groups such as the American Civil Liberties Union and the
National Council of La Raza, which represents Hispanics, said the computerized
registry would be tantamount to a national ID card, which has been considered
and rejected in the past as a threat to civil liberties. They also raised fears
that employers might decide against hiring people with accents or
foreign-sounding names rather than go through any extra verification hassle.

Those concerns are reasonable, but the problems the commission is trying to
address are real. The computerized registry could only work if enough money is
spent to update and strengthen Social Security and immigration records. That
spending would be beneficial; so would the special attention that the problems
of illegal immigration would receive. Ms. Jordan's past concern for civil rights
would make her an ideal watchdog to make sure the proposed system works the way
it is supposed to. No one should reject it out of hand.

LOAD-DATE: August 21, 1994

LANGUAGE: English

TYPE: EDITORIAL

                  Copyright 1994 St. Louis Post-Dispatch, Inc.


                              281 of 308 DOCUMENTS

                       St. Louis Post-Dispatch (Missouri)

                   August 21, 1994, SUNDAY, FIVE STAR Edition

CLINTON RUNNING RISKS WITH REVERSAL OF CUBA POLICY; HE'S BANKING ON
ANTI-IMMIGRATION ANGER OVERSHADOWING ANTIPATHY TOWARD CASTRO

BYLINE: Bill Lambrecht Post-Dispatch Washington Bureau

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 6B

LENGTH: 763 words

DATELINE: WASHINGTON


BILL CLINTON lost his campaign for re-election as governor in 1980 in part
because of rioting at Fort Chafee, Ark., by Cuban refugees from the Mariel
boatlift.

Fourteen years later as president, Clinton is once more confronted with a
volatile political situation involving Cuban refugees trying to sail to Florida.
So when he closed the border to them Friday, he did so with some personal
knowledge of the strong public sentiments on Cuba.

He obviously runs risks in sending Cuban refugees back to the U.S. Naval Station
at Guantanamo Bay, Cuba - reversing nearly three decades of U.S. policy in which
Cubans were welcomed into this country. On the other hand, he might be pressed
to lift the economic embargo against Cuba now that U.S. policy has been opened
for review.

"The danger here is that he has released events that he can't control," said
Richard Millett, a senior research associate of the North-South Center of Miami
University.

Since the 1960s, the United States has encouraged Cubans to settle in this
country as a means of destabilizing Cuba.

When Cubans arrived in the United States, they were given money, asylum and
permanent residency after one year, a policy that proved to be a magnet for
doctors, engineers and some of the best and brightest Cubans.

But in recent months, contradictions in U.S. policy became too clear. While
Cubans were welcomed, people from Haiti - the next Caribbean island to the east
- were sent home or held at Guantanamo Bay.

In evening the treatment of Cubans and Haitians, Clinton may be acting in step
with members of the American public who have turned hostile to the tide of
immigration.

But experts say the president risks political fallout if Cubans suffer from the
policy. And they warn that in this situation, like the Haitian one, the United
States is not supported by world opinion.

"Politically, the president has to worry about being seen as insensitive as far
as the human question here," said Philip Brenner, chairman of international
politics and foreign policy at The American University in Washington. "When it
comes to Cuba, world sympathy is not on our side."

Cuba may be seen as a further sign of U.S. indecisiveness. "It shows that
waiting and trying to manage the problem only makes it worse," said James
Morrell of the Center for International Policy, in Washington.

Morrell also believes that combining the Cuban and Haitian refugee problem, as
Clinton has done, "will only increase the desire to resolve the Haitian problem"
- meaning that Clinton will be under added pressure to invade Haiti to dislodge
the military rulers there.

Supporters of dropping the embargo are not likely to press their point during
the fall election campaigns because of the unpopularity of Cuban leader Fidel
Castro and the deep-seated feelings by many Americans when it comes to Cuba and
communism.

But some proponents of a relaxed U.S. policy toward Cuba believe that Clinton
has opened the door to debate.

They note that the United States has normal relations with other hard-line
countries and now trades with Vietnam after being at war there in the 1970s.

"I think that the result of the president's new policy is to make it politically
acceptable to talk about this," said one congressional expert on Cuba. "People
will feel more freedom, and now they will have reason to."

In Florida, a state with 25 Electoral College votes, the Clinton administration
is bracing for political fallout from the president's new policy. But so far,
the reaction by Cuban-Americans is cautious.

State Sen. Mario Diaz-Balart said in a telephone interview that people in his
Miami district felt betrayed. "It's a painful day for the people who are
suffering under Castro. Mr. Clinton has allowed American policy to be dictated
by Castro."

But others said they were waiting to measure the effects of the policy and hoped
that Clinton would keep pressure on Castro.

In Florida, Jeb Bush, former President George Bush's son, is a candidate in the
Sept. 6 Republican primary to challenge Gov. Lawton Chiles, a Democrat.

While it may be too early to judge, some analysts said the changed U.S. policy
could improve Chiles' re-election chances because of public sentiment in Florida
against immigration.

In 1992, Clinton lost Florida to George Bush by only 73,000 votes.

In 1996, Florida and its 25 electoral votes will be important to Clinton's
re-election hopes, and his policy toward Cuba is certain to be critical to
Florida voters and perhaps to the success of his entire foreign policy.

LOAD-DATE: August 22, 1994

LANGUAGE: English

                  Copyright 1994 St. Louis Post-Dispatch, Inc.


                              282 of 308 DOCUMENTS

                       St. Louis Post-Dispatch (Missouri)

                  August 21, 1994, SUNDAY, THREE STAR Edition

CLINTON'S TURNABOUT ON CUBANS RISKY; PUBLIC FEELINGS ON IMMIGRATION, CASTRO
COLLIDE

BYLINE: Bill Lambrecht Post-Dispatch Washington Bureau

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 1A

LENGTH: 819 words

DATELINE: WASHINGTON


Bill Clinton lost his campaign for re-election as governor in 1980 in part
because of rioting at Fort Chafee, Ark., by Cuban refugees from the Mariel
boatlift.

Fourteen years later as president, Clinton is once more confronted with a
volatile political situation involving Cuban refugees trying to sail to Florida.
So when he closed the border to them Friday, he did so with some personal
knowledge of the strong public sentiments on Cuba.

He obviously runs risks in sending Cuban refugees back to the U.S. Naval Station
at Guantanamo Bay, Cuba - reversing nearly three decades of U.S. policy in which
Cubans were welcomed into this country. On the other hand, he might be pressed
to lift the economic embargo against Cuba now that U.S. policy has been opened
for review.

"The danger here is that he has released events that he can't control," said
Richard Millett, a senior research associate of the North-South Center of Miami
University.

Since the 1960s, the United States has encouraged Cubans to settle in this
country as a means of destabilizing Cuba.

When Cubans arrived in the United States, they were given money, asylum and
citizenship after one year, a policy that proved to be a magnet for doctors,
engineers and some of the best and brightest Cubans.

But in recent months, contradictions in U.S. policy became too clear. While
Cubans were welcomed, people from Haiti - the next Caribbean island to the east
- were sent home or held at Guantanamo Bay.

In evening the treatment of Cubans and Haitians, Clinton may be acting in step
with members of the American public who have turned hostile to the tide of
immigration. But experts say the president risks political fallout if Cubans
suffer from the policy. And they warn that in this situation, like the Haitian
one, the United States is not supported by world opinion.

"Politically, the president has to worry about being seen as insensitive as far
as the human question here," said Philip Brenner, chairman of international
politics and foreign policy at The American University in Washington. "When it
comes to Cuba, world sympathy is not on our side."

Cuba may be seen as a further sign of U.S. indecisiveness. "It shows that
waiting and trying to manage the problem only makes it worse," said James
Morrell of the Center for International Policy, in Washington.

Morrell also believes that combining the Cuban and Haitian refugee problem, as
Clinton has done, "will only increase the desire to resolve the Haitian problem"
- meaning that Clinton will be under added pressure to invade Haiti to dislodge
the military rulers there.

Supporters of dropping the embargo are not likely to press their point during
the fall election campaigns because of the unpopularity of Cuban leader Fidel
Castro and the deep-seated feelings by many Americans when it comes to Cuba and
communism.

But some proponents of a relaxed U.S. policy toward Cuba believe that Clinton
has opened the door to debate. They note that the United States has normal
relations with other hard-line countries and now trades with Vietnam after being
at war there in the 1970s.

"I think that the result of the president's new policy is to make it politically
acceptable to talk about this," said one congressional expert on Cuba. "People
will feel more freedom, and now they will have reason to."

In Florida, a state with 25 Electoral College votes, the Clinton administration
is bracing for political fallout from the president's new policy. But so far,
the reaction by Cuban-Americans is cautious.

State Sen. Mario Diaz-Balart said in a telephone interview that people in his
Miami district felt betrayed. "It's a painful day for the people who are
suffering under Castro. Mr. Clinton has allowed American policy to be dictated
by Castro." But others said they were waiting to measure the effects of the
policy and hoped that Clinton would keep pressure on Castro.

In Florida, Jeb Bush, former President George Bush's son, is a candidate in the
Sept. 6 Republican primary to challenge Gov. Lawton Chiles, a Democrat. While it
may be too early to judge, some analysts said the changed U.S. policy could
improve Chiles' re-election chances because of public sentiment in Florida
against immigration.

In 1992, Clinton lost Florida to George Bush by only 73,000 votes. In 1996,
Florida and its 25 electoral votes will be important to Clinton's re-election
hopes, and his policy toward Cuba is certain to be critical to Florida voters
and perhaps to the success of his entire foreign policy.

Just as the riots in Arkansas over Cuba surprised and hurt Clinton 14 years ago,
the president may need to remember that the politics of Cuba always are frought
with peril.

Brenner of The American University said: "This has to do with historical
enmities, the sense of the loss of our island. When it comes to Cuba, ours is
not a rational politics."

LOAD-DATE: August 22, 1994

LANGUAGE: English

                  Copyright 1994 St. Louis Post-Dispatch, Inc.


                              283 of 308 DOCUMENTS

                       St. Louis Post-Dispatch (Missouri)

                 September 6, 1994, TUESDAY, FIVE STAR Edition

CUBA TALKS MAY BE AT IMPASSE; U.S. REJECTS A PROPOSAL TO INCREASE LEGAL
IMMIGRATION TO 100,000

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 5A

LENGTH: 327 words

DATELINE: NEW YORK


U.S. and Cuban negotiators met for about an hour Monday on halting the exodus of
Cuban refugees, but the talks may be at an impasse.

The negotiators planned to meet again today for a fifth day of talks, but David
Johnson, spokesman for the U.S. delegation, said the time and place of the
negotiations had yet to be set.

One dispute was over an earlier U.S. offer to expand legal Cuban immigration,
perhaps to about 20,000 people a year, in exchange for President Fidel Castro's
promise to stop Cubans from fleeing to the United States.

Cuba reportedly responded with a proposal to increase legal immigration to at
least 100,000 people.

A State Department official, speaking on the condition of anonymity, said the
Cuban proposal was unacceptable. Chief U.S. negotiator Michael Skol entered the
Cuban U.N. mission alone Monday to deliver the U.S. response.

Cuban diplomats did not comment after the Monday meeting.

About 200 people gathered outside the Cuban mission during the talks to protest
Cuba's communist regime and urge the United States not to give in to Castro's
demands.

As they began shouting, "Cuba Si, Castro No," louder and louder, Cuban mission
staff began blasting pro-government popular music from loudspeakers placed
outside the windows on the first floor of the 10-story building.

Cuba's chief delegate, Ricardo Alarcon, has said the refugee crisis cannot be
solved unless the United States agrees to talk about lifting its 32-year-old
economic embargo against Cuba.

The United States insists migration is a separate issue and refuses to discuss
lifting the embargo before Castro implements democratic reforms.

Only about 2,700 Cubans are expected to get U.S. immigration visas this year.
That's less than a tenth of the more than 30,000 people who have left Cuba
aboard rickety rafts and boats this year, most of them in the past month.

By Monday evening, the Coast Guard had picked up 980 more Cubans at sea.

LOAD-DATE: September 7, 1994

LANGUAGE: English

                  Copyright 1994 St. Louis Post-Dispatch, Inc.


                              284 of 308 DOCUMENTS

                       St. Louis Post-Dispatch (Missouri)

                September 7, 1994, WEDNESDAY, THREE STA Edition

IMMIGRANT'S FEAR LEADS TO DEATH; WOMAN IS SCALDED, BUT CALL FOR EMERGENCY
MEDICAL HELP IS DELAYED

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 10A

LENGTH: 290 words

DATELINE: PINOLE, CALIF.


Because of the immigration status of some of her relatives, a Korean woman who
was badly hurt was afraid to call for medical help; it cost her life.

When Pinole emergency crews were called to a suburban home a few minutes before
4 p.m. on Aug. 4, they found that the woman had stopped breathing and had severe
burns on her back and buttocks. Efforts to resuscitate her failed.

Police said the 87-year-old Korean woman, whose name was withheld because of her
relatives' status, had run her morning bath as usual around 8 a.m. but did not
realize she had turned on only the hot faucet and filled the tub with scalding
water. The searing heat instantly made a red ring around her foot as she stepped
into the water, and the pain caused her to panic and fall into the caldronlike
tub.

She was unable to get up after she fell, and her elderly daughter, who was
asleep, did not immediately hear her splashing around and calling for help.

But even after the daughter pulled her out of the tub a minute or so later, the
daughter did not call for emergency medical help - because some members of the
family are illegal immigrants and were terrified of being turned in, police
said.

Finally, the fear of her mother's condition overrode fear of deportation.

Dr. Edward Chow, medical director of the Chinese Community Health Plan and a San
Francisco health commissioner, said the hesitancy to get in touch with
government agencies is common among immigrants.

"I think you see this not just with illegal immigrants, but also with legal
immigrants and even citizens who have come from the type of environment where
there is a great deal of concern about the government's interest in the personal
affairs of someone," Chow said.

LOAD-DATE: September 8, 1994

LANGUAGE: English

                  Copyright 1994 St. Louis Post-Dispatch, Inc.


                              285 of 308 DOCUMENTS

                       St. Louis Post-Dispatch (Missouri)

                 September 8, 1994, THURSDAY, FIVE STAR Edition

U.S. AND CUBA TEMPORARILY BREAK OFF THEIR IMMIGRATION TALKS

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 8A

LENGTH: 314 words

DATELINE: NEW YORK


U.S. and Cuban negotiators suspended talks on stemming the Cuban refugee exodus
Wednesday, indicating there will be no quick solution to the crisis that has
bedeviled the United States but strengthened Cuba's bargaining position.

After a brief negotiating session, Cuba's chief delegate flew back to Havana for
consultations. Talks are expected to resume in New York, possibly Friday.

In Washington, Secretary of State Warren M. Christopher said the talks were
"useful and businesslike."

Wednesday's session focused on a Cuban counterproposal to the U.S. offer to
expand legal immigration from Cuba to at least 20,000 people a year in return
for Havana's promise to halt the exodus. Only 2,700 Cubans were admitted last
year.

An administration official in Washington said the proposal submitted by the
Cuban delegation was a "significant improvement" over an earlier one.

But, the official, speaking on condition of anonymity, said, "There are still
things in there that are not going to work." Details of the Cuban proposal were
not disclosed.

Cuba has said the refugees are fleeing for economic reasons and that an
agreement must include discussion of the U.S. economic embargo of the island.
Washington insists the talks are on migration only.

On Tuesday, Cuban delegate Ricardo Alarcon, a key foreign policy adviser to
President Fidel Castro, hinted that a limited accord on migration might be
reached. He said Cuba was willing to be "very flexible."

In Panama City, Panama, Cuban refugees settled into a tent camp Wednesday after
a U.S. airlift of thousands of rafters got under way.

The U.S. is detaining more than 23,000 Cubans at the U.S. Naval Base at
Guantanamo Bay, Cuba.

To ease crowding at the camp, Panama is letting 10,000 refugees stay
temporarily. But Panama has told the United States the Cubans must be relocated
within six months.

LOAD-DATE: September 9, 1994

LANGUAGE: English

                  Copyright 1994 St. Louis Post-Dispatch, Inc.


                              286 of 308 DOCUMENTS

                       St. Louis Post-Dispatch (Missouri)

                September 10, 1994, SATURDAY, THREE STAR Edition

U.S. AND CUBA REACH ACCORD ON IMMIGRATION

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 1A

LENGTH: 868 words

DATELINE: NEW YORK


The United States and Cuba reached agreement Friday on a plan to halt the
seaborne exodus of illegal refugees by allowing more than 20,000 Cubans to
immigrate legally each year.

The White House said it hoped that the accord would replace the chaotic refugee
exodus with "a safer, legal and more orderly process." But U.S. officials said
the agreement would have no effect on the U.S. economic embargo against Cuba.

The deal eliminates a foreign policy headache for President Bill Clinton but
leaves almost 30,000 boat people who have already fled the country with the
choice of staying in refugee camps indefinitely or returning to Cuba to apply
for legal visas.

The agreement was initialed by negotiators on behalf of Clinton and Cuban
President Fidel Castro. It acknowledged the interests of both nations in ending
the risky flight by raft across the Straits of Florida.

Attorney General Janet Reno said the United States would admit a minimum of
20,000 Cubans a year under existing immigration authority, not including
immediate relatives of Cubans who have become U.S. citizens. An additional 4,000
to 6,000 Cubans currently on the waiting list for visas also would be allowed
in.

Currently, the 20,000 figure is an upper limit instead of a minimum, and only a
few thousand Cubans have actually been allowed to immigrate each year.

"The aim is to identify Cubans who have strong reasons for seeking exit from
Cuba . . . and have U.S. sponsors," Reno said.

Castro's government agreed to try to prevent unsafe departures from its shores,
"using mainly persuasive methods," and to allow some of the 35,000 Cubans who
have fled this year to return home without repercussions.

Reno said the Justice Department would announce details of immigration
procedures late next week. The department will determine which Cubans will be
eligible for "parole" status, a status that could apply to family members who
currently do not qualify for immigrant visas, officials said.

"This agreement, when carried out, will help ensure that the massive flow of
dangerous and illegal migration will be replaced by a safer, legal and more
orderly process," the administration said in a statement released in New
Orleans, where Clinton was giving a speech.

The settlement was a "fair, good agreement, good for the United States," Clinton
said at the airport as he was leaving for Washington.

The U.S. Coast Guard has picked up almost 35,000 Cuban rafters trying to reach
the Florida coast this year, most of them in the last month. It has been the
biggest exodus of Cubans since 125,000 fled to Florida in 1980.

In Havana, Cuban rafters scoffed at the accord and said they were determined to
leave whether it was legal or not.

"I'm going to Angola if I have to; I'm not staying here," said Rojelio Leyba,
29, a construction worker. "I don't have any faith in getting out legally."

But a sudden rainstorm sent Cubans working on raft scurrying for shelter.

In the U.S.-Cuba talks in New York on Friday, Cuba agreed that arrangements
could be made through diplomatic channels for the repatriation of "those Cubans
who have recently left and wish to return."

Refugees intercepted at sea by American naval forces have been taken to the U.S.
Navy base at Guantanamo Bay, Cuba. They have not been allowed to enter the
United States. Some were sent to U.S.-run camps in Panama this week to relieve
conditions at Guantanamo Bay, which also houses about 15,000 Haitian refugees.

Reno said the Cuban refugees now at camps at Guantanamo would remain ineligible
for legal immigration to the United States. Their only options will be to stay
at Guantanamo or other U.S.-run havens in the region, or to return to Cuba
proper, she said.

Speaking at the same news conference with Reno in Washington, Peter Tarnoff, the
undersecretary of state, said the agreement had no effect on the U.S. economic
embargo against Cuba. And he repeated the U.S. claim that Castro was to blame
for the current crisis. "This crisis happened primarily because the people of
Cuba are losing hope that their lives are likely to improve any time soon,"
Tarnoff said.

In New York, Michael McCurry, the State Department spokesman, said: "There will
be no further talks about the embargo until we see a pattern of political and
economic reform and Castro is aware of that."

Castro blames the embargo for the economic hardship that is causing Cubans to
flee.

U.S. officials were eager to avoid a repeat of the Mariel boatlift of 125,000
Cuban refugees in 1980, which placed a severe strain on Florida and other
Southern states.

Ricardo Alarcon, the chief Cuban negotiator, would not say how Cuba would stop
the exodus, except by persuasion. "We will try to move as much as possible by
peaceful persuasion methods and to avoid as much as possible any enforceable
style," he said in a television interview.

The deal was reached at a final three-hour session of talks at the U.S. Mission
to the United Nations between Alarcon and U.S. Deputy Assistant Secretary of
State Michael Skol. The talks had resumed Friday after having been suspended on
Wednesday, when both sides returned to their capitals for consultations.

LOAD-DATE: September 11, 1994

LANGUAGE: English

                  Copyright 1994 St. Louis Post-Dispatch, Inc.


                              287 of 308 DOCUMENTS

                       St. Louis Post-Dispatch (Missouri)

                September 10, 1994, SATURDAY, FIVE STAR Edition

U.S. AND CUBA REACH ACCORD ON IMMIGRATION

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 1A

LENGTH: 889 words

DATELINE: NEW YORK


The United States and Cuba reached agreement Friday on a plan to halt the
seaborne exodus of illegal refugees by allowing more than 20,000 Cubans to
immigrate legally each year.

The White House said it hoped that the accord would replace the chaotic refugee
exodus with "a safer, legal and more orderly process." But U.S. officials said
the agreement would have no effect on the U.S. economic embargo against Cuba.

The deal eliminates a foreign policy headache for President Bill Clinton but
leaves the boat people who have already fled the country with the choice of
staying in refugee camps indefinitely or returning to Cuba to apply for legal
visas.

The agreement was initialed by negotiators on behalf of Clinton and Cuban
President Fidel Castro. It acknowledged the interests of both nations in ending
the risky flight by raft across the Straits of Florida.

Attorney General Janet Reno said the United States would admit a minimum of
20,000 Cubans a year under existing immigration authority. That's in addition to
immediate relatives of Cubans who have become U.S. citizens and an additional
4,000 to 6,000 Cubans currently on the waiting list for visas.

Currently, the 20,000 figure is an upper limit instead of a minimum, and only a
few thousand Cubans have actually been allowed to immigrate each year.

"The aim is to identify Cubans who have strong reasons for seeking exit from
Cuba . . . and have U.S. sponsors," Reno said.

U.S. officials said the more than 24,000 Cubans detained at the Guantanamo Naval
Base in Cuba would not be allowed to apply for immigrant status. "There will be
no processing of any kind," said Michael Skol, the chief U.S. delegate to the
talks.

Under the agreement, Castro's government agreed to try to prevent unsafe
departures from its shores - "using mainly persuasive methods" - and to allow
some of the 35,000 Cubans who have fled this year to return home without
repercussions.

Cuba's chief negotiator, Ricardo Alarcon, was in an upbeat mood in discussing
the accord on "McNeil-Lehrer NewsHour" on PBS. "We think that we will succeed .
. . in persuading people not to try to travel in an unsafe manner," he said.

Reno said the Justice Department would announce details of immigration
procedures late next week. The department will determine which Cubans will be
eligible for "parole" status, a status that could apply to family members who
currently do not qualify for immigrant visas, officials said.

"This agreement, when carried out, will help ensure that the massive flow of
dangerous and illegal migration will be replaced by a safer, legal and more
orderly process," the administration said in a statement released in New
Orleans, where Clinton was giving a speech.

The settlement was a "fair, good agreement, good for the United States," Clinton
said at the airport as he was leaving for Washington.

The U.S. Coast Guard has picked up almost 35,000 Cuban rafters trying to reach
the Florida coast this year, most of them in the past month. It has been the
biggest exodus of Cubans since 125,000 fled to Florida in 1980.

In Havana, Cuba said Friday that it would stop further departures from midday
Tuesday, even if force had to be used.

A statement issued on state-run media gave rafters 72 hours from midday Saturday
to clear up rafts or raft material gathered on beaches.

The statement said that during the 72-hour period, persuasion would be used to
try to stop people from leaving. During this period, no arrests will be made of
rafters, nor will their vessels or boat material be confiscated, the statement
said.

After the deadline, departures will be stopped, even if force has to be used,
and raft materials found on or near the seaside will be confiscated, it said.

Cuban rafters scoffed at the accord and said they were determined to leave
whether it was legal or not. "I'm going to Angola if I have to; I'm not staying
here," said Rojelio Leyba, 29, a construction worker. "I don't have any faith in
getting out legally."

But a sudden rainstorm sent Cubans working on raft scurrying for shelter, and
only 86 Cubans had been picked up at sea by the Coast Guard by midafternoon.

In the U.S.-Cuba talks in New York on Friday, Cuba agreed that arrangements
could be made through diplomatic channels for the repatriation of "those Cubans
who have recently left and wish to return."

Reno said the Cuban refugees now at Guantanamo would remain ineligible for legal
immigration to the United States. Their only options will be to stay at
Guantanamo or other U.S.-run havens in the region, or to return to Cuba proper,
she said.

Speaking at the same news conference with Reno in Washington, Peter Tarnoff, the
undersecretary of state, said the agreement had no effect on the U.S. economic
embargo against Cuba. And he repeated the U.S. claim that Castro was to blame
for the current crisis. "This crisis happened primarily because the people of
Cuba are losing hope that their lives are likely to improve any time soon,"
Tarnoff said.

In New York, Michael McCurry, the State Department spokesman, said: "There will
be no further talks about the embargo until we see a pattern of political and
economic reform and Castro is aware of that."

Castro blames the embargo for the economic hardship that is causing Cubans to
flee.

LOAD-DATE: September 11, 1994

LANGUAGE: English

                  Copyright 1994 St. Louis Post-Dispatch, Inc.


                              288 of 308 DOCUMENTS

                       St. Louis Post-Dispatch (Missouri)

                 September 13, 1994, TUESDAY, FIVE STAR Edition

THE CUBAN CRISIS IS OVER - FOR NOW

SECTION: EDITORIAL; Pg. 14B

LENGTH: 430 words


The two old foes, the United States and Cuba, reached an agreement on their
respective refugee crises on Friday. Neither country could afford to let the
exodus continue. So Cuba dropped its insistence that the bilateral discussions
be expanded to include the lifting of the embargo. Rapidly thereafter, the
United States indicated that it would accept roughly 20,000 legal Cuban
immigrants a year. That's essentially the same deal the United States made after
the Mariel boatlift in 1980 when 125,000 Cubans came to the United States over
five months.

The pressure to resolve the refugee crisis was felt on all sides. Cuban leader
Fidel Castro had to be mortified that thousands of Cubans, prevented from
entering the United States, still preferred a tent city on Guantanamo naval base
to home. Mr. Castro needs the invisible safety valve that legal immigration
allows; he also needs the dollars from Cuban-Americans that have been halted by
the crisis.

For its part, the United States faced the very real prospect of violent conflict
erupting at its overcrowded base at Guantanamo Bay, not to mention the search to
find other countries willing to accept the Cubans. Besides, the Clinton
administration, which is apparently preparing to invade Haiti, needs but one
Caribbean crisis at a time.

The Clinton administration had no choice but to reopen the channels of legal
immigration and live up to past promises. That is the proper and moral thing to
do. In contrast to its stated policy, the United States should also give the
Cubans already at Guantanamo priority in emigrating.

With this agreement, though, the United States has once again established a
double standard in its treatment of Haitians and Cubans. Given the brutal and
overt political repression in Haiti, why is there no deal to accept 20,000
Haitians a year? Instead, when the emperor's clothes are stripped away, the
Haitian refugee crisis is the underlying reason the United States may invade
Haiti.

The troubled waters between Cuba and the Florida coast may be smoothed over for
the time being. But the Clinton administration has forfeited the opportunity to
contribute to substantial change in Cuba. The United States could have put a
brake on Cuban immigration by lifting the embargo and beginning a process of
normalization. It could have sought to encourage political openness and economic
reform. Instead Mr. Castro has his safety valve back in place. The discontented
may now be peacefully siphoned off while Mr. Castro continues the policies that
have driven his country to ruin.

LOAD-DATE: September 14, 1994

LANGUAGE: English

TYPE: EDITORIAL

                  Copyright 1994 St. Louis Post-Dispatch, Inc.


                              289 of 308 DOCUMENTS

                       St. Louis Post-Dispatch (Missouri)

                 September 30, 1994, FRIDAY, FIVE STAR Edition

CUBANS WANT FREEDOM, NOT WELFARE

BYLINE: David R. Henderson

SECTION: EDITORIAL; Pg. 13D

LENGTH: 783 words

COMMENTARY COLUMN


Start with two principles. First, no one has the right to force us to pay for
immigrants to the United States. Second, no one has the right to prevent people
from escaping tyranny. Any just system of laws must adhere to these principles.
The principles do not contradict each other. But the defenders of the welfare
state have forced us to choose between them. In doing so, they have shown how
truly corrupt the welfare state is.

What makes responsible Cubans risk their lives and their children's by crossing
the ocean in fragile rafts? Did they just hear about our food stamps and
generous unemployment benefits? Hardly. Those aren't worth risking life and
limb.

So what do Cubans want? One thing. Freedom. The freedom to live in a relatively
peaceful society where it is not (yet) a crime to work to feed one's family. The
vast majority of our ancestors who immigrated to the United States got no
welfare when they arrived here. It's not what they came for. It's not what the
vast majority of Cubans want either.

But, some say, people leaving Cuba want just to escape poverty, not communism.
How could we tell? Communism causes mass poverty everywhere it is tried. And why
does it matter? These desperate refugees didn't reach their conclusions about
the effects of communism as the result of a college bull session. They object to
communism because of the horrendous human suffering that it has caused them.

Our welfare state and its leaders, in particular, President Bill Clinton and
Florida's governor Lawton Chiles, give us a choice. Either we let Cubans escape
tyranny and come to the United States, in which case we must subsidize them, or
we refuse to subside their living here, in which case the government intervenes
to prevent Cubans from coming.

Because Chiles is, appropriately, concerned about spending Florida taxpayers'
money on new immigrants, he wants to prevent them from coming. And Clinton
apparently agrees. He persuaded Fidel Castro to forcibly prevent Cubans from
emigrating.

Note the irony. Clinton leads one of the freest countries in the world, a
country built on the idea that each person has inalienable rights that no
government can violate. He persuades the leader of a totalitarian government to
re-adopt a policy that most clearly distinguishes free states from slave ones.
The judges in the Dred Scott decision would have been proud of their willing
student.

How did we reach a point where a governor concerned about spending lobbies a
U.S. president to consign people to tyranny? The cause was our inhumane welfare
state. The recent debate about the Cubans points up its absolute moral
bankruptcy.

We often think of the welfare state as benevolent, the institutional equivalent
of a kind uncle who bought you ice cream. It's not.

The comparison is unfair to the uncle. The uncle was willingly spending his own
money. The welfare state, by contrast, uses taxes to grab other people's money.
And even when the uncle is short of money, he lets you out to spend your own
money if you have it. He doesn't lock you in a closet.

The welfare state does the equivalent of locking you in a closet. Instead of
letting the Cubans decide whether they want to come here unsubsidized, it locks
them in Cuba. The main people responsible are the welfare-rights activists who
sued to achieve this result and the judges who decided in their favor.

Notice also the awkward position that Clinton has put our military in. He has
ordered the military to pick up Cubans who are trying to leave their island hell
to come here. His policies, like those of former President George Bush, require
the military to use force against innocent foreigners, rather than engage in
their only proper duty under the Constitution, which is to defend the United
States from foreign enemies.

There's a simple solution. First, end our embargo against Cuba. The embargo
hurts politically powerless Cubans most and sends them a mixed message about
what our society is all about. On the one hand, we trumpet freedom; on the other
hand, our government does not allow us one of the most basic freedoms of all -
the right to trade. By instead letting innocent, joyous capitalism prevail, we
would drive a stake in Castro's monstrous dictatorship.

Second, allow in all the Cubans who want to come, on one condition: that for 20
years they forswear all the trappings of the welfare state - food stamps,
welfare and unemployment benefits.

Remember the words of Emma Lazarus, the young daughter of Jewish immigrants,
inscribed at the base of the Statue of Liberty. She talks of aspiring immigrants
as "huddled masses yearning to breathe free." Not yearning for food stamps.

LOAD-DATE: October 1, 1994

LANGUAGE: English

                  Copyright 1994 St. Louis Post-Dispatch, Inc.


                              290 of 308 DOCUMENTS

                       St. Louis Post-Dispatch (Missouri)

                  October 6, 1994, THURSDAY, FIVE STAR Edition

A MERGING U.S.-LATIN COMMUNITY

BYLINE: Dempster K. Holland

SECTION: EDITORIAL; Pg. 7B

LENGTH: 939 words

COMMENTARY COLUMN


One of the ironies of the Clinton administration's place in history is that it
may be known more for a foreign policy development than for a domestic
development.    And the foreign development may be a surprising one: the
beginning of the integration of the North American and Caribbean countries into
one society. The North American Free Trade Agreement treaty is only one part of
this massive change, although an important part.

We are seeing the culmination of several decades of activity, starting primarily
with the Immigration Act of 1965. The essence of what is happening in the 1990s
is the order of magnitude of the change.

Take Cuba, for example. There are 11 million residents of Cuba, and about 1
million Cubans in Florida. This means that nearly 10 percent of Cubans now live
in the United States.

Or Mexico. There are 92 million residents of Mexico; nearly 13 million people of
Mexican descent live in the United States; 10 percent of Mexicans now live in
the United States. Comparable movements have occurred from the Dominican
Republic, Haiti, Jamaica, Guatemala and Nicaragua.

Caribbean immigrants now have some political influence on American foreign
policy, just as in the early and middle 20th centuries, European immigrants
influenced our foreign policy with Europe. Florida's Cuban community is the most
visible example.

The cultural incursions of the United States into Mexico and the Caribbean are
striking. In Monterey, northern Mexico's major city, a shopping center with J.C.
Penney and Dillard's is opening. Cruise ships in the Bahamas and other West
Indies islands bring a large influx of U.S. citizens, who speak English, desire
American food and spread U.S. customs. The Miami Herald circulates throughout
the Caribbean.

Mexico has become a favorable retirement spot for Americans. A Jamaican
descendent (Colin Powell) led us to victory in the Persian Gulf War; two Mexican
descendants (Henry Cisneros and Federico Pena) sit in the U.S. Cabinet. And, of
course, major integration is occurring in that great swatch of "Mexamerica,"
from Texas to California on the U.S. side and encompassing the border states of
Mexico on the southern side.    Manufacturing and trade - labor and capital -
are turning this area into one of the continent's leading business sectors.
There is talk of augmenting Texas' interstate highway system to serve northern
Mexico more adequately.

Nearly 10 percent of Americans consider themselves Hispanic. And since there is
a quite high rate of intermarriage with non-Hispanics, by the next generation as
many as one-fifth of all Americans may have one or more grandparents born south
of the border, with first or second cousins in a Caribbean nation.

It is clear that, socially, culturally and economically, the United States and
the Mexico-Caribbean areas will more and more become one.

Politically, this bodes well for democracy in the southern countries. A growing
middle class and a growing familiarity with American democracy should make
residents of these areas less likely to put up with authoritarian rule. And
indeed, in Mexico and Nicaragua, dictators are gone; Costa Rica has long had a
thriving democracy; the Dominican Republic has joined the ranks of democracy.

In Cuba, the old ways are still entrenched. When Fidel Castro passes from the
scene, Cuba will have an opportunity to create a more modern, democratic
society, aided by a resort construction boom that will last for decades.

For the American worker, the economic integration will unfortunately be an
adverse development; as wages increase south of the border, they will tend to
decline north of the border. But it is no longer "us" or "them," for many of
"us" will be "them.

If workers are to maintain decent incomes, North American-wide unions will be
needed to try to equalize and upgrade wage scales throughout the area.

Nineteenth-century America incorporated one-quarter of Mexico into our nation,
almost decided to annex Cuba and did take over Puerto Rico. Military
intervention in the 20th century was generally for selfish, not altruistic,
reasons. The last decade has seen a change.

The net effect of the Grenada, Panama and Haiti invasions is that the united
States has taken on the role of guaranteeing democracy in the Caribbean region.
In the first two instances, and presumably in the third, the United States has
restored a popularly elected government and then, so far as we know, has
withdrawn from the exercise of further power.

There is thus being created a new federation, one in which the other countries
exercise political sovereignty, but with their political rights guaranteed by
the United States. The U.S. guarantee can extend only to smaller countries,
those where the incursion by several divisions would be sufficient to carry the
day.

In the larger countries, such as Cuba and Mexico, military intervention would
not be tolerated by the American public, since such intervention would entail a
substantially larger troop force. These countries must seek democracy on their
own, as Mexico has and as we hope post-Castro Cuba will.

In his address preceding the Haiti crisis, Clinton vowed to extend "life,
liberty and the pursuit of happiness" to Haiti and by extension to the Caribbean
region. Provided that the United States, in fact, limits its efforts to the
restoration of democracy where necessary and does not fall to the temptation of
political imperialism, this is a valid role for our country and one that may
finally secure the proper balance in the relations between the United States and
other Caribbean nations.

LOAD-DATE: October 7, 1994

LANGUAGE: English

GRAPHIC: GRAPHIC; Graphic/sketch shows hand emerging from SW/USA to grasp hand
emerging from central America - no written caption.

                  Copyright 1994 St. Louis Post-Dispatch, Inc.


                              291 of 308 DOCUMENTS

                       St. Louis Post-Dispatch (Missouri)

                 November 3, 1994, THURSDAY, FIVE STAR Edition

10,000 STUDENTS WALK OUT OVER ANTI-IMMIGRATION MEASURE

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 15A

LENGTH: 542 words

DATELINE: LOS ANGELES


Thousands of students walked out of Southern California classrooms Wednesday to
protest a ballot initiative that would bar illegal immigrants from public
schools.

Forums, rallies and demonstrations opposing Proposition 187 were held from Los
Angeles south to San Diego, many involving Hispanic students who say they
believe the anti-immigration measure on Tuesday's ballot is racist.

The Los Angeles Unified School District, the nation's second-largest, estimated
that as many as 10,000 students walked out of 32 middle and high schools.

Shel Erlich, a district spokesman, described the protests as "mostly peaceful
walking in the neighborhoods." But in suburban Compton, 10 miles south of
downtown, about 1,000 people took part in protests that turned violent.

Foley Trailing In Washington State

Thomas S. Foley is spending three times as much as in previous campaigns. He's
touting his clout as House speaker. And yet, he still finds himself in a dead
heat with Republican George Nethercutt, who is making his first run for office.

A poll published Sunday in The Spokesman-Review newspaper showed Nethercutt with
46 percent and Foley 44 percent, with 10 percent undecided in the Washington
state district.

Clinton Stumps Against GOP

In Pawtucket, R.I., President Bill Clinton picked at cracks in Republican armor
on Social Security before an audience of the elderly.

"Some of you find it hard to believe that anybody, even a conservative
Republican, would propose a plan that would cut Social Security benefits,"
Clinton said at the Portuguese Social Club here. "It's hard to believe, but it's
true."

The president recited various GOP candidates' past and present musings on
whether to privatize Social Security, make it voluntary, phase it out or raise
the retirement age.

Farm Subsidies A Target?

The White House and some Farm Belt Democrats say they have uncovered a "secret"
Republican plan to sharply reduce federal farm subsidies.

Senate Minority Leader Bob Dole, R-Kan., called the claim a campaign "scare
tactic." But he stopped short of saying that no attempt would be made to trim
farm subsidies next year.

On NBC's "Meet the Press" on Sunday, Republican strategist William Kristol said
in response to how the GOP would cut waste, "Farm subsidies, I'd be perfectly
happy to phase out, and I think Bob Dole, you'll see next year, who comes from a
farm state, will take a courageous position and look at radically reducing farm
subsidies."

At the White House, presidential adviser George Stephanopoulos called the idea
the natural result of Republican campaign promises.

GOP Suspects Rostenkowski

In Chicago, a Republican group asked the Justice Department Wednesday to assign
federal marshals to Rep. Dan Rostenkowski's district to assure a fair election
next week.

The United Republican Fund, in a letter to Attorney General Janet Reno, said the
marshals should be assigned to polling places where there are no Republican
judges.

A spokesman for the group said there was a danger of voter fraud. Rostenkowski
is seeking his 19th term. He is the former chairman of the House Ways and Means
Committee, and he has been indicted on 17 criminal counts of embezzlement, fraud
and witness-tampering.

LOAD-DATE: November 4, 1994

LANGUAGE: English

                  Copyright 1994 St. Louis Post-Dispatch, Inc.


                              292 of 308 DOCUMENTS

                       St. Louis Post-Dispatch (Missouri)

                  December 9, 1994, Friday, FIVE STAR Edition

SUMMIT OF AMERICAS MAY BE CONTENTIOUS; CUBA, IMMIGRATION REMAIN THORNY ISSUES

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 15D

LENGTH: 564 words

DATELINE: MIAMI


Leaders of Western Hemisphere nations gathering here for what President Bill
Cinton hopes will be mainly talks about inter-American trade are expected to
raise some uncomfortable issues.

Among them: Cuba, U.S. immigration policy, the drug trade and the environment.

The weekend Summit of the Americas - including 34 of the Western Hemisphere's
heads of state and excluding only Cuba - gets under way Friday evening with
Clinton's formal greeting of the leaders and a ceremonial dinner.

Participants agreed to make free trade the focal point for the summit, the first
such gathering since 1967. Clinton wants to keep the momentum going from his
recent successes in pursuing open markets around the world.

But the Miami Herald quoted Mexico's new president, Ernesto Zedillo Thursday as
saying he will try to get summit presidents to repudiate California's
Proposition 187, the referendum that which would deny education and health
services to undocumented aliens.

That would upset Clinton administration plans to keep the contentious subject
off the agenda, even though the president himself campaigned against the
proposition.

Assistant Secretary of State Alec Watson declined to say how Clinton might
respond to Zedillo's idea. "He's free to raise any issue he wants," he said.

Cuba, another non-agenda, may put the United States at odds with some Latin
governments, though not all. Argentine President Carlos Menem, a strong critic
of Cuban President Fidel Castro, said Thursday that he will make sure the summit
discusses democracy in Cuba "even if I have to struggle alone."

Chile's President Eduardo Frei said Clinton was right to exclude Cuba from the
summit on grounds it is the only nation in the hemisphere without democracy. But
he reiterated Chile's opposition, shared by some other Latin nations, to the
longstanding U.S. trade embargo against Cuba and said he expected at least
informal discussion of the subject.

The White House is billing the summit as the capstone of a U.S. trade
liberalization effort that included the North American Free Trade Agreement
among Mexico, the United States and Canada,  last year, followed by the
Asia-Pacific trade conference last month and congressional approval this month
of the 123-nation General Agreement on Tariffs and Trade.

Clinton, who has embraced free trade on the theory that new international
markets will create U.S. jobs, said the United States "will not succeed and we
will never restore stability to the lives of the working people of our country
until we have more folks buying what we sell."

"Some say the answer is to try to just hunker down within our borders. That is
clearly not an option. No country can escape the global economy," he said before
leaving Washington.

By 2005, Canada, the United States and its Latin and Caribbean neighbors will
comprise a $ 13 trillion market with more than 850 million people, according to
U.S. projections that also show the United States stands to gain 2.5 million
jobs.

In Miami, the summit leaders are expected to endorse a hemisphere-wide
free-trade arrangement by 2005 - an earlier timetable than the recent agreement
by Asia-Pacific partners to create free trade by 2020.

In addition, Clinton and the presidents of Mexico and Canada are expected to
announce the launching of negotiations with Chile as the next member of NAFTA.

LOAD-DATE: December 10, 1994

LANGUAGE: English

                  Copyright 1994 St. Louis Post-Dispatch, Inc.


                              293 of 308 DOCUMENTS

                       St. Louis Post-Dispatch (Missouri)

                 December 27, 1994, Tuesday, FIVE STAR Edition

UNSOLVED MYSTERIES

SECTION: EDITORIAL; Pg. 6B

LENGTH: 205 words


Do law enforcement agencies fail to pursue justice when foreign-born journalists
are murdered in the the United States? The Committee to Protect Journalists
raised that question in a recent report that told how employees of
foreign-language media were murdered and their cases investigated
half-heartedly.

Twelve journalists were murdered in the United States during the 1980s; 10 were
immigrants. Eight of the cases remain unsolved. "If 10 white American reporters
had been killed in cold blood on U.S. soil, the shock waves would have
galvanized the media and law enforcement officials," said Ana Arana, principal
researcher of the report. She charged that in many cases the homicides were
"deliberate, coldly coordinated acts of terrorism" that failed to attract the
attention of mainstream reporters because the issues weren't deemed important.

Law enforcement officials often do not coordinate the efforts well in such
cases, the report said. A greater problem is the lack of understanding of the
immigrant community, where language and customs may be unfamiliar.

Attorney General Janet Reno has vowed renewed investigations. In this nation of
immigrants, the so-called immigrant press should not be dismissed.

LOAD-DATE: December 28, 1994

LANGUAGE: English

TYPE: EDITORIAL

                  Copyright 1994 St. Louis Post-Dispatch, Inc.


                              294 of 308 DOCUMENTS

                       St. Louis Post-Dispatch (Missouri)

                 December 29, 1994, Thursday, FIVE STAR Edition

EXODUS; PEOPLE LEAVING ILLINOIS RAPIDLY; 64,000 FEWER RESIDENTS

BYLINE: Kevin McDermott Of the Copley News Service

SECTION: ILLINOIS; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 690 words


New babies and foreign immigrants are keeping up their end of the population
game in Illinois. But other Illinoisans continue to leave in droves, as sleepy
Rocky Mountain states drain away population from former urban powerhouses
throughout the country.

Put simply: About 64,000 more Americans this year moved out of the Land of
Lincoln than moved in.

That's the conclusion of new federal census numbers, which show that Illinois is
losing a higher percentage of its residents to other regions of the country than
all but a handful of states.

The sixth most populous state in America, Illinois had a small net gain in
population this year, but no thanks to its neighboring states. Illinois had
among the lowest rate of "domestic migration" in the country, according to new
census figures released by the U.S. Department of Commerce Tuesday.

With a domestic migration rate of negative .5 of a percent, Illinois now is
ranked 45th as a destination for Americans who are moving from one state to
another. Only California, New York, Rhode Island, Connecticut and Hawaii are
losing their existing residents at a faster rate.

"There's no question about it: Illinois has had a migration that is feeding
other states," said Department of Commerce statistician Edwin Byerly, who
compiled the new report. "It still has a fairly strong rate of international
immigration, but it's on the other end of the spectrum for domestic behavior."

In fact, all that has kept Illinois from losing net population this year was an
unusually high birth rate, a modest death rate, and significant foreign
immigration.

"We don't know all the motivators . . . but generally, there are economic
factors," said Byerly, noting that the big winners in the migration game are
western states such as Arizona and Colorado, while California is the biggest
loser.

"There are trends that have been going on for years with people moving west," he
said. "Now, they're just moving to different parts of the West."

A spokesman for Gov. Jim Edgar stressed that the phenomenon isn't unique to
Illinois.

"The trend for decades is that the population growth in the U.S. is in the
western states," said spokesman Eric Robinson.

He added that among industrial northern states, Illinois fares much better in
most census figures. "We believe the reason for that is that the economy is
better here," he said.

Among the data in the new report:

Illinois' estimated population as of July 1, 1994, was 11,752,000, keeping the
No. 6 post it has held for several years.

The state's population currently is about 300,000 behind No. 5, Pennsylvania,
and about 19.7 million behind the national leader, California.

Number two in the country this year is Texas, passing New York, which drops to
third. Florida is fourth.

Illinois ranked 39th in the country in rate of population increase. The state
gained a net total of about 66,000 people between July 1, 1993, and July 1, 1994
- a statistical drop in the bucket, representing only a .6 of a percent increase
in population.

By comparison, western states were gaining population at rates of between 2 and
more than 5 percent.

Percentages aside, Illinois is losing to much smaller states even in real
numbers. The most glaring example is Nevada, which has about one-eighth the
population of Illinois, but gained a total of 75,000 new residents - almost
10,000 more bodies than Illinois gained.

The loss of Illinois residents to other states has been somewhat offset by
internal population factors.

Roughly 190,000 babies were born here between July 1993 and July 1994, a 1.6
percent birth rate, ninth highest of any state. Meanwhile, only 108,000
Illinoisans died, a death rate of .9 percent (23rd in the nation). That
translates into a net gain of 82,000 people.

Only two states - South Dakota and West Virginia - had more deaths than births.

Foreign immigration brought another population boon to Illinois. The state had a
.4 of a percent foreign immigration rate, sixth highest of any state. In all,
roughly 48,000 people arrived in Illinois from other countries between July 1993
and July 1994.

LOAD-DATE: December 30, 1994

LANGUAGE: English

                  Copyright 1994 St. Louis Post-Dispatch, Inc.


                              295 of 308 DOCUMENTS

                       St. Louis Post-Dispatch (Missouri)

                 February 12, 1995, Sunday, THREE STAR Edition

MISSOURI COLLEGE HAS LATINO CHIEF; 'I WASN'T EVEN A CITIZEN,' HE SAYS

BYLINE: Andy Ostmeyer Of the Joplin Globe

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 4C

LENGTH: 511 words

DATELINE: JOPLIN, MO.


Julio Leon knows the phrase "Only in America" can sound trite, yet, he says, the
words ring true in his case.

Where else but in the United States, he wonders, could an immigrant ascend to
the top spot at a state-run university?

"I wasn't even a citizen at the time," he said. "I know it would just not happen
in Chile. An American would never become the president of a (state-run)
university."

Leon heads Missouri Southern State College. He was born in Ibuique, a coastal
port in northern Chile.

He says he is evidence that Hispanics can succeed by hard work and
determination. And he is seen by others as an example for the area's growing
Hispanic community.

"Dr. Leon is a real inspiration," said Jerry Edwards, director of the Migrant
Education Center of Western Missouri, in Monett. "He is an excellent role model
for the kids of our area."

It was in Ibuique that Leon became fascinated with U.S. culture.

He remembers American ships arriving at the port. As a child, he says, he played
lots of baseball, learning the American pastime from Japanese immigrants.

Orphaned at age 7, he was reared by an aunt "who was rather poor herself but who
managed to give all of us an education," he said.

In school, he studied the English language, read books in English and, when
possible, watched Hollywood movies.

"I wanted to see" the United States, he says. "I continue to be fascinated with
this country. It's just so different than anyplace else."

At the University of Santiago, he majored in English.

Leon was Chile's Carl Lewis - a three-time winner of his country's national
track title - and traveled to Chicago in 1959 for the Pan-American games as a
member of Chile's track team.

He was aiming for the 1964 Olympics in Japan until he suffered a tendon injury.

Through a contact, he soon landed a track scholarship

and, after transferring twice, got his business administration degree at North
Texas State University. He went to the University of Arkansas in Fayetteville
for his doctorate.

In the summer of 1969 he took a job as an assistant professor at Missouri
Southern State College. Four years later he became an associate professor, and
in 1976 he became dean of the college's School of Business and in 1982, it was
announced he would be the college's next president.

Along the way, Leon says, prejudice and discrimination never surfaced.

"I didn't encounter major barriers, maybe because my own environment was in
higher education," he said.

"A person must want to be a success in his or her new country," Leon said. "The
way to do that is to try and become a part of his or her host country, and if
you do that, you will be surprised at how many doors open up to you."

Leon, who has since become a U.S. citizen, predicts more immigration from
Central and South America, especially if the North American Free Trade
Agreement, or NAFTA, develops into a hemispheric-wide agreement.

"No matter where we come from - and we all come from somewhere - a person can
make a significant contribution," he said.

LOAD-DATE: February 13, 1995

LANGUAGE: English

GRAPHIC: PHOTO; Photo by AP - Julio Leon, an immigrant from northern Chile, is
president of Missouri Southern State College in Joplin.

                  Copyright 1995 St. Louis Post-Dispatch, Inc.


                              296 of 308 DOCUMENTS

                       St. Louis Post-Dispatch (Missouri)

                   March 12, 1995, Sunday, FIVE STAR Edition

IMMIGRANT SCAPEGOATS

BYLINE: Angie O'Gorman

SECTION: EDITORIAL; Pg. 3B

LENGTH: 852 words

COMMENTARY COLUMN


The Republican Contract With America proposes to bar legal permanent residents
from access to most federally funded programs. Included are child care, maternal
and child health services, foster and adoption services, food assistance,
Medicaid, SSI, screening for lead poisoning, child protection services,
emergency shelter and legal assistance programs.

The idea is that if people want to live here they should pay their way. It
sounds good.

But events like the recent death of Russian immigrant Olga Maxiaeva, killed by a
21-pound rock thrown from an overpass onto the windshield of her car, should
force us to distinguish carefully between legislation that sounds good and good
legislation.

The current proposals threaten the social fabric of our nation. They will create
uneducated, unhealthy future citizens, give tacit approval of (and therefore
increase) discrimination against foreign looking and sounding people, lead to an
impoverished immigrant population and create an enforcement role for
church-based service providers.

Let's be clear first of all about who legal permanent residents are. They are
documented. They have cooperated with immigration law and have been screened by
complex and costly procedures before receiving the legal status that allows them
to permanently reside in the United States. They pay taxes and must register for
the draft; they fight in our armed forces. Immigrants are often the spouses,
parents and children of U.S. citizens and, one day, will become citizens. Yet
the proposed legislation would punish these people who played by the rules by
penalizing, in large part, their children.

Last July, an immigrant woman died in St. Louis, leaving an infant daughter
without a surviving parent. If the proposed legislation had been in place, that
child could not have received federally funded foster care or adoption services.
Earlier in the year, a young South African man driving his taxi in north St.
Louis suffered brain damage after being assaulted by two men with baseball bats.
If the proposed legislation had been in place he would have received immediate
emergency medical treatment and nothing further.

Neither the instability of our economy nor the unaffordability of our health
care distinguishes between citizen and immigrant. An immigrant husband and
father can lose his job and ability to support his family as easily as a citizen
father. And the St. Louis community has just experienced the fact that random
violence does not distinguish between citizen and immigrant.

Supporters of the proposed legislation assert that the person who "sponsors" the
immigrant should be financially responsible for such unforeseen circumstances
until the immigrant is granted citizenship five years after receiving permanent
residence. But what happens when the sponsor is an abusive spouse, or becomes
incapacitated, or is being forced into poverty due to an unexpected health
emergency of the immigrant - even though both the sponsor and the immigrant are
taxpayers.

Neither those sponsoring the legislation nor those opposed to it are suggesting
that immigrants are a drain on the national budget or are responsible for
creating the deficit. Quite the contrary, statistics recently released by the
Urban Institute indicate that immigrants pay $ 30 billion more in taxes a year
than they use in services. And all the reliable statistics indicate immigrants
use emergency programs exactly as they were intended to be used: as short-term
measures in crisis situations. Some claim that too many immigrants are satisfied
with the status of legal permanent resident and need prompting to move on to
citizenship. But punitive, life-threatening sanctions seem an inappropriate
invitation to citizenship.

The real agenda behind this legislation seems to be scapegoating, a phenomenon
that occurs every time the U.S. economy is unstable. The poor and the immigrant
become the enemy. Everybody feels the catharsis of a good round of blaming, and
the basic problems inherent in our economic and social values are ignored.

We are fooling ourselves if we think the immigrant is the only one who will be
hurt by this legislation. People who look or sound foreign born will also bear
the brunt of anti-immigrant discrimination. Given the nativistic urge that
accompanies bad economic times, we should think twice before legally polarizing
society along the immigrant/citizen axis.

Immigrants generally have a lot to teach us about strong family life,
entrepreneurial spirit, religious values and balancing self-reliance with
respect for community. We waste this resource if we bar access to education,
health, nutrition and the resulting ability to save money. Immigrants will be
marginalized physically, mentally and financially. They will sink into long-term
poverty for the first time in our history. But if our national psyche needs to
scapegoat, the resulting legislation should, at a minimum, include exemptions
for children, taxpayers and cases of emergency beyond the immigrant's control.

Perhaps we could do this much for Olga and her family.

LOAD-DATE: March 13, 1995

LANGUAGE: English

                  Copyright 1995 St. Louis Post-Dispatch, Inc.


                              297 of 308 DOCUMENTS

                       St. Louis Post-Dispatch (Missouri)

                 February 25, 1996, Sunday, THREE STAR Edition

U.S. OFFICIALS SAY THEY'VE COLLARED NY CHINATOWN GANG

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 4A

LENGTH: 444 words

DATELINE: WASHINGTON


In raids in six states, federal agents have cracked what they believe is a
Chinese gang that terrorized New York's Chinatown and engaged in murder,
extortion, kidnaping and smuggling of aliens.

The raids Thursday and Friday in New York, New Jersey, Virginia, Delaware,
Colorado and Pennsylvania capped a yearlong investigation of the Fukienese
Flying Dragons gang. Authorities described the gang as a violent criminal
enterprise made up mostly of young men from the Chinese province of Fujian, also
known as Fukien.

Sixty-four who are alleged to be gang leaders and members were charged with a
range of violent crimes in eight federal indictments, which were unsealed in
Manhattan federal court Friday. So far, 35 have been arrested, and others are
being sought, officials said.

"This violent gang was responsible for hundreds of kidnappings, robberies, acts
of extortion, and smuggling hundreds of illegal aliens into the United States,"
Attorney General Janet Reno said.

U.S. Attorney Mary Jo White of the Southern District of New York said the gang,
"a large and violent spinoff" from the traditional Flying Dragons organization,
has been "the dominant force in Chinatown since 1990" and is the only remaining
large-scale criminal enterprise operating there.

With the latest government actions against it and other expected arrests, White
said, "we believe we will break the back of the Fukienese Flying Dragons and
that we are finally on the verge of freeing Chinatown from the . . . violence
and lawlessness that have plagued it for decades."

The main indictment, in which 41 defendants are charged with racketeering and
other criminal activity, covers two murders, one attempted murder, four
robberies, five extortions of businesses and eight kidnappings in which more
than 100 Chinese were held.

The Fukienese Flying Dragons were made up mostly of Chinese in their mid- to
late-20s who entered the United States illegally and, in some cases, claimed
political asylum to remain in the country, Immigration and Naturalization
Service officials said. The gang preyed mostly on fellow Chinese illegal aliens,
sometimes kidnaping them for ransom after having smuggled them into the country,
the indictments charged.

After a boatload of about 200 illegal Chinese aliens arrived off New Jersey in
1993, the indictments charged, the gang took more than 100 of them hostage, held
them in apartments in Chinatown and Brooklyn and forced them at gunpoint to call
their families in China to raise ransom money, usually amounting to $ 30,000
each.

The gang also allegedly organized an earlier boatload that was intercepted off
Hawaii in 1992.

LOAD-DATE: February 25, 1996

LANGUAGE: English

GRAPHIC: Photo By Jim Rackwitz/Post-Dispatch - A Big Job For One Man A lone
worker is nearly hidden in a maze of scaffolding and concrete pillars at the
site of the new St. Louis County Jail in downtown Clayton. The nine-story jail
is expected to open in mid-1997.

                  Copyright 1996 St. Louis Post-Dispatch, Inc.


                              298 of 308 DOCUMENTS

                       St. Louis Post-Dispatch (Missouri)

                   May 22, 1993, SATURDAY, THREE STAR Edition

ASIAN ALIENS ARE FORCED INTO PROSTITUTION IN NY

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 4B

LENGTH: 541 words

DATELINE: NEW YORK


A growing number of Chinese women are being forced into prostitution in New
York's Asian massage parlors because they failed to pay their passage - up to
$30,000 - to smugglers who brought them into the country.  The city's massage
parlors, once dominated by Koreans, now feature women from a dozen Asian
countries.  Many of the women are former wives of American GIs, while others say
they were lured to the United States by vicious gangs who promised quick riches.
When they cannot pay the smuggling fee through legitimate work, they are taken
to massage parlors and forced into prostitution, federal sources said.  "It used
to be nothing but Korean nationals; now we are starting to see Filipinos, Thai,
Vietnamese and Malaysian," said Norman Dion, chief of operations at the mayor's
Office of Midtown Enforcement.  William Knisely of Manhattan, a lawyer who has
represented more than 200 South Korean women arrested for prostitution, said his
typical client has one or two children and had been married to an ex-GI who
became abusive or alcoholic.  Officials said the influx of undocumented aliens
smuggled into New York from China has added another sinister aspect to the
industry.  "The people the smugglers brought in used to be 99.5 percent men; now
they are smuggling in females from China," said Charles Ferrigno, head of the
anti-smuggling unit at the Immigration and Naturalization Service's New York
office. "When they can't pay, they are pressed into the massage parlors."
Barbara Chang, head of the Asian Women Center for battered women, said that
about three years ago a Chinese woman called the group's hot line and told
counselors she was working in a midtown massage parlor and had AIDS - and that
her boss wouldn't let her stop taking clients.  "She was very afraid," Chang
said. "I suggested meeting her outside the city, but she would not meet us." The
midtown crackdowns and the growing Asian population in boroughs other than
Manhattan also have spurred the spread of sex spas beyond lower Manhattan to the
upper East Side, to Sunset Park in Brooklyn and to Elmhurst and Flushing in
Queens.  One of the clubs raided recently was Tender 54, whose ads appears with
dozens of others in the Sing Tao newspaper, a popular Chinese-language daily.
The club, on East 88th Street between First and York avenues, is only steps from
Gracie Mansion, the mayor's residence.  "Chinese guests only," says the Tender
54 ad.  A man answering the phone there told a caller that he could provide
women from Japan and South Korea. "We'll have Chinese girls next week," he said
in heavily accented English.  Charges are $30 for the 24-hour club plus tips for
the women, he said.  Other clubs advertising in the paper boast of "ladies from
Southeast Asia," "fresh Korean beauties" and "escort service available." Many of
the Korean massage parlors are owned by women who are "graduates" of other
parlors.  One is alleged to be Young Ah Kim, 29, of Manhattan, who was arrested
last June and charged with bribery, promoting prostitution, conspiracy and
unlicensed practice of massage.  Kim, the wife of a former GI in Denver, was
arrested with other five other suspected madams after they allegedly offered a
$100,000 bribe to Dion.

LOAD-DATE: October 7, 1993

LANGUAGE: English

                  Copyright 1993 St. Louis Post-Dispatch, Inc.


                              299 of 308 DOCUMENTS

                       St. Louis Post-Dispatch (Missouri)

                   August 2, 1993, MONDAY, FIVE STAR Edition

ASYLUM: COMING TO AN END?

BYLINE: Charles B. Keely

SECTION: EDITORIAL; Pg. 7B

LENGTH: 774 words

COMMENTARY COLUMN


Governments view requests for political asylum with greater skepticism and deny
them more quickly.  Are we witnessing the end of asylum from persecution? Mexico
has agreed to send back hundreds of Chinese migrants smuggled in three ships
when the United States clearly would not allow them on its soil. Ships carrying
human cargoes from China recently have landed in New York, Honduras and Guam and
their passengers have been returned at U.S. expense.  Meanwhile, New York's
Kennedy Airport has become the destination of choice for asylum seekers who
often destroy documents and are uncooperative with authorities. Nevertheless,
because they request asylum, they enter a system that takes months and years to
make a decision.  Not surprisingly, lawmakers have proposed bills to stop an
assault on the asylum system, which is meant to protect people in genuine fear
of their lives or other persecution for their religious or political beliefs,
their race or ethnicity. On July 2, the Immigration Enforcement and Asylum
Reform Act of 1993 was introduced in Congress with bipartisan support. It
combined three previous bills giving authorities the power to exclude asylum
seekers who seem to be economic migrants abusing the system and to preinspect,
in certain countries, those who seek asylum.  The United States is not alone in
reacting to a perceived assault on the asylum system in industrial countries.
Germany made access to asylum more difficult last June. Canada passed a law in
January allowing for summary exclusion of fraudulent applicants, giving them
less access than previously to administrative or judicial review. Belgium,
Austria and Switzerland earlier adopted systems to screen out manifestly
fraudulent cases. Germany and Finland introduced fingerprinting to curb multiple
applications by the same person.  Countries that introduced reforms in 1991 and
1992 report significant reductions in the levels of asylum applications. The
effects of more recent actions are not yet clear.  The recent Chinese smuggling
has led governments and the United Nations to distinguish clearly between
illegal migration and asylum. The United States and its allies are tracking up
to 40 ships in the Pacific that are equipped or already carrying human cargoes.
The U.N. High Commissioner for Refugees is instructing field personnel that
smuggled Chinese are economic migrants, not refugees. The commissioner will
screen such migrants to see whether they are refugees only if a country requests
it.  Four approaches characterize the actions taken by countries. First, there
is early triage to remove the manifestly unfounded asylum applications.  Second,
procedures are simplified to reduce time-consuming advisory opinions about human
rights and other conditions by providing training and information to officers in
the field. There are also reductions in the number of administrative and
judicial reviews.  Third, the concept of "safe-country" is employed so that
applicants from such countries have to make very good cases that they were
persecuted.  This is what the United States did when the Solidarity government
took over in Poland and non-communist governments were elected elsewhere in
Central Europe.  Finally, staff and modern technology are being increased to
reduce backlogs and ensure quicker decisions, quick enough even to permit
detention of applicants while decisions are made rather than letting them melt
into the population.  Asylum procedures, as the industrial countries have known
them, are ending.  Is that the end of asylum? Not necessarily. To deny that
asylum systems are under heavy pressure from economic migrants abusing a
humanitarian system is to bury one's head in the sand. To deny that people and
legislators feel that fraud is committed on a gargantuan scale encourages them
to do the very thing that refugee and human rights advocates fear: dismantle
asylum altogether.  Asylum will be harder to get. That is regrettable. But to
ignore the burden that fraudulent claims put on asylum systems threatens the
future of more than current efforts to correct abuse. The administration and
legislative changes will go ahead. What is needed is to work with legislators
and to monitor asylum systems to make sure that genuine refugees are not sent
back to suffer because of race, ethnicity, religion or political beliefs. That
requires accepting that abuse of asylum is taking place.  The asylum process is
fragile and in grave danger. It is built on public acceptance of the need to
protect any person, regardless of origin, who is unjustly persecuted. To
preserve asylum requires change, not denial.

LOAD-DATE: October 11, 1993

LANGUAGE: English

                  Copyright 1993 St. Louis Post-Dispatch, Inc.


                              300 of 308 DOCUMENTS

                       St. Louis Post-Dispatch (Missouri)

                  January 2, 1994, SUNDAY, THREE STAR Edition

CABAL USES BRIBES, TORTURE TO DOMINATE HUMAN SMUGGLING

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 5B

LENGTH: 1107 words

DATELINE: SAN FRANCISCO


A criminal enterprise based in Guatemala and Southern California is becoming one
of the principal organizations in the human-smuggling trade.

The cabal appears to be linked to almost every smuggling boat that has arrived
on the Pacific coast this year.

In an investigation, the San Francisco Chronicle found that the cabal was
continuing to bring in thousands of people on the treacherous journeys from
China's Fujian province in defiance of anti-smuggling efforts President Bill
Clinton announced early last year.

The syndicate, dominated by Taiwanese, is suspected of paying thousands of
dollars in bribes to government officials who aid its operations in Guatemala
and other Central American countries, according to federal agents.

In Southern California, the cabal has aligned with the Fuk Ching, a gang linked
to the beatings and torture of dozens of smuggled immigrants who have been
unable to pay their smuggling fees.

Of the handful of Taiwanese who control the enterprise, at least one is believed
to live in Southern California. At the next level are about 50 Taiwanese - some
in Guatemala, some in the United States - who run individual smuggling missions.

They are assisted by hundreds of free-lancers worldwide who perform tasks that
range from leasing ships to recruiting passengers and forging travel documents.

An Immigration and Naturalization Service official in Los Angeles said, "We're
saying (this syndicate) is responsible for about 80 to 90 percent of the
smuggling in the western part of the United States."

A profile of the group, pieced together from State Department cables and
interviews with U.S. investigators, offers the clear picture of how the brutally
efficient human-smuggling industry operates.

Among its most notorious operations were the Pai Sheng, a ship that steamed into
San Francisco Bay with about 300 passengers in May, and the Golden Venture,
which ran aground off New York in June. Ten people drowned trying to swim to
shore.

Since July, when the United States intercepted three smuggling ships off Mexico,
there has been a lull in boat smuggling incidents on the West Coast.  But in
interviews in China's Fujian province this fall, villagers told how their
relatives had been smuggled directly into California and New York in late summer
without being caught.

Investigators say the smugglers also have been coordinating air and sea
smuggling through Guatemala, El Salvador, Panama, Honduras and Belize, all U.S.
allies. INS investigators say some intelligence reports indicate that boats have
landed in Guatemala over the past two months.

According to State Department cables, Guatemala has become a hub for a
human-smuggling enterprise that spans five continents. Cables written by U.S.
Embassy officials in Guatemala in August identify about 50 Guatemalan residents
- most of them born in Taiwan - who play key roles in the operations.

The operations in Guatemala have been so effective that at least 20,000 smuggled
Chinese have come through that country into the United States, one State
Department cable estimates.

Typically, sources say, they are brought into those countries using fraudulently
obtained visas, and then are driven across Mexico to the U.S.  border. They then
dash across into Texas, Arizona or California. Few are caught.

In 1991, Guatemala suspended its consular activities in Hong Kong after
allegations surfaced that its honorary consul general, Philip Tang, had sold
transit visas to smugglers, according to a U.S. Embassy official in Guatemala.

Investigators stress that, although Guatemala is a base, the smuggling network
has routed tens of thousands of customers through other Central American
countries. The organization also has tentacles in the Dominican Republic, Russia
and Hong Kong.

Willard Myers III, a U.S. immigration lawyer, says the Guatemala organization
maintains professional alliances with other smugglers, especially a large
smuggling syndicate with branches in Brazil, Thailand and France.

In good years, Myers estimates, the syndicates earn upwards of $ 3 billion.

Typically, gang members hold the immigrants in custody until family members pay
smuggling fees of as much as $ 30,000.

Myers said the gang receives 10 percent to 18 percent of the smuggling fee for
its services.

LOAD-DATE: January 3, 1994

LANGUAGE: English

                  Copyright 1994 St. Louis Post-Dispatch, Inc.


                              301 of 308 DOCUMENTS

                       St. Louis Post-Dispatch (Missouri)

                 August 5, 1992, WEDNESDAY, THREE STAR Edition

U.N. DEMANDS INSPECTION OF BOSNIAN CAMPS ... TORTURE, DEATH OF PRISONERS; WIDELY
REPORTED

SECTION: WAR PAGE; Pg. 1B

LENGTH: 463 words


UNITED NATIONS (REST) THE SECURITY COUNCIL demanded Tuesday that warring
factions in Bosnia open their detention camps to the Red Cross for inspection.
The United Nations acted following reports that Serbs were torturing and killing
Croats and Slavic Muslims in concentration camps.  The council statement, which
came at the urging of the United States, is not binding under international law.
Warring factions in Yugoslavia have ignored U.N. cease-fire resolutions, which
are supposed to be legally binding.  The United States appeared Monday to
confirm news reports of atrocities in the detention centers. But on Tuesday, an
official said the United States could not absolutely confirm the reports.
Maj.-Gen. Lewis MacKenzie, back from leading U.N. peacekeepers at Sarajevo's
airport, said he had received complaints of atrocities in prison camps from all
factions.  He said the parties began reporting the complaints about five months
ago, and the pace of the allegations increased about two months ago.  Bosnian
Muslims and Croats claim that Serbs run 45 concentration camps holding at least
70,000 people. Serbs claim that about 40,000 of their people are currently
jailed in Muslim and Croat camps.  A report by the U.N. High Commissioner for
Refugees last week cited accounts of guards at a Serb camp in Omarska saying
they would ''not waste bullets on their detainees, who have no food, water or
shelter and who are beaten twice a day.'' On Monday, State Department Spokesman
Richard Boucher said the United States had evidence of abuses and killings at
the camps. ''We do know from our own reports, information similar to the press
reports, that Serbian forces are maintaining what they call detention centers
for Croatians and Moslems. There have been abuses, torturing and killings taking
place in those areas.'' But Tuesday, Thomas Niles, U.S. assistant secretary of
state, told a House panel that the United States could not confirm the reports.
The change of position led to heated exchanges with members of Congress and
denials that the State Department was lying in the matter.  Niles said there had
been ''a misreading'' of Boucher's statement.  ''What . . . Mr. Boucher said is
that we have seen these reports, and we're deeply concerned about them. But he
did not . . . say that we could confirm them,'' Niles said.  ''We cannot confirm
reports that these detention facilities . . . are being used for the systematic
torture and murder of people detained,'' he said.  He said that the reports
could not be confirmed until an outside party, such as the Red Cross, visits the
camps.  U.S. policy on the crisis in the former Yugoslavia has been patchy,
reflecting Washington's reluctance to become mired in what senior officials call
a ''quagmire.''

LOAD-DATE: October 12, 1993

LANGUAGE: English

                  Copyright 1992 St. Louis Post-Dispatch, Inc.


                              302 of 308 DOCUMENTS

                       St. Louis Post-Dispatch (Missouri)

                  August 5, 1992, WEDNESDAY, FIVE STAR Edition

U.N. DEMANDS THAT SERBS OPEN CAMPS

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 1A

LENGTH: 625 words


UNITED NATIONS - The Security Council demanded Tuesday that warring factions in
Bosnia open their detention camps to the Red Cross for inspection.  The United
Nations acted following reports that Serbs were torturing and killing Croats and
Slavic Muslims in concentration camps.  The council statement, which came at the
urging of the United States, is not binding under international law. Warring
factions in Yugoslavia have ignored U.N. cease-fire resolutions, which are
supposed to be legally binding.  Maj. Gen. Lewis MacKenzie, back from leading
U.N. peaceke epers at Sarajevo's airport, said all factions had complained to
him of atrocities in prison camps.  He said that the parties began reporting the
complaints about five months ago and that the pace of the allegations increased
about two months ago.  Bosnian Muslims and Croats claim that Serbs run 45
concentration camps holding at least 70,000 people. Serbs claim that about
40,000 of their people are jailed in Muslim and Croat camps.  A report by the
U.N. High Commissioner for Refugees last week cited accounts of guards at a Serb
camp in Omarska saying they would ''not waste bullets on their detainees, who
have no food, water or shelter and who are beaten twice a day.'' The United
States had lent credence to the latest accounts of Serbian concentration camps,
saying Monday that its own information corresponded with press reports of
torture and killings.  But on Tuesday, U.S. officials backed off that assertion,
stressing that they lacked actual confirmation of such atrocities because
neither American envoys nor international relief agencies had gotten into the
camps. ''We are aware, of course, of the charges that the Bosnian Serbs have
been operating what amount to death camps,'' said Thomas Niles, assistant
secretary of state for European Affairs. He spoke before a House Foreign Affairs
panel.  But, he said, ''we cannot confirm reports which were in the press this
morning and yesterday that they are being used for the systematic torture and
murder of the people detained.'' He did not deny that Serbs had committed
''atrocities.'' Niles said that the Bosnian government had claimed that Serbians
were operating 94 camps in Bosnia-Herzegovina and 11 in Serbia-Montenegro.
Niles said: ''It is an . . . almost poignant tragedy that the Serbian people,
who suffered so terribly at the hands of the Nazi occupiers of Yugoslavia . . .
are engaging in practices which are in some respects reminiscent of some of the
things that happened during the (Nazi) occupation,'' he said.  The recent
reports of atrocities in the camps have thrown a spotlight on the President
George Bush's reluctance to become involved in the Yugoslavian conflict beyond
monitoring sanctions against Serbia and ensuring delivery of humanitarian
relief.  The U.S. move at the United Nations roughly coincided with calls for
stronger American action from Democratic presidential nominee Bill Clinton and
Democrats on the House Foreign Affairs Committee.  As reminders of America's
inaction during the Nazi holocaust reverberated around Washington, the Bush
policy drew criticism on Capitol Hill and the State Department received phone
calls from the press and public around the country, officials said.  Clinton, in
a written statement issued from his campaign headquarters in Little Rock, Ark.,
urged U.N. action similar to that sought by the administration as a first step
but went further to include the possibility of using force.  Beyond gaining
access to the camps, Clinton demanded that all non-combatants be released to the
Red Cross, that any detention centers be closed immediately and that military
prisoners of war be held under conditions defined by international law.

LOAD-DATE: October 12, 1993

LANGUAGE: English

                  Copyright 1992 St. Louis Post-Dispatch, Inc.


                              303 of 308 DOCUMENTS

                       St. Louis Post-Dispatch (Missouri)

                  August 20, 1994, SATURDAY, FIVE STAR Edition

INSTANT CAMP HOLDS CUBANS; 500 ARE IN CUSTODY IN FLORIDA UNDER NEW POLICY

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 4A

LENGTH: 504 words

DATELINE: KEY WEST, FLA.


Hundreds of Cubans who braved the open sea on homemade rafts and boats found
themselves in custody Friday, detained at a hastily built camp after a reversal
of U.S. policy.

About 500 refugees were held overnight at a Coast Guard station in Key West
under the new policy barring their release to relatives or sponsors.

On Friday morning, they were bused to the Krome immigration detention center
west of Miami, where workers erected tents to house them, said Lemar Wooley, a
spokesman for the Immigration and Naturalization Service.

"We're talking detention until their status is determined," Wooley said.

Wooley said Krome would be the only detention center for new Cuban refugees who
reach Florida. The Coast Guard was ordered to take refugees it picks up at sea
to a tent city under construction at the U.S. naval base at Guantanamo Bay,
Cuba.

One refugee who made the 90-mile crossing wept when he was told that he was
among the last Cubans to be freed before the policy was changed.

With tears streaming down his cheeks, Benjamin Brenan embraced his 11-year-old
son at the Cuban Refugee Transit Center near Key West.

"Thank God!" said Brenan, 38. "Can you believe it, son? We made it! We made it!
We're free."

Barely an hour after President Bill Clinton officially announced Friday that the
United States would detain Cuban rafters, dozens of the flimsy craft were
bobbing away undeterred from Havana, cheered on by an enthusiastic crowd.

Judging from the reactions of about 20 people interviewed Friday at Cojimar, the
main point of departure in Havana for illegal escapees, the young and the
restless will continue to flee - even if they are detained at Guantanamo or
camps in Florida.

But in Key West, relatives of refugees who will be detained denounced Clinton
for changing the policy that had given Cubans preferential treatment over
refugees from other nations.

"We have been betrayed," said Leticia Ramos, who waited overnight in Key West in
vain for two cousins who left Cuba by raft Wednesday.

Clinton's decision to change the Cuban admission policy, in effect since 1966,
came after a rising tide of Cuban refugees raised the fear of a replay of the
Mariel boatlift in 1980, when about 125,000 Cubans overwhelmed law enforcement,
schools and social service agencies.

Florida deployed 60 state troopers to the Keys to help enforce the new detention
policy.

The Cuban transit center, a volunteer processing agency that had been the scene
of emotional reunions between hundreds of refugees and their families all week,
was almost empty. Arturo Cobo, the center's director, put his arm around the
shoulder of one of the last 17 Cuban refugees turned over to the agency for
release to relatives in south Florida. He predicted that the administration's
new policy would fail to stop more refugees like them from attempting the
dangerous journey.

"They prefer to die in the Straits of Florida, eaten by sharks or live in an
American prison, than to stay in Cuba," Cobo said.

LOAD-DATE: August 21, 1994

LANGUAGE: English

                  Copyright 1994 St. Louis Post-Dispatch, Inc.


                              304 of 308 DOCUMENTS

                       St. Louis Post-Dispatch (Missouri)

                  August 26, 1994, FRIDAY, THREE STAR Edition

GUANTANAMO TO GET 9,000 MORE TROOPS TO CARE FOR CUBAN REFUGEES

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 3A

LENGTH: 603 words

DATELINE: WASHINGTON


Thousands more U.S. soldiers will be sent to Guantanamo Bay Naval Station to run
detention camps for Cuban boat people, and the set-up costs alone may reach $
100 million, Pentagon officials said Thursday.

As many as 9,000 extra soldiers are likely to go, joining the roughly 3, 000
already there as the United States rushes to expand the refugee camp capacity at
Guantanamo to as many as 60,000 people.

Meanwhile, the United States rejected Cuban calls for talks, blasted President
Fidel Castro as the leader of a failed government and pleaded with Cubans to
stop their largest seagoing exodus in 14 years.

Dennis Boxx, a Pentagon spokesman, said the cost of setting up the Cuban camps
was expected to be about $ 100 million. It will cost about $ 20 million a month
- or $ 15 a day for each Cuban refugee - to run the camps, counting only the
cost of food, water and other consumable supplies, Boxx said.

The Pentagon said that about 5,500 Cuban boat people already had been taken to
Guantanamo, in southeastern Cuba, and that more than 7,000 more were aboard U.S.
Navy and Coast Guard ships headed there. On Thursday, 49 of the Cubans who made
it across the Straits of Florida to detention on U.S. shores were taken to an
immigration facility at Port Isabel in southern Texas - the first movement
outside Florida.

Since President Bill Clinton changed a 28-year policy of welcoming Cuban boat
people last Friday, all those picked up at sea have been sent to Guantanamo
indefinitely, with no possibility of applying for asylum in the United States.

Marine Corps Lt. Gen. John Sheehan said the base's refugee capacity would be
expanded to between 40,000 and 60,000 as quickly as possible. Currently the base
accommodates about 14,500 Haitian refugees on an unused air strip.

U.S. troops are building quarters for the Cubans at Camp Bulkeley, a few miles
east of the Haitian camps, and they plan to put some Cubans on the base's
recreation fields - including its hardscrabble golf course - and a rifle range,
Sheehan said.

Picking up and housing the Haitians at Guantanamo has cost about $ 230 million
this year, Boxx said.

Because of the additional strain on base supplies from the new influx, the
Pentagon has decided to evacuate the roughly 3,000 nonmilitary people there.

Electric power is being diverted from base housing areas to support the refugee
camps, Sheehan said, and extra water purification equipment is being brought in.

"This is essentially a small city," Sheehan said.

At the White House, President Bill Clinton made it clear Thursday that U.S.
discussions with Cuba would be limited to immigration issues - not lifting the
economic sanctions.

"I think Mr. Castro knows the conditions for changing that policy. The people of
Cuba want democracy and free markets," Clinton said.

"That's always been our policy and that will continue to be our policy. I would
urge the American people to be firm and be calm about what is going on here
now."

In a speech Wednesday night, Castro said the only way to solve the refugee
crisis was for the United States to open talks.

In an interview with The Associated Press, Leon Panetta, the White House chief
of staff, said he was "feeling much better" about the government's ability to
handle the surge of Cubans trying to reach U.S. shores.

Asked whether Castro would have to leave power before the United States dropped
its longstanding economic sanctions, Panetta said, "If he is willing to move to
make the kind of reforms that are essential to move Cuba toward democracy, then
that would be an important signal to us."

LOAD-DATE: August 29, 1994

LANGUAGE: English

                  Copyright 1994 St. Louis Post-Dispatch, Inc.


                              305 of 308 DOCUMENTS

                       St. Louis Post-Dispatch (Missouri)

                   August 17, 1992, MONDAY, FIVE STAR Edition

AFGHANISTAN AID WORKERS EVACUATED FROM KABUL

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 6A

LENGTH: 940 words


U.N. aid agencies evacuated all but about half a dozen foreign employees from
Kabul, Afghanistan, where nearly two weeks of rocket attacks have left more than
1,000 people dead, sources said Sunday.  The United Nations thus became the
first foreign agency to withdraw its forces from the capital since the latest
wave of fighting broke out.  The U.N. High Commissioner for Refugees had
announced from its headquarters in Geneva Thursday that it was moving its staff
of about 16 from the capital to the northern city of Mazar-e-Sharif because of
the fighting.  Muslim rebels have been locked in a power struggle since they
took over in April.  AP PALESTINIANS Arafat Irked By Loan Guarantees PLO
Chairman Yasser Arafat on Sunday called U.S. loan guarantees to Israel
''dangerous,'' and said Palestinian participation in the next round of peace
talks was uncertain.  Arafat, speaking to reporte rs in Algiers after meeting
Algerian leader Ali Kafi, said that President George Bush made a mistake by
promising $10 billion in loan guarantees to Israel to build housing for Soviet
Jewish immigrants.  The Bush administration ''did this without receiving
anything in return concerning a halt to settlements, the status of Jerusalem and
(Palestinian) human rights denied every day in Israel,'' Arafat said. Bush's
pledge to Israeli Prime Minister Yitzhak Rabin last week followed a move by
Rabin's government to put a partial freeze on new settlements in the occupied
West Bank and Gaza Strip.  AP JORDAN King To Get Treatment In U.S.  King Hussein
of Jordan will travel to the United States for medical treatment for urinary
tract bleeding, the royal palace said Sunday. The announcement, carried by the
state-run Petra news agency, said the 56-year-old monarch would leave for the
United States today for treatment ''in one of the specialized and advanced
medical centers.'' It did not specify where.  The statement said Hussein's
health ''is good and stable.'' Hussein was hospitalized in Amman on Saturday.
His private physician, Samir Farraj, said ''minor bleeding persisted'' on Sunday
and the king was advised to go for more examinations ''in a specialized clinic,
which has the advanced techniques and equipment that we lack in Jordan.'' AP
GERMANY Anniversary Of Hess' Death Marked About 170 people were arrested in
weekend demonstrations on the fifth anniversary of the death of Nazi deputy
Rudolf Hess, police said Sunday.  Hess, 93, hanged himself at Spandau prison in
Berlin on Aug. 17, 1987. He was the last prominent Nazi prisoner in Germany and
had spent more than 40 years as the prison's only inmate.  As in past years, the
northern Bavarian cities of Bayreuth and Wunsiedel, Hess' hometown, banned
pro-Hess demonstrations by rightist groups. Police stopped vehicles leading into
the towns to block neo-Nazi skinheads and other extremists Saturday, arresting
about 75 people and confiscating weapons and Nazi emblems. No violence was
reported.  About 2,000 neo-Nazis also marched in the eastern city of
Rudolfstadt, shouting, ''Remember our dead.'' AP (THIS ARTICLE APPEARED IN THE
3* EDITION) LIBYA U.N. Seeks Lockerbie Case Solution A senior U.N. official
arrived in Tripoli Sunday to try to persuade Libya to comply with U.N. Security
Council demands and surrender two men accused of bombing Pan Am Flight 103 over
Lockerbie, Scotland, in 1988.  The Libyan news agency JANA quoted
Undersecretary-general Vladimir Petrovsky as expressing hope to find a ''quick
solution to the Lockerbie crisis.'' U.N. sources said Friday that Petrovsky
would deliver a personal letter from Secretary-General Boutros Boutros-Ghali to
Libyan leader Moammar Gadhafi.  Petrovsky, who heads one of the United Nations'
political affairs departments, previously visited Libya May 10 and April 8. A
predecessor, Vasily Safronchuk, paid visits to Tripoli in January and February.
The U.N. wants Libya to hand over the two men indicted in Scotland and the
United States for the 1988 bombing and to cooperate with an investigation into
the bombing of a French airliner over Niger in 1989. A total of 441 people
perished in the two bombings.  Reuters (END OF 3* EDITION) INDIA Sikh Rebels
Kill 8 More In Revenge Sikh rebels seeking to avenge the killing of one of their
leaders barged into the homes of four policemen in Punjab state and shot eight
people to death, police said Sunday.  The shootings on Saturday night brought to
64 the number of policemen or their relatives killed by the rebels in India
since Monday. Police last Sunday killed Sukhdev Singh Babbar, the most wanted
Sikh militant. The killings took place in the village of Jethunangal on the
outskirts of Amritsar, the Sikh holy city and the center of the rebels' campaign
for an independent homeland in Punjab.  AP NATION U.S.-MEXICAN BORDER $500
Million Fails to Stop Drugs The skies have been all too friendly to airborne
drug smugglers, despite about $500 million spent last year by federal agencies
trying to stop them, a newspaper reported Sunday.  The program did not result in
a single arrest or drug seizure along the nation's southwestern border, The
Houston Chronicle said.  The Customs Service and the Defense Department operate
a $2 billion radar and surveillance system designed to detect and apprehend air
smugglers, mostly along the U.S.-Mexican border.  A five-month Chronicle study
of federal drug cases filed along the border during 1991 found that the Customs
interdiction program played a negligible role in capturing air smugglers. The
cases were filed in five federal court districts located at 20 federal
courthouses from Brownsville to San Diego.  AP

LOAD-DATE: October 12, 1993

LANGUAGE: English

GRAPHIC: Photo; PHOTO...AP...Afghan volunteers loading wounded people onto a
wagon Saturday after a rocket attack on a suburb of Kabul.

                  Copyright 1992 St. Louis Post-Dispatch, Inc.


                              306 of 308 DOCUMENTS

                       St. Louis Post-Dispatch (Missouri)

                January 22, 1993, FRIDAY, FIVE STAR LIFT Edition

BAIRD WITHDRAWS NOMINATION FOR TOP JUSTICE POST

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 1A

LENGTH: 928 words

DATELINE: WASHINGTON


Zoe Baird, under fire for hiring illegal aliens to work in her home, has
withdrawn her name as President Bill Clinton's nominee for U.S. attorney
general, the White House said early today.

"With sadness, I have accepted her request that the nomination be withdrawn,"
Clinton said in a statement released by White House press secretary Dee Dee
Myers.

Baird, in a letter to Clinton, said "the continuing controversy" surrounding her
nomination would impede her ability to reinvigorate the Department of Justice.

Baird said she was "surprised at the extent of the public reaction" to the
controversy surrounding the hiring of two illegal aliens to help care for her
child.

"Your confidence in me to serve as the nation's attorney general is the highest
honor I can imagine," she told Clinton. "Thank you again for your confidence and
the opportunity you gave me."

Senate backing for the confirmation began to crumble Thursday as several
moderate Democrats, echoed by Republicans on and off the Senate Judiciary
Committee, called on her to withdraw.

Baird's confirmation got in trouble because she hired a Peruvian couple for
domestic services even though she knew they could not work legally in the United
States; furthermore, she did not pay their Social Security taxes.

As White House officials huddled late Thursday to debate the future of the
nomination, six Republican senators declared they would vote against Baird and
five Democrats demanded that she withdraw.

"I think it would be in the interest of the country if she would voluntarily
withdraw," said Sen. Bennett Johnston, D-La. "I am afraid she would be under too
much of a cloud if she were confirmed."

Sen. Richard Shelby, D-Ala., agreed, saying: "In accepting her as the country's
No. 1 law enforcement official, the Senate would, in effect, be sanctioning her
(unlawful) conduct."

At the White House, Clinton aides prepared the way for dropping Baird by
asserting that Clinton had not known the details of Baird's conduct when he
announced her nomination.

White House spokesman George Stephanopoulos said the details and timing of
Clinton's knowledge of the incident were "rather murky."

"I don't know the nature of his exact discussions on this. Zoe Baird .  . .  did
disclose this to the transition team," he said at a news conference.  But when
she met with Clinton, "I do not believe they had a discussion about it, no," he
said.

On Jan. 14, Clinton spokeswoman Dee Dee Myers had said: "It was fully disclosed.
He (Clinton) considered it and did not think it was a problem."

On Thursday, Baird herself rejected calls to withdraw.

In a long second day of questioning by the Senate Judiciary Committee, Baird
said:

"I think that my overall record gives me the potential to be a great attorney
general," she testified. "The potential that I have to serve this country . . .
should override the particular incident."

She was again apologetic for breaking the law in hiring undocumented foreigners.

"I've done something I deeply regret," she said. "I have paid the penalty.  I
made a mistake. I don't excuse myself."

Baird, 40, earned $ 500,000 last year as chief counsel for the Aetna Life &
Casualty Co. Her husband, Paul Gerwitz, is a professor at Yale Law School.

Since her nomination, she has paid $ 2,900 in fines to the Immigration and
Naturalization Service for hiring the couple in July 1990. She also paid roughly
$ 12,000 in back Social Security taxes and penalties that had not been paid
while the couple was employed.

The wife cared for Baird's son, and the husband served as Baird's driver and
performed household chores, she said.

The husband and wife were each paid $ 12,000 a year and received free room and
board, Baird said.

The husband quit in March 1992 when the couple separated, and the woman resigned
in November.

Republican members of the Judiciary Committee were skeptical of Baird.  Sen.
Larry Pressler, R-S.D., said he believed Baird's past action would diminish her
effectiveness as the nation's top legal officer, especially when it came to
enforcing immigration laws.

"I'm talking about your credibility," he said, adding that his opposition was
reluctant. "You're my kind of person. I feel very badly about this."

And Sen. Alan Simpson, R-Wyo., a senior committee member and the Senate's deputy
GOP leader, said that as an author of the nation's immigration's laws, he could
not support the nomination of someone who broke them.

In addition to Johnston and Shelby, Democrats announcing opposition were David
Boren of Oklahoma, John Breau of Louisiana and J. James Exon of Nebraska.

Boren said, "I believe that it would be best if she voluntarily withdrew. .  . .
It's important the new attorney general be a person beyond controversy." Boren
said his Oklahoma offices had received 1,000 calls on Baird, 80 percent opposed
to her confirmation.

Senate Republican Leader Bob Dole's office said they had logged 1,796 calls
against Baird and 7 in favor of her. Dole has not announced his position.

Republicans announcing against Baird were Sens. Christopher Bond of Missouri,
Larry Craig of Idaho, Slade Gorton of Washington and and Nancy Kassebaum of
Kansas.

Craig said his constituents "really do see a difference between personally
forgiving a lawbreaker who has paid her fines . . . and promoting that
lawbreaker to the 'top cop' in the nation."

Kassebaum said she had been pleased that a woman had been selected for the post
and had decided to oppose her with "deep regret."

LOAD-DATE: September 29, 1993

LANGUAGE: English

GRAPHIC: PHOTO; Color Photo by AP - Zoe Baird preparing to resume testimony
Thursday on her nomination as attorney general. She later withdrew.

                  Copyright 1993 St. Louis Post-Dispatch, Inc.


                              307 of 308 DOCUMENTS

                       St. Louis Post-Dispatch (Missouri)

                  January 22, 1993, FRIDAY, THREE STAR Edition

BAIRD REJECTS CALLS FOR HER TO WITHDRAW

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 1A

LENGTH: 862 words

DATELINE: WASHINGTON


Zoe Baird rejected calls to withdraw as attorney general-designate on Thursday
despite rising public and congressional opposition. President Bill Clinton's
administration offered her muted support after she admitted hiring illegal
aliens.

"Right now, Zoe Baird is his nominee," White House spokesman George
Stephanopoulos told reporters as Baird was questioned for a second day by the
Senate Judiciary Committee. He also said Clinton might never have discussed the
issue with his nominee before picking her.

Several senators announced their opposition to Baird's nomination, including two
Republicans on the Judiciary Committee, five moderate Democrats, and the lone
Republican among the Senate's six women.

A possible swing vote on the committee, Republican Arlen Specter of
Pennsylvania, said Baird's prospects for confirmation were "very much up in the
air."

Baird sought to put the issue behind her.

"I think that my overall record gives me the potential to be a great attorney
general," she testified. "The potential that I have to serve this country . . .
should override the particular incident."

She was again apologetic for breaking the law in hiring undocumented foreigners.

"I've done something I deeply regret," she said. "I have paid the penalty.  I
made a mistake. I don't excuse myself."

Baird, 40, earned $ 500,000 last year as chief counsel for the Aetna Life &
Casualty Co. Her husband, Paul Gerwitz, is a professor at Yale Law School.

Since her nomination, she has paid $ 2,900 in fines to the Immigration and
Naturalization Service for hiring the couple in July 1990. She also paid roughly
$ 12,000 in back Social Security taxes and penalties that had not been paid
while the couple was employed.

The wife cared for Baird's son, and the husband served as Baird's driver and
performed household chores, she said.

The husband and wife were each paid $ 12,000 a year and received free room and
board, Baird said.

The husband quit in March 1992 when the couple separated, and the woman resigned
in November.

Questions about Baird's nomination dominated the first White House news briefing
by Stephanopoulos, who said Thursday that the president was sticking with his
nominee.

"The president continues to think she'd make a good attorney general," he said.
"Right now, Zoe Baird is his nominee."

Quizzed about Clinton's knowledge of the incident before he nominated her,
Stephanopoulos said the details and timing were "rather murky."

"I don't know the nature of his exact discussions on this. Zoe Baird .  . .  did
disclose this to the transition team," he said. But when she met with Clinton,
"I do not believe they had a discussion about it, no," he said.

On Jan. 14, Clinton spokeswoman Dee Dee Myers said: "It was fully disclosed. He
(Clinton) considered it and did not think it was a problem."

Sen. Larry Pressler, R-S.D., a member of the Judiciary Committee, said he
believed Baird's past action would diminish her effectiveness as the nation's
top legal officer, especially when it came to enforcing immigration laws.

"I'm talking about your credibility," he said, adding that his opposition was
reluctant. "You're my kind of person. I feel very badly about this."

And Sen. Alan Simpson, R-Wyo., a senior committee member and the Senate's deputy
GOP leader, said that as an author of the nation's immigration's laws, he could
not support the nomination of someone who broke them.

The Democrats announcing opposition were: David Boren of Oklahoma, Richard
Shelby of Alabama, Bennett Johnston and John Breau of Louisiana and J.  James
Exon of Nebraska.

Boren said, "I believe that it would be best if she voluntarily withdrew. .  . .
It's important the new attorney general be a person beyond controversy."
Speaking in a telephone interview, Boren said his Oklahoma offices had received
1,000 calls on Baird, 80 percent opposed to her confirmation.

Senate Republican Leader Bob Dole's office said they had logged 1,796 calls
against Baird and 7 in favor of her. Dole has not announced his position.

Sens. Larry Craig, R-Idaho; Christopher Bond, R-Mo.; Slade Gorton, R-Wash., and
Nancy Kassebaum, R-Kan., who are not on the committee, also announced they would
vote against Baird. They and other senators said that calls and mail from
constituents were running heavily against the nominee.

Craig said his constituents "really do see a difference between personally
forgiving a lawbreaker who has paid her fines . . . and promoting that
lawbreaker to the 'top cop' in the nation."

Kassebaum said she had been pleased that a woman had been selected for the post
and had decided to oppose her with "deep regret."

Kassebaum said she would vote against Baird because "she knowingly violated the
laws of an agency (the Immigration and Naturalization Service) she would oversee
as attorney general."

No vote on Baird's nomination has been scheduled yet by the Judiciary Committee.
Committee Chairman Joseph Biden, D-Del., said the vote probably would not take
place before Wednesday or Thursday.

Biden said Gewirtz, Baird's husband, would testify before the panel today.

LOAD-DATE: September 29, 1993

LANGUAGE: English

GRAPHIC: PHOTO; Color Photo by AP - Zoe Baird preparing to resume testimony
Thursday on Capitol Hill at the confirmation hearing on her nomination as
attorney general.

                  Copyright 1993 St. Louis Post-Dispatch, Inc.


                              308 of 308 DOCUMENTS

                       St. Louis Post-Dispatch (Missouri)

                  February 7, 1993, SUNDAY, FIVE STAR Edition

ALIEN 2: THE KIMBA WOOD STORY

SECTION: EDITORIAL; Pg. 2B

LENGTH: 470 words


On a day that the headlines should have been about the first legislative triumph
of his administration, the family leave bill, President Bill Clinton once again
had to be subjected to second-guessing about his personnel-selection process.
U.S. District Judge Kimba Wood was widely reported (courtesy of orchestrated
White House leaks) to be the president's choice for attorney general. But she
suddenly withdrew from consideration, because of what is now called the "Zoe
Baird" problem of hiring an illegal alien as household help. The incident is
hardly fatal, but it contributes further to an impression that the Clinton team
is far less skilled than voters had hoped.

Late Friday, Judge Wood said that in 1986, she had hired as her baby sitter an
alien whose visa had expired. At that time such action was legal, and Judge Wood
said she had paid all required taxes. But, she said, in the sensitive political
climate that arose when Ms. Baird revealed hiring illegal aliens, contrary to
the law of that time, and not paying taxes on them, she no longer wanted to be
considered a candidate to head the Justice Department.

No one can deny that once those facts had become public in her confirmation
hearings, they would have caused trouble for Judge Wood and the president,
though they should not have been reason to derail her nomination. Nor should the
silly story that surfaced in The New York Times that in 1966, Ms. Wood trained
for five days as a Playboy bunny in London, thinking she might earn earn money
to get through school. Any male candidate who had ever visited a Playboy Club
would have equal reason to be embarrassed. But the White House reportedly felt
that the Playboy connection would give material to late-night comedians and
would undermine the seriousness of the attorney general's position.

Why is the Clinton nomination process working so poorly? Judge Wood reportedly
was asked directly about a "Zoe Baird" problem and denied having one. Then the
White House planted her name with several news organizations as the president's
likely choice, only to have the candidacy blow up in its face.  Kimba Wood's
candidacy was not killed by a Zoe Baird problem; it was killed by a Bill Clinton
problem. Surely qualified prospective attorneys general are out there who can
pass the crucial tests of having talent and integrity and making the president's
Cabinet as diverse as the nation; surely a better screening process can be
devised, one that doesn't depend on a Jay Leno factor to succeed.

Once an attorney general is in place, "Alien 2: The Kimba Wood Story" will be a
mere footnote. But the longer the president takes, the bigger the doubts about
his competence will grow. He must hope that in filling the top spot at the
Justice Department, the third time will be the charm.

LOAD-DATE: September 29, 1993

LANGUAGE: English

TYPE: EDITORIAL

                  Copyright 1993 St. Louis Post-Dispatch, Inc.
